 

Meanwhile, the three brothers continued their journey descalabraduras
scratching their struggle.

One afternoon the poor woman screams Batiste appealed to God and to the saints see the progress
as they reached their young.

That day the battle had been hard. Ah, the bandits! The two seniors were bruised; was always
the same: there was no need to ignore.

But the little one, the Bishop, as we affectionately his mother called him, was wet from head to foot,
and cried, trembling with fear and cold.

The fierce vagabonds had thrown in a ditch of stagnant water, and
then gouged covered with silt siblings nauseating.

       Teresa laid him in his bed when he saw the poor fellow was trembling
in his arms, holding his neck and murmuring voice like a bleat:

-
Mare!

Mare!

...

The mother resumed her lamentations.

"Lord! Give us patience! "All that mob, young and old, had proposed
ending with the family.

* * * * *

VII

Sad and frowning, as if to a funeral, Batiste began the road to Valencia on a Thursday morning.
It was market day for animals in the river, and carried on the belt,
as a thick lump, the burlap bag with the rest of their savings.

Rained misery on the block. All that was missing its roof that would collapse over them, crushing them
all .... What people! Where have you been! ...

The little boy getting worse, shivering with fever in the arms of
his mother, who cried to all hours, and visited twice a day by the
doctor.

In short, a disease that was going to cost you twelve or fifteen hard, as they say nothing!

The eldest, Batistet, could hardly go beyond their fields. He still had his head wrapped in rags and
face cross-spanked, after the huge battle that morning said on the road with others their age who
would like him to pick up manure in Valencia. All fematers contour against Batistet had joined,
and the poor boy could not look the road.

The two small and did not go to school for fear of fights that should support the return.

And Rosetta, poor girl! was the one that was more sad.

The father, gloomy and severe glimpses gesture reminded him mutely
to be indifferent, because their sentences were an attack on parental
authority.

But alone, he lamented good Batiste the sadness of the poor girl. He had also been young and
knew how heavy are the pains of love.

Everything had been discovered. After the famous fight in the fountain of the Queen, the whole
garden spent several days talking about the Rosetta love with the nephew of old Tomba.

The butcher of Alboraya snorted courage against his servant. Ah, great rascal! Now understood
why he forgot his homework, which lost the afternoon wandering around the garden like a gypsy.
The master was allowed to have a girlfriend, like a man capable of
maintaining it.

And what bride Good God! One had only to listen to the customers when they chatted at his
desk. All said the same thing: they were surprised that a man like him, religious, honest and without
other defects to steal something in the weight allowed to accompany his servant to the daughter
of the enemy of garden, an evil man, which he had allegedly been in prison.

And this, in respect of the standard big-bellied, was a disgrace to their establishment, listening
to the murmurings of the gossips again enraged, threatening with the knife the timid servant,
or rebuked the Tomba to correct the rascal of his grandson.

Total: the butcher dismissed the boy and his grandfather find work in Valencia home of another
sharp, praying that no grant him freedom or even on holidays, to
no more waiting on the road to the daughter of Batiste.

Tonet went submissive, with moist eyes, as one of the sheep that had so often hauled up the knife
from his master. Never return to the garden. In the hut was the poor girl hiding in her bedroom
to moan, making efforts not to show pain to the mother, who, irritated by so many setbacks, appeared
intractable, and before the father, who spoke of it to pieces if she was to have a boyfriend
and talk to it the enemies of the contour.

The poor Batiste, so harsh and threatening, so it hurt for all misfortune was the distress
of the poor girl, poor appetite, yellow, haggard, making efforts for being indifferent, barely
sleeping, which did not stop every morning march time at the factory, with a vagueness in telling
pupils that his thinking rolled away, I was dreaming inside at all hours.

Were they any more evil? ... Yes, there were still others. At the cabin, nor beast got rid of
the poisonous atmosphere of hatred that seemed to float on its roof. At that not trampling certainly
made him the evil eye, and so his poor Morrut, the old horse an animal that was like family,
which had dragged down by poor roads and trousseau boys in the pilgrimages of misery, he would
dribble out in the barn Again, the best accommodation during their long working life.

Behaved like honest person in the worst time when newly established family in the hut, had to plow damn
petrified by ten years of neglect, when there to make continuous trips to Valencia in search of the
rubble of demolition and old wood; when the grass was not much and
the work overwhelming.

And now that front window of the block lay a great field of fresh
grass, straight, wavy, all for him now had the table set with that
green and juicy tablecloth smelled of glory now fattened, their legs
are tapered and rounded his back knotted, died suddenly, without knowing
why, perhaps using their perfect right to rest after taking the family
afloat.

He lay on the straw one day, refusing to leave, staring with glazed eyes Bastida and yellowish did
expire on the lips of love vows and threats of indignation. It looked like a poor person Morrut;
Batiste, recalling his eyes, was often wishes to mourn. The barracks suffered a concussion, and
that unfortunately made the family to forget Pascualet poor momentarily, trembling with fever
in bed.

Batiste's wife cried.

Gentle animal that extending his nose had been coming into the world Almost all children. Still remember
it like it was yesterday, when I bought in the market Sagunto, small, dirty, full of scabs and
gore, like a smack of waste. Was a family member was leaving.

And when some nasty guys came in a car for take your horse to the "Caldera" [16], which become
the skeleton of polished bone brilliance and fertilizing compost meats, kids crying, screaming
from the door endless goodbye to poor Morrut, going away with stiff legs and head swaying, while
the mother, as if I had a horrible feeling, is cast with open arms on the sick child.

[16] place where they cremated the dead animals to use their bones.

Recalled to their children when they were introduced in the block to pull the tail Morrut the sweet
passivity which endured with all the boys games. I saw the little boy when his father put him
on the hard spine of the animal, hitting the shiny little feet flanks and screaming "arre! Arre!
"With childish babble. With the death of this poor beast Teresa thought she was going to be
left open a gap in the family where they would others.

Lord that deceive their mother painful forebodings, that was just the animal suffered which was,
that is not carried on their backs to the poor little one way to heaven, as at other times he wore
in the paths of the garden clinging to his mane, slowly, not to tear it down!

And poor Batiste, thinking occupied by so many misfortunes, shuffling
in his imagination sick children, the dead horse, son and daughter
Descalabrado his concentrated sorrow arrived at the outskirts of the
city and spent the Serranos bridge.

At the end of the bridge, on a plain between two gardens, opposite the octagonal towers hovering
over the trees its pointed arches, its corbels and crown their battlements, Batiste stopped,
running his hands over his face. I had to go to the masters, children Don Salvador, and ask
to borrow a piquillo to complete the amount it would cost the purchase
of a hack that would replace the Morrut.

And since the toilet is the luxury of the poor, sat on a stone bench, waiting his turn came to
clean the beards of two weeks, sharp and tough as barbed, which blackened his face.

In the shade of tall bananas worked the orchard people hairdressers, barbers to "face the sun."
A pair of armchairs with seat and arms esparto polished by using
a stove in the pot of boiling water, towels and a razor dubious dull
color, that scraped the hard skin of the parishioners with spooky
rails, were all fortune of these outdoor facilities.

Surly boys who aspired to be young men in barbershops in the city were there their weapons first,
and while inferring tame or village heads cut da trasquilones and peeling, the master was talking
to the customers sitting on the bench of the ride, or read a newspaper
aloud to the audience, which, with the chin on both hands, listening
impassive.

Those who sat in the chair of the torments pasábanles a piece of soap stone cheeks, and rub
that rubs until rising foam.

Then came the cruel navajeo, cuts, that stood firmly on the client's face stained with blood.
A little more sounded beyond the big scissors in constant motion, passing and reviewing on the round
presumed head of a strapping young man, who was shorn as a black
poodle and the height of style: long matted hair on the front and
back half a head of closely cropped.

Batiste was shaved quite lucky, as I listened, sunk in the Esparto chair and with closed eyes,
reading the 'teacher', made with nasal, monotonous voice, their commentaries and glosses man skilled
in public affairs. No more than three scratches removed and a cut on his ear. Other times he
had been more. Gave his half-real, and got into the city Serranos by the door.

Two hours later he came out again, and sat on the stone bench, from
the group of parishioners, to hear again the teacher while the market
was time.

The owners had just paying the piquillo he needed to buy the horse. Now important was to have
a good eye to choose from, the serenity to not be fooled by the cunning gypsies passing before him with
their cattle, then a ramp down into the riverbed.

Eleven. The market should be the most animated. Batiste came to the confused noise a hotbed invisible
climbed the neighing and voices from the bottom of the channel. Doubted stood still, as you
want to delay the moment of an important resolution, and finally decided to descend to the market.

The
bed of the Turia was, as always, almost dry. Some streaks of water, breaks the dams and reservoirs
that cool the meadow, meandering curved or islands in a dusty floor, burning, uneven, which looked
more like African desert riverbed.

At such times he was all white with the sun, without the slightest taint of shadow.

The cars of the peasants, with their clear awnings, formed a camp in the center of channel, and
along the banks of stone set in a row, were the animals at the sale: coceadoras black mules, with
bright red shells and legs agitated by nervous restlessness; Dobbins,
strong but sad, like serfs condemned to eternal fatigue, looking glassy
eyes to all that passed, as if they guessed the new tyrant, and small
and vivacious ponies, injuring the dust with their hooves, pulling
the tether that kept them tied the wall.

Next to the down ramp were the culled animals: donkeys, no ears, dirty hair and disgusting pustules
sad horses, whose skin seemed to pierced with angled the stark skeleton,
mules short-sighted, with neck stork all the misery of the market,
the castaways of work, which, with leather lined up sticks, stomach
contracted and excoriation Swollen bellied flies green and awaited
the arrival of the contractor's bullfighting or the beggar, who would
know still use them.

Beside streams in the middle of the channel and the banks that had moisture covered with a tiny
layer of grass, herds of horses trotted untamed, open air, luenga mane, tail dragging on the
ground.

Beyond the bridges, through its arches stone, could be seen herds of bulls, with the legs
drawn up, quietly ruminating grass threw them pastors, or walking
lazily through the parched ground, feeling the nostalgia of fresh
pastures, standing fiercely every time the youngsters are whistle
from the parapets.

The animation market is growing.

Around each horse was adjusting the sale formed gesticulating and chattering groups of peasants
in shirtsleeves, with a stick ash in the right hand. Roma, dry, tan, long and curved rails, sheepskin
with patches and hair cap, beneath which his eyes shone with a glow
of fever, spoke constantly, throwing his breath in his face as if
to Buyer hypnotize.

- But you look well in the pony.

Fix in your lines ... If it looks like a lady!

And the farmer, insensible to the mellows Roma, self-enclosed, pensive and uncertain, looked down,
looked upon the beast, he scratched his neck, and just saying to power stubborn:

- Well, they do not donate month [17].

[17] - Well, it does not give anymore.

To make workplaces and solemnize the sales we wanted the protection of a sunshade, under a big woman
who sold pastries adorned by flies or glasses filled with sticky
content of half a dozen bottles on a table lined with zinc.

Batiste went and reviewed several times between the brutes, without regard to vendors beset him guessing
his intentions.

Nothing like it. Alas, poor Morrut! How difficult was finding a successor! Not to be beset by necessity,
had left without buying, believed to offend the deceased be turning those unfriendly beasts.

At
last he stopped before a white steed, not too fat nor shiny, with some scratches on the legs and
an air of fatigue, a workhorse that despite its appearance of overwhelming, seemed to be strong
and courageous.

Just ran a hand through the legs of the horse, he appeared alongside a gypsy, obsequious campechanote,
treating him as if he knew all his life.

- An animal with pearls, it is good that you know the beasts .... And cheap: I think reñiremos
not .... Monote!

Get him out for a walk, to see how gracefully Mr. breaststroke.

And the aforementioned Monote, a gypsy bare-bottomed air breaks and shorts scabby face, grabbed
the horse by the halter and ran out the ups and downs of sand followed
by the poor beast, who trotted dismissive, as so tired of an operation
sometimes repeatedly.

He ran the curious people gathered around Batiste and the Gypsy, who
remained with their eyes the progress of the animal.

Guando Monote returned with the horse, the farmer examined it carefully.

He put his fingers through the yellow teeth, ran his hands through the legs, lifted their helmets
to inspect, carefully recorded it between his legs.

- Look here,
look you - read the Roma - who for that is .... Cleaner than the whistle.

This does not fool anyone: all natural. No animals are arranged, as do others, that disfigure
a donkey in a heartbeat.

I bought it last week and neither did I care fix the little things
that have legs.

You saw how I struggle salt.

And pull a car? ... Or an elephant has its thrust. There in the neck you see the signs.

Batiste examination did not seem unhappy, but made efforts to be upset, using of pouting and coughs.
Their road woes as he had made known to the beasts, and inwardly laughed some curious, influenced
by the poor appearance of the horse, arguing with the gypsy, saying it was only good for sending
to the "Caldera".

His sad-looking and was tired of working animals that comply with resignation as can be sustained.

Came
the decisive moment.

He would stay with him .... How much?

- As for you, a friend - said the Gypsy patting on the back - for being for you, nice person to know
well to treat this piece ... we'll leave in forty and give you a
deal.

Batiste calmly endured the shooting, a man accustomed to such discussions, and smiled sarcastically:

-
Well, after being you, rebajaré little. Want ventisinco?

The gypsy extended his arms with theatrical indignation, retreated
a few steps, scratched hair or cap made all sorts of grotesque extremes
to express their astonishment.

- Mother of God!

Twenty hard! ... But have you look at the animal?

Or steal it could lead to such price.

But Batiste replied to all her complaints always the same:

- Ventisinco ... not a penny more.

And the gypsy, hastily his reasons, which were not few, appealed to the supreme argument:

- Monote ... out the animal ... the Lord look good.

And there was Monote again, jogging and pulling the tether before the poor horse, every time
Most boring for many walks.

- What a wag!

Huh? - Said the Gypsy -. If it looks like a marquise in a dance! And that goes for you twenty-five
duros? ...

- Not a penny more - repeated stubborn.

- Monote ... returns. There are already enough.

And feigning outrage, turned back to the buyer gypsy as if she gave as a failure any settlement,
stop to see that Batiste was truly gone seriousness.

- Come on, sir ... What is grace? ... "Batiste? Ah! Well, look you, Mr. Baptist for you see
I love him and wish that this jewel is yours, I'm going to do what would not do for anyone.
Should thirty-five dollars? We say yes.

He swears by his Sallu would not do this or for my stop.

This time was even more alive and grinning their protest to see that the farmer does not soften with
the rebate and he barely gave him two dollars more.

- But as a dislike of pearl inspired that fine? Do Nah, you do not have eyes to appreciate it?
Let's see, Monote: to remove it again.

But that did not take Monote of his lungs again, then walked away
pretending Batiste had given up such a purchase.

He wandered through the market, looking away other animals, but always
watching from the corner an eye to the gypsy, who, feigning indifference
also followed him, watching him.

He went to a big horse hair strong
and shiny, not thinking about buying, guessing his high price. Just
ran his hand through the legs, he felt with his ears burning breath
and a murmur

- Thirty-three .... Salu by their children, do not say
no, you see that I put in right.

- Twenty-eight - Batiste said without
turning.

When he got tired of admiring this beautiful beast went
on, and doing something witnessed how an old peasant haggled a donkey.

The
gypsy had come to stand beside his horse and watched him from afar,
shaking rope halter as if he called. Batiste approached slowly, simulating
distraction looking at the bridges, through which they passed as moving
colored domes of open umbrellas of women in the city.

It was noon.
Scorched sand bed, the air confined between the parapets, not moved
with the slightest gust. In this warm and sticky, the sun, falling
flat punctured the skin and lips burned.

The gypsy walked a few steps
toward Batiste, offering the end of the rope as a Inauguration:

-
Neither you nor me. Thirty, and God knows nothing gained .... Thirty,
do not tell me no, because I'm dying of rabies. We ... shock you.

Batiste
grabbed the rope and reached out to the seller, who energetically
pressed. Treatment closed.

The farmer was taking from his belt all
that indigestion savings that swelled the womb a ticket which he had
borrowed the master, a few pieces of hard to, a handful of silver
Petite wrapped in a paper cone, and when the count was complete could
not escape go with the gypsy the shadow created for guests to a cup
and give a few cents to monotheism for his trot.

- It brings you
the jewel of the market. Today is good day to you, Senor Baptist has
santiguao right hand, and went to see Our Lady.

Still had to drink
a second cup, a gift from the Gypsy, and finally, cutting short his
stream of offerings and flattery, took the halter of his new horse,
and with the help of agile Monote, mounted on the bare back, leaving
them short step from the noisy market.

Animal was satisfied: he had
not lost the day. Barely remember the poor Morrut, and felt the pride
of ownership when the bridge and on the way they turned some from
the farm to examine the white nag.

His greatest satisfaction was
when passing the house to take the Cup made a trotting nag presumptuous,
as if it were a horse breed, and saw him go after peered Pimento at
the door and all district lazy-eyed amazement. Les Miserables! And
would convinced that it was difficult to sink his teeth, he knew to
defend himself. Could well view: new horse. I wish it was happening
inside the cabin could be fixed so easily!

Their wheat, tall and
green, formed as a lake of restless waves by the wayside, the alfalfa
showed himself fresh, with a perfume that did dilate the nostrils
of the horse. Could not complaining about their land, but within the
cabin was where we were afraid to misfortune, eternal companion of
his life, waiting to hammer nails into it.

When he heard the trot
of the horse, went Batistet with his head covered with rags, to seize
the halter while his father dismounted