 But this know how to handle, and when he was with those blues,
he was not coming. One night came Centeno happier than usual, and without Fear was running
to where the master was to give the following part:

"The doctor says that the girl is out of danger ... that has not been
anything, and that today commanded to lift.

"

- Well - the master said dryly. And a moment later:

- Felipillo ... hey ... You can go to the theater this afternoon, which is Sunday. I do not
need ... Hey, hear. If the driver is on the order, do not tell other day to withdraw ... but
let me know.

Monologue.

"I have it stuck in my heart and I can not get started. Damn spine, how to caress buried, and
uprooted much it hurts! I've looked, unsociable man, bullet you only see in the darkness of barbarism
and civilization clarity and charm you do not know where you're going. The apple that I picked
it seemed good. I open and damaged. I'm more angry when I think that the party still has to be
healthy for another ... Because I concluded to her and she for me. His behavior was so bad
that I can not forgive ... I go, running away from her and this shadow of mine, this fake
and false that I wanted to adapt the vicious culture around here ... Marriage gives me nausea.
I hate as hate the tank in which we have been on the verge of falling ... I run this land and
this atmosphere, but I will not leave without seeing with my own
eyes the rotten apple and look well those healthy pieces that someone
else has to bite, not me, wretched and miserable, not being able to
walk in these thin soils, is always late ... And if the social decorum
prohibits me to see, I say to the Company that all of it and I care
cuddles four whistles, and I plant them in the middle of the street,
if necessary, yelling: 'Viva immorality, anarchy alive, live the nonsense!

"."

It was the seventh day, according to Philip, when the master arranged to go to France in express
train in the afternoon.

From early on he was accompanied by his cousins, and dedicated her Rosalia to be useful, looking
for occasions to show their activity. That day was very showy and probably had thrown the
rest in the work of his presumption.

"Beware, Augustine - say between sentimental and cheerful - we write,
at least once week.

Look we can not live without knowing of you often. We were inconsolable. I I will answer all your
letters, because Bringas is busy and can not do it ... And We will
not entertain much there, you come prontito.

Do not leave us much time in this sadness ... Fifteen days have enough rest. "

In about one warned the car and left without saying Augustine where
he was going.

In the preceding quarter the office, and Centeno Ido communicated their views on events.

IDO .--=( With the pen between the teeth, while drawing lines on paper
with pencil and ruler.) = Thank God we see the master happy.

You know what he said? I have so far not to do more to put in all the letters that come the signs
of Bordeaux.

RYE .--=( cupping his hand to reach the ear of D. José words spoken secret.) = I know where love
has gone. I came when he got into the car, and said the driver: Beat,
4.

IDO .--=( with surprise.) = Going to leave it ... Here in confidence,
Felipe, I think the master not looking for his decency to take this
step.

Because, frankly, son, of course, the honor ...

RYE .-- The doctor has said you're out of danger ...

IDO .-- Slowly ... Tia, who attends on behalf of the Lord, (and I suppose we must assistance
to pay well) Tia says ...

RYE .--=( Impatient.) = What?

IDO .-- Let me make these lines of ink ... Well said ... Before I
tell you what I think.

RYE .-- What have you thought?

IDO .-- I
trust him ... quietly. Well I think the lady is left with no Amparo
that a solution to regenerate ... What is it? Here's communicate ...
with the greatest reserve. Grande has been the lack ... as atonement,
boy, atonement ...

RYE .-- While away at once ...

IDO .--=( With
presumptuous sufficiency.) = In short, it remained to be sister of
Charity ... This, upon being poetic, is a means of regeneration ...
I do not say anything ... heal the sick and wounded in hospitals and
camps ... Walk from work ...! Imagine whether it will play with those
beautiful white ...

RYE .--=( bewildered.) = It is yummy.

IDO .--
Je je ... Sister of Charity. It has no other way