 Seeming
lack of light coming through the transom of a large window, opened leaves decayed wood, devoid
of glass. Then he raised the hangings of red damask gold braid covering a broad tent the majestic
bed in they were born, begotten and killed several generations of Febrer.

The night before, to withdraw from the Casino, had charged James with great insistence that I
woke early. I was invited to lunch at Valldemossa. "Arriba!" The morning was of the best spring
in the garden of the house screaming the chorus of birds on flowering branches, swaying in
the breeze that sent the nearby sea over the wall.

The maid was on his way to the kitchen, seeing that Mr. was decided at last to lie outside of the
bed. Jaime Febrer went almost naked through the room, before the open window, starting by a thin
column. There was no fear of being seen. The house across the street was a palace old as yours,
a big house a few holes. Outside his window lay a Wall undefined color, with deep peeling and
remains of old paintings, but so close by the narrowness of the street,
which seemed to be touched by hand.

He had stayed late, restless and nervous about the importance of the act to be undertaken the
next morning, and numbness of a short sleep and made him look ineffective avidly the comforting
caress of cold water. When washed in a basin student narrow poor, Febrer made a gesture of
sorrow. "Ah, misery !...» He lacked the most rudimentary amenities that a luxury manor house
and ancient than modern rich could not improvise.

Poverty arose before its passage, with all its discomfort, in these halls that were reminiscent
of the splendid scenery of certain theaters seen in his travels through Europe.

As if a stranger entered the first time in his bedroom, Febrer admired this piece, grand and
high ceiling. His powerful grandparents had built for giants. Each room of the palace was as large
as a modern home. The windows had no glass, like the other holes in the building, and in winter
we had to keep all the leaves closed, no light coming through the studs, covered with cracked
glass and opaque with age. Lack of carpets laid bare stone pavement Mallorca soft sandstone,
cut into thin rectangles, as if it were wood. Roofs still wore the old splendor of the woodwork,
some obscure, of contrived couplings, others with a matte gold that brought out the venerable colored
barracks weapons of the house. The towering walls, whitewashed simply disappear into pieces
under rows of antique paintings and other behind the rich hangings of bright colors that time
could not extinguish. The bedroom was decorated with eight large tapestries of tone dry leaf green,
representing gardens, broad avenues of autumn trees, with a square terminal where the deer bounded
about dripping solitary or triple bowls sources. Top hung door old Italian paintings of a soft
caramel: children meat Amber played with kinky lambs. The arch dividing the real bedroom rest
of the room was something triumphant, with fluted columns supporting half point cut foliage,
all in a pale gold and discreet, as if it were an altar. On a eighteenth-century table stood
a polychrome image of St. George on his horse trampling on Moors; and beyond the bed, the bed
imposing, venerable monument of the family. Some chairs old, of bowed arms, with red velvet
and worn bald to show the whiteness of the plot, mingled with wicker chairs, and poor bathroom.
"Ah, misery!", Think again the estate. The old house of Febrer, with its beautiful windows devoid
of glass its rooms filled with tapestries and no carpets, furniture confused with the more venerable
shabby furniture, it seemed like a spoiled prince flaunting brilliant robe and crown still glorious,
but barefoot and linen.

He was equal to the palace, stunning, empty shell that had once saved the glory and richness
of their grandparents. Some had been merchants, other soldiers, and all sailors.

Febrer weapons were flown in streamers and flags on more than fifty ships of topsail - the best
of Mallorca Marine - which, after taking orders in Puerto Pi, were to sell oil on the island
in Alexandria, shipped spices, silks and perfumes of the Orient on the scales of Asia Minor,
traded with Venice, Pisa and Genoa, or from the Columns Hercules, sumíanse in the mists of the
North Sea to carry Flanders and the Republics Hanseatic the pottery of the Moors in Valencia, called
by foreigners majolica, because of Majorcan origin.

This continuous navigation through pirate-infested seas had made the family wealthy merchants
of a tribe of brave soldiers. Febrer had fought the alliances or adjusted with Turkish pirates, Greeks,
and Algeria, had escorted their fleets by the North Sea to deal with the English pirates, and
even once, at the entrance of the Bosphorus, their galleys had been addressed to Genoa, which monopolized
trade of Byzantium. Then, this dynasty soldiers of the sea, to withdraw from commercial shipping,
he paid tribute blood the safety of the Christian kingdoms and the Catholic faith by joining
a portion of their children in the holy militia of the Knights of Malta.

The second children's home Febrer, while receiving the water of baptism, had their diapers sewn white
cross of eight points, symbol of the eight Beatitudes, and to be men captained warlike galleys
of the Order and ended his days as a wealthy commanders Malta, recounting their deeds to the children
of her nieces and care for ailments and injuries becoming by infidel slaves living with them, despite
the vow of chastity. Famous monarchs, passing through Mallorca, had left the palace of the
Almudaina to visit Febrer in his palace. Some had been admirals of the fleet of the king,
others distant rulers territories, some sleeping the eternal sleep in the cathedral of La Valette
with other illustrious Mallorca, and Jaime had seen their graves in a visit to Malta.

La Lonja de Palma, elegant Gothic building nearby the sea, had been for centuries a fief of their
ancestors. For Febrer was all thrown away in the galley dock high castle, the cogs of heavy hull,
light whips, the Saetia, Panfilo Rampino, Tafur and other models of the time, and in the vast hall
of columns of the Market, along Solomonic the shafts that were lost in the shadows of the vaults,
grandparents received sailors as kings of the East, who arrived with wide breeches and scarlet
cap, Genoese employers and Provence, with his cape topped by monkish cowl, to brave captains of
the island, covered with the red beret Catalan. Merchants Venice sent their friends Mallorca
petite ebony furniture inlaid with ivory and lapis lazuli or blue moon large mirrors and lens
frame. Sailors back Africa brought bunches of ostrich feathers, ivory tusks, and these treasures
and other going to decorate the rooms of the house, fragrant essences mysterious gift of correspondents
Asian.

The Febrer had been for centuries the middlemen between East and West,
making Mallorca a tank of exotic products, which then spilled his
ships in Spain, France and the Netherlands.

The fabulously rich flocked to the house. In some instances, Febrer even made loans to kings
... But this could not stop James, the last of the family, after losing in the Casino last night,
everything he owned - a hundred pesetas - had accepted money to go to the morning after Valldemosa
Toni Clapp, the smuggler, tough guy, understanding awake, and the most loyal and disinterested
friends.

While combing, Jaime contemplated in an antique mirror, cracked and hazy moon. Thirty and six
years could not complain about their appearance.

It was ugly, with an ugliness 'great' to quote a woman who had exerted some influence on his life.

This
ugliness had given him some satisfaction loving. Miss Mary Gordon, blonde idealistic daughter of an
English governor of an island in Oceania, traveling in Europe no
other accompaniment than a domestic, she had met one summer at a hotel
Munich, and she was that impressed, took the first steps.

Spanish was, according to the miss, a vivid portrait of young Wagner. And Febrer, smiling at
the fond memory drives, watching its bulging forehead, which seemed to push with his grief
compelling eyes, small and ironic, shaded by thick eyebrows. The nose was high and aquiline
nose of all Febrer birds of prey brave the wilds of the sea and steeped disdainful mouth, the chin
Outgoing and covered by soft vegetation, sparse and thin beard and mustache. "Ah, delicious Miss
Mary! "Nearly a year had gone on pilgrimage in Europe cheerful. She madly in love with him for his
resemblance to the teacher, wanted to marry, and spoke of the millions the governor, mixing
romantic enthusiasms to hobbies practices of their race. But eventually Febrer flee before
the British let him turn for some conductor that is closer to their idol.

"Oh, women !...» And Jaime stood tough male body, slightly stooped back by excessive height.
He had long since given up interest in them. A light gray in the beard and a slight puckering
of the skin at the corners of the eyes revealed fatigue of an existence that had gone, as he
said, "at full speed."

But even so, I sought, and it was love that was going to get their plight.

At the end of the arrangement of his person, left the room. Crossed a vast hall lit by the sun's rays
passing through the uprights of three windows closed. The ground was in the shadows, while
the walls glowed like a garden of colorful, endless tapestries covered
with natural-size figures.

Mythological scenes were and biblical; ladies arrogant, swollen flesh pink, appearing before
warriors red or green, huge colonnades, palaces with garlands of flowers, scimitars raised,
heads on the floor, big-bellied horse herds with a leg up: a world of old legends, but with
fresh ink despite the centuries, and between bands of apples and litter.

Febrer eyes looked ironic passing this wealth inherited from their ancestors. Nothing was yours.
For more than a year these rugs and bedroom and all the home belonged Palma certain usurers,
who had left hanging in the same place. Awaited arrival of a rich amateur, who would pay more
splendor to imagine them acquired directly from the owner.

Jaime was just a receiver, threatened with jail if of infidelity in their custody.

Upon arrival at the center of the room took a little detour, driven by custom, but began to
laugh seeing that there was nothing to interrupt its passage. A month earlier there was still
a precious Italian marble table that had brought the famous Commander Don Priam Febrer one of
his expeditions in corso.

Beyond there was nothing ever made him stumble. A huge brazier embossed silver, mounted on
a platform of the same metal, with a circular row the elves who held this monument had become
Febrer money, selling weight. And the brazier reminded him a golden chain, the Emperor Charles
V to a of their ancestors, who years earlier had sold in Madrid, also the weight, with the addition
two ounces of gold received by the artistic work and seniority. Reached after vaguely to him the
news that the chain was sold in Paris by a hundred thousand francs. "Ah, misery!" The knights
could no longer live in these times.

His views met with enormous brightness vargueños mounted Venetian labor antique tables supported
by lions. They seemed made for giants, with countless deep drawers, whose outer surface had
polychrome enamel depicting scenes mythological.

There were four magnificent museum pieces: a reminder of the ancient magnificence of the house.
Nor were his. Had suffered the same fate as the carpets, and there were waiting for a buyer.
Febrer was no longer the custodian of your own home. And also belonged creditors the Italian
and Spanish paintings that adorned the walls of two cabinets immediate, antique furniture with
silk shaved or broken, but beautiful carvings, all in short, which retained some value in the
wreckage of the secular legacy.

Went to the reception room, vast room in the center of the building, cold and high roof, communicating
with the staircase. The white walls over the years had taken a tone
yellow ivory.

Was necessary to throw his head back to meet with the black eye coffered ceiling. Open windows
helped along the ledge below the windows to illuminate this immense and austere living. Furniture,
few and convent: large armchairs arms, seats and backs of cowhide decorated nails twisted oak
tables legs, dark boxes, with rusty hinges on funds moth-eaten green cloth. Whiteness yellowing
of the walls was visible only as a lattice lines between rows of paintings, many of them unframed.

There
were hundreds of pictures, bad and interesting all at once; paintings commissioned to perpetuate
the glories of the family, made by old Italian and Spanish artists step in Mallorca. Traditional
charm of these paintings seemed to emanate. Mediterranean history was written by clumsy and
naive brushes: meetings of galleys, assaults of fortresses, big battles
Naval enveloped in smoke, on which tufts floating streamers of vessels
and aft towers, atop which rizábanse the flags with the cross of Malta
or the crescent. The men fought on the decks of ships or floating
skiffs with them, the sea red with blood and flames of the boats,
was tinged with hundreds of heads of shipwrecks, which in turn fought
the waves.

A mass of helmets and slouch hat clashed on two ships clinging, with another white and red turbans,
and they alzábanse Claymore and spears, scimitars and axes of approach. The firing of cannons and
trebuchets cut with red tongues smoke of battle. In other paintings could be seen no less dark castle
flame throwing their pockets, and at the foot of these warriors with the white cross of eight
points on the shell, nearly as big as towers, and applying them to increase their scale the
assault.

The tables had white sign on the side with the same auction folded shield weapons, and in them, written
in faulty case, the story of the event: meetings victorious with galleys of the Grand Turk or pirates
Pisa, Genoa and Vizcaya; wars in Sardinia Spark and assaults Tedeliz and in all these companies was
a Febrer which led to combatants and became noted for his heroism, towering above all the commander
Don Priam devilish hero, mocking and some religious, who had been the glory and shame of the
house.

Alternating with these scenes were warlike family portraits.

In the most high, playing to a row of old paintings of evangelists and martyrs, which formed
a frieze Febrer showed themselves the most ancient, venerable merchants painted several centuries Mallorca
after his death, serious men of Jewish nose and sharp eyes, with jewels on the chest and top
hats oriental appearance. Then came the men of arms, sailors sword, with close-cropped hair
and the profile of a bird of prey, all wearing armor of black steel and some with the white cross
of Malta. Portrait in the portrait, the faces were refined without
losing the bulging forehead and nose pressing family.

Neck shirt, wide, floppy and gross tissue, was elevated by the meandering starched the curly
ruff, the shell became a doublet of velvet or silk, tough beards and wide, in the style of Emperor,
trocábanse in acute steep knobs and whiskers, the Frame serving soft locks.

Among the rough men of war and elegant gentlemen stood out black habits certain church with mustaches
and chins, boasting high bonnets tassel. Some were Malta ecclesiastical dignitaries, judging
by the white badge that adorned his chest; others, venerable inquisitors Mallorca, according
to legend, praised his zeal towards faith. After all these gentlemen black, imposing and hard
eyes gesture came the parade white wig, childish face for shaving, with bright gold silk jackets
adorned bands and decorations. Perpetual rulers were the city of Palma, whose Marquis Marquis
had lost the family with double junctions, going to melt titles with others of the nobility
of the Peninsula, governors, captains-general and viceroys of countries
American and Oceanian whose names awaken a vision of great wealth;
enthusiasts botiflers supporters of Philip V, who had to flee from
Mallorca, rearward support Habsburg, and occupied as a supreme title
of nobility nickname given by sausages hostile mob.

Closing the glorious parade, almost flush with the furniture, were the last Febrer early nineteenth
century, officials of the Navy, short pin curls on the front, high collar with anchors of gold
and black tie, who had fought at Cape St. Vincent and Trafalgar; and behind them the great-grandfather
of Jaime, an old man with hard eyes and mouth disdainfully, that on returning Fernando VII from captivity
in France had embarked to bow at his feet Valencia, asking with other great lords that restored
the ancient customs and exterminate the rising scourge of liberalism. He was a prolific patriarch,
who had lavished their blood in several districts of the island in pursuit of the peasant, without
losing any of its gravity, And giving to kiss the hand of some of the legitimate children living
at home and had his surname, said in a solemn voice: "God make you a good inquisitor!"

These portraits of the illustrious Febrer some women could be seen.

Ladies were swollen farthingales that filled the entire canvas, the same as the ladies painted by
Velázquez. A his bust emerging fragile velvet bell flowered skirts, with pointed face pale and
colorless in the loop and short curly melenillas was notable female family, who had called the 'Greca'
for his wisdom in letters Hellenic. His uncle, Febrer Espiridión fray, prior of Santo Domingo,
great luminary of the time, had been his teacher, and 'Greca' could write in their language
correspondents East that still maintained Mallorca with a dull trade.

Jaime was with his views beyond some paintings - depicting the step distance a century - another
famous female portrait of the family. It was a white girl peluquíta, dressed woman, with pleated
skirt and big recessed the ladies of the eighteenth century.

She was standing at a table beside a vase of flowers, and held the lifeless right hand a rose like
a tomato, with little eyes looking at her wrist porcelanescos. In this the had called "the
America." The mounting of the portrait spoke in the stilted style of the time its discretion and science,
ending with mourn his death at age eleven. Females were suckers dry as vigorous trunk of Febrer,
fighters and lush. Wisdom soon withered in this family of sailors and warriors, such as plant
stems by mistake in an adverse climate.

Concerned about his thoughts of the previous night and the next trip
to Valldemossa, Jaime stopped in the hall staring at the portraits
of his ancestors.

What glory ... and how much dust! Twenty years ago perhaps a merciful cloth had not been traced
along the illustrious family to tidy up a bit. Grandparents most remote and battles famous were
covered with cobwebs. And to think that the lenders had not wanted to acquire This museum of glory,
with the pretext that they were bad paintings! Unable to pass these Certain memories eager
to create a rich illustrious origin! ...

Jaime went through the reception, entering the rooms of the opposite wing. Pieces were lower ceiling,
had a second floor above, occupied at one time by the grandfather of Febrer; relatively modern
rooms with old furniture in the Empire style and the walls bright prints of the Romantic period representing
the misadventures of Atala, loves Matilda and achievements of Hernán
Cortés.

Bellied comfortable could be seen on polychrome saints and ivory crucifixes, among dusty artificial
flowers under cloches. A panoply crossbows, arrows and knives resembled a Febrer, lieutenant
commander of the king, who made a trip around the world in the late eighteenth century. Purple
shells, sea shells huge with depths of pearl, adorned the tables.

Following a runner on his way to the kitchen, put down the chapel, which was closed many years,
and another file gate, vast room whose windows overlooked the garden
and where Jaime had gone, back from his travels, many afternoons,
stirring saved bundles after the dilapidated trellis wire shelves.

Went to the kitchen, huge dependence which were prepared at one time the famous banquets of
the Febrer, surrounded by parasites and generous to all the friends who came to the island.