 "It was just that? Would spend
a long time before they were against them. Furthermore, the vessel passed far away ... Returned
to the den to continue their game of poker, or were on the cover the usual cliques, lying on
the couch talking, until the pitch of sleepiness I was getting hesitant on the way the cabin, to
continue the nap.

Ojeda and his companion, leaning on the railing, looking forward to
the silhouettes of the islands pointed out as clouds on the horizon
of serene blue.

- So much for Columbus - said Fernando -.

The admiral, who had always sailed westward, put on the third trip the bow to the South, seeking to
discover new lands for the part of Austro. But beyond these islands was afraid, and turned
the direction to follow the usual route. He astonished the heats of Ecuador believed that on to the
south would eventually burn their ships. Perhaps influenced his visionary credulity of legends
surrounding the then poor geography of the equator.

Recalled after incidents of its third discovery. The sun's rays were so intense, the Admiral, as
contained in his letters, he feared that vessels catch fire and people. Fell on the squadron
frequent squalls, but these showers of sticky warmth only served to make the heat tolerable for
a few hours. Columbus welcomed them as a relief Providence, believing that without them all
would have perished. Was ill, was disturbed by the disappearance from the skyline of the stars
that guided the navigators in the seas the northern hemisphere, and the emergence of other stars
that each voyage ignored were soaring in the sky.

Reborn in its report the views of the time about the equator and what was behind her, doctrines
learned in their vagrancy by convents and ports, talking with scientists and sailors.

For many in the hemisphere of the south was the earthly paradise. Ecuador, with its heat irresistible,
was "the gladiolus or igneous versatile knife" that had God among men and Paradise so that none
of the sons of Adam could return to it. The poets of antiquity and the Fathers of the Church they remembered
wonderful to fantasize about this part of the world completely ignored. Beyond Ecuador was the
land called "Mesa del Sol" by the sweetness of its climate and the generous abundance of their
products. Happy people lived in it that by not having to worry about the necessities of life
- for Nature, prodigal, I offered all with excess - dedicábanse the study of natural causes,
and especially of astrology. Arim, the 'city of philosophers, "was the center of the" Mesa del
Sol. "

In this part of the land, being the most noble, had to be forcibly Paradise. The stars strongly
influenced our lives. Everything was on the floor, not under its own goodness, but by "the
noble and happy influences of the stars are on him, "the universal cause of life. "A noble
sky corresponded noble land" and as the constellations of the hemisphere was ignored, as the science
of the time, "the largest, brightest, most noble and perfect, and therefore of greater virtue,
happiness and effective as of Aquilon ', hence under the glow should be necessarily the best
of the land, or Paradise.

The head is the noblest part of 'all things natural and artificial, the most decorated and better
workmanship, from which the influence of other members of the body. " And where was the head
of the earth? ... In the Austro ignored in the South, as does the tree that while his head is hidden
below, could not extend the branches, fruit and birds if the head ceases to send its nourishment
and strength. And the fire, the source of life, was born in the Austro be engendered in him,
and a fire barrier that stretched circumferentially in Ecuador prevented
the passage from one hemisphere to another.

The discoverer, alarmed by the unbearable heat that met him, saw in
them indisputable confirmation of the views of the learned men of
his time, and again the bow to the west, not daring to go further
in the Austro feared.

A big surprise awaited him. The world was round, like Ptolemy and others had believed. Could be
spherical in the northern hemisphere, where the wise men had only their studies, but this one
sailed hemisphere whose limits he had the "shape of a pear, it is round except where it is the
nipple, which is higher, or a ball with a woman's breast placed on
top, "and the end of this nipple was" part of the world's propinquity
to heaven.

"

Ships, continuing to the west, but it seemed plain sailing in an ocean and well, rose and rose, following
the back up of the extrusion of the planet. The Admiral recognized this increase in the fresh
air, become increasingly sensitive as advanced the West, although the ships follow the same
extent, and especially in the particular offered land and people. As the discoverer had moved closer
to the line igneous Ecuador, the sun was stronger, more land was burned and the inhabitants were
more black. In Cape Verde and Sierra Leone people came to the most extreme blackness and the
land seemed burned. And yet, to put forward the West, following the same latitude, cooling the
air, and the admiral was on the coast of Venezuela Island the Trinity, "temperance softest - in
his writings - with very green land and trees and beautiful, as in the gardens of Valencia
in April, and the people very nice height and almost white, more
cunning and more ingenuity than blacks, and not cowards.

"

All this was because the land and people were higher up, closer to the good regions of the air, on
the slopes of that gigantic nipple alter the roundness of the hemisphere austral. And the hypothesis
of Paradise, head of land, located in the Austro noble, became a certainty for the Admiral.
At the apex of the nipple was the former site of delight; and the
Orinoco, which sweetened the sea, amazing surfers with its huge sheet
was one of the four rivers descending from Paradise.

Fernando and his friend, who talked about these fantasies of Admiral
walking along the deck, stopped at the windows of the great hall.

The faint voice of the piano, played on muted attracted the curiosity of Isidro.

- Look, Fernando. German, wife of conductor, which exploits no people in the room. Near it is
your child ... What's playing? "Wagner? ... No, that I know, is Schubert: The king of the poplars.
See how the mouth moves.

Sing, but not hear well ... No, do not approach: we are going to scare the other day ... Well, you
go you well, good luck.

This last was said to see Ojeda, suddenly, as if due to a previous decision was separated from
him. Disappeared by the port door leading into the classrooms. Maltrana I saw pass between the
tables in the winter garden, occupied by a few passengers dormitantes. Then he entered the room
and sat near the piano, next to the little boy stubborn, which provided the prints of a large
volume of older person in thought, lulled by the music of his mother. That, noting the presence of
a man who listened eyes fixed on her, made a gesture of surprise
and disappointment, you winced, as if to leave the piano, but with
sudden resolution remained in his seat.

A slight blush greenish pallor of old bust.

- What Ojeda! - Isidro muttered looking glasses -. We will see what is to stop all this music.

He
felt no strength to continue walking along the deck. The heat had spread to people. All enjoyed
the freshness of the siesta, scantily clad, inside their cabins or
hurricanes found in the smoking room fan.

The ship pitched lazily, with long intervals of quiet, on the broad undulations a sea of ??dense,
sunset, red as molten metal.

Not a breath stirred the the canvas cover, stretched from the rails to the roof as a rigid wall,
dark and burning.

Maltrana dropped into one of the many chairs that bore the label "Doctor Zurita and family,
"and there was in pleasant slumber, not knowing for sure whether he was asleep or awake. He could
hear the piano sound far, far away, like a tune of Lilliputians.

"Now is Wagner - thought -; I know why: Parsifal, "The Charm of Good Friday ... Now is Schubert,
the "Quintet of the Trout ". funny thing ... Now ... now ..."

And he could not recognize anything more, because left hear the music.

Sinking, sinking into a black hole, accompanied by the soft melody,
which was thinner the same as a thread ever tighter, until break and
be swallowed by silence.

Suddenly came to life when he felt a hand on his shoulder. He opened his eyes and saw the doctor
Zurita standing before him with a cigar in his mouth smiling.

- Get up, friend and take a leaf. Today has not been you by the tribute.

He offered his case filled with endless Havana cigars. It was three
o'clock.

The doctor had his short nap sleep routine, and being alone, wanted to chat with Isidro. It stood
up to light the cigarette, and his eyes looked through the windows
of the room.

Had muted the piano, but the German was still on the bench, stirring the leaves sheet music and
listening to Fernando, who, leaning on the top of the instrument, the talking closely. The
friendship was made with the music, you do not need a mediator complacent presentations.

The doctor wanted to walk, and followed Maltrana puffing cigar brave the perfume.

The proximity of the equator seemed to cheer Zurita.

Were close to their hemisphere, were to enter it within two days.

- It is, as they say, go home, my friend. I am very American and I have a mad desire to see my heaven.
Many nights in Europe privé me looking at him, he could not find in it the Southern Cross! ... And
tomorrow maybe contemplate. My girls do not understand these the old things.

I felt impatience to get to their land, seeing friends, learn about
the progress of business, tread the streets of Buenos Aires.

European capitals were worthy of admiration, But Buenos Aires! ...

- Soon we will arrive, God help us - continued merrily -. There will
be shown, Galician nice, what you are worth and what is inside.

Let's see if someday become multimillionaire and I can proudly tell me who made her first trip ...
But you have to work, you know, che? ... Nothing to believe that there is silver with just stooping
to take it. You lie a lot. People go there with a head full of exaggerations. In addition,
silver is not in a month or in a year: you must have the time, which
is worth the work, we must devote a company, whether it is, the greater
part of life.

They had come full circle to ride, and the doctor stopped near the
living room windows.

Again, the piano sounded. Isidro saw his friend standing next to the artist, his eyes fixed
back of his head bent, waiting for an indication of his head to return the score sheets.

- See, Maltranita.

The important thing in our land is to buy something, owning something, owning, and then the country,
which is always going forward, is responsible for enriching one,
provided that be patient and calm.

Why do you think we are a people apart from others and come to merge with our people around the
world? ...

The doctor did this question with an expression of good-natured mischief in his eyes and mouth.
Maltrana hastened to repeat all the platitudes he'd heard about the land of Argentina. The
virgin soil fertility, lack of laborers, the credit facility for working ...

- I have thought long and hard, my friend, the things of my country, and I think his power attraction
is that it is not arithmetic.

Is it whole you ... Rather said, that their arithmetic is different from that used in other towns.
In Europe and elsewhere, two plus two equals four times.

Is not that ...? As in Argentina has ever been.

He was silent, as if he enjoyed the amazement of Maltrana, then continued, with a doctoral smile:

-
In colonial times, when the old Spain, we had as children in school, and even much later, at
the time of our revolt, two and two were never four. There was no one sumase, who put an the two
numbers on each other. We dressed with home textile; we killed the animals to take only the hide
and fat, leaving the meat to owls, we cultivated the land for housing needs nothing more ...
Then came the heyday of the export and immigration, and two two also were four. Was valued
everything in a mad two and two were eight, two and two make twelve, and perhaps rises out of
bed, and no more work to have been sleeping is waking that two and two make twenty ... Which country,
my friend!

Maltrana heard him raising his eyebrows with sincere amazement, as if the doctor paradox deliver
him the great secret of the country where he went.

Understood, the important thing was to have two addends, for they
were simple: two and two.

The country was responsible after doing the addition in accordance with its wonderful arithmetic.

-
But the arithmetic is sometimes their failures - the doctor continued, accentuating her smile -.
The old world, shy and routine, is unshakable. Two plus two always equals four, no more or
less. There, on our land every ten years trembles all, but no guesses
to discover why the cataclysm.

Years of drought and crop failures ... Sometimes, even this.

Wars taking place across the globe, in countries we do not know or
care a bean, credit crunch, lack of money, banks to which they "run"
as they say there, and that its doors are full of people withdrawing
their deposits, homeowners who want to selling and who is not, foreign
capitalists who do not want to mortgage ... and then two and two make
one ... two plus two equals nothing ... and is not expected to hold
for arithmetic regain its former originality, is busted for the whole
harvest.

Maltrana doctor paradox continued with an objection. Day
would come that two and two were four in that country forever, when
their fields were divided into small fractions, the deserts were occupied
by a dense population, which increased the water until sed land now
cracked with huge rivers like the arms of the sea.

- It is - said
doctor -. Two and two will be four in Argentina sometime ... Undoubtedly,
in centuries. But then - he said sadly - no one will go to it, for
to meet with the same native arithmetic, with the news that two plus
two make only four no man feel like leaving your home.

VII

- Yes,
says you well