 

No doubt the first thought Obdulia, she said with some vividness:

-
Yes, sir, I've done in the arm is burning ...

And at the same time
lifted the sleeve of the dress and laid bare an ugly and painful wound
I had in the forearm.

The priest went on as a poppy, and turning his head quickly, he replied
tartly looking at the tables of the confessional:

- Well, well ...
Let you ... It seems excessive, indeed ... Henceforth refrain from
do such penance without first talking to your confessor.

III

At eight o'clock in the evening after having dinner with D. Miguel
and have seen him retire to bed in the sweet company of flintlock
pistols, P. Gil left the rectory to toward the house of his protector
Ms Eloisa Montesinos.

Rarely went to the gathering that it met at night. Neither was happy about it, nor the severe
regime of the priest's house I consented. But her protector had complained of neglect, until
he thought he was cooler with it. Fearful of being branded as ungrateful and really sorry, because
he professed tender and respectful affection for the kind lady, resolviose to go more often,
making and submit to the pastor.

The strong shower water hit his face as he set foot outside the door. Opened the umbrella,
but a few steps, the wind was blowing gale in the Field of Fainting
it again.

Unable to close it and feeling violently pushed by the hurricane, the young excuses refuge
in black, huge portal of Montesinos. Never went past it without feeling a shiver of fear and curiosity.
Lived in that gloomy palace a mysterious man who had vaguely thousand strange stories, to whom were
attributed outrageous ideas and phrases in addition to religion and its ministers. The young cleric
just knew him. D. Alvaro Montesinos had spent most of his life in Madrid. For two or three years
only he had come to settle on rocks. He lived in an almost total withdrawal, occasional walking
rarely by the sea, all alone. The remaining days I spent locked up at home, it was said, reading
or writing articles wicked. The Peñascosa clergy spoke of him with contempt spiteful, which
had come to participate Fr Gil, without knowing.

Arranged his umbrella as best he could, and as the impetus the wind had calmed down instantly
went out of the portal, but not one look of fear and hostility to the huge black door the fund, on top
of which sadly burned an oil lamp behind a window gated.

He left the field of fainting and, once in Quadrant Street (which thus called the single largest and
most populated of rocks), and the wind was not blowing so hard and was able to take advantage
umbrella and get home of Ms. Eloisa, located in the square without seriously wet. The D. purple Martín
de las Casas was also old, but remarkably renovated more girl than her brother, with all facilities
and supplies required by the needs Modern: tiles portal gate, well carved poplar staircase with banisters
of patent, elegant rooms with friezes and papers, all very neat and Painted.

- Good eyes see you, father! How expensive is sold! - Ms. Eloisa said that since her protected had
received holy orders not tuteaba.

At the same time he rose and kissed his hand with real affection. So did Mrs. Rita Obdulia, who had
recently was assiduous gathering of the house, and Mrs. Marcelina
Serafina Barrado, despite the sidelong glance he directed his chaplain
D. Joaquín.

Ms Marciala and Mrs. Filomena became the distracted talking to D. Peregrin Casanova, and saluted
the order from his seat, smiling rosy.

While greetings lasted, D. Narciso, who was leaning back to the piano, no his eyes off his
companion, eyes where they read aversion and suspicion.

Without the P. Gil is the cause or even give good account of it, there was lively rivalry between
him and D. Narciso, who had started more than half of the daughters of confession. Well God
knew he had done nothing to get it, before, on the contrary, it weighed heavily each Once
one of them came to his confessional. But what he had to do? Nothing but confess, it was his obligation.
Insist that do not vary much as a confessor was granted too much importance to the issue of person:
he was not in the spirit of the sacrament. But the chaplain was not penetrated Sarrió the intention
of his partner, and whether was not much altered her feelings. Thus compatible with the result,
and it was sad him. Before the arrival of Gil field it can be said that only among the fair sex
of Peñascosa and ruled their consciences. Other chaplains did not shadow. It was the golden
boy of the pious. None of their jokes, their steps and gestures go unnoticed: the devout who had
the good fortune to hear or witness them, were responsible for distributing it quickly among her
friends. A damning evidence every moment of lively sympathy and veneration awakening in the village:
chasubles gifts of embroidery by fingers gorgeous body, the clerical collar of satin, etc.,
etc., offering even more positive, hams, bottles of sherry cakes and chocolate. D. Narciso was
admirably covered their spiritual needs and temporary. He was a shepherd, tending his sheep
happily, leading them gently the path of virtue to paradise and shearing from time to time the
rich fleece to not entangled in a thicket.

The appearance of your new companion came to breaking on the Arcadia delicious mystique. Sheep
sudden rush of insane excitement, began to jump and prance as if listen the happy sound of a pipe.
Neither Peter nor the blandishments managed to retain a most of them.

He was painting his flock, and he had had the strength to govern a herd that large, faint now to
be alone, sensing the hostility with which I watched some of their old and beloved sheep. For
not only no longer reached home the rich gifts overseas and nationals of other times, but
with deep felt pain that was beginning to discutírsele. It was said among the pious ladies,
and this came his ears, that if it was true that word was easier for the young toilets, most
of the time "there was no substance in what he said," and he preceded him much weight, natural
reason and instruction. There were times when throwing one of his jokes spicy, linked as always
with feces, barely produced laughter among listeners, and knew that one of them after he left,
he had been rude and poorly qualified educated. Of the body because there was no talking, well
it never reached could compete with the delicate and graceful figure of his opponent. In summary,
D. Narciso felt undermined the foundation and feared every moment to come to the floor. No wonder,
then, that the look and the greeting that welcomed the young priest were less affectionate
than be expected. Not remember little or much the kind reception that San Juan Bautista, master
held dear, and God made the young disciple who was soon eclipsed.

- Do not fights, women. Do you know, by chance, if it's easy to go out at night, with fear
that D. Miguel has to thieves? - Shouted D. Martín de las Casas from the triplet table where
he played with two others, a priest and a layman.

- No, sir, not that - "the cleric said, blushing under the eyes of the entire gathering.

- Did not have D. Miguel fear of robbers? - Asked smugly sharp focus
the Mr. de las Casas.

- Yes it is - the young man replied, smiling
sweetly, sitting at the same time next her godmother .-- Their reasons
will be.

The rich are those who fear. The poor, like me, are alone.

- But what will the priest as much money as they say? - Ms Marciala
asked curiously.

- I can not tell you, lady ... I presume so, because
it addresses a lot to his estate.

Their costs are small, and instead of increasing each day is restricted. Where to go long and
leaves little choice but to not have done plenty.

- The rights parish should produce a lot, right? - Asked even more
curious the wife of the apothecary of the square.

- You understand
that in a parish as large as it should not be short.

- But D. Miguel
forgive many of them - said the lady, with a slight turning comic
in his voice.

- It's possible, ma'am.

For my part, I have not seen - answered with perfect simplicity the toilet.

D. Narciso D. Joaquin, the chaplain of Madame de Barrado, exchanged
a meaningful glance.

The chaplain was a thin young man with roses in her cheeks, a sign
of a temper sickly, living and insolent eyes, thin nose, small mouth,
a hypocritical fold and malicious.

It had been a Dona Serafina testicles stuck at home to run errands and serve at the table, soon
after being widowed.

Noting the readiness and fond of him once transferred his residence
to Lancia, gave career, sending the seminar.

In the hours left him free lessons, Joaquín continued to play his
trade as a servant.

Then he took orders made him his manager, today was his feet and hands. Do not hit the streets
but in his company, was her spiritual director and counselor time. Curious spectacle indeed the
sudden transformation of a domestic master of his own love. It was you you always called him
D. Joachim and, publicly at least, he lavished a thousand samples respect, also forcing the
servants to tax.

Ms Eloisa reiterated, asking gentle accents:

- So what is the reason for his withdrawal, rogue?

- Madam, I understand that Mr Miguel does not like much to go out
at night, but the main This is because most of the days I am tired
... As I get up at four in the morning!

... Sometimes need a little prayer ...

- You work too, father - said Marcelina, a young unmarried girl who, in the words of the people,
already was nearing forty, ugly, leathery, very skillful hands and not a little also language
.-- So many hours of confessional! ... And then the sick!

...

- Not counting the hours he spends on his knees in prayer ...-- Obdulia
said shyly.

After to drop the phrase blushed.

D. Narciso thrust a unique look, ironic and aggressive, that she could not see, because it put
an effort into not looking face to face with his former confessor.

Fr Gil made an impatient, annoyed by those accolades, and to divert the conversation of his person,
he faced one of those who played the triplet.

- Mr Director, I have seen today from the rectory with the rod out
a very fat fish.

For Admittedly, I thought a mullet, and D. Miguel a robaliza. We played a little.

- The priest has a better view than you. A robaliza era - said the
gentleman seriously questioned, without looking up the charts.

This D. Romualdo Director was an old man with a mustache and short
white whiskers, sallow color, the brow furrowed with deep wrinkles,
large eyes, severe eyelid drooping.

No never smiled.

Constantly spoke with an accent in a bad mood, as a man disenchanted with everything.

- The Mullets do not fall into the spring, Don Gil of the green tights - uttered the lord of Houses
with his usual rudeness, if not rude.

I used to call it, jokingly, to his former protected.

- Yes down just, D. Martin of the White House - he uttered a dull voice director.

The pundits laughed, which piqued somewhat D. Martin, Male, as we know, prone irritated.

- I thought so, Minister of mischief - sarcastically replied, looking
intently at his face, and putting on the table at the same time a
king of hearts.

- So you thought very wrong - the old man replied,
his eyes always on the cards .-- Also did you think that king of hearts
would happen triumphant, y. .. you see, the bug!

- That'll make you
it is a rude and bad habits acquired back in Manchester.

Here the insurance Norberto father had not done.

- No, no! I am unable ...-- the priest said, choking with laughter,
coughing up .-- No burst Peñascosa I left ... What I do is shrink
and take that point of gold from my partner.

He put forward a four.

- Hooray for the cure! - Roared D. Martin, throwing the horse and picking the trick.

- Dude, I thought D. Martin did not have the horse - sighed D. Norberto, addressing Councillor eyes
in anguish.

- What did you think it is a babieca and has been all his life - he
said with affected naturally which shone through anger.

- But the
man of God !...-- said the cleric, ready to give explanations.

Counselor interrupted with angry gesture, firmly placing the cards face down on the table.

-
Man of the devil! I say ... How do you think of running a point not being covered? ...

Armos a violent dispute that lasted a few moments. The Advisor and P. Norberto no dragged on too
long, because he, a man of good pasta, phlegmatic, he concluded to remain silent shrugging
his shoulders with resignation and while shaking his head in silent protest. Those that were on
forever with D. Advisor Martin, both of which more irascible and stubborn.

D. Martín de las Casas, retired lieutenant colonel, who had made the war in Cuba, where had received
a wound in the shoulder that prevented him from continuing in service, is believed the case for
his profession, take it all for the tremendous. Since 1873 when it became the body of Invalids
did not come out of rocks. At that time had forty two years. His wife was glad that forced retirement,
but deplored that came to within family with a cotton shoulder. Regarded as a virtue exalted,
unique to the military same energy in the field of battle that drinking coffee in the casino.
Their disputes, their bluffs in the recreation center were proverbial in Peñascosa and slapping
it used distributed at the end of them too. Since the arrival of the tremendous Lt. Col. any neighbor
for serious and respectable as it was, was safe. Many nobles and wealthy landowners of the
village which until then had been kept immaculate his cheeks, never dreamed that anyone could threatening
to them, were sealed and initialed the most neglected when the fingers
were the fierce invalid.

This was due to a slow reflux among his friends and acquaintances, which warmly received on his
return from service. The movement spawned no heat here but cold. Gradually leaving him alone,
judging their dangerous society. Was needed to mingle with little people a little more or
less and clergy, by their sacred character of his hands were free
expedited, or so it seemed at least.

In the casino He looked almost always surrounded two houses escribientillos
trade, a music teacher a construction foreman and three or four individuals
of the same size.

They listened as a oracle, and if ever in the heat of improvisation soplamocos they eventually
leave, cursing a little dignity and returned at once to the good.

Counsel was an exception. Genius that he was worse. In D. Martin had a lot of affected and professional:
that this was pure and native. But his advanced age, physical weakness and he put his ailments
to cover any brutal assault by his friend. This used to conclude the dispute with a violent
gesture of contempt. Ever came to say:

- D. Romualdo, if you were thirty years younger, he slammed into the wall.

D. Romualdo lived alone. A son who was employed in Manchester had been dead for four years. Enjoyed
a small income, sufficient to meet their needs short and had no other occupation angling or
other recreation that play ombre. Life Chief among the left for hooks and cards. The entire
morning was spent sitting on its folding chair in the dock, or on the rocks behind the church,
with a hat panama if it was sunny or an umbrella if it rained. In the afternoon, sitting at the
casino until the four that took the pole again. At night, sitting in the house of D. Martín
it and the P. Norberto.

He was a clergyman whom he could take forty years of age, but spent a lot of fifty, thick, plump,
red, admirable teeth, and protruding round eyes, wide nose, without a gray hair in the hair
or a wrinkle on his face. He spoke little and laughed a lot. Everything was funny: he lived
in perpetual spasm of joy and admiration. Held any dullness of friends as the steely joke, to
be forced to hold the belly Shaken by the flow of laughter.

And they laughed in good faith, without a hint of hypocrisy and flattery which, of course, flattered
the pride of those who were at his side.

For this reason perhaps Fr Norberto enjoyed broad sympathy in the town and it was not their
evil cyst peers. Knew him only three passions, tripe stew, the triplet and another that talk
later. When a house, which he frequented, had corns for lunch or dinner, whether they knew it
was heading the guests.

It served two or three dishes filled, unbuttoned, his forehead began to smoke and had to leave
after one hour rest on the bed, if not, was in danger of exploding like a bomb. Counselor used
to say that tripe-eating every day and played worse when sitting.

And never let go of the sentence without that good cleric writhe and suffocate with laughter.
The jokes were never old to him.

The ladies quickly away their attention from the triplets so they
started to play.

Every night there was a lot of fights like this.

- And you, D. Narciso, has not been either yesterday or the day before. What has become of you?
"Reza also at night? - said Ms Marciala, which made knitting table near the seating area; occasionally
raised his hands toward the lamp of the players, to make a point he had escaped.

- No, ma'am, I'm not much rezador. I have not the virtue of prayer.
Instead, I abstain of certain services, such as the murmur of my superiors
and colleagues - the chaplain uttered insolent accents, staring at
the ceiling involvement.

The reference went straight to the toilet,
who had spoken of the greed of the priest. So understood it, and if
I had not clearly understood, manifest it in the eyes of bystanders.
Faced with brutal aggression that ignited her face like an ember.
Laughter D. Malignant Joachim and D. Melchor concluded to disturb
him.

- Female, not bad that! Jo! Jo! I like that! Jo! Jo! Is that
OK abstention. Lots to do! You have wit, D. Narciso. Much ingenuity!
Jo! Jo! Jo!

Fr Melchor was laughing mouth full of an insolent and
rude manner, looking alternately the young Excuses D. Narciso. The
chaplain of Ms Serafina also laughed a little laugh acute, lowercase,
which appeared to quell her handkerchief to his nose. The ladies remained
serious and upset by understanding the intent poison Sarrió chaplain.
Only Ms Marciala smiling in front of him applauding