 

The foregoing considerations show the need to have fixed ideas and opinions formed on core subjects,
and when this is not possible, how much it matters to abstain to improvise, leaving it to sudden
inspirations. It has been said that the big thoughts born of the heart, and could have added, to the
heart are born too large errors. If the experiment fails to do so palpable, the reason would suffice
to prove it. The heart does not think or judge, but that does not feel, but the sentiment is a
powerful lever that moves the soul and deployed and multiplies their faculties. When understanding
is the path of truth and good, noble and pure feelings to help give strength and brio, but the
feelings ignoble, or depraved, but may lose the right understanding. Even feelings good, if the stress
is too much, they can lead to errors deplorable.

§ XII.

Duties of oratory, poetry, and fine arts.

Born here very serious considerations about the proper use of oratory, and in general all the arts
that come to the understanding or through the heart, or at least worth of him as a powerful auxiliary.
Painting, sculpture, music, poetry, literature in all its parts, are very severe duties, which all too
often forgotten. The truth and virtue, here are the two objects to which should be addressed:
the truth for understanding virtue to the heart, behold what you
have to provide the man through the impressions to captivate you.

In deviating from this white, limited to the simple production of pleasure, are sterile for the
good and fertile for evil.

The artist intends only to flatter the passions, corrupting morals, is a man that abuses and
neglects his talents sublime mission entrusted by the Creator, to endow privileged powers that ensure
the ascendancy over their fellows, the speaker using the trappings of diction, and its ability
to stir the emotions and enchant fantasy, seeks to adopt erroneous opinions, is a true no less
guilty impostor that he employs means, perhaps most disgusting, but much less dangerous. It
is not lawful when it is unlawful to persuade convince, when the conviction is a deception,
persuasion is perfidy.

This doctrine is severe, but sure the dictates of reason can not be less severe, when adjusted to the
requirements of the eternal law which is severe also because it is just and immutable.

Infer from the above, that writers or speakers endowed with great qualities to interest and charm,
are a public calamity, when used in defense of the error. What mind the shine, if only serves
to impress and losing? Modern nations have forgotten these truths, to revive among them the
popular eloquence that much damage to the ancient republics, in deliberative assemblies where
businesses are heard high state where failure of the great interests of society, not another voice
should resonate that of a clear reason, brainy, austere. The truth is the same, the reality of
things move, because he has aroused the enthusiasm of the assembly and spectators, and has been
deciding vote with the accents of a fiery speaker. Is it not true that it is based, is useful
or not what is proposed, to behold all that has to meet, the rest is lost miserably, is to forget
the end of deliberation, is to play with the big interests of society
are sacrificed to the childish display itch oratorical skills, to
the petty starting vanity applause.

We have already noted that all meetings, and especially in the beginning of the revolution,
suffer from a spirit of invasion, and are distinguished by their unwise decisions. The session
perhaps begins with happy auspices, but then takes a dangerous bias, the mood are touched,
the mind is clouded, the exaltation point rises, reaches a frenzy scratch, and a reunion of
men who individually would have been reasonable, they become a mob of senseless and crazy. The reason
is obvious: the impression of the moment is alive, outweighs Above all, it dominates all the natural
sympathy man, spreads like electricity, and running picks up speed
and strength, what at first was a spark, is a few moments a terrible
conflagration.

Over time, some disappointments and train warning to both nations, making go blunted the sensibility,
and not so dangerous fascination Speaking: sad choice for evil, the repetition of the damage. Whatever,
it is not possible to change the heart men, will be worthy of glory and renown speakers clarified
that employ in defense of truth and justice the same weapons that
others use in support of error and crime.

Next to Providence usually placed poison antidote.

§ XIII.

Illusion caused by the thoughts clothed images.

In danger of missing more than that it brings the motion of the affections, there is another
perhaps less repaired, and yet is of great importance, what is the thoughts of coated with a bright
image.

Words can not express the effect that this device produces, such thinking no more than superficial,
deep passes, thanks to his disguise serious and philosophical, such other which submitted nude was
a vulgarity, appearing to hide its origin noble trappings commoner, and enunciated a proposition
that would show dry bulk is inaccurate or false, or perhaps a solemn nonsense, is counted among
the truths that do not allow doubt if covered with artful veil walks.

He said that damage to this point are of great importance, because
they often suffer from Authors such profound defect and judgmental,
and inasmuch as his words are heard with much more respect and deference,
the stronger is the tone of conviction with which expressed, is that
the unwary reader receives as incontrovertible axiom, or maximum of
eternal truth sometimes what is but a dream of a thinker, or a loop
lying on purpose to the good faith of the short notice [19].

CHAPTER XX.

PHILOSOPHY OF HISTORY.

§ I.

What is the philosophy of history.

Difficulty of acquiring it.

No deal here of history under the critical, but only under the philosopher. The on the simple investigation
of the facts is explained in ch. XI.

What is the most apropos to understand the spirit of the age, training ideas clear and precise about
your character, enter the causes of events, and point to each its own results? This amounts
to asking which method is suitable for acquire the true philosophy of history.

Is the choice of good authors? But what are the good guys? Who assures us that has guided the
passion? Who puts up security for impartiality?

How many are the made history as it takes to teach the philosophy that it deserves? Battles, negotiations,
intrigues, lives and deaths of princes, changes of dynasties, political forms, this is reduced
most of the stories, nothing that we paint the individual with their ideas, feelings, needs,
tastes, whims, habits; that causes us to be present at the intimate life of families and villages,
nothing in the study of history make us understand the progress of
humanity.

Always in politics ie, on the surface, always in large, noisy, never
in the bowels of society, in the nature of things, in those events
that remote and low appearance, they are still of great importance.

It is now known as the void, and fill works. History is not written without any attempt to philosophize
about it. This in itself is very good, has another drawback, which is that instead of the true
philosophy of history is often tip us philosophy of the historian. You better not philosophizing
philosophizing that bad, if wanting to deepen history of disorder,
would be preferable that I followed the system of names and dates.

§ II.

Indicated a means to advance the philosophy of history.

Need is to read the stories, and in the absence of other, should one stick to those that exist, without
But I am inclined to this study is not sufficient to learn the philosophy of history. But to
no other purpose, and done with discernment, is one positive effect: study Instant monuments of the
time. I say immediately, that is, they should not stick What we said about them the historian,
but to see them with your own eyes.

But this work, I say, is very heavy, so many impossible, difficult
for everyone.

No deny the validity of this observation, but argue that in many
cases, the method I propose saves time and fatigue.

The sight of a building, reading a document, a fact, a apparently
insignificant word that has not repaired the historian, tells us much
more and more clear and more true and accurate, that all their stories.

A

historian aims to portray the simplicity of the patriarchal customs, collects abundant news about
the earliest times, and exhausts the wealth of his erudition, philosophy and eloquence, to make
me understand what those times and those were men, and offer what is called a complete description.
Although as I said, I find another means easier, which is present at the scenes where I presented
in that movement and life treatment known. I open the writers of those times that are neither in such
numbers, not so bulky and there I find portraits faithful who teach and delight. The Bible
and Homer anything let me desired.

§ III.

Application to the history of the human spirit.

Human intelligence has its history, as do external events, history both more precious, the most
intimate portrait us of man and what he has on powerful influence. They are found at every
step descriptions of schools, and the nature and trend of thought in this or that time, meaning that
many historians of understanding; but if you want to know something more than four are usually
always inaccurate, and often totally false, it must apply the rule set: read authors of the period you
want known. And do not think it is absolutely necessary to mix them all, and thus this method
becomes impractical for the greatest number of readers, a single page of a writer We painted the
living but his spirit and his time might tell us that the more detailed historians.

§ IV.

Example from the faces, which clarifies what was said on how to advance the philosophy history.

If
the reader is happy with what they tell others, and consideration is not itself achieved perhaps
a historical knowledge, but not intuitive: you know what men are and things, but do not see,
give reason of the thing, but will not be able to paint. A comparison clarify my thinking. Suppose
I am talking about a major sugeto I can not deal or see, and I curious to know something of his
figure and manners, I ask those who know him personally. I tell you, for example, which is more
than medium height, space and high forehead, black hair fallen in
some disorder, large eyes, lively and penetrating eyes, pale, animated
and expressive features, which often appears with his lips the smile
of kindness, and occasionally announcing some evil, that his word
is measured and serious, but with the heat of the conversation is
fast, incisive and even spirited, and so I will offer physical and
moral set to give me more idea about possible, and if I assume that
these and other news are accurate, I have been described in the original
faithfully, I have a idea of ??what the caller is my curiosity, and
I will give account of whom as I was eager to know.

But is this enough to form a comprehensive concept the same, so I present to the imagination
as it is in itself? Certainly not. Do you wish a test? Suppose he has heard that the relationship
is a portrait artist of great merit; Will it be able to portray to the person described? I try,
and completed the work, introduce yourself suddenly the original, it is certain that not known
by the copy.

We will all experience for ourselves the truth: one hundred and one hundred times have we heard
explain the appearance of a person, to our way we have formed in the mind a figure in which we
have sought to possess the qualities hearsay, as well, when it occurs the person, we find much difference
that we must touch much work, if not destroy completely.

And there are things that it is impossible to form clear and accurate without them before, and
there in large numbers, and extremely delicate, subtle separately and which together constitute what
we call the face. How explicaréis difference of two very similar people? No other than seeing them: they
appear at all, would know not to say what disagree, but there is something that leaves no mistake:
at the first look at what you perceive, without managing it is.

Behold, all my thoughts. In the critical works we offer extensive and perhaps accurate descriptions
of the state of understanding in this or that era, and in spite of everything we do not know
Moreover, if we submit pieces of writers of different times, it would be correct to classify which
should, we would fatigue to remember the qualities of each other, but this does not would avoid
falling into gross blunders in absurd anachronisms. With much less gracefully got out of work
effort if we read the authors in question: maybe disertaríamos not with so much erudition
and critical apparatus, but we judge with much more success. "The turn of thought, shall we say,
style, language, reveal a writer of such period; this piece is apocryphal, here we discover the
hand of such other time, "and so went about sorting without fear
of making mistakes, for ourselves but we could not understand either
of those as we know no sight of those characters.

If then we say, "and this quality, how is that not here?

Why this one is at most? ?...» why "is impossible," perhaps we would
reply, "to satisfy all scruples V.; what I can say is that the characters
I have listed here the well-known; and I can not be wrong about the
features of his face, because I have seen many times.

"

CHAPTER XXI.

RELIGION.

§ I.

Fool running of the indifferent in matters of religion.

Improper outside this place, a treatise on religion, but it will be some thoughts to focus thinking on
this important matter. Of them is that the indifferent thinkers or believers are terrible.

Life is short, death certain: In a few years, the man who enjoys health more robust and vigorous,
will have fallen into the pit, and know from experience what is true in what religion says about
the fate of the afterlife. If I do not think, my disbelief, my doubts, my invective, my satire, my
indifference, my foolish pride, not destroy the reality of the facts:
there is another world where good book awards, and punishments to
bad, there certainly will not because he pleases me the denial, and
also this whimsical refusal will not improve the fate which, according
to eternal laws have to fit me.

When sound last hour, it is necessary to die, and meet with nothing or with eternity. This business
is exclusively mine, as mine, as if I existed alone in the world: no one dies for me; will anyone
in my place in the afterlife, depriving me of the good, or getting rid of evil. These considerations
shown me quite clearly, the high importance of religion, the need I have to know what is truth in it,
and if I say, 'whatever it is of religion, I do not think about it,
"speak as the most foolish of men.

A traveler finds in its wake a mighty river, will be crossed, ignored
if some danger in this or that ford, and is hearing that many who
are like him to the shore, ponder the depth of water in certain places,
and the inability to save the foolhardy dared to so many. The fool
says: "What I care about these issues?" and thrown into the river
without looking where. Behold the indifferent in matters of religion.

§
II.

The indifferent and the human race