 6, chap. 7, fol. 130 in the year 1550.) The Potosi and Silver,
whose places mention is made here, and very close to this was generally
abounded of silver, said Lopez writes, chap. 13 of his History of
the Indies, and a hundred pounds of metal, which drew from the mines
of Potosi, leaving pure silver fifty: but these silver mines were found
year of 1547, as stated PEDRO DE Cieza, Crónica, cap. 110, lib. 4, chap.
6. HERRERA, Decade 8, lib. 2, chap. 14, fol. 40, or as ACOSTA, 1545.
So that, while the Gorgeous general, were not perhaps as well known
and famous, although Emperor in the year 1549 it received for its royal
fifth every week thirty thousand, and many times forty thousand pounds
of silver: and instead of wages was given to the miners, by the work of
one week, and sometimes, two pounds of silver. He also writes that
there ACOSTA such an abundance of silver in Peru, which for a long
time and he built or was coined, and was not used coinage that was to Caesar
paid the royal fifth, of luck, many think that even the it to any third-party
money, nor paid him the fifth. However, says he played the Emperor,
for the fifth, from the year of discovered the mines, until the year 1564,
seventy-six million and since 1564, until 1585, thirty-five million.
Up here LOPEZ, CIEZA and ACOSTA. (HERRERA, Decade 8, chap. 15, lib. 2,
fol. 5.) (Note HULSIO.)]

CHAPTER XLIX.

The fertility of the land of handsome, and as we returned to the ships.

The

province of the cute is so fertile, that throughout our journey not found, and saw the same,
or similar, because if an Indian cleaves a tree with a hocecilla, distilled, and it takes five
or six measures of honey, so pure like wine, and meal with bread or with other things, is very
nice food: it also makes wine taste that he must, even softer, and till the bees that are small
and sting. The general gave in machined with the soldiers, who could not be here due to lack
of supplies, but if we governor would have known that provision, we had not left the province, and
easily you need to find you. Finally, forced to go back, we came to the Carcokies, who had already
fled with their wives and children, and were better for them not to: the captain sent other
Indians to say back to his village, fearing nothing that would do them wrong. Did If the message:
before you respond, the sooner desamparásemos his people, if not, We would miss him with weapons,
with which we march against them. We wanted some excuse this time, telling the captain that
this war could be detrimental to the whole province; because, if you tried to walk from the Rio
de la Plata to Peru, she would fail Bastimento those who walk. But the captain and other soldiers
despised our opinion, and maintaining his own, continued the march and reached half a league
of Carcokies, already had planted at the foot of a hill near a forest to escape if the venciésemos.
Low Sirvióles its prevention, because lunges, and kill those who could, and intrigued nearly
a thousand in this battle. Two months later we stopped at this village, which was very large,
we returned the mountain of San Fernando, where we had left two ships (as discussed in Chapter
44). Spend on this trip and a half, doing nothing to fight continuously and intrigued 12.000 Indian,
Indian and boys, that forzábamos to be served as slaves and I was fifty.

We learned from the people of the ships, the discord that while we were absent, were born between
Diego de Abreu, Seville, Captain, and Francisco de Mendoza, whom
the general left for Captain of the people.

Diego de Abreu trying to deprive the government and resisting D. Francisco Mendoza, hatred grew
so that, having raised Abreu with the government, he killed to Mendoza.

CHAPTER L.

Diego de Abreu is opposed to general, and the author receives letter
from Germany.

Abreu Not content with this evil, the tumultuous state, city and garrison of the Assumption,
and tried to send people against us that we were approaching our
general.

But Abreu would not open the door or give the city, and recognized as superior.

Viewing as declared general revolt, besieged the city with all its forces by fencing all, and
that was really warning: Soldiers in the square each day they came to our field, asking pardon
of the general, whom he met with Diego de Abreu could not trust its people, and fearing that he
cogiésemos night, or that the city was delivered by treatment [51] (Which would happen), in agreement
with fifty of his closest colleagues and friends, the forsaken, and
gave the general.

The minute they came out of it, They asked all forgiveness, which granted frankly.

Abreu, the 50 Christians who followed him, turned aside 30 leagues of the place, where we could not
hurt, and he to us from anywhere. This war lasted two years, not living General insurance and Abreu,
because this was with his own, wandering like highwaymen, omitting no opportunity of mistreating.
Viewing general lack of calm, determined reconciled with Abreu, proposing to marry his two daughters
with Alonso and Francisco de Vergara Riquelme, relatives de Abreu,
who accepted the match.

And marriages performed with various covenants, ceased concerns.

At this time, day of Santiago, 1552, received by the hand of Cristobal
Rieser, broker Fúcares in Seville, Sebastian Nidhart a letter that
I wrote on behalf of my brother Tomas Schmidel, managers who try to
return to my homeland.

CHAPTER LI.

The author's permission, and down the Paraguay River, up the Parana.

Then took the letter to the general, and asked him to leave the journey. At first the reuse;
and having mentioned my work and annoying long service and loyalty continues that had run in the
King's service, and all this time consider how Bean dangers and miseries suffered, and how many
times I put the same general life without him never stopped, gave
me leave with honor, and letters to the King that, after giving of
all the provinces of Rio de la Plata, pondered what I had served in
them.

Having arrived at Sevilla, I gave myself these letters to the King, and I made relation of all
these regions, and their circumstances, as closely as I could.

Warned for my trip, I took leave of the general and my colleagues: I took twenty Indians Carias
to bring me my clothes and other things, that many more would need in so long way. Eight days
before leaving, came one from Brazil, said ship had arrived in Lisbon John was Helsen, Merchant
of Lisbon, and Erasmus Schetz, a broker at Antwerp and no miss this opportunity, I left the Assumption
with my twenty Indians in two canoes on the Rio de la Plata, the
day of San Estevan, to December 26, 1552, and after 46 miles, we Sabaya
suberic the people, [52] in which we gathered four Spanish, two Portuguese
that were unlicensed general.

We traveled 15 leagues, and reached the village of Gaberetho, then went to 16 miles to another, Baroti
called, from which, in nine days, we got in Bered, far from the town history 54 leagues. We
spent two days there, taking provisions, and recognizing the canoes because we had to climb
up the Parana River, 100 miles, and deposed all, we went to gin,
town where we spent four days, and before was due to decay, and was
as far as King extended his rule.

CHAPTER LII.

The author walks the ground, leaving the Paraná river, and what happened in Tupi.

We left the canoes and Paraná to go by land in the province of the nation's Sliding [53] where to start
the jurisdiction of the king of Portugal: the whole journey takes six months, and there it
many deserts, mountains and valleys to go, so full of wild beasts, that fear could not sleep safely.

The
Indians of this nation will eat their enemies.

They always have war, which is his greatest delight: when due, the losers are the people with
as much support as if wedding. If they want to kill any big parties, and while they last, give
everything asked and like, and wives to have fun, until the time
you have to kill.

Spend their days and nights in banquets and meals, drunk as herds of hogs Epicurus, more awkwardly
than you can say. They are very proud and haughty; make wine corn that get drunk: his language
is slightly different from that of tooth decay.

We arrived at another place called Careiseba, also inhabited by the Tupi. These are war with Christians:
the former are his friends.

On Palm Sunday we left to another people that was 4 miles, and the way they told us that those
of us Careiseba guardásemos and although we had no need of supplies, and which we had come forward,
did not want two of our companions, and went the people against our advice, which just came in, were killed
and eaten by the Indians. Drew near to us after 50 Christians dressed and talked to us about
thirty paces. Keep Indians this custom, have become a little out of hand, if you talk to him
is not presumed he thinks good thing. Viewing these bad signs, took up arms as best we could,
and asked where were our classmates? - responded that they were in his village and we prayed
we were to him, but knowing his deception, as toilets.

Dierónnos a dash Arrow, and shortly returned to his village, from which 6.000 came against
us. Hallábamonos no more defense than a forest next four muskets and 20 Indians Carias, who brought
me to the Assumption, and with so little strength we stayed four
days against them.

Disparábannos many arrows, and considering the resistance was futile, to ambush us on the fourth
night free Indian food with lots of chasing us.

Sucediónos As the saying goes - the crowd of dogs is the death of the hare.

Went eight continuous days wandering through the woods: so that, although I have wandered both
in my life, I never had way more harsh, uncomfortable and ill at ease. Manteniámonos with
honey and roots, and we stopped to hunt some wild animals, because we Indians fingertips.

Finally we arrive to the nation Biesaie, where we spent four days and provide us with what we needed,
not daring to reach the people, by so few.

In this nation is Urqu river, we saw snakes, called in Spanish Schebe Eyba Tuescha, [54] ten paces
long and four inch wide. These snakes do much harm, because if a man bathing in that river, or
swimming wants to pass any animal, the snake wraps in the queue to man or animal, and he gets under
the water and eats it: therefore always walk with your head above water, looking if you pass
any man or animal can be.

From here we walked 100 miles in a month, to give in Scheverveba, where people rest three days,
but so ripped and weaknesses of the journey and lack of food, we never had in abundance but honey. And
then we started to get sick, lost all forces with the long and dangerous journeys made with great
poverty and misery, and the most principal, without food suitable to the nature, or beds that
resting, because we were carrying on their backs, as everybody knows, were of cotton, tected as
a network of four or five pounds of weight and sleep were tied to two trees and throwing it
lies in the field: it is safe when they walk a few Christians in India, in the houses and villages
of the Indians. From there we went to a village of Christians I had to dens of thieves. It
was his captain Juan Reinville, who was then absent, certainly for
our good, in the town of San Vicente, with other Christians to fulfill
certain adjustments had been made.

These Indians, (with which Christians live in two villages 800) are
sugetos the king of Portugal, but below the power of Juan de Reinville,
which was very obeyed because India had been in 40 years as governor,
made war, and pacified the province and judged that he deserved no
better than the government.

And because he was not given long, armed wars and collected in a 5.000 day Indian warriors, and
the King of Portugal could not collect 2.000.

Such was his authority and power in these provinces! When we arrived, was at home of his child,
who treated us with much entertainment, and yet a cure for his people rather than the Indians,
and because we all came out well, we were very glad, giving thanks to God us safely out of that town.

CHAPTER
LIII.

Author comes out of San Vicente, sailing to Spain, and provides second
headwinds port once the Holy Spirit.

From there we went to the little village of San Vicente, which is
20 miles from the background.

Day July 13, 1553 at the port are a Portuguese ship laden with sugar from Brazil and cotton, by
Peter Rosel, [55] Erasmo schitz factor of Antwerp, who resided in San Vicente, and sent it to John
Hulsen, resident of Lisbon, who also was a factor.

He received with love and honor Rosel, requested that I received at the ship, begging the sailors
who treat me as his preferred which they did faithfully.

Eleven days we stopped in San Vicente, where we provide everything you need for navigation.
There from the Assumption to San Vicente in Brazil, 376 miles, which we came in six months.

We
left San Vicente, San Juan Bautista Day, 1553, and at fourteen days at sea, agitated of continuous
storms and contrary winds, broken tree ship, knowing where we were,
enter the port of the Holy Spirit in Brazil, inhabited by Christians,
who with their children and wives till sugar.

There are cotton, large and many clubs from Brazil and other merchandise.

In

this sea, especially among Sancti Spirits and San Vicente, and most of all, there are large whales
[56] and fish, as big as them, often do great harm, because when
sailors go on a ship's skiffs to another, usually come as a herd of
whales to fight one another, and overturn the navichuelos, killing
people.

They are always throwing water, and increasingly so, on average French Cuba, because they put their
heads under water and again to remove it right away, throwing it, as has been said. Which had not
seen this ever, would think that navigating a lot of rocks.

CHAPTER LIV.

The author leaves the port of the Holy Spirit and comes to the Third and the Azores, sailing
to Spain and thence to Flanders. Take the earth again by storm.

Four months we were at sea, after we left the Holy Spirit, continued sailing without seeing land
until the Third Island, where we spent two days, and provide us bread, meat, water and other
necessary things fresh. Obey the king of Portugal.

In fourteen days of sailing we arrived at Lisbon, September 3, 1552, and having been it another
fourteen days, and killed two of the Indians that I had, I went to Seville, which 42 miles far
from Lisbon, and arrived in six days. After sailed by sea to San Lucar in two days: there was
one night, and went overland in a day at the port of Santa Maria,
and another day I went to Cadiz, on the ground.

I found in the bay 25 large Dutch hookers, back to his province: a greater and more beautiful,
new and only once had sailed to Spain from Antwerp. Aconsejábanme
the merchants that I embark on it, and adjusted to Henry Schertz,
your employer, my journey: for which warned me that afternoon, being
in agreement with him that I be warned when leaving. I got into the
ship carrying wine, bread and the like, and some parrots who brought
from the Indies.

That night he drank the pattern more than you should,
and my goodness he forgot me and left me the inn is two hours before
dawn, the pilot ordered that it should be sailed. Looking very tomorrow
where the ship was, and who had a league of land section, I was obliged
take the eye to another, and deal with another patron, whom he gave
the same as the first.

Out of these twenty-four ships port, we were
happy to wind three days, then rose a storm so terrible that we could
not continue the journey