 The son traveler said goodbye
to his motherland. I understood it perfectly.

Leaving your homeland poses a whole, dramatic experience for the heart. It is a solemn, memorable
experience for the traveler's soul; a deep affliction of hope and
fear.

Leaving the sandy beach of his homeland, where the deep breaks the majestic Magdalena, his parting thought
was of an immense treasure. Thoughts of my father's grave, family traditions, ash Home. Sweet
memories, and the mad whims of young love. Friend's fortune, freedom, air, sky, thousands of vague
rumors and the confusion that follows. And all that lovely set of impressions and dreams, regrets
and memories, misfortunes and such; which makes up the Fatherland.
All of which was left behind and buried in a cemetary whose cover
was a city called Honda.

       

What did the future hold? The vague and unknown, the infinite and marvelous-all of which touches the
heart in his dreams of hope. And the doubt covered in shadow when the travelor says, "Who knows?"

Honda
is an old city; entirely Spanish in its construction-but looks so whimsical and colorful that it captures
the highest degree of romance.

The Magdalena River, the great artery of commerce in New Granada, suddenly lost its gentleness after
having been brought in some leagues in the direction of Southeast to west. It narrowed between the high
rocks of two parallel ridges and twisted northward between stony rapids crowned with foam.
It roared like the great bulk of a waterfall until it tired and rested a league below to gently lick
the wide Bodega beaches.

A plain stretched for four miles, interrupted by picturesque woods and
hills of luxurious vegetation.

It came from the ruined town of Mariquita (the tomb of Conqueror Quesada), at the foot of the
central cordillera of the Andes and ended on the left edge of Magdalena, overlooking the
rough rapids-referred to as the waterfall by the natives.

The exquisite Guali River, a sparkling blue torrent whose shore lined
rich woods, limited the plains to the north. It ran O to E to come
clean and give tribute to Magdelena, dividing into two parts of Honda
City. 400 meters above, a beautiful stream flows; cutting the main
harbor beach.

From an outside view, Honda seems to be an eastern
city or Moorish as the capiricious situation pars and with its heavy
masonry buildings. The contrast of colors, roofs, black or white walls,
extravagent ways and balconies and rooftops also procure this image.
And the tufts of tall coconut trees, swaying gently to entertain with
his shadow city, protect it against the rays of a scorching sun that
shines in the middle of a sky forever blue and transparent