 The people who want to overextend their borders, is often narrower than
required by the natural, the conqueror who is determined to earn crown on his head, eventually losing
all, who is not satisfied with the vast domain empires, will be consumed in a solitary rock
in the vastness of the ocean. Of those who aspire supreme power, most found the proscription or the
scaffold. Covet castle of a monarch, and lose the domestic hearth, dream on a throne and find
a gallows.

§ XXXIV.

Observations on the advantages and disadvantages of virtue in business.

God has not left defenseless its laws, he has shielded all the just punishment, punishment which
usually is experienced in this life. For this reason the calculations based on the interest in opposition
to morality, are heavily exposed to failed out, entangling the immorality in their own bonds.
But do not think that with this I want to deny that man virtuoso is found often in extremely
disadvantageous position to compete with an opponent immoral. Do not deny that in any case it is more
likely to achieve an end which may use any means not notice any, as does the bad man, and that no longer
be a grave obstacle to have to rely on very few resources or perhaps only one, as it happens
to the virtuous, because it is immoral for him as if he might be; but while this is true by
considering a single business, is not less than walking the time, the disadvantages of virtue is offset
by the advantages, as well as the advantages vice is offset by the disadvantages, and which ultimately
result, a true man come straight to reap the fruits of your righteousness discreetly reaching the end
proposed; and that the immoral expiate their sins, sooner or later,
finding the debauchery at the tip its evil and devious ways.

§ XXXV.

Defense against a charge under unfair.

The virtuous and unfortunate, have a propensity to identify their strengths as the origin of their
misfortunes, as they tend to these things together the desire to flaunt their virtue, and
to hide their indiscretions, that very great imprudence also committed to the intention straighter
and more pure. Virtue is not responsible for the evils caused by our foresight or lijereza, but
the man often blamed to it too easily. "My good faith I lost," cried the honest man the victim
of a fraud, when that has not lost his good faith, but his awkward confidence in who offered
him too grounds for cautious suspicion. Did the bad guys are also frequently victims other ill,
and other perfidious perfidious? Virtue teaches us the way we follow, but are not responsible
for discovering all the links that it can be found: this is the work of penetration, of foresight,
of good sense, ie a clear understanding and sensible. With these gifts is not at odds virtue, but
not always leads to partners.

As a loyal friend of humanity without reluctance houses in the heart
of all kinds of men; now they shine in the sun shining and pure intelligence,
now is dark with thick fog.

§ XXXVI.

Defense of wisdom against unfounded accusation.

Some believe that the great talents and much knowledge, tend to his evil, that is a kind of blasphemy
against the goodness of the Creator. Do you need anything under the darkness? The knowledge and
the virtues of the creature, is not perhaps emanating from a single source of high sea of light
and holiness, which is God? If the elevation of intelligence would lead to evil, evil of men would
be in proportion to its height Guess the result? Why not remove it?

Infinite wisdom would be infinite evil, and HEOS here in the Manichaean error, finding at the
end of the scale of Reres a bad principle. But what do I say? worse off this error than that
of Manes, because in it, could not support a good start. The genius of bad chair without rival, entirely
alone, to destinations around the world, the king of the underworld should place your throne
in glittering black lava regions of the Empyrean.

No, no man should flee from the light for fear of falling into evil, the truth is not afraid of
light, and the moral good is a great truth. The more enlightened understanding is best known
the ineffable beauty of virtue, and knowing better, have less difficulty in practice. Rarely
is there much elevation on the ideas, without involving her feelings
and or elevated feelings born of the same virtue, or are a disposition
well adapted to achieve.

Up there for the talent and know a reason based on the nature of the powers the soul. Everyone
knows that usually the lot of development of the one is with some
damage the other, therefore, when man to unfold in a particular way
the higher faculties wane in strength gross passions, origin of the
defects.

The history of the human spirit confirms this truth: generally speaking, men very high understanding
have been perverse, and many have been distinguished by his eminent virtues, others have been
weak men, but not evil, and if one or another has come to this end, should be viewed as an exception,
not rule.

Do you know why one talented evil committed, as it were, the reputation
of others, giving occasion for some particular cases general inferences
be drawn?

For in an evil of great talent all think, of an evil fool nobody
remembers, because form a vivid contrast iniquity and great knowledge,
and this contrast becomes more remarkable end ugly for the same reason
that more repairs on the relaxation of a priest in of a layman.

Nobody notices a patch but in a very dirty glass, but in another very clean and brilliant, is presented
from the eyes then the smallest moon.

§ XXXVII.

The passions are good tools, but bad advisers.

We have already seen (Chapter XIX) how pernicious was the influence
of the passions to hinder our knowledge of truth, even the speculative,
but what was said there generally has a lot more referring to application
in practice.

When we try to run something, the passions are sometimes a good assistant, but to prepare in
our understanding, are directors very dangerous.

The man without passion would be cool, would have some inert, lacking one of the principles powers
other than God has given to human nature, but instead the man dominated by the blind passions
and rushes to the objects to the manner of brutes.

Carefully examining the mode of action of our faculties, is easy to see that the reason is to aim to
lead, and passions to run, and so is that this serves not only the
present but also to the past and to come, when they look at the object
alone so it is at present, and the manner in which it affects us.

And the reason is that as true director is responsible for everything
that can harm or favor, not only now but also in the future, but the
passions involved solely in the run, just look the moment and present
posters.

The reason for not only pleasure but profit, in morality, decency,
decorum dispense passions, morality, utility, everything that is not
the impression pleasant or unpleasant, that the act is experienced.

§ XXXVIII.

The hypocrisy of the passions.

When I speak of passion, I mean not only to the strong tendencies,
violent stormy waving our hearts as the ocean winds, those treated
well softer, more spiritual, so to speak, because apparently are closer
to the high regions of the spirit, and often surnamed feelings.

The passions are the same vary only by its form, or rather by the graduation of intensity, and mode
of address to its object. Are thus more sensitive, but no less formidable, for that very delicate
contributes to more easily entice and mislead us.

When the passion is presented in all its deformity and violence, severely shaking the spirit
and endeavoring to drag him over bad roads, the spirit cautions against the adversary, is prepared
to fight, perhaps resulting in the same impetuosity of attack causes
a heroic defense.

But if the passion aside their violent ways, if stripped, so to speak,
of their coarse robes, covering with the mantle of reason, if their
suggestions are called knowledge, and dispositions will, enlightened
but determined, then take for treason a place that would not have
taken by assault.

§ XXXIX.

Example. Two forms of revenge.

A man has been caused by an offense, is a pretension in the success of which can decisively
influence the victim. As soon as it knows, remembers the offense received, resentment dispierta
in his heart, anger happens resentment, and anger engendered a strong desire revenge. And
why stop revenge? Is not it now offers an excellent opportunity? Is not it a pleasure to witness
the desperation of his opponents mocked his hopes, and perhaps lost in the darkness, misery, misery?
"Vengeful, vindictive, says aloud his heart, vindictive, and he knows that you have avenged; dáñale,
since he has wronged you, humíllale because he humbled you, you enjoy the pleasure of live
cruel but his misfortune, as he rejoiced in yours. The victim is in your hands, do not let go; CEBAT
it; quenched at it your thirst for revenge. Have children, and perish .... no matter .... to
perish, has parents and die of grief .... no matter .... die, and more points will be injured
in his infamous heart; bleed so more abundantly, so there is no consolation
to him, so far Filled his affliction, and pour it on your chest villain
all the gall and bitterness that he spilled a day in yours.

Revengeful, vindictive laugh a generosity that he did not practice with you, look not pity
he was not from you, he is unworthy of your favor, unworthy of compassion, unworthy of forgiveness, vengeful,
vindictive. "

Thus says the hatred excited by anger, but this language is too hard and cruel for no offend
a generous heart. Dispierta cruelty opposite feeling: "This behavior would be ignoble, infamous
would be saying the name to himself, that is repugnant to the self-esteem. What then? "I shall
rejoice in the doldrums, in the perpetual misfortune of a family? Did not I am serious memory
unquenchable regret that I lost in my dealings misery to innocent children, and sunk in the
tomb to their elderly parents? This is not I can do, it will not do, is no more honorable revenge,
my opponent knows that if he was low, I am noble, if he was inhuman,
I'm generous, not revenge I seek another it's to succeed by dint of
generosity, when his eye is my eye, your eyes will fall, turn on her
cheeks flush, his heart will feel remorse and do me justice.

"

The spirit of vengeance has fallen for his imprudence, I wanted everything, I demanded everything,
and urgently, imperiously, without consideration of any kind, and the heart has been offended
of such dismantling, has believed that it was debase, has called on his assistance to the noble
sentiments that have come soon and have decided the victory for reason. Another might have been
the result, if the spirit of revenge had taken another form less hard, if covering his face
with masks lied, had not shown his face fierce. Should not give discordant screams, horrible screams,
it was necessary for enveloped and refolded but hidden within the heart, had distilled from there
its deadly poison. "Certainly, was to say that the offender is not worthy of getting what you
intended, and just this reason should oppose you get it. He is injury, it is true, but is now
an opportunity of remember it. Not be the person presiding resentment thy conduct, but the
reason, the hope that something of such entity does not go into the wrong hands. The claimant
did not lacks some good arrangements for performance, why not do this justice? But however
flawed unforgivable. The offense did to you he wishes well, you do not remember it for revenge,
but to form an accurate assessment. Feel a keen pleasure secret and otherwise, in gloom, in losing,
but this feeling do not dominate; just drives you the desire for good, and indeed that if
there is no other reason resentment, do not put any obstacle to his designs. So perhaps, would
he sacrifice favor him, and indeed it would be painful, very painful, but maybe you resign to it. But
do not you stand in this case, fortunately the reason, prudence, justice agree with the inclinations
of your heart, and well considered, or even attend them, experience pleasure in damage to your enemy,
but this pleasure is a natural expansion, which you do not reach to destroy, but rather subject
you not to let it dominate you. No no harm in making such orders as appropriate. What matters
is to proceed with quiet, to see all that there is no bias, no hate, no spirit of revenge,
you use a right and a duty to obey them. "Revenge impetuous, violent, frankly unfair, had
not been able to achieve a victory that has been obtained without difficulty peaceful revenge, insidious,
hypocritically disguised in the veil of reason, justice, of duty.

For this reason it is so fearful of revenge when he acts on behalf
of zeal for justice.

When the heart possessed of hatred come to deceive himself, believing impulses to act of good
will, perhaps, the same love, is as subject to the fascination of a reptile whom he does not
see, and whose existence or even suspicion. So envy destroys reputations more pure and enlightened,
pursues relentless rancor, revenge is glorified in seizures and sorrow of the unfortunate victim,
making it exhausting to the dregs the pain and bitterness. The celebrated Protomártir shone by his
eminent virtues and terrify the Jews with his eloquence God, what do you think that name will envy
and revenge, dry them hearts and grind your teeth? Do you think that was the name surname is theirs?
No, in any way. These men are a scream as full of scandal, cover their ears, Deacon and slaughter
the innocent in God's name. El Salvador in the world to admire how hear him with the divine
beauty of his moral character and the wonderful stream of wisdom and love flowing from his lips
Augustus people throng to see him, and he goes about doing good; courteous to the young, compassionate
with the unfortunate, soft on the culprits, pour full hands the treasures of his omnipotence and
love, only to pronounce words of kindness and pardon, would seem to reserve the language of a
holy and terrible indignation to confuse to the hypocrites. They have found in it a majestic look
and severe, and they have corresponded with a look of snake. Jealousy is ripping the heart, feel
a burning revenge. But what will work, talk and vindictive? No, this man is a blasphemer, say,
seduce the crowd, is an enemy of Caesar, the fidelity for the public peace, religion demands
that it be removed from the middle. And he accepted the treachery of a disciple, and the innocent
Cordero will be taken to the courts, and will be questioned, and responding words of truth, the
prince of the priests will feel devoured with envy, and tear his clothes, and say "Cursed," and
the bystanders say "it is worthy of death."

§ XL.

Precautions.

Never a man meditate much about the secrets of his heart never deployed too surveillance to save
the thousand doors where you enter your iniquity never be cautious too much against the many
pitfalls with which he is fighting to himself. Are not passions so scary when presented as they
are in themselves, speaking openly to his subject, trampling and impetuously as they are put forward.
In this case, however little is preserved in the spirit of love of virtue, if the man has not
yet come to the bottom of the corruption or the evil, feel rising in his soul a cry of horror and
indignation, as soon as it offers the service with her looks disgusting. But what dangers do
not run, if bartered names, and changed the costumes, everything is offered in disguise, upset?
if your eyes look through prisms misleading, they paint with colors and gentle Galanos However,
the blackness and monstrosity?

The greatest dangers of a pure heart are not in the brutal passions of the gross incentive but those
feelings that love for their delicacy and seduce you with her tenderness, fear does not fit
into the noble souls but with the dictates of prudence, the greed is not entered generous breasts
but with the title of foresight economy, pride takes shelter under the shadow of love of one's
dignity, and respect due to the position held: the vanity provides its little joys, vain deluding
to the urgent need know the opinion of others, to take advantage of criticism is disguised revenge
the robe of righteousness, the furor his name is holy indignation; laziness invokes their aid the
need of rest, and the gnawing envy destroy reputations, to engage in obfuscate his breath
impure the splendors of eminent merit, speaks of love of truth, of fairness, how much they should
guard against an ignorant or admiration childlike enthusiasm.

§ XLI.

Hypocrisy of the man himself.

The man used the hypocrisy to deceive himself, perhaps more than to deceive the others. Rarely given
to himself Mobile accurate account of their actions, and therefore, even in the purest virtues,
there is some dross. Entirely pure gold is not obtained but in the crucible of a perfect divine
love and that love, in all its perfection, is reserved to the heavenly realms. While living here on
earth, we have in our hearts a malignant germ or kills or weakens, or tarnish the virtuous
actions, and no small if you get to keep the germs to develop and we lost. But, in spite of
so much weakness, continues to shine in the depths of our soul that inextinguishable light on in her
by the hand of the Creator, and that light we distinguish between good and evil, serving us to guide
our steps, and regret our mistake. For this reason, we strive to deceive ourselves to not get
in too apparent contradiction with the opinion of consciousness, we covered our ears to hear
what she says, eyes closed not to see what she shows us, try us the illusion that the principle
teaches us is not applicable to this case. For this unfortunately serve the passions, insidiously
suggesting sophistical speeches.

Cuestal much the man look bad, or even their own eyes, do not dare,
it is hypocritical.

§ XLII.

The self-knowledge.

The defect referred to in the preceding paragraph has a different character in different people,
for which reason, should in no way ever losing sight of that rule of the ancients so profoundly
wise: know thyself; Nosce te ipsum. While there are certain qualities common to all men, they take
a particular character in each, each which has, so to speak, a spring that should know and
be able to handle. This spring, is necessary to discover what is in the other, to ascertain
to behave well with them, but is more necessary still discover each
one in itself.

Because there tends to be the secret of the great things and good
and bad, on account of that spring is but a propensity strong, reaching
to the others, subordinating all to an object.

This ruling passion resent all the others, she mixes in all acts
of life, it is what called character.

§ XLIII.

Man flees from himself.

If we had the unfortunate inclination to escape ourselves, if the contemplation of within us
we are not repugnant to such an extent, we would not be difficult to discover what is the passion
that we dominated. Unfortunately, no one ran away as much as ourselves, study anything less than
what we have more immediate and more interest. The generality of men down to the pit, not
only without being known to himself, but also without trying. We should be constantly looking
down on our hearts to know their tendencies, to penetrate its secrets, to restrain their impulses,
to correct his vices, avoid their wanderings, we should live with that inner life in which
man realizes their thoughts and feelings, and not put in relation to external objects, but after
having consulted his reason and his will given to the appropriate
address.

But this is not ago, the man rushes, sticks to the objects that incite, living only with the
outer life that leaves you time to think about himself. Sort are clear understandings, hearts beautiful,
do not keep for themselves any price that has enriched the the Creator, they shed, so to speak,
in streets and squares the exquisite aroma, which saved at the bottom of his heart, it could
be of comfort and gift.

Pascal referred to with great eagerness having devoted himself to mathematics and science Natural
tired of this study to find cause fewer people who can discuss on
the object of his favorite occupations.

Eager to find a subject that had not this problem is devoted to the
study of man, but soon learned from experience The study dealing with
the man were still in a lower number of fans to mathematics.

This is true now as in Pascal's time, suffice it to common men to
take to see how few are those who like such a task, mostly case themselves.

§

XLIV.

Good results reflect on the passions.

When you have acquired the habit of reflecting on their own inclinations, distinguishing the
nature and intensity of each of them, even when towing at one time or another spirit they
do not know that this violence. Maybe blind understanding, but this blindness is not set at
all to who has it, it says to himself, "you think you see, but not really see it;'re blind. "But
if man ever set his eyes on the inside, if you work according to impelled the passions without
bothering to figure out where the impulse is born; for him to become one and the same passion
and determination, intellect and instinct opinion passions.

So the reason is not only a slave mistress, instead of leading, coaching
and correcting with advice and mandates the inclinations of the heart,
is reduced to vile instrument them, and obliged to employ all the
resources of its sagacity to provide enjoyment to satisfy them.

§ XLV.

Wisdom of the Christian religion in the direction of behavior.

The Christian religion to lead moral lives close to the reflective
about our inclinations, has done a highly according to the most sound
philosophy, and discovers a deep knowledge the human heart. Experience
teaches that what is missing man to do good, no is speculative and
general knowledge, but practical, detailed, with application to all
acts of life. Who does not know and does not repeat a thousand times
that the passions we go astray and we lost