 We spent an alley with many Bardales, and lead to a square green land and contoured
for the most part died with ivy and elders, said my companion, pointing to the left and bottom of
a bag that was there for two enclosures, one of 'busquizal "(thick bush) and a crumbling wall
between weeds:

- This is my home.

And turning to the opposite side, he added, while pointing to another
that closed the square there:

- And this is the méicu.

The house snuggled TARUMBA the wall on one side of ruin, and there
was with him at pains and losses and the harnesses from the owner.

With these thoughts in his head, looked at TARUMBA without saying anything, but he must have
read it to me in the face that I put, because I said right away:

- No espanti of EYU, because it's metal or wood. I stayed and women, not because of the salt
beds and the hijus, among Casaus and ausentis, it mesmu that if any; and I do not reach the
pa ná tiempu with the work they give me the ajenus beware ... Because, believe me Nah, you,
sir Marcelu Don, what happened to me has vistu moriu Nah, you raise,
going on here with a thousand and five hundred to ca time of day and
nochi, and if not by the Tarumbu juera, Nah, you don believe me Marcelu,
believe me tomi Nah, you and not to emponderancia: if the Tarumbu
juera, the goal of Tablanca vecindariu of callejonis Estus she would
have been devoured by the swarm and cuerus vivus.

Well keep me even putting it in doubt, I left him very affable, and
I went to the doctor's house, which was two steps.

IX

Since he had known little more than a glance, at my uncle, I felt
a great desire to take a paragraph to my taste Tablanca's physician,
because it seemed to me at that youth had more 'quarry' which is in
the usual type and flow of men their age and circumstances.

And the quarry was the first clearings, at ground level, as they say.

As I had been closer to home, came out to meet up with a doublet portal home, little more than
summer, despite the cool winter running environment, but with good coats and plump white flesh
that stuck out in hives and gathered cuffs of her nightgown and above the slight neck jacket.
Upstairs Condújome a few sections, then a short passage, and, finally, I introduced a living room
with sunshine and cabinet, which, for the furniture and the books
it contained, I assumed from then he would dispatch