 

Everywhere luxury and lush plant, rich contrasts and flavor of forms and colors within nature, but
finalise absence of citizen and culture. If still note inflections within the field, is because
they possess not yet finalised the ramifications that two primary hill ranges of the Andes
- Central and Eastern - throw onto the Magdalena different directions. After the hills disappear,
the forests are horizon, and eye of the traveler, sleepy and sad, sees nothing but endless desert.
A nine or ten miles from Honda leads onto the deserted, a low crystal
noticeable river the Guarín, as soon as having fertilized the most
precious imaginable plain - plain productive, varied grasses and coated
with huge forests of palm trees of everybody breeds and Caracolí
giant whose shadow sauntering within the several tribes of solid blacks
and tapirs, chased via the horrible jaguar, whilst within the tall
battlements of the trees are countless birds air concerts and always
surprising.

* * * * * After five hours of sailing, the champagne is docked beside the steamer Bogota, anchored
within the port wine Rabbit. The landscape, sighted from afar, could not be many gorgeous. On the
tall cliff, coated within gentle grass, within everybody its extension, categories of huts bogas room rustic
and destitute farmers within the desert within the vast central Winery constructing, thatched roofing,
single floor, and rear and between houses admirable forest, within
which a green contextual contrasted different inks pretty hair Coconut
onto the slender neck, palms of the guaduas colossal curling, the
round flees of mango and mamey, and ramazones stout cedar and Caracoli
those queen sumptuous abandons jungles of Colombia.

       

And at the foot of these rich woods and these huts filled with locally
color, animated categories passenger and vogues, so discordant and
varied, and forming a curious contrast as The steam that made champagne
and Bogotá and indigenous households.

On one side the luxury of nature, untamed and magnificent, fragrant and full of mystery, the
else the luxury of civilization, science, and the ostentation of
drag man victorious.

There the man primitive, crude, brutal, lazy, semi-wild and retostado via the tropical sun,
ie the Colombian manner - with everybody his insolence, his fanaticism stupid, cowardly arrogance,
his incredible laziness and cynicism of grammar, children of ignorance
rather than the corruption, and many here European, active, intelligent,
and elegant white, often blond with his inserting gaze and poetry,
grammar, alive and fast, its height of mettle, always distinguished
forms.

On the one hand the heavy champagne, boat canopies dry palms, twenty towards 50 feet long and
two or three thick - a kind of floating hut, - and built via a lot rowers whom yell horribly
and glance want a legion of desolated desert or the unhappy Indian Ramada, subjected towards the wrath
of the winds, the invasions of the snakes and desolated beasts, or showers the storms of winter,
with an extravagant home as destitute, and towards cherish relations savage impression, the outcome
of crossing two or three different races, and for which Christianity is a integrated inform of impiety
and idolatry, the law an incomprehensible mess, civilization a thick fog, and the future as the show
and beyond blend within a situation want torpor, laziness and brutality!