 

Sought to stew, the food chopper. It was very rough and was not afraid in the world but its
the gypsy woman, who when he was tired of being beaten trying to bite. To him there was no getting
explanations, but plenty of wine. Alcohol and atrocious fall kept him in the ring in perpetual bewilderment,
as if the head is horrible, allowing no more than slow words and a blurred view of things.

National also ordered to go with them: one more, and discretion at all costs.

The banderillero obeyed by subordination, but muttering to know who was with them Dona Sol

- By way of the blue dove! ... And a family stops to look at these things got ugly! ... What will
Carmen and me Sorrows sign if yegan to know? ...

When he was in the countryside, sitting next to stew on the bench of a car, compared the sword
and the great lady, was gradually fading anger.

Not looked good as I was wrapped in a large blue veil fell from his
cap travel knotting of the coat of yellow silk, but it was very beautiful
... And what a conversation!

Y how to know things! ...

Before the middle of the trip, the National, with its twenty-five years of fidelity home, excused
the weaknesses of the matador, explaining his enthusiasm.

That was seen in the same case, and would do the same! ...

The instruction! ... One great thing, able to command respect even
the greatest sins.

V

- That you iga who is, or is it Yevenes demons.

Cursed be the luck ... Can not can one sleep? ...

The National Response to hear this through the bedroom door of his
master, and transmitted to a pawn of the farmhouse that was waiting
on the stairs.

- That you who iga.

Without that, the master does not rise.

It was eight.

The banderillero looked out a window, along with pawn view that running
down a road in front of the farmhouse, to reach the far end of that
circuit wiring the farm.

Near the entrance of the fence was a rider dwarfed by the distance:
a man and a horse appeared out of a toy box.

Soon came the day laborer, after talking to the rider.

El Nacional, interested in these comings and goings, it was at the foot of the stairs.

- Ice that is the master nesesita - hastily muttered the laborer -. Paece purges bad man. Quie
has icho that continued to fall in, because Tie a goo to give.

Banderillero again banging on the door of the sword, ignoring the protests of it. He was awakened,
for the field was a late hour, and that man could bring a interesting message.

- I'm coming! - Gallardo said crossly, without leaving your bed.

Nacional peek again, and saw that the rider walked down the road to the farmhouse.

The peon came to meet with the response. The poor man seemed uneasy, and its two dialogues with
banderillero stammered with an expression of spasm and doubt, not
daring to express their thoughts.

By joining with the rider, we heard a few moments and turned to retrace
his path, running to the farm, but this time with more precipitation.

El Nacional heard him climb the stairs with no less speed, appearing before him trembling and
pale.

- Is er Plumitas, Sr. Sebastian! Ice is er Plumitas, and nesesita
Talk to the master ... I gave him denque CORASON vi er.

The Plumitas!
... The voice of the pawn, despite being suppressed by the stammering
and fatigue, seemed spread through the rooms to pronounce this name.
The flagman was speechless surprise. In the sword room rang a few
oaths accompanied by friction clothes and a beat up body was put rudely
out of bed. In the occupied Dona Sol notos also some movement which
appeared to be the great news.

- But is Cursed! What Quie me man?
Why get into the corner? And just now! ...

It was Garcia, who hurriedly
left his room, with nothing but pants and a jacket, hastily put on
their undergarments. He ran to the flagman, with blind vehemence of
his impulsiveness, and fell down the stairs, rather than decreased,
National followed.

At the entrance of the farmhouse the rider dismounted.
A farmhand holding the reins of the pony and other workers formed
a group at close range, watching the newcomer with curiosity and respect.

He
was a man of medium height, rather low than high, carilleno, blond,
short limbs and strong. He wore a gray blouse adorned with black braid,
dark pants and frayed with thick reinforcement in the crotch cloth
and leather leggings cracked by sun, rain and mud