 The strange thing about
all this, It appears that no natural result of the concatenation of things, but mat or woven fabric
by the devil, is not around, or near or far from the poor Ramona subject male or female that
is honest, decent and kind to her and that something may be of useful. The only person who has
for her friendly and selfless devotion is a poor hunchback helpless and almost useless.

How is it possible that Ramona did not have a friend in his old schoolmates or between people of
the middle class who had to visit and treat his father and mother, or between elegant ladies
that she was to meet and entertain at home before being ruined? For I know that that is poor people
often despise and turn their backs, but not to the extent that there is only one rational creature
to take his hand and encourage and comfort him.

In high school, and beyond, Ramona, Catholic educators, had to take confessors, there to deal
with priests. How not find a less indifferent and cold depths less off and hard for the father she
Zubulzu?

Ramona was beautiful, elegant, there was nothing foolish and while living in high society, and
not fall into the pit, had to have fans, young and old friends that estimated that cared for her,
and some of which, despite all his modesty and severity of morals, could she be kind, granting
favors those breed predilection and clean and friendly no longer trust the austere virtue,
but neither the sanctity prohibited. How is it that none of those friends first tried to avoid
falling into the abyss, or tried to remove it after without demanding
in return the humiliation and disgrace?

It is possible that the circumstances have so that an unfortunate person does not find who turn away,
but should not be assumed, without insulting or slandering the human race unfortunate that such person
is not offended because it really does not exist in the world. Misfortune Ramona arrives, therefore
the rarest if not the most incredible extremes. Out of hunchback nobody there to assist it or to look for
it: neither raised nor other poor people, or people, middle class,
friends or relatives of your family, or ladies and gentlemen of the
aristocratic society that has grown up and has since lived.

Strange is also the complete and terrible misery to which the author leads her heroine, providing
it to do so magnanimous generosity, which can not but be a bit confused
with the simplicity even in the thinking of fictional people and despised
material interests.

Anyone would think, finally, the idea that a young healthy woman, twenty-five or twenty years,
carefully educated, must have some ability to know something, have some means, industry or
resource to earn an honest living. It can be nurse, teacher rich or chaperon. You can teach music,
French, English, and hand work to first letters. You can embroider, paint, make something, in short,
it is worth two or three pesetas daily. Bad luck tightening, but not always chokes. In The
chasm is too note the strong author's efforts to hasten her as his heroine throwing on such
a depth that does not able to leave, that he had no recourse but death or infamy. Ramona driven
by the gloomy imagination of Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo, is to fall fatally in this horrible dilemma:
either kill or be the mistress of the bullfighter Severiano, aka the band. And as the unhappy
Ramona lacks the courage that is required premeditated suicide, or if the value is not missing,
his conscience or religious ban him committing such heinous crime, Ramona opt on the other end
of the dilemma, and it is seen, at the end of the novel, which will incur an sin uglier, dirtier
and more plebeian, though less fierce and less unlike suicide natural
order and reason and divine will.

While reading the last pages of the abyss we forge for a few moments of pleasant Ramona illusion
that, in the midst of its abandonment, was to find a noble defender
in the torero someone to protect her brutally without requiring payment,
but, as already indicated, this illusion fades quickly