 It seemed there was rained
ash on the immobility of things.

People offered the same aspect of neglect and decay. Ulysses met the poet skinny and yellow,
deep in an armchair, his beard white luenga, one eye almost closed and Another huge open.
Upon seeing the ocean, broad chest, strong man, tan, Labarta is began to mourn a child hiccups,
as if crying on the misery of human illusions, on the deceptive brevity
of life that needs the waves of constant renewal.

More work still cost Ferragut recognize a lady that was small and cramped with the poet. His skeleton
hung flaccid fat tissues, like rags of past luxury. The head was small, her face wrinkling
had the wintry apples, plums, of all fruits that contract and mummified, losing their liquid.
"Doña Pepa !...» The tuteaban old couple now in the presence of Ulysses, with the quiet amorality
of those who are close to death and forget the fears and scruples
of a life that is crumbling behind him.

The ocean seen in this physical misery the sad end of an absurd diet, happy and childish candy
serve as the basis of nutrition, the major rice-dish daily watermelon
and melon filling in between meals, ice cream served in cups enormous,
spreading the perfume of honeyed snow.

They both spoke sigh of illnesses, who judged incomprehensible, attributing to ignorance of doctors.
Consumption was suddenly attacking the people of the countries abundant. His life was smelted in
a blast of liquid sugar ... And yet guessed Ferragut the disobedience
of the old couple to the disciplines of the regime, its concealment
Child tricks to please their own fruits and syrups, the charm of its
existence.

The interview was short. The captain had to return to Grao, where he waited his transatlantic soon
to sail for South America.

The poet cried again, kissing his godson.

I would not see more to this giant that seemed to repel their weak hugs with the bellows of
his breath.

- Odysseus, my son ... Valencia always thinking ... Make for it all
you can ... And you know.

Always Valencia!

What he vowed all the poet, not understanding what was expected of
him Valencia, ocean simple wandering the seas.

Labarta wanted to accompany him to the door, but sank into his chair,
obedient to the despotism of his loving companion, who feared for
him major catastrophes.

Poor Dona Pepa!

... Ferragut felt like to laugh and to mourn when receiving a kiss from his mouth wrinkled,
whose hair had become spikes. It was a kiss that recalls old beauty in contact with a handsome, a
barren woman kiss caressing the child might have.

- The unfortunate Carmelo!

... Do not write, and do not read ... Ay! What will become of me? ...

He spoke of the decline of his poet with pity of a strong and healthy.

Is terrified to think about the years he could survive his master. Who look, not looked upon
herself.

A year later, the captain found in Port Said, at the back of the Philippines, a letter his godfather.
Doña Pepa had died, and Labarta, shaking his tearful stupor of its doldrums, the long goodbye with
a song.

Ulysses spent the eyes of the newspaper clipping was within the letter containing the last verses
of the poet. They were verses in Castilian. Bad! ... After that, it was undoubtedly his approaching
end.

He had no opportunity to see him again: he died while traveling.

Upon landing in Barcelona his mother gave him a letter written almost in agony. "Valencia, my son
always Valencia!"

And after repeating several times this recommendation, let him know it was his heir.

The books, statues, all the glorious memories Labarta, went to Barcelona
for decorate the house of the sailor.

Telemachus could entertain the small breaking the old crowns troubadour, tearing pictures of volumes,
with the unconsciousness of a spirited child who his father is far away and was exposed to
two ladies who adore him. Furthermore, the poet left his godson an old house in Valencia, more
land and a certain amount in marketable securities. Total: thirty thousand dollars.

The other guardian of his childhood, the strong Triton, remained insensitive
to the passage of time.

Ferragut met him several times, on arriving at Barcelona, ??installed
in your home, in dull hostility Dona Cristina, dedicating to Ribbon
and her son a part of the care that was previously only Ulysses.

Steven wanted the little house knew the great-grandparents.

- Did I leave it? ... You know that back in the Navy men are strong
as bronze.

You really leave me?

...

He doubted his influence with the angry gesture of soft Dona Cristina. "Trusting his grandson the
Triton, that instills the love of maritime adventure, like Ulysses?

... Behind blue devil!

The doctor wandered bewildered through the port of Barcelona ... Too much noise, too much movement.
He walked proudly beside Odysseus, making the adventures of his years of ocean tramp and cosmopolitan.
Saw in him the greatest Ferragut: sea man his grandparents, but with capacity; adventurous
of all the oceans as he had been but with a place on the bridge, coated conferring absolute command
responsibility and danger.

To re-embark Ulysses Triton retreating to their domains.

- Next time - said to console to leave without the child of his nephew.

And a few months later he reappeared, bigger and bigger, uglier, more tanned, with a smile silent words
before exploding in Ulysses, the same as a thundercloud burst in thunder.

Back from a trip to the Black Sea, Mrs Cristina said her son:

- Your uncle is dead.

The pious Christian lady lamented the disappearance of his brother,
spend their prayers, but he insisted with some cruelty in the story
of his sad end.

I could not forgive its fatal intervention in the fate of Ulysses.

Had died as he lived, at sea, victim for his temerity, without confession, as well as a pagan.

Another
legacy that fell on Ferragut ... His uncle had been released to swim on a sunny morning winter,
and had not returned. The older of the coastline explained to her how the accident: a fainting,
a collision with the rocks. The Dotor was still strong, but the years do not pass without
leaving footprint. Some believed in a fight with a "pot head" or other carnivorous fish which
hunt in the Mediterranean waters. In vain the fishermen took their boats for all incoming and
outgoing angularity of the promontory, exploring the dark caves and
low funds crystalline transparency.

Nobody could find the corpse of Triton.

Ferragut remembered the procession of Aphrodite that the doctor had described so often in the summer
nights in the distance watching the headlights.

Perhaps he had encountered the joyous procession of the Nereids, by binding to it forever.

This
absurd assumption that Ulysses made mentally, incredulous, sad smile,
repeated at the same time just thinking of many people from the Navy.

They refused to believe in his death. A sorcerer does not drown. Down would have found something
very interesting and when tired of living in the green depths swam back to his house.

No, the Dotor not dead.

And for many years, women who followed the coast at dusk quickened
their pace, crossing to distinguish in the dark waters a tree or a
package of seaweed.

They feared that arise from Triton soon, bearded, lewd, dripping, returning from his foray by the
mysterious depths of the sea.

IV

FREYA

The name of Ulises Ferragut began to be famous among the captains of the Spanish ports. Nautical
adventures from the time it came through very little in this popularity. Most of them had braved
greatest dangers, and if he liked, was the instinctive respect Men
who feel strong and simple with an intelligence that considered superior.

No other reading than his career, spoke with awe of the many books Ferragut filled the cabin,
many of them on matters that seemed mysterious. Some even made inaccurate statements to complement
the prestige of his comrade:

- He knows a lot ... In addition to ocean, is a lawyer.

The consideration of his fortune contributed equally to the appreciation. It was a major shareholder
to the shipping company that provided services. Calculated with proud peers exaggerated the wealth
of his mother, tasándola in millions.

Find friends all vessel flying the Spanish flag at the stern, no matter
what its port of origin and the regionalism of his crew.

All he wanted: the Basque captains, sober words, rude and familiarity confianzudo; Asturian
and Galician masters, lovesick and wasteful, that belie its character greed and sadness inland, the
masters in Andalusia, which seem to lead in its funny language reflects
the white light Cádiz and its wines, the captain of Valencia, to talk
politics on the bridge, imagining what could be the future Marine
Republic; Masters of Catalonia and Mallorca, who know the business
as thoroughly as their owners.

Whenever I connected the need to defend their rights, immediately thought Ulysses. None wrote
like him.

The old drivers coming from below, seamen who began his career in
the boats Coastal and barely fit their expertise to the handling of
books, Ferragut spoke proudly

- They say that people are gross sea
... There you have to Don Luis, who is one of us.

They can ask whatever they want ... A wise!

The name of Odysseus made them hesitate. I thought nickname, and not wanting to incur a lack
respect, had finally transformed into Don Luis.

For some, the only defect Ferragut was his good luck. He still had not lost a ship commanded by him. And
all good sailing ocean without rest should be history of these misfortunes to be a full captain.
Only the farmers do not lose ships.

When his mother died, Odysseus was undecided about the future, not
knowing whether to continue his seafaring life or take a brand new
one.

His relatives in Barcelona, ??merchants agile understanding for evaluation of a fortune, which
amounted to the notary had left and his wife, and adding Labarta and the doctor, just shy of
one million pesetas ... And a man with so much money going to continue
living the same as a poor captain needs salary to maintain his family?

...

His cousin Joaquin Blanes, owner of a knitwear factory, he repeatedly urged to follow their example.
Should stay on the ground and use their capital in Catalan industry. Ulysses was in the country,
by his mother and being born in the neighboring land of Valencia. Needed men of wealth and power
to intervene in government. Blanes was regionalist policy with the enthusiasm of a bourgeois
who is released into fictional adventures.

Tape did not say a word as to her spouse. She was the daughter of a sailor and had accepted be
the wife of another. Also, understand marriage according to family tradition: absolute mistress
women inside the house, but reliant on foreign affairs Lord's will, the warrior, household head,
not allowing thoughts or objections on their actions.

Ulysses was adopted for himself the decision to leave the seafaring life. Worked by the suggestions
of his cousins, he needed only a little dispute with one of the directors shipowner's house to
offer his resignation, no one could get him to back the requests and explanations of the other
associates.

In the first months of his earthly existence, missed the despairing immobility things. The world
was a disagreeable stiffness and hardness. He felt something akin to a principle faint to see
that everything was still where he left him, without allowing the
lower back and forth, the slightest fantasy dynamics.

In the morning, the half-opening his eyes, he felt the sweet sensation of freedom irresponsibly.
Nothing with the fate of the house. The lives of those who slept on the other floors, above and
below it, were not entrusted to their supervision ... But a few days did he needed something
that was one of the greatest satisfactions of his life: the will
of power, like remote.

Two maids came embarrassed to air their voices and peals of ringing. This was all for he who
had sent dozens of hard rough men that instilled terror down ports.

No one consulted him now, while at sea all sought his advice and often needed to disrupt your
sleep. The house could exist without his daily visit from the caves to the roof, going to the
last tap.

Women who did the cleaning in the morning he was forced to take refuge in the office with their land
broom. Not was allowed to comment, could not extend an arm gallon,
same as when scolded the barefoot and bare-chested grumetería, demanding
that the cover is clean as lounge. He felt dwarfed, exonerated. I
thought of Hercules dressed as a woman, spinning her distaff. The
love of family had made him renounce his life of a mighty man.

Only
the treatment of his wife, who surrounded himself with assiduous care,
as if to compensate with that of the long separation, he made the
situation bearable. And she was satisfied his conscience by making
father "earth", worrying about her son, who began to prepare to join
the Institute, reviewing their books, helping in the understanding
of texts.

But these pleasures were not long lasting. Bored him family
gatherings at home and in their relatives, conversations with uncles,
cousins ??and nephews on earnings and businesses or on the defects
of centralized tyranny. According to them, all the calamities of heaven
and earth came from Madrid. The governor of the province was the "consul
of Spain. "

These merchants only interrupted their criticism in religious
silence to hear the music Wagner struck on the piano by the children
of the family. A friend sang tenor Lohengrin in Catalan. The enthusiasm
was the most excited to roar: "The hymn ... the anthem! " There was
no mistaking. For them there was only one hymn. And accompanied with
a Canturri softly to the liturgical music of The Harvesters.

Ulises
recalled with nostalgia his life transatlantic commander: a life wide,
worldwide, incessant and varied horizons, cosmopolitan crowd. It looked
stopped on covered by groups of smart girls who asked new dances in
the week. Out his passage fluttering white skirts, veils that flowed
like colored clouds, laughter and trills Spanish speakers in a music
that seemed to set in, all the playful noise of a cage Tropic bird.
Former presidents of the Republic - general or doctors who came
to rest to Europe - we had on the bridge, with a serious Napoleon,
the main facts of his story. Men business, to go to America, he hoped
his great plans: rivers changed from river, rail through the jungle,
learned monstrous electric forces cascades of several kilometers wide,
the desert cities vomited in a few weeks; all the wonders of a world
in puberty, you want to conceive as her young imagination. It was
the demiurge of small floating world, provided he pleases of joy and
love.

In the hot afternoons of the Line, was enough to give an order
to shake the torpor brutish of things and beings. "Let the music up
and serve refreshments.