 Certainly works
referred to these observations atinadísimas say little to pure feeling aesthetic, because they
are based on imitation, and its authors, although more or less able, lacked the spirit of
its own: but instead, we can say that by its very simplicity and candor perfectly satisfied
that inspire religious fervor. Compositions These paintings were not real pictures made just
for ornamental and permanent gala Room but small portable oratories, diptychs or triptychs, encharneladas
tables, as they named in the language of the time, and they were all based on issues devotees.
Kings captains and nobles took them to war, and its consequent suffering Travel affairs: what
was at camp today, tomorrow could be seen in a castle, and ignorance or culture of winning depend always
his luck. This line of paints due to generalized dramatically.

For cameras and Tarbes of palaces, castles and houses that Elizabeth
I had in Aranjuez Granada, Seville, Toledo, Toro, Tordesillas, Segovia,
Medina del Campo, was, as stated inventory made after his death, at
the foot of four hundred sixty paintings, almost all of devotion,
and Juana la Loca left thirty-six, on which he inherited from his
mother.

Test that not only kings possessed such works, is that many of them they were gifted, and their
perpetrators should be well paid when we know that Fernando V sent to Michel Flemish painter
who was Our Lady Queen there blessed glory, the sum maravedises of 116,666, around the time
he had served the queen from the early SA 1492, until the fine [6].

[Image: NATIONAL GALLERY LONDON

CHRIST BOUND TO COLUMN

FRAME. Braun, Clement & C ª]

Charles I had more than six hundred paintings, known his power, it
is easy to deduce the treasures that accumulate in the palaces of
the Netherlands, Italy and Spain, only her Aunt Dona Margarita of
Austria, bequeathed more than one hundred paintings, and Francis I
of France, or Henry VIII of England, came to possess similar wealth.

But this treasure is no longer composed exclusively religious works. The Renaissance was in
full swing, the pagan auras awakening the love of Nature had eaten the new blood art, artists
and believers lazy and accounting with accounts of mysticism sincere evangelists had happened
others, inspired by the songs of the heathen poets, put his genius to of classic sensuality, pretending
in his works, with great imaginative power, fables erotic exploits of heroes, gods passions,
female nudity, but these painters, understanding and putting his hand in the tragedy of Calvary or
even to the greatness composition and pageantry of color, were able to fill that deep and
sincere emotion stirred the souls of the founders of the early schools. The Renaissance was founded
in the study of old, was revolution provechosísima art, because he taught her to love beauty heedless
of its origin: but making the fantasy prevail on piety, robbed in general and in particular
to painting naive that something mysterious and independent of any external condition that
seduces and captivates even the worshipers of the form.

The painting for over two centuries had been its sole seat in the churches, have dominion also
from the palaces, varied in nature and even when decorated temples, adorned like palaces.

Do not allow the extension of this modest work, but should look at
the welcome Here were the works of the Renaissance to see later how
his character changed and modified trends.

Carlos I must have been a great admirer of his creations, even those
where more shining free sensuality of paganism, because if it is true
that led him to retire to Yuste large number of devotional paintings,
years ago, as reported by Jusepe Martinez had sent Titian painting,
and a portrait, a few pictures of some poems, which, if not as human
take them by divine big shame for our religion!

Felipe II, when he wrote the same name Titian loved us, we charge
for Tables palaces such as Antiope, Venus and Adonis, and Diana and
Callisto, from which it inferred that it was not prudish in matters
of art, and Philip III and Philip IV, continued to meet similar works
in Madrid and the Pardo.

During this long period, which spans the sixteenth century in Spain dominates Italian taste in
relation to the expression elements that animate the paintings, the most illustrious Dutch, Antonio
Moro, for example, are only sought and followed as portrait painters.

In Valencia, Juan de Juanes paint and Ribalta, in Andalusia, Luis de Vargas, Alejandro Fernández
and the divine Morales. We in Italy, conscientiousness in the study of members of the body,
how to design and arrange the table, the use of light, contrasts and harmonies color, to the
styles and methods of execution, but the trend of the Renaissance
to art was, above all, performance of beauty, and born of the ideals
of the mind already provided in the works of nature, the broad and
open to the boldness Florentine, Roman and Venetian frescoes and deployed
his canvases found few converts in Spain.

The monarchs, whom the Church would not interfere your personal tastes sinful were, still adorning
the palaces and pleasure houses with profanity and mythology: Some lords, did the same, as
follows from what several writers refer at that time [7], but for most of the nation, the
art was a mere auxiliary of feeling religious.

Needless there who persists in denying the grounds that in addition to pictures devotees also
they painted a lot of other issues. To be persuaded of how unfounded this claim, just consider
that among the thousands of paintings of the seventeenth century, preserved in Spain, there are very
few they represent historical episodes or scenes of customs, and
instead is incalculable the number of those inspired by the Old or
New Testament, and the lives of the saints: to the vases were usually
arranged so that as a framework to some sacred image: Pictures were
made in abundance, as always well what lies in human vanity, and no
shortage of still lifes, because many artists taking the genre by
way of study: than just a trace, paint is domestic and family could
say.

Know the life of this century, foreign trips, which tended to exaggerate or lie, for files
documents that speak eloquently to dry and bland, for the theater, that lady's imagination is,
for the picaresque novel, which only raises rates class social, for writers, who always felt
particularly devout, were pleased censor customs, describing the way, but the stubborn brushes on
avoiding any representation of vulgar and profane, left us very few
data on how to live, work, crafts, entertainment, houses, rooms, furniture
and clothes of those knights and soldiers, clerics and students, merchants
and beggars, women, and adventurous comic and devout, matrons and
maids, whose patchwork know only morally, thanks Cervantes and Quevedo,
Tirso and Lope, Zabaleta and Salas Barbadillo, because the limited
painters conventional representation of the sacred profane contempt.

Undoubtedly felt intense love for real beauty, which gave proof watching to the holy figures that aspect
of truth, which they lost in HH, it gained in credibility, but it was not possible that nothing
around them every day they thought the subject worthy of use in this observation and his brushes,
when the voice of the Church, so feared and respected then told that life on earth and transitory,
is low and despicable thing compared of the eternal heaven. This is, in my humble opinion,
the cause of Spanish painting of that time is not used, how it serves the Northern countries
to complete the stadium of the country, reflecting the customs which is a way of reflecting the soul
of nationality.

In Italy, also failed to custom paint great importance, because there the art, thanks the culture
of the papacy, it became eminently monumental: but in the absence and with advantage can not
represent human and vulgar scenes arranged beautiful countryside artists Mythology and unlimited,
where there is no beauty that is not contained, as in his admirable myths, the gods of love
are equated sinning men, and men coming to Heroes for the effort, almost be mistaken for gods.

But
the foundation of the fables and myths, as the case for the arts offer is nude, and Spain,
for which governed the consciences, nudity and dishonesty were same thing. Anyone wishing to be
convinced of this read a few books of those great mystical writers desirable to glory and salvation
possible, had not only beauty, but even the mere bodily form like
a bait and spur of sin.

The author, indeed admirable prose writer whose name has been unjustly forgotten stories our
literature, that with more clarity and energy capable of expressing this hostility to the naked but he
naturally exaggerating its dangers, was the Carmelite Fray Jose de Jesus Maria .-- "The eyesight
- he says - is more effective than ear, and its objects snatched the mood more violence, and
so the motion is more intense awakening with dishonesty lewd pictures than with words, and species
are under repair and reports catch the eye than they are perceived by the ears, because the
words paint a thing absent or already passed, but the paintings are present ... And so the
painters when they fabulous figures and lascivious cooperate with
the devil, winning and increasing tax the kingdom of hell.

This introduction was pestilential, poisonous devil's work and trace particularly in these realms
because (as has been said), to take revenge on the land, Christianity, of having destroyed the
temples and idols which were worshiped in India, introduced in Europe Dishonest figures of naked
women [8].

Questioning or diminishing the strength of this way of thinking, it
is said that after writing such paragraphs, perhaps in those same
years, the monarchs decorated their palaces with works Veronese and
Titian, such that as the intransigence of the mystics could be classified
of sinful, and even that it brought several of Italy Velázquez Felipe
IV, but these paintings were imitated by our painters.

Writers on the arts participated in the same ideas, because although the sixteenth century,
some as Francisco de Hollanda, fell before the genius of the Italians, and others as Don Felipe
de Guevara, preferred to all the remnants of pagan art, instead of the seventeenth century, while
Rafael enthuse and Vinci, declared categorically that main subject of the painting is the glorification
of the faith. Carducho, among other claims seems to accept the opinion of a Greek monk named
Ignacio, says that the painters are ministers of the Word, sufficient attribute apostles, and building
on San Gregorio, San Juan Damascus and the Venerable Bede, says that the Holy Spirit succor
the human weakness the miraculous through the paint and paints the images are like history and
writing for those who are ignorant.

Pacheco, driven by equal fervor, writes that the purpose of painting is through imitation represent
the thing with the courage and property as possible ... and being in grace reach bliss, because
the Christian servant for holy things, not content in their operations to look so lowly ... so
that the painting was intended to resemble the imitated only now as an act of virtue, making
new and rich surcoat, and others resemble, rises for one ultimate purpose, looking to the eternal
glory.

Menéndez Pelayo, who has dealt brilliantly as it relates to our educational writers fine arts,
he says, after most widely copied those paragraphs: "This deep religious sense, or rather ascetic
Pacheco makes the theory a predecessor of spiritualism of Owerbeck, moves him to remove all
the paint eigenvalue considering it only as a way of speaking that
is aimed at persuading the people ... and take it to embrace something
convenient religion.

"

D. Juan de Butrón [9], in a book of insufferable culteranismo feel also the principle of the
taste of a painting, if wisely what we might receive, should rise to knowledge the love of God
and teach the principle that we proceed.

Although the precept that time less speculative and more practical, which was Jusepe Martínez
[10] great admirer of the Italian Catholic who advises the painter paints the choice of to
be made to be venerated not made extravagant postures and movements extraordinary, moving more to
worship indecency, and added elsewhere that religious paintings before
attending to the devotion and decorum that the imitated: reaching
to say to these professions of sculpture and painting has been introduced
to other nothing but to worship and veneration of their saints through
whom His Divine Majesty has acted endless miracles.

This was the concept of the sacred writers were painting and special writers. These doctrines rooted
so hard that a century later still reveal traits of superstition and fanaticism. Palomino Men's
as serious as speaking of a religious holy Charterhouse who had to be removed from the cell
image of Mary, of great perfection, for her great beauty caused him
to dishonesty and P. Ayala Interian exclaims indignantly: "Because
what's all the painting of the Virgin, teacher and model of all virgins,
outdoor head?

What blond hair spread out and lying on the white collar? What uncovered decently those breasts that
nursed the Creator of the world? What, finally paint their feet or totally naked or covered
with little decency? "[11]. So until the Conception Murillo, perhaps the most poetic expression of Catholic
art, became suspicious.

A proper attempt something I have stopped the above, but without insisting
that the matter allows, because such ideas were the cause of that
painting of that time, except the portrait, is limited to the religious
genre.

Without incurring the absurdity of rejecting this phase of the national spirit, let me lament
that their exclusivity would deprive us of other artistic.

But if in regard to the choice of issues, won the love of the supernatural, regarding how to treat
them as representing the human figure, the prevailing one essentially realistic sense. The painting
then creates only Christs and Virgins Santos, but does not give a perfect dream with features,
but by imitation bravest model, its beauty is not an offspring of the mind, not born of the
idea Raphaelesque short, but human nature itself. The types of apostles, martyrs and hermits,
are taken field and the underworld, or are old soldiers of Flanders and Italy: the artist without
caring to ennoble even clean them, put them on the altar and there are revered and adored: persuaded
to encourage and entice the imagination because they have southern
life: Spanish painting is created.

III

YOUTH OF VELAZQUEZ.

Don Diego Rodriguez de Silva y Velázquez was born in Seville, according to tradition, lack of
evidence Borers in the street: it was his father Juan Rodríguez de Silva, a native of Portugal,
but born and resident in Seville, and his mother Ms Jerónima Velázquez [12] was baptized in the
parish St. Peter's June 6, 1599.

Of the great painter's childhood nothing is known: presumably to study a few years with any
professor of humanities at the many who at that time had at Seville, but should not have this
very long literary apprenticeship. Cean Bermudez says, noting that his parents an inclination
the boy decided to painting, because I was always drawing in books
and pamphlets had put more successful in school by Francisco de Herrera
the old, well known for ease in painting as by the harshness of his
genius.

This was so bland condition and hard to put up his daughter for not got nun and her son stole
and fled to Italy. Its paintings reflected his character painted with extraordinary force, to
imitate those who, having Italy became excited state with the grace and elegance of Roman schools
and Florence. If this intransigence was the result of artistic ideals fought more or less or simply
the consequence of his character, nobody can know: the truth is that the disciples suffered
unwillingly and stopped short at his side. The man was intolerable to the teacher. Velázquez, perhaps
by choice or second thoughts on the initiative of their parents, because even had not reached
fourteen years, left the blacksmith's shop and went to Francisco Pacheco. The latter figure
is interesting, both for the self-worth, but because of the influence exercised in the future
of Velázquez.

It is not known for certain whether he was born in Seville, or if
he traveled Italy: what is certain is that he was a man of outstanding
culture and great prestige, painter preceptist and poet.

If I had not written more than verses one would remember him because
concept was damaged, disheveled and cool, without getting closer to
their models Herrera and Rioja, and his friend Góngora was assimilated
only objectionable thing.

Worshiped as a painter Italian-style and although nothing remains of his outstanding merit,
was greatly appreciated in his time, perhaps influencing this estimate before personal garments
powers art: his paintings are more accurate but as cold as his sonnets. Greco tried to Toledo
likened year 1612 without any of their good qualities.

Has passed to posterity because of what he wrote. He wrote in prose interspersed with verses the conversation
Peaceful between Thomistic and gathered, about the mystery of the Immaculate Conception, Our
Lady, and a pamphlet in defense of compatronato of Santa Teresa, which argued against Quevedo's opinion,
as is known, defended the exclusive patronage of Santiago. But composed two works because it deserves
to be estimated. The first is [13] Art painting its antiquity and greatness. In regard to the
relationship between art and religion is founded on the doctrine and guidance from the Jesuit friends
who helped him in his work, and it touches into practice is a reflection of the ideas of the
Neoplatonic writers of Florence. Book Description The true portraits is a collection of them, made
two pencils, they are from King Felipe II to artists who enjoyed popularity then and now are
forgotten: the most natural of others using copies, all interesting and the quality of the people
and for the excellence of the hand, and some very sober and masterly that worked before may
be of Velázquez Pacheco.

There was no shortage, however, in Seville during those years watching a poet who crucified Christ
Pacheco, where the performance was well under the thought, say:

Who put you well Lord so stark and so dry? You tell me that love I say we Pacheco.

In spite of this, the artistic and social merit of the teacher must have such respect their fellow
citizens who became mayor and overseer of the profession of painters, and the Holy Office having
regard to their wisdom and prudence had instructed him to look particularly carefully and visit
the sacred paintings of things that were in public places, giving to this committee, which is required
of law.

Not without reason called the Palomino to the house of Francisco Pacheco art golden prison
because were his friends and at different times due to read or present his or her work many illustrious
men. Fernando de Herrera, Pablo de Céspedes, Mr. Roelas, Martínez Montañez Juan de Malara,
Baltasar del Alcázar, the Carducho, Gongora, Jauregui, Alonso Cano, Quevedo, Rodrigo Caro, author
of the superb elegy to the ruins of Italica, and perhaps Miguel de Cervantes.

The intellectual atmosphere created by such artists and poets, of which some were already dead
and others still living, was the atmosphere that he breathed Diego Velázquez, who almost child Herrera
came to power, grim and scolding, original and uncompromising, he drew with canes burned and painted
with large brushes, and went to school a good man, peaceful, imitator of the Italians, whose
dwelling had to be prevailed academy where classical taste, the fruit of the neatest illustration,
but the classical order of reflection.

Here begins to emerge Velazquez's genius, because even people who live surrounded by by education
and a tendency, especially by the currents of the time, were keen
all spiritualism, although there ruled in doctrine and practice of
art, devotion the former Spanish and the Italian Renaissance, far
from bowing he easily the opinions of others began to work, keeping
only what Nature put before his eyes, stubbornly clinging to master
the form, realizing that things apparently lower, mean and rude are
pregnant beauty for those who can study them.

      While his teacher wrote
    that the painting is commendable
    because it can serve the glory
    of religion and the promotion of piety, the most celebrated painters
competed in the representation of appearances miracles and wonders,
inspired by faith, he did studies on animals, birds, fish and still
lifes in perfect imitation of nature.
