 Pray draw the attention of precious jewels, lace, the exquisite
fans, plaster and wood sculptures, beautiful bands, capricious leggings, blankets, coats and jackets
or coats for popular use, the harness rare, pellon of frames, the beautiful tapestries and
sandals anyway, now cares one to observe the Indian-made weapons from the microscopic to nearly
razor the great Moorish dagger, a sword of Toledo and the fabulous style and fearsome knife
three quarters length frightening for both ends. Everything is there, curious, in terms that he feels
the temptation to buy everything to keep Andalusian museum. As for me, impressions were so vivid
that I keep my museum in memory. Sevilla has left me so vividly recorded in the mind as if it
had been there a long time.

Impossible I would make a detailed description of the business and artistic treasures that
is Sevilla. A residence of five days was not enough for a neat observation, and though it was,
I am not able to speak properly for fine arts. Out very pass my most vivid impressions.

Since then, the cathedral is the great wonder of the Andalusian metropolis. It is an enormous
mass stone, Gothic fifteenth century, almost entirely, because the back is Renaissance, completed
much later, - a circumstance that produces a disagreeable contrast. The church has no tower and
main façade is incomplete, lacking major busts and ornaments of their own time. Completed slowly
over a long course of time, appears on the outside as a monument dislocated, however the majesty
and boldness their bows and air strongholds that seem to make a silent invocation to heaven.
Greatness the cathedral (the first in Spain without dispute, in some respects) is in the interior.
Such is his wealth of marble, its single large tile flooring black and white has cost the large
sum of 125.000 dollars. It measures a total length (with prolongation of the royal chapel)
of 417 feet, 315, latitude and elevation, starting 53 feet in hoods rises to 104 in the aisles,
to 145 in the main and to 171 in the dome or dome that dominates. As seen, the proportions
are colossal.

Its five vast warehouses are imposing majesty, especially central, whose admirable handcrafted stone
columns resting on numerous formidable and daring is a lightness and remarkable courage. Ninety-three
windows ogival windows (by the century XVI) is beautiful for its fineness and color, and the
choir stalls is one of the richest and best work I've seen in the Gothic cathedrals. The frescoes
of the dome are beautiful, like the exquisite work of monumental gates that enclose the choir.
Can be considered contain many beauties of art that cathedral, just know that she has worked on
one hundred ninety-six notable artists, some of them eminent and first order. And However, by some strange
neglect, ignore the name of the architect to draw the plan such a great monument.

If the two colossal bodies are superb in every way, and the walls,
small chapels and vaults have a hundred beauties to admire, to penetrate
to the royal chapel and the chapter house (Making a sudden transition
from the gloomy solemnity of the Gothic to the flowery creations Greco-Roman
art) are beauties of sculpture and paintings and reliefs and works
delicate architecture that are of great merit.

There is revealed in works immortal genius Murillo, Herrera and other great masters, alongside much
higher sculptors. In the royal chapel worship the statue of Ferdinand the Catholic and are among
other notable graves Don Alonso the sage and his mother Dona Beatriz.