 Progress is undefined. No one discerns the goal or the term:

    

Arcana et volvens fatorum Amplius movebo.

Achieving super-man, evolution and selection will emerge from her womb archisuper-man which can
treat the super man as merciless as this man has been treated.

And so without showing to the changes and promotions, per omnia secula seculorum.

Pray we like or dislike us, now we have an account, now we do not have an account, if the super-man
come, come no matter who weighs. Neither conservatives nor may prevent retrograde. About Nietzsche
and Gener this point are in perfect harmony. Let's see what we disagree Gener and what, in my
opinion, with great view, Nietzsche amendment to the flat. Let something first about the philosopher,
the most original and most fitting that, as sure Gener has flourished in the second half of the
nineteenth century. Nation was Polish, German citizen and professor Classical Philology, we do not
care to know at which university or institute. War came between Germany and France, which
France was defeated. Nietzsche And then, in compliance laws, was forced to take up arms and go to
war. Before those days Nietzsche was hardly distinguished, but being in the siege of Paris,
a town of Granada struck and knocked down his horse, and Nietzsche himself fell to the ground
bloodied and with a deep concussion. Nietzsche's disciples claim that this drop was similar teacher
in effect to which St. Paul had on the road to Damascus.

The truth is that the recovered Fall, Nietzsche became another man appeared prophet, apostle
and, finally, dude.

I remember I have not read but have heard of, in the classroom where I studied Seminar Philosophy,
without finding out later on what authority, documents or testimony is supported history, the most
learned Cornelius a Lapide in his childhood was a creature almost silly or insignificant at least, but
one day walking around his place, had the misfortune or fortunate to meet in the middle of two
games or bands of boys, who were stoning, and received a huge stone head. This upset him and
beat him so happily changed the brain, which are not well recovered from his grave and dangerous
wound, became one of the most Acute and sublime Jesuit scholars were in the seventeenth century
wrote luminous comments the Pentateuch, and other works are no less useful than ten or twelve
volumes together in folio; and, finally, died in Rome in the odor of sanctity. Nietzsche certainly
something had to happen similar. "Opinion of some German physiologists, Gener said that the concussion
he received the fall off the horse in front of the capital of the civilized world was, as the
fall of San Pablo on the road to Damascus, the source of his inspiration
and genius.

Be this as you want, the fact is that particular philosophical vision of the universe is developed
only after at this time. "

If Nietzsche had been Polish pure, completely Aryan, his philosophical view of the Universe
adjust your system exactly to Mr. Gener, but Mr. Gener suspected in body or blood of Nietzsche was
not a little of Mongol or Tartar, perhaps produced the mixture when they invaded the East of
Europe the hordes of Genghis Khan or Timur other Turanian fierce
conquerors. The truth is that in Nietzsche there are two elements
or factors of his genius, from both of atavism: an Aryan, and Gener
accepts all of this product factor, another Turanian or Mongolian
moving Nietzsche to be despotic, cruel and heartless