 I had the same confidence in elevation its spirit
and scope of his views. Some days it was hidden. Ran after people not knowing who bring her
back. Gonzalo, who every morning first thing was by Saloncillo, read in a press as infamous
as hypocritical Sarrio Young. "Circle of the species population - said - that a woman, the
protagonist of a drama loving happened not long ago, has eloped with her lover's haven where
his family was incarcerated. Feel that this rumor is confirmed by directly affecting people
well known and esteemed in society Sarrio. "

Gonzalo still felt something was about to tear it tore into the chest. Left drop the paper. Smiling
nervously, and with strange high-pitched voice, he went to Don Feliciano Gomez, who was the
only person there:

- I know you think the z. .. My wife has run away with her pimp, huh?

Don Feliciano looked surprised. Although he was a man who understood little smile, seeing him
smile that way was overwhelmed, and he replied sadly:

- Yes, Gonzalito, yes. I knew that you had not yet passed the ultimate ... In truth, after of
what happened, this final blow should not take you by surprise ... Boto brake, you should assume
where he had to stop.

- And to me, what? - Cried the unhappy young woman with the same smile, showing his body an exaggerated
concern .-- That escapes ... Good! ... God blessed Go ... Nothing
I have already to do with it ... Ah!

If the law would allow me to marry! ... Not happen a month without it ... And why not, we will
see, and why should I not be able to do?

... Anyway, if I marry for life, temporarily marry me ... I will take around a good girl, huh, Don
Feliciano? And walk with God ... It will be the end of the one p. .. profession, while my wife is
a hobby ...

As he spoke these ugly words, circled the room, took off his hat, shrugged and made other gestures
extravagant. Finally laughed.

- Look, Gonzalillo - Feliciano said .-- just spent a bald ... but times will come better. After
the bad always comes good. The things of the world must be taken
with cachaça my boy.

Growing up in disgust and bile in the stomach, what is achieved? ... Here I am me. Last month
lost a boat ... Everyone came to comfort me thinking he was desperate.

I answered: It is true that I lost Juanito, but, if he had lost Carmen, would not it be much worse?
Same thing could lose one another, because they were both at sea.
You have been a disappointment: well ... but you have health. Would
not it be worse also you to put yourself sick? You have to think all
my boy. Health is the first ... You eat well, take good shots, and
go ahead! than others and forget ...

Gonzalo out of the Club without
saying goodbye, leaving the good Don Feliciano with the word in the
mouth.

At home himself familiar with Don Rosendo Ventura drain. Against
what everyone presumed, not made a deep impression