 Finally laughed.

- Look, Gonzalillo - Feliciano said .-- just spent a bald ... but times will come better. After the
bad always comes good. The things of the world must be taken with cachaça my boy. Growing up in
disgust and bile in the stomach, what is achieved? ... Here I am me. Last month lost a boat
... Everyone came to comfort me thinking he was desperate. I answered: It is true that I lost
Juanito, but, if he had lost Carmen, would not it be much worse? Same thing could lose one another,
because they were both at sea. You have been a disappointment: well ... but you have health.
Would not it be worse also you to put yourself sick? You have to think all my boy. Health
is the first ... You eat well, take good shots, and go ahead! than
others and forget ...

Gonzalo out of the Club without saying goodbye,
leaving the good Don Feliciano with the word in the mouth.

At home himself familiar with Don Rosendo Ventura drain. Against what everyone presumed, not made
a deep impression. On the contrary, from that day on it a trend señalóse to cheer, and participate
in social commerce, not surprisingly, left in the population. Began visiting the homes of
friends, to appear in the cafe, walking through the streets, to chat, discuss. He did not talk
about leaving. Until, with great astonishment of the village, one of the dances that took
place in the Lyceum, danced all night as a pollastre that pisase the room first.

However, Cecilia was very restless. Animation that his brother was so untimely, more like a nervous
breakdown. Above all, the strange smile, like a grimace, that was falling from the lips to
read the newsletter of the Young Sarrio, made her shudder at times.

Then came what was natural. After that insane excitement, wine, after a few days a deep, dark
depression. He spent three without leaving your room, not just dish test some of which Cecilia
had, and what is even worse, unable to sleep. With open eyes and ecstatic, he spent hours and
hours lying in bed, looking at darkness. On the third night, at about three light lit, dressed
and started writing a long letter to his uncle. Then he wrote another one with about Cecilia. Closed
and placed on the table first, so that they look suddenly pulled out a cigarette, lit it in the
light spark plug, and began pacing the room. Before he threw his cigarette end. He opened the
desk drawer and pulled out the revolver which he kept there. Brought to light saw that was
downloaded, which does not fail to surprise. He was almost certain to have loaded For a month,
more or less. He searched the box of capsules and not found. How very strange! He soon remembered
that Cecilia had been with him in the hand, and a sweet smile sad and drew on his lips. He went
to get their hands on guns. Found them equally discharged. The cartridges were missing from their
site. He remained motionless and pensive long time. Then, as if awakening from a dream, he
shook his head and sighed. He put on his hat, opened the door and down the stairs with great
secrecy. Passing the door of the main floor, hit her ear. He listened a moment, the face haggard,
his hair bristling. He had clearly heard the voice of his wife calling him from inside. After the
hallucination, continued to fall, opened the outer door with the key hanging pin, and hit
the streets.

Had not yet dawned, but in the East seemed a faint precursor of the
day clearly.

The morning was cool. A water falling from the sky fog menudísima marina. Without hesitation
he went the dock. He climbed to the second wall and looked at the sea, whose horizon at that time
was not very long, because of the fog. The previous days had blown the northwest, and had curled
and stirred up the bottom. Big waves spreading swollen from afar their riding huge roar and
crashed against the front of the Pawn, spitting the foam to the top. The boy's eyes encountered
a tender that was entering the port and danced like a walnut shell on the waves. That entry was
interested of course. Continued every twist and turn with eager attention, as if it will be
something. After fourth time, when it was moored to the dock, he felt the spur new thinking. Sighed
and whispered, "Come." And went on, rubbing against the railing of the waist wall.