 Therefore, without renewal of the materials the
body, without eating, sleeping, drinking, dressing, eternally the same, with nothing to think
about, with nothing to do - outside yawn grass - without love, without hatred, no children,
no day without night, no good without evil, no thought and no action, ie without conduct - the
most boring sort of life that has been possible to imagine, or hungry and thirst, and sleep and
I hate heat and cold night and inexhaustible, that is, the more absurd.

Since life is unlimited imaginary imaginary construction, real life, with its joys and sorrows
transient, is nothing but a prologue or introduction to the happiness or perpetual misery,
with the result that "the dead are the living and the living are Dead, in the words of A. France,
or rather, is a trocatintas, because the living can work in the other world, bringing souls in
purgatory, for example, and the dead can do all things of this world, to provide her husband
with "the daughters of Mary that it San Expedito ask, when in a hurry.

But,

since the major objectives of man, intoxicated with terrors and hopes for the afterlife, they came
to be out of this world, this world was out of the spotlight men, and therefore, natural laws,
which have provided the wonderful resources of modern civilization in the middle ages were outside
the scope of human understanding fully absorbed by the anguished concern entities and things supernatural
dazzled by the mirage of the other world to give back to real life and the front to the imaginary life,
believing that the highest and noble ambition of man was to "sit eternally at the right hand
of God the Father ", after his death, which was stupid degrading and vile all longing for happiness
before he died.

And the real world, stigmatized as one of the four enemies of the soul, was ignored until the
dawn of modern times as it spread beyond the monomania of which made medieval Europe a mere
variant of contemporary China, as if this man living for the dead man lived in it for after
death.

GOD'S WORD

In summary, our mental ancestry, gradually highlighting the patchwork of religions, theogonies
mythologies and the distant past, came to be worded as follows:

God had made men for heaven, but so to is lost in the land, and the devil, seizing the opportunity
by the horns, had won for hell.

So to not be alone in heaven, God came down to earth, chose from among all the people to yes
and dictated its terms, which were forgotten, so later he sent a ad hoc child a second message.

The
official guardians of the first word of God ignored the God child
carrier the second, he was arrested, tried, sentenced and executed
by infringing on the laws of God the Father.

But others picked up on it and built the church, the house of God the Son, against the synagogue,
the house of God the Father.

God spoke to Moses between lightning and thunder, if not yet known rights of man and the duties
of the father who had children and wives, slaves, donkeys, oxen and goats to explode, killing
or sale, had spoken as a Jewish patriarch, the king selfishness, establishing, first, the
obligation to love him above all things of the world, which still must be abandoned by those who
want to serve in all rule, the most burdensome of all the charges
that have weighed on the conscience of man, duty has produced more
human than sticks, torture and killings, more tears and suffering,
more misery and more customary imbecility.

And because God had committed the indiscretion of talking, the man had to be silent in perpetuity
or speak only to repeat like a parrot with no feathers, the Divine Word, who became the Nessus
robe of human intelligence. And thirty-two generations of men passed under the Christian era in poverty,
ignorance and barbarism chronic, uttering or hearing only the sacred word, fulminated from the
pulpit, volcano hazards, in perpetual eruption punishment in this world and the other for the
sinners and infidels, an inexhaustible source imaginary terrors to
implant in the heart of the elect for heaven horror indispensable
to life and the fear of inevitable death.

And condemned by the Church with terrible punishment in the afterlife and the civil power penalties
atrocious for the bereaved in this, the suicide, which has been in far Japan, as it was in ancient
Rome, a limit to suffering and therefore to human cruelty, disappeared from European customs
and arrive, then the suffering and cruelty to the maximum consecutive its extent possible, was a
hundred times at once, for no additional invention of the instruments of torture, the power of despots
on the temporal and spiritual believer placed between the devil and
hell, and forced to surrender with all lowliness and humiliation and
penalties rather than face the awful eternity.

God had thought, and thought of God - non plus ultra, in itself - paralyzed from a stroke reason
and human thought, then, as the all-powerful, God was not obliged to be reasonable, nor fair,
neither good nor right, and whatever it was, the men were obliged
to blindly obey, on pain of eternal damnation, as the pope, nor is
bound to be the wisest of men and also have the right to be infallible.

Human

reason and void for the purpose of human life came to be on the understanding believer of the
appendix in the intestine of civilized man: a superfluous body, since he had no specific function.

And
then came to Christianity those dark and miserable ten centuries
of age average, divine thought strict diet, in which human intelligence
gave no single step forward, stuck in the mental paralysis of the
Muslims and the same circumstances: Everything was thought out, everything
was resolved, it was all said everything was written in advance by
the prophets and apostles by the dictation or inspiration of God,
and sanctioned with horrible punishment.

For the theologians of all varieties, respectively burned alive those who thought differently than them,
and God was in the Middle Ages the king of theologians, waiting other souls from death to judge
his intentions and thoughts, and precipitate into the eternal fire, if they differed from his,
as though Jesus himself had said: "Do unto others what you would
have them do unto you ", this did not pray with him or his father
or his theologians that the "home of the blacksmith, wooden knife."

THE BREEDER AND ITS CREATURES

At all times the servility of the governed has been particularly pleasing to the rulers and
especially rewarded by them, and at all times has been given to the
tycoons imaginary with the food most desired by the wealthy real.

The idea of ??standing before the mighty and humble to the humble, that man doing gentle with women,
children soft and hard with the villains, is suppressing whip in
schools, prisons and chains in the club at home, this idea array of
contemporary civilization, derived from the principle of equality
of all men, is a new concept of personality from the human right,
as opposed divine right and clearly expressed by Jaures the February
11, 1895, in the chamber Members of France in these terms: "If God
appeared before the crowd as palpable, the first duty of man would
refuse him obedience, and consider it as an equal with whom things
have to be discussed, not as a master to whom we submit.

"

Until the modern age, the faithful and penitent pricked penetrated the house of God beg on their
knees, confessing their sins, kissing the ground and beating their breasts. Some Protestant
sects, removing seats and making prostrations, initiated input human dignity in the temple, four centuries
before it was abandoned in Spain and America the traditional obligation of the child daily,
to ask the father's blessing hands in supplication and kneeling on the floor.

In some sections of the American behind, yet, when they have God with
bells through the streets to sell to a dying man, passersby and neighbors,
prostrate knees, as the subjects of the Eastern potentates to the
passage of their respective despot.

At the time that flourished early Christian theologians, the most abject servility, servility
refined subtle oriental Greek decadence, it was fashionable in the world, which stood temples
to the reigning emperors to worship, and to deify God in the forms of time, Christians took
the ceremonial of the fear of his master celestial to the limits
as possible, to the fullest extent of the disgusting and absurdity,
as if God had "made men in his image" to be his antithesis, pear sacrifice
a burnt offering himself as Saturn to their children, to degrade,
capricious omnipotence raised its highest in the second life to that
of "motu proprio" had fallen lower and dirty in the first, as if the
men had received the existence of black letter, not to enjoy it, but
for that they suffered as a sentence of shame, for "the crime of being
born of original sin."

And by flattened and depressed to enlarge God, men were reduced to
zero, those common to zero, the "Lord's anointed" to zero on the right
of the almighty "Single source of all power and all authority in heaven
and on earth", only accessible their religious magic creatures and
through his Church, which, thus bringing its reason for being and
worth of the professed omnipotence of God and submissive helplessness
man, was fatally needed to maintain these conditions of its existence
survival: superstition, credulity and ignorance are the three main
components poverty of spirit, and doomed to fail from the moment and
to the extent that their Pupils find other sources of power and assert
different from yours and more effective than his, as is precisely
the case of science and secular civilization, which, just encountered,
have suddenly risen from man's natural ability to overcome difficulties
of life, in ways derived from human intelligence, and reduced faith
in the power the dead to help the living, half, third or a tenth of
what it was.

At the height of its lethal effect on the human spirit, the doctrine of the flattening of living for
the enlargement of the dead, so considerably lessened capacity to Christian thought and action
in this world, the Arabs and the Turks, coming out of your barren deserts to promote a new and
fresh on another sliver fanaticism same trunk, entered Christianity as wolves in sheep herd
of sheep, and took a clean sweep from Asia Minor, Egypt and North Africa until further into the Pyrenees,
Austria and Poland, where they were stopped by a rest of human energy, bran providentialism flooding
in those towns in the northwest, which were in worship Aboriginal individual manhood on faith
in themselves, the yeast of the practicality, which sprouted later, the ingredients of self-government,
self help and self control, first outbreaks of human capacity for
human life and human initiative, which posed to the Netherlands and
England in the seventeenth century the rule of the world was the sixteenth
of Spain, twice emaciated by the eight centuries of Muslim and Catholic
fatalism while, on the faith in the help of Jesus and Mohammed and
the four subsequent fatalism pure Catholic, on trust in the help of
the Virgin and the saints guardians.

THE POTTER AND CANTAROS

"Christian theology, in its main character, was more outspoken during the period calamity that
has passed through the human species in historical times, says Cotter Morison in his masterful
Service of Man The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is still the most greatest catastrophe known,
the gradual death of the ancient world for five centuries long. All evil afflicted humanity during
that terrible time: arbitrary power, the most cruel and devoid of remorse, a Treasury occlusal,
who finally exterminated the wealth, pestilence, that became endemic and depopulated whole provinces,
and, to crown all, a series of invasions of barbarian hordes that swept over the country as a consuming
fire. It was at this age that the foundations of Christian theology were settled - the theology
of councils and parents .-- The conception of God, his relationship
and dealings with the world was outspoken in a society groaning under
oppression, misery and sorrow without example.

No need to say, was an age of great and almost morbid cruelty games circus was a constant
discipline inhuman passions ...

... "The cruelty, injustice and arbitrary power were too familiar to be shocking, too consistent
to have them by the transient and accidental. The world saw dark was taken as a forecast model
and ideal world beyond the grave. God was a powerful emperor, Diocletian and Constantine a landmark,
making his home with his own. Ran to his edicts through space and time, his punishment was
eternal and whatever it was, his justice could not be discussed. And so these words came to be
written: "He had mercy on those who wanted to have it, and it was hard to who declined to be soft.
You tell me why find fault? For who has resisted his will? Now, oh, man! Who are you to reply
against God? Will the thing formed say to that formed why hast thou done so? Did not the potter
power over the clay to make the same piece a vessel of honor and another for dishonor? "which
has probably contributed more to the human misery than any other man speech output. The teaching
of St. Paul fell on fertile soil. For nearly 1,500 years of human consciousness did not feel shocked
by it.

Since the birth of Arminian theology has been a gradual and growing
revulsion feelings, and now he says flatly that "the potter no right
to be angry against their pitchers.

If different had wanted to make them different. "Claims an "omnipotent demon wishing to be completed"
as all-merciful, when exerting the most perverse cruelty, are no longer allowed in shocked silence.
But if great difficulty of hell and eternal punishment was happily overcome, there remain, in
the whole scheme of Christian redemption, moral iniquities and detours that no man well of this,
whatever their religion or theology, would be guilty. The notion that God wanted to be prompted
by the death of Christ is totally innocent low natural barbarous ages rude when costly sacrifices
were a recognized to appease angry gods, but repellent now. Hardly the most depraved man,
in his right mind, would accept the punishment of an innocent person instead of that would have
offended. A high-spirited man suffer almost anything rather than face such enormity.

"The idea is barbaric, well worthy of that conception of justice of the Chinese happy If the player
gets an individual to operate, but indifferent to who is to blame or not. However, this cruel
and barbaric notion is central to the Christian religion, at least
I understand that not yet been found to be out of writing.

Satan can still annoy theologians to loose in this world or the next. When they have their eternal
role Esplanade tormenting souls in hell, they have to clarify their foreign temporary distractions
on earth, and explain how they can be allowed by a merciful God. For an angel fallen, extensive
skill, subtlety and malice, he is permitted to tempt men and women, even children, to commit
sin, away from Christ, jeopardizing his hopes of paradise. And he who allows this, is supposed
to detest sin. If I had desired that abound, what else could have done to stop the Archfiend,
aided by legions of lower hell, go like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour, with constant
access men, even to the inside of your mind, whispering evil thoughts, stimulating, and yet, often
isolated by holy prayer, always renewing its attacks on poor souls, till the last moment of
mortal agony, triumph more often than failing in drag to his place of torment? The request
of Christ, "not induce us into temptation but deliver us from evil, "has never been heard or
has never been conceived. We are always induced to temptation, we are never free from evil
on this side of death's door. A being supernatural human happiness sank in paradise and brought
sin and death the world, is appointed to the office to tempt men, at all times, in all places
during life; able to get into the minds of his victims and pervert his soul in society and solitude,
in the dream, even in prayer, capable of taking all the costumes, even appear as an angel
of light. The most artful seducer and vile human is limited in terms of time and opportunity
to corrupt the innocent. Satan is constant and invisible accesses. Now, a parent or guardian
to allow children to associate with poor charge characters would be justly condemned as lacking
the sense of duty and humanity. But God allows something infinitely worse, for all the difference
going from an immortal spirit the most profligate of the tempting land. That a human father try
and imagine the distress that would see his innocent, inexperienced daughter's arm and fascinating
compliment seductive. Would not it be your first step, put an end to such mischief trade? Do not forgive
widely public violence on their part if it appears that the designs of villain had been crowned
with success lamentable? However, it is understood that the father heaven sees this and much
worse every hour and every minute of the day sees the young, the weak, the destitute, robbed
by a supernatural tempter, his own child, his rebel angel entirely
wrong and evil, and sees him succeed in his company to ruin souls.

And then the betrayed, the poor human victim is punished, not the devil. "

Outlawing the use of modern intelligence to modern life, the Church is enabled to continue to
explain the facts of this with the intelligence of the past and may coin and the faithful really binding,
with errors, lies and absurdities, can make up dogmas of faith on the inexplicable, the unknown
and incomprehensible about the past and future of human existence. Hence, theologians have always
distinguished, as Buckle says, for his deep knowledge of things that we know nothing.

This is also why the dogmas of the past to save the soul is the future have to swallow integers,
as the castor oil capsules, for which chews, vomits and loses the drug: "The first thing that
has disgusted me to the religion which professed to seriousness of a solid and consistent
spirit is the universal condemnation of those who know or ignored, says Mme. Roland, in his
memoirs. When nourished by history, I had faced the extension of the world, the succession
of ages, the march of empires, the virtues public, the mistakes of many nations, it seemed
petty, ridiculous, outrageous, the idea an operator that delivers to eternal torment to those countless
individuals, weak construction their hands, thrown on the ground amid the many dangers and night
of ignorance of which have suffered so much already. I'm embarrassed about this article, it
is clear, "I'm not also on someone else? Examine. From the moment that a Catholic has made this
argument, the Church can consider it lost. I see exactly why the priests want a subservience
and so ardently preach the religious faith that takes no consideration and worship without murmur,
it is the foundation of his empire, and it is lost since it was reasonable. "

FAITH AND REASON

At first glance surprising survival of such great moral and intellectual nonsense next to the
great extensions contributed to human understanding and positive discipline of modern civilization.

But
is that those enormities represent the ideal of justice of the ages preceding present civilization.