 But time passed in vain, neither sung mass or stones. Uncle Guster remained invisible.
Then, when you open your window, watching a clear sky, bright, the soft splendor of the winter
sun, but the sea was rough, no foam and no waving noise influence of a dangerous wind.

The rains covered the island in a gray robe, which barely marked with undecided outlines the
nearby mountains. Peak to Peak weeping pines for all filaments its foliage and the thick humus
layer was soaked like a sponge, expelling fluid under foot footprint. On the bare stage of the
coast, rock, amontonábase rain tumultuous forming streams, leaping from rock to rock.

The broad enormous fig trees were shaking like broken umbrellas, letting the water in the large
enclosure sheltered by the dome. The almond trees, bare of leaves, trembling as black skeletons.
The deep ravines llenábanse roaring water that rolled into infertile the sea. Roads, paved with
blue pebbles, between high dry stone embankment, convertíanse cataracts. The island, thirsty and dusty
for much of the year, seemed to repel by every pore of this exuberance of winter rain, like
a sick drug repellent Late energetic and difficult to assimilate.

In these days of rain, Febrer was locked in his tower. It was impossible to go to sea and impossible
to also go with the shotgun in the fields of the island. The farmsteads were closed, with
its white stained by pouring buckets of rain, no more life to the thread blue smoke escaping from
the holes in the chimneys.

Forced to inertia, the lord of the Pirate's Tower again to reread one of the few books purchased
in their travels to the city or smoked thoughtfully, recalling the
past I had wanted to run ... What would happen in Mallorca?

What would your friends? ...

Immersed in this enforced immobility, when he needed the distraction of physical exercise She
remembered the previous life, increasingly distant and indecisive in his memory. I thought it
was another's life, something he had seen and knew exactly, but belonging to the story of
an alien existence. Is it really that Jaime Febrer which had rolled through Europe and had their
hour of pride and triumph was the same who was now a tower seaside,
rustic, bearded and almost wild, peasant sandals and hats, more accustomed
noise of the waves and the shriek of the gulls that try men?

...

Weeks before he had received a second letter from his friend Toni Clapp, the smuggler. It was
also written in a cafe in the terminal: four lines scribbled in a hurry to make This his good memory.
That rough and kind friend will not forget, not even looked have been offended by his previous letter
unanswered. He spoke of Captain Paul. Always Febrer angry, but moving deftly to untangle their affairs.
The smuggler had faith in Valls. It was the smartest of chuetas and generous as any of them. Undoubtedly
remains afloat would take the fortune of James, and he could spend your life in Mallorca relaxed
and happy.

Receive later news of the captain. Valls did not want to talk to everything was resolved.

Febrer shoulders moved to learn of these expectations. "Bah! All over ... "But the sad days of
winter, his resignation was stirring against the existence of mollusk
held in a shell of stone.

Was I going to live always? ... Was not it awkward to have locked in this corner, still having
to fight youth and vigor in the world? ...

Yes, it was a fumble. Very beautiful and romantic island shelter during the early months when the
sun shone, the trees were green and customs practiced on their island mind the bizarre charm
of novelty. But bad weather had come, the loneliness was intolerable, and the life of peasants
appeared to him with all the rudeness of their barbarous passions. Those peasants dressed in
blue velvet, with bands and colorful ties and flowers behind ears, had seemed at first created
only original figurines for an ornament to the fields, an operetta singers of pastoral languid
and sweet, but better known now, were like men, and men barbarians, in which the friction of
civilization had barely managed a slight polish, retaining all the angularity Cutting their
ancestral rudeness. Viewed from afar, for a short time the charm seduced of novelty, but he
had entered their customs, it was almost one of them, and he weighed
as a fall in this life than slavery, which clashed at every turn with
ideas and prejudices of the past.

Should move away from this environment, but where do you go? How do you escape? ... Was poor.
His entire capital consisted of a few dozen hard he had brought from his flight from Mallorca,
quantity that still retained by Pep, stubborn in its refusal to accept compensation. There should
remain, stuck to his tower like a cross, expecting nothing, wanting nothing, seeking the annulment
of his thought vegetative happiness like that of the Sabine Women
and tamarisk trees growing between the rocks of the promontory, or
clinging to the clams always submerged rocks.

After long reflection conformábase with their lot. Do not think, I would not want. Moreover, hope,
never abandons us confused doeth descry the possibility of something
extraordinary would be submitted on time for starting such a situation.

But while this was coming, how overwhelming solitude! ...

Pep and his family were his only family, but without realizing it,
obeying such After a confusing instinct increasingly moved away from
him.

Jaime were detained in isolation, and they remembered less of the Lord.

Margalida not long ago that appeared in the tower. Seemed to avoid any pretext for this trip,
and even dodged Febrer encounters. It was another: it would seem
that had aroused to a new existence.

The innocent smile and confident of puberty had turned into a Reserve gesture, as a woman
who knows the dangers of the road and walking with slow and cautious step.

Since I was the subject of courtship and the boys went to apply twice
a week festeig under traditional, seemed to have realized large and
unexpected dangers not previously suspected, and stood beside his
mother, avoiding any chance of seeing alone with a man, blushing just
a manly eyes crossed with theirs.

This was nothing extraordinary gallantry in the customs of the island, but nevertheless Febrer produced
in mute rage, as if he saw in it an attack and plunder. Invasion Can Mallorquí by atloteria
love bully and gazed as an insult.

Had considered the farm the same as if it were their house, but since these outsiders arrived and
were well received, he was leaving.

In addition, suffered in silence despite not being, like the early days, the only concern family.
Pep and his wife were still believing the lord and his brother Margalida revered as a powerful
being came from distant lands, to be Ibiza the best place on earth, but Despite this, other concerns
seemed to be reflected in their eyes.

The visit of so many atlots and modification that this had brought their customs made them less
caring with Don Jaime. All of them were concerned about the future. Who deserves to be the husband
finally Margalida? ...

During winter nights, Febrer, confined to his tower, looking a little
light shining their feet: Can Mallorquí.

There were nights festeig, the family should be alone, about home, but he stood firm in their isolation.
No, not go down. He complained in his defiance to bad weather, as if to make responsible for
the cold winter this change had been carried out slowly in their relationships with family
payesa.

Oh, the beautiful summer nights with your evenings that extended into the wee hours, watching the stars
tremble in the dark sky beyond the black edge of the porch! ... He sat Febrer under its roof with the family
and Uncle Guster, who came attracted by the hope of a gift. Never let him go without a slice
of watermelon, which filled the mouth the old with the sweet blood of red meat, or a fragrant cup
of fragrant herbs figola of Mt. Margalida, eyes on the mystery of
the stars, singing ballads Ibiza with child's voice, soft cooler,
Febrer heard the slight breeze that shivers peopled the blue fog of
night.

Pep had wonderful air its great browser adventures on land during the years he had served the king
as a soldier in the remote and almost fantastic country of Catalonia and Valencia.

The dog, crouched at his feet, seemed to listen, fixed his eyes on the love of soft gentleness
reflected at the bottom of a star. Incorporábase suddenly with a nervous impulse, and giving
disappeared leap in the dark, sonorous sound of vegetation between broken. Pep explained This
boot quiet. It was nothing, an animal that wandered and lost in the shadows a hare, a rabbit was sniffing
with his sensitive nostrils of hunting dogs. Sometimes slowly sat up, with grunts of watchful
hostility. Someone passing by near the farmhouse, a shadow, a man walking quickly, with the speed
of Ibiza, used to go quickly from side to side of the island. If
the shadow spoke, answered all his greeting.

When he passed quietly, pretending not to see, as it seemed that the dark wanderer not learn
of the existence of the farm and the people sitting on the porch.

Ibiza was ancient custom greeting in the open field not only closed the night. In paths crossed
the shadows without a word, avoiding the meeting to rub or not known. Everyone went to their business,
to see the bride, looking for the doctor to kill an opponent in the other end of the island
to run back and say that at the same time was with friends.

Everyone who walked during the night had reason to go unnoticed. Shadows feared the shadows. A
bona, nit! "Or a request for a cigarette fire could receive in reply a pistol.

Sometimes no one went to the farm, and yet the dog, moving the neck,
howled against the black void.

In the distance appeared to answer human howling. They were screaming long and wild that cut like
a war cry mysterious silence "!...» Auuú And much further weakened by distance, answered another
fierce exclamation: "Auuú !...»

The peasant was quiet your dog. There was nothing strange about these cries. Were atlots that
aucaban in the dark, guided by the sound of their cries to be recognized
and perhaps meet, perhaps to fight, being called a cry of defiance.

It was likely that after the aucamiento sounded a blast. Things young and the night! ... Adelante!
With the home team was not anything.

And Pep was the extraordinary account of his travels, under the astonished gaze of his wife,
I heard these wonders for the thousandth time, always new.

Uncle
    Guster, not to be outdone, told
    stories of pirates and
    sailors brave Ibiza, supporting
    the testimony of his father,
who had been a page in the felucca captain Riquer, raiding the hero
behind the frigate Happiness, the fearsome pirate "the Pope."

Excited by the heroic memories, sang with trembling voice the verses that the crew had celebrated
the triumph Ibiza, songs in Castilian, for greater solemnity, and the guy whose words disfigured
Guster.

/ * [4] Where are you, Papa brave man of such courage, that fear of death I hid in a drawer?
... * /

And the toothless mouth of the ocean was still singing the deeds of other times, as if datasen Yesterday,
as if they had witnessed, as if suddenly they were to fly above that earth wrapped in darkness
the flames of the towers watchtowers announcing a landing enemies.

Other times, her eyes shining with greed, he spoke of massive flows that the Moors Romans and
other red sailors, who called the mormandos, were buried in caves the coast, boarded later.
His grandparents know much about it. Too bad they died without saying a word! ... It told the true story
of the cave of Formentera, where the Normans had saved their products
piracy in Spain and Italy: holy golden chalices, chains, jewelry,
gems and coins measures bushels.

A terrible dragon, trained no doubt by the red men, watched at the bottom of the chasm with
the treasure under his belly. The rash that served as drop off the grass. Red sailors had died
many centuries, the dragon had also died, the treasure must be still
in Formentera.

Ay, Who could find it! ... And the rustic auditorium shook with emotion, without doubt the
existence of such wealth, the respect he felt for the narrator's old age.

Those placid evenings, which would not be repeated for Febrer! Not going at night a Can Mallo,
fearing their presence interfere with the family talks about Margalida of suitors.

On nights of experiencing more distress festeig, and without explaining why, asomábase at the
door of the tower, looking eagerly toward the farmhouse.

The same light, the appearance of forever, but he imagined hearing the silence of the night new
noises, echoes of songs, Margalida voice. There Ferrer would be the hateful, and sang that
poor devil, and all atlots barbaric and rude, with their ridiculous costumes. Great God! How
had they been able to like these farmers? ... With what he had seen in the world! ...

The next day, to raise the Chaplain to the tower to carry food to Don Jaime, the I asked him
questions about what happened in last night.

Listening to the boy, imagine all the accidents Febrer courtship. The family dinner fast in
the evening, to be ready for the ceremony. Margalida took down the roof fourth party skirt, and
then put it on, with red and green scarf crossed over chest, a smaller head and a long tape
loop to the end of the braid, We put the gold chain he had given
his mother, and went to sit on the abrigais, folded into a kitchen
chair.

The father smoked his pipe, snuff of drinking, the mother, corner, weaving reed baskets, the
Chaplain asomábase outdoors, under the broad porch, which would meet the atlots silent suitors.
Had that were there from an hour earlier, because neighbors had spotted
arriving dusty or clay, after walking two miles.

On rainy nights under the roof shook their hood of coarse shawls, inheritance from grandparents,
or the women's shawl that was wrapped as a token of modern elegance.

After agreeing briefly the order that would follow in his conversation with the girl, rival's
troops entered the kitchen, because in winter the porch a cold. A blow at the door.

- Avant qui continue! - Pep screaming as if unaware of the presence
of the suitors and was waiting for an extraordinary visit.

Came softly,
waving to the family. "Bona nit! Bona nit!" Were seated on a bench
as school children, or remained standing, looking at all the atlota.
Next to it was an empty chair, and when it was missing, the applicant
put in a squatting position, to use Moorish, talking to the girl quietly
for three minutes under the glare of his opponents. The lower short-term
extension of the coughs provoked, angry looks and claims threatening
a low voice. Atlot was withdrawn, and another for the post