 A lost've done a good man.

- Why not bailed me for since the first day I administered the baptism of the five commandments
because she squealed as I see him bristle a bit, because I make him
walk straight as a spindle, and I was more afraid that the thieves
to the Civil Guard.

- And how do you want!

- It's natural.

It makes a will of her husband, and pants gratings the grating me
I ... This ruling houses and big girls, lady, and the world.

- What
have salt!

- Have salt God has placed me, especially in his head.

You will already know. Ea, I'm leaving. I have to do at home. "

While this mother and daughter talking in the living room and Ponte
Obdulia chatted about that, telling the girl who never forgive his
brother that he brought the family a person so ordinary and Juliana,
who said diferiencia, parapet and other atrocities.

There would never good friends. By leaving, he kisses Juliana Obdulia, Frasquito and a handshake,
offering to iron our shirts, the current price, and turn their clothes,
so same or less than what the tailor would take cheaper.

In addition, he also knew she cut for men, and if I wanted to try, encargárale a suit, that would
not less elegant fixed that you do portal cutters that he wore. All his clothes Antonio it was
her, and say whether the boy was wrong ... See! For him his uncle Boniface an American who
had been released to go to town (Glass Gallows) on the Ghost, and therefore there like the garment,
which it borrowed the mayor to cut another by it. Ponte thanked, skeptical, gallantly, with
regard to abilities of women for making men's clothes, and fired them at the door, helping
to load the various packages, and packages atadijos joyful carried.

XXXVII

Not wanting to be inferior to her sister Obdulia, or appear at home with less authority and chulita
Mangoneo that the intruder told her mother that she could not manage decently with a servant
to all, and as Juliana won the cook, she imposed the maiden ... Well! They talked for a while,
the girl gave such reasons in support of the new official, who did
not Francisca choice but to recognize their need.

Yes, yes: how they would proceed without maid?

To play such an important position, had already chosen a girl fine Obdulia educated in the
service of big houses, and that was free at the time, living with Browning family and the funeral
decorations. Daniela was called, was a beauty from the figure, and a portent of industrious
activity. Anyway, Doña Paca, so painting hoped that soon the girl was fine to recreate the service
had to pay.

At night was Hilaria, which opened Dona Francisca giving a message of Juliana, the which looked
more like an order. He said his cousin who did not think the lady in doing more shopping and
when noticing the lack of something necessary, we will notify her that nobody knew how address
gender and out good and neat.

Item: Mrs. to be reserved at least half the pension money to go play the countless items of
clothing and other objects they were in Peniscola, giving preference to papers with maturity was
the fall, and so in a few months could regain much anything helpful. Mrs. Held Paca warning the
happy Juliana, who was anticipating it, and offered to follow promptly, or rather obey. As his
head was so dizzy, the effect of the unprecedented events of those days, the absence of Benin,
and why not say so? the scent of flowers perfumed the house, had not gone through the lie to
review the reams of papers in several folders kept as gold cloth. But I would, yes ma'am, I
would ... and if Julie wanted to charge a commission as annoying as the play, the better. Said the
new cook who served it for himself if his cousin, and continuous act began to have dinner, which
was very much in Doña Paca and Obdulia.

The next day was added to the family's maid, and much needed child and mother believed her services,
both marveled at having lived so long miss them. The Daniela success of the first day was thus
so open and notorious as the Hilaria. All did well, with skill and alacrity, divining the tastes
and desires of women to satisfy instantly.

And what good manners, how sweet pleasure, what humility and desire to please! It would seem
a challenging job and a young and competitive, which conquered betting soon as the will of
their masters. Dona Francisca was in his glory, and all that grieved was the narrowness of
the room, in which four women could barely stirred.

Juliana, truth be told, did not look favorably upon the entrance of the maid, who cursed lack
he did, but not crash so soon, he said nothing, and reserves the purpose planting it in the
street when consolidating a little rule that had begun to exercise.

In other matters, advised and put into practice so thoughtful provisions that the Obdulia had
to recognize it as a teacher in the art of government. Ocupábanse find them also in house,
but with such conditions of comfort, ventilation and cheapness loved her, that was not easy
decision to not mix well in Madrid. It is clear that he was gone Frasquito with a fresh wind
of pupils home (Concepción Jerónima, 37), and so happy man. Doña Paca had no room for him, and still
accommodate you in the hall would have been difficult for being full of tropical and alpine
plants, moreover, was not relevant or unbecoming a man known for elegant and some skull, lived
in the company of four single women three of whom were young and pretty. True to the estimate
should Dona Francisca, Ponte visited her daily morning and evening and on Saturday announced
for next Sunday excursion to Pardo, it intended to greening your hobbies and skills of chivalry.

With
what pleasure and curiosity out the four borrow the neighbor's balcony to see the rider! Had
a very handsome and stiff in a great big horse, and waved and rolled several times, stopping
the horse and making a thousand antics. Obdulia waved his handkerchief, and Doña Paca, in outpouring
of friendly affection, could not help yelling from above: "By God,
Frasquito be very careful with this beast will not throw to the ground
and give us a disappointment.

"

Spurred the skilled rider, trotting down the street of Toledo to take Segovia and follow the
round to join with friends in the Puerta de San Vicente. Four were young in a good mood with
Antonio Zapata's departure on that tour cyclists happy, and as Ponte
spotted and giant beast, with cheers saludáronle and jokes.

Before leaving in the direction of Puerta de Hierro, and Zapata spoke Frasquito the case that
primarily they met, saying this at last, with many difficulties, had obtained the order to
be released from Benin and his Moor. Departed joyful, and along the road began the match between
rider and horse's meat iron, encouraging and provoking each other with cheerful voices and
family curses. One of the cyclists who was champion winner, came and went, ahead of others, and
all ran faster than the hack of Frasquito, who was careful not to go crazy, remaining at a moderate
pace and trot.

Nothing happened to them on the trip. Polidura gathered there with friends and other trails, which
went out with the fresh, joyful lunch, paying for half, according to convention, Frasquito and
Antonio quickly visited the gathering of the poor, took the captives, and later returned to Madrid,
dashing ahead to Benin and Almudena.

God did not want that back was as happy as the first leg, because one of the cyclists, called,
not a bad name, Peter Minio, the skin as the devil had tipple over lunch account, and gave thanks
to do with the machine, getting and taking off for dangerous narrows, until In one of those
steps was to crash into a tree and broke a hand and a foot, is rendered useless to continue
pedaling. Troubles did not stop here, and more this side of the Iron Gate and near the Nursery,
the Frasquito steed, which was undoubtedly already loaded the dizzying spin bikes that passed
and repassed in front of their eyes, also feeling ill governed, he wanted to free themselves from
a rider ridiculous and annoying. Spent a bullock carts loaded with broom and oak for the ovens
of Madrid, and and it scares off the pony, as he pretended horror, is that boats began to and
more boats, until he managed to fire into the clouds to the elegant gentleman. Poor fell Ponte like
a sack half empty, and the soil froze, until his friends came to lift. Wound was not, and
fortunately not suffered stroke care in the head, because they kept their knowledge, and as he
stood up he started to cry, red like a turkey, apostrophes to the road that he said had been
to blame for the loss. In the confusion, the horse, yearns for freedom, runaway escaped to Madrid
not be caught by passers-by who tried, and within minutes, Zapata and his friends lost sight
of him.

Benin had already transposed Almudena, in his journey takes the line of the nurseries, where
the old saw go fast as the wind, hack de Ponte, and realized what had happened. I know what
she was afraid because I was not Frasquito for such jokes, or consented to his age so ridiculous
displays of conceit. But would not stop to know what some of the set, because reached soon longed
to rest Almudena Madrid, who suffered from fever and was exhausted.

Step by step advanced in their path, and the Puerta de San Vicente, and about nightfall, they
sat down to rest, waiting to see happen to the expedition to the victim on a stretcher. But seeing
them in half an hour there were, they continued their way to the Virgen del Puerto, intending
to go to the streets of Segovia Imperial. In pitiful condition were the two: Benina barefoot, torn
and dirty clothes black, the Moor old, green and haggard face, revealing either their gaunt
faces hunger who had suffered the oppression and sadness of forced confinement in what looks more
like dungeon to hospice.

Nina could not take his mind the image of Doña Paca, or ceased to imagine, and in a way, and
of another foster care home that would be. At times he expected to be received with joy, at
times feared find Dona Francisca furious at having her request that alms, and above all, to go
with a Moor. But nothing put in so much turmoil and confusion his mind as the idea of ??the developments
that had to be found in the family, as Antonio with vague references
to tell the exit Pardo.

Doña Paca, and he, and Obdulia were rich! How? This was something sudden, brought from the
overnight by D. Romualdo ... Go to Don Romualdo! He had invented it, and dark breast of the invention
out person Indeed, doing miracles, bringing wealth, and turning into reality the dream gifts Quia
Samdai King! This could not be. Nina suspicious, believing it was all joke Antonito Joker,
and instead of finding Francisca swimming in the abundance, find drowning, as always, in a
sea of ??traps and misery.

XXXVIII

Trembling came to the Imperial road, and having ordered the Moor that was leaning against the
wall and wait there while she went up and found out whether he could not stay where he was
home, Almudena said: "No you bandon me, Amri.

- Are you mad? "Forsake me now that you are unwell, and the two walk as the doldrums? Do not
think such nonsense, and Stay there. I will put you over there at the entrance of the street
Lett.

- Would not you n'gañar me? "Golven you ready?

- In seguidita see what happens over, and if you are in a good temper
my Doña Paca.

"

Nina climbed out of breath, and with great anxiety rang the bell. First surprise: he opened the
door an unknown woman, young woman, of tipitos elegant, very clean with her apron. Benina
thought he was dreaming. Surely the devil had taken up the house to weight bear her, leaving
in place one that looked the same and very different. Entered the fugitive without ask, with no
little astonishment of Daniela, who at first did not know. But what they meant, what they
were, where they came from those gardens, which were as precious Mall shrubs from the door, all
along the corridor? Benina rubbed his eyes, thinking found even under the action of the stupid drowsiness
del Pardo in the fetid and stifling blocks. No, no that was not home, could not be, and confirmed
the emergence of another unknown figure, as a cook fine on straight, haughty countenance ...
And looking the dining room, whose door at the end of the hall opened, saw ... Good God, how
wonderful, what else ...! Was it dream? No, no, that it was safe to see with our bodily eyes. Top
the table, but not touching her, as if suspended in the air, there were plenty of precious stones with
different brightness, lights and shades, ingrown nails, others blue or green. Jesus, what beautiful!
Do Doña Paca, smarter than her, had made the spell of the king Samdai, requesting and obtaining
from him the truckloads of diamonds and sapphires? Before I could understand that whosoever glass sparkle
came from the flaps of the lamp room, illuminated by a candle that had just lit Doña Paca to review
the knives of the house Juliana bring loans had appeared at the door of this room, and cutting
happened to poor old said between laughing and tasteless:

- "Hello, Nina, are you here? Did you like now? We thought you had gone to Congo ... No passes
do not enter, stay there, we're going to get lost soil, washed this evening ... Bonita come! ...
Stand back those legs, woman, you stain the tiles ...

- Where's the lady? - Nina said, turning to look at the diamonds and
emeralds, and doubting and they were effective.

- The lady is here
... But he says no passes, it will come full of misery ...».

At that time appeared on the other hand Miss Obdulia, screaming: "Nina, welcome you are, but
before you get home, you have to fumigant and put in the wash ...
No, no I stand next to me.

So many days between poor filthy! ... See how nice is it? ".

Juliana moved towards her smiling, but through the smile, there was a glimpse Nina Edger authority
that was able to win there, and said: "This is now commands.

It is well known despotism. " In the arrogance with which benevolence coated he welcomed the
tyrant, said Nina would not leave without seeing his wife.

"Woman, go, go - he murmured from the back of the room, his voice choked by sobs Mrs. Dona Francisca
Juarez.

Staying at the door, a voice replied Benina whole "Here I am, ma'am, and as say staining the tiles,
do not want to spend, say no way ... Things have happened to me you do not want to tell you
not to grieve her ... They carried dam, have been hungry ... I have
suffered shame, abuse ... I kept thinking about the lady, and whether
they would also hunger, and if he would be helpless.

- No, no, Nina:
Since you been gone, look what happened! entered the lot at my house
... It seems a miracle, right? Do you remember what we talked aburriditas
in this solitude, ah! in those nights of misery and suffering