 "So you have a girlfriend?

- Well, what do you, Miss, I am to stick?

Understood: the largest pa mi chiquiya and the other Pá Mr. Pepe.

- Bye, and what we talked about earlier, not a word ... chitito.

- Current: God is with you, miss, and thanks.

She came into the hotel and disappeared behind the walls of a nearby corrals.

Paz knew more than I expected to find out.

The origin of civilizations of the conduct Pepe of her brother greatly upset, but what he did
in his thinking more bite, was knowing Pepe was working as a correction in print. The owner of
his will was something less than a clerk.

       For similar cause, Leocadia, the girl of humble, without hope of fortune,
was evasive with her boyfriend, Peace, however, then felt sympathy
towards her lover firm and calm, he had some respect.

As your different position tended to separate them, more she clung to her love.

* * * * *

An event not know Pateta and Pepe also ignored for some time, told by one Paz, could have added
to the chapter of faults made against Tirso: Leocadia breaking with Millan.

Spurned by her, he set eyes on another. There among the typesetters of printing a married two years
ago with a girl named Engracia, seamstress, very pretty, demure, sweet condition and worthy
of better treatment than he gave her husband. It was such a player, lazy, quarrelsome, but above
all, drunk, and with such bad wine, which his unfortunate companion could counting cups tiptoe
for her slaps and shoves were welcomed. Skimping food, pawning clothes, cheating in the pub and
again on Saturday at home with the wages diminished by the defect, were his main achievements,
in addition to looking at the poor girl with greater detachment. A married her stepmother Engracia,
lights up, which, as a public voice in the neighborhood, I had a cat, with purpose to shake
off, and she admitted the first compliments of typesetter to get out of power so bad Pecora. While
the waiter confided, and knew lights up keep you waiting, in which the wedding would provide
rooms, concealed his tricks, but verified marriage, free step-mother, Engracia subject and flicked
the boyfriend, he began to give bad girl's life. Fortunately, their brutality did not last long.
One night, closing the tavern had been drunk, the store owner threw a torniscones, and he he lay
on the sidewalk, without coat or hat. When he got home at dawn, coughing more than an asthmatic,
and died fifteen days in the hospital, leaving a child Engracia few months. His companions,
as all of this noble profession, that such cases are rare, had formed a society as a relief to
aid with the hard trance life and the mother agreed to give a widow a sum of money. Miller put
some of their Engracia pocket and sent word to go and pick up the total. Shortly thereafter,
with spirit to help her indirectly, and knowing what had been single his office, gave some clothing
fix, and now a trip of it to your home, visit it tomorrow to press, After a few weeks, as
this coincided with the marked deviation of Leocadia, began to notice Engracia, flirting between
rough and infatuation with a delicacy to it was not used. The beauty of the widow, her youth
homelessness and made Millán else. The woman said then every day more loving, middle half grateful
lover Instinctively he appreciated their care, perhaps looking at the contrast it makes with the
surly condition of your old girlfriend, and stocks were joined, forming a beautiful marriage of
misery and comfort blessed by love. What most captivated the hearts of Engracia was the gentleness
with which he treated his boy Millán.

Perhaps the tender affection of the mother was not Spontaneous Award fondling the child received.

All
this had no knowledge Pepe until much later, and neither did Pateta
when he spoke to Peace: so that it completely ignored.

XVIII

Doña Manuela was meanwhile meekly submitting to the influence of Tirso: character weak tilt accepted
it would give him, as would have tolerated any other. No until then said what his thinking was
to accept or reject, and was indifferent in religion to be around her, that to be fans in either
direction fuéralo she. Tirso was right before another to guide its docility, and the good woman
did not offer resistance because there was no fighting spirit or hint of contradiction between the beliefs
own advice and listened: the priest son did not have another plant to uproot plant in this wilderness;
enough to leave the seed fall Dona Manuela began to manifest devoted to the foreign religion
that conforms to preconceived formulas and prayers as stereotyped for generations to repeat them
unconsciously. The strange poetry of religion, composed of unintelligible mysteries, hopes and threats
tremendous ill-defined, seduced with extraordinary charm and instinctively reject the abstractions,
nor Tirso could explain it, willingly accepted what hurts the imagination. Not understand
no human perfection in the bosom of God, or wine that engenders virgins, or the Divorce of flesh
and spirit, or the mystic nuptials of the soul and the Lord, but instead the epic of passion,
told day by day, detail by detail, as seen up close, impressed. The tortures of the early martyrs,
the gentleness of the virgins, magic of miracles, it exerted influence similar to that which occurs
in children's heads the relationship of fairy tales, and admiration for all of this served to increase
generated devotions, who met more easily by decoding was something that meant. The mass, which initially
tried tired and long ceremony was soon to her representation what he suffered the son of God who
for our sins was given, and persists in body and blood as the price of human redemption, the
litany, before annoying strings of sentences I did not understand, become a matter of prayer
pleasing to his lips, sweet to the ears of those to whom they were addressed, the rosary, which he
considered useless string of repetitions, eventually by Augustus words seem greeting, a reminder
of the increased penalties and those who suffered Mother of the Saviour of the world. The interpretation
of certain symbols and surprise explained do not understand things as before, poured in his
soul a quiet satisfaction, a free enjoyment of selfishness, but that came to produce some excitement,
making experience self-indulgence that the weak brains, to discover something new to them, think they
have found what is truly extraordinary. The lives of the saints, its martyrs and miracles, that
Tirso used to read in the Christian Year, translated from P. Croisset, were for your imagination
and great novels of interest, and the relationship of those glorious pains and glorifying impregnated
seemed to him enchanting poetry. If the existence of which ran to martyrdom was something ridiculous
or absurd, she did not notice, willing and prepared by Tirso to perceive only the fragrance
of the virtues that those stories exhaled. Blessed Bernard of Corleone, who drank dishwater;
Santa Senorina, which imposed silence the frogs, James the Less, who kneel force raised in these
streets as camels, San Toribio Mogrobejo, swimming in alligators as he bathes with friends;
Santa Catalina de Sena, which once passed since the beginning of Lent to Ascension without more
food than the communion of Montepoliciano Santa Inés, which jumped seeing images of Christ in
the cradle of joy, and the Blessed Mary Anne of Jesus, who was sleeping naked on bundles of
thorns and brambles, were figures haloed disappearing to other admirable greatness virgin with breasts
cut about, girls who challenged the Roman magistrates, children cruelly persecuted and men offering
to God the spirit, gave the matter the pain, as loved one who yields to her lover.

Dona Manuela's piety was manifested by various symptoms. Began assiduously the church and cared
little to hide her husband and her youngest son in the transformation
it is operated.

One night, Peter came home earlier than usual, entered, cautiously opened with his key, not to wake
the repose and, hearing rumors of muffled voices, stopped to listen in the hallway he found
the dining room door ajar, and looked. Doña Manuela and Leocadia, completed and the rosary,
they were doing an act of atonement for faults of his own and others.

Tirso said sacrificial sentences and they answered to.

- For my sins, for my parents, brothers and friends, by the world,
forgiveness, Sir, - and they repeated:

- Sorry, sir.

- For the blasphemy,
desecration of holy days, sorry, Lord ...

- Sorry, sir.

- By disobedience
to the Holy Church, for violation of fasting.

- Sorry, sir.

- For
the crimes of the spouses, parents' negligence, for the faults of
the children.

- Sorry, sir.

- For the attacks on the Roman Pontiff.

-
Sorry, sir.

- For the persecutions raised against the bishops, priests,
religious and consecrated virgins.

- Sorry, sir.

- For the insult
to your images, the desecration of temples, the scorn of the Sacraments
and outrages the August Tabernacle.

- Sorry, sir.

- For press crimes
wicked and blasphemous, for the horrific machinations of dark sects.

-
Sorry, sir.

- Just for tonight - said Tirso rising .-- Tomorrow,
the rosary and paraphrase of a commandment.

- We have five, right?
- Asked Leocadia.

- Yes, am playing the sixth.

Entráronse then them, each in his room and stayed Tirso reading his
breviary.

Pepe waited to including women and then returned to the room, determined
to have a explanation for his brother.

The light, almost dying, its light seemed to deny that scene: Tirso,
hoping so Suddenly the attack, had a moment of weakness and rising
seat, wanted to shelter in his room: Pepe, extending her hand to him,
beckoned him to wait.

The low clearly reflected in the windows of the buffet and tables,
let's shadow angles of the room, behind the red curtains of the cabinet
door parents slept and down the hall, was the fourth of Leocadia:
around two brothers was all shadow and silence.

On the oilcloth that covered the table was the string of Tirso and
a booklet devotional reading, with tops curled and filthy.

- Speak
low - he began Pepe.

And the dialogue continued in dim statements, claiming, however, faces
all energy that lacked the expression of words.

He then continued:

- Entering've heard, without love, that you were praying, in that I do not go, but mom, on all more
worth the dejases bed on time.

What I beg is that tomorrow Leocadia commandment explain to anyone,
let alone the sixth.

- Why?

- Why not.

- That's not right.

- What
to say what you have to resist to understand?

I only ask that you refrain from explaining Leocadia, as you are
accustomed to do, ideas and concepts that should not be talking to
girls.

- Come and find a pretext to counteract the work of holy perfection
I have undertaken.

- This one did not need holiness: what more perfect
that the tranquility and peace?

- Then confess?

...

- Do not admit anything, I make a warning. A certain acts of devotion, silly but harmless I will
not resist. Since you force me to, I'll tell you: I think nonsense, so I'm not fit, is that
signs and repeat the girl that clarity and detachment with which
some of Books open your eyes to who's got closed, soiling the innocence
and awakening lame ideas on who never had one.

- How much blindness!

For the household goods carefully take away the dust every day: the soul Let that breeds may.

-
Do not give me Blessed melancholic phrases, or make me jokes that only callus consideration
to you. Imitate my motives scenes caution and not give us all feel.

- Do not tease me! Do you know my purpose?

- Untrue. Do not be provoked, but do not lose sight. I followed your step by step handling, and
nothing I have said, has begun to suck the brains mom, and I have
been silent, now you declare frankly that I will not have, for worshiping
God and his saints forget care my father, and not let you do those
disgusting descriptions Leo vice firing who lives impurity-free.

Talk to her in the sky all you want, but you persist to prepare his
mind to fight sins do not know, because it is not prudent to apply
remedies where there is disease, and, above all, for goodness' sake
in the world, do not disturb the peace of the house, do not go to
do here, in miniature, the role of those priests who go astray moving
war in the countryside.

- What they do is pursuing the enemies of
religion!

- Sympathetic to them, but I do not discuss it now accommodates.

Your Mom and Leo sing litanies, fervorines, joys, salves, the whole repertoire of heavenly music;
pray to mechanically repeat what I teach: only I beg you not devotion
under robe and affection for my father, and not lectured the girl
on things ignored.

- Did not flee the danger?

- How did you learn
to avoid it, if you have your eyes to the allure of the forbidden
by attraction, with the encouragement of curiosity guide and the sting
of age accomplice?

Kid yourself, Tirso, this is not time to try to convince each other,
but not be you should raise the malice who, like her, feels numb,
that his pulse did not Probably nobody suffocates.

- Fighting against
the flesh is a virtue.

- And not have to fight, nothing better than
virtue itself.
