 Arguably however, in this regard, that the
Jesuits were let go very far to the fans Moxos, submitting to the severe regime, reserved only for
the monastery. An immense amount of time was spent by these Indians in the exercise of church,
he often took communion, and the slightest lack religious lashed them to ask themselves as for
any ordinary crime [1]. Father Eguiluz speaking of Holy Week, said that all individuals, without
distinction of age, confessed and communicated. On Friday, while the sermon lasted passion, dábanse
all "many slapping and beating of breasts ... "" After ordering the procession through the square
and main streets carried on a litter package the image of Christ crucified, and in others of the Holy
Virgin, with more than two hundred lights, a big silence and composure do not hear a word, but
the whipping of a large number of penitents blood, dragging ropes and heavy sticks, and other
dresses of Nazareth, with crosses to the shoulders, singing the chorus of musicians the miserere
... "" Several church choirs sing lamentations, for the duration of penance and penitents, they
pass in front of the monument, and most recently bowing discipline to view the image of Christ
crucified [2]. "When a plague ensuing immediately they prayed a novena, accompanied by fasting
and other penances, then, - "every night there talk and act of contrition, and go along the bias to make
discipline, and if some for old, or by the novelty of the exercise, its given with little
force, angry listeners, and scold him to squeeze his hand [3]. "Thus, according to the state's
religious exaggeration Spain at that time, the Jesuits to most of the principles of sound morality
and religion Catholic imposed Moxos fans such corporal punishment, the reviled, removing not
a little to their human dignity.

They left the Jesuit Fathers meantime, since the said year 1696, to
carry out his conquests and taking advantage of fame, and highly publicized,
the well-being enjoyed by the Moxos Christians, formed on, San-Pedro
with Canichana, Santa-Ana with Moximas; Exaltation with Cayuvava,
San-Joaquin, Concepcion, Saint-Simon and Saint-Martin Baures and the
tribes, and finally, with Magdalena Itonama.

It seems, however, that the conversion of these savage nations was not made without cost the lives
of some religious [1]; but it never did weaken the evidence of the Jesuits, who persisted in their
purpose to submit the entire province.

In 1742, the Portuguese adventurers Saint-Paul, who occupied the province of Mato Grosso, made
his first expedition down the river or Guaporé Itenes. So it was when Manuel Lima, accompanied by five
Indians, three mulatto and black, in a canoe down the rivers Guaporé, Mamore, Madeira and Marañon
to the town of order [1].

Little more or less around the same time, calculating the Jesuits the importance of navigation
of rivers, had established the mission of Saint-Simon, Guaporé very immediate, and later, in
1743, the Santa-Rosa, in the same place where it is today Fort Beira
belonging to the Brazilian, ie on the right bank of the river Itenes,
but jealous the Portuguese of such an undertaking, espulsaron the
Jesuits in 1752 [2], under the pretext of that they were blocking
the way on their own property, and Don Antonio Rolin, to seize definitely
the domain of the river, he built the fortress there is today.

After all this, the first care of the monks was reinforcing the existence of missions, introducing
all possible improvements, to this end, Santa-Cruz trageron many cattle, encouraged local people
to farm work; perfected tected, already in practice among Baures, taught all kinds of handicrafts,
and multiplied religious ceremonies and to give them a range of pleasant rest to the workers. Enseñáronles
music and to play all the European instruments, taking also some
parts those used in the country before his arrival.

Created many jobs for the grant award of them, both good conduct, and industrial developments.