 Margarita is already all of Faust, Faust wants to be of God, and expresses its condolences
to see little religious. Faust quiets more fondly than reasons, and finally enters her appointment. Here
are details on which we dare not enforce decisions.

No doubt it is admirable the creative force of Goethe, so real that we are introduced to Margarita
and the surrounding art by such candor, which, notwithstanding all its faults, continues to
seem pure and innocent, as if he had in it an evil that steals numen responsibility and free
will. Love has been the work of love and not the devil, but in the direction it takes so beautiful passion,
and the devil is involved. No wonder God has made the same permission to try to Fausto, no wonder
he is bound to him. Crimes are needed; matter is born and is increasing the tragic terror, but
despite this, and although much has to be evil in history that such a role does the devil,
could not be excused the narcotics detail, given by his mother Margaret at night to unveil and not
surprised in the arms of his beloved? Although Margaret has the certainty that the drug will
not do evil to his mother, is not horrible yet to be given, and then have your hand in that dream
violent, death shadowing him while she enjoys with the man she loves? In all manner of sins are
the most and least. No missing women who tease their mothers and their husbands, but we are certain
that for every cent, just one that will not discard the use of narcotics. Even the most conscienceless
libertines figure we all means trouble before, and though will not find any, they will stop frightened
before proposing to her friends this way of numbing the mother or husband to have them then
peacefully. Moreover, Margarita, who was alone in the house of Martha, unscrupulous woman and that everything
is paid, what need was to infuse his mother sleep? We say that infanticide is worse, that infanticide
is the most heinous of crimes, but infanticide was necessary to motivate
the torture of Margarita, whose goodness is spared thanks to delirium.

Mad, throws his son into a pond, where they drowned, while his mother gives him the narcotics intentionally,
all over the clearing of his trial, and without the narcotic remove or put the argument or development
of the action. Is a refinement of realism mischief and sinful, and is entirely useless to spare. Dreadful
crime is also the death of Valentin given at close range by Faust, but it was inevitable, is
justified aesthetically. Also, here is forgive any defect in the poet, if he had, in favor of the
tough character and military honor, the brother of Margarita.

The pride and arrogance that inspired her, before his fall, the anger that causes the loss of his
honor, all he utters the words before and during the duel, and its terrible counterclaims to Margarita,
when moribund, all this is real and beautiful at the same time. Goethe in three or four pages,
set up a living, never erased from the mind of anyone.