 This could be this, that, not a man like Pepe Ghetto,
but the last farmhand put an eye on me with reasonable hope for, and I and would cede theirs,
not the daughter of a ruined marquis, but being a millionaire and princess. Unfortunately by that or
mine, or no of those beings with superior brands and qualities his class, which would, in
short, that men by nature are more equal what is believed, and that those items and qualities
are created by artifice, or, if such beings are not reserved for me, or I lack imagination to
pretend someone, but not exist, all those beauties they would fall in love. Thus, the energy of
love is in me to be asleep, but not dead. God forbid me to kill me in any power of which God
himself has given me. Sleep love in my breast. My reason serene and cold tap ensure that not
wake him but he should. But, my daughter, no one comes to wake, and I fear that his dream is
eternal.

- Come on, I'm sorry I said nonsense - said Dona Manolita -. What would ugly or bad you were you
and show you where it is to be none with titles awake enough to go to sleep that precious love?
Almost seems to me not just right, but you are obliged to do so. It is not fair that so much
beauty (care if you're nice!), it is not lawful for such distinction and elegance are buried here.
It is cruel to eat so cute love sleeping, age, and perhaps, perhaps, have the misfortune that is
moth-eaten wings. Sure there are a thousand suitors out there, these worlds, rendered fall at your
feet, if they see you. Sure to be one among them whom you should love. But guess how are you
here? Why did you play with them hide and seek?

- First, because, in order to find poetry, I have to start destroying
the poetry.

Love not to be sought, must appear, must stem from a providential. Wanted fortune are seeking
adventure, looking for business, and you said it was seeking placement, but love not searched. Besides,
where will I go not further away from my site, more isolated than Villafría? Where shall I
not be regarded as an adventurer? I'm almost out of all kinds social. My relatives humiliate me if I
go with them. If I were alone, say all and D. Acisclo, I was a cow without a cowbell. Marquise
could be and not what I am neither be, because it's ridiculous the title without the appropriate
income. Here, where everyone knows me, I Miss Dona Luz, the marquise, still retaining his ancestral
home, and has won the esteem and respect, because everyone knows his life for twelve years. For
those worlds I would be a somewhat mysterious Dona Luz, who each imagine a thousand horrors. Begin
for stating a truth, to invent and put on it and a half million lies. The truth would be that
I am the daughter of a marquis skull and broken, and one such Antonia Gutierrez, single and seamstress,
with whom my father had a love affair. Believe me I'm nowhere better than here although I never
fell in love and got married. Why not fall in love? Why love has to be always asleep? I am inclined
to believe that only one love, each for its purpose, but love is one, and if you change the
object does not change the love. If so, as I desire, my love wake up and employ all the beauty
of heaven, God has raised, in flowers, poetry, and who knows if even in science, because in
my tight brain Women's fit its great truths, his dark and fearful mystery problems.

- Nothing I answer you - "Dona Manolita -. I see much of what you say you're right; but you trust
me and make me see the deepest part of the soul, take me out of curiosity:
explain to me, if you can, certain things that I find very rare in
your life.

For improvident, by careless be thy father, for a few friends and relations had in the world,
is not had no one to leave you confident but D. Acisclo? "You yourself, having lived in Madrid until
the age of fourteen, not one friend left there? Is not there anyone left who care about you?

- Neglect and the foresight of my father could not be higher. Harto has proved his ruin; but also,
just that I, tying the broken memories of my childhood, I count my way to live in Madrid, to
understand that the best, perhaps the only thing that could make
my father was entrusted to me D. Acisclo.

Until I was five years, I lived in the house of a lady seemed fairly well off, and whose name was
Dona Francisca. I pondered afterwards if that lady was my real mother, but if you treat me well
and even with care and gifts, known or should have known, judging by the confused I remember
that I was weird. I was at home please. I was not married. Often went to visit a handsome gentleman,
friend of my father. My father would see me, sometimes alone, sometimes with the gentleman.
Mrs. died and then my father took me with him to his house, and I no longer trusted anyone.
A few months of being with my father, where I watched an old maid, the nurse came from England
my dad ordered for me and that was with me until a few days before my father and I we came to Villafría.

Doña
Manolita, it was the best girl in the world and he loved and admired Dona Luz, pleased with
the confidence that made him, and very curious to know everything, listened without flinching,
sitting in front of her friend.

It continued:

- My nanny was the duty personified, but as a duty, no heat, no enthusiasm and no affection. I'm almost
to assert that I never kissed, never gave me a caress.

Instead, I taught As she knew, and my father considered a precocious
prodigy, like a wise little girl.

The life of my father, but then I did not understand, I understand
now that was disipadísima, and the complete opposite as exemplary.

Playing, courting, was away from home until three or four o'clock. I was like a refuge, as a means
of purification, as their comfort saint in times of gloom and sadness. I called his room, and
now alone with me tenderness told me, kissed me and cried at times. Since I was so young, and could
not figure out me or try to learn from him the cause of their grief.

Several times I did also go to his room in time that he was not alone,
but with a beautiful and elegant woman, though dressed carelessly,
and this woman I held in beautiful and funny, and made me a thousand
caresses.

- That woman would be your mother - Donna Manolita interrupted.

-
That would have thought me too - went Dona Luz - if that woman had
always been the same, but were varied.

All are modest people, were there with some mystery, and the nurse never saw them. A biggie
when I myself, when I was nine years, never again my father to teach me any of those women
who, by the impression I left, it I figured that had to be ladies
and not vulgar.

My father was a gallant knight much liked the ladies.

I inferred then nothing of this, but later I inferred unlikelihood that I really was a daughter
of Antonia Gutierrez, a seamstress. Could not my father have sought to legitimize the false mother,
without compromising a lady? Even in my father's life, despite my young age, ever thought this,
but I never dared, or indirectly, to ask anything from my father on the subject. He dodged
the conversation, if by chance fell upon my supposed or real mother Antonia Gutiérrez. After
death, and after I met twenty years, I searched hard to give me something light among his papers.
He tore all the cards of some interest, because it was neglected and afraid to leave them anywhere
and laws. What I have found, therefore, was negligible: or a picture or a word written. Only
on his very body was found this medallion gold, not encrypt or sign.

Luz took from her bosom the medallion of the speaker.

- Since then took the medallion in my breast, as my father's memory. Inside look (and opening,
Dona taught Manolita content), look through this glass, there is a lock of hair blonde even than mine.
Is Antonia Gutierrez will be of any other woman who was my mother, or will some love with my
father, that has nothing to do with me?

Who is to know?

The two old servants are ready to retain both, but both came at home place long after my birth, and
know nothing fixed. Juana came to serve as I had ten years. Three years after Thomas took the
help of my father's camera.

- Did not know of any unique set of life of the Marquis - asked Dona Manolita - by which clarify
some of the mystery of your birth?

- There are, indeed, in the life of my father a singular set; launch occurred two years I have
been born, but set so mysterious that he not elaborate.

May or may not have that set a relationship with the guilt that I have to be.

- What was that set, if I can know?

- My father received one morning a visit, whom nobody saw it because my father opened the door.
The servants could not miss this. He used to receive visitors as well, opening himself and enclosing
them. That morning, half an hour of receiving the visit, called from my father's room with strong
bell. The bedroom door was open. The visit had gone. And the servants found on the carpet a
bloody sword, and also my father lying with another sword wielded, and chest pierced by a wound
mortal. They say it was a miracle of science that is rid of death. Never could find whom, or
why he had hurt. My father was always confined to say would not seek to blame, that the wound had been
fair and square. Rare mourning, indeed, without sponsors, without witnesses, without anyone who has
ever known him, but this painful outcome.

- All this makes me presume - said Dona Manolita - you're the daughter
of a great lady.

- I do not know - said Dona Luz -.

Legally I am the daughter of Antonia Gutierrez, free when he joined with my father. It is better
that life must adultery. Ah! better is that my father I have revealed nothing. How could I
have dishonored my mind clean, fifteen years, impurities and crime? Tired and my mind was troubled
with the shameful disaster Madrid before taking refuge in this place. Had to sell the furniture
that we had to end there payable to usurers and creditors. My father came here humiliated and
melancholy, and soon died. Who wanted that I had returned to Madrid? What role would do in Madrid
the bastard ruined and marquise? The best I could do is what I did, stay here forever.

Thus Dona Luz confided all his secrets to the doctor's daughter.

The friendship of two young women narrowed since then, and beyond it all trusted.

The marriage of Donna Manolita did for the post. A month after giving his side friend was already
married.

His prediction that his marriage did not cool the friendship with Dona Luz was fulfilled to
the letter. Doña Manolita was a great prophet.

Also served as compared with Pepe Güeto she had predicted. Nor was there rod wicker, and she came
over in sewing when I was single, but instead, Pepe Güeto laughed like crazy, especially with
his wife's jokes, which made him very much, and with their laughter
they had for him a lot of pleasantly contagious.

For Dona Luz months passed between both, no other news that the alternate
and regular exchange stations.

Spent the spring, spent the summer and until the month of October,
station vintage.

Something very important would have to say D. Acisclo Dona Luz, when
one morning, having now harvested, came to see her and speak not less
morning that Dona had come Manolita months earlier.

E Villafría reached late at night and handed out at dawn.

Don Acisclo open and brought a letter in his hand, shook with cheers and expressions of satisfaction
and joy.

-VII-

Father Henry

- What? What does that letter? What pleasant news in it? D. Acisclo, have you fallen V. the
lottery? - asked Dona Luz.

- Better than that, my dear, better than that - said the questioning -. Read and find yourself
- and delivered the letter to Dona Luz.

This, before reading, he met the letter and saw the sign that said,
"Enrique."

He was a nephew son of a sister D. Acisclo had, which was a Dominican
friar nephew, resident in the Philippines.

Almost all those who deny it rich perhaps, fortune, fate or luck, they will names seem futile,
behind which hides the sloth, waste, clutter and foolishness. From here to be taken by people wiser,
more reasonable wittiest and wisest of the earth.

And can they about right. I do not deny nor affirmed. I only say that D. Acisclo was. I was very
happy of himself and imagined had no merit higher than yours. All other glory seemed to him less
and less carats. However, a glory to something supernatural and otherworldly, if not in means
in the end, and acquired by member of his family, did not seem to
D. Short Acisclo not assert, and such was the glory of his nephew
Fr Enrique; glory that is somewhat reflected on him and the whole
family.

Was almost a couple of the money acquired ring nobility to his house.

Don Acisclo idolized, then Fr Henry, and spoke of him with complacent boasting, saying:

- Here we serve for all, the same for a scrub that sweep, I wanted
to be a millionaire and I am, Henry gave the sanctity and still we
have to look at the altars -.

To demonstrate and the probable fulfillment of his prediction, D. Often referred Acisclo adventures
Fr Henry: so that Dona Luz known and regarded him as a friend, even though it was about twenty
years he was missing the place and Europe.

All this time I had lived only in Manila. He had been in various lands of the Gentiles, spreading
the light of the Gospel, had spent only credible work, had braved severe hazards, and even had twice
been close to reaching such a cruel death and glorious not life saving but after suffering
prolonged martyrdom.

Referred to these stories by D. Acisclo, it must be confessed, appeared grotesque in details.
For this, the P. Henry wrote to his uncle three or four times a year, and Uncle delighted that
Dona Luz you read the letters aloud.

Well known that Dona Luz P. Henry, more to be brave to heroism, and enthusiastic and earnest
in all acts and apostolic mission was clear the subject of singular
wit and discretion and prudence.

His physique was far from corresponding to their spiritual vigor,
and, while not was even forty years, and in his last letters complained
of broken-sweet his health, which prevented him from working in companies
engaged, and something bothered him in his studies.

Newcomer's letter was very short and brought date of Cadiz. Luz read, and read:

"My dear Uncle: My woes were aggravated to such an extent in Manila, the doctors decided I should
come to Europe to spend a long time.

With the air of the claimed native I replenished. My colleagues threw me out of there: the
same Archbishop sent me I came. There was therefore no choice.

I left Manila and, thank God, I did a happy navigation. Have I been three days in Cadiz, much
stronger now. The day after tomorrow I leave here in the railway to that town. Loving Expressions
to cousins, friends and other relatives, and his hostess V. Miss Dona Luz. He wants to V. a
lot and want embrace, her affectionate nephew. "

Such was the cause of the joy of D. Acisclo nephew was going to hug
the saint, went to live with he would have the pleasure of lucirle
in place.

Luz immediately wanted to move into your house and leave your room in the house of D. Acisclo
to the father should dwell in it.
Acisclo Don said:

- None of that, my daughter. You for anything
you leave my home to live alone in that big house. Moreover, such
a move would precipitate a disorder. I have my plan, and with your
permission, we will perform. I know that Henry loves solitude for
their studies and meditations. Lets go to live in your home. At a
time when there will arrange suitable room. Your house is nearby.
We'll go take care if you fall sick in bed, and when not, he will
come to lunch to eat and chat with us every day.

Luz insisted on
going home, but D. Acisclo remained opposed, and it was necessary
to Dona Luz yield, offering gustosísima your home so that she lived
the Father.

The railroad station is two very long Villafría leagues,
and D. Acisclo available to go aside all the relatives and friends
to receive the Father with great pomp. Indeed, no vehicle left that
were not available. Used three carriages, a trap, property D. Acisclo,
and two cars. Issue were children, sons, daughters, daughters and
grandsons D. Acisclo, priest, physician, Doña Luz, Doña Güeto Manolita
and Pepe, and several other people. Those who do not fit into the
wheeled vehicles were horse or donkey.

Fr Enrique arrived safely
and was greeted with cheers by the mob, on the platform of the station.

The
place was a triumph entry.

For all the cousins ??came bearing gifts:
for them pure Filipinos in abundance for them, or embroidered shawls,
called in my country of mousse and Manila in Madrid, or fans of the
most exquisite chinoiserie