 

Fifty novice in the abbey had continued. And all, except in the hours devoted a chivalrous
exercises, wearing the habit of the order.

In an April afternoon, finished the run, novices out of the choir, which had been singing psalms,
and were, as usual, to spend two hours of playing pleasure a large
courtyard.

There was a novice of obscure origin, which was contrary to the high nobility who boasted rightly
most of the others. This novice was Spanish.

Six years ago he had come to take refuge in the convent out of nowhere. The charitable abbot
gave him asylum, and he, with his deep humility, with its consistent application, with the
rare intelligence deployed in the study and the strength and agility he displayed in all physical
exercises, won the will of the venerable servant of God, who loved
him as a child and he naively admired.

From here you have the envy of other novices and especially the French. Tratábanle with disdain,
made him a thousand taunts and even insults directed at her, that he was suffering with resignation
evangelical. This is why he called plaque.

At that time the envy of the other novices had reached its height. Placido had to achieve brilliant
success. Had made a devout and inspired Latin hymn to the Blessed Virgin Mary, so full of
beauty and so rich in mystical love, which excited the monks, had sung in the choir, giving the
young poet a thousand praises and blessings.

His bad fellow, eager to humiliate him, and perhaps trusting that Placido was peaceful and suffered,
they confronted him, but he withdrew them with gentleness and modesty, and reached two of the
most insolent to the last extremity of the injury.

Recalling the dark its origin, cast in face and called her mother the most infamous way.

The lamb then became suddenly brave lion. For that, he had no weapons, but earned her fists. With
accurate and blow knocked to the ground, battered and with his mouth
bleeding, the first thing he had offended.

Then he just kept fighting against other three or four, leaning against the wall and harassed by
them.

It was so fast that nobody had come to intervene and restore peace
when other novices of noble French ancestry, participated in the contest,
saying:

- It is cowardice that you go so many against him depart,
Leave them to me alone, I will chasten him as deserves.

It was so compelling voice was so impressive the gesture of the boy,
who turned aside all forming wide circle around him.

French then came on plates, which stopped the blows dealt him, without
receiving none, and girded him with terrible force in his sinewy arms.

Astonishing
was the fight. Both remained strong. No let up or fell. Have in fashion
two bronze statues, if he had not felt the panting of the tired breath
fighters and if he had not been running and the sweat on his cheeks
burning.

Who knows how that battle was over! Mal was over, no doubt,
had it not abbot abruptly and gets to the point apart