 A spy subjected to military justice was accused of having worked in the
supply of German submarines.

- How about that, Captain? ...

Ulysses hesitated, watching the ocean serious face framed by a gray beard. This man inspired
confidence. Could respond negatively to such questions, it would be difficult German prove his allegations,
but chose to tell the truth, with the simplicity of that no attempt
to disguise his guilt, describing as it had been awkward blind passion,
dragged by the artifices of an adventurous love.

- Women!

... Ah, women! - Murmured the French commander with a melancholy smile, as a judge who does
not lose sight of human weakness and has participated in them.

However, the offense was important Ferragut. Had helped the implementation of attack submarine
in the Mediterranean ... But when the Spanish captain had been told how it one of the first victims,
how his son had died in the torpedoing of the Californian, the judge
seemed unmoved, looking with eyes less severe.

Then recounted his meeting with the spy in the port of Marseilles.

- I have sworn - he finally said - to dedicate my ship and my life
to cause all the damage they can to the murderers of my son ... I
claim this man for revenge.

I recognize that my love Blindness dragged me to a crime I will never forget. I'm fairly punished
with the death of my son ... but no matter: that men also sentence me.

The head was in deep thought with his head in one hand and his elbow on the table. Ferragut knew
military justice, prompt, intuitive, passionate, attentive to feelings
just have value in other courts, judging by the movements of consciousness
rather than the letter of the law, and capable of shooting a man with
the same promptness that used to release him.

When the judge's eyes turned to look at him, had a warm light. Had been guilty not for money or
for treason, but a woman mad. Who has not had in its history something like that? ... "Ah,
women!"

Repeated the Frenchman, as though the most terrible lament of slavery ... But rather sorry he
had suffered the loss of his son. In addition, to him they owed the discovery and arrest of
an important spy.

- Hand, Captain - finally said, as he held out his right hand -. Everything we've talked lies
between the two: it's like a confession.

I shall take it to the council of war ... Follow you provide your services to our cause.

And Ferragut saw no more troubled by the issue of Marseille. Maybe you watched quietly and not
lost sight until fully convinced of his innocence. But this surveillance sensed he never felt
rushed nor discomfort.

In the third journey to Salonika, the captain saw him once from afar, greeting him with grave
smile. And knew no more of the spy.

In return, the Mare Nostrum in Barcelona anchored to charge for the
Serbian army cloth and other industrial goods needed by the troops
of the East.

This trip did not Ferragut by the profit motive. Emotional interest pulled him ... Needed to see
a tape, feeling in his soul sprouting the past.

The image of the wife came in his memory alive and attractive, as in the early days of their marriage.
It was a resurrection of the old love: it was impossible ... But remorse is made her look idealized
by distance, with all its qualities as a woman sweet and modest, and the continuing memory was
taking the form of an amorous desire.

I wanted to restore the cordial relations of the past, be forgiven all the past; she did not look
at him with hatred, believing responsible for the death of his son.

In fact it was the only woman who had loved him sincerely, as she could love, soft landing and exaggerations
of passion, the tranquility of a partner.

The other did not exist. Were a troop of shades that hardly marked in his memory as colorblind spectra
of visible contour, but without color. As to the latter, that Freya had the misfortune since
before its passage ... I hated how the captain! I wanted to meet her restore some of the damage
he had done! ...

On seeing his wife, Ulysses fancied that he had not elapsed. He found the same thing that starting
with the two nieces sitting at his feet, making endless lace subtle on the cylindrical mattress
leaning on their knees.

The only new arrival of the captain to the house of monastic quiet was that Don Pedro abstained
from your visit.

Tape welcomed her husband with a pale smile.

This smile could be glimpsed in the work of time. I kept thinking of his son at all hours,
but with a resignation that dried her tears and allowed him to continue the slow mechanism of
its existence.

Also wanted to erase their bad words, inspired by the pain: the memory of that scene of rebellion
that had raised as an angry prosecution against the father. And Ferragut, for a few days, thought live
the same as years ago when he had not yet bought the mare nostrum, and planning to stay ground
forever. Tape attending him and obeyed as it should a Christian wife. His words and actions reveal
a desire to forget, be nice.

But something was missing that had made sweet the past. Ulysses, impetuous man, unable to sanity
next to a woman, won in the evening, the exercise of their rights.

A sense of sadness and shame was the forced end of his touch.

His wife came out of them as of an ordeal: resigned because his duty required it, but with
a wave of revulsion bad concealed.

The warmth of his youth could not be resurrected. The memory of the child is embedded between
the two, leaving only in thought for a short voluptuous desire ... So would forever!

He returned to wait with impatience for the time away from Barcelona. In fact, the house and was
not his.

As much as the wife would strive always stand between both the irremediable past. His fate was
to live on a ship, spend the rest of his days on the waves, as Damn Captain Dutch legend, until
came to redeem a pale virgin shrouded in black veils: death.

As the vapor leaving office walked around town, visiting her cousins ??manufacturers or remain
as an unemployed, in the cafes. Tried his current human Las Ramblas, where the children were
confused and picturesque country and disparate with contributions
by war.

Ferragut first thing he noticed was the visible decline of German refugees.

Months earlier had found everywhere, filling the hotels, seizing the cafes in the streets flaunting
their green hats and open-necked shirts, they were to be recognized
immediately.

The Germans, with colorful costumes and outrageous, is to be kissed, shouted and screamed. The
Germanic language, Catalan and confused with Castilian, seemed to belong to the country. In the
mountain roads and rows were guys went bare-chested, bare-headed, stick in hand and a backpack alpine
to the back, entertain your leisure with pleasure trips were perhaps at the same time of foresight
study.

All of them came from the other hemisphere. Were Germans in America, especially Brazil, Argentina and
Chile, which had sought to return to his country in the first moments
war, becoming isolated in Barcelona, ??unable to continue his journey,
for fear of cruises French and English who were guarding the Mediterranean.

At

first no one had wanted to worry about installation in this strange land. All thronged to the view
of the sea, hoping to be the first to embark soon was opened for them the way of navigation.

The
war was going to be very short, very short! The Kaiser and his irresistible armies needed only
six months to enforce the law to all Europe. Germanic families enriched by trade had stayed in
hotels. The poor people working in the New World as agriculturists or shop clerks are quartered
in a slaughterhouse on the outskirts. Some who were musicians had acquired old instruments
and were wandering street musicians, begging alms with roars from town to town.

But the months passed, the war dragged on, and no one could descry his term. Each was a growing number
of those taking up arms against imperialism medieval Berlin. And the German refugees, finally convinced
that the wait would be long, were scattered the interior of the country, seeking a wider and
cheaper there.

Those who lived luxury hotels were about to settle in "villas" and the surrounding houses, the poor,
tired Ranch slaughterhouse, were attached to work on public works from the inside.

There were still many in Barcelona, ??meeting in some breweries to
read newspapers from their homeland and speak darkly of the work of
war.

Ferragut recognized them immediately to find them on the Rambla. Merchants were established
long years in the country, which boasted of Catalans with the ease
of adaptation liar of his race.

Others came from America and were linked with Barcelona by Freemasonry trade and patriotic
interest. But they were all Germans, and that was enough for the captain immediately remembered her
son, imagining bloody revenge. Wanted sometimes have on your arm the blind forces of nature
to remove at one stroke to these enemies. It bothered her to see them installed on their land,
having to pass them daily, without protest and without aggression,
respecting them because the law demanded it.

Liked in the mornings to run on the Rambla to the positions of the
flower.

Could walk between two walls that kept fresh flowers still in their petals the morning dew. Each
iron table was a pyramid with all the tints of the iris and all the fragrances can develop
the land.

Began the good season.

The ancient trees of the Rambla is covered with leaves, and its fronds Thousands of birds were
screaming infant with the tenacity of the cicadas deafening, chasing
trunk in the trunk, dropping on the crowd that ran below the almost
forgotten fluid from his loose bowels.

The captain, looking at the ladies with a blanket that came in search
of a bunch, I fancied the scent of her flesh fresh from morning sleep
and refreshed by this garden setting.

In Ferragut, the desire of women predominated over all emotions.

No situation, by distressing it was, left him insensitive to the attractive female.

One morning, moving slowly through the crowd, he noticed that he was a woman. Several sometimes
cut him off smiling, looking for a pretext to start a conversation. Such insistence could not
boast. It was a female in her forties, prominent chest and legs loose, a Cook with the basket on his
arm, like many others who passed through the Rambla de las Flores
to join a branch to the daily grocery shopping.

Realizing that the ocean was not moved with their smiles and looks of your eyes clear, stood before
him, speaking in Catalan.

- Is it you, and forgive, a sea captain who is called Mr. Ulysses? ...

Conversation ensued. The cook, convinced that he was, went on with
smiling mystery.

A very beautiful lady wanted to see him ... And he gave the signs of a "tower" located at the
foot of Tibidabo, on a newly built neighborhood.

Could make your visit to the three p.m..

- Come, sir - he added with a look of sweet promise -. You will not regret the trip.

All questions were useless. The woman refused to say more. All he could glimpse in his evasiveness
was that the person who sent it had spread to see the captain.

When the messenger was away wished to follow, but the fat godmother
repeatedly returned head.

His cunning was used to evade persecution, and without Ferragut could be account of how his death
was, slipped between the groups near the Plaza Catalunya.

"Do not go," was the first thing that Odysseus said to be alone.

I knew what it meant to this invitation. He recalled a number of ancient and unspeakable friends
I had in Barcelona: women who had met at other times, including two trips without any passion
for his eager curiosity hobo news. Perhaps one of them I had seen on the Rambla, sent to this intermediate
to resume old relationships.

The captain should enjoy a reputation for rich, now everyone would
comment on the formidable business done by the owners of ships.

"Do not go," he again said with energy. Considered an unnecessary inconvenience to go to this
interview mercenary to find the smile of a familiar face and forgotten.

But the insistence of memory and the same tenacity with which he repeated
his pledge not to go his appointment began to be suspected Ferragut
could well be that it was to her.

After lunch his will faltered. I did not know what to do during the afternoon. His only distraction
was to visit his cousins ??in their desks or walking along the Rambla.

Why not go? ... Such Once he was wrong, and the interview was interesting.

Anyway, had recourse to retire after a brief conversation about the
past ... His curiosity was aroused by the mystery.

And at three in the later took a tram, which led to the new neighborhood is to walk Tibidabo.

The merchant class had covered these areas with an architectural flowering
daughter legitimate fantasy.

Shopkeepers and manufacturers wanted a house of pleasure - called "tower" traditionally - to
rest on Sundays and at the same time flaunt their prosperity. He had Gothic, Arabic, Greek and
Persian. The most patriotic inspiration to be trusted certain architects who had invented
a Catalan art, with warheads, battlements and crowns of count. These medieval crowns, which were
repeated up to the tops of the lamps, was the eternal subject of
an industrial city decorative little given to dreams and harsh for
profit.

Ferragut walked down an empty street between two rows of fresh trees
transplant, began to give his first lug.

I looked at the facade of the "towers" made of blocks cement imitating
the old stone forts, or with tiles depicting landscapes dreamy, silly
flowers, blue nymphs.

When leaving the tram had adopted a resolution. Just wanted to see the house outside. Maybe this
will help you discover who the woman. Then go ahead.

But on arriving at the "tower" whose number stored in his memory and
stop a few seconds before derrick its feudal architecture, which was
present a similar interior to the halls of the breweries, saw that
the door opened, she appeared in the same woman who had spoken in
the Rambla de las Flores.

- Between you, captain.

And the captain could not resist the mischievous eyes and smile terceril of the cook.

It was seen in a sort of similar to the front hall, with alabaster imitation Gothic fireplace oak,
large porcelain jars, pipes, rods and size of old weapons decorating
walls.

Several pictures of modern paintings playing with these alternating
Munich ornaments.

Opposite the fireplace, William II sported one of the innumerable uniform among rutilancias splendid
golden frame.

The house seemed deserted. Thick curtains, soft carpets, devouring all the noise. Gone was
the heavy introducer with the lightness of an immaterial being, and swallowed the wall. The
ocean began to feel uneasy in this loneliness that seemed hostile,
looking staring at the portrait of the Kaiser ... And he was not carrying
weapons!

Resubmitted the smiling woman with the same silent slip.

- Come in, Mr. Ulysses.

Had opened a door, and Ferragut, going forward, felt that this door closed behind him.

The first thing he saw was a window, wider than tall, with stained glass. A Valkyrie it galloped, his spear
held high and her hair floating on a black horse expelling fire from
their nostrils.

A diffuse light discerned glazed wall tapestries and Deep floral couch cushions.

A woman emerged from the sunken fluffiness of the bed, jumping with arms Ferragut His drive was
extended so violent that he hits the captain's chest. Before that the female embrace shut on
him, he saw a sighing mouth, teeth hungry; watery eyes with emotion, a smile was a grimace,
a mixture of love and concern painful.

- You! ... You! - He stammered, backing away.

Legs trembled with
the thrill of surprise, a cold wave ran his back.

- Ulises! - Sighed
the woman, trying to cover it again with his arms.

- You! ... You!
- Returned to repeat the ocean in a hollow voice.

It was Freya.

Certainly
did not know what mysterious force dictated his gesture. It was perhaps
the voice of the good tips, speaking in his brain at critical moments
and now he had lost his sanity ... Instantly saw the sea, a ship that
exploded and shattered his son.

- Ah ... this!

Strong arm raised
with clenched fist as a club. The voice of caution was giving orders:
"Hard! ... None of punches. This female is a gun. "And as if hit the
enemy was a man, without hesitation, without mercy, focusing on the
fist all his soul.

His hatred and the memory of Germany's aggressive
media made him start a second blow, fearing an attack from it, trying
to avert it before they undertake ... But his arm was raised.

- Ah
...

The woman had thrown a child moaning, swaying, turning on his
feet, arms Throughout the body, without any attempt at defense ...
It was from one side to another, as well as if you were drunk. His
knees buckled and fell with the softness of a package of clothes,
colliding head first with the drive arm of a place of oak, going after,
rebound, to rest on the cushions of the couch. The rest of the body
was like a rag on the carpet.

There was a long silence, interrupted
from time to time by groans of pain. Freya moaning eyes closed, without
departing from its inertia.

The sailor, scowling, wrinkled with rage,
with tragic ugliness, remained motionless, staring grimly female to
fall. I was satisfied with his brutality, was a timely relief, breathing
better. At the same time I felt shame. "What have you done, cowardly
?...» For the first time in its existence had hit a woman.

His right
hand was sore to the eye level. One of his fingers bled. Maybe had
caught on her earrings, perhaps he had torn a lost pin on his chest.
He sucked the blood of the deep scratch and then forget this wound
to continue watching the body lying at his feet.

Little by little
accustomed to the dim light of the room. Saw and all objects clearly.
Freya covered his eyes with a look that blended the hatred and remorse.

The
head, buried in the pad, had a painful profile. She seemed much older,
as if his age would have doubled with tears. The brutal coup had done
away with funeral flapping its wonderful freshness and youth. His
eyes were half open an aura of momentary wrinkles, the nose had taken
the pale edging of the dying. The hull of her hair, broken under the
punch, spread on brown and wavy meshes. Something black forming snaking
tendrils of silk cushion