 

Our Lord, & c.

XV.

At the same, on the output of the Assumption.

His Excellency Sir, -

Ut supra.

This Mr. Governor Mayor has copied me Excellency, that the outfit ordered of these items to their
destinations. According to the orders he has given, and the instances I to my Minister of Finance, I
hope out of this by 1. º the next, and arrive at Curuguatí in a month.

True, all rushing, not what is considered we need: a lot less than
silver, for that the Governor does not give us only 4000 pesos, when
salaries six months amounted to 14.000 pesos.

But at the time of the conference may go getting ready, because it
is believable that when the Portuguese village have applied for point
Curuguatí the reunion, come with the intention of soliciting many
answers, which will seek to reduce to expedients interim, as mandated
by the treaty, in order to shorten the time and expense.

Our Lord, & c.

XVI.

At the same, on the journey to Curuguatí.

Exmo. Sir, -

San Joaquin, May 29, 1791.

A few days ago I'm in this town, distant 20 leagues from the town
of Curuguatí, waiting to prepare the way for tread it, but as the
Portuguese do not appear, nor do I think come to this village for
many days, because the river Igatimí have to navigate is very little
water, I continue my journey to pause, because the same is expected
here in Curuguatí, and animals descanzando.

Our Lord, & c.

XVII.

At the same, on the demarcation.

Exmo. Sir, -

Curuguatí, June 20, 1791.

I received the Excellency of 13 of the
past, with a copy of which VE wrote to Viceroy Lord of Brazil, March
10, 1790. Both impose my ideas of VE and chief portuguese although
opposed to each other, are not in line with my thinking, I need to
say the love of the fatherland and to justice, and the use of the
third division chief of markers: much more, as my ward, in my view,
the most serious business that can occur in vireynato. And I can not
say many things very serious in a few words, I beg VE dilated hide
what this letter.

The Excellent. D. Juan Jose de Vertiz, after receiving
the last treaty of limits, it was reported sugeto the most educated,
who was the Brigadier D. Jose Custodio de Saa and Faria, who said,
I could not be verified Article 9, because there were no rivers with
the name of Igurey and Corrientes are the limits laid down in that
article