 With the tough one who until then had been Tona! Geez, what kind yours! Thinking
that is the envy Chisco I remembered the discovery made by me Toper house in the heart of
Tanasi and Fuila with the story of Robacio the monsoon in a besides I had with him. I replied
that I had taken a job well idle, although I thanked him very much.

- Things - ended in the judgmental tone that was peculiar to him - pa shoot well, they jancia
roll with himself unu.

The man was the calmness and equanimity in the flesh, and the same
pulse Bear in front of him in his cave, which the warmth of the bride.

On behalf of my uncle, I often walked in the kitchen rather than do the honors the gathering,
to prevent him pundits will invade the bedroom. He loved; but could not bear on the plight of
body and spirit in which was. Thus, even without the doctor's strict
prohibition would not have wanted to receive any of them during the
day.

When they were saying goodbye to everyone, would be different.

Late Don Sabas and Neluco arrived: the first determined to stay there, without being notice the
sick, please you have asked me if he had not anticipated offer me; the second to find out the
state of affairs before retiring. As such Things did not offer new or alarming aspect, said goodbye
to my uncle, and those with him we stayed at the house, and went with the last commentators,
one of whom was Pete, encountered with people, benches, doors and
partitions, pure and foolish that aceleradote had given him the praise
and cuddles of Tona.

He spent the night better than we all expected, and the next day dawned without a cloud in heaven
or a puff of air on earth, and when the sun peaks transposed the East and greeted the valley
with its rays sparkled on the snow that had not broken the rain, my poor uncle sent them to
open wide the paneled his bedroom, as was not allowed to do the same with the doors and windows
to let in light and the air in the abundance that he needed to stay afloat in this sea of ??troubles
"that ajogaba him "because of the drawn mediquillo seemed determined to kill him. And indeed was
that if the body is not noticed anything more miracles of the panacea that so eagerly asked
the sick, was very large in spirit. It was "another man" from the sun had crept into his bedroom
and through the bars of a prison, and saw floating, dancing within the luminous band across the room
in front of his bed from the paneled window, the fluff and dust homeless. Not even the purpose of pointing
up, because they would not let the exhaustion of its forces, but believed in the possibility of
returning in the sun before they die, even sacándole in a basket to the laundry if it lasted
visage that while a few days.

And it lasted more than seven, and tuned in such terms and fixed the aging and confused my uncle's
machine so that, not in a basket, but rather sitting on the couch in cow your bedroom, well wrapped
and wrapped in blankets and coats, got be more than four "Bellyful of sun" outdoors in the warm
corner of the laundry, where I pulled him little unless in the air, the door of her bedroom,
between the storms of vows and oaths with protesting against "the
bitch acabación" that made him so miserable ends.

He had many visitors at that time, and the family of Don Pedro Nolasco they are made for tomorrow
and evening.

In it was the vejancón of Castañalera, fewer useful of speech and conversation issues, used
to break the long hiatus of silence downloads like this and two truncheons
on the ground:

- Go, go with the good Don Celso that we want to die
without more ado!

No, no, because like mine is worth, do not you come out with it. I swear that I am.

Lituca, if present, came to remove the impertinence with a joke rather forced that I alluded
to me that for the pious and the luck to finish off peacefully my uncle. And these and other
similar sets were the only side that was nice for me that picture of continuous and endless
sorrow, on which day was towering days and as the temperature tuning and there were cliffs
and slopes widths tear open the thick carpet of snow by the sun's rays, the figure, his melancholy
gray of women, particularly toward the late afternoon, and, above all, the pick up the cauldron
and grab the two jars of clay to go to the source between day and night immemorial custom depending
on it. As had become so visible to me this worsening the terrors of the poor woman, watched carefully
from a distance, so I could see test were terrible for those unfortunate moments: like a prisoner
of death walked to the gallows increasingly moving away from the cauldron cantaral overhead and
a 'stop' in each hand.

One of those trips back and shock that compassion was looking at her, and later that of usual.
It was known in his eyes that he had cried a lot, and walked all night through the house here and
there do not know anything with art. At times he was as alleles, and sometimes Rush felt a restlessness
that would not let her stop at anything. I saw it, without noticing it, more than twice, in the
twilight of Carrejo, worn with both despair hands to his head, and heard her invoke the same
time, his voice hoarse and poorly mastered, the "God of mercy became great 'and' Our Lady of the
Snows, the mother gracious and loving. " He wanted to die of early death, if the desire is
not sinned, before witness "of EYU" and stain the sight of his eyes such an embarrassment. I
feared for his reason; and moved by a feeling of pity, I got out to meet her. Not shocked the
me, as usual in such cases, on the contrary, seemed to calm down a little and revive my presence,
and even noticed it and wants to tell me something. Taken by reason, I spoke first to reassure
her, then to explore, to discover the breed even those trance mysteries so distressing that the
put.

- Not now! Not now - I said after some hesitation - and when it can not more ... when yield
load of me too, estonces! Estonces! ... Nah, you and only ... And Carida of God Don Marcelo,
who, today, do not let these ghosts ná just me, the Lord your uncle
... Naide or if be could!

...

Turned away from me with this and ran to lock herself in her room, returning me to my uncle seriously
worried and not knowing what to think of those strange things.

Nothing happened, fortunately, which would have required the presence of the unhappy woman in
any part of the house that night. Which should be very terrible for it, because I hardly I
had risen up out of bed the next day, and why so early as the sun appeared like a ghost in my
room after I asked permission to do half opening door carefully. Her eyes were sunken and surrounded
by an aura Cinderella; seemed that he had sucked the juice few witches face, on which fell by
under the handkerchief tied around his head, strands of gray hair
curled, she trembled dry lips, and out of his throat and a hoarse
voice squeaking.

Sank down knees before me and asked for all the saints in heaven who heard as confession.

- Because - I finally said, sobbing badly compressed and spasms throughout the body - I can not
hold the load, and it was time to rid of her or die debaju of eya.

I, first of all that is incorporated and to sit in a chair inside
the door shut the cabinet, I sat down I immediately next to the unhappy
woman, and I started to hear, as she wanted, after directing words
of sympathy and encouragement.

XXV

Two parties had the confession of Facia. At first I said everything I knew Chisco by mouth:
the story of his unhappy marriage with the rogue baratijero against the will and the wise warnings
of my uncle who was like his father and master. For desoírle, said the unhappy, had broken the
law of God, and for this failure had been the punishment for their misfortunes; she had suffered
misfortunes, but with many tears, without a single complaint. It was his duty. To drag the life
as a burden ofrentosa, that grief and pain were minándola and consumed by where no one would
notice it, his hair graying untimely and could not identify, to replace worn forces in the work
and musings day, the rest of the night, the tranquility of sleep they do not need to beggar
Hunger kills calling door to door and wandering from mountain to mountain, with a bag to paluco
back and a hand in what matter? Desconociéralo his daughter, was entered orphan of a parent
being honored, and this only gave great comfort and strength to carry the cross as a redemption
charge of their offenses, unforgivable in the afterlife without a hard penance in it. When, with
its sights set on this end, hesitated a little, because After all, was earth fragile and miserable,
and suspicious of their brightness and sailing to stumbling and fall, came under Don Sabas, and beyond,
to the gate of the confessional, in the deep of the church, to break the first dawn of day,
she, after kissing the dust regarle soil and with her tears, declaring their sorrows and infirmities,
and berating him and exhorting them with wisdom and gentleness of
a loving father to a very unhappy child, was always the lost strength
to continue suppression of Calvary with the load of his cross ...
So things were when I had come to Tablanca.

Ask why the great distress that the harrowed so then it had been searched other times, advice
and assistance of Don Sabas. He replied that they were very different cases each other, that
did not depend on his resignation or his courage in such anguish that the setting, and I was
the only living thing known of it, called to understand it before anyone else. Asombréme, cried
inconsolably, beat his head in his hands, bit fists clenched convulsively, turned to kneel on
the floor to ask forgiveness embraced to my knees, raised my amazement, I got to work to sit
down again, and the plot, for all the saints of the heavenly court,
to declare immediately that I had everything they plead.

Rehízose something to force to engage in it, and thus began from very deep sighs and sobs poorly
suppressed, the second part of his strange confession:

- While things this suerti, one afternoon, and the night abocar ... (Three days more by token,
Nah, you come to Tablanca), I took the jars, and took them all afternoon the sunset and the
lame to this and I took from then I had pa EYU forces, and we by water. The fuenti, such that
Nah, you know, is cayeju up here, a quarter of a Time for a good walk, climb, and a very cozy
flamenco to the right as you go up. For trasmanu be so pleasant and so the place of this house,
we drink only nusotros eya; of luck and modular, which is a more lonely solitude of a toas the
holy hour and night. Pos Who diz, Don Marcelo of my soul, walking, walking, and well the neglect
by the way, you paint tardezuca aqueya, bad penalties doomed to the darkest the corner, when I with
Jocic ... My Virgin Mary Mother of the Snows! with the picture of disaster man that I had,
ever seen or will see. Túvele by robber facinerosu. Tell me ayi mesmu Phoenicia, and became
cried out to God, letting the pitchers of clean hands and a trembling of the whole body. Alzose
in this man, who was sentau in a rock below the most Tupi binquizal there Ayi, and spoke with
my pa joke ajuegos that were in plain view, and pa jurame coming of peace, if not placed in extreme
come of war ... because he too is a love ... And then, then, Don Marcelo, then was when I understood
that I am clouded the view, and my blood curdled in my veins, Jundi and the ground she walked
... Aqueyu was espantu of espantus, and the anguish the agonies of death ... For Holy Virgin
Mother of my heavenly! that enemy jaraposu man so and so badly encarau, and moviciones voice
and words, proved it, the mesmu in huesu and flesh, soul and life!

-
Who? - Asked Facia, with the intent to distract the paroxysm that
had fallen again, that the curiosity of a response that I almost guessed.

-
Post it, Don Marcelo - I said, wringing her hands clasped unhappy
with terror in the eyes, as if one man before them -, the propiu causanti
of my pain and not comforted, the evil father of the unhappy daughter
of my heart!

- But are you sure it was him? - Facia asked some questions
and feigning astonishment did not feel.

- Ay, sir - I said sobbing
-, although he had not estau entoncis, who genuinely I was, I had
many reasons pa estarlu dimpués here!

- Current - added -.

But where did it come ... and what ... and why?

- Pos went, as recounted to me with that Jizo zalameru palaver and I had always I made foolish
in his day, by esus mundus way from there, far, far away! ... even further, sometimes the other
band. You see you if you will be well away. Always looking for the
good life, and never giving him.

Came to be seen even in chains, years and years, but never your fault, but others, bad friends
and Piore compañerus work.

After time, free alcontróse Prisons and master of himself he, but he was alone and helpless,
aged and lacking body of Salu, he pulled this land because, after
all, and settlement, here were Peaz of her womb, and in search of
eyus put under the heart that does not lie.

Taking languages ??in time, heard of me ... Ay, Don Marcelo!

I think even more than what I know thyself. By knowing in too, I knew since I had heard from
me in better times, but well counted were, that my master gives to their sirvientis welds from time
to time, AP Eyas hagamus of what more we come in taste. With this knowledge and live the nusotras
two, brought the indino of adjustment account, year by year and day by day, the amount of agorro
I should keep, and kept in God's truth, like gold cloth, the best arrangement of pa Tona me tomorrow.
I did not want to be seen then in the village, but lived in another lejanu and could not quite
understand it and I very often the case if asked.

So here was the sweetness of the interview, according to the account of Facia. For painting
of bitterness it and much of what happened later, it had the unhappy rapporteur or colors or
art or forces. I lost the thread of events and I tangled the issue. Wishing I know thoroughly
and by right, I went to comfort her as direct reflections of love and questions thorough inquiry.
I worked out the procedure and the substance of my work was:

Well adjusted by the husband's account of the assets of his wife, came the first requirement "Donation."
By then I had enough with it, then they would see.

Facia would not hand, since it had to go to the source with this sudden urge, but he was committed
back to pick it up there again the next day at the same time, and was beaten. If she wanted
silent as death when it comes to that meeting and what was it followed "For X or such respects"
the man would not oppose it because it was "a natural gentleman and generous, and I knew to
get in all cases. "

But he must have understood Facia (and you the warning much more expensive, for their sake) that
he, with prisons and chains that had suffered, had settled all its accounts with the law. He
was free as air, and was owns all rights, including the right to live with his wife or his daughter
to claim to take it with them if the first does not suit him. If they said anything at the requisitions
arrivals at following Tablanca miss him there, would not tell him the truth: first, because
he was innocent of all that is blamed, and second, because although it was not, paid I had scraps
and other sins in a heap ... that he had not committed. But he (again to repeat it) would
not try to take advantage of his right: he knew things, and not deviate from Like his wife,
if you had plugged in that are not discovered or by flies. Thus, and with this sacrifice on
his part, could be reached also the ends that he was looking to his return to Tablanca.

For the unhappy woman, who had been considered free of that pattern of insult, and only aspired
to in the village was forgotten, as she forgot, which had existed since her daughter never had the
slightest suspicion of it, the sudden appearance of the man exceeded by far all he could imagine
the scale of human misfortunes. Believed to cuff closed as the rogue's said, and from that moment
was his slave helpless as the bird of the serpent fascinates and terrifies him. The farm, life,
everything seemed little to buy the silence of the infamous and put between him and his daughter
a wall such that neither the eagles were able to fly so high.

And everything was doing as the rogue asked. At source and in the evening, the interviews; and in
each interview, a "donation" of facia and new villain on the bluffs of sacrifice that was for
the good and peace of his "family" living homeless and kills jump. As his 'borrowed home' was
far from Tablanca (although he had chances for trouble "A halt" in the middle of the road,
well sheltered from storms and covered with curiosity of people), the appearances of the man that
happened only in calm weather, and hence Facia so distressed to sunny
days and what the boisterous delight, as though were not daily, far
from the first interviews, it became impossible in seconds.

Uva grape, soon it was a bunch of savings of the unfortunate woman, and when nothing was to offer
to the insatiable greed of the vampire, he began to outline other requirements soon realized
that the dazed and never very subtle understanding of Facia.

When he came to understand and unambiguously declare the other or Repulgue, anxieties of the unfortunate
were such that the game seemed suffered there. He did not could, in conscience, comply with the
misery of his wife received.

His dedication and sacrifices for the sake of the tranquility of his "beloved family" were worth
much more, and had to look where they have been, and as he had plenty in his master's house, my uncle,
hence had to leave, and much, and then, with the wit and the hand
of his own servant, Facia's own.

I felt very much take things on that side and so quickly, but the naughty need forced him to
it. It was, above all, loyal and grateful, and had great favors, I wanted to pay, other two
gentlemen who had shared with him their prison labor and they had not abandoned after it until
it declared.

This suddenly struck me a souvenir, and asked Facia signs "particular" of her husband. Started
by a Chirlo in the face that broke his eye and nose, and did not need the Acquaintance remaining
to give the character. Without discover my suspicions, harshly rebuked for having hidden until then
what I was saying. He, more than she cared silent, because he had great scores with justice. Everything
that was said in contrast, was an innocent lie to exploit their ignorance.

You could have picked in one of their ambushes, like a fox in the trap, as it would take insurance
if you have walked there ...

This is thrilled with horror the distraught woman and fell back on his knees before me to ask me crucified
by God not to do such a thing. She also had ever happened that could not be true all that he
said "the order of those individuals'; but so what? ... If that was not grieved that, but the
noise and fear of scandal to the place found out the case, then Don Celso and, above all, his daughter,
Oh, this ever!

... Cover, cover, and no more than cover! ... Therefore, your life and a hundred lives and
a thousand lives; the agony on the cross, in the glow of a furnace, dismembered alive ... Buried
in health, frogs and snakes.

- What about the theft too? - With ill-concealed interrupted harshly.

- Lord - I responded as terrified by the sound of the question -. Although capable off EYU, what
do I know HERE saves on my master's wealth, or whether it is even
home?

Here I mentioned, spirit and troubled, after sitting down again, by
my repeated mandates how, not having the courage to do what was proposed
by the infamous, or resolution enough to refuse, had been entertaining
him impatience with that objection and that of the continued presence
of myself and other people in the house because of the recurrence
of his love (because this happened in the days that followed the snow)
but, although all knew about him to none of this was of no importance:
on the contrary, argued that under those chores and concerns, it was
like she could best achieve their attempts, whether placed by work.

This, for good, because if he still looked very much, would come to bad, then, for bad or good, it
had to be done, and in the air.

The poor do not know what course to take in this circle of hot iron, burning, and as the impatience
of the rogue did not give the slightest respite, one day, the day before Facia of which had me,
had told him: "Since we do not take it with you to solve your hands, "we" decided "we" steal
with ours. By midnight tomorrow, when there is no sign of man in the kitchen or embers spark
at home and sleep everyone in the house, get to the gate of the lane. Then you will hear a
hiss of the air (And whistled softly in a way).

Needless to hear you and you come creeping to astragalus I open the door with such finesse
and care that neither of them know about it hinges. The rest is on us. We'll come to the cat,
which is hidden. If any too light to sleep, tummy to in saecula as soon as you wake up, and
the first your master, if it has not been started by his nephew ... and not left to tie all submissiveness
to order the case. So you're forewarned, and how it has cost you.