 Only one case of evasion has happened so far, and that the negligence of a guard.
Inmate never lost any reason not attack the guards. The total confinement without work or
light, and temporary food deprivation or bed to sleep on, are the means of coercion or repression.
The work of prisoners is to make shoes and mats or a pillar grains. Each of the joint workshops
is monitored internally by a guard to win, besides the food and accommodation, three francs a
day. The director, an assistant or secretary, and these guards are the only active employees
of the establishment, and serve him very well. Chaplains attend Sunday church services to make moral and
without prejudice to its competition accidental.

When an inmate is worthy of consideration, is allowed to receive from time to time the short visit
of some debt. This takes place in a booth, the gate through a thin wire that allows the conversation
and the exchange of glances, under the supervision of the warden present, but that prevents all
contact and communication cards, money, weapons. They take books that are carefully recorded
all the facts of the domestic economy and statistical observations on the morality of prisoners. According
to these documents, if the conduct of a defendant is blameless get a less rigorous treatment
and a reduction of sentence, which reaches halfway. These discounts are common. As the product
of labor, the system is analogous to the House of Detention, but part is intended to help,
if they are poor, to the children, parents, or spouse of the inmate. The prison serves only
to those convicted for crimes or serious offenses, to more than one year of confinement cell.
The maximum of the duration is 20 years, applied only in cases of
repeated serious crimes.

The
thing that caught my attention in the prison was the chapel, local extremely simple, unadorned and
provided no seats in the amphitheater.

There the prisoners are divided into sections according to their criminality. At the bottom, next
to the modest chair of the chaplain, is a small altar reduced to one Christ, the image of the
Virgin and the vessels and objects necessary for the Roman worship. This altar is provided with
a thick, dark curtains. When inmates are Roman Catholic chapel, the altar is naked and does the
priest concerned. When his turn assist the Protestants, the altar is covered and is not in sight but
the Bible on the table. Thus, the same pulpit and serve the local priest and pastor. Never in my life
had found a social spectacle as sublime as that of the humble chapel, also dedicated to the service
of two religious communions which have bloodied the soil with their impious struggles. What profound
teaching of spiritualism in religion, of noble simplicity in worship, brotherhood and tolerance,
universality in the religious idea, - without considering the differences in symbols and forms, - of
true Christianity, in order ! Teaching hidden in the depths of a prison, - a symbol of the equal duty
to conscience and justice - to instill the culprit the notion of brotherhood in God and man,
the equal right of all, as violation is precisely what is called
a fault, offense or crime!

By
leaving to Geneva, had not only an impression of deep respect for this small country of philosophers,
artists and free and industrious, but also a kind of comfort and confidence in the future of humanity.
What's great examples and inspirations towering European civilization owes to this tiny village,
used to manufacture watches and exercising free inquiry, his genius
seems to have severe regularity and timing of expansion independent of
the organizations free!

There have been born, to the glory of letters and sciences of every kind, daring naturalists and patients
as Saussure and Candolle, lawyers and Burlamaqui; historians as Sismondi and Mallet, economists
such as John B. Say and Sismondi himself, men of state as Necker, writers such as Madame Necker,
and Cherbuliez Töpffer; distinguished artists, thinkers, philosophers
like Rousseau immortal!

A huge open carriage, divided into three compartments and containing about 23 people, besides
baggage, was to guide us along the Arve Valley to Chamonix, at the foot of the colossal group
of mountains in the center of which holds the impressive dome of
Mont Blanc