 

It was Lazarus after the seminar, had his narrow cell, sad, learned Latin and worst evil Greek,
not to admire the genius of the great pagan poets, but to blunt its intelligence in theological casuistry,
it grazed gently with scholastic philosophy, was given the books Fathers of the Church told the
criteria to be followed to keep me on the slippery slope of thinking to their understanding
marked the boundaries that should not pass, and as if the thought of man was bird whose flight depends
on the will of another, imposed the idea, dogma and the sense of what ought to believe and proclaim.
In his brain had to give room, he hated it or not, what other conceived, his effort had to be
maintainer of propositions that he was given little consideration; had to admit the truth without
examining it, believe it it was not proven. "Node live by bread only, but the word of God," he said,
and the word of God was an enigma, at best a promise. Interpretation was denied or examination of
the sacred books, and to top it absurd that in this mystery sostuviéronle impenetrable which is the essence
of all dogmatic, are the possible demonstration of truth and the divine charm of poetry, because
faith is the substance of things expected, the argument of the things that are not [1].

Then, lack of support for his intelligence, but could still discern
the good from the bad, or no estimate as false and invaluable right,
was paraded before his eyes the pages of his hands folios, the endless
procession of ideas, theories and concepts which gave him as infallible
truths.

It was seeing the man vilified since birth by a fault of others, can not redeem it, knew that
the soul capable of the crime, is made likeness of God, read the heavenly mercy can also be
cruel, with eternal punishment, and God's will is able to subvert the eternal laws of matter and energy.

But
simultaneously contrary to the phrase "You are dust," he said the man is king land, the waters of
the seas and the sands of the desert plains are free to their activity and its value, the beasts
of brutal power, slaves to their intelligence metals, as strong and rich veins creepeth into the
bowels of the mountains, hidden treasures for Find work and sweat of the fruitful, and even women,
divinely shaped clay with the features of the lover and the mother,
is yours too, of his flesh, bone of his bone.

But yet, despite this, he asserted that the ideal of life is not the existence within nature,
or war fruitful work or passion for the truth or art, but the mute and static contemplation of the
divine, sterile celibacy, the cloister, poverty, fasting, self-contempt and the desire to
arrive at death as a door magic from which the threshold is perceived dawn of eternal paradise
of the righteous.

On this set of ideas for consideration summit of more than about him, Lazarus was for the holiness
and greatness of the mission accepted, but came to rise a point in his mind the idea that it
was independent and foreign faith. So came to meet the twenty-five years. His intelligence,
such as glass slab according to the concepts of those who turned their education, was cast in
was cleared ideals of others.

As in themselves contain the trends of past centuries, the former served as turquoise to shape
and be a society, took deep roots in their intelligence. Educated for battles of this, had
convictions for weapons of old, strong as sincere, But Brittle old.

Arrival time of leaving the seminary, the bishop called his office and told him about this,
good luck:

"Let's separate. When I wrote to my brother in charge of your future, do not think that it
is so easy to put a man on the path to the architect of his own fortune,
but your application, and ingenuity have taken things so that here,
from this day forward, you will not do the most to lose time.

If you stay with us, not drop by poor village priest, perhaps reaching some day to preach in
our cathedral, but nothing more.

Stepping to the court, as I wish, your give your career merits as flattering as flattering then
have been the beginning. Bit like me part with you, but two considerations do: I brought you here,
not satisfaction me, but for your own convenience, and the struggles of earth, in the revolt
surge of interest found where you have to intervene, can be highly useful to the holy cause
of the Church.

"You're going to change way of life, habits and customs, even breathing environment that not match the
pure auras of these fields nearby, the stale air of the city. Here, even though there is duplicity
and deceit, evil is not as refined or as cunning hypocrisy; Hence the damage done courtesy
deeper and more concealed awkwardness.

Men live before they learn to find out the thoughts of others who express their own, with rozándote
people who try to ferret the truth lies, and try to gain your trust deceiving others, and then
you deceive yourself for the benefit of third parties. Go across chest falsehood, comedy brain
around: many to represent such a manner that takes seriously their role, and even death ends
the farce, as others pretend that they have believed, and Flattery goes to the epitaph, staining
to the marbles. Beware of what surrounds you and stay on guard almost more than against the evils
of others, against your own weaknesses. God has placed in you faith and reason, it, like eternal
light that shines on you and walk, but she, bra for support and when in doubt, but have faith
that if you hesitate, the sooner you will be cause of misery than comfort and hope. Read books
in your hands without taking care of deepen their pages as they will discover, that the book,
like wine, strengthens if not abused, if it is lavished drunk. Science is the peace of the soul
what the water the seed, with little more than enough is fertilized and drowns. Your mission
today was to learn you had to flee the morning: now live among the poor, preventing corrupt you
achieve. The task of your life is to comfort the suffering, to encourage the waiting, to forgive
the erring, in your heart till the port where the castaways look under the world. There is on earth
mission more noble, than ours. If virtue could be proud, we would have been futile; but we,
of uniting the kindness and gentleness, and proud we are denied the pride, by childish vanity.

"You
see, Lazarus, what a beautiful perspective offers the view .-- Life is struggle of passions, to
each other get hurt and hurt: thou shalt be of those men who by vocation of charity mingle
in the fight, carrying in his soul the inexhaustible mine of piety and lips the perennial spring
of hope. As a cure ailments of the body, other caregivers the purity of spirit you will, of them,
and while yours remains intact, you never shortage of words that your brothers instill faith
that will encourage you.

Cree and I believe, sincerity never inspired confidence. If the mission is difficult, not to ocultársete
the temptation is terrible, and seeing him go, but if something divine and strong in man, is
the will. To all you have to rise above, fearing more the self-indulgence, that of others censorship.
Spiteful know to you for your faults, weak to a fault with the neighbor that the man should be so
greedy and prodigal virtues of forgiveness. If persecution abuses you or harass you irony, receive
with meekness the first and second with pity, for if evil must find patients, sarcasm has
to inspire pity. Always more sympathy Merézcate who mocks the good that one who practices evil.
For the functions of our ministry you will have to talk the ear of the wife, and yours virgin
deposited their secrets: Tell those who sacrifice everything for peace in the house and postpone
it to all the peace of mind. The heretic respond with the word Indeed, treating him as a friend
to reconquer lost there, not as an enemy that must be overcome, and will pray for the salvation of
those who persist in error, then as the religion is the heritage of all, let him take at least
pity. No mortify the dying man with the memory of their crimes down here, Tell them your hopes
up there. Faith, forgiveness, meekness: this is your motto, the heart your shield, your reward
the kingdom of heaven. If violence doest you'd die, die with courage, but not with the calm
that can be cynicism, but with the quiet serenity that reflects the depth of the soul, serve
others an example that amounts to a consolation.

"But not good that you walked away without insurance, port of arrival. I fixed all so that the
court will enter by this door, which many would like your position as a term their ambitions.
Chaplain's going home to the Dukes of Civet, gentlemen as powerful as good. Of your duties
towards them anything I say, that the humility of a priest should not take forgotten the dignity
of man, and I have certainly before long they will not know what to look more love: if its
venerable church or discreet and loyal friend. Depart soon, and know God how long. Ever remember
me and always what you owe it to yourself.

Receive my blessing, and hopefully it gives you all the goods that you will want. "

* * * * *

From there a few days left Lazarus, and even encouraged by their hopes did not fail to give much
think about the visible contradiction between the advice that had discrete listen and not very
austere life of his uncle, but conceive how to be good As advised, was not entirely identical
to what he practiced.

      

III.

Ere by that time the home court of the Dukes of Algalia one of the most rich and famous by aristocratic.
His flag was not yet complete disgrace with the touch of manners
modern, his statements were not yet prey to any meeting of creditors,
and could have added to the coat of arms gracefully some pinwheels
placed in bold calf.

The splendid contemporary life can give, how big is that can engender refinement of taste and plenty
of gold, is reflected in the home of the Dukes of Civet.

Each of its rooms was a small chapel consecrated to the elegance, the whole palace a magnificent
temple of taste and fashion, rich with details worthy of a museum,
who were scrambled old and new, forming the consortium strange, yet
harmonious offering good collection by different characters that are
magazine.

There was no bad piece jeweled or neglected nook. Besides the care with which he had attended
the gift of the body material, ornamentation everywhere indicating the fate of rooms: the large
reception hall was decorated with lavish taste of the monarch of Versailles; the dining room
covered with Flemish tapestries ceremony, the family, with large still lifes signed by master
hands, the office of Duke, all of ebony inlaid with brass, the quarters of the child, covered
with bright fabrics and simple but valuable, and the Duchess embellished with such taste and wealth,
nor the black satin cabinet of multicolored fringed silk, or bathroom with jasper and onyx Algerians,
or the toilet of blue curtains, would have been better if the host chooses the art of beauty.
Seemed to view for those floors and furniture was essential a great lady who was even more
the distinction that the beauty is that pisase with small feet, like light shade, the velvety carpets
and couches to sit down on the flexible almost loaning the soft springs their body weight.

And that was in effect, that neither the nobility all, or all of the high bench, was more dignified
lady to enjoy those great things that the Duchess Margaret, noble to the tips of her long black
lashes, and elegant until the fund clear blue eyes. The figure was graceful, but languid movements,
as a whopping cat and sober attitude voluptuous as a Greek statue, the more modest dress better
enhance their beauty, and a dress completely black, a large bouquet
of yellow roses in the gaping neckline, simply collected hair, pending
free tiny ears, and bare the aristocratic hands, no man could be contemplating
a second without congratulate you on born.

Subtract add more charm to sweet tooth, which Oropendia Margaret, Duchess of Civet, but had more,
accounted for only thirty years, and was relatively virtuous.

The duke, somewhat appalled by the excesses of the good life, looking somewhat dead by much
love stay up late or at cards, was still a good-looking man, elegant, scrupulous British education
as the label is concerned, and until instructed. Knew, for example, that Louis XVI was beheaded, and
died as a result, or that Carlos I England had similar luck, frequently cited facts to prove
formidable are the masses when, in his words, goes on a rampage. That best characterized the
Duke was the ardent desire to see fulfilled a constant aspiration of his life, a demand of
his imagination who participated on the seriousness of the ambition
and absurdity of caprice Senate.

The senate was in his eyes the complement of its nobility, it would be an occupation, an excuse
to be important, the satisfaction of his vanity. And if in addition to being a senator could
be for life ... Senator for life! I dreamed of sitting in its own right red seats of the Upper
House, to drive to the square of the Ministries, dismount away from the gate to cross between
the rows of spectators, who murmured, "that is the Duke of Algalia;" then enter the conference
room, walking alone in the corners as he ponders a plan, shaking hands with the ministers,
to accept the requests of the suitors, saying "See," or "do what I can," and go after a vote, exclaiming:
"The duties politicians! "My conscience!" "The party!" "!...» institutions

This is enough to see that the Duke was still fixed in the roots of old ideas Magin; but, nevertheless,
was regarded as a demagogue compared with its witch consort.

The Duchess was the epitome of aristocratic lady, who only in matters of love and Fashion compromise
with progress. Religious superstition, devout in faith inherited hypocrite of what to say,
and uncompromising in decorum, I loved the Mass in which premiered a suit, the Easter at that
as pretty as the previous year, asked for the poor, or novena authorizing an appointment. When
was pleased to read up and down the expressive eyes, like fiddling
with lids, rejoicing in giving light and shade alternately around her.

In its relations with the great world, had the supreme touch mortify knows no offense that is
to admire without committing virtuous people to imitate or alienate
ever with those who sin.

He lived among the beau monde, was an integral part of the high life; The people attacked the
nerves of the crowd fled in fear of the smell, and whether other time the public had called, had died
of fright. The word revolution is not evoked set their eyes more than Marie Antoinette imprisoned
in the Conciergerie, and the easiest race saw political unrest, shots, outrages and abuses.
For her, be of humble origin was not a failure, but a stain and work it seemed very honest
crazy but the claim to be raised calloused hands.

The Duke compromised in some fashion with the modern spirit: he had bought domestic goods which
made him relatively liberal, it was several individual boards credit societies, traveling with
tickets free movement, defending the institutions; Turno talked about, and called conservative.
Not admit that an artist could never be his equal, but he, out of benevolence, when protecting
the arts did not come out very expensive. Daba very important work, never did anything, concessions
admitted to the talent, and explained the grant of a title to anyone who could get rich in the
stock market or the high state business.

The daughter of this marriage was progress live on his parents between a rich fool, shrunken ailing,
and a good picture upstart, but poor commoner and go, preferring to dance with the second,
and ambitions of a young girl chose to live with a man who I would like, before the wedding with
a scrofulous heir of respectable lineage. Such ideas were, without doubt, that she was not angry
when he began to look lovingly true individual, which in those days attracted to it the praise
of the whole country: a young man in a had political meeting with a speech on the far left,
moved and excited opinion the people, to the point, she ran his name through word of mouth, made
the duke you submit, not merit pay tribute, but to get their man
lounges put fashion.

Thus, none of them both will look, got to know and treated Felix and Josephine Algalia Village.

So matters stood when, in winter, ie at the time of most parties, dances and receptions, the
steward of the Dukes was one morning, in order of their masters, station the railroad to wait
for the new chaplain who had to replace the old priest death a few weeks earlier. Adivinole
habits by getting off a wagon, and approaching he previous greetings and phrases to figure out
who want more detail, led him to the palace in a cab, and the lords presentole. Received by them
as required by the nobility in such great people, and he respected his ministry, accompanied
him to the room it was intended, taught him the chapel, instructed the steward and administrator
respect and serve him, and without further conversation was installed in the home of Lazarus
Dukes of Civet.

By separating these from the young priest, the woman asked her husband: - What do you think? -

-
Very young - replied the duke, - but we had to spend more time without a chaplain, and when
Bishop recommends, it is well .--

Chaplain! This was the place to be played. Nobody had told him it was still more like a servant
in the kitchen or a new horse in the stables, a luxury item simple. Was to say mass on the duchess
did not want to leave. No special mention of the Duke, because he was not practicing Catholics.

So
few and brief occupation Lazarus left the whole day, so that its still great curious about
the new center in which he lived, and easy means to satisfy it, soon
began to observe and think about what he saw, disentangle and analyze
everything.

When changing social environment, feeling out of his area, only to
be suddenly in the turmoil in the world, every glance it was an observation
and each observation trial that, frequently clashing with their own
ideas, destroyed or altered.

True believer and powerful intellect, he was studying, looking around, and supported as strong
lever in their ideal, compared and judged the facts of life.

Was in his soul that deep faith that, like certain gemstones, will
be more rare every day.

Their concerns were so naive something sacred and free from all looking interested, come to
new life, bringing to examine it, but with the spirit of other centuries, the most straight
impartiality.

Relax, put the mind in God and hope the desire to know, tended the light around him, but forced
to fly like a bird too high, his eyes were dazzled, he felt the dizziness that gives the height,
and lacked air their oppressed lungs.

As they arrive late and weakly to hear the echoes of the distant storm
that is approaching instants, Lazarus felt his soul go reaching vague
forebodings of doubts and fears, mysterious ads for a future fraught
with tears and sleeplessness.

What was that? What shadows began to disturb him? What fears would turn around of his imagination
as wild beasts that roam around its prey? Was beginning to suck the stench of the mud swamp land,
or perhaps that feeling the oppressive yoke matter, and his spirit was longing for immortality?

Was
that what he had learned and believed, was at odds with reality. Was inside him a call he could
not shine in this new environment.

His studies were broad-based as many brooding, the spectacle of the world, ceaselessly provoked
bait.