 

That noble victory won clerics, things Sarrió Lighthouse, came well and prosper. The spirited
and intrepid naval aide was able to continue its civilizing campaign without danger of new traps.
Sinforoso not withdraw, however, to his home unless accompanied him or another friend, both well
armed.

But Gabino Maza, the eternal dissident maliciously took advantage of this break with Church, to shock
the consciences of some neighbors. Not that he was a fervent Catholic, nor give a damn that
you put the priests and parsley leaf. On the contrary, all life had professed quite unorthodox
ideas and had cursed the blessed. But now showed shocked: "At last, after all, had been raised in
respect of religion, which is the only check on the people. You can not blatantly offend the sacred
beliefs of our wives, etc., etc. "Some of these perfidious insinuations, left newspaper subscription.

The
writers and director, who guessed where it came from the coup, were
greatly incensed.

Gabino Maza, supported by no less wayward Delaunay, not give up its campaign of slander. While some of
the Lighthouse was before, nothing, but as he went, brandishing the languages ??with singular ferocity.
Sometimes serious, others appeal to ridicule, was ground to all those involved in the newspaper,
and particularly, of course, the best and most highly personified as the virtuoso Don Rosendo.
They said oh, wanes! that only the desire "to be in print" had led to those deserving citizens to
light the torch of progress in Sarrió, Don Rufo, the doctor was a fraud; Sinforoso, a pauper
who threw a crust; Alvaro Peña (here the voice and looked down at all sides), a trial without
a hint of smarty, Don Feliciano Gómez, a poor devil who mattered most not engage in a thriving business,
Don Rudesindo, a large taciturn, which was rent a store and announce their cider. As the founder
and promoter of that company, Don Rosendo, said that all life had been a Badulaque, a fool who believed
writer without understanding anything other than the rise and fall of cod ...

Only imperative duty to appear as faithful and impartial chroniclers, forces us to realize of
such talk. God knows who has been with hard work and disgust.

Because the same pen trembles in our hands and refuse to print such abominations.

Don Pedro Miranda, absteníanse of the whisperers whisper, for no other
reason but have you applied for leave to participate in the newspaper,
which saw him bow from the fray of the clergy, as was Don Pedro and
very large old Christian friend chaplain of the Augustinians.

With their malicious speeches had been made against the newspaper unleashing some influential
ladies of the town, including Dona Brigida. This had at his of the Club within the madman and degraded
Marín. Also attracted to his side, soon after the drunk mayor. On the one hand the spirit of
fellowship with the circles of Morana shop, and other discomfort I felt with the constant excitations
press, which was not used, will soon deny he made enormous progress. What I ended up putting
wrong with The Lighthouse and its editors, was some press release that are censored City Hall
and the mayor with some hardness on the sad neglect that had the urban police services, and
how little work to do enjoyable summer "The distinguished scrofulous attending Sarrió beach
in search of health."

Although apparently were treated as friends, there was, therefore, between the main partners
Saloncillo deaf and hidden enemy. It was increasing day by day thanks to the go-between that in
similar cases, do not cease to sow envy and resentment.

Temíanse and disputes and shunned because the monstrous cries and hurled insults previously without
success any thanks to the compromise that was friendly to all, were, at present, much danger. There
was, therefore, in that place, more silence, more courtesy, but far less frankness and cordiality.

That
tension could not last long. Among people who are daily and speak, and do not want it is impossible
that in the near future be sure to burst contention. The occasion was this. Reached Saloncillo
(was poor chance!), Without knowing who bring a copy Illustration of some Catalan, where, among
other prints, looked one representing the American banks of a river,
and amuse them up to a dozen crocodiles of various sizes.

Had in hand exemplary Maza, when Don Rufo approaching from behind, said jokingly:

- Look at those skinny crocodiles!

- There are crocodiles - Maza said dryly contemptuous, without looking up.

- Why not to be? - Said the doctor injured by that tone.

- Why not.

-
Valiente right!

- If you're not convinced, considering that I'm not
here to do works of mercy.

- Ugh!

The sage of Greece!

To one side, gentlemen!

- I am not a scientist, but do not say that these animals are crocodiles,
when the Marañón River not bred crocodiles.

- What are they?

- Cayman.

-
Call hache!

Alligators and crocodiles come to be the same.

- Another awful!

Where did you learn that?

- Man, is last nail. The alligator and the crocodile did not differ only in name. Here is Don
Lorenzo has traveled, and can tell if it is not true.

- The alligator
is somewhat smaller - said Don Lorenzo with conciliatory smile.

-
The size is of little importance.

The question is whether or not the same figure.

Don Lorenzo bowed in assent.

Maza jumped, in a rage:

- But, gentlemen. But, gentlemen! Are we among enlightened people
or among villagers?

Where you take that alligator is like crocodile?

The crocodile is an animal of the Old World and the alligator is
the New World.

- Excuse me, friend Maza, I have seen crocodiles in
the Philippines - said Don Rudesindo.

- What do you mean by that?

-
As you said that crocodiles are not reared in the New World ...

-
Other than this!

"The Philippines is the New World? Gentlemen, gentlemen! have to open their umbrellas. Nonsense
raining here today.

- Why, do you want to say that the Philippines is not overseas? -
Asked Don Rudesindo with the face was broken.

- Nothing, nothing,
follow the shower!

- The main difference, gentlemen, between the
crocodile and the alligator - "here Don Lorenzo seasoning authority
- is that the crocodile has three races and the alligator teeth only
two.

- Not that, man, is not it!

Crocodiles have the same teeth as racing alligators.

Don Lorenzo said briskly his assertion.

We helped in the defense don Rudesindo. Maza attacked him no less fire, supported by Delaunay.
Soon entered the fray a few other partners generalized combat, which
was becoming more alive.

The voices were horrendous.

If they had possessed three races of teeth such as crocodiles, or even if they were two, no
doubt would devour, Given the anger and the courage with which they taught the only with which
Nature had endowed them.

Maza was so impudent, insolent, who finally Rudesindo gift, without being master of himself,
he downloaded an umbrella on his head.

Ensued him a hail of them among the contenders, with an awful sound of whales and wire rods
that the man was shivering more Arriscado. Many who had not even agreed to give its opinion on the teeth
the reptiles mentioned, received its share of umbrella, as well as the most had clarified the matter
with their speeches. Coffee rose the master with some other people, the Indians stopped their
game of pool, broke in Don Melchor de las Cuevas from whom and in war and peace is a long case.
Finally he managed to defuse the uproar and conclude that the will, for some months cold.

The result was that from that day Gabino Maza, Delaunay, Don Roque Marín and three or four members
were removed from the Club. Don Pedro Miranda continued to assist with long intervals of absence.
This was presumed to social gatherings and other editors Faro could not count on him, and did
not take long to fall on the opposite side. As came into effect. Dissidents began meeting in
the coffee house located in the Caborana street. But not many months after the town ran the
news that rented a warehouse across the street from San Florencio to establish their meetings.
And so it was.

The parquet, carpeted it, then painted the walls and ceiling, with some chairs and amuebláronlo
armchairs, set up tables of triplets and began attending evening and night to that site as assiduously
as before the Club. As low ceiling and be embedded in a wall litter was used to nap Marin, began
calling the place in the population the cabin, and the name stuck. The Lighthouse, which had
spurned the deserters while had no roof to shelter, went into care. The first sign of fear
was a press hand or novel in verse, prose describing this new gathering and painting each of its
members with animal names, Maza the snake, a rooster Delaunay Belgian Marín ass Roque pork, etc.,
etc. This press exasperated the cabin of an unspeakable way.

Don Rosendo still growing strong and committed to his campaign journalism. Introduced Faro in
all those ways that have looked at the national and foreign press, particularly in French. Had
commissioned a writer in Madrid for Wednesday send her a message of twenty words, and I also write
political letters and literary; translated all the news he was curious in the newspapers made fashion
magazines, courts, theater (when there was company.) But where was most distinguished in the
markets. It is not easy skill with which he drove, and had brought cereal, oils, broth and rice.
In order to see how amenity and gallantry knew how to treat a matter
so commonplace, say he once wrote: "The honey, sensitive to these
alterations, spoke in low and did not reach stability and firmness
in prices until coffees, cocoas and other genera living overseas were
able to suppress their swings.

" Was, in short, the soul of the newspaper.

It was not enough, however, what he had done to bring it up to your ideal. Belinchón always followed
with lively interest in the Paris newspapers these personal controversies rarely left to end a duel.
And the adventures of this, carefully counted by a witness, it pleased him so extremely, that no
food was so delicious to him, no more pleasant recreation. When many days passed without challenge,
Don Rosendo languished. Descriptions of assault weapons among shooters famous capital of France, also
excited greatly curious. And if a little is entangled in those technical phrases Magin Sixt engagement,
battement in quarte, contre-riposte, feint, etc., back to the translated his way and was aware
of it. He said that no sign was better known the extent of culture of a country in the hobby
to arms. The handling of them woke up and fanned the idea of honor and dignity. His retirement drew him
of cowardice and degradation.

Knew better than their relatives the biography of the greatest duelists and armes des gens
de Paris. Could and verse describe the challenges they had and the severity of injuries. As announced
an assault between two masters, for example Grisier Jacob was already our knight excited. Hastily
opened the Figaro daily and bet on Inside one or the other.

One day it occurred in the bed (where he always attacked the big ideas) to be journalist without
knowing or handle weapons, was the same as a dancer and not playing the castanets. When you least
expect it raised a set, you had to go to ground, and he did not even know be on guard. Sarrió
true that all who knew there was more. But nobody had obligation to know as much fencing as he. Moreover,
the argument could be a journalist Lancia or Madrid, and then had to be left murder. These imaginings
led him to adopt a resolution, that of learning at all costs to pull the foil. How? Summoning Sarrió
a teacher because he could not part with this. Without communicating thought with anyone, wrote
to a friend in Paris, which searched the rooms of this city weapons Prevot some auxiliary
or would like to emigrate. After some time he found one that by the amount of two thousand
francs a year, and leaving him free to give lessons, consented coming to settle in the town
of Biscay.

One day, with real amazement of the neighborhood, said he had just arrived in the schooner Julia
a fencing instructor, M. Lemaire, with the sole purpose of teaching the management of Don Rosendo
weapons. And indeed, soon saw it accompanied by a young skinny and blonde foreign trace. The
impression was deep. In small towns, where people sticks and sticks slapping, the coldness, correctness
and severity of mourning occurs awe and terror. The first thing that came up was that Don Rosendo
wanted to kill anyone. Only much later realized that the reason for learning.

Don Rosendo took it with ardor and seriousness it deserved. Every day spent a few hours in the
morning and one in the afternoon, to lie to the fund, which was all that allowed to the teacher
in the first two months. The most remarkable result of this exercise was that after some time did not
know if his legs were really theirs or other biped sound like him.

So sharp and vivid that the laces were attacked, that even when sleeping was believed to be jumping
into the background. Awoke with a start in terrible pain joint. After that M. Lemaire was so
cruel! Never was satisfied the work of the good knight :--«¡ Tips Plus! Plus! Ancor Sapristi
plus! " And the poor creature Rosendo opened, opened in a barbaric, unthinkable, feeling the
nice feeling if you sawed the caul. Over so noble exercise, Mr Belinchón needed to be looked
taken to the walls to move from one place to another, forming eighty degree angle with the
floor. From there until the end of his days, the glorious founder
of Lighthouse Sarrió always walked more or less spread one's legs.

But this torment, but it had nothing to envy to those of the martyrs of Japan, padecíalo, if
not with pleasure, with manly courage. Always thought that civilized side enormous sacrifices
and civilize a country. After two months started ticking eternal florets. But without abandoning
the torment of the legs. Rudesindo Don Alvaro Peña, Sinforoso, Pablito, Folgueras the printer and
some others, took lessons at the same time. In the room, impressions subjugated war so the
shooters, who kept a solemn silence. Nothing could be heard that gravelly voice of M. Lemaire
repeated endlessly and a distracted manner: - En garde vivement - Contre of Ripostez .-- quarte
... Oh well! - En garde contre Sixt .-- vivement. Ripostez ... Oh well! - Parez seconde Rispostez
.-- Ah well! Don Rosendo was believed moved to Paris and saw Don Rudesindo, Folgueras and
Sinforoso to Grisier, Anatole de la Forge and the Baron de Basancourt. El Faro no was El Faro,
but Le Gaulois and Le Journal des Débats.

After five months, was kept pretty well guarded, kept the jabs, attacking furiously and jumped back with
mastery. He thought if necessary to make a scandal. Was People need to be convinced that the
two thousand francs allocated to teacher were not entirely lost .. Also must go by introducing the
taste for these refinements of the big cities. But with whom to have affair in Sarrió? Although good
he spent his desire to challenge any of the Cabin, I realized that the only one capable of fighting
was Gabino Maza. To him had a migajita of respect, especially since he had heard from the teacher in duels
was necessary to be careful with violent men but knew no fencing. After long and deep meditation imagined
that the best was to provoke a set of Lancia with drawing a journalist controversy that came Faro
holding to the Future, on a branch road. And as I thought it did. The first issue was so aggressive,
so insolent to the newspaper of the capital, this one, amazed and
indignant, said that certain sentences of Faro but not merited contempt.

In consequence, Don Rosendo commissioned his friends and Sinforoso Alvaro Peña Suárez 'for they
were to understand "the director of the Future. They moved to Lancia and returned the same day.
Mr. Belinchón to see them come and ardently wished that the matter be have managed without
the need for mourning, though it was he who provoked it. New evidence of singular greatness
of soul and the exquisite sensitivity that was gifted. Unfortunately Future director had held
firm. The witnesses agreed to a saber duel which was performed the next day, on a possession
in the vicinity of Lancia.

Our hero, unknowingly, she felt her legs were weak, not fear, that this no even dare to imagine,
but for the thrill of being so close to being an object of curiosity and public expectation, not
only in the province, but in all Spain. When they walked towards home, Peña said with rough
frankness:

- The sponsors of Villar wanted to cut off the tips of their swords, but I opposed. "No, no,
I said, know all about Don Rosendo, and is one who hates childish things. Can not play with
him. When you get into a set of these, they need to go all serious. I Cortasa sure if the tips
have a quarrel with him ... "Have not I played While your desire?

- Perfectly. Thank you very much, Alvaro - Mr Belinchón said holding out a hand Pena found too
cold.

He added in a faint voice: - Although a little limasen the tips, you know? would have no problem
in accepting ... The issue, after all, no specifically requires it to death.

- I dared not even to accept that.

Not knowing the opinion of you, I was afraid that dislikes ...

- Nothing, nothing, because for me there is no objection to the limen.

- Now you can not be.

Conditions are agreed. Unless they intend again, the tips will be sharp. A lot because you should
throw the foil ...

- Precisely for this reason.

I would not take advantage on my opponent.

Peña winked maliciously.

- Do not be so scrupulous, Don Rosendo. Yes you can string fiiit!
like a bird, not quit.

These last words were accompanied by the assistant with an expressive gesture, crossing the air finger
tip, the same as if he were entering a human body.

Don Rosendo made a gesture of disgust, and kept long silence. After all, said silently:

- What I feel is that these damn shoelaces not allow me to throw myself
thoroughly.

- Ca, man, ca! Miss you care.

The duration of the haul, you will not feel any pain in the legs. Has not happened but feel the
pain of a toothache at the time of call at the door of the dentist to remove?

This simile was immediately comforting aide a fit of laughter, which lasted well time. Belinchón
remained serious and somber, as within the ambit of the heroes on the eve of battle.

The news spread like an electric spark from the public. The astonishment of the neighbors was
indescribable. None of them fit into a person's head, into and in years, married with children,
was to be a saber with the other as a matter of a branch road. However, the match Belinchón leaded
that astonished the decision and the value of your boss. This, at night, had a frightful nightmare.
He dreamed that the sword of the Future director would open up the
middle. One half will go to the winner as a trophy