 Each bank of sand covered saw skimmers, gulls and Caprimulgus, which
nest on the beaches, simply by depositing their eggs on the sand.

Slowly the days succeeded each by frequent stops to my rowers, the that in spite of the influence
that I had come to take upon them, often jumping to the ground, not wanting to obey, to chase through
the woods, and flocks of turkeys the mountain, and the boar, and a troop of large Marimon, who
understand the damage Agen our meeting seemed to go merrily jumping over the trees, until a EXPERIENCE
late and painful taught to distrust the man.

Meanwhile, the banks were constantly encouraged by all sorts of wild animals, that came out
of the woods to frolic on the beach or on the trees of the hillsides. Very Often a large beast,
suddenly surprised with our arrival, he would abruptly in flight, sometimes a capybara, sliding
with alacrity to the gorge, was hiding in the water further, a deer asleep, waking up early,
ran about among the forest from time to time turning his head to examine it again. Occasionally
also heard at the distance the roar of the tiger.

After several days of walking through the deep stream, but not very fast Securi river, we reached
the confluence of the rivers that Yuracares Yaniyuta call, which came down from the this,
is to give more expansion to Securi. The abundance of food that had reigned until Then, thanks
to the good fishing and hunting, was leaving us little by little, as the forest was becoming
more deserted, and on the other hand, the powder that I had altered without moisture doubt,
had as useless, for so soon after the lack of game we reduced the salt fish without any food,
and later to a few ears of corn that Yuracares provided us, and to
the palms that could shoot down my Indians.

Along the way, and the monotony of the voyage were beginning to get discouraged when August
8, at about eleven o'clock, we finally arrived at the confluence of a river low in the west,
and is much more significant that the Securi. The Yuracaré give the name of Isiboro, and according
to the saying of those who accompanied me, this mighty stream, consisting of Isiboro rivers,
Chipiriri Samucebeté and receives all the waters of the eastern slope of Iterama chain or the
Paracti, between the river San-Mateo, and the river Yaniyuta, ahead of which we had spent three
days earlier.

Seeing as that the river and tomba Securi an expansion equal to that which I had noticed at the point
of its junction with the Mamore, recovered mood, hoping to arrive soon to meet this river.

The next day quietly slid our canoe manned by between forest islands, when presented derrepente,
perched on a tree bank, the most beautiful, the most corpulent the most noble of all birds of
prey, a real harpy [1], which raised its beautiful crest, watching closely without seeming anxious
of our presence. Unable to use of my gun for lack of good powder, left to the skill of my Yuracares,
who jumped immediately to the ground, capturing the glory of that proud animal. One of them assertion
certainly a crush: in spite of this blow, fell at the bird fly, but pregnant with the arrow
had stuck, (which was about two yards long) soon fell into the forest where the follow my hunter.
I rejoiced because the idea of ??being able to carry to France this rare prey, when I return
to my Indians bringing the bird with the tail and wings entirely plucked, and the body almost bare.
The estimated Yuracares much the feathers of this bird, and to pawn his arrows, and to adorn
the gala days [2]; so that no time had taken possession of them, leaving my hopes mocked. After
having fought harshly for this behavior, I ordered the animal Trageser, we thought dead, and
seated in the canoe put it before me. Stunned only he had received blows to the head, he came to
himself, little by little without being apercibiésemos this, and when I least expected it,
he threw himself on me, making me one stroke eight wounds with their huge claws, one of which, more
than three inches long, I went through the arm from side to side, between the cubitus and radius,
rending one tendon. A screaming that I gave, my colleagues went voyage, and succeeded with great
difficulty to take off off the furious animal. Bathed in blood and no medicines to cure my
wounds, my state it was still dangerous. Meanwhile, heat continuously esponse of the day or
at the harmful dampness of the night, the fever took hold of me soon. On the other hand fear that
attacked me a fright, and doubt whether it would be damaged due to adhesion the skin to the
tendon, greatly increased my sufferings. Thanks to the Providence only positive that I was
wrong all this, was the inability to turn my arm for some time.

On the evening of that day we reached the confluence of the river Sinuta, last western tributary the
Securi. Leaving this point, we still have two more days, and my concerns and played at its
height, when finally presented Mamore river, unfolding before our eyes all his greatness. Immediately
I gave to forget my sufferings, for I was in Moxos, white of my labors, and the next day, after
having rowed all night vogando downstream, landed in Trinidad, capital of the province.

Having made the plane on this route, was clearly, as I expected, the new transit practiced by
me was much shorter, and not as dangerous as the Avocado-Cave.

Moxos Road to Santa Cruz de la Sierra on the Rio Grande and the Rio Piray.

To aim of Loreto, last inhabited point Moxos province, towards Santa-Cruz de la Sierra, you
need to do first, like to go to Cochabamba, a transit three days until the confluence of the rivers
Sara and Mamore. It follows then by the first these rivers, which is none other than the Rio Grande
which numbres change momentarily at the confluence Piray River to the point of their reunion
with the Mamore. Its waters are a contrast rogizas with the crystal of the latter: at rest,
the banks of the river will be present, although lowlands with less, quite the same light; for they
are covered as so that the Mamore Forest varied by the diversity of trees that are composed and
among which the palms palm fronds. Only in the dry season are found to high steep banks of this stream,
meanwhile, the line reached the level to which flood is always marked on the trunks of the trees
near, like unto a rod height from his foot.

At the end of the fifth day, shows the confluence of the creek, called Maraven, which down
the left from the flood plain. On the morning of the sixth day passed the confluence of the
river Ibaba sources are found in beef, in Pampa Grande and Vilches, points to the mountains of
the province of Valle Grande. This current consists of Yapacani Surutú rivers and takes the name
of Ibaba when winding down to the plain, being navigable to the foot of the mountains. After
a day of sailing on the river Sara you get to the confluence of the river Piray. In time the
Jesuits were raised by the river Sara or Rio Grande to the hamlet of payload, located east of Santa
Cruz, but this path, forcing the travelers to give a considerable return, while being not a
little dangerous increasing time because of the floods that completely hide the riverbed of the
river, has been abandoned, will make about fifty years to go but well for the Piray which, but
much more narrow than the Rio Grande, is less prone to devastating floods; reason I prefer it
even in spite of the leaps that often take time to dry. It is likely that when the flimsy canoes
are replaced by steamships, will become to take the Rio Grande, leaving the Piray, less convient
for navigation of large vessels.

In the seventh and eighth days of the journey is the Piray up with a lot of work if the station
is dry, the riverbed of the river, deep enough, of course, is at intervals obstructed by trees
that crowd flows, or by standing at the bottom piers the river, against the often encountered canoes
causing not a few disasters. On the space that is covered in these two days are also some
bridges built by the savages Sirionos [1], who dwell in the surrounding forests, without ever
disturb Moxos natives. To arrive at the eleventh day must be saved on many rapids, formed by
a kind of breaks amarilleja hardened clay, this requires considerable time to lose the need is
to download the canoes so them up in the middle of the stream, pulling them with ropes. Executing
this maneuver, some of the Indians with precision to walk between the water, are often severely
hurt by the sharp sting of armed stripes [2]. These fish are in the queue, parsnips and the
sea coasts of France, a lancet than four inches, very sharp, crooked teeth and trimmed for
that tear in with the meat, causing excruciating pain and often attacks of tetanus: unfortunately
these accidents are common, especially in the headwaters of the rivers. Increasing time, five
or six yards water cover these salient points, and is then passed over them without being I could
see.

In the twelfth day, the forests on the banks of Piray stop suddenly, and are replaced for a swamp
to where two creeks come to be lost, the palace and the pompano, born on the plains of Santa
Cruz de la Sierra. These swamps or marshes to announce that not far from the end of the journey.

The
fourteenth day are passed followed, one after another, four rapids,
not far from where port is presented on the left bank, and has no
more room to a spacious roofed hut of palm leaves from this port,
separate from the hamlet of Four-Eyes by a deep swamp that is a mile
long, you have to walk yet thirty leagues to get to Santa Cruz de
la Sierra.

In the rainy season are used only ten days to make this road, up the Piray, and six days, moving
downstream from Four-Eyes to Loreto.

POPULATION.

If we compare what I said in the first period of history before the arrival Moxos of the Spanish,
trying to find out what they have come to stop those primitive nations
districts, shall find the following results.

The nation of Moxos still occupies the places you lived before, with the only difference meeting to
meet the missions of the province as follows.

Muchojeones del Carmen. 230

  Moxos Baures del Carmen. 362 "Concepcion
  Moxos. 3.126 "San-Joaquin Moxos. 690 "Still
  savages. 1,000 ------ 5,178
                                   
                                              Moxos Moxos of Loreto.

2,145 "Trinidad. 2.604 "San Xavier. 1.515
  "San Ignacio. 1.948 ------ 8,212 ------
  Total. 13,620
  
                                   It looks
                                              as if
                                             this exposition
that almost all of the Moxos is subject to Christianity, there are
still some in the savage state: these (of which a small number belonged
to the missions of the Jesuits time) live set divided into families
Guaporé river not far, and east of the missions and Carmen Concepcion,
without communicating their compatriots never converted.

It is also the relative number of different Moxos tribes, and Muchojeones Baures, and can
calculate the importance that should be, within a country flooded, a nation whose people still
spend thirteen thousand, speaking all Moxo dialect.

Accustomed to obedience, Moxos have a kind nature, sociable, cheerful, and but that all patients,
but the way they are always ready to laugh at the smallest trifle when they are delivered to
themselves, just as slavery has made them shy and silent in the presence of superiors.

These natives have a particular fondness for drawing, which continues to be accompanied with
enough skill: his paintings of animals and plants regularly copied. Sculptors turners, carpenters,
weavers workshops, produced countless curios that have to sell in some cities of Peru. Many
of them have learned Spanish and can write very well: in a word,
the nation of the Moxos is perhaps the most susceptible of civilization.

Among all the Indians of the province, the Moxos are currently Catholics not only more determined,
but that lead to fanaticism so that all years, during Holy Week, they were seen watering public spaces
that draw blood to force lashes. They are also superstitious in the extreme.

The nation of Itonama is totally subdued, and there is not a savage. In 1830, included:

In Magdalena. 2.831 In San-Ramon. 1,984

Total. 4,815

These Indians, whose character I have already spoken more than once
in the previous chapters, preserved inclinations and customs still
primitive, that the Catholic religion could not uproot.

The tissues they make are the best in the province.

       The language is always Itonama used in both missions.

The nation of Canichana entirely Christian, today is the mission of St. Peter. The number of its
population in 1830 amounted to 1939 individuals [1].

These natives have survived until today, in the very heart of the missions, many of its former customs,
and are still the terror of other nations, whose devastated fields stealing bear fruit, but
those to dare to venture a single complaint for fear estramado they have. The Canichana are
rude, and never use a courtesy to strangers. Today its population is less industrious in the province,
and one that feeds on the flesh caiman, for whose capture is worth a thousand tricks.

Profess Catholicism, they could not dispose of countless superstitions salvage their condition:
they are otherwise very bad Christians. The language of that use is the same as their original
state.

We moved the nation of has been assembled by the Jesuits in the mission of Santa Ana: it is not
one salvage it. According to the census of year 1830, its population was two hundred thousand
thirty-eight individuals. These Indians are egercitan in hunting, fishing, navigation and agriculture.
Industry, little more or less equal to that of the Moxos, has not
yet reached same degree of advancement, only exception to the tissues.

No trace remains today because of their primitive religion, however,
often report occasionally they have not forgotten all the superstitions
that were infused before of his conversion.

National language has not changed.
The nation of Cayuvava, fully converted to Christianity, is meeting
this Exaltation in the mission