 When all fled to Paris, he needed to go in the opposite direction. The Senator could
not believe my ears.

- Are you crazy! - He said -. You have to leave Paris, but toward the south. You I say only,
Calella, because it is a secret. We leave at any moment, all we go: the president, the government,
"Chambers. We settle in Bordeaux, as in 1870. The enemy is going to get there: it is a matter
of days ... of hours. We know little of what happens, but all news is bad. The military remains
firm, remains intact, but is removed ... removed, giving way ... Believe me, it's best to leave
Paris. Gallieni will defend, but the defense is going to be hard and painful ... Although falling Paris,
why not drop France. Continue war if necessary to the border of Spain
... But this is sad, very sad!

And he offered to his friend take him in the retreat of Bordeaux,
that few knew in that time.

Desnoyers shook his head. No, he wanted to go to the castle of Villeblanche.

Its furniture ... their wealth ... park.

- But are you going to fall prisoner! - Protested the senator -. Maybe kill him!

A shrug was the answer. Energies are considered to combat all German armies defending their property.
The important thing was installed in it, and anyone who dared to touch yours! ... The senator looked
in amazement to this bourgeois rage by the sense of possession. He remembered the Arab merchants,
humble and peaceful ordinarily, who fight and die like beasts when they're taking over the
Bedouin thieves of their gender.

The moment was not for discussion, everyone should think about their own fate. The senator finally
given the desire of his friend. If such was his pleasure, could accomplish. And got to his influence
that come out that night on a military train that went to meet the army.

This trip was contacted Don Marcelo with extraordinary movement that the war had developed on the
railway. His train took fourteen hours to save a run away two normally. It consisted of boxcars
full of food and ammunition, with doors closed and sealed. A third car was occupied by the escort
of the train: territorial firing.

In a second-Desnoyers was installed, with the lieutenant who commanded this group and several officers
who were to join their regiments after completing mobilization operations manned populations before
the war. Wagons tail containing their horses.

The train stopped many times to give way to others who are full of soldiers put through or returned
to Paris with crowds fugitive. The latter consisted of platforms load, and they huddle together women,
children, seniors, mixed with bundles of clothes, bags and trucks that had served to bring to
the station all that remained their outfits.

Camps were like trailers that are immobile for many hours and even days in the sidings, allowing
free passage to convoys driven by the pressing needs of war. The crowd, accustomed to endless
detentions, overflowed outside train locomotive facilities with dead or scattered by the immediate
field.

At stations of any importance, all avenues were occupied by strings of wagons. The machines, high
pressure to, whistled, eager to leave. Groups of soldiers doubted to the various trains, mistakenly
went down a few cars to be installed in others. Employees, calmly and with an air of fatigue,
going from one side to the other leading to men, giving explanations, having the burden of
mountains of objects. In the convoy carrying Desnoyers to the territorial dozing, accustomed
to the monotonous operation to escort. The charge of the horses had opened the sliding doors
of the cars, sitting on the edge with his legs dangling. The train was going slowly at night,
through shadow fields, stopping at the red lights to warn its presence long whistles. In some
stations had girls dressed in white with ribbons and flags on the chest. Day and night were
there, replaced, not to pass a train without receiving your check.

In baskets and trays offered their gifts to the soldiers, bread, chocolate, fruit. Many, for
fill, tried to resist, but finally had to cede before the frown of the youngsters. To Desnoyers found
himself assaulted by these gifts of patriotic enthusiasm.

He spent much of the night talking with your fellow travelers. The officers were only vague
indications of where they could find their regiments. The operations of the war changed daily situation.
But faithful to duty, went forward, hoping to reach time for the decisive battle. The head of
the convoy had made several trips and was the only one who realized exact withdrawal. Every
time the train was a trip lower. Everyone seemed disoriented. Why withdrawal? ... The army had
suffered setbacks sure, but it was whole, and in his opinion should
seek revenge in the same places.

The retreat left open the enemy's advance. How far would he go back? ... They discussed two weeks
earlier point in their garrisons in Belgium where they would receive adversaries the fatal blow
and why more troops would invade Germany victorious! ...

His disappointment showed no discouragement.

An undetermined but firm hope emerged on their hesitation: Generalissimo was the only one who possessed
the secret of the events. And Desnoyers approved, with the blind enthusiasm which inspired the people
when deposited in them their confidence. Joffre! ... The leader serious and calm it all out eventually.
Nobody should doubt his fortune was of men who say the last word.

At dawn he left the car.

"Good luck." And shook the hands of those young, enthusiastic that maybe they were going to die
soon. The train could be on their way immediately to find free road accident, and Don Marcelo
was seen only in one season. In normal time left it a secondary rail Villeblanche passing by,
but the service was suspended because of staff shortages. The employees had gone to the great
lines, crowded by transport of war.

Vain sought, with the most generous offers, a horse, a cart pulled simple either by a beast,
to continue his journey. The mobilization was monopolizing the best, and other means of transport had
disappeared with the flight of the cowards. Had to do to walk a march of ten miles. The old
man did not hesitate: go!

And he began to walk a white road, straight, dusty plains and equal between that lined up infinity.
Some groups of trees, some green hedges and the roofs of several farms alter the monotony of the
landscape. The fields were covered with crop stubble recent. Haystacks puffed the ground with
their yellow cones, which were beginning to darken taking an oxidized gold tone. At the billboard
shaking birds fluttering spray dawn.

The first rays of the sun announced a hot day. Around the barns saw Desnoyers a flurry of people
who stood up, shaking his clothes and waking up to yet other asleep. Were fugitives who had
camped near the station, waiting a train to take them away, not knowing for sure where they wanted
to go. Some came from distant departments had heard the cannon, had been approaching war, and
carried several days of walking at random. Others, feeling the contagion of this panic, had fled
also, fearing know the horrors ... He saw mothers with small arms; old sore that could only
move with one hand on the stick and another in the arm any of his family crones and motionless
as mummies, lying asleep and traveled in a wheelbarrow.

On waking the sun to this wretched throng looked at each other with stiff gait, stiff even at
night, retracing the same groups the day before. Many advanced towards the station with the hope
of a train that never came to be formed, believed to be more happy on the day was born. Some
continued their way along the tracks, thinking that it would be more conducive luck elsewhere.

Don
Marcelo walked all morning. The white ribbon of road was straight and mottled groups that came
to him in the distance like a string of ants. No one saw Walker to
continue the same direction.

All were fleeing to the South, and to find this lord of the city, which was fine footwear, walking
stick and a straw hat, made a gesture of surprise. I thought maybe an officer, a character,
someone from the government, to see him go it alone to the country they left to impulses of
terror.

At noon he could find a piece of bread, some cheese and a bottle of white wine a tavern on the
road immediately. The owner was in the war, she was moaning in bed. The mother, a rather deaf
old, surrounded by her grandchildren, was at the door this parade
fugitives lasted three days.

"Why run away, sir?" - Said the traveler -. The war only interest to the soldiers. We country people
do not do evil to no one and nothing to fear. "

Four hours later, dropping one of the slopes that form the valley of the Marne, he saw what Villeblanche
away roofs around his church, and emerging from a grove of shale caps finished off the turrets
of the castle.

The village streets were deserted. Just around the square sit saw some women, as in other summers placid
evenings. Half the neighborhood had fled; the other half remained in their homes, sedentary
routine, fooling with blind optimism. If the Prussians arrived, what could they do to them? ...
Obey his orders without attempting any resistance, due to a people who can not punish him ...
Everything was better before to lose some houses built by their ancestors and who had never left.

In
the square he saw, forming a group, the mayor and the principal inhabitants. These, and and
women, watched with amazement the owner of the castle. It was the most unexpected occurrences.
When so many fled to Paris, the Parisian came to join them, sharing their fate. A smile of affection,
a look of sympathy, appeared through its rough bark of rustic suspicious. Desnoyers had long
lived on bad terms with entire people. Roughly maintained their rights, make allowance in
property matters. He spoke many times to process the mayor and send to prison half the neighborhood,
and answered his enemies treacherously invaded their lands, killing their game, overwhelming
legal claims and lawsuits with incoherent ... His hatred of the town
had approximately the priest, to live it in open hostility against
the mayor.

But his relations with the Church were as unsuccessful as their struggles with the state.
The priest was a good-natured, the they found some resemblance to Renan, who only get worried
alms for the poor, bringing its kind to excuse daring marauders of
your property.

How far now the struggle seemed held up to a month before! ... Millionaire experienced a great surprise
to see how the priest, leaving his house to enter the church, passing the mayor greeted with
a friendly smile.

After long years of hostile silence had been found on the afternoon of January. St August at
the foot of the tower of the church.

The bell sounded the alarm to announce mobilization the men who were in the fields. And the
two enemies, instinctively, had narrowed hand. All French! It also unanimously find out loving
the hated lord of the castle. Had to say hello to one side to another, shaking hands hard. People
broke out behind him in loving corrections. "A good man, with no default the violence of his
character ... "And Mr. Desnoyers met for a few minutes the pleasant popularity environment.

Finding
himself in the castle as well spent given the fatigue of travel, that shook their legs. She
had never seemed so big and majestic as the park this evening of summer, never as white swans
glided, double by the reflection on water dead, never so stately building, whose image repeated
inverted mirror of the green pits. Felt the need to immediately see the cattle barns with their
animals, then He glanced at the empty blocks. The mobilization had
taken their best horses of work.

Staff also had disappeared. The charge of the work and several boys were in the military. Throughout
the castle there was only the caretaker, a man over fifty years, sick of the chest, with his family,
consisting of his wife and daughter. The three tended to fill the stalls of cows, milking now
and then forgotten their udders.

Inside the building again to welcome the resolution that had dragged there. How to give up
such riches! ... Looked at the tables, cabinets, furniture, the curtains, all bathed in gold by the glow
dying day, and felt proud possession. This value instilled pride absurd, improbable, as if it were
a being giant from another planet and all mankind around him a simple
anthill I could clear with his feet.

That should come enemies! It was considered strong enough defend all of them ... Then, to snatch
the reason for his heroic frenzy, tried to calm also lacks a solid optimism. Do not come. He
did not know why, but he announced the heart that the enemy would not reach there.

The next morning was spent touring the artificial grass that had formed behind Park, lamenting the
neglect that were by the departure of his men, trying to open gates
to give a watering grass, which was beginning to dry.

The vines align their mass of branches along the fences that served as support. Packed clusters,
coming to maturity, the leaves sticking out their triangles granules. Oh, who collect this wealth!
...

In the afternoon he noticed an extraordinary movement in the village. Georgette, the daughter of
the concierge, brought the news that began to go through the huge main street cars, many automobiles,
and French soldiers, many soldiers. Soon the parade was initiated by a immediate road to the
castle, leading to the bridge over the Marne. Trucks were closed open or still retained their
old commercial signs in the dust layer hardened and splashes of mud. Many of them hold diplomas
of the Paris business, others the corporate name of establishments in the provinces. And together
with these vehicles requisitioned by the mobilization took another from the public service,
causing Desnoyers in the same effect as some friendly faces in a crowd glimpsed unknown. Paris
buses were still kept in top names of his former indicators paths:
Madeleine-Bastille, Passy-Bourse, etc. Perhaps he had traveled many
times these vehicles, faded, aviejados twenty days of intense activity,
with plates dented, twisted irons, sounding as ramshackle and perforated
screens.

Some coaches sported white roundels with the center cut by the Red Cross, others had as a mark
letters and numbers that only the initiated could understand the secrets of military administration.
And in all these vehicles, new and retained only vigorous engines, saw soldiers, many soldiers,
but all injured, with head and bandaged legs, pale faces a beard made it even more tragic eyes Stare
fever, dilated mouths as if they have been frozen in the groan pain. Doctors and nurses occupied
several carriages of the train. Some platoons riders escorting him. Among the slow pace of
automobile frames and groups spent of soldiers on foot, with unbuttoned coat the back slope
or the same as a layer; wounded who could walk and joke and sing, some with an arm swaddled
on chest, another with his head bandaged, transparent through the oozing interior fabric of blood.

The
billionaire wanted to do something for them, but just tried to distribute
some bottles of wine, about bread, the first thing that came handy,
interposed a doctor, apostrophes as if committed a crime.

Your gifts could be fatal. And he had to stay on the edge of way, helpless, sad, dark eyes following
the convoy painful ... Closing the night and no vehicles were loaded with sick men who marched.
He saw hundreds truck, a sealed, with prudence imposed by explosives; some with bundles and
boxes scattered musty smell of food. Then moved large herds of oxen, which swirled in the
narrows of the road, moving forward on the stick and the cries of the shepherds to his vest.

He
spent the night awake by your thoughts. It was the withdrawal of people speaking in Paris, but many
refused to believe, the withdrawal coming up there and continuing to decline indefinite, because
nobody knew what was going to be your limit. The optimism suggested a hope unlikely. Maybe this
retreat included only hospitals, warehouses, all that is parked in
the rear of an army.

The troops wanted to be free of baggage, to move with more agility, and sent away by rail and
road. This was to be. And noise that persisted throughout the night just wanted to guess the pass carloads
of wounded, ammunition, food, equal to those who had marched afternoon.

Near dawn, fatigue made him fall asleep, and woke up late in the day. His first was looking for
the road. He saw it full of men and horses pulling trailers objects. But the men were carrying
guns and battalions, regiments. The beasts dragged artillery. It was an army ... was removed.

Desnoyers
ran to the edge of the road for better convinced of the truth.

Ay! Regiments were like those he had seen from stations in Paris ... but look very different.
The blue coats had become tattered clothes and yellowish red pants with a whitewashed brick color
undercooked; shoes were balls of clay. The face was fierce, with trails of dust and sweat in
all its cracks and crevices, with newly grown beard, sharp as pins,
with a gesture fatigue that revealed a desire to stop, to stay right
there forever, killing or dying, but go a step further.

Walking ... walking ... walked. Some marches had lasted thirty hours.

The enemy was on his tracks, and the order was walking and not battle, waged by the lightness
of feet outflanking attempted by the invader. The heads guessed the mood of his men. Could
require the sacrifice of his life, but marching orders day and night, always fleeing from the enemy
when not considered to be defeated, when they felt inside growl fierce anger, mother heroism!
... The looks of despair looking for the officer immediately to the chiefs, the Colonel himself.
They could not anymore! A huge place, stunned, in a few days, and for what? ... Superiors, who
knew the same thing they seemed to answer with his eyes, as if possessed a secret: "Courage!
Another effort ... This is going to end very soon. "

The beasts, vigorous, but devoid of imagination, resisted less than men. His appearance was deplorable.
How could they be the same horses strong and lustrous hair he had seen in parades in Paris
at the beginning of the month? A twenty year days had aged and exhausted. His eyes seemed
to implore mercy opaque. Were weak, with a thin edges that made their stand and increased bone
bulging their eyes.