 As if the layers would be purchased
the same as buying a newspaper! As if I had one ocena! ...

Promised generous layer the torero with arrogance. The bullfighters are all rich. And while
came the gorgeous gift, was narrowing the privacy, and the "boyfriend" was borrowing her friend, and
if I had money, insisted a jewel, and impulses of trust, was pocketing what was the scope of
his hand, and when she wanted to leave the dream of love, protesting such freedoms, the handsome
demonstrated the vehemence of his passion and became for their legendary
hero prestige by giving it a beating.

Garcia was delighted with this story, especially when the last point.

- So! ... Do it right! - Said with a wild joy -. Hard to these cunts! You the conoses. So you want
more. I ment that can happen to a Christian is to shrink to some women. Haserse man must respect.

Naively
admired the lack of scruples of these young men, who lived to make
contribution the illusions of the foreign way, and he pitied himself
recalling his weaknesses with some women.

These distractions offered treatment with some bullfighters uníase stickiness of some enthusiastic
chasing him with their prayers.

It was an innkeeper of Sales, Galician, of strong muscles, short neck, ruddy color, who made
a small fortune in his tent, where dancing on Sundays servants and soldiers.

He had more than one child, and this boy, small in body and weak texture was destined by his
father to be one of the great figures of bullfighting. The bartender, great Gallardo enthusiast
and all the swords of fame, he had decided so.

- The boy is worth - say -. You know, Mr. John, I understand some of these things. I got me, that
I spent a lot of money for giving career but need a sponsor whether to go forward, and nobody better
than you. If you would like to address a bullfight in which killed the boy! ... Would the
sea of ??people, I would bear all expenses.

This facility to "bear the costs", helping the guy in his career, had caused great losses to the
landlord. But it went ahead, feeling encouraged by the commercial spirit, did you cope with failures
in the hope of huge profits when your child was a killer lineup.

The poor boy, who in his early years had shown hobbies bullfighting, like most of the youngsters
in their class, now a prisoner of enthusiasm could be seen from the father. This was seriously
believed in his vocation, each day discovering new powers in it.

His diffidence of mind was taken as laziness, fear, shame and lack of a bullfighter. A swarm of
parasites, Fans without a profession, not dark bullfighters kept their past another reminder
that queue, agitábase around the tavern, drinking and requesting free small loans for their
advice. Formed together with the father a deliberative assembly, no other purpose than to inform
the public the "star" of bullfighting lost in the dark of Sales.

The landlord, irrespective of talking to your child, organized runs in the streets of Tetouan
and Vallecas, always' own expense. " These places were open outside to all those who felt the
desire to be gored or kicked by a bull at the sight of a few hundred spectators. But the blows were
not free. To roll down the sand, with calzones, stained with blood and dung, you had to pay
the value of entries of the square, taking care the same right or
his representative to put the tickets.

The father filled the space enthusiast friends, handing out tickets peer Guild and poor people
"love."

In addition, paid handsomely to those who were crew with his son, laborers and banderilleros
people recruited from the queue wanders by the Puerta del Sol, which toreaban in street clothes,
while the sword showed himself dazzling deals with her dress. Everything for the race of man!

- Has a new costume, which has done the best tailor, you saw Gallardo and other killers! Seven
thousand real hard for me. I think anyone with this look! ... I have also to me, I am able to spend
every last penny to make career.

If many they had a father like me! ...

Stayed the innkeeper between the barriers during the run, encouraging the sword with his presence
and the gestures of a big stick that never left him.

When the boy rested along the fence, looked like a ghost appear in terror and red chubby face
of his father and head of thick stick.

- Is that why I'm spending the money? Why you're there giving air like a lady? Ten shame bullfighter,
thief! Go out to the media and show off. Oh, if I had your years and was not so heavy! ...

When the boy was at the bull and sword wielding crutch, his face pale and shaky legs, the father
was followed in its evolution from behind the barrier.

He was always before his eyes, like a threatening teacher, soon to correct the slightest carelessness
in the lesson.

What I feared the poor right-hander, shut up in his red silk dress
with big hits gold, was returning home in the afternoon that his father
frowned, showing discontent.

He entered the tavern, covering herself with the rich and dazzling
coat fragments shirt that he escaped through the cracks of the pants,
still aching bones due to rollovers he had given the bull.

The mother, strong woman and bad-looking, ran to him with arms open, touched by the excitement
expected during the afternoon.

- Here you have this bag! - Roared the barman -. Had this been a suitcase.

And for this I'm spending money! ...

Angry rose up the awesome club, and the man dressed in silk and gold,
which had killed shortly before two little beasts, tried to flee,
hiding his face behind his arm, while the mother stood between them.

-
But can not you see is hurt?

- Hurt! - Father exclaimed bitterly,
lamenting that it was not true -.

That's for bullfighters is right. Play it a point to see Satchel and washing ... Wonder how
the will put this thief!

But a few days, the landlord regained his confidence. A bad afternoon anyone has it. Famous murderers
had seen him in public be as bad as your boy. Forward with career!

And organized runs in the streets of Toledo and Guadalajara, appearing as entrepreneurs his
friends, but "at his own cost 'as usual.

His bull-in the old town of Madrid was, according to the bartender, the most famous is had seen.
The sword, by chance, killed two bulls medium, and the public that had gone largely free, applauded
the child from the bartender.

A father appeared out captaining a noisy troop of gulfs.

Just pick to all who wandered around the square and that it had slipped
taking advantage of the lack of vigilance on the doors.

The bartender was a formal man in his dealings. Fifty cents per head, but with the obligation
to shout out, to be hoarse, "Long live the Handyman!" And shoulder the glorious bullfighter just
come out of the ring.

Tinker, still trembling at the recent dangers, he was surrounded,
pushed, lifted high and the noisy rascals, and so carried in triumph
marched from the square to Sales by the end of the Calle de Alcala,
followed by the prying eyes of the people of trams they cut the glorious
manifestation disrespectfully.

The father walked satisfied, the stick under his arm, pretending to be oblivious to this enthusiasm,
but when you let up crying, ran the group head, forgetting all caution, with the rage of a
businessman who not give the genre its share of their money. The same was the sign: "Viva the
Handyman!" And the ovation reanimábase strong bellows.

It had been many months and the landlord moved still remembering the event.

- I brought him home on his shoulders, Mr. John, like you have led
many Sometimes, even bad comparison.

You see if it will be the guy ... Just needs a holder: that you lend a hand.

And Gallardo, to get rid of the innkeeper, he answered with vague promises. Perhaps accept as
to lead the herd. And would be decided later, was long before the winter.

One evening at dusk the sword into the street of Alcala through the Puerta del Sol, gave a step back from
the shock pulse. A blond lady came down from a carriage at the door Hotel de Paris ... Dona Sol!
A foreign man who seemed shook hands, helping to fall, and after speaking a few words away, as she
entered the hotel.

Dona Sol was torero no doubt of their identity. Nor did it question the nature of the relationships
that they should unite with this stranger, after seeing their eyes and the smile with which they
parted. So looked at him and smiled at the happy time when they rode together in the desert
crimson soft meadows illuminated by the setting sun. "Cursed is !...»

Moody spent the night with some friends, then slept badly, seeing many scenes reproduced the past.
When he rose from the balconies came opaque and pale light of a sad day. It was raining, going
together with water snowflakes. Everything was black: the sky, the walls front, dripping eaves that
could see the muddy street paving, roofing car shining like mirrors, movable dome umbrellas.

Eleven.
If you were to see Dona Sol! Why not? The previous night had discarded the thought with some
anger. It was "lowered". Had fled from him without explanation, and then, saberle in danger
of death, was hardly interested in their health. A simple cable in the first moments, and then nothing:
not a bad card for a few lines, she who so easily wrote to friends. No, not go to see it. He was
very man ...

But the next morning his will seemed softened during sleep. "Why not?" he inquired. Needed
to see her again.

For him it was the first woman among all I had known, he was attracted by a force other than
the affection felt by the others. "The I have law ", he told the bullfighter, recognizing their
weakness ... Ay! How he felt the violent separation! ...

Fucking atrocious cut the square in Seville, with the rudeness of
physical pain, despite loving her.

Illness and then his tender approach to Carmen during convalescence had done resigned to his misfortune.
But forget? ... Never. Had made efforts not to remember the past, but the most trivial circumstances,
passing through a road that had galloped alongside the beautiful
Amazon, the encounter on the street with a blonde British, treatment
Seville with those gentlemen who were his relatives, all resurrecting
the image of Donna Sun Oh, this woman ... Not find another like her.

When you lose, believed to have receded Gallardo in its existence. He was not the same. Believed
to be a few rungs lower on the consideration social.

Until attributed to this neglect the failures in his art. When he had her, it was bravest.
When leaving the blonde cunt had started for the bullfighter unlucky. If she return, surely
the glory days reborn. His soul is sometimes argued and overwhelmed sometimes by the illusions
of superstition, believed this firmly.

Perhaps his desire to see her be a happy heart, just like the ones
many times he had saved in the ring.

Why not? ... He had in him great confidence. The easy successes with women dazzled by the success
made him believe in the irresistible charm him. Could it be that Dona Sol, to see him after
a long absence ... Who knows?

... The first Once you were alone it was.

And Gallardo, sure of his good fortune, with the quiet arrogance of
a man of fortune which necessarily has to awaken desire where fix
your eyes, left the Hotel de Paris Just a short distance from him.

He had to wait half an hour on a couch, under the curious eyes of employees and guests, who became
the face when he heard his name.

A servant invited him into the elevator, leading to a saloncillo the first floor to the balconies could
be seen through the Puerta del Sol, dark, with the roofs of houses black, sidewalks found invisible
currents under umbrellas, and Square shining asphalt cut by fast cars, which seemed to whip the rain,
or by tram that intersected in all directions with a constant ringing
that warned bystanders, deaf under the shelter of the dome of cloth.

It opened a little door hidden in the wall paper and appeared Dona
Sol whispers silk, with an intense perfume of fresh and fair, in all
the splendor of summer its existence.

Gallardo devoured her eyes, covering entirely the accuracy of a connoisseur do not forget details.
As in Sevilla!

... No, more beautiful perhaps, with the temptation a long absence.

Presented in elegant abandon, wearing a robe with strange, exotic jewelry, as who saw him first
at his home in Seville. The feet were stuck in slippers covered with thick gold, which she sitting,
crossing legs, were as loose close to escape from the thin limbs.

He held out his hand, smiling coldly polite.

- How are you, Gallardo?

... I knew I was in Madrid. I've seen.

You! ... Gone were the familiarity of a great lady, whom he corresponded
with respectful treatment of lower-class lover.

This "you", which seemed to match them, desperate to sword. Wanted be in the form of a servant lifted
by love into the arms of the great lady, and looked treaty with the
cold and courteous consideration that inspires a common friend.

She explained how she had seen Gallardo by attending the only run
that he had given in Madrid.

Bulls had gone to a foreigner eager to learn things in Spain a friend who accompanied her on
her journey, but lived in another hotel.

Gallardo replied to this with a nod. I knew this stranger; I had seen her.

They were both in long silence, not knowing what to say. Dona Sol was the first to break this
pause.

The sword was looking good, She remembered vaguely a great fuck she
had suffered: was almost certain to have telegraphed asking Sevilla
news.

With that life bearing, changing countries and new friends, was in such confusion memories!
... But I see now as ever, and in the race had seemed arrogant and
strong, though a bit unhappy.

She did not understand much of bulls.

- It was not that fuck? ...

Gallardo was irritated by the tone of indifference which made her question the woman. Y him, when he
felt between life and death, had only thought of it! ... With a sullenness of despair, he spoke
of his fucking and convalescence, which lasted all winter ...

She listened with feigned interest, as his eyes showed indifference. Nothing mattered the misfortunes
of one fighter ... They were accidents of his office, that only he could be interested.

Gallardo, speaking of his convalescence at the farm, he felt a similar memories came to his
mind the image of a man who had been together and he Dona Sol.

-
What Plumitas?

Nah, you Remember that poor? ... He was killed. I do not know if
it Nah, you know.

Dona Sol also vaguely remember this.

Perhaps he had read in newspapers Paris, who spoke much of the bandit, as an interesting kind
of quaint Spain.

- A poor man - "Dona Sol with indifference -. I just remember him as a farmer boorish and uninteresting.
From a distance you see things in their true value. I do remember is the day he had lunch with
us at the farm.

Gallardo also had memory of this event. Plumitas Poor! With what emotion
was saved a flower offered by Dona Sol!

... Because she had given a flower to say goodbye bandit it ... Do not you remember ?....

Dona Sol's eyes showed a sincere astonishment.

- Are you sure? - Asked -. Is it true? I swear that I do not remember anything ... Ay, the land
of sunshine! The intoxication of the picturesque! The nonsense that
does!

...

His exclamations showed true repentance. Then he laughed.

- And it's easy to keep it that poor laborer flower until the last moment, right, Gallardo?
Do not tell me you do not.

He would not have given a flower in her life ... And it is possible also on his body found
that dried flower, as a reminder that no mysterious has been explained ... Do not you know
anything about this, Gallardo? Do not say anything in the papers? ... Shut up, do not say no,
not my dreams fade. So it must be: I want to do so. Poor Feathers! How interesting! And I had
forgotten what the flower! ... I will tell my friend that she would write about things of Spain.

The
memory of this friend, who in a few minutes came a second time in
conversation, saddened by the bullfighter.

Stared at the beautiful lady with her eyes Africans, tearful melancholy that seemed to beg
for mercy.

- Doña Zol! ... Doña Zol! - Desperate accent whispered, as if reproached for their cruelty.

- What, sir? - She asked smiling -. What happens to you?

Gallardo stayed silent and hung his head, intimidated by the ironic
reflection of those clear eyes, trembling with gold dust.

Then he rose as adopting a resolution.

- Where has this Nah, you in this time too, Dona Zol? ...

- For the world - she answered simply -. I am a bird of passage. In a number of cities you do not know
or name.

- And this stranger who now accompanies ... is ...

- A friend - she said coldly -. A friend who has been kind enough to accompany me, taking advantage
the opportunity to visit Spain, a man worth a lot and has an illustrious
name.

Hence we go to Andalusia, where he finished seeing the museum. What more do you want to know?
...

This question, made with pride, it felt a compelling desire to keep the matador at a distance,
to establish between the two social differences. Gallardo was taken aback.

- Doña Zol! - Moaned naivety -.

What Nah, you made me They have no forgiveness from God. Nah, you has yes or poor me, poor mu ...
Why fled without saying a word?

And his moist eyes, clenching his fists in despair.

- Do not put
you well, Gallardo.

What I did was a great good for you ... Do not you know me still pretty? Is not he tired of
that season? ... If I were a man, women would flee my character. The unfortunate fall in love
with me is like committing suicide.

- But why did he Nah, you? - Insisted Gallardo.

- I left because I was bored. Do I speak clearly? ... And when a person is bored, it makes right to
escape, looking for new amusements.

I get bored to death everywhere, have I pity.

- But I love you with my gun toa! - Said the bullfighter with a dramatic expression naive and would
have done laughing at another man.

- The love you with my gun toa!
- Repeated Dona Sol, mimicking his accent and his manner -. What about
it? ... Oh, those selfish men who are applauded by the people and
imagine that everything has been created for them! ... "I love you
with all my heart, and that's enough so you have to love me too ...
"No, sir. I do not love you, Gallardo. Is You are a friend and nothing
more. The other, of Seville, was a dream, a crazy whim, from which
I hardly remember, and you should forget.

The matador stood up, approaching
the woman with outstretched hands. In his rudeness did not know what
to say, guessing that his words were clumsy ineffective to convince
this girl. He hoped to action, with a vehemence of impulse, desires
and hopes, trying to possession of women, attracted to him, removing
contact with the coldness between them.

- Doña Zol! - Pleaded spreading
their hands.

But she, with a simple back of his fast right hand,
pulled the arms of the bullfighter. A glow of pride and anger passed
over her eyes, and threw the bust forward aggressively, as if she
had to suffer an insult.

- Quiet, Gallardo! ... If you follow and
will not be my friend and put it in the door.

The bullfighter went
from action to discouragement, staying in a humble attitude and ashamed.
So spent a long time, until finally Dona Sol Gallardo pity.

- Do
not be a child - he said -. What I remember is no longer possible?
Why do you think me? ... You have your wife, and I'm told, is beautiful
and simple, a good companion. And if not her, others. Imagine if there
pretty girls back in Sevilla, the shawl and flowers in the head, so
I liked those before, they will look like a happiness to be loved
by Gallardo ... My thing is over. You hurt him in his usual famous
man orgullito the successes, but it is, it's over, friend and nothing
more. I am nothing. I get bored and not never go back on my feet.
The illusions of me only last a short time, and pass without trace.
I am worthy of pity, believe me.

Looked at with eyes of pity torero,
sensing in them a curious plaintive, as if he suddenly saw all its
faults and toughness.

- I think things you would not understand -
he continued -. I find you another. The Gallardo Seville was different
from here. What is it you? ... No doubt, but for me it other ... How
do you explain this? ... In London I met a Raja ... Do you know what
is a rajah?

Garcia shook his head, blushing for his ignorance.

-
He is a prince in India. 

The billionaire former ambassador reminded
the Hindu, his face shaded by a whisker copper black, white turban,
big, thick and with a bright glare on the front and the rest of the
body draped in garments dawns, and multiple subtle veils, similar
to petals of a flower.

- It was beautiful, I was young, I loved your
eyes mysterious animal of the jungle, and I however, it was ridiculous
and I laughed at him every time he stammered in English a their compliance
Eastern ... Shivering, coughing made him the mist, moving as a bird
in the rain, waving their veils as well as if they were wings wet
... When I spoke of love, looking at me with his wet eyes of a gazelle,
made me want to buy a coat and a hat for no more tremble. And yet,
I recognize that it was beautiful and happiness could have done for
a few months of a woman eager for something extraordinary. It was
a matter of environment, a scene ... You, Gallardo does not know what
that is.

Dona Sol was remembering the poor Rajah thoughtful, always
trembling with cold, with ridiculous clothes, under the hazy light
of London. He saw in imagination beyond its country, transformed by
the power and majesty of the sun. Its coppery complexion, with reflections
green tropical vegetation, taking a bronze tone art