 

With the multitude of these headlines, though not safe, that was sent to form a board of ship
captains and colonels who existed in Montevideo, to recognize, indicate their opinion on the
utility or futility that caused the prosecution to the Crown establishments. All unanimous, it is
said, were for the latter: such proofs I was the cause.

With these documents and decisions, without waiting for other result, that experience and findings could be
described as honest or to be unfounded, they sought to impress the real spirit of the King
and his wise minister, whose result was the royal order of 1. st August last year next, sending
establishments leave San Julian and San Jose, and that only subsist the Black River, reduced to the
sad skeleton that expresses the Viceroy Lord could stay.

On their way to Spain, these justifications, arrived in the Bay of San Julian to the Montevideo
Plaza Super-intendant D. Antonio de Viedma, and presented an information, that his motion was the
captain of infantry D. Felix Iriarte, composed of residents of that colony, in that together
they declare, in reference to what is experienced in the fruits their
fields, that those lands were productive to maintain the population.

The Super-intendant of the Black River, with the wheat crop this year, which amounted to 1269 bushels
and three pages, credited the population could survive with its fruits, and as a result recognition
of that river, which launched the second pilot of the royal fleet, D. Basil Villarino, going up
near Valdivia, proportions of the place which he walked, hopes that promised the rivers that were
to recognize, and soon discovered that made lieutenant of infantry D. José de Salazar, opening
the way by land from the port San Jose to the river, in office from October 13 of that year, presented
to the Viceroy Lord important of the two establishments, founded the reasons and motives in
the latter result, which it rejected the objections of the reports and opinions, and at the
same time manifesting profits that could be drawn from them. But like everything came late,
not enough to contain the unfortunate fate suffered, that, though not as unhappy as those
of Sarmiento in Strait of Magellan, had almost as useless expenses, work loss and deaths that
cost to carry the state in which they were at the time of abandonment; San Julian as the rooms had
already repaired some comfort in inclement of time, which caused scurvy cut coat of many cold
of that climate. Began producing their land, to keep off, the Indians were going every day taming and
fans of ours, so with good reason could be expected to reduce within a few years of these idolaters
the bosom of our Holy Faith, and by this means that King had the new populations of these natural,
serving for one example of their neighbors to such a holy purpose.