 The book, beautifully printed in Almería, is entitled Quitolis,
and the author, D. Jose Jesus Garcia, will qualify for novels. Novel it seems to me effect,
but candidly told with strange and seemingly with so little art, which has traces, rather
than something imagined or invented, faithful relationship that true and Event have actually
occurred.

The protagonist of the novel, Father John, who gave a nickname Quitolis, has lived without doubt,
but in its being there is plenty of symbolic and enigmatic. Without ambition, without avarice,
without appetite or desire to disturb you and take you in pursuit of earthly things, Father
Juan is like an innocent angel from heaven, who has taken human form and body. Only loving affection
with which she watches her mother and cares for her, she refers uniquely
to others beings.

Father Juan protected by a marquise devout and Mr Master, who admire
and recognize virtue and science, live without trouble, and modestly
with the product of their masses and the special Latin lessons which
gives many children.

There is hardly entangling sets in this novel. It's all psychological. The contemplation of
sky, sea and fields otean from a solitary walk apart and where the
father John is going journal, raises his mind at very lofty areas:
beyond the visible universe, to the supreme cause, which gives being
and fills him, penetrates and illuminates everything.

The prudish shy of Don Juan, the horror that inspired the idea of ??disturbing the peace conscience
and his love of order and calm, forbid us to perceive or to make
it clear quite clearly the vague and wonderful concept of God, which
has arisen in his soul, that grabs in the ecstasy and the supernatural
and otherworldly love.

The fame of holiness and the innocent and kind indulgence of Don Juan, makes them boys and girls,
educated with the greatest caution, those who come to confession to him, in the tribunal of
penance. The optimism of Don Juan and his happy way to see how exists as through a prism to
pink, come to be corroborated by the goodness of his penitents. Just suspect or suspect's father
wants John the existence of moral evil and physical evil.

The wrath of God is incomprehensible to him. God's justice fades in his infinite mercy.

The feeling and thinking of Father John van unfolding, with great stealth, as intimate secrets of
his soul.

It seems that the author of the novel, like his hero, afraid of what he thinks and feels; does
not have the slightest desire to disclose, and only by blending style and are undecided represents
it to himself.

From here you miss I came to decide to what extent Quitolis and writing its history is in germ a
heretic: the extent to which God has allowed and has also raised
Chanig devil a Fox or a damper on the largely Catholic city of Almeria.

Investigating theologians can say about this, if they believe the case deserves it. I will say
only that the novel I like and that I have read twice, with increasing interest, increased by the
same indefinite vagueness of thought Quitolis mysterious.

The canon, which was to preach on the day of the Virgen del Carmen, falls ill and mandates
Quitolis, whose science and admired religious fervor, it is he who preached that day, although
until then had never preached. Without prior written study comes and goes to the pulpit Quitolis.
And moving there for the genius or spirit that stirs inside him,
delivers a sermon eloquent loving God and neighbor, that delights
and moves the crowd devout, which is not the slightest suspicion or
heresy, and that offends and angers the canons the chapter.

Has anything emerged in the remote town where these events occur a brand reformer of the Church: a
Savonarola, if not a Luther?

"Quitolis', however, does not want to be nothing of this.

If something is wrong, is ready to back down. The bishop acknowledged his innocence and sympathizes
with good intentions. But it induces return to their silence and retirement and not to preach
in the future to not arouse the anger or the anger of the clergy.

Become "Quitolis" the dark, kept in the center of his soul his reformist ideas, fed poorly defined
by the novelist, while or want to be as indecisive or early dawn light, if not a new religion,
a broad interpretation and something that rationalist we officially.

"Quitolis" then goes blind. Its reputation attracts benign saint and his confession, and no children
and virgins, but the fine peat outrageous and lascivious sinners. Cleaning your naive optimism
is stained with the black mud of the world. And resigned and sad, Sweet but always full trust in
God, dies in the end "Quitolis' dies also its old woman and mother
and the novel ends.

Almost nothing in it what is called entanglement or argument. It all comes down to the painting
of a strange character. I do not know if the author, by skill or instinct is right not to
identify with "Quitolis" no longer answer than "Quitolis" felt and thought.

If not make sure I do not welcome this novel, where again there is but few hauls People read
it carefully. I will just say that I was interested to read a lot. I am not, nor pretend to
be, defining to convict or acquit the very ideas that the author evenings attributed the novel's
protagonist, but I welcome the talent of the author's observation
study a human soul, perhaps lost, but egregious and pure, and I am
also feeling encourages religious pages of your book.

    Of the faults that are or may be in it, I absolve the author, because
I have the leeway.

I say, as the God who imagine Goethe in "The Prologue in Heaven"
from his "Faust":

"It IRRT der Mensch so lang er strebt."

LA GOLETERA

BY ARTURO REYES

In the fictional fictions I confess I am somewhat prejudiced against men and women from the
lowest rabble, that fit the buskin, shown possessed of passions and sublime sentiments, and
characters come to be worthy of real tragedies and picaresque adventures not as Rinconetey Cortadillo
or parodies like The Manolo, The Muñuelo, Inesilla the Pinto and Pancho and crust. And not
because I believe that the concept of highest virtues and strong ability to exercise them require
education esmeradísima and long studies. Fortunately for science knowledge is necessary to go
to school or read many books, and to perceive, judge, or create artistic
beauty, without aberrations in bad taste, also requires preparation
and education, while for the knowledge of good and bad, just need
one rack your brains.

    In the Christian society
    and cultured Nowadays, it almost seems infused, the innate or intuitive
knowledge.

We can say with the great playwright:

A science will the study makes them wrong.

And yet, if taken as per system that girls raised in the stream and parishioners infect the most neighborhood
taverns worse, become paragons of honesty, honor, heroic courage, suffering stoic and many are or
may be the moral excellence to beautify the human soul, we may go so far as to imagine that the
superior culture, welfare, cleanliness, elegance and wealth, weaken
the strength and goodness of their hearts, and estimated to be morally
right is necessary to descend to the level closest to the wild from
our refined civilization of the day.

Thus, by dint of wanting to be a Democrat and philanthropist, the writer can fall into the
trap of being reactionary.

There is also in the novels tavern adorned with the finest sublime, a overcome enormous difficulties
and is rarely beaten: combining the language, if not thuggish, vulgar and uneducated, with
an elevated style, suitable to express the finer feelings and nobles. And since this is rarely achieved,
the dialogues are full of mannerism, of falsehood and dissonance. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
as general doctrine, against which I too have sinned, leaving me
the power to write some novels, I am pleased to declare here that
I have come forward to recant and abjure the general doctrine mentioned
reading The Goletera, D. Arturo Reyes.

Advantageously was known and justly celebrated as the young Malaga,
and for its beautiful poetry, for its graceful prose tales, and novels
Cartucherita and The Winery La Viñuela.

His latest book, The Goletera, is, in my opinion, to confirm its reputation as a novelist reaching
for his diploma and title of an excellent writer.

Trini, his heroine, it seems, not by imitation but by coincidence, the lady of Calderon in the
comedy entitled Nothing is as quiet, but Trini is nobler, more loving,
more real and more humane than the lady of Calderon.

Better than she feels, thinks and behaves Trini. Y if by wonderful, Trini is expressed without
convoluted sentences without tiquis Miquis gorgeous, plain speech and a common village woman.

As
the maid of no such thing as silence, Trini has been the victim of violence by a man but, with
equal honesty and sensitivity that the lady, if Trinidad does not grant his love to any other
gallant, was considered dishonorable, it is still far superior to the lady, because he falls
in love another and struggle with his fiery passion and despise those who pretend to love her
and who she is smitten. The Adventures of Trini returns Buenos Aires, where he has spent years
and where he has won enough money. Wants to repair his fault, Trini marrying, but this is not
like the lady Calderon, who accepts the trickster as a husband, because just think of restoring
his honor and because nobody loves. Trina loves another and rejects the deceiver, which does not
inspire love, but disgust.

The man who loves Trini is excellent and very jealous of his honor. Trini does not nor should deceive.
And Trini can not join him, while he lives the man who mocked and under whose eyes would die
of shame.

The cases and sets where the author comes to resolving this conflict can not be imagined or more
naturally presented, credibility, increasing interest and astonishing wit. The lover, loved by Trini mysteriously,
knows that she loves him and knows his disgrace and who been the
cause of it all for an involuntary disclosure of the Trini, which
was decided to shut up, even kill her silence, not to cause a bloody
struggle between the two rivals, both brave and suffered little.

The revelation once made by credible media, arranged with exquisite art, makes conflict inevitable.

The
two rivals take the field and stabbed quarrel. The quarrel is vigorously described. Dies in it
the trickster, who in the last moments and scenes from his life has been generous and friendly.
Thus ends the novel. Although the author does not say, and does not speak well and to finish
where it ends, the reader can assume that, not punished by law, because their said that his
dying rival was another killer, whose black treachery has caused
the quarrel, the Trini lover victor and finally marries her after
having avenged.

Whole story, dialogues ingested it, and the various incidents, which
are omitted here and in a manner so masterly and skilful leading to
the outcome, interest, stir and take over with such a spell of mind
of the reader, which surely will not leave the book until I just read.

THE EXEMPLARY NOVELS OF CERVANTES

BY FA DE ICAZA

In the open competition and ordered by the Athenaeum, a contest in which judges were Messrs.
D. José Echegaray, D. Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo, D. Rafael Salillas,
D. Cota and Emilio Mori and D. Ramón Menéndez Pidal, was awarded the
book of account given here in brief.

It is your D. Author Francisco A. de Icaza, the first Secretary of the Legation in Madrid which
is the Republic Mexican, and well known and respected in the letters by some work of scholarship
and criticism and elegant and beautiful poetry.

It's so unique merit and worth of Don Quixote, all other works he
wrote Miguel de Cervantes, are far lower this unique and breathtaking
creation.

Cervantes, however, and in La Galatea as the Persil, in many verses and even in their comedies
and farces, gives clear evidence of his brilliant wit and manages
to put the individual label that characterizes it distinguishes and
elevates him above the crowd of writers of his contemporaries.

The novels are certainly examples of works that, after Don Quixote, the more originality talent
and grace shows manco de Lepanto.

The book by Mr. Icaza proves this truth, after a careful and thoughtful consideration of the matter,
with keen observations and data with great copy, diligently collected and sorted with art. Therefore
it is clear that Cervantes can be regarded as inventor of the modern novel of manners and character.
The books of chivalry, the pastoral novels and even the picaresque is another thing: they are a long
series of adventures, without unity of action the life of someone who is great and portrays the
writer from his birth until his death.

Before Cervantes was also something we might call historical novel or relationship of events
that, if history of severe declines, they are not feigned by the novelist, but based on some reality,
beautified and adorned by the fancy of the vulgar, whose inventions then the time-honored tradition
and to some extent permitted.

So the Abencerraje, de Villegas, and civil wars of Granada, Ginés Pérez de Hita.

Short stories, finally, and stories of Italian, French and English, including in the Decameron of
Boccaccio, are very different from the novel cervantesca. Have an event, refer haul, tragic or comic,
sad or happy, but without looking at the painting of manners and the living representation of human
characters and passions.

In this setting, and this helps to paint the author of Extremadura jealous of Rinconetey Cortadillo,
of the famous mop of The Gitanilla and almost all other novels, examples of where through its psychological
acuity, new or rarely used before in this genre of fiction, Cervantes is to be the father
or the founder of the novel, as we conceive of and understand in the day. For demonstration
of this truth, which presupposes a claim highly original Cervantes, Mr. Icaza review and judge all
his novels, as critics have referred to that of them from their contemporaries
today, disputes the light trials Huet, Florian and other, proves the
lack of merits of the accusations launched by Estala plagiarism and
Bosart and demonstrates the powerful influence they have exercised
the novels of Cervantes in our Spanish drama, abroad and in the same
novel, which neglected among us sick for nearly two centuries, flourished
and gave spicy fruit in France, England and other countries, whence
he returned to Spain greatly increased in wealth, but not to be forgotten
Spanish origin as it has.

There is no going into details in this short little article or give
exact idea of ??how well studied that is the question by Mr. de Icaza,
and rectal approach, uncommon knowledge and uncommon diligence that
displays and looks to treat you.

GOOD CLOTH ...

NOVEL BY JF MUÑOZ Pabon PRIEST

If I understand correctly and if not remember, the famous French novelist Emile Zola says a good
novel must be the exact representation of lived experience, seen
and understood to through a temperament. Zola forgets or neglects
the main thing: imagination, or is the active force that represents
well the lived and what has been seen and observed. Do not just look
and observe: it is necessary to reproduce or recreate it using a word
and by virtue fantasy