 This Don Mateo'll talk later.

Then let it be known that in such a tracery of theater represented the same dramas and comedies
that the Prince and the operas were sung at La Scala in Milan. "It seems incredible, eh? Nothing
more true.

    There he first heard the narrator of this
    story those famous verses:

If you hear tell the story of a castaway, Since the earth to the love you miss ...

Certainly that seemed excellent, and the theater a marvel of luxury and good taste. All in the
world depends on the imagination. Hopefully I had so much alive and as fresh as ever to entertain you
nicely several hours. It has also seen the Don Juan Tenorio.

And their late wheat flour-smeared, his commander filtering through a door tied with string,
his hell in spirit of wine and her apotheosis of paper lining trunks, was impressed so that
he could not sleep that night.

In the room going, more or less, as in the most magnificent theaters of the Court. However, it is
generally attended by more than they show.

We had not reached that higher level of refinement, by which actions must be pleasant contrast to the
place where they run, verbi-grace, chat in the theater laughing in the churches, go serious
and silent, and pathetic in the ride, as, fortunately, in Madrid. I do not know if Sarri贸 have
already climbed to the present time this step of civilization.

Neither created missing some spirits so lucid that was ahead of his time and sensed what was to be
the theater in time. Pablito Belinch贸n was one of them. Had always paid in the company of three or four
friends, the proscenium stage. From there spoke to other older gentlemen, subscribers in the
box opposite: they said jokes, made fun of the treble or bass, and threw candy and paper darts.
Certainly the public of the seats, still outside the refinements of civilization, used to silence
them savagely with a strong chicheo.

The most important families were accustomed to enter in those boxes hypocritical after the curtain
opened with the same solemnity that if they entered a theater audience at the Royal, and cash
with a lot more noise. Not can well imagine the horrid crack that gave him back to be pushed,
and that drop seat with the intention of attracting attention.

Say if the family currently makes her grand entrance in one of them and remains stand shedding coats,
while the spectators amused for a moment view of the scene and fix them, until they feel. They
are the lords of Belinch贸n. The head of the family, Don Rosendo, is a tall, thin, bent at the
spine, bald pate, small and sunken eyes, large mouth, which was contracting with a smile Mephistopheles,
showing two rows of teeth long and equal, the most complete work of some established dentist in
a few months ago Sarri贸. Spend short sideburns and mustache, and represents sixty years of
age. Is known for the first merchant of the town and one of the first importers of cod from the Cantabrian
coast. For many years monopolized entirely Wholesale sales of this article, not only in the
village, but throughout the province, and thanks a result had gained a considerable fortune.
His wife, Dona Paula ... But why is just so long awake in the theater sound to your appearance?
The good lady, listen, is shaky and unclear, it fails to get rid of the coat, and his daughter
Cecilia is required to remove it and tell the ear: - Sit down, Mom! He sits, or rather, is dropped
on the bench and run a stray from the public gaze, while his cheeks
Live crimson stain.

In vain attempts fanning herself with verve and calm. Nothing: the
more efforts made by turbulent blood away from the face, put the damn
harder to hold that visible.

- Mom, what color you are! - Venturita
tells his youngest daughter, struggling not to laugh