 I do not understand how you can live here.

In a given these withdrawals to the Navy was determined to be Ulysses. Beginning the summer,
the boy was free from school for three months, and the notary, who could not get away from the city, vacationing
with his family on the beach of Cabañal, cut ditches smelly negligible beside the sea. The
little peaky and weak showing for his studies and thoughts.

His uncle would make him strong and agile as a dolphin. And at the expense of rude obstinacy, could
wrest Dona Cristina.

The first thing he admired Ulysses entered the doctor's house were three frigates that adorned the
ceiling of the dining room, three wonderful boats, which were not lacking sailing, pulley, rope
and anchor, and they could take to the seas at any time with a crew of Lilliputian.

Were the work of his grandfather Ferragut pattern. Eager to free his two children from bondage
marine long centuries weighed on the family, had sent to the University
of Valencia for them to be lords of land inside.

The eldest, Stephen, just ended his career obtained a notary in Catalonia. The youngest, Antonio, became
a doctor for not antagonizing the old but once achieved the title, came to serve on an ocean liner.
His father had closed the door of the sea, and he came through the window.

Aging pattern was completely alone. I took care of their property, a few vineyards staggered
on the coast, within sight of the house. He was in frequent correspondence with his son the notary.
Now and then came a letter from the child, the favorite, from distant countries only knew by
reputation the old sailor Mediterranean.

And the large inertia in the shade of her bower, against the bright blue sea, the building entertain
their little ships. All were large-size frigates and daring sails. So he consoled the pattern
of not sending in his life but heavy and robust lutes, equal to the ships of other centuries,
in which Cette came to wearing or carrying prohibited items in Gibraltar and the coast of Africa.

Ulises
soon realize the popularity rarely enjoyed Dotor his uncle, a popular composed of the most antagonistic
elements.

The people were smiling when talking about him as if he they had to be mad, but these smiles
only dared to unfold when he was away, because Everyone inspired some fear. At the same time
admired him as a local glory.

There Run all the seas, and also had his strength, his disorderly
and boisterous force, terror and pride of their neighbors.

The guys went for the test on the strength of his fists pressing with the crew of ships English that
came to load raisins, evoked the name of the physician as a consolation if defeat.

- If you were here Dotor!

... Half a dozen Englishmen are few for him.

There was no powerful company, and it was crazy, that does not believe
him capable.

Inspired the faith of the saints and masters miraculous bold. In some calm winter mornings and sunny,
people ran to the shore, looking forward to the lonely sea. Veterans warming themselves around the sun,
next to the boats in dry, to tend his eyes, accustomed to the survey of enlarged horizons,
we could see an almost imperceptible, a grain of sand dancing to the whim of the waves.

All issued to cry out their guesses.

It was a buoy or a piece of mast, remains a distant shipwreck. For women it was a drowned corpse
floating the swelling was the same that a skin, having spent many days between two water ...

Suddenly came an assumption that everyone flummoxed. "If you will Dotor!" Long silence ... The
wooden piece took the form of a head, the body was moved. Many came to distinguish bubbling foam
around its breast, advancing like a bow, and vigorous blades from his arms ... Yes it was the
Dotor! Lend to each other the old glasses to recognize their beards deep in the water, his
face contorted with the effort or dilated by snorting.

And the bank stepped Dotor dry, naked and shameless serenely like a god, shaking hands among men,
while women screamed taking the apron to a single eye, terrified and admired at the time of
his suspension monstrosity that scattered at every step a spray of droplets.

All the ends of headland inspired him the desire to bend to swim like dolphins; all bays and
inlets need to measure them with their arms, as an owner who doubts of the measurement and correcting
others to assert their right of possession. He was a human vessel that had been cut with the bottom
of his heart the swirling foam on the rocks and Pacific waters, sizzling
at the bottom of pearly fish between branches and drifting stars like
flowers.

He had sat down to rest on the black rocks with algae kilts his head sticking out or the sink, to the
caprice of the wave, waiting for the night and the ship coming to break blind as a shell. Had penetrated
the same as a marine reptile in certain caves of the coast glacial lakes, dormant illuminated
by mysterious openings, where the atmosphere is black and transparent
water, the swimmer has the bust of ebony and glass legs.

In the During these swimming ate every living creature that was glued to the rocks or moving
antennas and arms. The friction of the big fish fleeing cowards, with violence projectile,
made him laugh.

In the night hours passed before the boats of his grandfather, Ulysses heard of Peje Nicolao,
a man-fish from the Strait of Messina, cited by Cervantes and other authors, who lived in the
remaining water from the alms of the vessels. His uncle was some relative of Peje Nicolao.
Sometimes mentioned to some Greek, to see her lover, went to swim all night the Hellespont. And he knew
the Dardanelles, wanted to return there as a mere passenger, for
that was not a poet named Lord Byron had only imitated the legendary
voyage.

The books in his house, the charts stuck on the walls, the bottles and jars full of sea animals
and plants, and most of all it tastes, which clashed with the customs of their neighbors had given
him a reputation as a mysterious sage, a Warlock prestige.

All who were healthy you were crazy, but I just felt some grief in health, breathing the same faith
that the poor women who stayed at home long hours of Doctor, seeing his boat in the distance, hoping
to return from the sea to teach children patients who had been in
arms.

On the other doctors had the merit of not receiving their services; rather, many patients came from
his home with coins in their hands.

The Dotor was rich, the richest in the country, and he did not know what to do with your money.
Daily her servant - an old woman who had served his father and known to his mother - got their
hands fisheries necessary to the maintenance of the two, with a royal generosity. The Triton, which
had hoisted his sail at dawn, landed before eleven, and the purple bay lobster on the embers,
spreading a sweet perfume, the bubbling pot, thickening the broth with fat succulent of the Scorpid,
sang the oil in the pan, covering the pink skin the mullet, creaking
under the knife urchins and clams, shedding their pulp still alive
in the boiling of the pot.

Furthermore, in the corral a cow bellowing filled udders and dozens
of hens cackling relentless fertility.

The flour kneaded by the servant and coffee thick as mud was all acquired Triton with their
money. If you wanted a bottle of rum to the back of a swimming was to use their content rubs.

Once a year the money coming through their doors. The girls spread vintage by the steps of his
vines, cut the clusters of small and tight grain. Then tended to dry in sheds called riurraus.
This produced fine passes, preferred by the British for making their
puddings.

The sale was certain: the North Sea ships came to look. And the Triton, seeing in their hands
five or six thousand pesetas, was perplexed, wondering inwardly what can a man with so much money.

-
All this is yours - said his nephew to show the house.

Also own the boat, books and antique furniture, in which was concealed drawers Costume candid
money that attracted attention.

Despite being proclaimed master of all around him, a loving and harsh
despotism weighed on Ulysses.

His mother was far away, that good lady who shut the windows his step and not let him leave without
having tied the scarf to the accompaniment of kisses.

When sleeping better, thinking that he still had many hours a night,
he felt aroused leg by a violent jerk.

His uncle could not play otherwise. "Up, boy!" In vainly protested, with the profound sleepiness
of his youth ... Was or was not the 'cat' in I had the boat captain and unique medical crew?
...

The claws of the uncle standing exposed to the salty air puffs that went in the window. The sea
was dark and veiled by a slight haze. The last stars shone with flashes of surprise, ready to flee.
In the leaden horizon opened a rift, reddening at times, like a wound to which the blood flowing.
Downstairs in the kitchen, steaming coffee between two cookies as a sailor. The 'cat' of ships loaded
with several empty baskets.

Front marched him as a warrior pattern of the waves, taking the oars
on his shoulder.

Your feet marked in the sand a fast track. Behind them, the people began to awaken. About the
dark waters glided like shrouds the sails of the fishermen fleeing offshore.

Two vigorous strokes separated the small dock his boat rocks. After going through the edges
unleashing the candle, preparing the strings, making the boat lying on an edge under their iron
plants. Canvas squeaky and swelled up with white convexity. "You we are, now to run. "

The water began to sing, sliding on both sides of the bow. Between this and the edge the candle could
be seen a piece of black sea and slowly appear on its edge, a big box red. The brow became a
cap, then in one hemisphere, then in an Arabic arch strangled down until he finally took off from
the liquid mass as well as a pump, flashes of fire pouring. The gray clouds were bloodied, the
rocks of the costs began to shine like copper mirrors.

Were extinguished by the recent land stars. A swarm of fish coleaba fire to the bow, forming
a triangle with the vertex on the horizon. The foam was pink mounds, as if his white reflecting
a submarine eruption.

- Bon dia! - Ulysses shouted the doctor, busy warming his hands, numbed by the wind.

And touched by the childlike joy of dawn, threw his bass voice across the sea silence, sometimes
singing sentimental ballads heard in his youth to a soprano zarzuela
dressed boy, repeating the Salome in Valencian other fishermen the
sea, invented songs while pulling the nets, which were met Random
indecent words rhyme.

In certain corners of the subsiding coast sailing, leaving the boat without another slow rotation
movement around the anchor rope.

Looking Ulysses space obscured by the shadow of the hull, the bottom
was so immediate, believed that almost reach the tip of his paddle.

The rocks were like glass. In the interstices and hollows, the plants were agitated with animal
life and the animals were immobility of plants and stones.

The boat seemed to float in the air and through the atmosphere liquid wrapped into the world
of the abyss were down hooks, and a swarm of fish coleaba swimming and to meet death.

It was a fire crackling yellow, blue loin, pink fins. Out of caves silver and mercury vibrant as lightning,
while others swam slowly, pot-bellied, nearly round, with a coat
of gold flakes.

The slopes were crawling crustaceans on its double row of legs, attracted by the novelty that
altered the deadly calm of the underwater depths, where all pursue and devour their turn to be devoured.
Close surface floating jellyfish, umbrellas living in a white opal, with edge circular red
or purple brown. Under her leadership stirring gelatinous filament hank which serves for locomotion,
nutrition and love.

One had only to pull the lines and a new dam fell into the boat.

The baskets were filling.

The Newt and his nephew had just tired of this fishery for easy ... The sun was next to the
top of its curve, every ripple marina was taking a piece of strip gold that started the blue
immensity. The wood of the boat seemed to burn.

- We have earned our wages - said the Triton looking at the sky and then to the baskets -. Now a little
cleaning.

And stripping off his clothes and threw into the sea. Ulysses looked down through the center
of foam ring open with your body. Now he realized the depth of this
world fantastic, composed of glassy rocks, plants, animals and animal-stones.

The brown body swimmer took, to descend, the transparency of the porcelain.

Blue glass appeared: pasta infused with a statue of Venetian mirror, that would break just touch
the bottom.

He walked as a god of the deep, pulling up plants, chasing with their hands flashes of vermilion
and gold that were hidden in the crevices of the rocks.

Minutes passed intact, was going to stay down forever, not rise. The boy thought with concern
the possibility of having to guide the boat to the coast alone. Suddenly, the body glass is
colored white with green, growing and growing. Then going to be dark coppery and appeared on
the surface giving the swimmer's head snorts, raising his arms, offering their entire crop to a small
submarine.

- Now you - commanded in an imperious tone.

Their attempts were futile resistance.

The guy with the worst insult words or induced him with promises of security. Certainly did
not know if it was he who threw water or if the boat tore the claw of a doctor. After the first
shock, experienced printing somewhat reminiscent forgotten. Swam instinctively, guessing what
should done before advised by your teacher. Woke up inside the ancestral experience a number of sailors
who had fought with the sea and sometimes stayed forever in her womb.

The memory of what existed beyond the softness struck by his feet caused him to lose Suddenly
her composure. Imagination pulled him with the grief of a cannon ball.

- Dude ... Uncle!

And he clung convulsively to the harsh island and
smiling bearded muscle. Uncle emerged still, as if nailed to the bottom
feet of stone. They were equal to nearby promontory darkened and cooled
the water with its shade of ebony.

So passed the morning, dedicated
to fishing and swimming. Then in the afternoon, were the expeditions
to walk along the cliffs of the coast.

The same Dotor knew the heights
of the promontory that its depths. For paths wild goat climbed to
the summit, from which you could see the island of Ibiza. In sunrise,
the distant land like a flame Balearic pink emerging from the waves.
Other times they walked almost to water level. The Triton was his
nephew caves forgotten which was introduced in the Mediterranean with
slow undulations. Blocks were like maritime where they could anchor
the ship, hidden from all eyes. There had been hiding often their
galleys of Barbary, to fall unexpectedly on a nearby town.

In one
of these caves, on a base of cliffs, Ulysses saw a lot of bales.

-
Come on - said Dotor -. Each man makes his living as he can.

When
faced with the lone police officer supported overlooking the sea in
his gun, doctor offered him a cigarette or gave him advice if he was
sick. Poor men! So wrong paid! ... But his sympathies went to the
other, the enemies of the law. He was the son of sea, and the Mediterranean,
heroes and sailors all had something of pirates or smugglers. The
Phoenicians, who spread their sailing the earliest works of civilization,
charged for this service by filling their boats abducted women, rich
and good portability.

Piracy and smuggling were the historical past
of all people who visited Ulysses piled under cover of a hill crowned
by a lighthouse, open others the concavity of the bay dotted with
islands with waists of foam. The old churches were battlements and
loopholes in the walls beside the doors, and firing shotguns culebrinas.