 The lucky ones left standing, and fled the mole that they coming. Jee
brothers, who were in front of everyone, fell ill, or did not have time flee, and were under
the locomotive, one, Alfredo, died on the spot, burned by all the fire and boiling water machine,
and caught by a wheel in the chest; and the other Morlando, caught between the legs of his brother
and a rock, lying face down head and chest off the machine, but getting from the waist down,
and especially in the right leg, boiling water boiler and heat iron coals and embers facts .--
blunt, slightly injured or burned, were many; but none seriously.

Our grief at seeing the eminent engineer Alfredo died Jee, and his
plight as brother live our surprise when we met, our gratitude to
God that we had delivered, the terror of the people that surround
us, the painful five quarters of an hour that it took Jee Morlando
in getting out from under the machine, are things that would be correct
to describe .....

Morlando Mr. Jee is still alive, but cold as hail
or no hope of salvation.

* * *

The unfortunate died the next night.

Los Corrales (Valle de Buelna), 1858.

MY FIRST TRIP TO TOLEDO

Railroad Castillejo to Toledo just opened, which means in substance the ancient imperial city
that is already at the gates of Madrid .-- De wait is, therefore that, as fast, convenient
and inexpensive travel is today, all lovers of artistic beauty and the Gloria Patri leave
without loss of time to admire their own eyes that museum of wonders.

In the meantime, if you have it, dígnense read the notes I made in my portfolio during the two
days I just went in the Rome of our history, notes that without are
a guide or anything, show all the excitement that can inspire a good
Spanish fond of art, the noble city so often sung by Zorrilla.

* * *

Toledo is a great album architecture, where each century has placed its stone page. See Toledo
is read at the same moment in the history of Spain and the history of architecture.

Most Arabs are rich in monuments Cordoba, Seville and Granada in Merida and Segovia Roman works,
in Gothic kingdoms of León and Castilla la Vieja, but no city like
it holds Toledo everything, nothing like it can hold together great
works of all time and all periods of art.

And is that Toledo is a city ten times historic ten times have risen from the ashes, which has been
corona crown on his forehead, reaching After all to be vested with all the grandeur of our national
history.

Its foundation, lost in the night's epic tale like everything is for a work of Hercules for others
it back to the source of authentic day, the Jewish people.

And just as the religion and paganism is the dispute, see how struggling after all invaders
of Spain by honorable .....

Ah! not all: that while it is true that the northern barbarians respected fifteen centuries ago, is
no less true that the nineteenth-century French burned and destroyed their palaces and temples.

Either
way, Toledo was the beloved city ever. The old Carpetania between their peoples account patriarchal
Rome from its colonies, including their slaves the Alans, among queens the Goths. It seeks refuge
in the nascent Christianity, and the renowned Toledo Councils exalt
his fame in all the towns visited by the Apostolic Men.

Rodrigo settle into it after his corrupt court, and after the Arabs overran ..... But Toledo will not
have died yet. Even the big league will Alfonsos, under the wandering Jews, home of Queen Isabella
and Carlos I of Spain, home, finally, the first dawn of freedom in time of Castilla.

Well, all this greatness, all this power, all this fortune is written on their many monuments.
On more than one tower dismantled, to which formed the foundation ruins of domination Rome, there
are mullioned window was first Arab, then Gothic warhead, then niche
Renaissance and is now decorated with flowers to a balcony that overlooks
the daughter of the sexton.

It deleted see the daffodils and canopies, you notice the trail Stalactitic arc, seeing a rest ye lay
Greco-Roman frieze, and perhaps you find any Churriguera bizarre delusion, a mess and patched,
but all eloquent and revealing past destinations.

The Cathedral, above all, is the funerary urn of Spanish greatness. Every period of civilization
has his name engraved on it, every generation has left the dust of his heroes come across
.-- melancholy pride that museum in all of our artists have carved a column posted a picture
or a saint carved wood, where each has placed the flags conquistador of his army and won trophies
taken to the army, where kings have sought burial and poets and powerful, where a left her jewels,
another your library, this one sword and armor, that the works of
his genius.

It seems the Cathedral, considered this Thus, an ancient matron, a venerable grandmother, to
which everyone has told their sorrows, entrusted their secrets, the legacy his glory, asked
for advice in adversity and because a sentence at the hour of death.

Enrique de Trastamara sleep there, the king fratricidal there saints and archbishops war against
the Moors, there on the same architects who, for many centuries, they built the cathedral,
there D. Álvaro de Luna, the proud enemy of feudalism and D. Suffering Henry III, and D. John I,
and famous queens, and princes and prelates, and ladies beautiful,
who reigned in famous tournaments, there are flags to the Hagrites
caught in a hundred battles, and pearls and diamonds accumulated by
the Jews, and fresh Jordan and Berruguete sculptures, gates and a
hundred authors, all of a merit amazing and a thousand relics, votive
thousand, a thousand treasures authentic historical palaeography, art.

We repeat: the Cathedral is a museum, an archive, a vast library,
where the artist the poet, archaeologist, historian, all who love
the past, will find endless treasures.

For if we believe and as a building, as a work of architecture, like Gothic church, which new
wonders, what richness, what grandeur, what sublimity !.....

There is the whole history of the Gothic style from the Gothic, prior to the invasion of barbarian,
funny and pure until the thirteenth century. There are covers more beautiful than those of Notre
Dame and the very elegant in the cathedrals of Burgos and Seville,
there vaults bold, colorful roses, air canopies, studded with statues
coffers miniature stained glass that gently filters the light of heaven,
and thousands upon thousands of frames and archivolts that entertain
the eye and the imagination by their endless variety.

The original church was founded by St. Eugene, and she boarded the Moors a great mosque. Reconquered
the city, San Fernando did not want at the Cathedral of Toledo had not even traces of the infidels,
and destroyed to the ground, putting on that same place the foundation
stone today.

Two hundred and fifty years it took to build, and even today are still working on details of
ornamentation .....

But I am not able to continue, nor did I have time to sketch, as I would like, other Toledo monuments
.....-- This rapid review has been published in two hours, and compositors are removing me
from their hands that write pages as first intention.

He left them for when you slow down, assuming they ever become pregnant, describe The church and
cloister of San Juan de los Reyes ....., especially the cloister, which seems a stone garden,
half destroyed by a storm .....--¡ Ah, French !..... How not to die of shame, thinking that
destroys those artistic beauties?

I also feel unable to talk at length much of Caesarean Alcazar serves
as crown Wall to Toledo, then rising above the highest peak of the
city.

Suffice it to say that it is a work worthy of Charles V, Alonso de Covarrubias and Juan de Herrera.
The Great Emperor ordered to be built in that eminent place, where he lay in ruins that inhabited
the old fortress .....; Alfonsos large and it is known that, if down or up the monumental staircase,
stood on its high plateau and said: - "Only here I truly believe the Emperor."

In short: a whole volume would not suffice to summarize all there to do in Toledo, since is discovered,
stepped straight into that sort of peninsula or promontory big encircled by the deep Tajo,
and begins to climb the rugged hill, and passed the venerable Puente de Alcántara, and enters the
beautiful and historic Door Hinge, until that is traversed maze of crooked streets Arabic,
and down the opposite side, and becomes to take the field for the San Martín Bridge .-- synagogues,
mosques, minarets serve Christian churches, towers, doors as remarkable as that of Cambron,
which epitomizes Toledo's history, as have her hand in Wamba, the Moors and Charles V, ennobling
more and more with each restoration, ruins of palaces as interesting, respectively, those who
lived D. Pedro the Cruel and D. Enrique de Trastamara; walls of time D. Rodrigo; Bath of the Cava,
the Mozarabic Chapel of the Cathedral, the great arms factory, where
continue forging and tempering swords which earned us many victories
on other days; El Cristo de la Vega of the legend of Zorrilla, the
romantic Zocodover Square, the Inn Blood, a contemporary of Don Quixote,
I do not know how many things have excited me for my stay in Toledo
!.....

I will quote only, in conclusion, my last emotions will call
our eternal city.

It was time to return to Madrid, the world of politics and business .....

The afternoon was stormy ..... Black clouds and thunder threatened to remote to the Toledo a big
storm.

I had decided beforehand that it would be my last visit to the Cathedral, where he had been at least
eight times in the space of two days I wanted to say goodbye .....-- TOLEDO there solemnly.

My
traveling companion and dear friend, the distinguished musician D. Mariano Vázquez me at the
great Basilica, quite alone, sitting in front of the magnificent organ called the Dean, ripping
its deep bosom .-- solemn and pathetic moans played the funeral march
in the death of a Hero, written by Beethowen the day she learned that
Bonaparte had "fallen to the point being crowned Emperor ".-- The
clerk had also been provided to hold the office that was his own,
taking care of the bellows .....

The vaults of the cathedral trembled
before this storm of harmony that launched the powerful instrument.

The lights last week penetrated by flagging pierced rosettes, fantastic giving contours to the
figures painted on the glass .-- Down in the temple, was I just .....

Is the song of glory and death that exuded the body, fell on many
graves on such grandeur faded on much pride humiliated, as a franchise
or as a curse ?..... I do not know!

I lost in the shadow of those cold and lonely chapels, believed that
the dead hero Beethowen the composition was the Spanish honor.

In the distance I seemed to hear the laughter of the modern court of Spain, confused with laughter
of contempt of riffeños, the Mexican and Gibraltar holders. Up I thought I felt slapped-cheek
noise, and new laughter, and creaking bones that were removed indignant under slabs from the graves!

"Foreigners
!.....»-- insult us shouted a voice in the air .....

The court was
silent.

I lifted the front, and wanted to run away ..... But it was dark,
darkness around me .-- Here came my friend and me out of the Cathedral.

A

furious storm was dumping on Toledo ..... But the hour of departure the train and had to leave to escape
from the hail and hurricane, as souls to be carried the devil.

Three hours later I was in Madrid Swiss coffee.

June 1858.

ECLIPSE OF THE SUN 1860

I attest to having seen with my own eyes, yesterday to July 18, two to three in the afternoon,
from the venerable ruins of Sagunto, I mean from the top of Castle Murviedro.

To this end only the day before had left the village and court of Spain in the mail train. Passing
Valencia loved me, as was agreed, some poets of the banks Turia, with an old friend who joins
me and together we arrived at the castle one hour before the announced the schedule for the start
of the celestial tragedy.

In this historic place, where the area began to be fully visible catastrophe, was not constituted
any committee of astronomers, armed with instruments, to to do an autopsy to astro-king after
his death ....., and that is why we determined my friends and I set
up our observatory there poetic tiding of experience in solemn moment
all the emotions and religious drama of innocence or ignorance .....--
We were, then, alone with the tragic chorus, and the tragic chorus
consisted of peasants in the country ..... From those peasants who
rarely rise to the ancient fortress, but always to honor and glory
of Spain!

So I thought I saw the actual people from the village Saguntine up to the citadel. Thought on
the day their ancestors went through those same ramps carved into the rock, and not went down
again, but who died heroically and voluntarily, giving the Carthaginian hero the greatest
show of patriotism in recorded history, or remembered that other day most of our time, the troops
of Napoleon were dashed again and again against this dilapidated
fortress, guarded by a handful of brave, they had left the plow to
go up to defend his life at the expense of the old wall (Murviedro).

In truth, these historical considerations were very appropriate prologue to the epic event that
waited. This was Homeric dimensions, and as the sky, land and sea unfolded before our eyes were
the same twenty-two centuries ago, there were times I lost all consciousness
of time, or they mistook the past with the present, and even with
future, it was the eclipse .....

At my feet I saw the one hand, the
imposing ruins of the Roman Amphitheater, on the other, the village
present, around a green plain populated by carob, olive and mulberry
trees, and further the Mediterranean blue, or soft mountain ranges
delineating, so to speak, a magnificent and bright horizon.

The day was calm and warm. The sun light flooded the loneliness of space, encouraging and enlarging
the vast landscape.

Long, monotonous hum of cicadas and other insects lived in the air flying a dull and sleepy
murmur, which invite to nap. Callahan birds, lulled by the heat, and men too silent, attentive to
deicide that prepared in heaven.

On the left, and precisely where they began to pile up some ashen
clouds, we could see a break in the mountains, they told me gave way
to the Desert Palms .-- There as in other places on the Peninsula,
thousands of human beings, oblivious to the turmoil and narrow interests
of this life, they were like us in anticipation of the celestial phenomenon;
one born of love of science, others of worship to wonder, who's afraid,
who of mere curiosity.

As for myself, I felt at that moment the human race in a way that not had never considered: not as a
privileged species that meets these or those destinations in the world, not as actors in the great
theater of the universe, not as the main characters the long drama we call history, but only as
spectators housed in a small planet, as mere inhabitants of our globe,
as accidents of creation, as witnesses mysterious march of a thousand
worlds.

Science, politics, philosophy, hatred, ambition, love, war, woe, all that constitutes our everyday
life, had lost interest at that time. All men were equal. A power higher, the irresistible force
that governs the orbs, I was thinking about bigger things that society and civilization. What
were, what could be human powers when whole worlds appear as fragile pods lost in the infinite
space, and are browse saw at the mercy of powerful wind that pushes for their mysterious paths?

It
was already announced two time ....., and so long awaited by astronomers.

The eclipse had begun but not yet perceived any alteration in the sunlight.

At about half past two clouds began to fade, while the sea was growing increasingly bleak.

The sunlight was white as the moon, and the shade of black hard bodies,
but vague outlines.

The sky was clear, the clear atmosphere. The sun was at noon, and no But the night is approaching!

Our
faces were getting livid ..... Clarity funeral, which was not like
to the moon, but to the electric light, beautifully lit city and the
ruins Amphitheatre.

The clouds took a gray as ash. The darkening sea continued .....

And none of this seemed the evening !..... It was impressive to see that there, in regions upper
sky was still daylight, while the unfortunate land and atmosphere darkness was rife. Ie the light
of heaven and came to earth!

Moreover, to the naked eye could not tell yet any alteration in the sun's disk. Indeed, most of it was
eclipsed, but the light still perceived limbo, radiated glare enough
to hide our weak eyes to the great shadow that threatened and burial.

We, therefore, that the sun shimmered on the zenith, the sky, or is
the space to which no reached the shadow of the moon, was flooded
with light as before the phenomenon, and that without But the night
fell over the earth, suddenly, rapidly and without gradation or twilight
as if our planet had been very light and could blow off the Maker
suddenly.

In this - (and say everything that happened in less than a second) - in it instantly expires the
last glow, change their appearance all things look sort are two stars near the star dying:
make a terrible wind, cold, are the clouds ennegrécese sea; walking
in the shade at our feet, it seems that unhinges the sky, like when
you move a Shopping in the theater, the sun dies and replace it .....,
never seen a star, a meteor funeral and grand, more beautiful than
anything imagined by man !.....

A cry of terror comes a thousand
breasts.

Simple people that surround us undoubtedly believe that the world ends ..... But, seeing that the
sun has been replaced by that phenomenon as beautiful and amazing, new display of power and wisdom
of the Lord, break forth in a applause, in a live, in a brave, in a frantic and enthusiastic
acclaim .....

This unique and gentle praise the Author of nature, brings tears in
my eyes ..... The show's combination hair stands on end ..... The
box around me, the hour, site, all contribute to horrify, to move
me, to lift my spirit, to reveal the immeasurable greatness of God.
