 

But if great! amid all this enthusiasm, Dona Luz had had no Boyfriend: Do not talk about or
talked to anyone on the fence. What she did was crowd had suitors, though she had given hope
to none. The richest young Some leagues around the already considered impregnable fortress.
The hope, all, it is ever lost. The men in this matter of sexual conquests, promise to us, often
happy. So, if the place had already been refreshed and disillusioned, not missing even strangers,
as long as they were subjects of a stem, that is stirred to see Dona Luz, and proposed himself back
in, get what others had failed; but soon also disappointed.

With this worship resolved with this itching to be matched, had found
many or simultaneously or successively.

None had come to explain. He composed Dona Luz so that had not ever seen the need for formal hard
squash, or excite the resentment that this entails. It was difficult to talk to her alone. It
was difficult to get their hands letter or billet-doux. And while, thanks to some old bold
that wherever there are plenty of Dona Luz had received little notes in prose and even in verse,
had consistently returned unopened. In view of these and other slights, all lovers finally desist
from their purpose, no reason and no excuse to complain.

And I could not any, because Dona Luz rightly offensive silent. He
did not feel inclined to marriage.

Not love. No one sends in his heart. Such were his reasons.

Someone might suspect but not prove invincible repugnance to everything vulgar and plebeian and
the horror that gripped her at the thought of being able to one day have a son who carry his
illustrious family name after another dark and rustic name of some rich guy villain.

In short: Dona Luz, if he could not expect to marry at will, or had not betrayed no desire. Everything
was quiet and contentment she coolly smooth. In vain, the worst thought of the men would dare
to look at their actions, their words, their gestures and gesture,
the slightest sign that was spurned.

Luz was not true. He had taken his party had strongly path advance the path of his life. The
derisive phrase to stay for Aunt or dress pictures made no dent in
your firm and steely heart, nor could violate it, nor inclined to
accept husband with the sole purpose of not reaching spinster.

Several wealthy relatives, who had Dona Luz in Seville and Madrid, had been invited to went to live
with them: but, or because they really were, or because he suspected Dona Luz, the invitations
had been more than heart for compliance. In addition, Mrs. Light was considered very poor for
its class, and would not be burdensome, nor live at the expense of
others and in a kind dependence close to servitude.

There was, therefore, refused all invitations. His plan was to live and die obscurely in Villafría.

The
same impurity of his origin, birth defect, the humble condition of unknown mother, worked for
reaction in his mind and almost turned his fierce pride.

To clean original spot that I wanted to be Dona Luz much cleaner
and more pure.

I did not want pordiosear not owe anything to anyone.

Retained without selling his ancestral home the place with its antique furniture and two servants.
If did not live there, thinking later life, or because they don Acisclo
could be missing or because, entered her in years, one might wonder
that he lived alone.

Meanwhile, Dona Luz lived in the mansion of Don Acisclo, where he
had ample independent room, where he had brought to adorn her most
beautiful and precious furniture and better books.

In return for this hospitality, gift Acisclo did accept, though it
had resisted, more than half their income, or 8,000 reais a year.

With the rest, as economic era and arranged, was enough to dress, buy some new books and do
charity.

The only luxury, the unique gift of Dona Luz was a magnificent black horse, which used her out
to walk with D. Acisclo or a servant named Thomas, who had grown old in for her father.

Don Acisclo was a widower so long. He had two sons and three daughters, all married and a separate
house, so that in the wide expanse of that vast solitude mansion, Dona Luz and D. Acisclo gave
each other's company.

Verged and D. Acisclo in seventy years, but he was strong and in good
health.

He was right as a spindle, was a man agile and lean meat, and if he knew no more than read and
write fairly and the four rules, and if he had never read a book, had great natural clearing,
even crude. I had never troubled his conscience with moral subtleties. So, not to his heart, as
we said, had contributed to the ruin of the Marquis. If she had taken advantage of her best
He seemed to have been no other.

Much would have hurt to see the flow into foreign hands of his master.

Poseíale, therefore, in good faith with just title, and up to and
indeed feeling of reverence for the memory of the illustrious deceased
owner.

Such worship is extended, or rather, are extreme and reached its height,
without affecting or servility, when it was Miss Dona Luz, who, fascinated
by the old man, believed discover a being whose arcane thoughts, mobile,
and springs of action, barely glimpsed; a rare and unusual creatures
from another caste very different from yours, and which, without But
I ate every day and had the honor of sharing the house.

-III-

In
other trifles that conscientiousness of the narrator does not allow
to pass in silence

It included this house, like many other wealthy
landowners in Andalucía, of two houses contiguous communication: the
masters and always called cottage, although is in the center of town.

The house masters inhabitants had no D. Acisclo at one end, and Dona Luz in another Juana with
her old servant, who slept in a room next to his wife.

There was a large dining room, another small room for newspapers and several rooms of respect,
not opened only on great occasions, and where, among other treasures, D. Acisclo, their sons,
daughters, sons and daughters, all glowing oil portraits, more than natural size, and almost
the entire body, an itinerant painter who happened to pass by Villafría, and led an ounce
of gold for each portrait. True, D. Acisclo you entertained and treated like royalty, him at
his desk all the time it took to paint, which was the work of five months and then, when he
departed, he did this a thousand sweets, for example, a pipotillo with double brandy anise,
dried apricots and alfajores and Piñonate. The portraits it like it deserved. Lacked not only
talk. The lace contained in of the ladies were a little confusing at first, but, bowing to complaints
from the ladies aforesaid, the painter managed to ingenious artifice.

Smeared on a piece of tulle white lead, was applied to the picture site, and dry, where the
lace was represented, and it was a fact wonderful, because even the lace holes looked and still
could be counted.

All this was on the main floor, where two fireplaces, French call there, and not lit, but when
the bishop came in mid-winter, and nearly drowns S. SI with the smoke that was put together.
But instead there was a great gentlemen kitchen with fireplace Bell, of much shot, which always
burned during the cold season, plenty of firewood oak and olive-pomace
rich pasta, where it is rarely cooked, and where the lords warmed
very much to his taste.

In this kitchen adorned the walls several cages for partridges, placed on shelves, shotguns and
other weapons, and some heads of deer, wolves, foxes, badgers and martens, killed by D. Acisclo.

On
the ground floor was almost as much room as in the main, and, if the court had with awning, was more.
Lived there during the summer. In all seasons he was there at the office D. Acisclo, where
the cattle farmer and was active with barges, brokers, rabadanes, overseer, foreman and home:
understanding by landlords, not tenants' terror delinquent, as in
Madrid, but those who care and keep those houses or dwellings in each
farm paperback.

On the ground floor in the living room and authority over device, called the block, because it was square,
there was something that gave luster to the house. It should be known that in many villages
Andalusia is blessed multitude of images that are taken in procession on the great festivals,
and particularly at Easter. The number of these images often do not fit well in temples, so many are
held in private houses until one day the year in which they leave in procession. D. Acisclo was in the
barn down one of these images brotherhood whose older brother was, but it was a picture of three
fourth, but the more complicated was known and the most effort and
cost, and it does not really say that she prayed proverbial:

Santirulitos
nice, cheap, neither eat nor drink, nor wear shoes.

Image or representation that eating and drinking, or rather supped, was nothing less than the
dinner.

Christ and the twelve apostles of the package sat at the table, threw
the blessing Christ, San Juan is asleep on the shoulder of his Divine
Master, and the ugly and treacherous Judas, with tangled red hair,
put his hand on the center plate, because it is known not pinch of
education.

Holy Thursday procession left the Supper, and Holy Wednesday evening was exposed on the block to
the veneration of the faithful, who on that occasion had free entry
into the house, which was called and is called the badges still visit,
and just left in place who no visits on the eve of the respective
procession.

And this if you have outsiders.

The table at which Christ and the apostles were sitting, was quite capable, and in so solemn
days, was covered with precious cloths and adorned alemaniscos niceties of a thousand flowers, meats,
sweets and fruits. Although not on the table of what God created, as claimed by the villagers with
excessive price increases, it was undeniable that there were rare and expensive: grape goat heart
as just that miracle catch and had been preserved, carnations and early roses smell in large
cones, bunches of violets and camellias, etc.., etc. The walls of the room where the dinner
was carpeted with crimson damask is, on the damask hung beautiful and ancient cornucopias with
many burning candles, and also in the room was green plants, and canaries in cages, and a huge
black cross, wooden ornaments and finials fine silver, clutching to the wall by sharp spikes.
It was the cross D. Acisclo, when young, shoulder had taken in processions for many years because
it had been and was still Cross brother, though retired, still dressed in Nazareth, to go in the procession
as older brother before the dinner, with a rich purple silk gown that had cost a fortune;
but then did not carry the cross, but a shiny pole, a sign of authority
and command.

His eldest son went ahead with the banner of the brotherhood.

The expense of the party was great, because D. Acisclo expenses all carrying burning wax the paths
that still sails his flagship, and on the night of Holy Thursday, and finished the procession,
dinner was all the brothers, who were many, entertained and fed with bean stew, cornetillas spicy
garlic chicken dogfish, cod with tomatoes or meatballs, sometimes fried seraphim, because,
oddly enough, are called seraphim in that country, anchovies, and delectable desserts and vintage
wine bores. Also paid generous due to the forty or fifty porters who had carried on the shoulders
of the litter and the litter the table, with Christ, Apostles, and
as God created him mammoth undertaking, which not a few were broken-backed
and blisters fierce, despite the pads.

That night threw D. Acisclo still life out the window.

The little people smoked at their expense cuirassiers best that was
in the tobacco and dominion took chocolate with pastries, pies, hornazos,
cakes of various kinds, such as polvorón and oil, wine and donuts
and egg.

On any day, any time all that was shown in D. Acisclo was beautiful and wealthy.

The backyard was broad and paved with marble. In the center wearing a marble basin also, where
clear water falling a hearty, high spout. Around the source were many pots of flowers and fragrant
herbs, and some beds with bogies, which were balls and pyramids,
and climbing roses, jasmine and orange trees that lined the wall and
climbing on top of the balconies on the main floor, weaving a cloak
or mantle of flowers, fruits and vegetables, and embalming the environment,
and with the smell of orange blossoms, and with the slightest scent
jasmine and musk.

In this courtyard, and a larger garden, with garden honors, he had
to back of the house, looked carefully Dona Luz.

So did come flowers and plants, which had never Villafría known and used to acclimatise.

De Dona Luz cared nothing, not laziness, but because he said D. Acisclo persisted to argue that
he was as a guest, and did not want to get into nightgown chew.

Who ruled all, the real director and a housekeeper was Mrs. Petra, age very accomplished fifty years.
She understood in daily expenditures, and had watched the kitchen
the keys to the pantry, pastry, the winery, the four wineries, oil,
spirits and vinegar, and attics or barns, where there were always
wheat, barley, arvejones, yeros, anise and other seeds.

In the immediate orders of Mrs. Petra had four servants, two, zagalonas even hard? Work, tight
meat and muscles of steel, which were called by the Beyond body home, that is, they served to
scrub, mop, whitewash and have it all saltandito of clean, another and more grains, but also
girl, who sewed, mended and ironed clothing, and one that cooked
the most authentic and tasty stews of the earth, and knew make syrup,
clotted, pastries, syrup and juice porridge.

All these female soldiers lived and slept on the main floor of the
cottage where room were also the overseer, his wife and four kids,
but these, so far apart, not seen or understood but when the master
called.

There was finally a boy, who was sleeping next to the barn and took care of it, patios and
pens.

Such was the domestic servitude, as it were.

But it is understood that the hired the mule, landlords, the tenants, the plungers, the mill
and the other people who employed in agricultural work, came and
went and had stayed in the cottage where width was more than enough,
and still, press, paneled ceiling and presses for olives and grapes.

It was, therefore, as we have already noted, that the house owners only lived D. Acisclo Dona
Juana Luz and her maid.

Thomas, the former servant of the Marquis, lived in the manor house with a lad that helped to care
and also care for the beautiful black horse of the lady.

In the house were two tables: one that would sit D. Acisclo and Dona Luz and some invited if he
had, one for the family (in the Andalusian village is still called the family servants), and on
that table sat Mrs. Petra presiding, the two women's body home, seamstress and laundress, cook,
the groom of the stables, Thomas and his assistant and Jane, maiden Miss Dona Luz.

The overseer and his ranch were separate and had a small kitchen where she cooked the Moorish
overseer.

This did not prevent him or any of their children, or all, even the
overseer, but not child but father, were often guests at the family
table, which sat mule and others also when they were in place, and
which Mrs. Petra and Jane assumed the right, not neglecting to exercise
it, to make the invitations that they wanted.

Such was the house he had lived for twelve years Dona Luz, and such
people that was surrounded in May 1860.

-IV-

Close friends Dona
Luz

Luz, the circumstances in which it was and the conditions of
his character, could not less to live as he lived.

Pride is certainly wrong.

How much better and is not Christian humility? In much of selfish pride, while humility is all
devotion and abandonment. Yet how can we deny that a good pride led sometimes causes high virtues
and honest behavior?

Anyway, we should not hide the fact that our heroine was very proud.

This writer has no hobbies or aristocratic predilections. On the contrary, always has persisted
in believing that people are not worth less the more swanky places that the court. Mutatis mutandis,
everything looks the same: the mayor's wife is equal to an empress or queen, the clerk's equivalent
to the Duchess more in vogue in Madrid, and is nice Fulanito he seems more lively, and graceful,
a good horseman, charming, affable and friendly, the most perfect dandy he has known.

But, on balance, this is not democratic spirit discreet, but black and dismal pessimism. Optimistic
and healthy democracy is no doubt in believing that the best education from early childhood, good
example and name of parents and grandparents, the obligation not disgrace or tarnish the good name
and a half living in urban and educated, should be school and effective incentive to be virtuous
and discreet, or alluring or worthy or particularly time. On an equal intellectual light nature
and should therefore be worth much else who has the external requirements such that it does
not possess: equal internal conditions, the daughter of a marquis,
for example, even if it is spurious and should be conducted better
than the daughter of a ragamuffin.

Otherwise understand the democratic spirit, it follows that what we want is equality and not
climbing down: Levelling in ignorance abjection and misery, not leveling and elevation possible
in all media, in all this accumulation of resources made by past generations, so that their
help continue climbing towards good, towards the light and the beauty.

I understand how venerable and all but holy paths even if you lost,
the intention of the demagogue, Democrat and even socialist, which
strives to give all men liberal education, resources and few elements
have so-called aristocratic, if these items are worth, not only to
enjoy, but to be better, but if you only apply for benefit and be
more weak, corrupt and vile, I can not explain the progressive democracy,
but democracy Rousseau, who seeks to roll back humanity to the savage
state.

Either way it is, it appears that I am not advocating this or that
opinion here.

Is not I write a treatise on political philosophy. Do not attempt to present either as Dona Luz
a paragon of excellence, but as she was present.

Luz deeply felt human dignity, but assumed that this clear and distinct sentiment, which had
in it more than other people, not just reliance on a natural gift and free, but a higher education to
the generality, and more careful. This rather than pride, seems modest. She believed he had
an ideal of himself that had been made and as we bring out, thanks no doubt to his own power,
but assisted in circumstances blissful and initials should be to Providence, and that not all
but few are. Be judged, then, as favored by God, and therefore more obligations to fulfill.
For every divine favor, a sacred obligation.

He had talent, he was obliged to cultivate; was beautiful and strong, needed to retain its strength
and beauty, had been named illustrious, and, if not more successful to enlighten, it should not
stain.

Although she was considered equal in nature to other humans, he judged all going in search
of greater height than good and more luminous and serene.

If she does, even if was by a quirk of fate, went ahead and was closer to the summit, his philanthropy
could not extend more than shake hands with those who were able to climb up where she was, and
not those who were so low and so deep in the mud, which Instead of lifting, it would drag it
falling in the mud too.

We have already indicated that the pride of Dona Luz was veiled and
shrouded in the most discreet concealment; and this not only out of
prudence and self-interest, but by the lively sense of charity.

Nothing hurt as much as to humiliate others. If you may be pleased to show off a skill, a good
piece of his mind, a delicacy and elegance of his person, was able to feel the stimulus to
imitate or rise to it, not with a desire to excite sterile painful admiration or envy.

Doña Luz, therefore he had so proudly, had no spark of vanity. Liked all to repay with interest
what he received. No longed to love her more than I could love her. The flirtation was, then,
for a vice Dona Luz ignored and almost incomprehensible.

The decision, the own statement she dictated about any quality or act under him, the flattered and
pleased thousand times more than all the applause of those around her. So I just wanted to
please the pure kind, where there were a naturalness, a modesty and apparent neglect of his
own merit, which charmed and amazed.

Other women are longing to always inspire passions inspire Dona Luz fleeing, and, applying an
early disappointment, the killing in my heart before they were born.

Why be loved if there was to love who loved her? In love as in friendship, wished to Dona Luz twice.
And not being able to love in Villafría, had little by little out of himself to all the boys
the place, and had chosen his close friends among the old.

If it was fresh in his dealings with everyone, as studied using courtesy, without the branded
pride, avoiding intimacy with all but four subjects.

The first was D. Michael, parish priest, Father excellent although very short ranges, whom he
confessed every month, who gave his nest egg for the dole in alms to the needy, and who often
played the tute. The heart and mind Dona Luz was for the poor priest's book of seven seals. In
this darkness, and being also D. Miguel unenthusiastic, I wanted
in moderation Dona Luz, but loved her with all the strength of soul
that he could have for the baby, which was very little.

Doña Luz, Instead, he idolized the priest in some way. He was pleased that transparency, in
that sharpness, in that blessed emptiness of his spirit, and pampered and entertained him as
a child little boy.

By means of a smuggler who came and went with cotton cloth, was brought D. Lisbon Miguel choicest
snuff, and making sure that did not make him wrong, he sent candies, cookies and other goodies,
that the priest was very fond.
Another intimate of more importance, was the doctor D. Anselmo. I
say more importance, he was worth, not because you need him Dona Luz.
The health of Dona Luz was insolent good. Not a headache ever.

D.
Despejadísimo Anselmo was a man, not only skilled and educated in
his profession, but reading varied and unique way with words. Do not
be surprised that such gifts were doctor in one place. O fortune had
not smiled, and his genius was wild and vicious lifted himself opposed.