 Gabriel was the modern world for many years had spent away from
the cathedral, without even touching it, and came at last, a sense of awe a handful of people
still living in the sixteenth century.

The emergence of Sagrario had caused some disorder in the life of Luna. It was more communicative;
forgot the reservation that had been imposed on the refuge in the lap of stone of the church;
and made no effort to silence, hiding her thoughts. The presence of a woman seemed cheer, raising
his former fierce campaigner. His teammates saw a more Gabriel talkative and willing to communicate
the "new things" which upset the traditional order their thoughts
and disturbed his sleep many nights.

They talked, argued, referring to Luna to clarify their confused ideas, and the voice of the
men highlighted the rattle of the sewing machine, always in activity
an echo of the universal work that shook the world, while the calm
of the blue shed its silent stone in the bowels of the temple.

All these men, accustomed to the tasks of the church, slow, regular, calm and with long intervals
of rest, admire the nerve activity Tabernacle.

- Are you going to kill creature - said the old darkening of the body
-.

I know what that is. Something like I do, give it give to the bellows! And when a mass of great
music, of those who likes to Don Luis, just by denying the body and who invented it, because
break my arms.

- Work! - Ringer said with emphasis -. The work is a punishment from God! You know origin.
It was the eternal punishment that God imposed on our first parents
to throw Paradise.

You always carry a chain dragging.

- No, sir - "said the shoemaker -. Work is the greatest of virtues, as I read newspapers. None
of punishment. Idleness is the mother of vice, and work a virtue.
Is not that right, Mr. Gabriel?

And the teacher watched zapaterillo, awaiting his words with the same anxiety thirsty waiting for
the water.

- Work - Gabriel said - not punishment or virtue, is a hard law to
which we are subjected conservation staff and the human species. Without
work there would be no life.

And burning with the same intonation
that once moved to the crowds in meetings of protest against society,
describing the half-dozen men and the sad seamstress, who stopped
to move the machine to hear the greatness of the work universal tired
every day to earth to conquer it and force it to sustain humans.

It
was a battle every twenty-four hours, with the blind forces of Nature