 

As was true Carer referred to, was having the indefatigable missionary to carry out and achieve
the glorious end of such laborious undertaking, for which, by choosing second time some Christians
more courage and strength, started in late May of 717, and reaching the place of his sweats, then
put more verve to cut trees and to pave the earth, facilitating this work and fatigue in the
hope of good success.

It seemed almost impossible to remove this pregnancy, but nothing
is inaccessible, nothing hard to beat, whom he has offered his spirit
to God and his neighbor his life for the sake of charity.

Twenty days after it was open to anyone in the impenetrable forest, and to the July 12 arrived
at the first Rancheria of Zamucos.

These, whom fame had preceded his coming, we celebrated with demonstrations of extraordinary
joy cercáronle all in a circle, and men all, one by one, we were
kissing his hand, wanted to do the same for women, but the holy man
crumbled all in tears of relief and gave them to kiss the image of
the Blessed Virgin, who brought in hand.

Completed after the neophytes, embracing in peace and love, and I stayed in their homes, giving
them part of the poverty and the country.

The next day the people gathered in the square, right, and together they gave a brief report of
God, his holy law, and asked if they wanted should come and preach the Missionary Hence the faith
of Jesus Christ and teach the way to heaven.

They answered that he had long wished, and not being Christian and it was because I had no one explain
the mysteries of the faith they had to believe, or the commandments to be observed.

- Well if so - said the Father, bathed in joy - you need to first raise church to your Creator
and Lord, and that you keep company all in one village.

That proposal was raised two principal chiefs, saying they would of goodwill but not there, but in
a better place, and that would gather at once to all the people of the neighborhood to found
a large reduction.

Meanwhile made P. Zea fly a cross on a high, and put all kneel before
it, worship it, and chanted the Litany of the Virgin, placed under
the patronage that people and protection of our Father St. Ignatius,
which gave invocation.

One would have gladly stayed there for warmth to the good will of the Zamucos if there brought
with them the sacred vestments and altar laptop, but he was forced to suffer many inconveniences,
and having nothing else to eat but water and some wild grass roots;
from this cause was to dismiss them and turn then to the same feeling
and pain that started and those who stayed.

On the return was timely opportunity to win for Christ to one hundred Indians of various nations
Zinotecas, Japorotecas and Cucarates that brought to the Reduction
of San Juan Bautista, where as he was preparing again to return to
their Zamucos, received orders to our General Michelangelo Tamburini
father, that he take charge of the provincial government, to they
promptly obeyed, not without pain in his heart incomparable.

And this time he died because the public good of these missions, leaving after two years slightly
less, life in the provincial employment, we here a brief account of the merits starting from
here took with him to Paraguay, for example of the subjects, and
then the sky to receive the crown due to the apostolic workers.

Father was Juan Bautista de Zea, a native of Goaz, instead of Old Castile, where he was born to March
18, 1654.

Here he learned the rudiments of grammar, but by the quality of place and teachers, took over
in devotion in the letters, not least in growing under that year.

To study more science went to the University of Valladolid, where he gave good examples ingenuity
in the speculative sciences, but much more on the saints.

He excelled in maiden modesty, innocence of manners as Christian and kind, great contempt of
worldly things, and not like anything other than God and his soul.

There was little need for one who was so detached from the affections
of flesh and blood surrender to the will of God calling him to the
Company, in which to August 13, 1671 will P. was the most learned
Diego Hurtado de la Fuente, who discovered light sovereign and foreseeing
the end to which God had designed the new Jesuit, it predicted things
great in the service of God and increase the holy Church, and from
then on he always loved and was venerated as a saint.

Zea brother just donned the robes of the Company, when taking over new obligations that she
had contracted, he tried to give them full compliance, and as if I started again the path
of virtue, he looked in the virtues of their connovicios, As observed
in them worthy of emulation to copy itself to the perfection of all.

Bragging to read and consider our rules, they are put forward as a
model, to which perfectly arranged in the interior and exterior.

Had very little to overcome to deliver the all his heart to God, not wanting or loving, or thinking
of other good that Her Majesty and subject testifies he met while studying the philosophy,
having given the Supreme clock care home, was only rather uncomfortable in a room without
leaving it but forced or scholastic functions domestic.

Here all the time that he had plenty of work study God gave it, and very rarely to men, because they
used very little of their conversation, and then only when requested by the obligation.

Then he went to study theology at Salamanca, and at this time the news spread by provinces of
Spain have arrived at Cadiz PP. Cristóbal de Grijalva and Thomas Dombaas, Prosecutors in Paraguay,
and to consider putting on the conversion of idolaters and the extreme distress in which are
innumerable peoples of the West, where extensive field offers copious harvest operators to many
Evangelicals, if there are many who disregard the amenities to attend to the eternal salvation
of souls is kindled the heart the desire to be one of the elect whom he touched the good fortune
to be appointed for the Mission the very extensive province of Paraguay,
and therefore made every effort to reach then leave of his superiors,
who felt much his request, because one part would not deprived of
it, and otherwise would not oppose the will of God, clearly known
their vocation, the American finally prevailed, and the abandoned
paganism of Paraguay by thus, our Zea, happy and alegrísimo broke
his province of Castile, to whom as a child always professed most
tender affection, and his classmates followed him to the heart, retaining
its sweet memory; singularly took pains to master this, your philosophy
Fr Baltasar Rubio, who was confessor of the Most Serene Queen of Spain,
Dona Maria Luisa Savoy, he followed him with affection, with their
prayers and their letters because when offered always hand wrote,
having the P. Zea uploaded concept, as I stated them.

Ordenóse a priest before embarking for the province, he spent the
year 1681 and were just sailed in Cadiz, when occasion offered which
demonstrate the spirit and virtues, of which plenty was prevented
for that trip.

Fell ill almost all his companions, who came to sixty, it is dizzy with extraordinary loss of
appetite and food boredom, to be followed by other diseases, that
killed eight of the Jesuits, as I said in the life of P. Caballero,
who also spent Indians on this occasion.

Fr Zea was time for everyone, serving not only as a nurse, but a cook,
but no experience in such trades, but the charity which is very clever
teacher, taught him these and other offices to serve his brethren.

Convalesced them, used all his thoughts and zeal in the mob of apprentices of the ship, taking
responsibility for the spiritual care of them with the talks, calls, confessions and all other
exercises leading to the advantage of souls, leaving between therefore no work, were vile
and disgusting it was, who did not run on their service, to win them
for God, and better and more happily did win those who were most work
and contempt.

With this size so holy proceeded all the navigation, which lasted three months, taking advantage
many wonderful, whom reduced to living well, and drawing on the eternal truths and putting them
in sight so many dangers and storms at sea, which even the most lost
often obliged to care for the conscience and soul, who had previously
appeared in such neglect or not having it.

What worked after he came to the Indies and in what trades are employed in the long course
his life, I have not been able to ascertain, by the distance of the places where he lived and
worked and having killed many of the Company who treated him familiarly. But I know that by
the I appreciate that from the beginning made him superiors soon
after he arrived from Spain made him minister of the Colegio Máximo
de Cordoba, where they breed the religious youth throughout the province.

After

he was Superior of the Missions of Uruguay, Visitor of the Chiquitos, Vice-Rector College of Córdoba,
and was also designated the Rector of Corrientes, to which for reasons that had proposed, and
recently was Provincial of the province, letter by Death took him a year and a half of his
government.

Now I'll just say briefly something of their virtues, reserving for another day to give in full
respect of all his many enterprises and heroic deeds.

And first tell your religious poverty.

He was always very poor in their dress, so much that by the many patches
that had, say with grace a missionary, he was in more accidents than
substance, he himself mended by their hands never moved another, until
the first, and can not survive, was falling to pieces.

Upon entering Buenos Aires, with Provincial, begged his secretary Fr Juan de Alzola, which at
least in that city, it ceases to do with some decent cassock, as
carrying was very faded, almost white, because if you do not force
him to dress another similar.

- I send to VR - said Fr Zea - that
does not make any move on her dress and let I rejoice in this poverty,
that I most appreciate that many are wearing purple monarchs and emperors.

All

the furniture in his room were a network, or as we call, hammock, sleeping without mattress or
pillow, a few books devoted and Santo Cristo.

Her old breviary was so shattered, that only helped the memory could meet the obligation to pray
the Divine Office, its greatest treasure were the instruments of
penance, that macerated his flesh, and sackcloth, iron chains, crosses,
armed with sharp ends and other of this sort, with which reduced his
body to perpetual slavery, with that holy awe with which also armed
himself against himself the Apostle Paul.

In his travels just ate some bread and some other snack, they use the poor Indians; well as to
bread or other of the dishes used by Europeans for many years did not prove snack; happy with
just a handful of corn undercooked and often with roots or fruit
wild, since many had no else was in the woods, and when he ate more
largesse was a little fish or some herbs or cooked without any seasoning,
and lived so joyful and happy in this poverty and misery in his last
illness he was annoying facilities and heavy with their patients using
the Company.

It was not inferior to his obedience poverty, gave proof that wonderful, which, by chance, one that
is not true holiness look with the eyes of the body, will take little but who look at things
with clear eyes and clear the mind, perfectly measured of virtues, not what they show in appearance,
but which in reality are itself.

It was, as we shall see, a man of zeal and natural ardientísimo on how hot, with all that, to
a hint from his superiors, from the Missions of the Guarani, where worked great works of the service
of God and the good of souls, was reduced without retail proposal, to the anguish of a room in
a school, with the use of teaching children the rudiments of grammar. In another hint of his
Provincial, while was reducing the bosom of the church a large number
of infidels, leaving the point that great work, went to the Reductions
of Uruguay, as it were, from one end of the world another, as they
were far more than a thousand and two hundred leagues from the other
where he was, and a trip twenty-four hours, turned to retrace, in
obedience, in twenty days.

Finally, where this virtue champion with admiration of all, it was that being in the fervor
of their conversion and to the best of the work to reduce faith to the Zamucos and found that
new Christendom, hands raised to the point of work, no hope of ever returning to continued at
a general order that our Father to take charge of the government of this province, he naively
confessed that cost him his incredible performance of this order grief and sorrow, and had
never felt so much his natural repugnance in this case to be High, and though it easily could
have been excused from that burden for him as heavy, with all that,
no longer obey, promptly accepted, and promptly fell to long hours
at Tucumán, suffering incredible by the way work and discomfort.

But in what was particularly remarkable among us was in the zeal for souls and in the conversion
of infidels. The delay of faith, to preach to the Christians, reducing to the Gentiles, it did
not seem to work under, but natural inclination and appetite, for what which could not live in any
other way or in another occupation got taste, but this driver souls to the knowledge and love
of God, and this year was all quiet and rest your and ease in all conditions, there was no better
way to talk of new businesses for the good of souls, the holy life of new Christians and new
conversion of infidels to the holy church.

I wish I could bring here some of his letters, I have in my possession, to see all that they
could not lovers of the world and the flesh liveliest explain their content and desires, the
Protestant states this worker's feelings of his heart businesses in the service of God, the laments
and complaints that makes the most enemy demon when he crossed it, or did he allayed your designs.
So I do not cause admiration that undefeated spirit suffer much persecution and repaired, even
with the loss its reputation, damage, rather than light, its Christianity, before realizing these
his squalls Fr Francisco Burgos, Attorney General of this province,
in a letter dated 29 September 1705, written at Madrid, he says:

"For
me there can be no greater glory than that pursued me to take forward
this new Christianity of the Chiquitos so many work and sweat has
cost me from the beginning.

"

And telling the truth, because if it comes to their own jobs that have to devastate and to instruct
to these nations, that the factions are men, but in the works differ little brutes, they had
suffered and how much you can make a real father to spiritual profit and body of their children,
because he had given under belly so tender and love true father as the natural parents usually
have them by nature with children, of worked day and night, not only for the good of souls, but
also the bodies of their neophytes, providing plenty of food to the hungry, and writing recipes
and applying remedies to the sick, and although journal Nature, treating
and cleaning his wounds with such disengage, as if I did not feel
the slightest repugnance and disgust in himself; the same love he
showed to be the arbiter in their disputes, spending much time listening
to him have, with patience and gentleness inexplicable, differences
had each other to achieve and to maintain and preserve peace among
them because before being a Christian, each one their own authority
and justice was done to avenge their grievances with the weapons.

This and much more doing and suffering for the poor Indians, and though others could not tolerate
continuous weight of life so laborious and so little relief for all that he lasted in it for
many years, and every day was as vigorously as if just begun, and of that, as I said elsewhere, not
just to amaze me, because when hearing his work in Mission Zamucos forces was considered consumed
and could barely keep his feet, I saw him shortly afterwards in Cordoba, with encouragement
and vigor of youth, being so I was sixty and four years old.

In many hardships for the sake of those new Christians, they added another trabajosísima of difficult
to learn so many barbarous languages, so that while they in the works her father experienced,
do not take into the foreign tongue.

Thing was this that a man of his age could be very annoying and much embarrassment, but zeal
for souls forced him to return to the status and simplicity of a
child to learn one by one the words and meanings of those languages,
and to express the voices the accents of the barbarians, and not refusing
to become a disciple of these infidels, I took them by interpreters
to translate into your language the mysteries and precepts of the
law God, after trying to teach them to work continuously for months
and years on end.
