 The war was a fact, and after this assurance, were anxious
not to acquire new news. Staying at the coffee they found intolerable. In the atmosphere hot and smoky,
consumers were singing and shouting and waving small flags. All past and present anthems were sung
in chorus, accompanied by cups and saucers. The audience, somewhat cosmopolitan magazine European
nations to greet with roars of enthusiasm. Absolutely all, were going to be next to France. "Viva!
... Viva! "An old couple occupied a table next to two friends. Were renters, orderly and mediocre
life, you may not remember in his whole life had been awake at such hours. Carried away by enthusiasm,
were down the boulevard to "see the war more closely. " Foreign language employing the neighbors gave
her husband a high idea of its importance.

- Do you think that England will march with us?

...

Argensola knew as much as him, but replied with authority: "Surely it is actually decided." The old
man stood up: "Long live England!" And caressed by the admiring eyes of his wife, began to sing a patriotic
song forgotten, marking the chorus arm movements, very few reached
to continue.

The two friends had to take him on foot to return to his home.

They found a vehicle I would like to receive: all went in the opposite direction to the stations.
Both were moody, but Argensola could not march in silence.

"Ah, women!" Desnoyers knew his honest relationships from a few months earlier a midinette
the Rue Taitbout. Hiking on Sunday near Paris, several going to the movies, comments on the sublime
of the last novel published in the folletón of a popular newspaper, kissing them farewell,
when she took the evening the Bois Colombes train sleeping at the family home: this was it. But had Argensola
malignantly over time, it ripens more acidic strengths. That afternoon they had taken the appetizer
with a French friend who was leaving the next morning to join his regiment. The girl had seen
a few times with him, but he deserves special attention, but now admired him suddenly, as if it were
another. Had resigned to return to the house tonight their parents wanted to see how a war starts.
Ate the three together, and all the attention it was for he was leaving. To be offended with
sudden shame because he wanted Argensola exercise the right of priority
seeking his hand under the table.

Meanwhile, almost collapsed her head on the shoulder of the future hero, wrapped in admiring
glances.

- And are gone! ... They have gone together! - Said bitterly -. I had to abandon not to prolong
my sad situation. Having worked so hard ... for another!

He paused, and changing the course of his ideas, he added:

- Recognize, however, that his conduct is beautiful. How generous of women when believe the time
to offer!

... Her father inspires great fear for their anger, and without But stay for a night away
from home with one hardly knows whom and who did not think By mid-afternoon ... The nation
feels gratitude for those who are going to expose them, and she the little girl, want to do something
also for those destined to death, give them a little happiness in the last minute ... and gives
the best we have, so you can not ever recover. I've done a bad role ... Laugh at me, but admits
that this is beautiful.

Desnoyers laughed, indeed, the misfortune of his friend, notwithstanding that he also suffered major
setbacks, kept secret. He had not seen him after Marguerite the first interview. He had only
heard from her for several letters ... War Damn! What condition for happy people! Margaret's
mother was sick. He thought of his son, who was an officer and was beginning the first day
of mobilization. She was also concerned by his brother and considered inappropriate to go to
study at home while the mother moaned. When was going to end this situation? ...

It was also concerned that check for four hundred thousand francs brought from America. The day
before payment had been excused at the Bank for lack of notice. Then stated that they notice,
but neither gave the money. On that afternoon, when credit institutions were already closed,
the government had issued a decree establishing the moratorium to
general bankruptcy to avoid a result of financial panic.

When would you pay? ... Maybe when the war ended he had not yet begun, perhaps ever. He had
no other cash scarce two thousand francs he had left the trip. All his friends were in a distressing
situation, deprived of receiving the amounts kept in Banks. Those who had any money were obliged
to undertake a pilgrimage from store to store or queue forming at the door of the banks to
change a ticket.

Ah, war! The stupid war!

In the middle of the Champs Elysees saw a man with wide-brimmed hat, marching in front of them
slowly and talking to himself.

Argensola recognized him as he passed to a lamppost: "The friend Tchernoff." The Russian, returning
the greeting, let out the bottom of his beard a faint smell of wine. No invitation arranged his
passage to them, following them into Arc de Triomphe.

July had only crossed the silent greetings with friends to find you
Argensola the porch of the house.

But sorrow softens the mood and does look like a cool shade the friendship of the poor. Tchernoff,
meanwhile, looked as if he knew Desnoyers lifetime.

He had interrupted his monologue, heard only the masses of black vegetation,
banks lonely blue shadow red pierced by the tremor of the lanterns,
the summer night with its dome and sidereal blows hot flashes.

Took a few steps without speaking, as a a courtesy to the passengers,
then resumed his arguments, taking them where he had abandoned, without
explanation, as if march alone.

And at this hour --... cheers as well as the people here will believe in good faith going to
defend their homeland caused, want to die for their families and homes threatened anyone.

- Who are those, Tchernoff? - Asked Argensola. Russian looked at him, as if strange your question.

-
They - said laconically.

They both understood ... Them! There could be others.

- I have lived ten years in Germany - continued, giving more access to his words to be heard -. I
went daily correspondent in Berlin, and I know these people. Passing crowd filled the boulevard, I
saw with what happens beyond imagination at this hour. Also singing and waving flags roar of
enthusiasm. Are equal to each other externally, but what a difference,
inside!

... Last night on the boulevard, he persecuted people a vociferous shouting: "A Berlin!" is
a cry of bad memories and bad taste.

France does not want conquests His only desire is to be respected, to live in peace without humiliation
or uneasiness. This night, two to go mobilized said: "When we get in Germany they will assess the
Republic ... "The Republic is not a perfect thing, my friends, but it represents something
better to live under an irresponsible monarch by the grace of God. If nothing else, is peaceful
and no personal ambitions that disturb life. And I have moved by the feeling generous of these
two workers, instead of thinking about the extermination of their enemies, they want correct them,
giving them what they consider best.

Tchernoff paused a few moments to smile wryly at the sight that presented
itself his imagination.

- In Berlin, the masses express their enthusiasm
is high, as befits a superior people.

The Underdogs, who are comforted by their humiliation with a gross
materialism, shouting to those hours: "A Paris!

Let them drink free champagne!

"The bourgeoisie pietistic capable of doing anything reach a new honor, and the aristocracy who has
given the world the biggest scandals of recent years, also shouted
"To Paris!"

Paris is the Babylon of sin, city Moulin Rouge and the restaurants of Montmartre, the only places
they know ... And my comrades of Social-Democracy also shout, but they have been taught to another
song: "In Moscow! A Petersburg! We must crush the Russian tyranny, danger of civilization!
"The Kaiser driving the tyranny of another country as a scarecrow for his people ... What a
laugh!

And the laughter of Russian rang in the silence of the night like
a rattle.

- We are more civilized than the Germans - said when he
stopped laughing.

Desnoyers, who listened with interest, made a surprise move and said: "This Tchernoff has drunk something.
"

- Civilization - continued - is not only a major industry in many boats, armies and numerous
universities that teach only science. That is a material civilization. Another top that lifts
the soul and does not allow human dignity suffer without protest continuous humiliation. A
Swiss citizen who lives in his chalet, considering equal to the other men in his country is
more civilized than the Herr Professor has to give way to a lieutenant or the rich in Hamburg
bends like a lackey to which von particle holds.

Here the Spanish nodded, as though divining what was going to add Tchernoff.

- The Russians suffered a great tyranny. I know something about this. I know the hunger and
cold of dungeons have lived in Siberia ... But compared to our tyranny
has always existed a protest revolutionary.

A portion of the nation's half barbaric, but the rest has a mind higher, a high moral spirit
that makes you face dangers and sacrifices for freedom and the truth ... And Germany? Who has
ever objected to it, to defend rights human? What revolutions have been known in Prussia, land
of great tyrants? Founder militarism, Frederick William, when he got tired of beating his wife
and spitting in the course of their children, out into the street club in hand to hit to the
subjects that did not run to time. His son Frederick the Great declared that he died of governing
a people bored slaves. In two centuries of Prussian history, one revolution: the barricades
of 1848 Berlin bad copy of the revolution in Paris, and to no avail. Bismarck pressed hand to crush
the last attempts to protest, if it really existed. And when his friends threatened a revolution,
the ferocious Junker put her hands to the flanks, launching the most insolent laughter. A revolution
in Prussia! ... No one like him known to his people.

Tchernoff was not patriotic. Many times I had heard Argensola speak against his country. But
was indignant when considering the contempt with which the Germanic pride was the Russian people.
Where was, in the last forty years of imperial grandeur, intellectual
hegemony boasted that the Germans?

... Excellent pawns of science and tenacious scholars view short, confined each in his specialty,
lab Benedictines, who worked sometimes a long and successful through huge mistakes given as truths
be yours: that was all. And next to such patient diligence and worthy of respect, what of cheaters!
What big names exploited as a sample of store! Many scholars sanatorium stuck to hotel! ... Herr
Professor discovered a cure of tuberculosis, and consumptive continued to die as before. Another
sign with a figure the winning choice of the most shameful of diseases and genital fever was
sweeping the world. Y all these errors accounted for considerable fortunes, each resulted
in saving panacea to the establishment of an industrial society, selling products at great prices,
as if the pain is a privilege of the rich. How far from the bluff Pasteur and other wise inferior
peoples, who fought the world his secrets to paying no monopolies!

- German science - continued Tchernoff - has given much to humanity, I admit, but science of other nations
has given a lot alike. Only crazy people can be proud imagine that he is everything to civilization and
the others are nothing ... Apart from scholars specialists, what genius has been in our time that Germany
believes that universal? Wagner is the ultimate romantic, closes an era and the past. Nietzsche was
hard to demonstrate his Polish origin and abhorred of Germany, which, he said, of bourgeois
pedants.

Your Slavism was so pronounced that even prophesied the crushing of the Germans by Slavs ...
And there are no more. We savages, have given the world in recent performers times morally
admirable greatness. Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky are universal. What names can be placed in front of
them Wilhelm II's Germany? ... His country was the homeland of music, but this Russian musicians are
more original than the followers the Wagnerian, who take refuge in the exasperation of the orchestra
to hide their mediocrity ... The German people had geniuses in their time of grief, when not
yet born Pangerman pride, when there was the Empire.

Goethe, Schiller, Beethoven, were subjects of small principalities. Were influenced by other countries,
contributed to world civilization, as citizens the world, not occur to the Germanic world should
be paying attention to because their works.

Tsarism had committed atrocities. Tchernoff knew from experience and did not need Germans come
to tell. But all the educated classes of Russia were enemies from tyranny and stood against it.
Where were the intellectuals enemies in Germany Prussian Czarism? Callahan flattery or burst into God's anointed,
musician and comedian as Nero, a lively intelligence and superficial, whereas, touch everything,
thought I knew everything. Eager to reach a scenic position in history had finally afflict the world
with the greatest of calamities.

- Why should it be Russian tyranny that weighs upon my country? The worst czars were imitators of Prussia.
In our times, each time the Polish or Russian people have tried to claim their rights, the
reactionaries used the Kaiser as a threat, saying it would to his aid. One half of the Russian
aristocracy is German, German generals more have distinguished stabbing the people, German officials
argue and advise tyranny German officers who are responsible for killings punish workers' strikes and
rebellion of the peoples annexed. The Slavic reactionary is brutal, but it has the sentimentality
of a race in which many princes are nihilists. Whip raised easily but then repents and cries
sometimes. I've seen them kill Russian officers not to go against
the people or by remorse for having executed massacres.

The German service Czarism no qualms or regrets his conduct kills coldly, methodically detailed
and accurate, as everything runs.

The Russian is a barbarian, paste and repents, the civilized German
shoots without hesitation.

Our Tsar, in a humanitarian dream Slavic stroked utopia generous universal peace, organizing
conferences in The Hague.

The Kaiser of culture has worked for years and years in the assembly and body fatness destructive
as ever was known to crush Europe. The Russian is a humble Christian, egalitarian, democratic,
thirsty for justice, the German boasts of Christianity, but is an idolater as the Germans of
other centuries. His religion loves the blood and maintains the caste, their religion is true
Odin, but now the god of the massacre has been renamed and is called the State.

Tchernoff He paused, perhaps to better appreciate the strangeness of his companions, and then
said with simplicity:

- I am a Christian.

Argensola, who knew the ideas and the history of Russia, made a gesture of astonishment. July insisted
on his suspicions: "Definitely, this Tchernoff drunk."

- It's true - he continued - that I care little about God and not believe in dogmas, but my soul is
Christian like all revolutionaries. The philosophy of modern democracy is a secular Christianity.
Socialists love the poor, the needy, the weak.

Defend their right to life and welfare, as well as the great exalted religion which were at
all unhappy to a brother. We demand respect for the poor on behalf of justice, the others ask
in the name of piety. This only divides us. But a and other men seek to agree to a better life
that the strong sacrifice for the weak, the powerful and the humble and the world is governed
by the fraternity, seeking the greatest possible equality.

The Slavic summarized the history of human aspirations. Greek thought had welfare on earth, but
only for a few, for the citizens of their small democracies, for free men, leaving behind
his misery slaves and barbarians which constituted the majority.

Christianity, the religion of humble, had recognized them all beings the right to happiness,
but this happiness was placed in the sky, away from this world "valley
of tears."

The revolution and its socialist heirs put happiness in the immediate realities of the land, like
the ancients, and made partakers of it to all men, as well as Christians.

- Where is the Christianity of the German present? ... There are more Christian spirit in the
secular socialism of the French Republic, defender of the weak, that religiosity the conservative
Junkers.

Germany has made a god in his likeness, and when you believe worship, is its own image as
he loves. The German God is a reflection of the German State that views war as the primary
function of a people and the noblest of occupations. Other Christian peoples, when they have
to fight, feel the contradiction between their conduct and the Gospel, and excuse themselves saying
the cruel necessity of defending themselves. Germany declares that the war is pleasing to God.
I know German sermons proving that Jesus was a supporter of militarism.

Germanic pride, the belief that race is destined to dominate providentially the world could agree to
Protestants, Catholics and Jews.

- Over their differences of dogma is the God of the State, who is German, the God warrior to which
you may call William at this hour "my worthy partner." Tended Religions always at the universal.
Its purpose is to bring men into relationship with God and support the relations between all
men.

Prussia has retrograded to barbarism created for use personal one second Lord, a god hostile
to the majority of mankind, which their grievances and ambitions of the German people.

Then Tchernoff explained his own way the creation of the Germanic God, ambitious, cruel, vindictive.
The Germans were Christians from the previous day. His six-dating Christianity nothing centuries,
while the other peoples of Europe was ten, fifteen, eighteen centuries. When they were done
and the Crusades, the Prussians were still living in paganism. The pride of race, to push them
to war, was to revive the dead gods. A Like the old Germanic god, who was a warlord, the God of
the Gospel Germans saw adorned with spear and shield.

- Christianity
in Berlin wears a helmet and riding boots.

God is mobilized at this time as well as Otto, Fritz and Franz, to punish the enemies of the
chosen people. Nothing matter who ordered: "Do not kill" and tell your child on earth: "Blessed the
peacemakers. "Christianity, according to the German priests of all denominations, only may influence
the individual improvement of men and should not interfere in the life State. The God of the
Prussian state is the 'old German God, "an heir to the fierce Germanic mythology, an amalgam
of the gods hungry for war.

In the silence of the avenue, Russian red figures evoked the ruthless
gods.

Iban to wake up that night to feel loved in his ears the clash of arms and on his nose the acrid scent
of blood. Thor, the god of brutal small head, stretched his biceps, wielding the hammer that
smashes cities. Wotan sharpened his spear, which is the lightning for iron and shoe thunder.
Odin, the one eye, yawned at the top of gluttony the mountain, waiting for the dead warriors would pile
up around his throne. The Valkyrie disheveled, sweaty and smelling
virgins colt began to gallop from cloud cloud whipping men with howls,
to take the bodies, bent like saddlebags Upon the back of his flying
hacks.

- The Germanic religion - continued Russian - is the negation
of Christianity. For her, men are equal before God. This only appreciate
the strong, and supports them with its influence to dare all things.
Those born weak must submit or disappear. Peoples are not equal: they
are divided into villages and towns lower drivers whose destination
is being shredded and treated by them. God wills it. And it is useless
to say great people that driver is Germany.

Argensola interrupted.
German pride was not based solely on their God also appealed to science.

-
I know that - "the Russian said without letting it -: determinism,
inequality, selection, the struggle for life ... The Germans, so proud
of their worth, built on land foreign intellectual monuments, borrow
overseas foundation material when making new work. A Frenchman and
an Englishman, Gobineau and Chamberlain, have given arguments to defend
the superiority of their race