 Eminent there have been some who, in my opinion, have only managed
to embody the virtues and vices, producing types and symbols with speech and figure human: the
hypocritical, the greedy or the misanthrope, but the creative power to reach beyond abstraction,
generalization, a concept distilled and extracted from the real by speech, body and clothing
after the fantasy, and another to produce real individuals, defined, determined, complex in character
and conditions, as are all creatures human life and more and more perfect life than the life
giving nature: this gift, this art few have had as Shakspeare. Ophelia, Desdemona, Juliet, Miranda,
Beatrice, Hero, Lady Macbeth, Othello, Hamlet, Shylock, Falstaff, Iago, and many others, live
in the minds of men with greater firmness and consistency, the most famous and illustrious men who
were in reality: that all the glorious wise, heroes, politicians and captains who lived in the
world, while that these fantastic characters were coming out of Shakspeare's brain, and provided
the elixir of perpetual youth and life, from the year of 1589 to 1614. Then evaporate away,
fade away from such creations, have gained immortal spirit and virtue, have bathed in new splendor,
have been covered with few spells succeeds in creating art human. The sculptor of cast bronze
has been given the body on the marble, the painter spent on them all the excellence of his brushes
and inks richest of his palette, the recorder has exhausted the refinement and mastery of his
chisel, and the musician has sought and found, to express your passions, the most poignant melodies
and harmonies deeper.

Grande has been the value of Shakspeare to achieve this, but it was more his fortune. Who doubt,
however, that fortune is the most powerful element of value?

Faust, Marguerite and Mephistopheles, and Werther and Charlotte, in German literature, and
only D. Quixote, Sancho, Dulcinea and D. Juan Tenorio, in Spanish, are the characters for notoriety,
fame, glory and splendor, can be compared to the characters of Shakspeare,
in other European literatures.

But it depends on that in the dramas of Lope, Tirso, Calderon, Moreto, Alarcón y Rojas, that
throughout our great Spanish drama no more characters D. John, with much encouragement of life,
so predestination for immortality, like the heroes shakspearianos?

The I really do not exist in our great Spanish drama other characters who live like those. Was
decline of our poets or fortune?

Shakspeare wrote for a people who began to be large, which would extend his empire, to improve
their own civilization castiza and to disseminate and enforce it for all regions the world.
As he wrote to the people, wrote inspired and full of thoughts and feelings Village, and his
mind and his works are swollen with the future; contain in germ all the spirit of England
in the day. Our dramatic wrote also for the people inspired and filled with people's feelings,
but of a people who died, of a people castiza and whose civilization itself would disappear, and
whose spirit then there was no be the spirit of today.

Hence, these heroes speak a language they barely understand and Spanish, and express feelings
and ideas that the Spanish themselves and not participate. How, then,
foreigners have to understand, when the Spanish do not understand
yet?

Those poets, however, were also sovereign, but neither they
nor their heroes, can now live as Shakspeare and his family