 The epic, born of such pruritus,
is a nightmare, a delirium, a chaos, a table revolt, a phantasmagoria, and almost drunk, at the
same time explain and justify little or nothing that bore the ignorant in too deep, and perhaps too
shallow will cause the disdainful smile man philosopher and scientist.

However, the hobby of composing a poetic work of this kind have not only adolescents madmen,
but men of view, sleep and weight, among which, undoubtedly, Goethe excels.

If the company is not impossible, nobody better than him, a century this part, could have do it
in Europe. Let's see what clothes I had, what elements had, and then examined the work itself,
the Faust, which sought to make an oversized and titanic purpose.

Poet Goethe is not only: is the writer par excellence. It includes, but why is approved, Emerson,
assuming the Supreme Soul, whom he represents in the world in many high functions, a number of eminent
men, make Plato the philosopher, the skeptic Montaigne, Napoleon
the man of action, and the writer Goethe.

Goethe's mind was smooth and magical mirror, which reflected the visible and invisible, nature
and history, real and ideal, with brilliance and clarity not common. And mirror was merely passive,
but ordered the images and representations, lit in the most artistic, and made a stand out
more and others were lost or fade away in the last terms in the table,
as befitted the clear demonstration of the truth or clean appearance
and heavenly beauty.

Pair wise poet, all preceded his inspiration, moderate and tempered
by reflection.

His constant desire for truth, it is sometimes branded as indifferent to him and cold; but serenity
does not leave him ever.

Without a living faith in anything supernatural, fixed and concrete, is not easy to rise above
Goethe areas, unless ordered by the thrust of discursive understanding. May not perceive sovereign
unit, perhaps it is not a deep moral sense, perhaps the noblest chords miss his lyre. Much
poorer writers of wit, are more pervasive and accents better touch and hurt the human soul.
But Goethe is ahead of the other poets of his time and even quite a few of the past, because it
covers everything and anything goes skillfully to his poetry. His latest creations seem the
result of eighty years of observation and study. Unrelated events, doctrines, experiments and
speculations, everything is shuffled and grouped in some order around a central idea: the equivalence
of the times, the statement that the disadvantages of an era for the spirits there are only
weak and sickly, the denial that our age is the age of reason as opposed to the age of faith;
and the conviction that faith and reason live in perpetual sync, that poetry and the prose
of life interpenetrate and melt, that the world is young and humanity almost girl, and that
the patriarchs, prophets and visionaries, understand us, through
ages, and we salute and extend our hand, and encourage us to trust
and write New Bibles and join the ground and the sky.

As seen, Goethe was not a believer, if we understand believer who believes in religion; but was far
from being a skeptic. We are inclined to say he was optimistic, as most all major German thinkers,
from Leibnitz to displayed Schopenhauer and Hartmann.

And with regard to the goodness of the spirit of the age, not a believer, but an apostle should
qualify.

Add to that another essential condition of his mind, Emerson points out very well, and Goethe
patenting it with pleasure in Poetry and Truth, which is his autobiography. To Goethe's life
is worth more as theory and practice. Speculation is more noble and high so that action. To
action, so it is most significant and because speculation back on it and taking aim. What
would, what would be worth all this universe; what the pomp of the stars, the harmony of the
spheres, the harmony of the plants and animals, the events of history, the vocation of the races,
the foundation and destruction of empires, the passions, good and
evil, love and hatred, if he had not a mind that understands everything,
who painted at its center, and until you reproduce it with more delicacy,
order, meaning and beauty that it has in itself?

This thought Goethe, a writer from every pore, and this thinking to our own acts, defaults, losses,
pain and misery, are objects of the theory.

Come of that concept, people, usually, a Goethe, rare allegations and no less rare defenses.

It
is assumed that there are sciences and arts, and culture which require perfection terrible
experiments. It is told of a painter who became a bandit and murderer to study well and die
violently men, of surgeons and naturalists, to deepen the mysteries of life and dying, committed
cruel anatomy and dissections of living persons, and even the doctor Vesalius who, taking
advantage of his own favor and favor with the Sultan Amurath, getting
often cut off human heads in front of him to learn in depth of the
contraction muscles, rapid throes of agony and a sense of how it appears
the vital principle of the body that is encouraging.

It seems to us, thank God, such experimental studies have to be very
necessary so that no one later in his office, but if they were, if
such expense would have to earn expertise, would be better to stay
single official or apprentice to get a teacher.

Since this is, we dare to believe that Goethe, though not so bloodthirsty media, is pleased
to cause pain, to excite feelings tender and earnest and pay wrong course, some women in tormenting simple
and love, and other niceties of Similarly, to study well the nature of misfortunes, anguish,
despair and death by broken heart, which then had to describe in
its most sympathetic heroines.

Not concern us write here the life of Goethe, but certainly, well studied and written did not
give reason or excuse for such a harsh accusation.

Moreover, although the moral goodness or badness is independent of
the letters, ie only in degree and in some way.

The difference, for example, between the hero or the martyr and the poet who sings, is that
one is constant and perpetual will, and the other may not have it.

Let us imagine that such a poet shudders if you see a naked sword and even afraid of mouse, and
yet, if it is described and depicted with deep feeling and genuine
expression of the martyr or hero, we believe capable of heroism and
martyrdom.

Is a martyr or hero, if not perpetual, fleeting and momentary, as if it were not, it would be
dishonest and futile his poetry, and anyone of taste would reject as false coin is rejected.

Infer
from the above, still believing the worst of a good poet, we can
only believe that small and weak, not evil.

Who feel and express the good, the noble, the heroic and holy, may be weak, but never wicked
or cruel or vile, or wicked.

For this writer, the critical test of the aesthetic worth of a work
of poetry, involves a certificate of moral worth to the author.

Or the poetry is bad or not bad the author of the poetry. What he said of the mandatory Hispanic-Latino,
a Greek poet said: which was to be primarily good bacon.

But not all indispensable condition put by a poet good moral goodness,
and so, when Goethe accuse no hard and pitiless, accusing him of selfish
in the superlative: claim sacrificed everything for the cultivation
of one's intelligence, his calmness and Olympic rest looking at himself
as a precious object that demanded the most painstaking care.

The defense made some of Goethe at this point, is worse than the prosecution. Presupposes doctrine
more absurd than that of those who believe that to advance in certain trades need terrible experiments.
Doctrine is similar to one that is in fashion, and that is to say that what we call genius is
a disease that comes from the evil of some involved, or atrophy of an entire apparatus, which
develops the expense of the brain, or some disruption of all or part of our body. Say, then, that
genius is as a divinity that resides in the soul of anyone who owns, and whose worship and expression
must be the holder devote his life and sacrifice everything, friendship and love of women, patriotism
and moral law. Thus Goethe's unique defenders who alluded to, assume that the noble sacrifice
poet conditions and even sacred duties, but, far from condemning, commend him for it. His genius
demanded, so that all selfishness, coldness of heart and ingratitude, which attribute the poet
becomes a mockery of the sacrifice of Abraham, if well done to the
genius, God relentless and never stops as the Lord, Isaac and saving
content to a lamb.

The funny thing of this apology did not save as dangerous. Then it only remained but were sufficient
a genius, or believe it, for not complying with the obligations placed on top of every precept
and every Law, discard the heart of everything holy and pure enthusiasm, and be a selfish cold
and disgusting, adding to all the insolence to ensure that is by
devotion and costly sacrifice to the genius himself, and that rather
than censorship, he deserves admiration, praise and awe!

It is wise to believe otherwise: that the genius calls for worship, education and demonstration,
is the virtue and the beautiful passions and true sacrifice. This is not to say that they been
saints all qualified men of genius, but they were geniuses, not because
of their selfishness, meanness and misery, and yes, despite all these
flaws, because if not have had, not only have been better as moral
persons, but as geniuses.

Finally, defense, besides being sophistry, it is useless to Goethe,
whom we see these you're supposed bad qualities, making them good
or covered up by the immoral doctrine of the cult of genius.

Goethe did nothing to achieve his elevation and his favor with the Duke Carl August of moan, who
loved him as much as Goethe might love him, and he admired and flattered him more than the great
poet flattered. In the court of that kind Prince, Goethe, more than courteous, seemed Prince,
the genius who all served and worshiped. Such a high position does not lifted up ever, and he
used it to do good to a few people, and particularly to other scholars, writers and poets, sometimes
noble emulation, envious ever. The same deep friendship and durable, which Goethe knew how to inspire many
people, sharing, evidence that had warmth and tenderness in his soul. As much as is known by high
the garments of understanding, not win and the will when you have no heart. The affection that inspire
knew Gleim, Herder, Wieland, a Merch, a Kestner and many others, proves that Goethe was morally
worthy of that love and able to feel. Of his devotion and zeal in the service of Prince gives
written testimony to the private and official documents in which the prince speaks him. Brotherly
love that joined Goethe Schiller, the beneficial influence exerted on him the largest and highest
influence that Schiller, by repeated confessions of Goethe himself, exercised in his soul, the
Xenia, they wrote together, the most beautiful works of one or the other, which mutually consulted,
correctness and even inspired, prove that Goethe was not selfish,
or at least that if it was, was the most amiable and excellent of
the selfish.

In his love, there is nothing to address the severe morality of the time he lived. And yet the
only thing objectionable is the abandonment of Federica Brion, whose apotheosis was then the
poet Egmont's Clara, in both Marias Clavijo and Goetz, in Wilchem ??Meister Mignon, and the
Margaret Faust. But the true apotheosis of Federica and defense of Goethe made them herself,
when she refused to hand Reinhold Lenz, saying that "What had been loved by Goethe could not belong
to another man, "and when, later, with Goethe and at the height of his glory, said she felt
sorry for that: "It was too big for me, was known to very high places, I had no right to seize
its existence. "Words Santa resignation and love to all evidence, that ennoble Federica, but give
the Once clear testimony that Goethe was not too bad, not badly shattered
her heart, where left so sublime concept of himself and so sweet memory.

Against

Goethe impassive dream protest other loves, and particularly those who inspired Charlotte Buff.

Not
killed by it, but Werther was the price of his redemption and his
life.

Poetry saved him. That tremendous and passionate novel, rather than the poet Goethe is always objective,
that is put out of his work, judging and sentencing her characters without sharing their losses,
The move leaving him still, as the first heaven moves the other areas, also contains its protagonist
to another Goethe, passionate and vehement, that Goethe achieved critical and severe stop at the
edge of the abyss.

In other friendly or loving relationships with women, Goethe always shows passion, not calculation;
fire and not cold, tenderness and unselfishness. The teacher's wife reproached him his youthful Boehme
compositions, amend and pruned mercilessly, and was persuaded after they were bad and made
him burn. What power and authority must not exercise a woman on a poet to force a sacrifice? Schönkopf
Catalina broke with Goethe, not the cold but because tormented with jealousy. Ana Isabel Sohönmann
Goethe inspires the beautiful compositions A Lili and perhaps it is she who leaves him. The Baroness
of Goethe gave Stein a spiritual worship of friendship and esteem, and, since all the enjoyment
of her celebrity made her a judge of merit of their works and some inspiring. Finally, if
Goethe was fascinated by Cristiana Volpius, and lived together with her immoral and scandalous,
amended after the offense, getting married. His idea Love, coupled with the duty of the holy
life and respectable home, and everything beautiful that can enclosed in two stocks humble and
honest, remains forever in the purest romances, in his poem Hermann and Dorothea, which also
left us a sincere expression of German patriotism, then severely humiliated by the Napoleonic
conquests.

We have said that does not concern us write here the life of Goethe.

Suffice it quickly pointed to dispel unfounded blame.

Give him worship his clear intelligence and its other powers, but
should not be censored applaud.

It is a duty to take care of the talents that God entrusts to us. Otherwise, no gain nothing
for them or dispel them badly, is an act of ingratitude and betrayal of trust.

Goethe was able to fulfill this duty required intellectual garments.

His insatiable always arouses curiosity led him to study and learn everything: fine arts, literature
how many people have had it or have it, life sciences, theology,
philosophy and even magic and other occult sciences.

His mind was enriched with all sorts of knowledge.

And not only studied and learned in books, but in the bosom of nature and the revolt current
of human life.

His long life, his untiring activity, his inexhaustible fertility
make the whole his work is great and varied.

It was a lyric poet, epic, dramatic and didactic novelist philosopher, botanist, zoologist,
philologist, author of letters and memoirs, works of aesthetic and archeology, and just seems
to be a subject on which not to leave something written. The Naturalists will always be placed
in very high place to write the annals of science; and philosophers
to write their own history, they can not be forgotten.

Goethe followed
with deep penetration and with keen interest the great philosophical
movement, which verified in Germany during his lifetime. Preserving
their independence, appropriated ideas about and others, as more suited
to the nature of his thought, but coordinating them in it, and giving
them the unique stamp of his person