 Concha was annoyed:

- Do you cry for the little hair? .. Too bad whipping! ... Not your fault, but that you being
raised as a princess as much as us ... I say, unless we - added by
low, - at last we have parents.

- Come on, Concha, leave!

... Never mind, Monin, soon will have hair again - said Mary with maternal stress.

The girl, shocked by the applause, began to sob and left the room.

When evening came in the room, that way, the count could not repress a gesture of anger and
nailed a questioning look on Amalia. It said that gesture and that look with a provocative smile.
And he said aloud as she was told to cut hair because he had noticed
that the girl began to boast.

- Sure!

Both the flatter you that it has been unbearable!

The count, irritated, immediately tried once to approach the conversation Fernanda and knotted
the previous night. They were talkative, affectionate. Fernanda had his life details Paris. Luis
was singularly expansive, not hiding the joy of his heart, speaking emotionally from the angry
eyes of Amalia perched on him.

In a break Fernanda raised smiling eyes towards his ex-boyfriend
and asked, not without blushing a little:

- Do not know why they've
cut the girl's hair?

The count looked blank.

- Yesterday I praised him a lot and let me kiss him.

It was the first time that Fernanda was given cognizance of his secret. Experienced strong shock.
Her cheeks reddened. Those of her too. In long time no words found to say.

In the following days, the count began to walk down the street repeated Altavilla and to spend
long periods in the cafe of Maranhao. The company was moved to laciense ground up to size
event. Since then more than three hundred pairs of eyes will spied on and on. He stopped going
every day at home and attended Quiñones once in a while the meager gathering of the de Mere,
as Lancia was saying, but actually no longer in the world had more than one. Carmelita had died
at least three years. No Nuncia remained but the youngest, and that almost completely paralyzed.
Chair to bed from bed to chair, was all that was with work. Private was also morally of movement,
lack of protective impulse that he lent her his sister. Since it lowered the tomb, and who had no
subject. This, far from cheerful, plunged in a melancholy deep. As he passed suddenly to the category
of person sui juris, the poor girl had distress experienced incredible:
all you scared, it was all conflicts which seemed impossible to leave,
threw least those harsh rebukes that if the shed were abundant tears,
had suppressed his youthful healthy starts and cut the dire results
that could lead to their inexperience.

They were his regular chats Pollastre some new, some roosters known and quite a number more beautiful
and ugly ladies who came to the house-hungry husband. Because the Niña, in this as in all
religiously kept the traditions inherited from her sister. Was resolute protector of all engagements
that were initiated in Lancia, by blundering that were.

The small house on Calle del Carpio was still forging the forge where marital happiness of the
righteous neighbors Lancia.

The record that came over was Paco Gomez. The reason, he had been thrown from house Quiñones
as a result of a phrase of his. Asked a stranger in a circle Altavilla how the Grandee became paralyzed.
"In reality it is not paralyzed - said Paco, - because he has no
injuries whatsoever, except that the legs can not be with heraldry
has gone to his head, and bend it as a step.

" Quinones knew a traitor and ordered not to receive him.

He was the soul and joy of the party of the girl. The incessant go with that mortified the latter had
everyone constantly spasm of laughter.

- Come on, Nuncia, very careful!

Do not talk too much, because you know you've seen the calves y. .. y. .. y. ..

The poor octogenarian blushed like a girl of fifteen. Nothing much as this suffocating unwelcome reminder
of the evening of swing.

Luis and Fernanda started to be here once or twice a week. Far from the gleaming eyes Amalia, it was
comfortable, regained her composure. They talked very long times quietly, without anyone bothering
them, on the contrary, the girl was careful to provide sufficient time and space. Attended,
however, home of Quiñones, saw secret Amalia when it is required,
but would appear colder, more elusive.

She, warning him perfectly did not budge, no one spoke of his ex-girlfriend.

However, one day he could not contained:

- I know you entertain at
home long hours of talking with Fernanda de Mere.

Cowardly denied.

- Be careful what you do - he continued, fixing his eyes he claims - because a treason could
get out side.

He was so accustomed to the domain of that awful woman, she felt a shudder cold, as if something
ominous and hovered overhead. But when he went out into the street, outside the magnetic influence
of those eyes that troubled him, he felt invaded by a deaf irritation: "After all, why threaten
me? Is it my wife? What rights does about me? What we are doing is a grave sin, a crime. Who can
deprive the repentance, reconciled with God and be good?

"Repentance was the Recently a vague wish, thanks to the fatigue of his love and fear further
divestment inspired him to hell. Now it became true longing. Truth that offered greater attractive.
Courageously reject sin, purified, free from the eternal fire ... and also Fernanda possess.

Had
long criminal relations had only a blip, Josefina. If it was not for her, was gone for Lancia.
This creature, white and silent as a snowflake, which had the fragrance of lilies, the innocence
of doves, the sweetness melancholy of a moonlit night, spreading over his soul, tormented by
remorse, a balm to the deliciously refreshing. Many times, holding in his arms, asked surprised
how someone so innocent, so pure, so divine, could be the child of sin! But even during that
same girl was new and cruel torments. Not her alone but from time to time, be forced to hide
their feelings, coldly kiss as other, more coolly than the rest, unable to call her daughter's heart,
do not feel warbling the tender name of father, he was sad and at times he despaired. Desquitábase
when once in a while, very rarely, he consented to take her to the
farm.

They spent hours in ecstasy, holding on his knees, stroking furiously.

The girl had become accustomed to these violent expressions of love
and thanks.

Sometimes blonde felt his head wet by the tears of his friend.

Raised his eyes in surprise but seeing him smile, smiled too, and stretched her coral lips to kiss.

-
Why are you crying, Luis? Do you pupa?

Joseph did not understand why it had more serious in the world to mourn. Luis loved tenderly,
and that shocked and saddened that the coldness that she usually wore. Slowly had been guessing,
with precocious instinct, that the count wanted more than the others
and to conceal.

She also adopted, following the example, an indifferent attitude toward him when in public.
But when alone, we gave with the same enthusiasm to expansions affection, and this without
knowing why, without realizing what he did.

From the day her godmother ordered off her hair, she noticed that there was Josefina disgraced.
I no longer kiss with transportation, and did not meet their minimum food cravings, was no longer
the constant concern of the house. Amalia began to vex, to use her cold and indifferent tone,
and the maids followed the example of his wife.

The poor girl without understanding what that change meant, he felt his little heart tightened;
explored with its beautiful deep eyes the faces and tried to decipher the enigma that kept. It
became more serious, more suspicious, more timid. And he refused to see that toys or goodies
before lent her hands full, he refrained from asking.

Amalia, instead of enjoying as before with their children because
it seemed outrun.

He ordered not take her morning at the bed, as usual. When encountered by chance in hallways,
passed by avoiding her. To all asking the closer to peevish tone:

- You have not washed it yet? But go to fix you. Or: "I was told you could not the catechism. You'll
make very lazy. Beware that you are good, because otherwise I locked in the cave of the mice.
"

Before her was busy taking her lessons, put the needle in the hand and guide their tiny fingers.
Now this task usually left to the maids. He lived in a state grim concern that did not happen
desadvertida the servants. Josephine also guessed; I saw that her godmother was changed, not
only with respect to it, but his whole way of being. And there, vaguely in the dark limbo of
his thinking that spawned the idea was sad, suffering and that this was the cause of your bad
mood.

One day the lady was alone in his cabinet.

It had dropped into a chair. Still, head thrown back and hands earrings, seemed asleep. However,
Josephine that was around the cabinet, dared to look through the
crack in the door and noted that it had eyes open, wide open, and
his brow was furrowed anxiously.

Without knowing what that was done, with that blind children have
confidence in themselves, opened the door and into the room.

He approached the lady quietly, and fell suddenly on his lap, he
said, fixing her a look of timid affection

- Kiss me, godmother.

The lady shook.

- How you doing here? Who gave you permission to enter?

Have not you been told not to go up without call you? - asked further
wrinkling his brow.

- I wanted to kiss - Josefina said dully.

-
Let me kisses.

Go, go watch it again without my permission.

But the girl, overcome by emotion, not knowing what to attribute this
indifference and willing overcome at all costs, next to mourn, fell
further on his lap and tried to climb to reach his face.

- Kiss me,
godmother.

- Remove!

Let me! - Preventing it lifted the lady replied.

The girl persisted.

- Do not you want me?

Give me a kiss.

- To take off, kiddo! - Shouted angry .-- Get out now!

At the same time gave a hard push.

Josefina, after staggering, fell to the ground, giving head at the
foot of a chair.

Alzose touching his sore spot, but did not cry. A sense of dignity that many Sometimes you stay strong
in children's hearts, lent strength to resist tears gushing into
her eyes.

Turned to her godmother a look of indescribable sadness and left running from the room. When
he reached the stairs he fell on a step and broke sobbing.

The thorns of life began to dig cruelly delicate meats that girl, who until then had found only
flowers in their path. The detachment grew Amalia day by day. At the same time so did the reserve
and shyness of their daughter. But as the end I was a kid, this sadness disipábase sometimes
the impulse of a whim. So it was when it really showed the coldness and dislike of the lady.

-
Madam, Josefina not wear the green dress.

- What then?

- He says he is dirty.

Amalia got up, went to the room of the girl and taking her by the arm and shaking her roughly,
said

- What pride is that? Do not you know, wrist, which in this house you are nobody? What are you
here mercy? Be careful not to get angry, because when you least expect you planted in the
street where I have collected.

Maids heard these words and had very present. Josefina hitherto had been treated as a daughter of
Mr.: henceforth it was regarded as a false child: later, as upstart. The servants pleasure
of revenge with meticulous care before she had to lavish, those receiving harsh rebukes by their
cause. Concha In particular, the microscopic maiden, he felt a joy unspeakable, characteristic
of a vindictive nature, whenever Mrs. somehow showed his disdain for the child collection.

It occupied a room overlooking the garden, bright and spacious. Concha, although first maid
and seamstress in the house, were staying in a dark little room with
patio window, which shared with Mary.

Josefina's cabinet had been provided for her an object of envy. More than once expressed in
words rather heavy for it.

Taking advantage of the disposition of his mistress, was allowed
to sleep well in this cabinet, under the pretext of Paula, who occupied
an adjoining room, was a heavy sleeper.

Comfortably seated himself, he using the toilet and the girl's belongings. A few days later sent
her to sleep with Mary in his old room without saying a word to her mistress. When she found out,
had passed some time: free scolded for not giving rough part, but
did not change the facts accomplished.

Later it occurred to him otherwise degrade. Josefina ate at the table with the lords. The high
and mighty Grandee had not consented to the top: touted by wife,
gave the order, not without reluctance.

Shell penetrated the dislike of his wife, began to plot to deprive this honor to the collection.
Exaggerating what was to be done, how much staining and what disturbed the table service, which
ultimately did not sit and yes it into a little girl who was put on the fourth of the plate,
next to the kitchen. A few days later the same Amalia, in a fit of bad temper, said that this
double service could not be tolerated and will take her to the kitchen
to eat with the servants.

Concha sat on a stool, put a saucer of mud and wooden spoon in hand
and said

- Come.

The girl looked up stunned, but to see the evil grin that shone in his eyes the maid, underthe again
and began to eat without protest.

Concha was not satisfied; wished they rebel mourn view.

- What is that? Do not like the spoon? ... Well, daughter, eat with it, and also how I I'm as
good as you ... What did you think, goofy! Did you think that because you put the hat cambric
shirt and you were a lady ... The ladies do not come tucked in a basket between dirty ...

And there continued releasing jets sarcasm and insults, until at last the poor Josephine began
to mourn. The other maids, less malevolent, were, however, flattered by that humiliation.
At last they did their part, tried to comfort her, while Concha ruthless, tougher and cooler
than marble, chasing a long time continued to boo bloody.

A few days later, Josephine across the room from the plate to go to
the dining room, heard Concha said turning to Mary:

- Say, girl,
have you ironing and clothing hospiciana?

He paused, not knowing whom he meant, and carried his eyes suspicious of one another domestic until
a laugh, both released at the same time, made him understand that this was it.

- Why do you call me hospiciana? - Said the innocent struggling to not mourn .-- I will say
my godmother.

- Lift, runs to tell! - Concha said pushing on the door.

Since then no other name given among the servants.

Amalia forbidden to take her to the living room at night.

The count, who no longer see his daughter more this time, demanded
an explanation.

The lady said, having to get up early to study their lessons, he needed more sleep. He did
not believe that for. Included that it was a dastardly revenge, but was careful to keep silent,
fearing further damage.

Amalia then came up most directly hurt.

The girl, who had been deprived not only for his touch, but of all its preeminence in the house,
on his way to being a maid more. In a flash was completely transformed. The lady gave orders
to guard him all the hats and dresses and secure his the poorest and oldest in the room; that
might make him a gown as the other servants, and are employed in the necessities of I could
run the kitchen.

The Loves of Count and Fernanda were becoming more noticeable. Although they kept house Quiñones
be discussed with privacy, Valencia will not be jealous that hid between them existed. His
eyes pierced like two rays of light on her lover's brain and read
clearly in him.

Luis was in love with his former girlfriend. Adulterous relationships he endured in the soul
like a slab of stone. She, the beloved, beloved of other days, it seemed now old and withered
face that splendid rose just open fully. If not had left and was due to weakness of character,
by the powerful influence that in seven year relationship had acquired over him. But it felt like
something else. I read it perfectly fled in their eyes, in the grim concern that weighed on
him, sometimes broken by sudden and extravagant joy in fear and servility,
increasing, with which approached her.

One night the Count asked for a glass of water. Amalia's eyes flashed
suddenly.

There awaited moment arrived. Rang the bell and said the maiden singular inflection who attended:

-
Paula, bring a glass of water.

A few moments later she appeared Josefina, poorly dressed, with a
fabric mandilito coarse, rough shod your feet with shoes, supporting
work between his small hands a tray with a glass of water and sugar
cube.

The circles were stunned. Luis pale.

He moved the girl to the middle of the room, looking timidly at her godmother. This made him a
sign that come near the count.

The gentleman hesitated as if distracted, but seeing the creature planted before him, hastened
to take the cup and took it with a trembling hand to his lips.

Eyes Amalia were shown as cold, indifferent, but his lips had undetectable tremors revealing the cruel
joy I felt. Reigned in the party, while Following this stage, a significant silence.

After Joseph had gone, Mrs. Quinones said his conversations with ease that move. It was a necessary
punishment to the pride that the girl began to show with the servants.
Not last long.

However, needed to beat the clock will Quinones, who opposed it was brought up with much care.

-
The truth is - concluded with an accent so natural that any actress would find it more appropriate
to the occasion, - the truth is that sometimes I can not help him right in me. What good would it
do to this poor girl placing her in a situation where there has to be sustainable? Tomorrow
we die, the poor need to scratch a living working, unless they find
a husband ... What husband is going to give a girl needs and no money?

The circles did not fall into the trap. In reality neither she intended. Everything came to be reduced
to pure convention, since no one is hiding what was underneath. Soon after, unable to master the discomfort
he felt, the count dismissed.

- The business of Louis does not appear at all well - said late Manuel Antonio in a group who
retires by Altavilla Street, where they were Maria Josefa, the Pensioner
and his daughter Jovita .-- The Fernanda married, if he gets to perform,
it must cost much trouble.

- Do you think Maria Josefa ?...-- asked
to pull his tongue.

- Mother!

... Are you dumb, woman? Do not know Amalia like me?

- What must
be based on the marriage of Amalia Luis? - Asked Jovita, who as maiden,
but had turned thirty-two patent suit him do his candor.

- Ay! It
is true that we had here this fanciullina - exclaimed, making funny
gestures fright, the fag .-- I had no charge! ... Nothing, Monin,
nothing moves forward, these are things of the great ...

Pensioner's
daughter became angry when he felt the pinprick and replied with a
phrase insolent. Pagola Manuel Antonio with another, and engaged in
lively overflowing with words bitter dispute and intended that lasted
until retired house, but not before he had made some vain efforts
to make peace between them. Took the best part, as always, the queer,
they had to launch their sentences the force of men and the subtle
intention of females.

The next day the count did an interview with
Amalia and gave his complaints about the scene the previous night.
The lady said kindly, condescending, he justified his conduct by the
good of the child. Luis noted, however, speaking in a particular way,
thought he heard in the honey of his words a hint of bitterness and
irony that startled him. Came worried restless: in a few days of each
other could not remove the discomfort of that interview.

But love
set fire rapidly in all the chambers of his soul and consumed at the
end that last bit of concern. He was deeply in love. And as always
happens, growing alongside her love also increased his shyness. At
first, in their long conversations Fernanda, appeared serene, polite,
forgiving no way of proving to his ex-girlfriend admiration and performance.
Suddenly began to lose his poise, to flee all matters related to their
own feelings, avoid phrases gallant. Fernanda was not wrong. Now is
the time that love had come, after which time both had run, so many
tears had cost.

His talks, but were indifferent affairs, had a delicate,
exquisite