 I tell thee the thing out of line! There is no heart to see such evil!

- Shut up, Tonton, meddling - jumped Concha .-- Who gives you sail to you in this burial? If
Mrs. wants to teach this girl as fair, is going to consult you on how you must do? Do you know
what's even raise children? If there you have it punishes prize that
this will make a working woman, honest!

Someday I will thank you.

- Yes, thanks! Since the cemetery is the will. In one month this part the girl is unknown.

- Well, will you and what you will or do you come here? Are you his mother?

Three or four times rebuked in this way, always taking advantage of
their insolence and the microscopic malice seamstress.

After all, Mary, unable to endure with patience the spectacle, took the decision to leave. There
was a day a lady, and the Grilled excuse that it hurt asked for the bill. Not concealed from
the real Amalia reason, it was aware of their murmuring. Concealed, however.

- Yes, daughter, you understand that the ironing bored.

You do not enjoy in good health.

I'm also below par for days. I have altered nervous system. Fighting life with a sick and now,
to finish off the party, get out that little girl, whom she founded my hopes, so ungrateful
and wicked!

I do not know how I have patience.

Mary hesitated.

- You see, ma'am ... Children are children.

Grandee's wife realized that if he continued on the subject, the laundress was going to say
something unpleasant and hastened to cut the conversation, paying your account and dismissing
with affability.

Did not prevent this that the home say in confidence, in a house where he was to serve what was
going on Quinones. The news was conveyed in confidence, also, of
each other. Soon enough people were aware of the cruelties were that
the child was committed.

The Count de Onis, to escape the public's
curiosity, that bothered him greatly, and even more to get rid of
Amalia, had moved, without telling it, was already near one month
at the Farm. His mother accompanied him. There had written to his
ex-mistress, but All day I thought so, to inform him of its decision.
Such was the fear Valencian had come to inspire, the pen fell from
his hands every time you take for news of his marriage. And let slip
the days continued hesitation, thinking concern at the anger that
she would take over, hoping, like all weak, in that some unforeseen
event commitment deliver him