 The room contained all the wealth of the artist: an iron bed, it was still
the Seminary, a harmonium, two plaster busts of Beethoven and Mozart and a lot huge package of
music, scores bound, loose-leaf lined paper, but so great, so upset and confused, often collapsed,
filling with white flutter to the ends.

- This is going in the rooms - Wooden Staff said the accents of kindness counterclaim -.

You never have a penny. Just take the pay, ask for more old papers to Madrid! Had better, Don
Luis, bought a new hat, even if modestito, that the gentlemen of
the choir they mocked the coverage on her head.

In the winter evenings after choir, musician, and Gabriel took refuge in that room. The canons,
fleeing the cold wind or rain, giving his daily walk through the galleries the upper cloister,
with the desire not to be deprived of this exercise was used to its methods. The water from
the sky hitting the windows of the garret window.

A sad and gray clarity in the afternoon flipping through the books or the teacher had run their hands
on the organ, talking to Gabriel, who sat on the bed.

Inflamed the musician talking about his adoration of art. In the midst of an enthusiastic peroration
silent, bowing to the organ, and the melodies of the instrument filled
the room, descending the stairs to reach the cloister passers like
a distant echo.

Suddenly ceased to play the most interesting passage and resumed his talk, as if afraid in its
continuous distraction ideas will evaporate.

The silent moon was the only audience he had met in the cathedral,
the first long hours listening to him or to have mad fun, but rather,
showed with his brief interruptions and questions the taste with which
he heard.

The end of the conversation every evening was the same: the greatness of Beethoven, priest idol
artist.

- I've loved all my life - said the Kapellmeister -. I raised a brother Jerome, a exclaustrated
old man, who, after leaving the convent, ran some of the world as a teacher cello. Jeronimos
were the greatest musicians of the Church. You will not know this; I also would know if born
shortly after I had taken under his protection that holy man, it was for me a real father. It
seems that every religious order dedicated in its heyday to a specialty. Some believe that
the Benedictines, scoring books old; other liquors manufactured for the ladies, were beyond
the hands of gold birdcages, and studied seven years Jerónimos music, dedicating each to instrument
of their choice. They should be preserved in the churches of Spain a little, a little nothing of
good taste in music. And what orchestras, as I told my godfather, were in their monasteries Jeronimos!
For the ladies it was a pleasure to go on Sundays afternoon the parlor, where they found the
good fathers, each of which was an instrumentalist profesorazo. They were the only concerts
at that time. With the pittance insured, without having to worry about home or dress and having
the love of art throughout obligation, just imagine you, Gabriel, what could go musicotes. So
when they cast a monks from their convents, went wrong Jeronimos not delivered. Nothing masses
begging by churches or cadge with devout families. They had to make a living one thoroughly
studied art and then placed in the cathedral as organists and Precentor. The councils are the
contention. Some were more daring, and willing to see close musical world that appeared to them
in the convents as a paradise fantastic, entered the theater orchestras, traveled, made his escapades
beyond by Italy, becoming thereby, neither in a hundred years had recognized his former prior.
One of them was my godfather. What a man! It was a good Christian, but so is He dedicated himself
to music, that it was very little of the old monk. When he was told, soon be restored convent, shrugged
his shoulders with indifference. He was interested plus a new sonata. Well, Gabriel, the man had
phrases that remain in my memory forever. One day, when I was a kid, I was in Madrid for a meeting
of musicians friends executed for themselves the famous Septimino. Did you know? The work more
'fresh' and more Beethoven's funny. I remember my godfather out of hearing self-absorbed, head
low, pulling me, I could barely keep their stride. When we got home, stared at me as if I were
an adult. "Hey, Luis - he said - and remember well this. In the world there is more than a
"Lord" Jesus Christ, and two "gentlemen" Galileo and Beethoven ... "

The musician looked lovingly plaster bust from a corner watching the
little room lion with eyebrows and eyes of dull sullen.

- Galileo
I do not know - continued Don Luis -.

I know it was a wise man, a genius of science. I'm just a musician and I understand little of
these things. But I adore Beethoven, and I think my godfather came
up short.

He is a god, is the most extraordinary man who has produced the world. Would not you think so,
Gabriel?

His nerves vibrating with enthusiasm, stood up and paced the room,
stomping the papers strewn on the floor.

- Ah, how I envy you, Gabriel,
who has run the world and have heard such good things!

The another night I could not sleep thinking about what you told me about his life in Paris: those
afternoons on Sundays, so beautiful running after lunch, sometimes
at concerts Lamoreux, other than those of Colonna, giving a surfeit
of sublimity ... And here I am locked up no other hope to direct some
misita Rossini in the great festivals ...!

My only consolation is to read music, learn by reading the great works that so many idiots heard
in the cities asleep or bored. I have in that pile there's nine symphonies the "Man", countless
sonatas, his mass, and with him Haydn, Mozart, Mendelssohn, all the big guys, in a word. So
I have to Wagner. I read, I play the harmonium what is possible, and what ...? It is as if a
blind man describing with great eloquence the drawing a picture and colors. Buried in this
faculty, I know, like the blind, which is in very beautiful things the world ... but hearsay.

The
choirmaster last year kept a memory of happiness, and spoke of him enthusiasm. At the suggestion
of Cardinal-Archbishop had gone to Madrid to be part of a court competitions for organists.

-
It was the great season, Gabriel: the best of my life. One night I met Wagner, but openly, as
they say in their own juice. Dressed in clothes of a violinist friend to some sometimes plays
at parties in Toledo, I heard The Valkyrie in the paradise of Real. Another night I attended
concert. The big night, Gabriel, as they say nothing!

The Ninth Symphony this guy ugly, the dull temper that is listening.

And a jump, the musician came to the bust, humbly kissing children,
like a child pet the father frowning and awesome.

- You know the
Ninth Symphony, is it, Gabriel?

What you experience hearing it ...? To me, the music I can think of weird things: I close
my eyes and unknown landscapes, faces strange, and it is remarkable that so many times as I hear
the same works are repeated identical visions. If I speak of this with the people below, call
me crazy. But you belong to me, and I fear to mock. There are passages of music that makes me
see the sea, blue, enormous, with waves of silver (Even though I've
never seen the sea), other works before me develop forests, castles,
groups white shepherds and flocks.

With Schubert duos always see the bottom of sighing lovers a lime, and some French musicians
are paraded by my imagination beautiful ladies strolling among flower
beds dressed in purple roses, purple always.

And you, Gabriel, Do not you see things?

The anarchist nodded. Yes, also aroused in him a fantastic world music, visions more beautiful than
reality.

- I - went on the priest - I remember what I did see the Ninth, I see now only humming some of its
passages. Oh, that's so funny scherzo, with its original tremolo tom! It seems to me, hearing
him, that God and his holy court have come from heaven to give walk, leaving homeowners little
angels. Wide freedom!, General revelry! The Sky Blues urchins, no respect, jump from cloud to cloud,
plucking entertains on land garlands of flowers that have left forgotten
the saints.

You open the chamber from rain and makes it fall on the world, another is about the key of thunder
and touch: Creepy strengthen the playing turf and put to flight!

But return again and continues funny round, repeating again cut the noisy antics of thunder. And
the adage? What do you say to him? Do you know of something sweeter, more loving and so divine
serenity? Humans do not come to talk and make more progress. Together we famous lovers, not
find any modifications of tenderness of those instruments seem to caress. Hearing him, I thought
these ceilings frescoed with mythological figures. Saw nudes, juicy meat soft curves, something
like Apollo and Venus flirting on a pile of pink clouds in the golden light of dawn.

- Chaplain, who falls you - said Gabriel -. That's not very Christian.

- But is artistic - simply said the musician -. I deal with little religion. I think what I
was taught, and I took the trouble to find out more. I just worry about the music, which someone
said to be "the religion of the future ', the purest manifestation of the ideal. All that is
beautiful and I think I like it as a work of God. "I believe in God and Beethoven, "as his disciple
.... Also, what religion is the greatness of the music? Do you know the last quartet that Beethoven
wrote? He was dying, and on the verge of score wrote this terrifying
question: "Is it necessary?"

And further added, "Yes, it is necessary need.

"was necessary to die, being a genius, give up life while still carrying on head so sublime,
pay tribute to human renewal, without regard to Her Majesty's demigod. And then wrote this
lament, this farewell to life, whose greatness can not be matched by any song, by any word
of religion.

The musician sat at the organ, and for a long time sounded the last lament genius, referred
pain to transpose the threshold of life, not desperate and trembling by fear of the unknown, but
a manly melancholy, which is immersed in the eternal shadow with confidence that nothing will
gnaw vain glory.

These evenings of artistic fellowship at the corner of the cathedral
numb linking to two men with a growing affection.

The musician was speaking, singing leafing through his scores, or the organ sounded, the groundbreaking
listened quietly without interrupting your friend rather than your chest cough sick. Were
afternoons of sweet sadness, which permeate these two men: one, dreaming of leaving the prison
of stone of the cathedral see the world, the other back to life,
wounded and discouraged, happy the rest dark the beautiful ruin and
keeping with prudent silence the secret of his past.

Art shone for them as a ray of sunshine in the drab grayness and the cathedral.

Being in the cloister in the morning, the dialogue was always similar between the two friends.

-
In the afternoon, huh? - Said mysteriously Kapellmeister -. I have fresh papers. Let to taste something
new that I bring today. In addition, I wrote a little something last night.

And the anarchist answered yes, happy to serve in some form of entertainment to that pariah of art,
who saw in him their only audience and entertained him to keep him.

While lasted the divine, Gabriel walked alone in the cloister.

All men were in the cathedral, except the cobbler who taught the giants. Tired of the talk women
leaning out the doors of the Claverias, up to the room of Ringer,
his old comrade in arms, and descended to the garden by the monumental
step when Tenorio was open or the Archbishop bow across the street.

He liked to spend an hour among the trees. Equal in the garden of memories family in the upstairs
bedroom. Tired also stumbling always walks stone wall that reminded her prison, the mobility
needed cherished vegetation by the wind, forging the illusion of living free in the countryside.

In
the gazebo, where he saw his father at one time, nearly immobile by age, shouting his eldest son,
who resigned welcomed all indications, was now at Aunt Tomasa knitting
and following work watchful eyes of a tall boy who had taken at your
service.

Gabriel's aunt was the most important person in the Claverias. His word was as good as of Don Antolin.
Silver Stick feared her, bowing to the powerful protection all guesses
behind the poor woman.

In the time that his father, maternal grandfather of Gabriel, was sacristan of the cathedral,
acted as an altar boy a little boy, a nephew of benefit that ended up costing the race at the
seminar. The half-century altar boy before was now prince of the Church and Cardinal-Archbishop
of Toledo.

Old Thomas and the children had known, in the upper cloister fighting for possession of a holy
or doing tricks on the beggars acup Muffin door. The imposing Don Sebastian that shook with
a look to the council and all the priests of the diocese, showed himself happy, fraternal and confianzudo
when from time to time saw Tomasa. It was the only memory live the remainder of his childhood in
the cathedral. Besábale old ring with great reverence, but then he spoke as a member of his
family, it was shortly tutearle. The Cardinal, at all times surrounded by fear and adulation,
needed from time to time frank and careless treatment of the planter. They claimed the people
of the cathedral, Mrs. Tomasa was the only one who could tell the truth face to face with His Eminence.
And Claverias neighbors felt flattered the pride of outcasts when they saw the ecclesiastical
prince Drag your living red cassock by stone terraces to sit in the conservatory more than an
hour chatting with the old, while relatives stood respectfully foot in the door of the gate.

A proud Tomasa not honored. For her, the prince was merely ecclesiastical a childhood companion
who had had some luck. At best, it was Don Sebastian, without happen later in treatments and
formulas of respect. But his family knew to take advantage of this friendship, especially his
son, the Blue Lady, a rosary, he said the old, who made money until the cobwebs of the temple, an ant
insatiable, using the friendship of the cardinal and his mother, was acquiring new privileges
without priests sacristanes and dared the slightest protest against him, seeing him so well
protected.

Gabriel liked dealing with his aunt. It was the only person born in the cloister seemed to have
escaped the numbing influence of the church. He loved the Cathedral as their home manor, but
did not seem to impose great respect the holy shrines and dignities human who sat in the choir.
Laughed with the joy of a healthy and peaceful old age, sixty years, as she claimed, were innocent
of any such damage. His language was disrespectful and free, like a woman who has seen much and
does not believe in human dignities or virtues impregnable.

The depth of her character was tolerance, compassion for all defects but indignant against
those who sought to hide.

- All are men, Gabriel - said his nephew, speaking of the lords of the cathedral -. Don Sebastian
is a man too. All sinners, and with much to answer to God. Can not be otherwise, and I apologize. But
trust me, nephew, and many times I want to laugh when I see people kneeling before them. I believe
in the Virgen del Sagrario and a little in God, "but these gentlemen? If as I know ...! But in
the end, we all live, and the worst is not defective, but hide them,
make the comedy as the shameless my son, that's where you see, big
as a castle, chest slaps, kisses soil as well as the pious, is looking
my death, I keep thinking that something in my chest, and removes
the brush may the Virgin, and steal the candles and cheating in the
collection of the masses, and it would be in the street if it were
not for me, I think of my daughter, always sick and the poor little
grandchildren.

When Gabriel came down to see her in the garden, I received the same greeting:

- Hello, fright! Today looks better, you'll pickpocket. It seems that your brother will get
you out forward with much care.

Then came the comparison between healthy and vigorous old age and youth that ruined it tenaciously
defended himself to death.

- Here you see my sixty years: not a disease in my entire life.

Summer and winter, I never hear four in the bed, I have full dentures
and as the same as when Don Sebastian came with his red cassock loving
acolyte to remove a part of lunch.

You the Moon You were always feel weaker, your father, before arriving at my age, he could not
move and complained of rheumatism and humidity of this garden.

It is me, and nothing: I am the same than when they came down from the Claverias. We are Villalpando
iron: for something descend Villalpando that famous gate was the
main altar and the Custody and countless wonders.

Should be a big man, judging by the ease with which twisted and molded all kinds of metals.

The physical destruction of Gabriel awoke in her deep sympathy, evoking at the same time malicious
assumptions.

- What I've amused by those worlds, eh, cousin? For you, the war was a ruin. Now would be in your seat
in the choir, and who knows if he would be another Don Sebastian! The truth is that he, a boy,
gave less to talk to you at the seminar, and was not a prodigy of wisdom .... But the world saw,
you took a taste to those countries where they say that there are
matrons very pretty, with a hat and an umbrella.

You are made a mess now ugly, but before you were handsome, I'm telling you, I'm your aunt,
and clear!, and has turned desmirriao sick.

You have lived too fast. Who knows what things you've done for the world, sly! And your poor mother
raised you to saint! Good holy God gives us ...! I deny it, do not be good: the lies make me
angry. You have fun, and have done well; You caught by the hair all the time. The bad thing is how
you've been, how you've become here, you feel sorry to see you. I have met many like you. I do
not know why people have Church, what evil spirit have inside, that when life goes bad is to
not stop, and burn and burn without any caution until there is neither the place. As you have
spent many the Seminar.

One morning, Gabriel made his aunt a question that had been prepared a long time without daring
formulate. Wanted to know what was his niece Sagrario and what had happened at home his brother.

-
You who are so good, man, you tell me. Everyone seems afraid to talk about it. Up Tato my nephew
who is so talkative and peeling all the Claverias, calla when I ask something. What happened,
aunt ...?

Darkened the face of the old.

- A great misfortune, son, what had never been seen in the upper cloister.

Follies world entered the cathedral, and were to build a nest in the house just more honest,
more oldest and most respectable of the Claverias. We're all good, at last, people who have
not seen the world and through a hole and live here as preserved,
but the moon have been how good the best, and not to mention the Villalpando,
that you are behind.

Oh, if your mother lifted her head!

If your father were alive ...! Whom I give all the blame on your brother, by good-natured, and
simple, the damn hobby of all parents who defy danger hoping to place well to the girls ....

-
But how was auntie? What happened with my niece and the cadet?

- What happens often in the world and this never happened. A thousand times he preaches your
brother, 'Look, Stephen, this gentleman is not for your daughter. "Very nice, very lively, wearing
the uniform of the Academy as one, and led the frenzied group of cadets in their escapades
around the city.

In addition, the son of a great family wealthy big shots never let
him go with empty pocket Toledo.

And she, poor tabernacle Bobito of love for his junior nutty, proud when walking on Sunday or
Miradero Zocodover between her mother and boyfriend so handsome that he envied the ladies of the
city. Beauty your niece was talking to all Toledo. The College of the nicknamed by Noble Maidens
envy "the sacristan of the cathedral," but she, the poor thing only lived for his cadet and seemed
to drink it with his big blue eyes. The beast let your brother go at home, very proud of the
honor that was to the family. You know, Gabriel: the eternal blindness Toledo certain middling accepting
the engagement as a glory of cadet the girl, despite being very rare cases where these loves come to
marriage. Here no woman holding a palm and escape medium having had its crumb of fond and red
pants. Even I remember that girl I stroked my hair and stretch skirt when she heard a saber
drag slabs of the cloister. It is a blindness passed from mother to daughter, and that they,
the damned, have their premiums or their girlfriends there in their land, and they become so out
of the Academy.

- Well, aunt, but what stopped him from my niece?

- When this gentleman came lieutenant, his family got him to Madrid. The Farewell was the work
of theater. I think even the bragazas your brother and his simple woman (God rest his soul) cried
as if they were the bride.

The boys were caught both hands, and so were the hours, staring into
the eyes as if to eat.

He was quieter, promised to come every Sunday, to write every day. At first he did, but after
weeks went by without a trip and the postman came with less frequency to Claverias until he
came not to raise .... No more: the lieutenant was in Madrid Master other occupations.