 There will win
a little more.

- I fear one thing ....

- What?

Do not serve the purpose?

- Yes ... What I mean things of the field!

-
Learn, boy.

Do not be shy, because you'll never do letter.

You'll be very happy there.

Fernandez is a very fine person. Treat your employees well. And if you do not, you obliged not
to miss .... Farewell, my boy! I have around a sick amount gravity, a rancher, who is flying
to another world.

Tendióme hand, adding:

- Nothing to say that Castro Pérez employment in Santa Clara.

Huh? Already warned. Hush! Do not grieve to see your aunt. That's nothing!

The patient was quiet, access had happened. However, the night was painful. Angelina and my aunt passed
it straight. From my room I heard them coming and going.

Then I realized all the devotion of the maiden. He took care of the old sweet and kindly, daughter
affectionately.

Thin and kind to all, with her extreme her delicacies. The pampered; all their wishes were
commands to Angelina, and suffered resigned dislikes and reprimands, capricious evil sick
humor, that nothing is happy, and are impatient without reason.

- This girl - I talked Aunt Pepa - is an angel, I think that's why they got Angelina. No have
restful sleep, every night up two or three times to see Carmen and give food and medicine.
I do not like it, because it has an obligation to ensure your aunt. It's my turn. I already said,
but she would not, for anything in the world, I got up I at the wrong time. The other day,
as I said I was going to watch Carmen, I said a little Mohina as impatient and annoyed, "No,
ma'am. If I do it gladly! You no longer is for that. By day you have a lot to work. No, no,
the day that I do not want to do, I do not. " Look, Rorra: I think Angelina has to stop at Sister
of Charity. One day we talked about that came out saying: "Yes, ma'am, why not?" And it is very
capable of being a model Sisters of Charity to teach the same children, to care for ill. Mr.
Cura said the other day, at Don Roman, who is not at Conferences San Vicente another member as
Angelina. It is now secretary of the Conference of the Parish and everyone is very happy. I
do not know if Angelina will be born to be married, but the truth,
Rorra, if you marry Angelina to give me pleasure, much, much, yes,
because I love as much as you, as she deserves, because it would all
be at home, because that girl I regard it as something we, as a person
of the family.

XXI

Villaverde rejoices from time to time, and has its festivals and popular rides. No always be sad
and moody.

On May 3 the villaverdinos come to the grassy mall Santa Catalina. Pass morning in the alleys of brush,
walk around the neighborhood gather at the "solar" and there they will eat the traditional turkey mole,
tamales and beans, in the shadow of orange and 'jinicuil "murmuring.

In the afternoon, men and women, old and young and children up to the hill of brush, where an old
drunk, and half mad by the spirits, and well known of my countrymen, drives a large wooden cross
on a rock on the eastern slope, to the sound of music, the bursting
of firecrackers and firing of Morteretes.

But the most beautiful promenade is the second of November, in a small
town located near the edge left of the Barranca de Mata Thick, not
far from the point where rapid and foaming plunges the Stony, forming
picturesque waterfall.

Run through the streets that day and you will see empty Villaverde. Everyone is on tour; the poor as
well as the rich.

They leave their families early in the morning, before the hot sun after hearing two or three Masses
for the dead.

There in the damp, wooded streets of Old Town, you will find all villaverdinos: some on horseback,
wearing the quarrelsome and well caparisoned horse, tight pants, hat El Zarape sumptuous and multi-colored,
others old and rickety carriages, the more, gentlemen steed in San Francisco.

From the village entrance principle positions - the "vintages" as they say in Villaverde -
the inns and taverns, improvised under a canopy of cloth, or the shade of an arbor. For fruit
vendors everywhere, towers, peanuts, of "tepache" biscuits and candy. Ice cream, soft drinks,
spirits, everything is out there. Are there things to all tastes. From afar mole perceive the smell
of boiling in large pots, and I will stunned the incessant shouting of the vendors, kids screaming,
and singing bacchanalian of the craftsmen who have taken the "fox."

The villagers, indigenous vicious and lazy, their homes are invaded by the crowd, and scared
to walk indizuelillos the coffee or poke through the fences of grass to watch the passersby. Call
them, and immediately start running like deer pursued.

In the thickets smell copal burned, and the street to the door of the cabins a trail of "cempaxóchiles"
will lead you to where he was the "offering" dedicated to the souls of those who left this forever
world of pain.

It is curious to note that my countrymen, Buddhists villaverdinos never rejoice and rejoice in a day
so dreary and so painful memories. Could not be otherwise in the city of the "sad souls."

I
sighed at the College for that party and that walk! So to see Aunt Carmen While I was headed
for Old Town. The evening was splendid, a beautiful autumn afternoon, fresh and bright. The crowd
swarmed on the wide street, doors and windows were curdled of pretty girls, and it meant a
series of festive and happy people, so picturesque and beautiful, you do not ever forget. Some who
were loud and talkative, sometimes returning tired, penitent, carrying the basket of food. Waiters dazzled
by alcohol, who stopped to woo the girls, honest parents who were scrambling to maximum offspring, while
the wife was bringing in arms to rebel brat crybaby. Further, an old man of black coat before
and now litmus de la Vela Perpetua brother, brother of the Third Order of St. Francis, the baker
brand blue shirt, purple sash, white fringe, and hat to the calves,
some ranchers, very smug with Calzonera corduroy hat and braid; a
laundry, a hurricane that made noise with stiff petticoats, a gachupincillos,
vendors clothing or dependent on "El Puerto de Vigo", dupes, newcomers,
rough feet, looking at all with protective breeze, a half dozen villaverdinos
fops, riders on good horses, and at last, alone in the overo finished
shopping, the mayor's son.

That afternoon you can admire the beauty of the cutest girls in Villaverde. Simple dress modestly
beyond the fashions and costumes for Paris modosita, shy, prudish, sad, as if at fifteen began to be old, big
girls, which I thought no illusions no hope, and for whom the world was reduced to quiet hometown.
The most aristocratic, - which Villaverde aristocracy also - moved slowly. Not go to Old Town
or would visit the waterfall, it would be half way into the house
of any friend, there are would seat, and installed in the curb lawn
carpeted with amused passersby.

The carriages went tumbling fatal, and the riders taking sparks the
pavement, the Escarce snails cavalry.

Here and there, a porter, a craftsman or some tacky Pasadita the fort, giving mayatazos.

Not a cloud in the sky. The beautiful blue sky, the sun setting behind the hill the brush,
and magnificent mountains to the northwest, the snowy foot of Citlaltépetl.

I wore entertained with the sight of that merry crowd, when discerned
Castro Pérez.

Came very tired, weary, like a dog panting, leaning on cane gold
cuff, rolled on his shoulders the Spanish cloak, thrown his hat into
the neck cup.

Had gone for a walk through the alleys of Old Town prosopeya their
fluffy.

When he saw me he stopped:

- Friend: are you going to where all is not it? I come half dead!

- Did you get to the waterfall?

- Heaven forbid! I did not pass the door, and I can not with my humanity.

He lies back, and looking over the glasses added:

- Yesterday I wrote
to Lopez .... I will be glad to give you the job.

I like young people like you. We'll see! We'll see if I find in my new clerk what I want and I searched
ever: a young "smart, active and useful ..."

- Tomorrow I will take you there.

- Well! Well! At nine .... At nine o'clock! ... I really like the accuracy.

I was going to follow the conversation, but the lawyer interrupted me abruptly, holding out
Hand said:

- Goodbye! That you have fun!

As soon as I left Castro Pérez, when I heard a noise behind me to
light wagon.

It sounded as other vehicles Villaverde, as rickety old car or diligence. Rang with that white noise,
compact, sumptuous train, we do feature women beautiful and Privanza. I looked and found an
open carriage, new, brand, high-wheeled and light where the sun shone.

They occupied the car a gentleman of noble appearance, gray beard
and a young lady who drew the looks of the crowd for its beauty and
elegance of his suit.

He was wearing dark colored and had his head covered with a lace cap upon which highlighted a
rose Alexandria. Galanos A group of riders stopped to say hello. Was Gabrielita. The car flashed.
I paused for a moment, and continued with a curious look lovely miss,
sometimes dazzled by the reflection of the setting sun that sparkled
in the bright carriage wheels.

XXII

I went punctually to the appointment of counsel. I waited in the corner near the appointed hour,
sound and watch it in the parish I went to the office. The jurist, a great early riser, had
returned from Mass and the customary walk around the mall Santa Catalina, or Forest Pancracio
de la Vega, and very set in his easy chair awaiting the arrival of his new clerk.

- Go ahead, young man - he said aloud .-- Go! Well! Well! I place the accuracy! Take your seat.
I'll tell you what their obligations here. There is much work here, but it is good to know you,
my friend, not here wasting time!

- You can order what you like ...-- said, sitting in a chair in the
eye of partridge, very old and wavering.

- Will you come at eight
o'clock, sharp, as now.

At eight ... You know what I mean? In point! Will you at one, time
to go eat. In the afternoon, at three o'clock.

In point three! We will work till five. At that time you can withdraw. When we have something extraordinary
work to complete. But this only happens from time to time. Do you agree? Yes? Well, stay fixed! If
you go to get closed dispatch signal is still not back or I'm taking
a nap.

Then you ask the keys to the girls, and opens you.

Now, at another point. Do not want to reward work you and others, in a way eventually, to fall.
So it was with others, but with you is another thing. I consider him to you and your family, and I
am pleased to protect youth and future ready, so I decided to bring to you a fixed salary. So no you
will be exposed to harmful contingencies to their interests.

He paused, looked at me up and down, adding:

- Will you fifteen dollars a month. I think that to begin is an amount ... Very decent! ...

It was a misery, no doubt, but given my circumstances, I found that
the award amount fat.

In more polite terms replied that he appreciated the favor, and would try to match to trust that
I dispensed.

Pérez Castro interrupted me

- Boy: I promise to find in you what I have so desired, which until
now could not get: a scribe active, intelligent and useful.

Do not waste your time. In this room find you need to write. We will send, before beginning to reach
customers. You'll see. This is outrageous! Not stop all day. This looks like a Jubilee.

He got up and went to the next room.

- Take your seat. In fascist! I will dictate a letter.

I put in "fascist."

Pérez Castro pulled his green velvet cap embroidered with gold, so of fez, with a large tassel
hanging back and swung like a pendulum. My man consisted glasses, and his hands behind, hidden
under the skirts of his greasy coat, began to walk, while I, with
paper and ready before the boom, I was about to write.

After long silence, during which the jurist picked up his ideas, and
coughed and blew with the huge bandanna, spoke in very emphatic tone:

-
City Judge .... Two points!

And going and coming, Castro Perez gave lengthy argument, style heavy, diffuse, truly tiring, paved
with Latin phrases and quotes from the games, (my man he knew them by heart) and full of a thousand
beauties and wonders of legal jargon.

Pérez Castro boasted of being a "dictator" of first force, as Caesar, Elizabeth, Napoleon and
the Archbishop Munguia. It is true that dictated smoothly and without hesitation, without was
necessary to repeat the previous sentence, but he echoed the clerk, whispering hissed the last syllable
of the final word, but what went well. Sorry for all unhappy heart to judge who would have to
take to the doublet the indigestible hodgepodge, and I feared boredom that judgments against
those sponsored by Castro Perez.

I read aloud the allegation. My man was satisfied.

- Well! Well, "- said .-- Many logic!

See these Latins.

Do not put them beyond reproach. Then I did observe very carefully, that he had escaped a Galician
agreement, one of those matches for which we so often punished Don
Roman.

- No, young man, - said Castro Pérez upset - that's right!

In that amendment, that no me the flat, my friend. That's right! So it should be! Remind yourself
that the Nebrija Reglita ....

And not said.

My man went on:

- Friend: You know that stuff that I do not fear anyone, not even
his teacher López you it's worth, it is true that the picky grammar!

Scholars had long controversy him and me. Wrote more than Tan. Roman said he should say "villaverdino
', I, who we say 'vilarverdino. " The victory was for me.

Indeed, in Villaverde all said and wrote "villaverdino" until, at the wrong time, occurred to
a journalist question the successful formation of the buzzword.

It ruffled roost: left to contest the "pomposísimo ', came to the fore Castro Pérez, Charles the
teachers to the taste, the thing came to City Hall, and aldermen were subject to several sessions.
Villaverde was divided into two camps, "villaverdinos" one, "vilaverdino"
the other, and armed of God is Christ.

The schoolmaster and the lawyer said a thousand dirty tricks, the reporter went hut, and the Buddhist
city was long entertained by the controversy.

Finally, the State Government put an end to disputes. Issued a circular that fell as a pump
in Villaverde. With this circular the Executive endorsed the opinion of Castro Perez.

Since then, my beloved hometown everyone says and writes "vilaverdino" less Romao not give up.

Lawyer
signed his plea, he took off his embroidered fez, took his hat and
cane, and went to the street.

I just left the lawyer came to examine the office. It was the typical
office provincial law.

Two pieces. In one, which was intended to scribe, some shelves with papers and files dusty, moth-eaten,
pamphlets and newspapers in bundles tied with string Campeche, a
secular table covered with green cloth folder, inky, big inkwell lead,
a marmajera of the same metal cabinet two feathers worthy of an archaeologist,
and a black cashmere scrap to clean the feathers, coming undoubtedly
some pants old lawyer.

Opposite the table, a bench and three rickety chairs convent for customers waiting audience.
The whitewashed walls, floor brick dirty. What need were there a spittoons!

Looked better Pérez Castro's cabinet. Walls, floor and ceiling equal to those of another piece.
Neat, as was possible, given the negligence of its owner, the cabinet may deserve my attention.

Was
cold, cold polar feel they lose a lawsuit, and ruined, and stay to ask for bread because of
an employer ignorant, stupid or slothful.

Furniture: two shelves of cedar, with chicken wire, filled with old books, folios monumental
aged scrolls that nobody played, none of whom put in hand, and that
would be made dust.

And that, he told me one day Castro Pérez, worth much, much, much!

- No, young man - the lawyer repeated stroking the abdomen .-- In these books there is science.
All that now deprives you find it there.

In those tomes that you see there, so neglected by scholars to violet, is where today's scholars
drink whatever is good in brand new theories, which is low. And then we present their latest,
most pompous and paid self! This is very hair that said a famous musician an innovator. In
all these wisdoms Today's lawyers need not new, neither good .... But ... Neither good is new,
or New is good!

Yes, young man should not be taken as a joke or with the things my conceit old: in those heavy
volumes is science, true science.

Almost in the center of the cabinet, a table, a large table covered
with green baize, which fell to near the ground, revealing the feet
of furniture, a lion's claws or tap water spherules paths that they
stuck in the burgeoning nails, as wretched famished hawk prey.

Loaded with bundles and tomes, that table did not feature in the wide open space surface. Lavish
detail of that mountain of papers, valuable silver inkstand, (no use, because Castro Perez served
as a lead) a true colonial inkwell of Judge Rich, next canon or a bishop, with a bell that served
as a lid.

In between that range of forgotten records, of which up to its owners had long forgotten, and there
by clusters of illustrious Papiniano stubborn procrastination villaverdino,
from among that heap of paper yellowing and dusty rose a crucifix
a Christ-size, made in Guatemala, in the words of Don Juan.

The divine image, fixed in tree with four silver brads, I felt like,
in that place, appropriate sign of resignation.

Factions haggard, pale face, bruised temples, sharp nose, dull eyes, lips parted in agony,
it seemed that way to the tomes cast into oblivion, painful look
strangely compassionate mercy.

The only modern furniture that was there was a mahogany armchair,
a gift from a client grateful. It sprawling legal expert with the
severity of the bishop in pontifical mass.

Near the window, on a
pale carpet, two "butaque" medellineros, leather resobado and glossy,
and a great armchair, incomparable to nap. The curtains of the window,
at one time white, were now wet ash color, and its folds were visible
ravages of the moth.

Fronting the window, on a table between two
porcelain vases, a clock crystal a lyre, with the gold and copper
sphere of blue glazed figures, under whose broken beacon parties were
caught with paper wool. The way to remember the hobbies that clock
poetic legal expert. Standing, always silent, always pointing the
same time, it seemed scary as eternity.

Between a shelf and the wall
was another clock weights, in long, narrow box ebony always walk,
always fixed. Before a low growl of his bowels of copper, let go a
hundred bells chiming in high-pitched, dissonant, and then with profound
gravity given time: ton! Ton! Ton! ...

For me, seeing those clocks
would say, one for customers, the weight, the other is the glass for
sir.

On the right, next to the window, a painting attributed to Cabrera:
San Juan Nepomuceno, clothing Angelopolitana as a canon, presenting,
gripped with the thumb and forefinger of his right hand a little thing,
red as strawberry summer bloody tongue, acabadita cutting. The face
martyr's causing me laugh, it was a silly face, pale and smiling,
no majesty, no nobility, without the words corresponding to August
this illustrious saint.

On the left, in a gilt frame, under glass
and bordered with gold-green on a black background a portrait of Don
Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna, in full uniform, neck cross Guadalupe.

One
well was in my house. The good of my Aunt Pepa relegated him to fourth
in the bathroom.

- There is good! - Say, when did you notice the
desecration .-- There, there is good! In this damn old we all our
misfortunes!

At about ten customers began arriving