 The reasons that the eminent lady had to think
that crime will not be as powerful as the baritone in the eyes of a man; but surely I look like
any woman. Sarrió Lighthouse, eager to bite at all Cabin partners, relatives and friends had
taken for three or four months, with the wife of Marin. Surfaced all domestic secrets; life marriage,
dependency and degradation of Marin were put into a caricature. It had this purpose, in print,
all more or less humorous anecdotes running through the town, and some more discovered or invented
by the thugs editors. And To make matters worse, there was number of that newspaper which in
one way or another fails to take Wig mention of Mrs. Bridget, that that fact had become popular
Sarrio. Irritation, anger, hatred and desire for revenge that had awakened in this lady, nobody
can bear. Suffice it to say that when he saw any editor El Faro in the street, paled horribly
could scarcely prevent him throw the neck, like a rabid cat. Until then had been unable to
satisfy that craving devoured her revenge. So now, looking at Gonzalo, was lapped with joy, shiver
of longing, like a tiger prey currency. Taking advantage of a moment nobody spoke with him, went to
him very quietly and behind. And suddenly getting ahead, spit but he said these words:

- Gonzalo, how you're so colt? You're still the fun and laughter around the world. No one person
in the dance does not know that your wife is sleeping at this hour with the Duke Lathe.

The young man was as if he had been with a mallet on the forehead. Got thick white. He tried
to grab the infamous mask to tear the mask, but it was not possible. Dona Bridget had slipped away
like an eel through the crowd.

As there were many ladies in the same outfit, impossible to know who he was. Then he hurried
out of the room. The those words sounded in his head as fierce hammer. He feared falling. In
answered the threshold stupid smile Amicale phrases addressed to him. His uncle don Melchor,
seeing him so pale, came to him:

- What are you, Gonzalillo: Do ??you feel bad?

- Yes ... I'll take a cup of tea.

- I'll walk.

- No, no, come back soon.

And ran, and left him standing near the door.

Down the stairs. Was found in the street without realizing what he did. Cold air of the night
cooled the head and called him back in their agreement. Suddenly he resolved leaving for Tejada.
Looked around the car and saw him no. Ramon was undoubtedly home yet. He checked his watch. There
were only two and a half.

He went a long way towards the house his father-in Rua Nueva, but
when he had taken a few steps, he said he was hatless and tails.

He returned to the Lyceum.

The first servant with whom he stumbled on the stairs, he asked he
came down his hat and coat.

When he got home, and Ramon was hooked.

- Ramon, you're going to
take now to Tejada at full speed.

The driver looked at him with surprise.

- Is Miss has gotten worse?

- I think so - said getting into the car before arriving .-- For ... in revolt the mill, right?

-
Miss scare fear, right? - Asked the driver with great penetration.

No answer.

The horses started to leak, causing the car to dance above the pavement
sharply uneven villa.

Gonzalo said not even the movement that shook him rudely viscera, and traffic on the road to
stop the population. All his attention was fixed, concentrated at
one point.

Could it be true or not? Unfortunately, not knowing himself by what, the belief that his wife was
cheating, he entered into his soul and that ruled it.

When Tejada had come to walk, for two short months, this conviction did not want enter. As much
as I did to convince the newspaper's accusation was true, his heart mind and refused to give consent.
Now the opposite happened. It was endless Exploring the prosecution persuade the hooded was
just vile expression of envy and spite in a hidden enemy, and although they could not help
but give her faith.

When the car stopped, did not realize the weather was walking, the same could be one day than
a minute. He left his dream and jumped from the carriage to the ground.

- Now turn around by the family - Ramon told - and do not say you have brought me. No need to scare.

He
walked slowly towards the gate of the park, which was about two hundred yards, while the car away
in the opposite direction. When he arrived, he touched with a trembling hand. Was open as before.
He felt a strange chill in the heart that made him stop. Entered so with caution, and wanted
to see if the key was inside to close, but not found. The night was not clear or dark, the sky
canopy. Menudísima water rained a very common in the country, which permeates the clothes
out as the fat, and even better. Made no sound falling on the trees and plants in the park, but
those, soaked and, when wounded by a gust of wind, leaving many drops
away, a real shower, which sounded on roads with mild and transient
ringing.

Gonzalo was agreed that he did not bring any weapons. But shrugged his shoulders with disdain, with
a confidence absolutely the case that if he was not going to lack. Looked around to see if he
discovered Duke's horse and did not see it. What I noticed was the shadow of a man slipping
to through the trees. She ran to her, but vanished instantly. Figúresele that Pachín was the servant,
and he fell into the suspicion that he was the traitor who opened
the door the Duke.

After that night they found his sister with him, had spent to find
out who it was that kept him safe indoors, accomplishing nothing.

In the less I could suspect was a servant as old as Pachín.

Then thought I could go to warn the traitors, and took over the direction
of Home to the race to win the hand.

Rose again from the vine to the room of his father.

This time, the balcony was received anything more.

Toes, but quickly, he went to the cabinet prey by an automatic movement,
as if, having found there to the Duke once was it was always necessary.

Great was his surprise to find it deserted and dark.

It was a moment rooted to the ground. But suddenly moved by an idea, ran to the master bedroom,
Ventura where he slept.

He found him locked inside.

Beckoned.

- Ventura, Ventura.

- Who's there? - His wife screamed in a voice strange, indefinable.

- It's me ... opens, it opens soon.

- I'm in bed.

- Never mind, opens soon.

- Let me get dressed.

- No, at once or break open the door.

- I, I go there.

So he waited a moment. Instead of the door, thought he heard that
opened the balcony room.

- Open, Ventura! - Shouted in fury.

And getting no answer, took a knock at the door with his powerful leg of Cyclops, and latch popped
loudly. The room was in darkness.

- Ventura, Ventura! - Screamed.

Nobody answered. He took a match with a trembling hand, and cast a crazy look around the room.
His wife was in his shirt tucked in a corner, pale and haggard. Gonzalo did not stop eyes on
her. He looked everywhere for something, and, perceiving the balcony ajar lunged at him. Opened.
Running through the trees he saw something white, the figure of a man in shirt sleeves. Not picked
up. He jumped from the chair into the garden and ran towards him as a arrow. But the man and
came to the iron door, opened it, disappeared.

Gonzalo followed soon after, but take a look around, saw him in the shadows, on horseback, jumping
into the race towards Nieva. He understood immediately that it was useless to pursue him. Encouraged,
however, a crazy hope, running back to the stables, took out her
beautiful saddle horse, and putting a brake, jumped on him bareback,
and also launched to escape Nieva the road.

He wore no spurs nor whip, but he obeyed his animal bravo voice,
or rather, its roar, and took a very violent escape.

The horse's eyes were the road. The front of him not receiving more
than a big black hole where I was going to sink.

The tall poplar trees that fringed the road, beside swift passing as black ghosts.

- Up, up, up!

The noble animal flying as drove the spur. So he ran for half an hour.

- It's impossible - he said .-- Your horse is even better than mine, and I had a front two
gun shots at least.

But when he was making this reflection, and hesitated to pull the
brake on the horse, passed through front of another, who was on one
side of the road, saddled riderless.

Stood firm to yours to work. Turned around to see what it was. Immediately recognized the pony
English Duke.

- Oh - roared - and you are mine!

Because then figured he had fallen.

Dismounted and recognized in the field, but it did not with the rider. Lit matches, and nothing,
found no trace of the Duke .-- "You may hear galloping my horse, and fearing that he reached,
has hidden around here "- is said. He jumped into the meadows, all scrupulously acknowledged
he could in light of the matches around and looked behind the bushes, peered into the undergrowth,
followed by a long way the bank of a stream that had left. But he ran out the match box before
he could faced its enemy. He turned desperate, bellowing with rage.

If indeed the Duke of lathes was around hidden, which must have good time past! He left the room
in search of a servant. Just came Pachín, with a light on hand with the broken face.

- The Master is running behind Mr. Duke in the garden - he said, his voice barely audible.

- Did you achieve? - Unfaithful wife asked, very pale, but quite the shock and response.

- Not really. Mr. Duke has the horses tied to the winery Anton. Front leads to to mount, and then
impossible to follow.

- Where do I hide me? If you re killing me.

- It is best to leave the house, Miss ... Come with me.

The young man followed him through the halls.

They descended the stairs, and out through the kitchen door. Pachín wanted to take the vicarage,
which was not far possession. When they left the garden, they saw Gonzalo running toward the house.
They only had the time needed to hide behind the Washingtonia near
the dining room.

From there they saw him enter the block, and go get the horse to
escape.

Ventura believed die of fright.

- No, no, I do not want to go home the cure. You can come back, and the priest can not defend
it ... It is an old man ... I want to go to Sarria.

- But, Miss, to Sarrió at this time and it was raining?

- Is not there a coach?

- There is a saloon, but lacks the horses ... You wait a bit, I put
the rods, and fasten the pony of Master Paul ... No answer for that
pull.

- Hurry, hurry!

At best he could, Pachín did what he said. Ventura got into the car and left. Though initially rebelled
a little pony, fantastic and on the road, with fondness Sarrió the block from where he was
generally went quite well.

The girl ordered raised to take her to Don Rudesindo, with whose lady remained fairly relationship.
Took refuge there, and was until his father, two or three days after
the event, took Madrid.

From there to Ocaña, one of which locked her convents, and remember
him by Gonzalo.

The great patrician had no great attachment, as we know, the positive religions, but "while
society did not have other means of coercion for the moral transgressions,
was forced to demand they go to the old social institutions were even
so flawed and weak as they.

"

Now back to Gonzalo. He spent all day locked in Tejada, in a state of agitation next to dementia.
The only person who dared to enter his room was Don Rosendo.

Although adorned with paraphrases and redundancies journalistic temperament credited writer,
learned to speak a language dignified and generous.

He would unconditionally from him, and cursed his daughter "whose
conduct unspeakable, bit (lately had taken him many fans Rosendo scuttle
the verb), while morality, law and social practices put it beyond
any legal protection and family.

" He proposed temporarily enclose in a convent. Gonzalo poor, depressed,
agitated, did not answer a word.

Escuchábale pacing the room diagonally, hands in his pockets, his eyes wet and left. Just head up
to say firmly:

- Take her with you wherever ... But you do not see my daughters! I do not want their lips touch.

At dusk a servant came to tell him that two men who had come on a reel, urgently wanted to speak.
Then the thought crossed him what that meant, and was quick to answer:

- To enter.

Nieva came two gentlemen. One was the Marquis de Soldat, middle-aged man, completely shaved, erysipelas
color and yellow teeth, who spoke very high to appear folksy, the
other a retired colonel, called Galarza, old, gray, and man of few
words and friends.

They came from the Duke to fix a serious issue, which had occurred last night, in the field of
honor. Lathe Duke would not let the lord of the Cuevas without compensation
owed him.

Escape on that occasion was not in their customs and character, and was worthy of their social
hierarchy. But at the same time, in the interest of Gonzalo and himself, demanded that all be carried
out with the greatest possible secrecy.

Gonzalo let her talk to the Marquis, which was neat to impertinence, without blinking, affecting
a peace that he felt.

- Okay - said when he finished .-- I accept, of course, the challenge.

I am ready to do As and when you like ... Is a bit unusual - he said,
after all, with giggling, ill-disguised anger that he commanded .--
A little that is original is Mr. Duke who challenges, I was the victim.

That act, in truth, rather than chivalry seems inspired fear.

- Lord
of Caves - angrily interrupted the former colonel - we can not allow
that in our presence you allow those findings.

Gonzalo distracted looked at him as if he had not heard, and continued:

-
Actually, I could and even should reject this challenge because it
is not customary for decent men will clap with the rogues, but they
bear a title of the kingdom.

- Lord of Caves - by mounting Galarza
uttered in anger - this is unbearable.

I do not tolerate that you talk that way.

- The Duke of lathes is a ganuja, you know - said fixed and staring
provocatively eyes.

The truth is that it would have been great temerity to mess with Gonzalo
at that moment.

Galarza turned pale, and he said, rising:

- Are you at home. I withdraw.
- Do you want to tell you to go out? - Impetuously exclaimed, rising
too.

- Gentlemen - hoarse voice cried the marquis, - a bit of peace.
Galarza, you have no right irritated. The kind of offense that we
sponsored has made the gentleman (and I am sorry to refer to it),
I apologize for overstepping the appreciation of his character. I
think when accepting the duel, and attenuates quite all sense of his
words, daughters of the natural irritation that is ...

Gonzalo was
by dropping the table before him, the fool conciliator. Remained still
and silent, however, because he wanted to be fiery and face to face
with Duke. The former colonel sat down to entreaties of his companion.
For fear of his temper irritable or revenge, no further word.

Gonzalo
said he would appoint two friends to understand them, which would
the next day morning at Nieva. Therefore could become this course
people, unless that might make him the honor of being guests that
night ...

Friends of Duke thanked: be prepared to leave. When they
were standing Gonzalo said, addressing, of course, but the Marquis.

-
I wish both of you hold conferences on the occasion of this launch,
as the set it was made in snow ... Because - he added with emphasis,
half sarcastic, half tenderly, - for more than you would seem strange
in this house there are still people who love me.

The sponsors promised
to please him, and withdrew turning over Nieva.

Cecilia from the
saw and began to haunt his brother's room, not daring to enter. East
to go in search of Pablito, it stumbled in the hallway, which was
half in darkness. The young man suddenly grabbed her hand, squeezed
it hard, and sticking a longing look, said

- Do not gowns, Gonzalo.

The
forces had to hide, crying with contempt:

- I had to beat me with
that bastard! Never! ... I will kill you where you are ...

He believed
in his words, but returned to tell an agitated voice:

- Do it for
your innocent daughters.

- For my daughters ... and for you - said
affectionately stroking his face with his hand. And he hastened away,
because emotion choked him.

When she found Paul she said quietly:

-
You I can speak frankly. You are a man and you know that there are
things in life inevitable. Just left the sponsors of the Duke, and
I just fool promising Cecilia do not beat me. As you understand, that's
impossible ...

- Why? ... No: you should not beat you ... I am, I
who has to kill that miserable! - Said the beautiful young man passionately.

-
Thanks, Paul, thanks - seriously Gonzalo replied shakily, squeezing
hand with effusion .-- That can not be