 

  These were my words, is my conclusion whenever necessary returning
  from the field.

  
  The idea of ??visiting new countries, is constantly present my
  imagination with a delightful mystery that fascinated me. The
  language, dress, customs, life analyzed whole and in detail,
  fingíala in my desire, as distinct and new, in comparison with the
one I knew.

  
  
  Later, when I glimpsed the utility of travel by instruction
  and knowledge of the World reported, took letter nature within my
brain - so to speak - the idea travel.

  
  
  Today, fortunately I have visited some countries, giving satisfaction
  to my aspirations fulfilled, right and up need is concrete in a single
box of my memories excursions.

  
  
  Do not pretend to write a book: if the phrase was not worn, I call
  this epitome impressions of travel, but many are and so have named
  to his notes, that I turn away such haste to finish this bad
  diction and hilbanado foreword by asking the reader to rate this
work as more picture to his liking.

  
  
  Either way, this publication is not nothing but a natural picture
gallery taken at the sight: the colors employment, taken from my poor
palette, are weak but accurate.

  
  
  And just for a preface: it was necessary to state that this
  book is not the son of fashion: if I'm correct, I pointed and, if
not well understood, unless it be known I intended to say.

  

  
  # SPAIN #.
  
  Spain, our beloved country, so maligned by some Foreigners who
  have wanted to judge trivial light without study in any way its current
state, is advancing rapidly the path of progress, and within a few
years will take the significant range in fact belongs in Europe.

  
  
  Any other nation in the world that have had to go by the trials
  as ours, with its riots policy so frequently, with their useless
  government, with its and devastating fratricidal civil war seven
  years, had been erased from the maps and any other cast his broken
  nationality. Our beloved country, notwithstanding all that has
  kept intact until today its independence holy, living own life,
  working and moving and touching and benefits of a great future,
  has proved to the world with this demo of strong vitality
  of its own, which is sufficient to itself and deserves a great
  post at the congress of the peoples civilized. Both high and feelings
  that live in Augustan his heart and led to safety by
  amid storms and dangers, are the religious sentiment and
  National: here we love God and to his country, and these
  two powerful virtues that we have for ages, we keep with religious
  accuracy and transmitted to our insurance come, are two powerful
  levers of the future and strength.

  
  Our municipal legislation, the richest, the freest, the most
  oldest in Europe, has given us an education intrinsically democratic,
  it has engendered in our souls the innate love to liberty. In
  vain we speak of the Austrian dynasty Spain has ruled our the forms
  of absolutism Castilla our illustrious commoners, fighting
  world's first battle against the tyranny of Reyes, are a proud
  and haughty protest that our character wrote in the fields against
  all despotic. Our customs, almost free, not imported from
  anywhere, are the most democratic in Europe, and in saying this,
  or talk memory or advance a claim dubious.
  

  In our lives of travelers and we have had occasion diplomat to look
  closely and carefully the habits of European societies: nowhere
  and we never found equal admirable practice of our Spain, where
  in fact no classes are: here, among us, the same today as in times
  absolutism, all races and dignities of the state have been accessible
  to the people, the ministers have left their ranks, generals, bishops,
  statesmen, everything today, as always, open to all classes of
  Spanish society careers all: in fact we have no aristocracy, the
  clergy, the people, nobility, the middle class, mixed and confused
  in their meetings, in their blogs, in all acts of public life and
  private. As our education has been eminently democratic,
  our customs are also, of which has spontaneously sprung to love
  the feeling of freedom we have, and loving God, to liberty
  and their country, the philosopher and statesman may rejoice and
  be quiet; we can not die and the future is ours.
  
  So much for the moral Spain: now we shall see, although slightly,
  the Spain that foreigners have described, Spain of difficult communications
and material backwardness.

  
  
  Madrid, which now begins to be known throughout Europe, is a big business
that lacks nothing: sky splendid society fine and easy, strong and
fruitful literary life, eleven theaters public, where they have their
temple all genres comedy, music and drama artists, writers, philosophers,
academies, museums, railroads to different cities important literary
resource abundance, walks admirable, monuments, streets and squares
as the first European capitals, different rail lines started it give
a great importance within four to five years all will be completed,
immense journalistic movement, animation, features, greatness.

  This is the Madrid of today: wait five years and be visited by
  all travelers from Europe, insurance will find it one of the
  most beautiful cities of today: has a population of 300.000 inhabitants.

Barcelona,
  ??Spain's second capital, with four paths iron, open to
  the public for years, with an industrial life amazing, with its
  many factories as the industry known [1], with its important
  port where all the days play Vapors from all countries,
  with its three public theaters, two Italian opera, with its two
  hundred thirty thousand, with its magnificent squares and streets,
  its monuments, prodigious animation, its constant activity, with
  its good hotels, promenades, its growing prosperity, Barcelona,
  conclude, is a city of high significance and importance of any other
  city in Europe as she did not nation is capital.
  
  Valencia, picturesque and lively city with a population industrious
and hardworking, with its silk industry as advanced busy seaport,
a lot of trade, to railroads Grao Játiva and two public theaters,
many notable churches under the guise of art, the countryside more
delicious can imagine, all admirably grown inch by inch, a museum,
casinos, their newspapers, beautiful women, their delightful climate,
blue sky, his usual animation, and population of one hundred and five
thousand inhabitants.

  
  
  Its main buildings are the cathedral, the consulate, Temple, General
  Hospital, Customs, the Archbishop's Palace and several others.
  Is very popular literary college, free schools, and almshouses
  in brilliant condition.
  
  Among the penal stands out the prison, which is a true role model
  and deserves to be visited by foreigners. Valencia within
  one year will be linked to Madrid, Alicante, Almansa and
  Albacete through a railroad.
  

  Sevilla, with its Guadalquivir at the feet, with his famous
  cathedral, town hall, the audience, the market, and many other
  notable buildings, Sevilla is also one of the most commercial
  cities of Spain, large-scale commercial and has a population of
  one hundred and thirty thousand souls. Their culture is
  superior to all praise, for even in the ranks of people observe
  good manners and finesse.
  
  Seville has excellent papers on literature, academia, and gifted artists.

  His heaven, its climate, women are renowned throughout Europe:
  the delicious fruits of its countryside are the best in its class:
  it works well underway its trains to Cordoba and Cadiz.
  

  Zaragoza's immortal, the home of the brave sons, is also other important
  city in Spain that I visited three times. The railroad that will
  contact Madrid and Barcelona, ??before four years will be
  open to public, since both lines are working without rest, augment
much their present significance and will breathe new life and momentum.

Zaragoza

  has magnificent churches that draw the attention of traveler
  and deserve to be, as Seo and Our Lady del Pilar.
  
  Its most notable buildings are the Market and palaces Archbishop
  and General. From the streets comes first of the Coso, wide, straight,
  clear, there are good walks around the city. Agriculture is the
  main wealth of the capital of Aragon, also has its newspapers and
theaters: the population is fifty thousand souls.

  The people is predominantly liberal, noble, courageous, brave and
  generous.
  
  Cadiz and Malaga, two cities in our Spain I visited, are distinguished
  first by its charming situation, by its whiteness and excessive cleaning
by advanced civilization.

  
  
  It's great literary life in Cadiz, which publishes well written
  papers and books have flourishing academies DASE religious dedication
  to the arts: his company is one of the most Spain learned and fine.

Their
  wives, powerfully beautiful, is one of the best ornaments
  of society.

  Cadiz has three public theaters, streets and elegant squares,
  and general appearance of the city is as pleasant and picturesque
  that can be devised.

  
  
  Railroads is in operation to Jerez and the Port, and construction
  Seville.
  
  Malaga, industrial, seaport, factories, foundry, fabrics, yarn,
  good rides, some notable buildings: its famous wines.

  
  I speak in my book only cities I've seen, the traveler
  is still some other worth visiting: Granada, Cordoba, Toledo,
  Santiago, Leon, Salamanca.

  
  
  Continuing our quick review of Spain, let us enter some simple
  notes on some other cities we also know.

  
  
  Palencia, located eight miles from Valladolid and forty of capital
  of Spain, is a city that, while the third order, has a magnificent
cathedral, the palace of Don Sancho and Bishop, an elegant theater,
casino, and some good roads: the the wealth is agriculture.

  
  

  Has flour mills. The first university in Palencia was founded
  in Spain: the tendency to channel its doors Castilla which puts
  in communication with Alar and Valladolid, and now works with faith
in the way of iron.

  
  
  Valladolid, home of Felipe II, is without dispute the first city ??of
the chivalrous and noble Castilla.

  University has busy literary, regional court, is capital
  one of the military districts of the Peninsula farming town and
  industrial.

  
  Its main buildings are the cathedral, magnificent Herrera large,
  which is not completed, the university forms elegant and architectural
  taste, the famous church of San Paul, with the prettiest frames,
  its architecture and slender luxury of ornaments, the arches of Benavente,
the Royal Palace and some others.

  
  
  Valladolid has many good roads, some runs to line; rides excellent,
  as the Campo Grande and Mulberry, public libraries, theaters, literary
societies.

  Today is becoming a major industrial center, many flour mills,
  other cotton fabrics, earthenware, yarn, cast iron. Has thirty
  thousand inhabitants, channel navigable Rioseco and Alar, and
  works well advanced the railway.
  

  Burgos, a city of memories and monuments, also deserves traveler's
  check. His renowned cathedral, one of the most beautiful in Europe,
  is majestic, graceful, elegant, adorned with its architects Gothic
  cloak the hearing, presents the viewer with all the interest
  of a monument art.
  

  The strikes, a famous monastery, founded by Alfonso VIII, also
  called the attention of traveling to study. The Carthusian
  church of the tomb contains a superb set Don Juan II, worth seeing:
  a work of art is admirable, Cast from Carrara marble, with rich
  pageantry of reliefs and statuary luxury.
  
  Burgos has little relevance today, the weather is extremely cold
  and very few resources: a visit to taste their buildings remarkable
and his walks, but otherwise nothing has the traveler.

  
  
  Santander, a town also belonging to Castilla la Vieja, is an active
  center of our trade, has a vibrant life lively and has great
  resources and elements of prosperity. Busy seaport, and general
  warehouse Castilla all meals, maintains active relations trade with
the Americas, and especially with our West Indies.

  
  
  Its dock is one of the most beautiful in Spain, a long magnificent
  houses elegant canvas is his face principal. When completed the
  port works, and is open to the public railway to Alar, one of
  whose sections already in operation, greatly augment Santander importance
and significance it has today.

  
  
  Cuéntanse in the city some good buildings, the streets
  general are straight and clear: there is a nice theater and for casinos.

Vitoria,

  San Sebastian and Irun, are the three populations significance found
  on the road to Madrid to Bayonne. We know that our Basque provinces
  are a model industry and culture: there the earth does
  not remain idle, as Aragon, which can only be visited for the honor
  of penetrate within the walls of the immortal Zaragoza.
  

  The Basque provinces, as I indicated, have the privilege
  of powerfully attracting the attention of anyone who the
  visit. Its inhabitants, as well as the Aragonese, reflect
  in their expressive faces honesty and frankness.
  
  The whole country is carefully cultivated: the peaks mountain vines
planted by the Basque laborious hand.

  Cuéntanse countless highways, wide, comfortable and well built.
  The simple organization of its tutelary governments province,
  promotes the development of good faith to all distinguished, and
the bonds of family, saints everywhere are there sacred: hence the
goodness of people, because known is that the domestic hearth is all,
if this is good, society, which is reflected, can not but be too.

  
  
  Vitoria, San Sebastian and Irun, three beautiful cities, neat great,
  notable for its animation and rich, abundant foundries and the work
  is heard in all parties. Vitoria and San Sebastian have good
  seats and buildings: Irun has a nice house villa.

  Irun to the French border I just have to note that a holy
  emotion I was touched. At the solemn moment of crossing the bridge
  Vidasoa, deeply touched my heart, sent from the end of the bridge
  a greeting of blessing and love to my family and to my country.

  My beloved Spain, represented in Irun, still ate it with my eyes,
  I attracted him towards each other, and I moved twice in
  a row to the middle of bridge to send my best wishes for
  its enlargement and prosperity.
 