 From
there they went to grazing nearby town, and won it as easily, and treated with the same rigor.
It seemed to our Captains hold these positions, because people would growing, and it was close
enough to divide and to Constantinople, whose ruin and ruin was the last weekend of their
dangers and hardships. A montaner left at Gallipoli alone with Some sailors, with Almugavares,
and thirty horses.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

Fernan Jimenez de Arenós arrives at Gallipoli, go to run the earth and defeat retiring two
thousand foot, and eight horses of the enemy.

Fernan Jimenez Arenas, one of the most key that came with Aragoneses Captains Roger in Greece for
some trouble, as noted above, he left our company. With the few that followed it was the Duke
of Athens, where he stopped serving some time in the wars that the Duke had with its neighbors,
that were many and various, accidents forced experienced by small states whose princes powerful
neighbors. In all Fernan Jimenez won reputation and held honorable place, but the danger of his
friends in his mind could therefore left their accretions sure and certain, for relief to him.
Taking leave of the Duke, with a galley, and in her old eighty soldiers, arrived at Gallipoli.
Received was all fine examples of gratitude. They gave many horses and weapons to put its people
in order, and some friends who wanted to keep three hundred gathered infants, and sixty horses,
and with them went inland. Having seen with the Captains who were in Rodesto, and space, and
communicated with them his resolution, he walked with the people around Constantinople and crossed
the river, which the ancients called Batini, looted and burned many villages in sight of the
city. Andronico looked like the walls were on fire houses, and believing that all our camp was
before him, refused to come out people before put into care and safety of Constantinople, divided
by walls waiting that our swords were to use that day in his final ruin these suspicions were Andronico's
well-founded and advised, for the people full of fear, accustomed to leisure, not trying to take
up arms to defend itself. The mercenary warriors Turcopoles, and Alan, either by nature or
benefit required by the service of his prince, refused and feared the dangers, over suspicions
of the deal they had with our captains. Among these fears and suspicions he was involved Andronico,
when he learned that Fernan Jimenez Arenós with only three hundred was the author of so much
damage, and that Rocafort with the main army Rodope walked beside. Andronico thinning of hundred
cavalry, and two thousand foot, ordered them out or upload to Fernan Jimenez retired with rich
prey. Left with good spirit and resolution, and from the river that night, occupying a vantage
position, step Forced to ours, were placed in ambush. Descubrieronla then brokers Fernando
Jiménez, and the withdrawal could not be on the other hand, halted, he said to his disciples:
You see friends that the enemy has closed the passage, and that can only pave our value. What
in this is concerned, is nothing less than our life in the ultimate danger. The opposite before
us are the same that have overcome so many times with greater inequality. Their crowd has always served
only to increase our victories, so sure we have it this as in other cases they are resolved,
as we see, wait and fight. The advantaged position gives them confidence, forgetting that our
swords penetrate defenses and objections impregnable. I know these people mean that wherever they
have to meet the rigor of our just revenge. Said this was close its almugavares infantry, and
with few horses envistió troops of enemy cavalry. Peleóse bravely, but the two thousand foot Greek
Almugavares undertaken by the three hundred, were nearly all slaughtered so quickly, which took
place between Fernan succor that was traveling with the cavalry fighting, and your help was
so important, then left the enemy free passage to loss of 690 Horses killed and prisoners.
Victorious and full of debris came forward and passed to grazing, where Rocafort had arrived
shortly before running for Rodope.

CHAPTER XL.

Fernan Jimenez wins Modico Castillo and place.

It seemed to Fernan Jimenez to ensure their stuff, mind taking a square where could have headquarters
from which he had Rocafort, because his condition did not lead to that could live together. The nobility
of blood and its treatment Fernan took after them many of those still to Rocafort, but fearing
his anger as the most powerful, dared not bare leave without being sure of a plaza. Modico neighbor
instead of the enemy but, since to the Strait, at noon in Gallipoli, was what appeared to try
to win by surprise, and since I did well, stuck near the fortified place, and opened their
trenches. Fernan resolution condemning the military art well understood because with 200 infants,
and that alone had eighty horses, could not undertake such a difficult thing as it was to
win a people, having within seven hundred men to take arms, but vileness of their hearts, and
steadfastness of our people, made the impossible easy. When a nation lacks the industry and the
value, necessarily has to make good the enemy events the desires to hold, because neither the
number of people, nor the defense of the walls, serves of repair. The Greeks miserable these people
with be 700, and our only three hundred, were enclosed within its walls as if the whole field
of the Catalans are site without out to fight or to undo what the enemy worked for its ruin. Fernan
Jimenez up a blunderbuss, and he beat some days that seemed more gaunt, but threw stones as
light weight, not to damage walls strong, and very raised. Arrimabanse scales sometimes, and
all was fruitless. Gallipoli Montaner succor with provisions and supplies; only our care to ensure
within their fortifications, providing care to the enemy, and neglected to pay more to live. With
their assistance and obstinacy that finally reached pretended, for the Greeks after a long
seven months of siege, they grew in contempt their enemies, and at the same rate neglect saved. The
guards were few, and this not very common. On July the Greeks held in their town with great
solemnity of their parties, and as his greatest pleasures is to wine, vice at all ages infamous
much this nation by drinking, forgetting that the enemy was on its walls, and attentive to
the chances of his suffering, that some dancing, others to sleeping in the shade, left, and manned
the walls as usual. Fernan Jimenez desperate and that it Modico surrender, and take, was inside
his tent as doubtful had to do, when the voices and merriment of the dancers got him out of his
tent. Shortly by little he leaned against the walls, while recognizing people, sent hundreds
of their own should give escalated, and he and the rest would rush the door. Stood with this
incredible diligence execution in effect. The snuggles cent scales, and rose to seventy of them
without be felt, and took three towers. The Greeks awakening from sleep so they harmful, took
up arms, prompted more by the strength of wine by value, and sought to Take of the towers to
ours. In this struggle all occupied, did not come to the door Fernan had undertaken, and so
they had no defend her, put her on the floor, and entered flat foot to the place, giving by those
who fought behind the towers. They went removing and defending towers narrow streets, and ultimately
put their safety in flight, and she was freed and the castle where Ferdinand, with the majority
of their estates. This weekend was the site of Modico, and the pertinacity of a happy Aragon
in eight months of this site. I find remarkable thing to write of us who were in the other prisons,
only regular forays into the land to seek support for forced.

CHAPTER XLI.

Dividense ours in four parts, Montaner Cristopol George breaks.

Won the place, and Modico Castle, Fernando Jimenez Arenós took place in prison and theirs. Rocafort
Rodesto divided his people and Paci, Montaner, clerk of ration, was ruling at Gallipoli, where the supplies
and weapons around the country came together and prevented. If to the other penitentiaries soldiers
lacked weapons, horses and clothes, went to Gallipoli. There resided the merchants of all nations,
the injured, elderly, and other useless people who and most remote place of the enemy, had for
more insurance. This mode is GOVERNMENT sustained our people five years, in all those areas
or regions are till vineyards, taking only what the earth naturally produces. This way of waging
war the times have moved and improved, because the main intent is not to devastate and trocar desert
campaigns, but keep them for own use, for earning a Province to destroy it, and totally prevent
the cultivation of their fields, is the same as not winning, and more when its fruits must
necessarily be worth if they want to sustain it. Not to notice these problems our own, and do not
moderate in their cruelties, which were the peoples they defeated the farmers, were in great
need, that being full of victories, the lack of them out of Thracia groceries with much danger
and damage. Jorge de Cristopol, rich gentleman and principal of Macedonia, came from Constantinople
Salonique to be with the Emperor Andronicus, with eighty horses. Had news that was Gallipoli
uncrowded, and looks like it might do some good set, let his way, and with good spies came near
Gallipoli without being felt, and then found himself with some trucks and mules, had gone
out to make firewood. Which led to his office was Marco, a veteran soldier in the Cavalry. Seeing
undertaken as improbisamente said to the ordinary people, who withdrew from the walls of a mill,
and he took around Gallipoli. Jorge people without stopping to win the mill, they followed the soldier
to notice and they arrived at a time, but more talks as Marco on the ground, gave the first
notice to Gallipoli Montaner Capitan with all took up arms and began to defend their walls, and
fourteen horses, and some Almugavares Montaner came to recognize the enemy, and entertain while
people scattered outside the place had time to retire. Toparónse course, and mountains made a
little band of fourteen horses, closed the eighties, and fought so valiantly that Jorge retired
with a loss of thirty-six of his men dead or prisoners. Dominion was Montaner always charging,
until he reached the mill. Claimed the mule, and saved people. Returned to Gallipoli were set
free prisoners, and handed the gain, men twenty-eight arms perbres gold, fourteen horses to
the light, and seven infants.

CHAPTER XLII.

Rocafort Arenós Fernan Jimenez of tin and copper taken at its four
galleries.

While Montaner became so good luck against Jorge Rocafort, and Fernando Jiménez of sand by
the people who were divided in patients, Rodesto and Modica, and went into Thracia to the sea
more, doing what ever, by setting fire to the places after looted and cutting and burning the
fruits of the campaigns, captivating, killing and never loosening in his revenge. They approved
people try to take are much concerned to the banks of Sea of ??Pontus, where he produced most
of the ships of Thracia. Long crossed forty leagues, entered the place without finding any resistance,
because the Catalans never feared being so removed from their garrisons to live with care.
Won the place, rushed ships and galleys of the port, said they were hundred and fifty vajeles
Montaner, and all they did at sea level on Earth. Collected rich prey, took their four galleys
which the Greeks took Constantinople, when they killed their Aones Ferdinand Admiral. Notable
was the spectacle of that day, for disturbing the order of nature flooded the earth, breaking some
levees that would stop the water from the ditch, and Tues set fire to the ships, serving the
elements of ministers of his vengeance, and out its boundaries and jurisdiction to the ruin of
his opponents, appeared returning to his first confusion as walking all bartered. Many died
in the water burned, others drowned land, reserved only fire its four galleries, which being
full of debris, and enhanced people were sent to Gallipoli. Passed through the canal of Constantinople
more terror of his enemies danger because there was no one oppose them. Rocafort, and Fernando
took the road to their garrisons little by little, running through both of the sides land Forced
to find a livelihood, and quitted his enemy, who abandoned places retired at the most rough
mountains. Andronico known loss, did not seem enough so that it can restore its forces, leaving
them cut off the road, before despair gave their provinces, the rigor of enemy weapons, suspicious,
not so much of value the faith of their own; damage suffered all the princes that his cruelty and
tyranny are more faithful to the unfaithful. In the Greek empire princes were introduced by acclamation
Army, who by right of succession, as they feared losing the place by the same arts occupied him,
walked with perpetual suspicions and fears, and the subjects that outstripped others in value and
counsel to the rich, the honest, the well cysts, as the bold and seditious; also afflicted with
the virtues of each, and vices of others. From this was born the cruelties among this nation, to
remove the hearing ears, and noses, proscription, exile, death from vain suspicion imagined
or feigned, to remove the fear of emulation, and more times were oppressed of the never feared.
Andronico had a Prince of singular wisdom, to their latest , his grandson took the Empire Andronico,
prevented his advice for daring a waiter; this end they always kingdoms and empires, which for
political reasons only you want to keep and take.

CHAPTER XLIII.

The Catalans and Aragonese, to give effect to his vengeance, to the
foot of Mount Hemo due to the Massagatae.

They were the Catalans and Aragonese his apparently entirely satisfied,
if the Massagatae, with General Gregory, chief minister of the death
of Roger Caesar, and that he went, retreating to his country, without
bringing the grievance just reward that they received.

And as for the ads that they had had it was known that the Massagatae is licensed Andronico returned
home, tired of work and toil of war, preferring the easement and subjection of their former
masters Scite, to liberty, they enjoyed among the Greeks; so can the love of country, which makes it
seem sweet restraint, and freedom outside unbearable. It seemed to throw forced ours, since
he had to find, out then reach, before they passed Mount Hemo, dividing the empire of the Greeks
Kingdom of Bulgaria, because it was poorly advised resolution, if within Bulgaria will continue,
and because the withdrawal difficult because of the narrowness of the steps, inputs and outputs
of the mountain as being the people of Bulgaria bellicose, and then a friend of Andronico.
Together Captains In patients, resolved that this faction was due to make every effort, and
thus to get more people forsake Paci, Modica, and Rodesto, Gallipoli was only removed where all women,
under the government of Ramon Montaner, with two hundred infantry, and twenty horses. Montaner
replied saying that he was not good to miss his reputation in the day all ventured, but the prayers
of the army forced him to stay, and trust that made him, entrusting the defense of their wives,
children and property. Ofreciéronle fifth third dam, and another for his soldiers, and the gain
of being true, and safely, many of the soldiers, estimated at little more and wanted to follow
the army, out at night to join Rocafort: Ramon Montaner gave to other license, seeing them resolved
be assumed without it, and moved some interest, because he was offered to him from the Dam cupiese
them. This two hundred infants were one hundred thirty four, and twenty horses in seven. Women were
more than two thousand, and says the same Montaner: Romangui bad acompayat of homes, ben acompayat
of fembres. Enviaronse with good Gallipoli escorts to all who were in prisons, and then left our
Captains of patients to large conferences around the Massagatae, to which notice of intent to the Catalans,
hastened his departure but his diligence could not be greater than its misery, because his enemies
after twelve days' journey reached them before passing the Hemo. The recognizers Catalan field
one afternoon discovered the Massagatae, and the land is knew, there were three thousand horses
and six thousand infantry and baggage to bring their families infinite and farms. Fernan Jimenez
Rocafort and they went better with the people, by ensuring that the Massagatae were not were heels,
and rested the next day in their accommodation. At dawn the next, encouraged his people to rest, has
the battle to the enemy. The Massagatae, the bravest people of all nations of the Levant, admired
rather than fear Case took up arms and went out to meet their enemies in their children's dedefensa
and women. General Gregorio, chief minister of the death of Caesar Roger with a thousand horses,
gave terrible and horrible start to battle opposing cavalry, which was to getting into the objections
that had made cars. Travóse bloody battle, because were the other troops of both sides closed
with the infantry. Viéronse notable facts in arms because they are equal in value but unequal in number,
were fighting. The theater of tragedy was a plain, which for two leagues it spread to the foothills
of Hemo. The chivalry, broken arms, dead horses, broken swords and clubs, with hands, bodies, were
based on the fight. A few gave our hearts a desire for revenge others insatiable need to last
for their own defense, and in all ruled the case because the Massagatae were already all out of
his objections, fighting hampered and confused with ours. Walked until noon dubious victory,
and varied but it killed their flags Gregorio the bravest captains, bowed to us. They wanted to
remake the losers in of the repairs, but it was not possible because the winners came up with them,
giving them death in the arms of their wives, whom he often reached the sword because without
exception of sex or age came to the defense of their children and husbands by offering their
bodies the rigor of death. Increased the victory put the Massagatae stop in horses their wives,
and children to flee, for if only their people take care, few were left to rid the run, but
the powerful natural love even among the barbarians to despise death I stopped him for more damage.
Scattered over the plain, walking, the shelter of mountain, tired horses, recently helped women more
fearful, and Disabled of children in the breasts and arms of sustained, could not be saved.
In this reach almost all perished because desperate scrambling over ours, at whose hands yielded
shattered life, to lead its women are lengthened. No escape nine thousand men taking 300 live weapons,
and in this agree Nicephore, and Montaner. Happened in this case reaches a so strange as pitiful.
Seeing the battle lost, and Catalan weapons was held by all, a courageous and brave young Massagatae,
wanted to go to remedy of flight, but to rid his beautiful wife and a few years, that for fear of
losing life, with the rate that the danger pedia, took his wife's objections and shops, where
everything walking and mixed with blood and death and placed on a horse, the first If offered,
and he in another, took the road to Mt. Three of our soldiers moved of greed, or perhaps the
beauty and adornment of women, were followed. Recognized the husband his enemies and the care
with which he came along. Made his wife's horse front, and he was giving his cutlass, and animated
with voices, but the horse paid to heat and fatigue. With this the wrong retail Massagatae had
to leave the woman who killed him, and giving reins and spurs to his horse, step forward,
but the tears and complaints justly discharged his wife was arrested. He shuffled his horse,
and matching with it, I made the arms, kisses and tears and said goodbye and parted tenderly,
then, raising his cutlass cut off a cut head. Barbara and fierce cruelty and strange confusion of
accidents that at the same time to walk together with the knife arms, and kisses with death
effects all the passion of a lover. Given tender loving arms and kisses, unbearable jealousy
the knife and death, because his enemies might enjoy what he lost, and won the jealousy; two
equally powerful effects on the mind of man, love, and desire to live. At the same time Dead
woman who fell from his horse, took him by the bridle Guillén Bellver, one of three that followed,
but he bloodied Massagatae poured their own hands, with incredible Fury bravery with a knife
took his arm and life to Guillen, and scrambling over Arnau Miró, Berenguer Ventallola be giving
and receiving wounds the woman's corpse fell dead, and does not appear to comply with the
laws of lover, as he sacrificed his life wife to his jealousy, not sacrifice his love to her. Either
way the case was unworthy wise man, if not christiano. Radamisto Tarasmanes son of King of Iberia
us Tacitus has such an event, when fleeing with his wife Zenobia in two horses with Araj the river,
watching rendered by being pregnant, and fearing that not reached the hands of enemy offended,
turn on who could with great outrage wanes, and his revenge, he gave five wounds, and threw it
into the river, but had a different purpose Zenobia's wife Massagatae, villains because they drew
the river, she was cured, and gave the king Tiridates enemy of Radamisto.

Ours after the victory, picked up the dam and the captives, and drove around to their prisons
with great joy and delight of having given so much to his revenge with compliance. The road leading
to fatigue and danger was to be long and the enemy territory, start weapons, withdrew rather
strong, freshly picked fruit of the campaigns, with the but sometimes the food bought with blood
and lives. Between Nicephore any Montaner diversity in relation to this day. Nicephore says
that the Catalans the launched to persuasion of the Turkish Greeks, because the military junta
while under the banners Empire, the most powerful Massagatae as the reputation of always treated
dams with inequality, and made them wrong, that the Turkish Greeks wanted to take this path Montaner
satisfaction and said that was only thinking of the Catalans, and leave it to believe on revenge
because he had not to ask.