 Not
satisfied yet, filled her with bruises and scratches, and we can assure that if the screams
the maid, had not been visiting the site of the bloody scene to all dependents the palace, and even
to the same husband, it was likely he had killed the she had been cause of their suffering.

Felipe,
seeing his beloved stripped of the object that most excites you,
filled with indignation: and were so many insults, so many offensive
and insulting words directed to his wife, who had said he was not
equal to the most despised woman in society.

Having seen that Felipe was in this way, contributed a great way to
disrupt full trial.

Juana could never believe such treatment in her husband.

The shocking scene you just painted, he soon reached the ears of Queen Elizabeth, and had such
a great feeling that was the cause of his illness was further aggravated. However, sought by all
means at its disposal, to introduce peace among their children, not be so possible to achieve
for some time: the Archduchess had a wound that was not easy to heal. Finally, they reached
their pleas to reconciliation. Joined husbands, but not so Juana regained peace of mind.

Meanwhile Isabel's health waned by the minute. His sufferings were so continuous no longer doubted
his early death. One of the main characters of the court, only Crown of Castile to his daughter
Juana, and failing this to D. Charles, his grandson; but warning that if the first was prevented,
and Charles did not have twenty years govern D. Fernando, until he came to this age.

Indeed, on 26 November 1504 Medina del Campo died in Queen Elizabeth Catholic, and the next
day ordered D. Fernando proclaimed by Queen of Spain to his daughter Archduchess of Austria.
The Court shall in Toro January 11, 1508, were First they swore to Queen Juana by owner of vast
estates in Spain. No could then leave the Archduke of Flanders, both for the many issues pending
therein, for the advanced state of pregnancy of the queen being born by little time by Princess
Mary.

Juana reset your delivery, they stood in the way, but a heavy storm, he made arrival to England,
whose kingdom was well received. A few days after split with direction to Spain, arriving on April
26, 1506 La Coruna, where he expected most part of the greatness to receive and pay a fitting
tribute to their new monarch. On their way Valladolid were sworn in, and there enjoyed the festivities
that had prevented its gift.

He seemed extremely relieved at this time Doña Juana, no more than trying to please to her husband
in everything, and leaving him to rule the kingdom to his taste. But how little it lasted this
happiness! So that concluded the Cortes of Valladolid, determined through the main capital of Spain
to become known, because so required everywhere. Began Burgos his race, but unfortunately
oh! In one afternoon they went for a walk, heated up therefore D. Felipe in a game of ball, which
he suffered pneumonia, whose result was subjected to six days, leaving Juana pregnant six
months. Felipe died Beautiful day on September 29, 1506, when he was only twenty-eight years.

Such
was the powerful influence that worked in the imagination of the
new Queen's unexpected death her husband, that many days was beside
himself, and locked in the room that she looked more gloomy and sad.

During this alienating, they had made the funeral and therefore the king's body buried in the
Charterhouse of Miraflores. Once this came to his notice, sent it bring in a clearly arranged
and bituminized, because I wanted to live away from him. So was performed, and not allow anyone
to enter, carrying the days and nights looking at the remnants of the idol of his love. [*] No
kind of prayers made her withdraw away from the body. In vain were the warnings of Cardinal
Cisneros; useless against those of women and main characters, noting the need to address business
of the kingdom. Remained closed from inside the room and ordered a window for which there
could send some food.

[* See the engraving that goes in front of this story.]

Many times it would great to know that the alteration was Spain, and
answered if your child was ready, came to rule, and if not, his father,
that she had other the most sacred duties to fulfill as a widow.

Several of the characters believed, to hear her talk to sanity sometimes,
if the mistress of her husband would have used some spells to make
her suffer so terribly.

What credulity of the time! Not long before no deviation to the same Queen Juana will appear
unbearable that existence, and shortly after called Cardinal Cisneros, informing him I could not live
any longer in the capital where her husband was dead, but the Cardinal I wanted to suspend his determination
then, on account of being in an advanced state of pregnancy, but the will of Doña Juana was
always determined, dared not oppose its mandate. The court moved to Valladolid, by order of Queen
expresses.

Using very short days left Burgos on 20 December 1506, accompanied
by an increased number of subjects with lighted torches, many Franciscan
friars also with lights, Prior of the Carthusian monks who were saying
and some daily Masses for the soul of the sovereign, whose carton
was in the midst of this funeral procession, followed by car and unhappy
Juana Ladies and gentlemen of the palace.

Thus movement until Torquemada where the queen would not go on, staying at the home of a cleric,
and exposes that health status not allowed to continue. On January 14, 1507 gave birth to this
town The Infanta Doña Catalina.

Sad and heartbreaking was this year for Spain. A consequence of poverty and lack large developed
a fever that caused innumerable damage. "And you believe that in spite of being the Torquemada
people one of the most invaded by the epidemic were not enough the entreaties of Cardinal
Queen to continue its path?

Were many and repeated instances that to this cost, to make late April to return to starting out
with the same device at first, but soon tired of traveling. On arriving at two distant Plates
Torquemada leagues, he wanted to take up residence in it, would live with more comfort exposes in
a large population. So he returned to shut himself up in a small village with lifeless body of
her husband, not ceasing to speak, and with affection, and with complaints, and with counterclaims,
which further increase their incurable madness.

Everything remained so until the news gave her father's coming to Spain. This news was received
with great pleasure, because at the time expressed a desire to find out with D. Fernando, in
Castile, advirtierdo which was to be in short stages and with the
same funeral procession.

Unnecessarily tired ruler of the kingdom, archbishop of Toledo, to make day travel without the
body of her husband, all was in vain, so that there was no other resource repeat every night
burial. So they walked to enter Tórtoles, population where his father was pleased to embrace.
But what was the surprise of D. Fernando to find his dearest daughter in that situation, those
wild eyes, his face cadaverous and that wandering eye! When it came to mind was what had caused
his daughter was in that state, it choked off, and big tears streaked her cheeks. Juana was
motionless, weeping, father of my heart? said, your daughter can no longer imitate. When I surprised
my husband's mistress, I ran out of tears. Consider what would my sadness!

Juana had reached the last degree of madness, was completely crazy, but nevertheless owner was
Queen of Spain and his name and consent were necessary to give some character to the acts
of government. This consideration prompted the Catholic king to enter into some consultations
with their daughter for the best deal of business and back again
to govern dominions of Spain.

Joanna, meanwhile, admitted without any reply as he proposed his father, putting only one condition,
that had to leave to stay in the village of Arcos, "in complete freedom, without having to intervene
in another business, to spend the day the rest of this life, next to the body of her husband. "Much
of it worked vary from this thought, but being useless was granted permission by sending prepare
a house in Arcos, worthy of the person who was going to live.

Over a year and a half Juana lived in the village of Arcos but nothing had been improved his
madness. Was to see, say some, the animated conversations that this unfortunate lady, had the
corpse of her husband talks that further increase their delirium, and that instead of alleviating,
aggravates it. "Why no answer, Philip? he said: Callais!

... I still sereis !...» These words Proferia unfaithful to her husband, and others that would
cause shame listen.

From Santa Maria del Campo wrote D. His daughter Fernando warning of the need I had to leave to Tordesillas
and making it more healthy population know was that the village Arcos, and consequently had determined,
to receive on their way to this point.

Dona Juana, was perfectly, according to the answer, in Arcos. So seeing the Catholic king that
his daughter did not accede to his entreaties made the determination, to go for her to see if
their presence could accompany him to Tordesillas. So did D. Fernando Having failed with the influence
exercised over her daughter goes to make that point, but Traveling on the same apparatus in
the other expeditions. Be the temperament to have changed, Whether the trip was not to his
liking, the fact is that Queen Juana was more furious each time, and took more increase its already
incurable disease.

The old Luis Ferrer was the one responsible for the care of Doña Juana, and which is I could not
see, that's why it was a huge opposition to all that the charge made,
pleasure in executing the contrary.

If the pleading, for example, lie down in bed did in the ground and if available to be moved
to another room, but decent and well ventilated closed with more strength bolts of it was. When it
was cold, skin discarded and objects that provided shelter, and the more we begged to dress Luis
Ferrer and asease, walking harder dirty and badly dressed. Shortly after he put on his head the
mania of eating and drinking, and there was occasion for them to go three days without taking anything
up that beset by hunger, took something, striving for dishes where the food sent to him not
go out of his room, so that these objects soiled with others, gave a foul odor to that dwelling,
and impossible for both to bear it. There were moments when, after a great delusion, enjoyed
some reason, and lamented that they had torn the crown of temples and is not happy his enemies with
a burst of this kind, had been buried in a so stinking dungeon guarded by a guard as negligible.

These words came with lightning speed to the ears of the Roman Catholic D. Fernando, so is that
the next year of 1510, when he passed to the Cortes of Monzon, made by visiting, and made
sure everything came together a great council to discuss the method
was to look forward to his daughter, he knew that the presence of
D. Luis Ferrer's tormented, the board came out, that after having
provided all necessary toiletries, clothes and food, would be elected
twelve ladies for continuing care of her, and every night to stay
awake to compel her to dress, undress and move from shirt, even against
their will.

Twenty days was accompanying the King Catholic Doña Juana, which was less badly, but after that
they are obliged to execute the agreement by his father, seized her in a rage so great that no
one could stay at his side. More proactive Cardinal Cisneros greats who had made the council
believed Don appropriate Jubilee Luis Ferrer, because they thought that maybe it would happen
appoint another better Doña Juana did so by substituting it with Don Fernando Ducos de Estrada.
This gentleman was that the ability he showed in the performance of their duties, which he recently
managed to eat and drank, they slept in their bed, which aseara and dress, and until they
moved from room, because his was not more than a foul dunghill. It was to strengthen their
physical, because with his usual finesse and manners, did this gentleman to go to Mass and attending
to various religious activities.

And his fits of madness were less consistent, so is that certain sections of sight the coffin of
her husband, a few days after being taken to Granada, and although it was great his exasperation
when he perceived, he finally D. Fernando Estrada Ducos reassurance. But do not think that this
came to be good at all, never reached this unhappy queen to regain its lost cool. However, the Catholic
king wrote to Estrada, giving the more affectionate and repeated thanks for the service he
had done to his daughter.

At this time there was already one person who was not aware of the disease Queen Juana, but
nevertheless retained some hope of relief, but rather the daughter desire of his subjects, that
of possibility.

In the Cortes held in Valladolid in January 1518 decreed that if any Queen Juana time was in
a position to command the vast domains of Spain cease his governorship
the Catholic King D. Fernando, and that Joanna was the absolute sovereign.

CHAPTER

IV.

The splits that were in Spain, and death of Doña Juana.

There was much dissension in Spain with several parties that began
to form a favor de Doña Juana, others to his son D. Charles, others
to his father, and some others who wanted to come to govern the Emperor
Maximilian I, his father, so I already Spain in 1520 fighting the
dying for their freedom.

                    Supporters of Charles V raised in Castile the banner of independence,
and the chiefs of each other party to give value flocked to his determination
to Doña Juana.

Cardinal Cisneros, then regent and governor the kingdom, was the
first appeal to the queen decided to see if they could leave the hurried
circumstances in which the parties had placed to the provinces and
particularly to Valladolid.

How many were going to discuss such sensitive matters with the queen, came out very unhappy
not ever get a reply worthy of placate the revolutionaries. But the great talents of Cardinal
governor and all that composed his royal council, managed, but at the expense of a tireless work
to defuse turmoil, and soon after, when he died D. King Ferdinand, Spain began to rule the Emperor
Charles V, not to be sufficient capacity for it, his mother Juana. And other occupied to this
lady thought that had come to embittered over his miserable life. The Marquis of Denia brought
the news of the death of her father who put topped news of everything
without invoking cease the names of her husband and their father,
screaming so loud and out of touch, which had Sometimes we all feared
for his life.

No lady or gentleman dared to stay alone at his side. His eyes bloodshot, his face gaunt, his
decomposed hair, everything inspired horror.

In this sad state spent the rest of his life unhappy queen in the palace of Tordesillas where forty-six
years was struggling with what everyone knows, and there being nothing in his imagination than the
memory of his beloved father and the jealousy of her idolized husband.

Known after the beds have just referred, the remainder of his life, in spite of the long and
terrible suffering, was very long, offered no novelty, worthy of mentioned.

Queen of Spain, Doña Juana, stretched out his days until the seventy-three years, without his
incurable evil had been able to find a corrective, but in recent
months, extraordinary aggravated.

Never had condition of another kind, so to have lived a long time Philip the Fair, would have
to spy for his wrongdoing to the queen, a creditor of best manners.

In early 1555 he began to get sick of considerable consideration, going so far of not wanting
to take any medicine.