 And heaven forbid that peace of soul and your honor disturbance that obscures its
light, to think your ladyship in my last sin and certainly the only one that made your honor for
my sake and instigated by me and all the spirits of the underworld
that I helped them then.

"

Thus ended the letter of the Caramba.

As for Marquis, only the father Athanasius, his confessor, he knew what he suffered, recalling
its ugly, but momentary absence, and thinking, and the mysterious
affection that had Caramba inspired, and the unique passion that this
woman had for him, a passion that was taking various forms and conditions,
which certainly did not extinguish the disappointment and repentance,
and not be detached from her until she fell off the soul to breathe
the last sigh.

GARUDA OR WHITE STORK

I

In the fertile banks of the mighty Blue Danube, not far from the great
city of Vienna, lived, it's been nearly half a century, the Dowager
Countess of Liebestein, noble and most fruitful lady.

The death of the Count, her husband had bequeathed many scrolls, very little money, low income,
debts abundant, and eleven children, between males and females, the largest eighteen.

The Countess, with admirable economy was gradually paying all the debts of Conde, and found further
resources to run their sons, who were military, some service of Prussia,
others at the Austria, and others in Bavaria.

Also married to men of his class, they were all Condes, and the least was sixteen quarters,
four of his daughters, countesses also from birth.

Gotten so difficult win, Countess quiet and withdrawn widow lived in the castle or stately home he
had left in usufruct for life her late husband.

The daughters married, had gone with their respective spouses. The children, military, went the
camps, or lining, or by attending and serving in various imperial residences and regal.

The Countess had been left alone with his servants, if the sky had not arranged the most cheerful
and knowledgeable about his children, when he was twelve, hiciese mischief riding on a bronco, which
plunged and rolled him over a cliff, leaving him crippled forever,
and so lame, he could hardly leave the house, not to take crutches
instead to take up arms.

Count Henry lived in the castle, accompanied his mother, and thinker and scholar, was becoming
very wise and read a lot, because the castle was encouraged him in his copious chosen hobby and
library, founded centuries ago by their ancestors and enhanced continuously.

No small part of the castle was very comfortable, elegant and even yet richly furnished, thanks
to the careful care of the widowed Countess. Flemish tapestries covered the walls of two large
rooms. The ancient furniture were in perfect condition. In bedrooms were beautifully carved oak beds
with damask hangings. Various Pictures family, of pompous ladies and knights, lent authority to
the rooms and I got very aristocratic seal. During the winter cold and snow was there very comfortable,
thanks to huge chimneys which could burn whole logs of oak and colossal glazed earthenware stoves
were also in many quarters. But the building was vast, and was proportionately small portion
of it was kept furnished and inhabited. Long and empty galleries, unfurnished, mysterious passageways
and narrow, crooked stairs going down to the deep basements or rose
to the top of the towers, rendered to whole building very timid appearance
and fertile imagination and vast space create ghosts and supernatural
wonders.

Accustomed and fond of the Countess widow and her old house, nothing, however, feared. On the
contrary, he might have pleased her to see through the eyes of his mortal body and to speak and
hear several ghosts of her husband's parents, which souls, he claimed
the masses, often appearing at night, and went wandering through the
garret and innermost recesses of that obscure architectural maze.

Nor Count Henry, somewhat skeptical and Voltaire, was afraid of the
supernatural. Almost he was considered supernatural. Artificially
lived, thanks to a strict regime and the science atinadísima your
doctor