 But his dignity and that long series of diatribes against the army that
had hung at the feet shackled, kept him from these and other events. Did not even have the
consolation of being able to be cheerful when he accompanied military honor your child on the trip.
But we know that the girls are cared very little gratitude your meetings. The irresistible vocation
married by their spirit, by a need your body, such as the spider weaves the fabric and the birds
sing in the forest. Once bound by marriage, the circles, like men than women, lost its appeal
for the ladies of Mere. His attention was immediately on the new Pollastre chirping coming to come
under its protective wings.

Who caused them a series of disappointments and bitterness, which give them little in the grave
was the Count de Onis. In his life had encountered a man more incomprehensible. What poor sweated
to put him into line, in the Florida village of Hymen! But that devil they slipped through his
fingers like an eel. Showed himself for a few nights tender and infatuation with Fernanda and never
left it a hard song. The eyes of the two sisters rested upon them with evident tenderness, no
one tried very hard was to interrupt, bit they needed to send others to go down to the voice
you do not mind the noise. Now, suddenly, at least he could think, Count committed the absurdity
of taking up absently from his chair, yawn and go to play solitaire to a corner of the table. For
its part Fernanda fell on the same weaknesses, getting to chat animatedly with the boy's ruling without
addressing the audience a look at her boyfriend. Carmelite Nuncita and were terrified when this
happened, they went to bed with the deepest consternation.

After the final break, and when at last became convinced that the chance to perform sublime marriage
was not reserved for them, humiliated a little ambition and provided assistance to Garnet, who had
long demanded it to court. Also on this side unholy luck struck them ruthlessly. Fernanda angrily
rejected any word suasive that in the favor of the Indian. If you watched the young ladies had prepared
the chairs so that proves that by sitting at his side, instantly destroying their combination
dismissive gesture by going to the opposite extreme. In forming the brisca items or tute would
not allow a companion should give it would fail to play. In short, was so alert and yes it
was impossible to attack anywhere. However, those Mere persisted in their project work to be
done with patience, which is the guarantee safer to give big business summit.

A few days after the joke of Paco Gomez were in the famous get-together,
more than Pollastre three or four, it Paco, Manuel Antonio, D. Santos,
Captain Nunez, D. Cristobal Fernanda, Maria Josefa Hevia and two girls
of Matthew.

Not thought to play yet. Everyone was sitting less Paco, who was spinning around the room
telling the joke that had since the other night at the theater to Manin, the steward of Quiñones. Since
it had been paralyzed, his famous companion walked without shade in the city. But by the great
trust that his master gave him, the circles of D. Peter kept considerations, and in spite of the
hardiness of their treatment setting and costume wearing, when he stumbled on the street embraced
him familiarly, he was invited to enter the coffee and sometimes brought him to the theater.
Manin for here to there: the rude village had become famous not only in Lancia, but throughout
the province. That knee-breeches, white stockings that leagues wool color, green cloth jacket
and hat calanes gave him an original in the city, where seemed a miracle and a man in this roundup.
It was one of the things that most surprised to outsiders, especially seeing some alternate
footing lords population. Not only out of respect to the Grandee, but because they did gracefully
exits Manin brutal, they are perishing for bringing in your company. In addition, Manin was a
famous hunter of bears, which was said to have sometimes fought hand to hand. The fans of that
kind of exercise so professed respect and sympathy. However, Butler enemies back in his village
was assured, smiling sarcastically, that what of the bears was a sham, that his life had been,
the more fight them. Manin added that had always been a zampatortas until D. Peter had taken a
fancy him out of the darkness. Fairness requires us to print this view, since then assume unfounded.
It must be confessed, however, that the conduct of Manin, offering repeatedly bring their friends
to hunt bears, without ever fulfilling the promise lent it some credibility. But to profess
respect for the health and integrity of the bears of your country is perhaps reason enough
to throw a man to face the qualifier zampatortas? No one dare say so. More logical to suppose that
the famous Manin was, as all men who manage to rise above the crowd, a victim of the wiles
of envy.

Referred Paco, with his characteristic insolent nonchalance and even dispensed not being found
among women, how he had been Manin the proscenium stage with other friends had paid in the theater.
The butler had never seen dancers. By presenting them on stage brought him to believe that her
bare legs. Manin was shocked, fixing them his eyes, where he painted
the astonishment and indignation.

"Then you have not seen the best, wait, looks a bit! "When the orchestra started playing, the dancers
are snapped toothpicks and walking around all the leg up to head height. "Sollo!" Exclaims poor
covering his face with his hands. God knows what he thought was going to see!

Paco narrated the set with ease, walking from one end of the room, head down and his hands in his pockets.
The young Tertullian believed in the case to blush. Everyone laughed less Garnet, who was still
at heart the last day prank. From his corner, where he was like a sleepy bear, dirigíale looks
grim, aggressive.

What had happened in Rosa Estrada-house when the Indian was in demand her hand of Miss? Or
D. Juan nor his daughter could take them a word, but some maid everyone knew that D. John had
refused in contemptuous terms, which made Maroon flaunt their millions and still authorized to
state that Fernanda would not find a more advantageous marriage. Then D. John was annoyed,
I call him and dismissed him with drone packing. Paco, every time he surprised one of those
furious eyes, smiling and winking at Manuel Antonio.

- Hey, Carmela - said standing in front of a box painted in oils - where you bought the San
Juan?

- Jesus!

Mr. - said Carmelita, - not a San Juan, a Savior, how to watch it laughs the poor!

- Ah! is a Savior. How do they differ?

Demoiselles de Mere, hearing that question, they wanted to go crazy
with joy.

They in tears of laughter.

- Oh, what Paquito! Oh, what a heart! ... It distinguishes a San Juan
for a Savior!

And you laugh and laugh. Many years they had not heard anything so
funny.

When they relaxed a little and wiped her tears and rang loudly with
tissue herbs, Paco, who enjoyed seeing them so happy, he asked:

-
But hey, when did you buy, the Savior, that I have not seen so far?

-
I was in the room Nuncia, my soul, but there was no good because the
bed faced in it, and we brought.

- He gave it to Carmela, living
father, a painter of Madrid happened here a few days - said Nuncita.

-
Were you young? - Paco addressing seriously asked Carmelita.

- Yes,
very young.

- Does the artist was famous?

- Mucha.

- Then I know
who he was, Murillo.

- No, I do not think was his name.

- Then it
would Velázquez.

- The name and sounds more.

Young man was very polite and very handsome, eh, Nuncia? ... To you I think you made some cuddle
...

Nuncita looked down blushing.

- Who remembers that now?

- It was
very amorous - continued Carmelita, - but also well-bred and well
understood ...

- Lovesick say?

Just can not be other than Velázquez.

- It was not called Velazquez called González - Nuncita said shyly.

And after saying blushed again.

- That is, González! - Remembering his sister said.

- Well, well, it would be a contemporary of the great race of painters
of the seventeenth century - said Paco not disturbed by the laughter
of the guests, who are frightened of innocence these poor women.

-
"So you made the cut for you, girl? - Continued picking up two fingers
affectionately Nuncita beard .-- I think you you should have have
been very little bullfighter, right, Carmela?

- It was a bit tempted
to laugh.

- Carmela, by God, these guys will think I've been a flirt!
- Cried in anguish Nina.

- Do not believe the truth, girl - Paco
said .-- Do not you remember you have given ear to a church attorney
named Don Max, and then it went in your house talking with Lieutenant
Paniagua from the balcony?

Nuncita smiled with tenderness the memory of those times, and said
with downcast eyes with graceful timidity

- D. Max came home every
day, but never required me to love.

- What love and what pumpkins!
- Paco .-- Say you said that who I really liked was the lieutenant
and completed sooner.

- "So have you been in love with a soldier?
- Asked Emilita graceful volubility, while running a provocative look
Nunez have you .-- Well, good bad taste.

The retired suddenly became serious and he's whiskers bristled with
terror at this out of his daughter, but was relieved immediately by
observing that the captain, rather than be offended, was paid with
a loving smile and I missed a joke like everyone else.

- It's not
her alone that has had such bad taste - with clear intention expressed
Carmelita very happy to have found that stroke of genius.

- And who
was the lieutenant?

... Some junk ... If he saw how turned to ask Emilita !...-- with the same lovely lightness.

- Stop, stop, Emilia! - .-- Paco Paniagua said he was a lieutenant
of the thirds of Flanders very bizarre.

- No heart, no - was quick
to rectify Nuncita - which was the royal guard.

- Was not harquebusier?

-
No, my soul, to tell you the royal guard.

D. Christopher conceal the laughter with a cough flow.

Manuel Antonio and laughed Pollastre blatantly.

- Paniagua was very remarkable man - Paco .-- He had continued the decision that feels so good
the military. The same day he arrived he saw Nuncia morning on the balcony. Afternoon handed
in the portico of San Rafael, on leaving the ninth, a bill statement,
began: "Miss, among confused and frightened, and wondering if you
paid me grace to forgive you dared to confess that my only crime is
to love you ... "

- What a rascal!

How I remember! - Nuncita said, moved really.

The truth was that Paco, the girl who, after much entreaty, had shown
the letters retained by Paniagua, he had memorized and recited highly
original document everywhere to the delight of his friends.

- It's
called a resolute man.

This shows the character of the person. What difference today's military, declared that before
a girl's walking the streets one year then take another to say, "Girl,
when we go to the vicarage?"

He was speaking to the corner where they were looking Emilita and captain. This unites allusion
and turned serious. She became the distracted, but thanking lot Paco the bottom of his heart
the cape, while the retired stroked his mustache with a trembling
hand Nunez fearing that angry, but happy at the same time in the hope
that these cape appropriate will be taken out of its lethargy.

Tired of talking, the proposed Pollastre play a little to the garments. It's a game where men of
criteria if caught something.

Fernanda consented to sit Garnet at his side. Paco Winks, who had struck, had made him ill
effects.

It was a creature very proud, but which was rooted sense of justice.

I could not bear to deceive anyone in his presence, even if the more
insignificant and contemptible.

Could said that the feeling of dignity, it was so delicate and crisp,
made her feel the wounds in other more vividly.

Although hated Garnet, bothered her to be mortified in his presence, especially if it was
for his sake, without prejudice, of course, that she gives to each
moment snubs huge, but understand, not he was right, that the disdain
of the woman he loves, if they cause pain, do not sting as teasing.

The Indian, who was so honored, was beside himself with joy, and began to desire excessive
vulgarity that characterized him at lavish thousand attentions. Fernanda were received with
serious face, but not disgust.

And wine, of course, that the "three times, yes and thrice no," the
"please everyone the present, "" a favor and disfavor, "and so on.,
etc. Society is thus recreated had recreated their parents and grandparents,
and what they thought they recreate their children.

Innocent! There was a spirit, however, did not deserve that description.

Paco Gómez playing with a dismissive condescension, as a man who was ahead of their time making
a thousand blunders and mistakes that proved the distraction that characterizes superior beings.
Instead, Nunez had made the five senses.

No man was ever more knowledgeable in those subjects or that are treated with more depth. His lucid
intelligence had penetrated all the secrets of the game and knew how to draw garments of each
party possible to extract all the juice, as circumstances demanded.

For example, when a young lady had to content him, was instantly deaf. The girl was forced
to lean more and more, until his lips brushed crimson captain's ear. If there was bound to play
the role of the corner of the Puerta del Sol and, therefore, to suffer that pegasen posters in the
face, to sit down against her, etc., etc., would not let the deep Núñez the dam while not pasease hands
all regions of the body.

But when gave more clear evidence of his prodigious talents and vast knowledge that had been
acquire knowledge in that field, was to propose that the young lady whom I had guessed the pockets
are obliged to kiss. Such security were all that nothing would get, who did not hesitate in accepting
the proposition. Err, actually, when you empty the mind Carmelita pocket, missed with Fernanda,
Maria Josefa, with Micaela, and look what a devil! was to ascertain precisely Emilita. Scissors,
a tissue, a thimble and three sweets. The girl cried out clapping his hands, all nervous: Trap,
trap! The captain, calm, peaceful, great as a hero of old, rejected that accusation and showed
up and again that there could be a trap.

--... Unless - he said smiling Mephistopheles - that was you agreed with me let me see in advance
what he had in his pocket.

The girl protested more loudly against this hypothesis unseemly, was
stirred to a degree incomprehensible and, rising hastily, ran to the
opposite end of the room, far from the captain, as if it were to take
by force what law will share.

There he became part of it (women) and who sided with him (Almost all men). Armos in the room
a zipizape as hell. Everyone talked, laughed, screamed unfinished understood. But that was
more shouting and gesticulating, as is easy to understand, the person concerned. However, Don
Cristobal, seeing what had traces not to conclude, and wanting to leave but the formality of
their offspring, intervened in the dispute majestic as a god extending the right hand to calm
the raging waves.

- Emilita - spoke firmly, - game is game. Give this gentleman a kiss.

Note that said "Captain," or even "this gentleman officer." Lips still repugnant civilians make way
for a purely military watchword.

- But Dad! - The youngest daughter said, as red as a poppy.

- Let !...-- uttered with the right hand extended and more peremptory attitude that could take
god never retired.

There was no choice. Emilita, confused and embarrassed, her cheeks turned into two coals hesitantly approached
the heroic captain of Pontevedra, rich in all kinds of tricks, and he touched with the crimson
lips yellowish land of his cheeks.

But lo and behold, it was made just jumped Micaela made a basilisk, the most irascible of the four
mermaids swimming in the depths of the abode of Retired:

- What impudence! ... These are not decent games, but dirt ... No wonder Nunez, because men what
are you?

I'm surprised you, Emilita ... I think a little more modesty and shame do not come evil ... But
how you have to have if you have an obligation to wear it are the first to push the bad! ...

That
bloody attack against the author of his days left pale and nailed it down. There was a moment
of awkward silence. A discordant note so surprised them. However, everyone rushed to defend
and protest Emilita of perfect purity and innocence of such games. The argument most often repeated,
and that everyone seemed invincible, was that not having malice, that was worthless, because
what is important in these matters is intended. The kiss "has been given with the intention?
- Said one of the more dialectical Pollastre .-- No? Then as if he had given. Núñez nodded gravely,
and looking a bit piqued sideways at her future sister.

But it did not give demonstrations so evident and persisted to ask,
with increasing violence and higher voices, a little embarrassed for
her sister migajitas a minor meaning for your father.

But since no one showed up after with these things on hand to meet his vows, had no other
choice but to go down the pitch, until at last his angry protests
were gradually transforming murmur and menacing as that of distant
thunder.

And the gathering resumed his usual calm sweet.

But he was suspended for tonight's game pieces.

Nuncita, who almost always departed the big ideas, proposed to be played to fool. No one knows why,
but it is true that this game had special attractions for the youngest of the young ladies of
Mere.

Words can not express what was happy ex-girlfriend of Lt. Paniagua when he could fit the boba to
one of its commentators, anxiety and restlessness that gripped her
when she was in his possession and could not let go.

Paco Gomez took the deck and took the three jacks, but knowing Nuncita weak and willing, as his
temperament, mortify a little, made a the remaining signal, and then was heard saying to some
of the guests. Result of this was that the loggerhead was almost always placed in the hands of
the girl, and there are traffic jams, no that despite all their efforts
got rid of it.

This, despite his natural quiet, it was gradually getting impatient. The gathering and she laughed
too, but more lip with the heart. Finally, in a moment of anger rolled out letters and stated
that he did not play more. Carmelita, to see that act of discourtesy, speaking harshly, as he
always gets out.

- What frenzy is this? What drives this nonsense? What will these guys? ... Say, with reason, you have no
education, and that our family has not been one who had known teach ... To see if you get the
cards now!

- I do not want.

- What, you say, stupid? You, you, you are silly! ... Has he seen a creature more fickle? ...
Co. .. co ... take the letters immediately ...

Anger made her stammer out of his mouth devoid of teeth strange noises.

- Hum! - Nuncita grunted, twisting his nose with face of care.

- Girl, I'm not mad! - Shouted his sister.

- I do not want, I will not! - Untamed creature repeated firmly.

At the same time he rose from his chair and shuffling took refuge in the cabinet.

But his sister immediately following the most severe and authoritarian attitude that can no
imagine, willing to correct that principle of rebellion, which eventually could bring dire consequences.
They heard rumors of a dispute, projecting his voice rough, irritated,
Carmelita; then that voice was softening, making persuasive, reasoning,
rebuke with smoothness.

Also reached the ears of the guests the echo of a sob. Finally, After some time he appeared
again Carmelita, shuffled even more than her sister, with eyes shining with regal authority
and gesture should be to those who need beings to make laws which
Providence has entrusted to them.

Behind came the embarrassed girl, submissive, his cheeks swollen
and watery eyes.

He sat down again to the table and, without dare raise his eyes to his older sister, who looked even
a certain toughness, humbly took the letters and began to play.

Well, this poignant example of respect and submission, rather than
seriously impress the onlookers, caused by almost everyone a smile
joke, and some of them some inappropriate laughter who barely managed
to quell.

However, the game does not last long

.