 Achieved this
  pacification, and having done three days of funerals for dead,
  visited the sick and gave them some things had given him. Les explanations
  the way of treatment, and rebuked the heads of the insurrection,
  correcting lovingly. It was not known at this month other
  than what happened in that town.
  

  60. They were not the best things the Indians in the river
  PHAC, or Yaguy, because not only were discordant between yes, but
  also with the captain Nenguirú: because, as noticed for among some
  people that the captain to be a fully delivered, and to
  others nothing, he also lost the will. By this time had frequent
  discussions with Portuguese, provoking them to always to go aside
  into the plain: but assured them everywhere on the banks of the
  river, with rough mountains, having cut for log walls, and having
  fortified, stood motionless. There were missing the real Indians
  who at night, and sometimes to hidden, they were to the enemy,
  drawn with Award hopes, and to make negotiations, which promised
  plenty of the enemy: and all peoples were to these fairs,
  they all pretended Michael, was to people acaballo, and those
  who saw it coming on foot, did not want the night believe the
  Michaels. These and other things were seed many disagreements
  between the armies of the Indians, so ever having had civil
  war or internal. Y finally settling in, evil, spread to the
  army, and each a determined return to his house, but was prevent
  this, namely, that it would return, and recruited everywhere
  troops over the peoples of the other side of Uruguay, and prepared
  new weapons, he would return in early January. The more prudent
  did not approve this project because it esponia all that province,
  and all the cattle, the ranchers, à invasions of the enemy. But
  others, still more adamant his view, de facto army began to fall
  apart, leaving. The first to be retired to his people or houses
  were Nicole, but before the departure of these, reached 200 Guano,
  with his noble captains, and then internuncios resubmitting the
  Royals of the Portuguese, caused to the fight, and defied
  the enemy, but in vain. Seeing as the enemy immobile, a captain
  of the Gentiles, called Moreira, went to talk with the enemy,
  and brought much grass and snuff you asked our Indians, and
  also meat to eat: because he said this, he was doing it by deception
  or fold.
 