 

Madrid, April 1868.

LITERARY COURT

I

"I would entirely sentimental, that touched my
soul, to do mourn .... I, when I read and do not cry, I believe I
have not read.

What do you want? I'm like - I said the duke Cantarranas, making face, mouth and nose one of
those nervous gestures that distinguished from the other dukes and all mortals.

I assure you it will be sentimental, be given such that seizures and
syncope, will mourn to all mankind, dear Sir Duke - I said opening
the manuscript the first page.

- That's what we need, my friend,
feeling, feeling.

In this century materialist art should wake the noble affections. It is necessary to mourn the
crowds, whose heart is hardened by political passion, whose mind is lost for ideas vanity that
have imbued the Socialists.

If you do not put you there for a long cry, long sigh, much love thwarted, much tenderness,
great languor, many turtle and lots of quail, we successfully predict a sad, and what is worse,
the dramatic failure of failure and anathema angry posterity.

Said, and affecting the severity of a Patron, the Duke of Cantarranas eyed me with an expression
of superiority, not without another nervous gesture that seemed to sink the nose, mouth break
and rip the skin of his forehead, his face shining Olympic peaceful
genius, sweet and sentimental melancholy poetry.

That disturbed me. Such authority was for me the famous hero! I closed and opened the manuscript
several times, spent heavily on finger inside the stitched, trying
to force the leaves to be open without having to hold his hand, looked
around the first lines, I read the title, I coughed, I moved the chair,
and, frankly declared, would desired at that moment a pretext, verbi
grace, a fire next door, subsidence or earthquake, I had stopped reading,
because, indeed, I was overwhelmed to the respectable audience that
would listen to.

It consisted of four famous figures of such weight and authority in the republic of letters,
who barely understand today how I was able to summon them for a reading of my business, naturally
poor and worthless. Aterrábame, Above all, the said Duke of nervous gestures, the most eminent
critic of my time in the opinion of friends and adversaries.