 

= B = Skin conditions .-- We will just list the skin conditions attached or not these diathesis,
and which correspond to the symptoms of graphite fistulous ulcers, even with a bone lesion was
cured under its influence is also necessary to resort to cystus canadensis or silica. Graphite
is one of the most effective means to sores samosas, varicose phagedenic, after the action of
sulfur, and is on the same line as the club moss, phosphoric acid; the charcoal. You may be given as
specific to the area, as is at least ivy union to order more medication to ease pain of the pustular
eruption, and to shorten the duration admirably, even in people, Moreover, good sound. Arsenic,
and mercury causticum are effective means in the same disease, but the particulars of which
only the first two have been traced.

Graphite has a remarkable efficacy in many herpes wet conditions, exudates, as opposed to calcium
carbonate and other drugs under preference to the dry eruptions. In the head, you can switch
successfully with sumac and laurel-rose, this is confined to the eruptions that occur behind
the ear, the lycopodium complete the action of the graphite when the eruption is set at the back
of the head. Creeping Cradle of children are cured with the graphite, when surrounded by redness
with small infarction of the lymph nodes immediately. The mucosal favus, rebellious, foul, with
glandular suppuration of the same nature, also calls for the action of this drug. Dr. Ruoff [2]
means that in all cases is to use the lowest crushing, and that he alternates with periods sulfur, or
at shorter intervals, and often these dartros triumphs dose of inveterate. Efficiency is higher
in mercury, at the thuja, to the pulsatility and zinc in ecthyma (pustules), mercury and ivy
in eczema (vesicles); but is below the carbonate of lime and phosphorus in impetigo (pustules),
and causticum and to belladonna in lichen (papules).

The abrasions and inflammation of the folds of the neck and groin
correspond to lycopodium, and children are sprinkled these parts with
this substance is intertrigo cured with graphite, and when it is intense
and inflamed skin on the thighs, it is also necessary Staphysagria.

The abrasions of the hands and feet to heal admirably graphite weaker dose even when rhagades
deep, and the hand gets more creased smooth and supple. Lycopodium has also shown in these
cases, in which neither the silica, or gold, or carbonate, or lime sulfur are as safe action. The
cracking of the lips and anus require other medications such as Ignatius, sea salt phosphorus,
mezereum.

Graphite is the primary medication to remedy the abrasions or cracks in the breast. Arnica
relieves pain, but it is a palliative only be used one or two days. Graphite is best indicated
in the slag with burning pain and surrounded by an erythematous area.

In any other case, the club moss or sulfur may be preferable, or at least add, alternately. The
arrangement of the skin to ooze from the slightest cause, or with the slightest excoriation, requires
the graphite in the children and the nerve and delicate chamomile. Oil and cuttlefish are useful sometimes,
if the affected part and no swelling redness. Graphite, in short, is given in convalescence, for alopecia;
applied is very effective topically to the scalp to remove the small scales furfuraceous so
abundant in some people. The calcium carbonate, silica, and are then mezereum his best assistants.

= C = Neuralgia neuralgia .-- It remains indicate they belong to the action of graphite. Solo
has been used in some cases gastralgias cramping with salivation, mucus and development gas,
the atonic gastralgia with rheumatic and arthritic pains, cramps
and cold in extremities, also is the resource of graphite, but with
the condition that it is not necessary herpetic affection exists,
it suffices that the cachectic state similar to this medication the
cause of these neuralgias or there with them.

The same happens in tumors tophaceous of arthritis irregular, often attacked people cacoquímicas
skin erythema or suffering from abdominal diseases.

= Dose .=-- doses vary according to use graphite as alterative or as a modifier vitality, and
according to be used in persons endowed with little reaction force, or of any irritability, from
two or three decigrammes one of the three crushing, to a drop or some cells of the sixth, twelfth,
or Eighteenth attenuation, continuing to use achieve the desired effect. The ointment consists
of one gram of the first crushing for eight of a fatty, mostly cocoa
butter, is very useful in pityriasis leather scalp, in some conditions
rhagades and herpes.

Guaiacum (guaiac).

§ I. - History.

Strategy is guaiac resin, plant family Rutaceae, Juss .-- From decandria
monoginia, Linn .-- The guaiac should occupy a place in the medical
field, if attended to what his doctors have written the old and the
frequent use has been made to last the last century.

On the day, seems to be limited to some cases of gout.

Many authors have dealt with this medicine, among which include,
Ulric Hutten, Montagnana, Jacques Bethencourt, Teuthorn, Hahnemann,
etc. The first he employed in syphilis and Leprosy in the sixteenth
century, often confounded.

The cures for these diseases obtained in this way at that time that were so terrible and serious,
he could not to encourage the study of the effects and properties of guaiac. Unable to deny
Giacomini cases of cure obtained in India, an evil that could only be a smallpox or leprosy degenerate,
is to lessen the significance of these facts, claiming that these conditions are less serious
in this country, which is incorrect and stating that there is more guaiac indian be active
and used in the best conditions, which is very possible.

In Europe, we have used the guaiac in these conditions and in acute and chronic rheumatism, coryza
and catarrh also chronic, acute gout and chronic mucous diarrhea and other flows, in scrofula,
amenorrhea, hectic fever, amaurosis, deafness, tooth decay, and chronic eruptions such as dartros.

§
II .-- physiological and therapeutic effects.

The comments attributed to former guaiac following physiological effects:
neuralgia, varices, contractures and shortening of the muscular and
tendon, subcutaneous swellings and joints, increased urination, profuse
sweating.

The symptoms observed by Hahnemann and other harmony with previous experiments and confirm the
practical data of the ancients regarded the guaiac as more effective and curative only in people
of a weak constitution and in which the disease is chronic or tends to be. Phenomena guaiac
diathesis fever rise up slowly, with exacerbation in the morning
and afternoon, with weakness, swelling with pale face, wasting.

But precisely these phenomena and the height to which they arrive,
they prove that the action is first excitants guaiac.

The same is confirmed by observations of Barthez which saw him produce headaches and bleeding pronounced,
and what show trials on healthy volunteers, as indicated by the following symptoms: fast, burning fever
preceded by yawning, need stretching, chills and rigors, this fever is followed by profuse
sweating on all in the head and in the morning, of brokenness and weakness of the limbs lazily and
horror to the movement, be useless and attempted to urinate, constipation and dry cough.

Behold the picture of the guaiac other physiological symptoms: joint pain; dislacerantes and
darting in the limbs, twitching of the parties concerned; aggravation of pain at the slightest
movement; stitches in his chest pressing pains in the groin, lancinating in the urethra, stiff neck
and a back side; constrictions between the shoulder blades in the stomach, chest, tingling in the
arms and forearms deep nighttime pain thighs, followed by paralytic tension and weakness after a
change in position, lancinating violent in the brain pulsations in the temples; dislacerantes
pain on one side of head, ears, tingling in the cheeks and teeth, pressing pain when compressed
the two jaws, burning pain in the throat.

Bland taste, poor appetite, belching and nausea, as if his throat was full of phlegm, distaste
for milk, rumbling, frequent and repeated emission of urine, leucorrhoea, abundant nasal and pharyngeal
mucus, purulent expectoration, equally abundant sweating, swelling of the eyelids, dilated pupils, weakness
of memory and forgetting of names; looseness numbness of the limbs, paralytic weakness.

Some symptoms such as staring, a lack of ideas, the abolition of the hearing, beats in the head
with a sensation of fullness and swelling of blood vessels, drowsiness after noon, the nightmare,
the rigidity of one side of the back, give some reason to have advised them that guaiac in accidents
strokes.

These accidents concern to the arthritic diathesis, and wasting to cachexia appears to be the
complement of the action guaiac, chronic effect, the result of prolonged action.

Burning itching on the skin that increases scratching, especially on the back, the grain nose and
eyebrow, can justify its use in certain dartros, if these symptoms
are considered to as the rudiment of an action on the skin: this is
presumably because the wrong guaiac and poorly studied experiments.

You may also be used in rheumatic diseases, blennorrhagic especially in rheumatism, arthritis with swelling
in and contractures in some periostitis in migraine skinny people descended from parents or gout,
some mucus or pus, as leukorrhea, chronic coryza, otitis, chronic bronchitis or the same consumption
mucosa.

= Dose .=-- The dye in amount of two to twenty drops in a potion,
or some of these or attenuations of the first blood every twenty-four
hours, are the doses used, the first in preference to the others.

HEPAR sulphuris (lime sulfur).

§ I. - History.

The combination of sulfur and lime in question, also called liver of sulfur limestone and lime
sulfur.

Has been less used than the sulfur of potash with which it great analogies, and their original
use is fairly recent. First he used the exterior in scabies, dartros and scrofulous tumors. Stoll
recommends in goiter.

The first internal use is due to Hahnemann that proposes to combat
the mercurial salivation [3].

As has been better known, its use has been ostensibly more cases,
and today is one of the drugs that combat the pulmonary tuberculosis.

Continuing our march, dispense with the appointments and take care of the physiological effects
of the drug and deduct the therapeutic indications, availing ourselves of the results obtained
in patients.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

Lime sulfur is well known by the Germans lymphatic venous medication. Its effects on the blood system
are secondary, and its expression is subacute. Its effects diathesis simulating chronic scrofulous
constitution. It mainly affects the skin and mucous membranes, but
in a special way he used to.

Work on the vegetative life facilitating the uptake of poorly prepared
materials, determining a mucosal cachexia pus, and a slow decomposition
of the blood, and his fatigue is marked by mobility nervous, because
it rises to the excitement, even the illusion of the senses, such
as the smell, for example, exalts the nervous irritability spasms,
as if they were the last efforts of a life that tries to resist his
rule.

Thus, these phenomena nervous are the least important indications of this drug, ie, they are
very serious so that they can often be useful.

The lime sulfur chemically and therapeutically part of sulfur and calcium carbonate, and expresses effects
lymphatic system disorders and nutrition, and chronic irritation more varied. Lobethal indicates
the effect the importance of medicinal compounds esperimentacion have undergone. The hepar
sulphuris, says the homeopath, is the smoothest and effective substitute for pure sulfur, in
cases where a confirmed disease, especially in the field of breeding, organ damage, skin ailments
and lymph ...., you claim as a convenient, owing to the mixture of sulfur and lime. This mixture
is, such as sulfur, a convenient antiphlogistic action throughout flegmásica chronic irritation;
but is less Ereta this, and therefore has a smoother and often use
useful, mainly on the conditions for abuse of mercury.

The many acts of healing have amply justified the hopes that experiments physiological had made
to conceive of this medicine one and others have revealed lime sulfur pyogenic a virtue. Facilitates
the formation of pus and chairs so to this work, which often obviates the opening of the abscess,
as arnica accelerates inflammation and suppuration is opposed to and to the healing of a fresh wound.
Therapeutically speaking, the facts prove every day that is the best medication that can be used
suppuration in, in glandular abscess and pyogenic even diathesis and arnica is the best way
of healing and blood reabsorption.

The lime sulfur diathesis is characterized by destruction of the forces and symptoms as close to that of
the machine, but with the circumstances at that, losses moods are mainly in hepar flows, muco-purulent
and serous effusions are replaced by tissue injury with loss of substance. There are still between
sulfate quinine and lime sulfur somewhat analogous in its effects that make them suitable for
croup. Hepar neuralgia also have similarity to those of the machine, that affect people annihilated, and
cacoquímicas, and only weakened by numerous losses pus of good character. The pain, in short,
are dislacerantes and are aggravated by touch and those of the machine.

We are not outstretched but in these generalities, because we simply have established the field
of action of lime sulfur, which is that their elected on the skin and mucous membranes origin is
the alteration of hematosis owing to the elaboration of materials Blood and its transformation
into pus. The effects of this drug, from first to the last, have a chronic start retaining
a seal from irritability erethism blood vascular system, and the profound alterations of plasticity
that react nervous system of inorganic life. We'll keep in therapeutic applications groups
characteristic of this medicine, which we shall see in a new hepar agent, whose pretensions
to the healing of tuberculosis should not be overlooked.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = fevers. Inflammations .-- In the febrile phenomena lime sulfur observed aggravation
at night, the pain makes the chills are more uncomfortable, the heat causes anxiety. Those are
played outdoors, the heat is fleeting and partial, it can be fiery and general but of short duration.
The sweat, when it is not partial, night and morning, usually viscous or even smelling acid and
in some parts. The bitterness of the mouth, the ease of chills to reproduce the exterior air,
thirst, even shiver, the cold inside the the same sensation you feel in the evenings, the
vomiting of green matter during the fever with dry heat, the great
sensitivity to cold, bad humor, anguish afternoon headache at the
vertex of the head, ulcer pain above the eyes by afternoon or evening,
and the terebracion above the nose in the morning, the pangs in the
head, as if to burst, coupled with vertigo at the time of download,
these symptoms and similar to the eyes, ears, nose, larynx, breast
..... the joint pain, vagrants or erratic, the heaviness of the limbs,
easy to traspirar with the slightest movement, sufficiently indicate
the usefulness of lime sulfur in fevers catarrhal, with less irritation
of the mucous membranes of the eyes, ears, throat, that eyebright,
and with less tension that orgasm and arsenic, and nux vomica.

The inflammations which is indicated hepar are fluxional species or inflammation erysipelatous on
the cheek, eyelids, nose, lips and other parts, there is redness, vesicles sometimes, and always
a tissue swelling invading cell free redness, swelling is oedematous in the limit of the healthy
parts. These inflammations are a slow and indecisive, and generally infebriles. Graphite can
be his assistant, especially if erethism predominates.

Catarrhal ophthalmia, scrofulous, rash, with eyelid swelling, secretion mucus, pimples, scabs,
redness around the eye, or sort of escrescencias pustules the conjunctiva of the eye, burning
pain of ulceration, redness of the conjunctiva, are lime sulfur in its own best remedy. It is
less effective in blepharitis and inflammation Chronic free edge of the eyelids, or swelling of the
meibomian glands, when There is tearing, swelling of the eyelids, muco-purulent discharge,
crusting, burning, moving painful eyes. It is extraordinary efficiency in ophthalmia of the newborn,
swelling, a gush of pus, in particular whether there has been abuse, or simply use of mercury.
In short, his resolute action and healing is notable in small ulcers é chronic indolent corneal
pannus and manifested in consequence of those and prevent vision threatening.

Coryza belongs to lime sulfur in subacute and chronic periods, and also, the runny nose, scratching
in the throat, swelling of the nose, lots of mucus nose, and even saliva, fiebrecilla afternoon,
cold feeling inside, pressing pain in the ethmoid region and in the cheeks, nose blunt pain and
its surroundings, and sometimes escocientes pain in his face. Otitis and otorrhea lime sulfur are of the
same nature, but it should be noted that this drug is effective,
especially in people in the state of health easily and secrete earwax
is abundant.

= B = Laryngitis. Membranous angina. Croup. Pertussis .-- laryngitis, angina and simple membranous
claim the lime sulfur as a powerful remedy, the majority of their symptoms reproduced with this
medicine, these are: dry throat, dysphagia very pronounced, swelling of the tonsils, throat
throbbing with danger of suffocation, tingling in larynx excites cough even with bloody expectoration,
dry cough with pain escociente in the chest, hoarseness, constant pain in the larynx that is
aggravated by pressure, by word, by coughing and breathing, marasmus, hectic fever. Mercury
and bromine even are perhaps less important than the lime sulfur in the treatment of membranous
angina.

Croup and whooping cough are also represented in the following symptoms: cough deep anger caused
by breathing difficulty, choking and vomiting, cough similar to the of whooping-cough, dry coughing
with pain in his head as if to burst, and lighting dark face, coughing, screaming, dry coughing,
snoring, deep anguish and suffocation, usually ending in tears, anguished breath, wheezing, hoarseness,
accesses suffocation forced to move his head to one side, breathing short.

This medicine is also the most convenient after aconite, provided
that the cough magazine Some of these characters, with hoarseness
in the range of access, without waiting for the condition worse.

These two drugs can, in such cases, prevent croup. When not relieve symptoms, with a dose of
iodine or bromine, you can get the result. Lime sulfur is only indicated in the whooping cough,
in the decline of the disease, and when the sputum is abundant and mucous with hoarseness.

= C = Piogenia. Phthisis mucosa, mesenteric. Pleurisy .-- chronic laryngeal tuberculosis is not the
only that this drug is effective, it is also very useful in chronic catarrh and phthisis pulmonary
mucosa, when the cough, whether or not violent, is accompanied by abundant expectoration of mucus
and pus, bloody sputum, hoarseness, oppression, weakness bodies and
chest voice, to the point of preventing speak or read aloud, insomnia,
thirst, slow fever, night sweats and cloudy, yellowing of skin dryness
and itching.

These are the cases in which the iodide of iron and tin can share profitably treatment with lime
sulfur.

The mesenteric tuberculosis also falls within the sphere of action of this drug, the Just as heart
attacks the lymphatic glands scrofulous and inflammation. The belly is bulky, hard, tender,
with pain as from contusion, there are stitches in the region splenic
in the liver and the rest of the abdomen.

We present contractile cramps and pain, pain of ulceration, cramping, dry, hard stools, and diarrhea
or from escrementicias white matter of sour smell in children, dysenteric stools, tenesmus,
cachexia slow fever, dry skin and yellowish, emaciation extreme, greed, urine turbid or that
break easily, or night sweats acid viscous.

Pyogenic suppurative diseases or a tendency to suppuration, are the
ones that obviously Lime sulfur is generally useful.

It is also in this study the pathological which is exhaled plastic lymph vessels and leads to
pseudo-membranous exudations in mucous and serous surfaces. After his instructions in the
membranous angina croup, now indicates some inflammation of joint capsules and pleurisy, that
this drug may take place after the bryony, and other more suitable agents in the early stages
of phlogosis: that the lime sulfur was active curative in these cases, it must have already given
the device feverish movements fluxionarios it is necessary that there is only a point of irritation,
a sufficient local phlogosis exudation for this job. In these circumstances, the lime sulfur is indicated
these points that remain after pleuritic fever or purulent effusion
formation of an abscess, even when there is a subacute fever with
chills, referrals, exacerbations fever similar to that of suppuration,
but any sign of hydrops with hectic fever and tension, preferably
indicates arsenic.

= D = adenitis. Ulcers. Abscesses. Purulent diathesis .-- It emphasized the value of sulfur lime
in the treatment of heart attacks and inflammation of the lymphatic glands, especially neck, several
other drugs have similar properties, shall we say, for Therefore, in these cases, the drug
in question can not replace the sulfur and calcium carbonate, and barite and mercury are essential
in treatment this species, with or without the lime sulfur.