 This project was
nothing less than Apollo's move the fountain in the center of Prado's Gate Sun and unworthy
as a peddler Pérez, narrow-minded, tasteless and without aesthetic dared to dispute the post!

The
more embedded was, realizing the skilful intrigue that had concocted
to give a vote of censure against the mayor, his eternal estripacuentos
Cobo! he approached the group, and then listening for a moment, stopped
him saying:

- Go, Ramon, do not give tone.

We know that the City does not represent anything. González nose takes you where you want.

That was a tough blow for Maldonado.

Consider that was before the Esperanza and another portion of women and girls. So tough was stunned
him as if he had been in forehead with a sledgehammer.

Was livid, his lips trembled before you can utter a word. Finally he said in an agitated voice:

-
Me González? ... Why the nose? You're crazy! ... I do not take anyone by the nose ... much less
González.

He spoke the last words with affected contempt. Gonzalez refused for the same reason St. Peter
denied his Master, the rogue pride.

Conscience told him he lacked the Indeed, although the cock crows. Gonzalez was the leader of
the minority municipal, and Ramon I was in the depths of the soul a great reverence.

- Go, go! If you want to deny that Gonzalez handles like a dummy!

You would be good dissidents were it not for him!

Ramon suddenly regained the use of the word, and so thoroughly that delivered more than a thousand
few minutes with ferocious momentum, releasing foaming with rage. That was rejected as absurd
kind of dummy and fully explained the significance that Gonzalez had inside the municipality and
the position he occupied. But he did it with such excitement and gestures decomposed as the
ladies looked on amazed and smiling.

- Ramon But this is what genius!

... Who knew! ... Come on, Cobo, do not you dizzy Moreover, it can be bad.

The compassion of the women came to the soul to rage councilman.

Suddenly was silent, and cracking teeth in a lamentable, are locked at least one hour in a dignified
silence fearful.

In a secondary station in the middle of barren fields and were dilated, as the sea, horizon, the
train stopped so that passengers could have lunch. The servants of the duke, sent ahead, had everything
prepared for this purpose. Ramon became a gentleman servant of Esperanza. This was left to give
away benevolent countenance, which he had half overjoyed. The reason for this condescension
was that Pepe Castro had not been mandated express his aunt the marquise de Alcudia. Marriage
negotiations, carried on large stealth, increasingly demanded caution. As Maldonado was so intimate
friend of the owner of heart, Esperanza was a delight having you
at his side.

At the same time prevented you were carrying stories about whether he spoke with the Count de Agreda
or Cobo. Poor Ramon! How was outside of these complicated psychologies!

Reassembled on the train. They continued walking through endless plains, yellowish but none of
them happen straighten the magnificent landscape British twins. And reach rivers just before dark.
River mines are located in the center two peaks slightly high, a famous mountain foothills.
Rodéanlas everywhere rough terrain, hills and low hills, which abound, however, cracks and differences
that give sad and sinister. Between these two peaks is a villa built since ancient times. Our
travelers did not get to it. They stopped two miles further back, in a village called Villalegre,
where engineers and employees had placed his house to evade the mercury and sulfur emissions
slowly poisoned not only the miners, but the neighboring rivers. Was separated from it by a hill
and offers, and the town of mines, striking contrast. Irrigation purposes a stream and makes it
fruitful and pleasant garden where lilies grow in abundance wild, jasmine and heliotrope and
roses all of Alexandria, who have taken naturalization papers there as in any other region
of Spain. The pungent aromas of thyme and fennel embalmed and purify the environment. The best and
most ornate of these lands belonged to the Company. From the village about three hundred steps
and in the center pride park rises stone factory. Is the room and the center director mine
administration. Not far away, scattered on either side, there are few pavilion with a garden trellis.
Moran there some government employees and some physicians, although most of them are domiciled in
Rivers.

Villalegre no station. The train stopped near the road leading to the capital the province. There
awaited them a few cars that drove in ten minutes at the palace Directorate. At the entrance to
the park and nearby was a crowd that greeted the procession to live off. They were the workers,
who were not on task, those the director had come from rivers that purpose. They all had pale
skin, chalky, dull eyes, in their movements could be seen, even without approaching far some
indecision about became tremor. The bright procession came to play that legion of ghosts (as
such resembled the dying light of late). Eyes the beautiful and elegant they found the miners,
and if we are true, we say that no shock that a spark came out of sympathy. Behind the smile
forced and unhappy workers, an observant man could read it clear hostility. Salabert courtship
quietly crossed through them, with obvious discomfort, the faces serious, and with a look of fear.
The ladies instinctively pressed against gentlemen. Upon entering the park murmured a few: "My God,
what faces!" They breathed pleased to be rid of those deep, mysterious eyes. Only Rafael Alcántara
dared to respond with a chanzoneta:

- Truth. The sovereign people not around very good appearance.

The director presented Salabert employees. The doctors were almost all foreigners, types of all
blond and rosy offered direct. Even less administrative. The only called some attention among them
was a young thin and pale, with thin mustache black, whose black eyes were fixed hard decision
so the guests that bordered on insolence. Without knowing why, that changed with a look he felt angry
and separated promptly in sight. The director introduced him as the
doctor of mine.

The guest rooms were prepared, some in the building direction (the more account, so he could be),
others in the adjacent pavilion. When they rested a moment, all moved to the great hall of
the director, and from there in procession solemn, ladies arm in arm of the knights, the great
hall of offices that had enabled room. It was a splendid meal which the Duke offered. No threw
least none of the refinements of aristocratic dining rooms or in the luxury of dishes, or in
seasoning the dishes, or the correction of the service. While they ate, The vast park is lit
at the Venetian. When leaving the table they all ran to admire From the balconies the sight,
it was great, dazzling. An orchestra, hidden one of the largest pavilions, brilliantly played national
airs. The same ladies gentlemen driven by the heat was stifling, attracted also by the beauty
of the show left the house and spread around the gardens. The chickens were able to lead some
girls up near the gazebo, where was the orchestra, and began to dance. Cobo Ramirez, approaching
the group, he shouted:

- Do you know what you look like, guys? Traveling salesmen in the thicket of Migascalientes.

This resemblance must have come to the quick of the soul. The dance has lost its charm for those
young artists, and was soon extinguished.

But as the inspiration of Terpsichore burned their hearts, took the agreement to move the room
and continued worshiping there, self-awareness of that terrible weight had thrown Cobo.

The evening party no longer welcome. There were very nice fireworks brought from Madrid. Ladies
and gentlemen flowed on the roads sanded inhaling with delight the fresh night, embalmed by
the scent of the flowers. There was only one black spot on that pleasant evening. As you approach
the gate loomed the crowd of workers, women and children who had come from rivers to the noise
of the party. The same faces were pale, sad eyes, smile, that had arrows to enter. So, trying not
to get to the edge, stay on the roads and roundabouts in the center. Only Lola Madariaga, prided
himself on being very charitable and was president, secretary and treasurer of three companies welfare,
respectively, was the only one who ventured to speak with them and
even spread some silver coins.

But the darkness left after obscene phrases, some insults They forced her to retire. The Count
of Cotorraso was furious to know:

- And ask for these freedoms and
rights Bedouin!

To make them honest, grateful, decent ... and then we'll talk.

By the same law of elective affinity that we have discussed above, Raimundo found walking with a character
taking off a bit from the rest of that society. He was a gentleman fifty to sixty years, short, thin,
graying mustache and goatee, bulging eyes and distracted, shielded by sunglasses. His name was
D. Juan Peñalver. He was professor of philosophy at the University and had been minister. Enjoyed
a reputation for wisdom, justice, and respectability that few had met in Spain. For this reason
the young savages looked with hostility and affected to treat with contemptuous familiarity. It
is clear that there is nothing to disturb both wild and philosophy. Then the intellectual superiority,
the glory surrounding Peñalver to hurt his pride. The disdain did not notice this. He had a
jovial, affectionate, and totally distracted. He was unable to look at the different patterns of
social intercourse, barely grown since he had retired from politics to devote himself exclusively
science. Had been part of that trip to please his brother Escosura, who owned a considerable
number of shares in the mine. Lately been devoted to ardor to the study of natural sciences,
where they left the most accurate shots against idealist metaphysics that he had devoted his
life. Accidentally tripping over a girl so understood them as Raymond, felt a real pleasure.
That society will terribly bored. Took her arm, and regardless of whether or not it bothered
him, he started Physiology lively chat.

Raymond was in a time of sadness and dismay. It was noted that while Escosura project was about
love Clementine. The celebrated with a brazen wherever I saw her, unaware affecting their relationships,
even without noticing it. This Escosura physically and morally was the opposite of his brother-Peñalver.
Tall and burly, chest lifted and sharp features, rich, man has in politics, fiery speaker,
a voice such a huge sound and that by his enemies, she had most of their successes parliamentarians.
She was about forty years. Minister was not yet, but it was said that I was in very short time.
Clementina had repeatedly rejected their request. Raimundo knew and was proud of this win. However,
there was some concern self-starting every time I saw him talking to her as now. They sat in
one of the roundabouts with several others aside and talked animatedly. Every time I passed
Peñalver front of them, his heart sank: barely understood or even heard the learned disquisitions
his illustrious companion was pouring into the ear. Tangerine understood by their looks anguished
as he was suffering, and after waiting malignantly a while (which in this all the same), got up after
and came towards them smiling:

- What plot wise?

- Let me you good - responded with a modest smile the young -. Here there are no wiser than
Mr.

- For the Lord is going to be lecturing to the Countess of Cotorraso, you want to talk to him,
and you come with me to see a Gothic cathedral that the fireworks will burn right now - said
hanging nonchalantly on the arm of her lover.

Alcazar was happy. He would not inform her of the sorrow she had felt for a moment because it
did sometimes suffered twice: Clementina answered him in a light tone and mocking him in the living wounded
chest. They watched the wonderful cathedral fire until died down. The gentle pressure on the arm of
the beautiful, that sweet smell, always himself, who breathed his gentle person, alienated the
young entomologist, and predisposed to softened by the affection
test his love had given him.

This, I knew him well, feeling that oppressed him stronger arm, looked intently at his face,
sure to find tears in his eyes. Indeed, Raymond was crying silently. Smiled at being caught embarrassed.

Always
the kid! - Said she laughed and gave her an affectionate tug -.

Reason has Pepa say you look like a schoolgirl of the Sacred Heart. Let's walk, which can be
attached you.

Gave a tour of the deserted streets of the garden. From one corner looked a rather unique piece
of landscape. The full moon lit the crest of the hill Next, the separating Villalegre River
and made it appear like the ruins of a castle. Clementina wanted to ascertain the truth. Left by
a back door, cleared of people, and slowly approached the hill. This
summit was bare of vegetation, instead of bristling with uniquely
shaped stones that made him look a heap of ruins. Needed to be very
close to it to avoid mistakes