 Since then everything was life and activity, and even had the pain
of seeing their efforts wasted, why not give up hope of enforcing their experience to receive
their evidence.

Among the means it proposes, and that we felt were appropriate and practicable, there is one call
the attention of the Government, because it can help to increase resources for the treasury.
Viedma instills in which imitates the egemplo of the Crown of Portugal, which granted licenses
no temporary to established companies, to engage in whaling and wolves on the island Santa Catalina.
The product of this line should be of some importance, if calculated
extension with our shores, and the prodigious abundance of whales.

Also weighs the utility of occupying the island of Choelechel, and to this purpose can not dispense
to transcribe a piece of her memory, in order to admire his foresight. "Taking Choelechel
site, and ensure the passage to the Indians of those nations (Peguenches and Araucanian) are numerous:
we take these enemies to the fields and borders Buenos Aires, and we are preparing to enter the
country and other major projects that can attract Black River by
the part of Valdivia.

"These wise thoughts were neglected, and only After half a century, the Lord General ROSAS has
had the glory of realizing them.

Promoted to the government of important provinces of Cochabamba and Santa Cruz de la Sierra, He
wrote that this was succeeded by the superintendent of his brother D. Patagonia Antonio, it imitated
the lively interest with which it watched the prosperity of those
establishments.

Viedma continued to operate his new apartment, and died in Cochabamba
in 1809, leaving their goods to a hospice house for the education
of poor children, and founded another orphan.

                                   These were his services to the Americans turn to venerate his memory.

        

The original of this memory is preserved in the private archive of Dr. and Canon D. Lord Saturnine
Segurola, who has been generous enough to cross it for publication.

Buenos Aires, January 30, 1836.

PEDRO DE ANGELIS.

MEMORY Directed by Mr. Marquez de Loreto, & c.

EXCELLENCY. SIR: -

The great love with which I looked Patagonian establishments through the knowledge that would
taking the advantages that the State could produce, I misted every
day more and more to sustain and encourage it: but neither my constant
efforts, or the repeated representations to to see the relevance of
the findings and experiences in the production of their land, were
able to counteract the spirit of opposition pursued them, and finally
triumphed this, leaving them reduced to the extent that today it looks.

However, I hope to be the root arrives to promote how much we have lost in their abandonment, and
to give a true light and knowledge of its great advantages through the garments that adorn
high Excellency, able to restore only a few establishments that can serve as invincible wall
the enemies of the Crown, from security to the capital, to promote his trade, and what is more,
the means to propagate our holy religion, to extend the benefits of redemption to a prodigious
crowd of idolaters, that experience has made me know they are docile, without foolhardiness
and who can promise a rich harvest to the evangelical workers.

But my confidence encouraged to see that after I had the honor of integers to well above VE
the occurrences of these populations, their proportions and utilities, he deserved welcome ear,
we found very addicted and willing to learn all that radically, and
as a subject so vast that he can not rely on verbal reports, and withheld
the news for a perfect knowledge, VE sent me to do it in writing,
for the sake of so superior provision, in relief of my love of the
King's service, and common good of these provinces, I venture, with
the confidence that gives the truth and the good cause, to propose
to your Excellency, that efforts at all times that our Court has been
set in the aforementioned populations coast were born from the illustration
that had the advantages that would bring the state and to Religion,
without having to move from concept, because there is no success corresponded
to how happy the project.

That notwithstanding that the emulation has always been regarded, will be useful, as it is in the
day the promoting livelihood and has been in the Black River, by the prosperity that attracts
and will see, also proposing ways and means to promote it without
squandering the treasury.

                         Three parts make up the plan of this report.

I hope than I can perform to my desires, and as worthy of the importance of the matter!

PART ONE.

Since achieving his dominions Spain to join the vast, fertile and rich kingdom of Peru has always
been the object of the untiring zeal of Kings and Ministers, preserve inviolate his faithful
subjects, and improve the disposition of souls idolaters, to attract our sacred religion. The
achievement of these important and beneficial ideas, with orders and permission of Government,
there have been several expeditions to discover the islands, coasts and ports South Sea and southern
lands. Such were those of Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa in the year 1579, from the city or port of
Lima, who made the voyage by sea to the south of North, discovering the islands of the archipelago
Chono, the Strait of Magellan where he crossed, with the ports, bays, inlets, shoals, reefs
and how circumstances offer: for whose plans, relationships, daily news and safe passing the
Strait English privateer, called Francis Drake, the second was determined that rushed in Spain
the year 1580, twenty-three bagels in command of Diego Flores de Valdes, with destination transporting
troops to the kingdom of Chile, for relief of war that was in him, and let in the Strait of
Magellan people going to settle under the direction and control of Sarmiento, which sailed the
following year 1581, the port of San Lucar. And having suffered many losses, delays and arrivals,
by large storms and other setbacks, the end from the river Janeyro Commander resolved with the consent
of the other officers, Diego the Rivera with two ships and three frigates come out for the
Straits with people, food and articles intended to settle. That effect was executed well, and
he went into that place about half a league, 280 people lay on the earth, not wanting to move
forward with loss one of these craft, which could only save the artillery and supplies. All This left
the charge of Sarmiento, and a small bagel, only help to big business;
retiring with the other ships, without having taken another providence
for the promotion and sustenance of those nations.

With so small a population Sarmiento forces formed in the same landing site, and San Felipe another
call at a port hondable little more in the interior of the Strait, the they could not survive
the abandonment with which people looked at that miserable, perishing every one, a soldier named
exepcion Tome Hernandez, a native of Badajoz, which was saved in an English vessel passing
through the Strait to the South Sea. The expedition of the two Nodal brothers who crossed the
Strait: the parents Cardiel, Quiroga and Strobl, with Captain Oliver the year 1746, intended to
recognize, and populate the Bay of San Julian: Commander of the D. Francisco Pando, for the same
awards: the D. Sunday Perler, officer of the same class with his control, called the Chambequin
Andaluz, and lately which have left Montevideo and Buenos Aires, to form populations in the
Bay without Fund or Punta de San Matias, which drains the Black River and St. Julian, from December
of the year past 1778.

He brought to mind these expeditions by the time series in which they occurred, to demonstrate
the efforts of the Crown to set Parages establishments in those deserts.

The short time that I adhered to, so that narrows my trip, I show leaves room large expenditures
that have led to the Crown, and the people who have sacrificed so arduous enterprises. Newspapers,
news relations and give a true idea of ??this assertion. But what we have achieved in such repeated
attempts? What have we got so many expenses and losses so large? - At the present time we can
only say, nothing more than meet our curiosity to cross the threshold
and the way we want to close and defend our enemies, and make it impossible
for the reduction of the heathen souls, which has always been the
largest vigilance of our Catholic and religiosísimos Monarchs.

Rare disgrace of our nation, so sacred that have similar purposes as a result! Orders and provisions
of the Court have never failed to achieve them: no expense has been spared, even amid the most
dire times that afflicted the Spain: but inconstancy, emulation,
the lack of sincerity and little pain to work on all occasions, have
been some powerful enemies that have marred so heroic enterprises.

For conviction of this truth, we critical facilities and population that formed Sarmiento,
and Rio San Julian and Black. For those left a navy port San Lucar, led by Diego de Flores, 23
ships, and well that not all of it destined to For this purpose, as is sitting, was reinforced
later in the Rio Janeyro with four galleons; and losses caused by storms, could not be allocated
to the egecucion of these stocks more than two ships and three frigates, under the command of
Diego de Rivera. This Captain, as something lost, thrown or landed people going to settle,
within half a league Strait, lost a boat, it leaves more shelter and aid to Sarmiento a small
bagel for the relief of those people in such remote distances and Parag, whose land in a long
time could not produce fruit for their preservation and survival. It back with the other ships,
without repeating the relief memory. With these provisions, So what
were to have those miserable? - Of course.

The loss of all.

Let us now see what was the cause of these misfortunes, and that it breaks so holy an end. "The
futility of such lands, or the bad provisions of Diego Rivera? - It is well implies that the
latter. The land could not produce, nor bear fruit in years people that they might exist,
and for lack of wins, which is the greatest force and soul of populations, and because, to prepare
the land for agricultural work was must observe the time better suited to the fields, and have the
tools and oxen calls for the need. None of this reflects their inconsistency, and the little pain
to work the voyage, which was to be made through the Strait to Lima and to other ports to support,
encourage and ensure populations. Is performed so strange and violent landing: you look with
indifference the King's service, and the remaining state of those
miserable, abusing the loyalty obedience and courage with which despised
death.

What else could make the Court, in an era when Spain was afflicted with the efforts that caused
the willful rebellion of the flamingos, which gears up as respectable navy, and later strengthened
with four galleons? If you have played Diego Rivera their orders with more foresight, with
another baby, or with more humanity, repeating aid with the vessels under his command, those
populations have been set, or at least would not have lost so loyal and unfortunate Spanish,
but their inconsistency, and no suffering to the work, made useless
the efforts of King, and sacrificed to these unhappy.

Although the experience of these events gave to the wise minister, who so glory of the nation
address the monarchy, the light and knowledge, so do not develop so unfortunate end establishments
latter Bottomless Bays and San Julian, no so have been able to free himself from the same contrasts
that finally brought down to a estenuado skeleton of the young population of the Black River.
With such a strong case (though never gave up the intent of these populations), they had indeed
found the King at any cost in both expressed bays. To this end appointed commissioners, and
ordered families from different provinces of Spain, with his real
will, who enlist the most honest, hardworking and better behavior.

Implemented this project with the first expedition that came out of Montevideo, commanding D. John
Stone, was discovered the port of San Jose, where he was made the first provisional establishment,
and the little water they carried vessels, lack of horses, oxen and mules to lead from sources
that were discovered, and poor quality of food supplies, sick people, and missed the record to wait
for relief from the Rio de la Plata or River Black, which was discovered a short time, forcing
the commander most violent terms D. Antonio de Viedma to withdraw
with almost all of the people, to the square of Montevideo, Santa
Teresa in the packet boat.

The opposite event that caused it was the arrival at Buenos Aires D. Basilio Villarino Black River,
where he delivered the Super-intendant D. Francisco de Viedma, to succor the port of San José,
with a lot of watery which led the brigantine Our Lady of Mount Caramel and Animas, and the loss
of the hooker, call the Visitation, which was to set sail in that bay to drive aid to the San José:
Well, having achieved any of these relief, has not been rooted with
scurvy killed 28 men had not forsaken that position, and caused the
loss of the effects and there were groceries.

These unfortunate principles generally altered and prevented the spirits
so that nothing has been more odious than Patagonian establishments,
and all have conspired to another purpose to destroy them.

The many jobs that means for setting the San Julian, and encamped at the time the People in Puerto
Deseado, where little perseverance and suffering of the commanding officer the troops, and
counter interim seduced and intimidated the other, in terms to avoid was forced inconveniences
the Super-intendant D. Antonio de Viedma send to disposal of His Excellency. D. Juan Jose de
Vertiz, news and the reasons for this deliberation; and as for the diseases suffered in the port
of San Julian, the homeless, long voyage, salted meat food, and other causes, eventually lifting the
universal outcry against the two establishments, whose continued complaints and sighs opened in the
gracious heart of Mr. Vertiz the gap to their way, for which he came
to occupy é impress with the same horror.

Although the establishment of Black River was exempt from the calamities suffered by others, for
its excellent water, abundant game, and cattle with which our aid the Indians, it could not
get rid of equal or greater persecution. Since the early reign in the main heads a spirit of
emulation, of volatility, and no suffering to work: for whose concerns were not exempt persons more
characterized, and together they directed their thoughts to move
the minds of other people, to be abandoned office, whose efforts have
always been challenged by the constancy of the Super-intendant.

These first attempts frustrated, seeing that by the superior government of Buenos Aires had supported
and aided the establishment of extreme necessity in which he was, prepared weapons by other means
to destroy them. Many pondered the expenditure involved, the barrenness of the land, it was only
useful in the short and the pieces on the shore the river running down their innundaciones, not
enough to sustain a population. Bar river which made impossible the navigation to the enemies
of the Crown, which is why by nature that entry was defended, not having found the jurisdiction
of Mendoza by difficulty of navigating the Black River, owing to its rapid current, and many
Indians savages who traveled and attended those spot, which would
be frequent invasions, and neighbors they do not flourish, it being
very likely to be victims of these infidels.

However several reports have given the Super-intendant to the Viceroy Lord with all sincerity,
strength and knowledge of many circumstances they offered those spot, sending samples of the fruits of
their land, they credited their fertility and having Viceroy Lord himself adopted, by order
of November 15, 1780, the establishment expressed - that any promises that may be a useful
population, and not to be, as I understand, other founded reasons that make them delusional, he
reached thereby prevented with repeated complaints and cries, that nothing was more violent, no
more disgusting than these establishments. They scoured reports of the same opponents, whose professions,
experience and talent in some make them suspect, and nothing useful to qualify the truth. The
same aversion, prompting the most violent desires to succeed in their
influences, the teacher was dictating these reports.

With the multitude of these headlines, though not safe, that was sent to form a board of ship captains
and colonels who existed in Montevideo, to recognize, indicate their opinion on the utility or
futility that caused the prosecution to the Crown establishments.

All unanimous, it is said, were for the latter: such proofs I was the cause.

With these documents and decisions, without waiting for other result, that experience and findings
could qualify as sincerity or unfounded, it sought to impress the real spirit of the King and his
wise minister, whose result was the royal order of 1. st August last
year next, sending establishments leave San Julian and San Jose, and
that only subsist the Black River, reduced to the sad skeleton that
expresses the Viceroy Lord could stay.

On their way to Spain, these justifications, arrived in the Bay of San Julian to the Montevideo Plaza
Super-intendant D. Antonio de Viedma, and presented an information, that his motion was the captain
of infantry D. Felix Iriarte, composed of residents of that colony,
in that together they declare, in reference to what is experienced
in the fruits their fields, that those lands were productive to maintain
the population.

The Super-intendant of the Black River, with the wheat crop this year, which amounted to 1269 bushels
and three pages, credited the population could survive with its fruits, and as a result recognition
of that river, which launched the second pilot of the royal fleet, D. Basil Villarino, going up
near Valdivia, proportions of the place which he walked, hopes that promised the rivers that were
to recognize, and soon discovered that made lieutenant of infantry D. José de Salazar, opening
the way by land from the port San Jose to the river, in office from October 13 of that year, presented
to the Viceroy Lord important of the two establishments, founded the reasons and motives in
the latter result, which it rejected the objections of the reports and opinions, and at the
same time manifesting profits that could be drawn from them. But like everything came late,
not enough to contain the unfortunate fate suffered, that, though not as unhappy as those
of Sarmiento in Strait of Magellan, had almost as useless expenses, work loss and deaths that
cost to carry the state in which they were at the time of abandonment; San Julian as the rooms had
already repaired some comfort in inclement of time, which caused scurvy cut coat of many cold
of that climate. Began producing their land, to keep off, the Indians were going every day taming and
fans of ours, so with good reason could be expected to reduce within a few years of these idolaters
the bosom of our Holy Faith, and by this means that King had the new populations of these natural,
serving for one example of their neighbors to such a holy purpose. And lately, with little
more than had been spent, was completed population, and in terms of survival itself, if it could
help with all manner of cattle, as the only force in agriculture, and soul of the people.
By that expired this population can be said when I started to take breath, and to give a large
tests to get what they so desire and so the Court has repeatedly attempted.

If we reflect on the people of Sierra Morena, find a safe hilacion of and opposition efforts
to be mediated against Patagonian establishments. In the formation of those could not mediate
the difficulties, risks and work, which in these, being in the center of Spain, and not lacking
in terms of human needs for the preservation of life and relief of mind in the rational society.
Quite the contrary were the proportions of these establishments. Salted meat, bad bacon, miniestra
minced, and meals usually stale have been the mainstay of its individuals. Reduced rational treatment
to each other, the risks many of the wild Indians, and Breakfast miserable shacks, or huts of
straw, irresistible to the inclement stations. See inequality as the average of one to another.
In the Sierra Morena there was more to do than build the houses, simple operation for the many
materials and operators that were held. For the cultivation of land were provided with oxen
tamed, and excellent tools that filled their wishes. In the Patagonian coast around lacked: the
rigors of cold climate, particularly in San Julian, and only found the greatest relief where he
was suspicious of the risk. The savage Indians held and encouraged us at that port, providing
relief to the unfortunate people with guanaco meat, without whose help had perished, and the Black
River, with the hares, horses and many cattle. Now So Check against the advantages enjoyed by the
Sierra Morena with the misfortunes of those Rio San Julian and Black, and fairly be said that everything
was happy and joy, and here all unhappiness and sadness. Despite this inequality, and be near
a wisest king that manages the universe, plotted intrigues and contradictions that are notorious
of which can be inferred that such a lengthy mediated hemisphere where only the two commissioners
have been and will hold a impregnable rock.

PART TWO.

                         The whale fishery, the supply of salt in the province of Buenos Aires,
and provide for this means the meat trade of many that are lost in
the vast fields of the Rio Plate, facilitate port for ships sailing
up our Sea to the south and become more soft and comfortable this
navigation, paving the way by water or by land to Valdivia and Chile,
where with less cost and risk can be made transitive and trade that
achieves Buenos Aires, and ultimately repair and extend the one with
the capital in corambre of their campaigns, maybe even the Black River,
linking to this importance of security borders that underlies the
increase in populations of Indians and sugecion media attract the
true knowledge of God and the good of the state, are the utilities
that the we can take time and get in the conservation of the establishment
of Black River.

Vastness and awesome of them to the first impression, shows a strange aspect to be watched with
the utmost contempt. Notwithstanding anything to intimidate me, because love and spirit of patriotism
I looked to the just, pious and charitable intentions of the King, in the execution of these
establishments, he defies everything.