 

Gallardo he fought, killed, was flipped by a bull, without injury, and had the audience in continuous
trouble with their audacity, that most of the time were lucky, causing colossal howls of enthusiasm.
Certain decisions respectable fans happy smile. Still lacked a lot to learn, but it had heart and
good will, which is important.

- Above all, it really comes to kill and not leaving the field of truth.

Good friends of diestrus Men swarmed girls drunk with enthusiasm, with hysterical contortions
watery eyes, mouth dripping, running in mid-afternoon the lexicon of loving words used only
at night.

One threw her shawl into the arena, another, being more, he added blouse and corset, another arrived
to take off her skirt, and spectators agarrábanlas laughing so as not to throw the sand or stay in
their shirts.

On the other side of the square, the old judge smiled tenderly at through his white beard admire
the courage of the boy and how well suited her suit "lights." Turned to him by the bull leaned
back in his seat, as if about to faint. That was too strong for him.

In a proud pavoneábase contrabarrera Encarnacion's husband, sister of diestrus, a saddler to open
shop, sensible man, enemy of idleness, he had married cigarette smitten with their thanks, but
with the express condition of not trying to 'bag' of his brother.

Gallardo, offended by the gesture evil brother, had not dared set foot in his store, located outside
the Macarena, or the ceremonial apearle you when from time to time you was at home of Mrs. Angus.

-
I'll see how the rascal naranjazos are at your brother - had told
his wife to go to the plaza.

And now, from his seat, waved to the right, calling Juaniyo, it's your, strutting satisfied when
the bullfighter, attracted by much shouting, finally notice him, answering with a flick of his sword.

-
It's my crib - said the saddler, that you admired those who were
with him -.

Always I thought this guy would be somethin 'in er bullfighting. My wife and I have assistsin
lot ...

The start was triumphant.

The crowd rushed Juanillo, as if to devour enthusiasm with their expansions. Thank you brother
was there to impose order, cover with your body and drive up the rental car, which sat next
to the bullfighter.

When they reached the hut in the neighborhood of Fair went after the coach a large group, as a popular
manifestation, cheering that people were leaving the gates. The news of the victory had come
there before the matador, and neighbors ran to see close and shake
his hand.

Mrs. Angus and his daughter were at the door of the house.

The leather fell almost holding her brother-monopolizing, shouting and gesticulating on behalf
of the family to nobody touch him as if he were a patient.

- Here
it is, Incarnation - pushing his wife said -.

Not even Roger de Flor!

And Incarnation did not need more, knowing that her husband, by distant and confused readings,
considered this historical figure as the set of all greatness, and just add its name to dare mighty
events.

Some neighbors enthusiasts who came from the run complimented Mrs Angus, admiring Prayerfully
swollen abdomen.

- Blessed is the mare that gave birth to a boy is so brave! ...

The friends of stunned with their cheers. What luck! And little money
he would win your child! ...

The poor woman was showing in his eyes
a look of amazement and doubt. But was it really Juanillo which made
its run to the people with such enthusiasm? ... Had they gone mad?
...

But suddenly fell on him, as if it lasted all the past, as if
his troubles and tantrums were a dream, as if confessing a shameful
error. Its huge and flabby arms is the bullfighter coiled around his
neck and tears wet her cheek.

- My son! Juaniyo! ... If I saw the
poor of your father!

- No yore, mare ... Today is a day of joy. Nah,
you going to see. If God gives me luck, I will make a home, and I
see her friends in a carriage, and Nah, you go to yevar ca Manila
shawl away er felt ...

The leather welcomed these purposes greatness
movements claim to the absorbed wife, who still had not left surprised
by this radical change. Yes, Encarnación: what would this boy if he
persisted ... It was extraordinary. Not even Roger de Flor