 

And yes, chewing and getting more stronger hand in your pocket

"What a mess ... It's like that head out of cork.

Only you, you big silly make such grotesque, and only my wife likes ... You are the one to
the other. "

He retired from work that day D. Francisco more tired than ever. Saw double objects and his
head was so dizzy as if on board a ship. But he was confident that such unease would be temporary,
and welcomed the advancement and beautiful effect of the work. The angel was completely modeled
and with those incredible hair points. Willow protected with the tomb weeping branches, and
it was unfortunate that there were no green hair, as if such there was the illusion would be complete.
At the end nothing was missing and he was a model of perspective melancholy, so much so that
only those who had heart of rock could see it without feeling winning
pout.

There were still flowers from the floor and the entire first term, where Bringas was running late
to a broken and fallen columns and ruined temple with which the idea of ??desolation was represented
the most perfect way.

In early June we saw some of this work completed, but there were still several small things, Sunflowers
little ones, big thoughts, not to mention a few butterflies sentimental black wings, perched
here and there, sipping the sweet Macassar in the calyxes of the flowers piliform. On the
same day the events occurred, which the artist was completely worth strange, but for this
reason it should not be forgotten here. And was that when approaching the day appointed for
their money back to Torres, Rosalie was so crestfallen, which could be believe, seeing that he had
stolen anything or inferred a huge offense. Calculations and more calculations made, disrupting
the brain, without actually solving the problem feared and negábanse numbers to please, giving
the figure I needed ... What an idea! Would come " Mr. Fish? Oh, if I called this door would
surely be heard, but did not dare. In addition, D. Manuel is going at the time to Archena baths (because
without a pair of annual fairings man was lost), and would not return until 20. The 12 is presented
Torres with his eyes of eggs imbued with a sweet hard stunned. It was the image of kindness, in
the event they are giving him stick. His smile made Rosalia cloying effect of a fluid miasmatic
seeping into her and made her sick.

And how impertinent nose girl, and how tiresome resobarse the skill
of the beard, as if to draw from it some substance!

Man guapín, Rosalie was always indifferent, it seemed then that a nice executioner presented with
the rope and Hopa.

XVIII

And it did not come little urgency to this!

... What a point! By day 14 without fault required that. But before I could be delayed even
a day or an hour because his honor was committed Mompous's house, and if that Rosalie could
not comply, would be pointed to request Mr Money Francisco.

"By God ... do not say such nonsense. Jesus! ... You have gone crazy, "stammered the Rosalia
shaking and upset. "

He returned to take their accounts for the hundredth time. Not even selling things that did
not want to sell, could raise the sum. Had brought the lights up some numbers, but some of
them I had spent the good lady to buy trinkets to make up to four children. If Miracles would have
returned those six hundred actual anticipated him to pay the jeweler ...! Yes, it was necessary
that they be returned. They are strictly ask. If art Devil, or rather by a miracle of His Divine
Majesty, Candida had some money ...! Candida five dollars owed Rosalie lent to turn a ticket
for a hundred crowns. Even those lost were real return to the fold. Using energy purposes, went
to the Marquise. Accident fatal! The Marquise was at a religious function, that costs with other
ladies. Ninth was a dedicated patron saint I do not know why, with Manifesto Season, Rosary, Sermon,
Ninth, Joys of the Holy, Holy God and Reserve. Went beyond Rosalia eager to see her friend that afternoon.
The street was full of smart cars. In the church, made a blaze of gold, with velvet curtains
cheap, paper borders golden spotlight thousand, huge bouquets of cloth and a flag that resembled
theater third order, there was such competition, it was very difficult to penetrate it. Rosalie
did open way through the elegant crowd, but could not get to where she was the Marchioness
which had been perched in the sanctuary, near the priests. He spent long, long time, during Rosalia
which sermon he heard half pathetic, piping, a stew of cliches sauce theatrical gesture, he
heard guttural cantorrios more or less, and finally did so late,
but so late that desperate to see the end of the long role, had to
leave without speaking Milagros.

The poor lady was a martyr for the intolerable methods of her husband, and not could delay his
return home, because if the food was not on the table when accurate, D. Francisco snorted
and said nasty things, such as "Daughter, I have died from weakness. Warns again, and eat alone.
"

The night passed very uneasy, and the next day, June 13, around midnight,
when was preparing to visit his friend, here presented is, startled,
saying the expression on his face that something extraordinary was
happening, and it will say so, not only plastic neglect it, but the
confusion of voices and other spasmodic symptoms.

Rosalia part of that shock when she heard him say:

"Ah, friend of my soul, what conflict I am! If you do not me out for the good ...».

- Me? - Said Bringas away, then realized it was a money problem like yours -. Just you come in
good time ... If you knew ... I was there.

- Home? ... I'll tell you what is going to be sorry for me, very sorry. Tomorrow I have dinner
dance, a feast of family, absolutely indispensable. I have given away invitations ... You'll see
what disappointment! Daughter, by God you give me a glass of water because I can not speak. I
have something here that my breath away ... (After swallowing a few mouthfuls of water.) To
avoid headaches, custom dinner at Bonelli. Yesterday I sent for him. I fix it easily, but that,
with all his impudence, I require that I have to pay three dinners that are owed. I rather
like, just imagine if I like you should ... Ah, believe you, my mariducho's fault that we live
this way ... But let what he said. What was I saying? You do not know how my head. Ah! In
view of the requirement Bonelli, sent this morning to Trouchín, the Arenal Street, which never
helped me nothing, I propose serve dinner tomorrow, I adjust, we agree, but the convicted Would
you believe?, With many courtesies and glibly tells me that if you do not pay in advance no dinner ...
This is already an insult. I've never been anything like it ... I'll tell you. Is The cabinets
are all about. Bonelli was undoubtedly to prevent and take Trouchín the story that I had three
dinners. It's a conspiracy against me, a plot ... While you look,
they were right, dear, "but I do fault I have?

That man incapable, my maridillo ...! As you say it is little. It is properly incalumniable ...
Yesterday I had to pay a account of his tailor, who had hung the bell on the front door ... That
You see my situation, advise me, indicate to any output.

Rosalia, with humble reasons, unable to compass told her friend that labyrinth, mostly when
she was in a similar predicament, and had one day to recover ... those hundred real ...

"Oh, yes, I remember it perfectly ... The day before I lay down on the purse to bring them you
... excuse me ... but before leaving home, was presented the collector of the Congregation with
the receipt of my share for the function of yesterday y. .. daughter of my soul, I had no choice
loosen ... By the way, yesterday I saw you in church, and I felt that there was a to let me
see some things. Bonitísima function, but you do not see how mess? The cucurbit went to church
with that loud of snuff-colored dress that seems a habit of the order of stagnation. The home
uniform. The San Salomó was also very noisy. I've seen in my life more pouf, and although they
say that the trend Fashion is increase, I think the church calls
for restraint on this.

Nothing I mean the bearing studs so great ... Why, and tail? ... As for me ... Have you looked
at me right? You could not ask for more simplicity ... But back to my suit, my dear. Did not
advise me you something?

Runs through me, for I have become like a fool. If I meet here tomorrow the question, I'm lost
... Believe me is to commit suicide. "

Out of curiosity, asked her friend Rosalia what I needed, and hearing
him say that about nine or rather ten thousand reais, put a grumpy
face the tribulation which increased the already Milagros so troubled.

"Ah, how little encouragement you give me ... And to make matters worse, yesterday afternoon I
was Eponine a scandal.

If what happens to me does not happen to anyone ... I have put some accounts ... of as loud ...
For a creature of two thousand reales!, And accoutrements of that
gown, just accoutrements, 1500!

... Is to kill ...».

"Ten thousand reais! - Rosalie muttered looking down and counting
the syllables like coins -.

With the fifth I would have enough.

"

- Say you, D. Milagros Francisco ...-- said with animation, suggesting that the blessed Bringas
must have savings.

- Shut up you by God! If you knew my husband said the other terrified ...-- -. These things take
him crazy.

- And Candida? ...

- Holy Mother!

- It could happen ... I forgot to tell you, expending three or four little things, I can have
four thousand. I only need six.

- Impossible to all impossibility.

- That Milagros Torres ...-- muttered,
my mouth was dry, the tongue stuck to her palate.

- Jesus!

Torres! ... Rosalie said what nonsense !...-- watching stand up to it, as a fantastic appearance,
the image of his creditor -. I do not know if I told you that morning before of the twelve
... Alas, it was crazy to buy that cape. You see ... What need I had these drownings?

- It's a bargain, daughter - said the Marchesa with that condescending tone and indulgent I knew
to take when it suited him -.

If I leave my conflict, such that you futesa so hurry, run to me.

(Going over to her friend and squeezing his arm.) Don Francisco should be very parné saved unproductive
money, ounce for ounce, a style palette. What a big delay! That's the country as it is, because
capital flows, because all the cash is in the coffers, with no benefit to anyone, not to the
possessor. D. Francisco is among those who believe that money must be raised cobwebs. In this
his significant your husband is like the locals rich. Why do not you suggest something? I pay
what I need ... means, with the interest due, and through a formal obligation. I do not want ...!

-
I doubt that Bringas ...

- (With heat.) Well, daughter has to have some influence you about it ... Well, no more missing.
Are you stupid? In saying, "man, for God's sake, that money gives us nothing." Y hard, hard, to
learn. Or do not have character ...? I thought that he consulted you all, and let himself
be dominated by who wins in intelligence and government ... Let's see, decide proposed. What this
says: if we fix the runs you piquillo my account. (Laughing) I consider as brokerage.

- I doubt that my husband ... Quia impossible ..!

But even impossible to believe what had happened to his ingenious friend, Rosalie pondered about
it. The same insuperable difficulty of the case drew its spirit, such as large problems captivate
and fascinate the above understandings. For a while nothing was heard in Gasparini louder than the sighs
of Hacking Pipaón and some of the Marchioness, which bronchi was
not in the best condition.

As the two friends were alone in the house; Bringas had not returned
from the office, or school children, could speak freely their troubles
without mystery of them.

Telleria turned to doze his proposal, strengthened with weighty reasons (oh, dead hands money
is the cause of backwardness of the nation!) and very cucas flattery:
but he persisted in considering Bringas proposal as one of the most
difficult and rugged that could be offered to the will human.

Only attack it was like climbing to the heights of heroism. In their own state followed the
two when he appeared Candida, very cheerful and plump.

He came to see His Majesty and Dona Tula, and later, had been in kitchens where the chef was determined
to make entrecotes accept three and a pair of partridges. "Things ...». Galland He was not
tired of gifts, and not to offend, she said, "Well, what I get on home."

"Then I'll send you a partridge and two entrecotes - Rosalie told whipping with his range -.
No, do not thank me ... If I do not have to prove.

A spare me meat ... Yesterday I shared between the neighbors a great
steak I ordered to bring the Plaza del Carmen, waiting have guests
... If you could see how grateful these poor people ...!

My house is the Charity. The day I moved in that room have to run through there many tears.
"

XIX

And then, taking their ideas to a very different field of charity, but also very interesting,
let's say that the letter is copied:

"Will I be able to tell you where and how and in what way could I
put a little money an amount I have left?

... That is a sure thing and a moderate intake ...».

The effect that these clauses were in the two friends was not as great as was expected. In Rosalie's
face painted indifferent incredulity, it was resolved soon after in alarm, remembering that the loan
of five dollars requested a month earlier by Candida was had a preamble like he had just heard.
Milagros, without confidence in what the Grande García said, suspected that there was some truth
in it, or whatever it is, was justified to the absurd as the desperate
grasps at straws.

"But tell me, Candida ... "That money will you have?".

- My daughter, do not be a material ... I have not exactly in his pocket, but as if I had ...
One of these days you have to bring me Muñoz and Sones ...

- (With dismay.) One of these days ... now.

- And I usually think things over time ... Frankly, I like to have
large sums at home, because even in this neighborhood are palatial
bad people ...

Without regard to projects of Candida rentier, Milagros
watched the dress. At that time, the illustrious widow began to decline
noticeably in her bearing and the cleaning and repair of their clothes,
but had not arrived, nor much, sorry extreme neglect that we have
known it later. 

The children entered school, and Rosalie was to
give them a snack.

"How cute is Isabelita!" - Said Milagros Candida,
and some say, are directed towards Columns, left alone with her bitter
grief to my wife the Marchioness. This could hear the chirping of
small, the voice of the mother riñéndoles for his impatience and kisses
smacking Candida gave them. Soon Rosalia appeared in Gasparini, and
Milagros was frowning and smiling at same time as when we can not
avoid the effects of one of these sets, comics might occur in the
saddest times.

"You see how funny - Rosalie said her friend's ear
-. I've said in the dining room, with much secret, do you favor to
overtake the other five dollars. "

Milagros smiled, as a patient
who makes an effort to distract. He soon fell again in that deep sadness
that the flattened like a consumptive fever. Passed through his mind
terrible launch of the next night, the guests arriving, filling the
halls, she dressed in her large pink satin skirt, enormous pouf and
lengthy tail, affecting joy and the problem still unresolved dinner.
Because in that night I could not get away with four trifles ... What
a shame! ... Rosalie saw her friend's eyes moistened by tears, and
tried to comfort her.

"That dissolute without conscience, the futility
...»-- was the only thing that happened