 Rid the intact
bed sheets and blankets stirring, took his hat and overcoat, and went into the corridor. The old
and Angelina awaited me there. Aunt Pepa very battered with the shawl, the maid, fallen on the
shoulders coat, showed her beautiful face.

- Good morning - told me shy and timid.

I am sure that turned red as a poppy to shake my hand.

- Come on,
boy ... go!

What are you waiting for?

And you Angelina: Lady Jane to wake up at to stay with Carmen?

- Yes, ma'am.

- Well, let's go, Rorra that from here to San Antonio and we have
to walk.

Far, but there go, - repeat - there are stories, and rattles, and tambourines, and string music
that plays sounds and happy parts, and the mass is not long .... How that says P. Solis!

We take up the street, a narrow and uneven pavement.

Excruciating had to climb hill.

The chapel of San Antonio is in the Barrio Alto.

From there you can enjoy a beautiful panorama.

The burning lanterns with dim light.

The serene extinguished their torches, and women's groups and children
were rushed to the temple.

The mother scolded the kids because they sounded their horns and tambourines, and fearing
that a precise time and others they remain dumb.

I offered my arm to the elderly.

- No, - he said - I better off alone!

Give the lady ....

Angelina not refused, but I realized that accepted him for commitment. He stopped aunt Pepa
and smilingly told us:

- Nice figure! The following old heartthrobs!

Angelina wanted to unbind his arm, but I would not let him.

Find new groups that were in a hurry, no doubt to win place in the chapel. In one corner ran
into some "nacateros' their way to market heavily loaded with large
pieces of bloody flesh.

Upon arriving at the square in front of us spent a milkman, riding a pony, a pitcher on either
side. He greeted us respectfully. He was young, well clearly told us her fresh and clean voice

-
It ....-- Mauricio said Angelina.

- The Santa Clara dairy .... Of the estate of Mr. Fernandez ....--
added the old woman addressing me.

When we climbed the stairs we saw people crowded into the door. Not yet opened the sexton,
and all were struggling to put in a good place to go first.

The chapel of San Antonio, the "sanctuary", as they call the old villaverdinos, is a Churrigueresque
church, very well prepared and placed on top of a hill from which
dominates the skyline.

The cemetery is bounded with a fence that has paths doors on three sides. Four aged cypresses give
the site a burial, the true appearance of the cemetery.

Pepilla aunt did not want to get to the point where the devotees were scrambling to break through,
and sat on the top step of the staircase.

Laughed the boys, the girls chattered, scolded the old, and was a
small fry around, with incessant noise of bells and whistles of water
wonderfully mimicked the chirping of a chorus of larks.

Angelina and I approached the gate, toward the city.

And no ringing in the towers. In each of them a high-pitched bell, urgent and shrill, called
the faithful.

Not yet dawn. Villaverde lanterns glowed in the dark streets and
above the rooftops like a swarm of fireflies. The waning sky in lights,
and a peaceful glauca clear, pure and peaceful atmosphere and as the
cool breeze that rocked the cypress, was flooding the sky. Orion sank
between the peaks of the Andes, and Ursa Major down to the valleys
of Pluviosilla. In the region where vague dawn heralded the dawn.
The whole valley revived, the Stony ran garrulous and singer, as if
its waves softly repeated the strange harmony of the chimes.

The
clear skies that night almost winter was gradually losing its immense
serenity. Of vague whiteness that dawned in the eastern peaks of the
soft blue-green ink everything invaded, rose slowly, first swing and
indefinable, then different and well shaped, colored clouds and clouds
of violet, through which we saw the stars disappear between bursts
of fire. The church bells were calling the river was still singing,
and whispering the woods, and came from the forests and glens something
like distant sound of orchestras mysterious ran back in the mountains,
in the depths of the mountains, unheard symphony.

Was opened, at
last, the door of the chapel, and the crowd rushed into the sacred
precinct.

Elbows on the fence we beheld the spectacle of this splendid
entrancing twilight Villaverde landscape lit by the red glare of the
rising day on fire furnace with reflections of the colored clouds
on the horizon that rowed.

- Angelina - I cried, shaking hands with
the girl - you love me forever, forever, as I love you?

- Always!
- Answered trembling .-- As today, and tomorrow, even after death