 This in yes,
it is a fact of our soul, witnessed by the internal sense, but knowing that fact of experience,
is something very different from the same experience as you to know this, we make the transition
from the subjective to the objective, referring to what we experience outside in the lower.

Objects refer to different points in space, we consider each other out: say that this instinct
in question is a condition of our subject and experience sensitive, is to enter a fact sterile.
The difficulty lies in knowing why we have the instinct of such a reference, that the representation
of an extension is in our soul; CHAPTER why such subjective lies in a simple being, it has to
offer to our perception as the image of an external thing really big.

[125.] The Transcendental Aesthetic can propose the following problems:

1.

No Explain what the subjective representation of the extension, quite
apart of all objectivity.

2. ยบ Why this representation is in our soul.

3. No. Why would a be one, must contain within itself the representation of the manifold, and a
being unextended, that of the extension.

4. ยบ do we move from the ideal extension to the real.

5. ยบ determine the extent to which the extension can be applied to
what is said of other sensations to which they are regarded as phenomena
of our soul, no such object on the outside, and no further correspondence
with the outside world that the ratio of effects to causes.

[126.] What is the subjective representation of the extension, irrespective of any objectivity?
An act of our soul: there is no further explanation: who knows what it takes, who not I have not, except
for higher intelligence, which may know what is such representation, not experience it just
like us.

[127.] Reached that can not explain why our soul is in the representation the extension, might
as well ask why we are intelligent and sensitive. For us there is no a priori reason, but such
has made us the Creator. Such representation is can be found in us, and is in effect, so be
it experience, but that experience Internal is the limit of philosophy
above there is nothing for us that is the subject of immediate observation.

Reasoning leads to the discovery of a cause that has brought us; phenomenon but not a root of
the phenomenon of experience.

[128.] Why would a be one, must contain the representation of the manifold, and a being unextended,
that of the extension? This amounts to raise the issue of intelligence that through what is
intelligence, is one and simple, and capable of perceiving the multiplicity and composition.

[129.]
Why do we move from the ideal extension to the real? by a natural
impulse irresistible confirmed with the consent of reason, as I have
shown in Volume I, and also in this, when dealing with the objectivity
of the senses.

[131.] According to this latter problem is resolved, the question is resolved in favor or against idealists.
If applicable to the extension, which is said of the other sensations, idealism triumphs, the
real world, if there is a being that has nothing similar to what we think.

So that in dealing with feelings (Lib. II, Chapters VII, VIII and IX, and Lib. III, chap. IV)
evidence that the extension is a real thing, regardless of our feelings; and I also explained
(Lib. II, cap. VIII, and Lib. III, chap. VI) represents the multiplicity we and continuity: this
is enough to combat idealism, as well as to be understood to some
extent, what the extension, but as in those places had not been even
discussed the idea of ??space, closely linked to the extension, it
was not possible enter another line of rising above considerations
that the phenomenal order, you look to the extension under a transcendental
aspect, examining themselves, ignoring all relations with the world
of appearances.

This is what I intend to do in chapters following.

[132.] Entered a very rough terrain: it is to distinguish things which are of apparent than real
closure, the understanding, that we always walk accompanied by sensible representations, must
do without them, what amounts to be some struggle with a condition
subject to which it is naturally in the course of their functions.

CHAPTER XIX.

CONSIDERATIONS ON THE EXTENSION, abstracted from the phenomena.

[133.] It is not long be alone, but a group of beings need the extension contains parts, some out
of others, and therefore different, the bond between them is not
the identity as well as unite, represent different, because nothing
binds to himself.

According to this it seems that the extension itself, as distinct from the extended things, not
nothing fake extension as a being whose very nature can be investigated, is delivered to a
game of imagination.

The extension is not identified with any of the united beings, considered in particular, but
it seems the result of their union. This is verified, and suppose the extension generated unextended
dot, spot or extensive, but infinitely divisible. If we assume unextended points, it is clear
that the extension is not them, then, that extensive and inextensible, are contradictory things.
If the means extensive, nor identify with the extension: because
it includes the idea of ??a whole, and no everything is identical
with any of its parts: in a line of four feet wide, no identity between
the same line and each of its parts equal to one foot.

Just as we consider these parts of a foot, we can pretend of an inch, and divide to infinity,
in no case be verified that some is equal to another child that is made, then any extension
is identical with taken extensive beings in particular.

[134.] Wrapping extension the idea of ??multiplicity, it seems that the extension should look,
not as a being in itself but as a result of the union of many things, but what is such a result?
is what we call continuity, we have seen (Lib. II, Cap. VIII) be
the extension that is not enough variety.

This comes in the idea of ??number, and yet the number does not represent us an extended thing.
Also designed a set acts, powers, activities, substances, beings of various kinds, without conceive
extension, however, that in these concepts enters the manifold.

[135.] Then continuity is needed to complete the idea of ??the extension. What is continuity? being
a party outside of others, but together. But what means out, what
mean together?

Inside and out, together and separately, involving extension, assume the same you want to
explain, the thing defined in the definition comes under the same concept needs to be defined.
Indeed, when looking what is the continuity of the extension, he asks, what is to be in and
out, and together and separately.

[136.] Should not forget this observation not to be satisfied with the explanations is found in
almost all books. Define the extension by the words in and out, no ie nothing in philosophical,
is expressed in different words the same thing. No doubt that if this is simply the phenomenon
record is as simple to use this language, but the philosophy is very little satisfaction. This
is a practical explanation; but not speculative. The same is true of the definition of the
extension in space or places. What is the extension? the occupation of a place - but what is
the place? - a portion of the finished space for certain areas: - What is space? - this extension
they believe placed the bodies, or the ability to receive .-- But even assuming alleged the existence
of space as an absolute thing, what is in the same bodies of ability
to fill the space?

Who does not see a thing explained itself, there a circle is not out? The extension of space
is explained by the ability to receive; the extension of bodies by the ability to fill: there
is always intact the idea of ??extension: not defined: it is expressed with different words
that mean the same thing.

To assume the existence of space as an absolute thing, nothing moves forward, but also this
assumption is entirely gratuitous. Taking the extension of space as a term reference by which to
explain the extension of bodies, is also to found what they assume to be sought.

If these words, inside and out, we explain by referring to various designated points or appointed
in the space, we incur the same error, we define the very thing itself;
because the same difficulty we have with respect to space to see what
is inside and outside and together and separately, or adjacent and
distant.

If we assume for the extension of space as an absolute thing, and try to explain to her about
other extensions, we are the illusion more complete: it is to explain the extension itself, the space
needed be explained as the others: Terminate presupposing is the question to be resolved.

[137.] The extension with respect to its size, seems to be independent of the extended thing,
in one place. With absolute firmness, can present itself an extension with the same dimensions,
in spite of continuous change extended thing. Assuming the passage of a series of objects for
a fixed visual field, extended things constantly vary, and the extension is the same. Suppose
a canvas that will run behind a window we have in sight: the thing extensive continuum is different,
because that part of the canvas we see at the moment A is different from that seen at time
B, and yet the extension in size, unchanged. So much to surfaces, it is not difficult to apply
the same doctrine to volumes. A place can be filled on an infinite number of subjects, leaving the
same volume capacity. In the identity of the extension designed, have no part of the vessel
walls, because in the same place that it occupies, can be placed
infinite vessels of the same extension: the surrounding air, or another
body that surrounds the walls either vessel, it has nothing to do
with the identity of the extension, because the air can changed, and
indeed are constantly changing, but the volume is altered.

[138.] The fixity of the size, notwithstanding the variety of objects, there is no evidence in
for the pure subjectivity of the extension, even when involving objects indiscernible that have
changed, otherwise will result, which would prove the range of dimensions for objectivity of
them: and therefore the argument against opponents twist a with the same force. This peer shows that
there are objects that can cause different similar impression, and that we can form an idea of
??a particular dimension, or a figure, regardless of the particular object that corresponds
to or may correspond. No one doubts that representation of the dimensions is in us, no need to refer
to anything particular: the question is whether these dimensions
are made, and what is its nature, regardless of their relationship
with us.

[139.] If we accept that continuity is not designed external object,
or space pure or in the body What reduces the corporeal world? to
a set of beings that a way or another, they exert their action upon
our being and in a certain order.

Note that the difficulties are objecting against the continued phenomenal held not are undone by
appealing to the needs of the organization 's body to be sensitive. Who say: how can external beings
exert action upon us, if they themselves have no continuity with that face us? May influence
how our bodies? manifestaria they have not understood the status of the matter: it is evident
that if we strip the world external real continuity, leaving only the phenomenal, she will be
deprived of our same organization, which is but a part of this universe. Here is a relationship
reciprocal, a kind of parallel events and facts, which are explained and completed versa. If the
universe is a set of beings that act upon us in a certain order, our organization will be another
set of beings who will be influenced in the same order; or can not be explained as any two things,
or explain one explains the other: so that this order is fixed and constant, and correspondence
the same, nothing is altered, regardless Regardless of the assumptions
adopted for the explanation of the phenomenon.

[140.] Also note that in this part of philosophy, which is known reality
is, to pass the tests to explain the phenomenon, and not be in contradiction
with the order of our ideas.

One could object to those who remove the external world or phenomenal qualities apparent continuity,
destroying the geometry that is based on the idea of ??continuous phenomenal but this difficulty
falter at their base, because it assumes that the geometric idea is phenomenal, when it is transcendental.
We have seen that the idea of ??extension is not a feeling, but a
pure idea, and that imaginary representations that awareness, not
the idea, but forms of the same idea is coated.

[141.] A great extension presents us with a certain size, and geometry ignores of all sizes. The theorems
and problems relate to the figures in general, regardless absolute size, and when this comes into
consideration, it is only in relative terms. Into triangles of equal bases, the greatest height will
be larger in area: here the word more in terms of size, it is true, but not to any absolute
size, but purely relative question, rather than the magnitude of the relation of magnitudes. Thus the theorem
check, whether we speak of triangles of a huge extension, as infinitesimal triangles. After
completely ignores the geometry of the magnitudes considered as phenomena, and only uses them
as the sensible representation perception may help to intellectual.

[142.] This is an important truth that will show up more and more to fight the system Condillac in
the treaty of ideas, where I will show that even those we have of bodies, are or may be a
feeling transformed. According to these principles, the geometry is the science of an order of beings,
which sensitizes pure ideas in a phenomenal representation. This representation is necessary,
provided that the science of geometry is to be submitted by to this
phenomenon, but in itself and considered the science in all its purity,
not necessary that representation.

[143.] Lest this seem so strange doctrine, and this more acceptable, ask if the pure spirits
possess the science of geometry, it is true that yes, otherwise serious must conclude that
God, the author of the universe, to whom with profound truth has been called the great mathematician,
does not know geometry. Now, does God have such representations we envision the extension? No:
these representations are a kind of continuation sensitivity, which is not in God, are the exercise
of the internal sense, not is in God. These are the representations to which St. Thomas calls
phantasmata, which according to the same holy Doctor, there are neither in God nor in any
pure spirit, even in disembodied soul. It is then possible, and there is actually the science
of geometry, without the sensible representation, then there is no objection to distinguish
two extensions, a phenomenal, a real one, not that it be destroyed or reality or the phenomenon,
provided that is left between the two due correspondence so that the thread that connects our being
with other beings is not broken, putting in contradiction of our
nature conditions with objects that are offered (IV).

CHAPTER XX.

IF absolute magnitude.

[144.] This doctrine will make it more plausible if we look above
all perceptions to purely intellectual on the extension, it reduces
knowledge of order and relationships.

In the eyes of science, even geometric, it seems that nothing is absolute: the absolute in all
With regard to the extension, is a rude imagination, that the observation of these phenomena
enough to destroy.

In order of appearance, there is no absolute magnitude, all are relative even We formed an idea
of ??magnitude, but with regard to another that serves as a measure.
What is absolute is the number, not the extension: the absolute magnitude
as numbered but not itself. In an area of ??four square feet are enclosed
in two ideas: the number of the parties to respect, and class of these
parts: the number is a fixed idea, but class of these parts is purely
relative