 Lola had sent him a sarcastic smile that you just exasperated. He went at the door.

- I am sorry to have bothered you - you said coldly when they were away.

Raimundo looked surprised.

When no one heard them used to tutearle.

- Annoyance?

None.

- Yes, because apparently, you were very comfortable next to this lady ....

And not being able longer to restrain his impulses, he said dully:

- Come with me.

It took the dining room where tables were already waiting for the
guests.

There in the hollow a balcony, vented his anger. Filled him with insults and hath broken relationships
definitively. He came to shake her violently by the arm. Alcazar was so stunned, so terrified,
who failed to respond. This saved him. Seeing her face painted broken where pain and surprise,
Clementina could not fail to understand that anger was cheating. In no Raimundo had been no intention
of flirting. A little calm, acknowledged the apology that gave the order.

- If just to talk to you is what I get close to it.

- Ah! Why talk about me?

... Look, from now on do not talk about me. Simply I want.

The servants who went there, looked on the corner of my eye and winked
malicious.

When leaving Pepa Frias encountered. The buxom widow was very well dressed, had heard endless
compliments. Foreign princess wore the time of Charles III, silver lama recamos with gold
and blue velvet cloak. A square neckline could be seen all too clearly Pepa what must consider
more interesting in person, judging by the predilection that it showed.

- Girl, I have a hungry wolf - came in saying -. When you have just
opened the buffet? Ah!

"So you are going through the corners? Prudence, Clementina, prudence! ... Daughter, I can not
wait more, give me something to eat, or I fall.

Clementina was laughing at a corner and made him serve some dishes.

Alcázar became the rooms very happy, but even by the violent trembling emotion that his mistress
had actually experience. Never seen her so angry.

Her friendship with Pepa was riveted from the scene we have described
earlier.

The widow was convinced that the salvation of his fortune was based on this love and tried to
promote it. Thanks to him, was rescued and gradually, a large part
of it.

The rest did not hurried. Da knew.

Carmen had a Will in favor of his stepdaughter, and even though the
lady had improved somewhat, was certain death in a short time.

Doctors it had discovered a tumor.

They dared not operate because of its extreme weakness.

A lot Clementina made her grace the ease, even better, the cynicism of Pepa. Both admirably understood.
Both were chulapas, two manolas born too late and in condition little wealthy to their social nature.
Of course, it was much more Pepa legitimate Clementine who did not carry the mass of blood: veniale
hobby.

- Look, Clemen, you're decrying - I said it, while voraciously devoured
a piece of turkey in aspic -.

Leave that boy is not worth a small dog .... To whim has already been enough.

- What do you know what it's worth? - Clementina replied laughing.

- On the traces, the daughter .... Dulce seems to be made in the Alliance. It takes more than
a year in relations you, and still gets red as a turkey when you order.

- Well, that's precisely what I like.

Pepa shrugged indifferently.

- Really?

For me it would be a calamity, my dear.

- And Arbós, how he behaves?

- This is an utter fool, you know -
said with his mouth full - but at least has facade.

In saying that he is a great man is thrown headlong into the water
for you .... You do not know .... I placed in the Ministry more than
two dozen relatives .... Then glad to have some political influence
and that the deputies to be pampered.

Yesterday, in fact, I had a visit Mauritius Chamber, who wants at all costs be undersecretary.
It seems sure that be, will give his daughter Urreta.

- I hate politics .... Do you know that Irene is really cute with his suit jacket? ...

- Ps! vistosilla ....

- No, no, really cute. Where walks her husband, that I have not seen more than to get in?

- Does your husband? Valiente rascal is her husband! - Exclaimed angrily raising his head -. Oh
what trouble, dear, what big trouble as I have on me - he said with his mouth full.

- Maria Huerta? - Clementina asked in a confidential tone.

- Same - muttered the widow, staring at the turkey. Then Curling soon: - It is a rogue you know? a
scoundrel, who can not even keep the decorum of their women. Most of the days waiting at the
exit of San Pascual and the accompanying foot to his house.

In the theater does not take away the twins off. A mess! Although a bad husband, who has dignity.
And my daughter Panfila, crazy, lost him. You have seen what asshole! Does nothing but mourn and
ask jealousy .... What more do you want to see it that monigotillo humiliated! ... If I were
in your case I will tell him! ... I put him on a contraption seguidita in his head that would
not fit through that door.

The exaltation of his spirit kept him from swallowing nicely.

- God bless you, daughter - he concluded by saying rising -.

See if this heart is still for a while.

Pepa wanted to suffer from a broken heart that he was only calmed by eating.

A few minutes after leaving two friends in the dining room, Clementina gave the necessary orders and
the buffet was opened solemnly. Real people first entered accompanied by his servants and
masters of the house. Remaining Salabert had his dinner. The large dining room ceiling coffered
ceiling like a blaze of gold. The flowers of vivid colors, exotic fruits, the silverware, glassware,
under the powerful gas lamps flickered like heaven star, producing a strong glare. The servants
with coat and white wig, waiting motionless against the wall, stiff and solemn. In the two heads
of huge burning room oak logs in fireplaces paths carved oak reredos, whose ornaments almost
reached the ceiling. All the dishes that were on the table had come from Paris accompanied
a retinue of servants and scullions. It exempted the fish, which
came from the Cantabrian and a pudding evening arrived in London.

They were mostly stiffs. However, there hot consommé you asked.

Real people were very few moments in the dining room.

So I rushed out in it the wave of the crowd with hard little ceremony. The halls were silent
on power of the servants, that with regularity and precision of soldiers changed the spark plugs
next extinct by new ones, while the dining room resounded with the ringing of the dishes and cups,
the talk and laughter of the guests.

Cobo Ramirez left for a while leaving Esperancita held by its rival, to sit in a corner table
in front of a wheel and eat a few pieces of boeuf d'Hambourg and ham. Of course, Ramon took
advantage of this relief to highlight the contrast between his frugality poetic and prosaic
Cobo gluttony, until he stood feet Esperancita crossly telling her
friend Paz, who was on the other side:

- Well, I like men who eat
a lot.

- Me too - said Pacita -.

At least indicates that they are sick stomach.

- I do not I have not - was quick to say the councilman, suffocated
and annoyed by the attitude hostile to the two girlfriends had been
placed.

Peace was content to smile contemptuously.

The general Patiño, tired of sending deadly projectiles Calderón's wife without the square give
cognizance even had lifted the siege to lay siege to the Marquise
Ujo that the grenades had capitulated first opening its doors to the
enemy.

However, general, and strategically accomplished, never lost sight of Mariana, waiting for any
incident favorable to fall back on it. Was said in the newspapers
that was to be appointed Minister of War.

This charge, of course, would give it more prestige and authority to enter the alarm anywhere.
The Marquise of Ujo Turkish wore suited her so well that, by Alcantara, wanted to let go a shot.
Her languor was so that night, barely had the strength to articulate the words. At every step the
illustrious general was seen in the need to help in such daunting
task.

While gnawing with their teeth rickety some pasta otherwise they would not admit his stomach,
also a little damaged, lecturing, rather, exhaled a series of exclamations about certain novel
recently published in France.

- What a scene! ... Ah!

But what thing so beautiful ... When she says: "Enter the fourth
if you want: you can stain my body but my soul ...."

Oh, and when going to the place of grief and get the bullet that was addressed to her husband!
... How very cute!

...

Pepe Castro snails (pardon the metaphor) around Lola Madariaga.

This he had evil laugh what happened a while ago, when Clementina suddenly appeared where she
was with Alcazar. He spoke as if he had pulled the gallant to her friend, protector accent and
disdain that would have made a leap to the proud daughter of Salabert
if by chance the I had heard.

- Poor Clemen!

It's getting old, right? Which figure has yet!

Is clear that tightening force, and sooner or later it's going to hurt, but anyway .... The face
does not correspond to the figure, do not you think?

Especially now that he is tarnishing the skin of a horrific way.

It has always been the face very hard.

And while his eyes looked clear and smooth Castro with such sweetness,
you really was for indigestion.

He had always been told (and it was true) that his face was very
sweet.

To further enhance this quality put stupid face.

Castro nodded to all, both flatter and by the ill will that had to Clementina. Lola was not
interested, but following his break with it was a bit comforted celebration: although this
had no small part a desire not to appear defeated the eyes of the
world.

- And you think you really love that kid looks like a schoolgirl
Sacred Heart?

- Go figure!

Clementina boasts much original. This latest adventure proves it
.... Look what he is casting glances tender baby from afar.

Raimundo, standing there in the end of one of the tables, not take his eyes off his beloved, who was
back and forth from one place to another by preventing the desires
of those who most wanted guests please.

From time to time sent him a faint smile carrying intelligence the young to the seventh heaven.

Pepa
Frias, if not eat because I was gorged, pinched in fruits and sweets, taking behind his chair
to Calderón, Pinedo, Fuentes and three or four gentlemen thugs throw enjoyed in the language.
Not the bit, in fact, the fresh widow. He defended himself admirably of stopping and answering all
the shots with skill.

- Where does it say you have gout, Pepa?

- On foot, Pinedo, feet ... where you have the talent.

- Even if you insult me, I wish I could remove that drop ... Having even a you drop!

- Few thanks! It would be a drop of aromatic essence - Minister of State said a sweet sick.

- What do you know, man, if you have not gotten the nose rather than the chorus of both sexes?

The
counselor blushed. Everyone laughed at the reference.

- But how cruel you are, Pepa! - Sources said still laughing -. Those
who are not here We know nothing ... (I say, gentlemen, I speak for
myself), odor, color or flavor you; but we do not disenfranchise you
figure out something that is tasty and tender.

- Tender? ... Are
you in an unfortunate error.

- I say I see ...-- said bringing his
face to the lush bosom of the widow ...-- Y by the way: what brings
you on that pin? Is it a family portrait?

The pin was a monkey.

-
No. Fuentes - replied angrily - is a mirror.

The whole group came
a spontaneous laughter he brought the heads of those who were near.

Fuentes
was shortened for a moment, but as a man of genius who was known to
recover.

- I will be mono, Pepa, but you're really cute.

- Bravo,
Fuentes, bravo! - Said Calderon, who, as a man exclusively due and
have, caused astonishment any appropriate sentence.

The shooting
continued even after leaving the majority of people in the halls.
The group was reinforced with some Pollastre. This was the reason
I get up Pepa abruptly after saying,

- I'm going. For my sake you
are to scandalize these beings tender and naive.

Chickens protested
uproar.

Populated shortly after the dance halls again retired real
people. Was to dismiss the same ceremony, that is, the serried ranks
at the door of the hall, the Royal March by the orchestra and the
dismissal of the owners until the staircase.

Clementina breathed
freely. A slow pace, enjoying the pleasure of having completed a task
hard, went through the halls directing his laughing eyes everywhere,
leaving flow her lips nice little words to the friends with whom stumbled.
That splendid dancing, maybe the most magnificent that had ever taken
a particular in Spain, his work was almost exclusively. His father
had supplied the money, but her activity, taste, artifice. Listening
the congratulations to all the step murmured, lulled into a heady
satisfaction esteem. Happiness reminded her of love, its indispensable
complement. Acometióle a keen desire to change with Raimundo, alone,
some tender words of affection, some fleeting caresses. And buscóle
with eyes in the crowd.

Raymond had wandered all night through the
halls almost always alone. He had expected the dance with childish
desire, promising pleasures live and ignored. I had never attended
one of these brilliant celebrations of aristocratic society. The reality
did not correspond to their hope, as always happens. All that vain
ostentation, luxury scandal unfolded before their view, instead of
stroking his pride wounded him cruelly. Never felt so alien in world
that had long frequented. Your thoughts, directed towards the melancholy,
representáronle his poor home, where his fault very soon going to
miss it necessary, modesty of his holy mother, who did not hesitate
to perform the simplest tasks of the house and his innocent sister,
that she had learned to be economical and hardworking