 The country lacks
military spirit. We are a warrior people, and it will be easy to beat the English, weakened by a false
conception of life.

The doctor paused and added:

- We also have the internal corruption of our enemies, their lack of unity. God help us to sow confusion
in these hateful people. There will be many days without you see his hand. The revolution is
about to explode in France while the war.

The people Paris barricades in the streets, will play the anarchy
of the Commune.

Tunisia Algiers and other possessions are to revolt against France.

Argensola believed the case aggressively smiling with incredulity.

- I repeat - Hartrott insisted - that this country is going to know rpm and insurrection here in
their colonies. I know what I mean ... Russia will also be your inner revolution, revolution red
flag, forcing the tsar to ask grace to his knees.

You only have to read Recent newspaper strikes in St. Petersburg, demonstrations by strikers under
the pretext of the visit of President Poincare ... England will be rejected by the colonies requests
for support. India is to rise up against it and believes Egypt is time of empowerment.

July seemed impressed by these statements, made with a doctoral security.

Almost was angry with the unbeliever Argensola, still staring insolently and repeated Professor
eyes: "Are you crazy: crazy with pride."

The man must have serious reasons to make such prophecies of misfortune. His presence in Paris, so it
was inexplicable Desnoyers, gave his words a mysterious authority.

- But the nations will defend - he argued his cousin -. Do not be so easy victory as you think.

-
Yes, you will make. The fight is going to be tough.

It seems that in recent years France has been concerned of his army. Find some resistance,
the more difficult victory, but defeat ... You do not know how far
the offensive power of Germany.

Nobody knows for sure beyond its borders. If our enemies known in all its intensity, fall knees,
regardless of useless sacrifice.

There was a long silence. Julius von Hartrott seemed oblivious. The memory elements accumulated force
by race plunged him into a kind of mystical worship.

- The preliminary victory - he said suddenly - for some time that we have obtained. Our enemies
hate us, and yet we imitate. Everything bears the mark of Germany is sought in the world.
The same countries that try to resist our weapons to copy our methods in their universities
and admire our theories, even those who did not achieve success in Germany. Many times we laughed
with us, as the Roman augurs, in assessing the servility with we are ... And certainly do not
want to recognize our superiority!

Argensola first approved eye and gesture Hartrott words. Exactly what saying the world was a victim
of the "German superstition." Intellectual cowardice, the Fear the fort, was admiring all of Germanic
origin, without any discrimination, collectively, by the brightness, the gold mixed with the powder.
The so-called Latinos to give this admiration, they doubted their own strengths to irrational
pessimism. They were the first to order his death. And the proud Germans had no more than repeat
the words of these pessimistic to assert itself in the belief of their superiority.

With the passion southern jumping without gradation from one extreme to another, many Latinos
had proclaimed that in the future world there was no room for Latin
American societies, in full agony, adding that Germany remains latent
only the civilizing forces.

The French, they yell at each other, incurring the greatest exaggerations,
not realizing that there who listened to the other side of the doors
had been repeated for many years that France was in decay and marched
to death.

Why then are outraged at the contempt of enemies ... How they were not to participate in their
beliefs! ...

The teacher, misinterpreting the silent approval of the young man
who until then He had listened with hostile smile, added:

- The time
has come to trial in France on German culture, implanting it as victors.

Here

Argensola interrupted: "What if the German culture did not exist,
as stated by a German celebrity?

"I needed to contradict this pedantic that overwhelmed with pride. Hartrott almost jumped from
his seat to hear such a question.

- German What is this?

- Nietzsche!

The professor looked at him with pity. Nietzsche had said to the men: "Be tough," affirming that
"a good war hallows every cause."

Bismarck had praised them, had, taken part in the war of 70, had glorified the German when he
spoke of "laughing lion" and "Blond beast." But Argensola listened to the quiet of a safe ground
to tread. Oh peaceful afternoons reading by the fireplace in the study, listening to the rain
hitting the Glazed glasses! ...

- The philosopher said that - said - and says different things, like everyone think a lot. His doctrine
is pride, but of individual pride, not pride of nation or race. He spoke always against "the deceitful
trickery of the races."

Argensola remembered word for word to his philosopher.

A culture, as it was' unity style in every aspect of life. " Science is not culture. A great
learning can be accompanied by a great barbarity, the lack of style or chaotic confusion of
all styles.

Germany, according to Nietzsche, it had its own culture gap style. "The French - he said - are
at the head of an authentic culture and fruitful whatever its value, and to date all have taken
it. "His hatred was focused about their own country. "I can not bear to live in Germany. The spirit
of servility and mezquinería penetrates everywhere ... I do not think more than in French culture,
and everything else called educated Europe seems like a mistake.

The rare cases of high culture that I found in Germany were of French origin. "

- You know - continued Argensola - which, to quarrel with Wagner by excess Germanism in his art,
he proclaimed the need mediterranizar music. His ideal was a culture throughout Europe, but
Latin based.

Julius von Hartrott replied disdainfully, saying the same words in Spanish. The men who think
much say many things. Moreover, Nietzsche was a poet who had died in full dementia, and not among
the scholars of the university.

His fame had wrought abroad ... And not reoccupied most of the young,
as if he had evaporated After his daring objections.

All her attention now focused on Desnoyers.

- This country - continued - carries death in his gut.

How do I doubt that will arise in him revolution just war breaks out?

... You have not witnessed the upheavals of the boulevard Cailloux plea process. Reactionaries and revolutionaries
have been insulted for three days. I have seen how challenged with shouts and songs, how they
beat in the middle of street. And this division of opinion will be accentuated even more when
our troops crossing borders. It will be civil war.

Antimilitarists claim, believing that it is in the hands of his government to avoid the crash ...
Country degenerated democracy and inferiority its celtic triumphant, anxious of all freedoms!
... We are the only people free land, because we obey.

The paradox was smiling to July. Germany only free people! ...

- That's right - he said vigorously von Hartrott -. We have the freedom that befits a great nation: economic
and intellectual freedom.

- What political freedom? ...

The teacher greeted this question with a gesture of contempt.

- Political freedom!

... Only decadent peoples and unruly, the inferior races eager to equality and democratic confusion,
talk about political freedom. The Germans did not the need. We are a nation of masters, which recognizes
the hierarchy and want to be commanded by those born superior. We have the organizational genius.

This
was, according to the doctor, the great secret German and the Germanic race, to take over the
world, would involve all of its discovery. The villages would be organized so that give the individual
the maximum of performance for the company. Men regimented for all kinds of productions, obedient
as machines to a senior management and giving the maximum amount of work: this is the perfect
state. Freedom was an idea purely negative if it was accompanied by a positive concept were
that he should help.

The two friends listened with astonishment the description of the future that gave the world the
superiority Germanic. Each individual subject to intensive production, as well as a piece of garden
that you want to get the owner the highest number of vegetables ... The man turned into a mechanism
... no unnecessary operations that do not provide immediate results
... And the people that proclaimed this ideal was the same grim philosophers
and dreamers, who had given to contemplation and reflection first
in your life!

...

Hartrott returned to insist on the inferiority of the enemies of their race. To fight was necessary
faith, an unshakable confidence in the superiority of their own forces.

-
At this time, in Berlin all accept the war, all believe certain victory,
while here!

... I'm not saying that the French feel fear. Have a history of bravery that galvanizes at
certain times. But they are sad, they guess that would make any sacrifice to avoid what they
are coming. The people shall shout with excitement at the first moment her screaming whenever
they have to their doom.

The upper classes do not have confidence in the future; silent or lie, but they all guess the premonition
of disaster. Yesterday I spoke with your father. Is French and is rich. It shows his fury upon
the governments of his country because he engage in conflicts in Europe to defend remote villages
and uninteresting. He complains exalted patriots, who have kept open
the gap between Germany and France, preventing reconciliation.

Alsace and Lorraine says are not worth the cost in men war and money
... Acknowledges our greatness: it ensures that we have progressed
so fast, they can never reach other peoples ... And as your father
think many others: all those who are satisfied with their welfare
and are afraid to lose.

Believe me, a country that doubts and fears war is due before the first battle.

July showed some concern, as if to cut the conversation.

- Leave my father. Today he says that because the war is not yet a fact, and he needs to contradict
indignant with all that is within his reach. Tomorrow might tell you otherwise ... My father is
a Latino.

The professor looked at his watch. Should go: he still had many things to do before go to the
station.

The Germans established in Paris had fled in large flocks, circulate among them as a secret.
That evening were the last ones to depart still remained in the capital significantly.

- I came to see family affection, because it was my duty to give a
warning.

You are a foreigner and nothing holds you back here. If you want to witness a great historical
event, stay. But You'd better leave. The war is going to be hard, very hard, and if Paris tries
to resist as before, will witness terrible things. The offensive capabilities have changed dramatically.

Desnoyers
made a gesture of indifference.

- The same as your father - continued the professor -. Last night, he and I had answered your
family Similarly. Even my mother prefers to stay beside her sister, saying that the Germans are
very good, very civilized and nothing to be feared of them when they succeed.

The doctor seemed to resent this good opinion.

- They do not realize
what is modern war, know that our generals have studied the art of
reducing the enemy quickly and used it with a relentless approach.

Terror is the only means, disturbs the intelligence of the opponent,
paralyzing its action, powder resistance.

The more fierce as the war will be shorter, is heavily penalize proceed humanely. And Germany
is going to be cruel with a cruelty never seen, not to more protracted struggle.

He had left his seat, requiring a cane and straw hat.

I looked Argensola with hostility. The teacher, passing by him, only made a dismissive motion rigid
head.

Then he went to the door, accompanied by his cousin. The farewell was brief.

- I repeat my advice. If you do not love the danger, leave. I may be wrong, and this people,
convinced that his defense is useless, it delivers good ... Anyway,
soon we'll see.

I will be happy to return to Paris when the flag float over the Empire Eiffel Tower. Case of
three or four weeks. In early September, for sure.

France was about to disappear, for the doctor, was certain death.

- Left Paris - added - will the French, because a people is not easily
removed; but they take their rightful place.

We will rule the world: they will take care inventing fashion, make life pleasant abroad to
visit them, and in the intellectual field will encourage them to educate beautiful actresses,
produce entertaining novels and run funny comedy ... Nothing more.

Desnoyers laughed as he shook hands with his cousin, pretending to take his words as paradoxes.

-
I'm serious - continued Hartrott -. The last time the French Republic as a nation important
has sounded. I've seen up close, and does not deserve another chance. Disorder and lack of
confidence above; enthusiasm sterile below.

Turning his head he saw the smile again Argensola.

- And we understand a little of this - he said aggressively -. We are used to examine people
who were, to study fiber by fiber, and we can know at a glance the psychology of those still
living.

The Bohemian thought he saw a surgeon talking to sufficiency of the
mysteries of the will to a body.

What I knew of life this pedantic documents interpreter dead! ...

When the door was closed to meet his friend, who became discouraged. Argensola and was not
crazy to Dr. Julius von Hartrott.

- What a brute! - Said lifting the arms -. And to think that these producers live loose of dark
error ... Who would you say are of the same land that produced Kant, the pacifist, the serene Goethe,
Beethoven ... Many years have believed that they formed a nation
of dreamers and philosophers busy working unselfishly for all men
...

The farce of a German geographer revived in her memory as an
explanation: "The Germany is a two heads.

With a head dreams and poet, while the other thinks and running. "

Desnoyers showed desperate certainty of war. This teacher seemed more frightening than the counselor
and the other German bourgeoisie had met on the ship. His sadness was not only selfish thought that the
disaster was about to interfere carrying out their wishes and those of Margarita. Suddenly
discovered, at this time of uncertainty, I loved to France. She saw her father's homeland
and the country of the Great Revolution ... He, although there had never mixed in the struggles
of politics, a Republican and had some laughed many times to friends who adored kings and emperors,
considering this as a sign of distinction.

Argensola tried revive him.

- Who knows? This is a country of surprises. The Frenchman has to be seen at the time it seeks
remedy their lack of foresight. Whatever you say your cousin the Barbarian, no enthusiasm,
no order ... Worse than we had seen the living days ahead of Valmy. All Disorganized as the only
defense battalions of workers and peasants who first took a rifle.

And yet, the old monarchies of Europe did not know how to get out for twenty years of these warriors
improvised.

V

Which shows the four horsemen

The two friends lived in the days following a hectic life, considerably enlarged by the speed with
which events were happening. Every hour spawned a novelty - the More often false - that stirred
the harsh opinion sway. As soon as the danger of appeared averted war, and circulated the
word that the mobilization was ordered to within a few minutes.
Twenty-four hours represented the concerns, anxiety, nervous exhaustion
one year normal. And what the situation was worsened by the uncertainty,
the expected event feared and yet invisible, anxiety about the danger
never stops coming.

History overwhelmed stretched out their banks,
succeeding the facts as waves a flood. Austria declared war against
Serbia, while the diplomats of the great powers were still working
to avoid conflict. The stretched grid around the planet vibrating
incessantly in the deep ocean and on the relief of the continents,
providing hope or pessimism. Russia mobilized a portion of his army.
Germany he had his troops ready pretext of maneuvers, declared a state
of 'threat war. " The Austrians, without waiting for the efforts of
diplomacy, began the bombardment Belgrade. William II, fearing that
the intervention of the powers to resolve the conflict between the
Tsar and the Emperor of Austria, forcing the course of events by stating
war against Russia. Then, Germany was isolated by cutting the railroads
and telegraph lines dough in the mystery its invasion forces.

France
witnessed the avalanche of events, words and expressions sober enthusiasm.
A severe cold resolution encouraged all inside. Two generations had
come into the world getting to open the eyes of the reason the image
of a war inevitably would come. Nobody wanted: the imposing adversaries
... But all accepted it, with the firm intention of fulfilling their
duty.

Paris streets during the day sulking with their concerns. Only
a few groups exalted patriots, following the three colors of the flag,
passed by the square Concordia cheering before the statue of Strasbourg.
The people were addressed in the streets amicably. They all knew without
having ever seen. The eyes attracted the eyes, the smiles seemed to
catch each other on the sympathy of a common idea. Women were sad,
but spoke loud to hide his emotions. In the long twilight of summer
boulevards were filled with crowds. Converged to the outlying neighborhoods
of the city center, As the days and revolutions remote. Groups came
together to form an agglomeration without end, from which emerged
shouting and singing. The demonstrations went through the center under
the electric lights had just ignited. The parade runs through mid
night, and the national flag appeared on andante crowd escorted by
the flags of other peoples