 Would he who was dying? There are deaths
that seem resurrections in the hope that involve funeral in horror ... The door was open.
Amparo entered step by step, fearing to find strange faces, and reached that room, crowded
with furniture before and now almost empty ... At first sight casting to see that there had
been the pawnbroker.

He gave the girl a few steps inside the room and stood waiting for someone to come out. Felt
movement and voices in the interior of the house. Suddenly he appeared. I was so transformed
that hardly knew him at first sight, for he had grown a beard, which was thick, strong and
curly, and the life of the field had been effective and rapid health agent that rude nature.
The face was full of vigor, and his eyes had all the brightness the best of times. He wore brown
cloth jacket and hat on his head skin. Both clothes hung down so well that it almost beautiful.
Rather than a man in disguise, was a man who had dropped his disguise, appearing in his own
right side. Seeing to Amparito was delighted, but certainly something
happened that bothered him to express his satisfaction.

"Already here - he said quietly -. I expected ... Glad I have ...
It's your fault.

Talk now and I can understand your ... What, do you wonder at my
figure?

I have the look of most atrocious barbarian you've seen in your life.
Am I afraid?

".

- Fear not exactly ... but ...

- If you are shaking ... Be still, I do not like people ... Sit and Stay there.

He left quickly and went back a little while to rummage in a drawer
of the dresser.

Three or four times she saw him enter and exit Amparo wearing or bringing something and did
not succeed to explain the reason for these trips.

"Excuse me - said in one of those appearances, taking out a blanket and tearing it into strips
-. By coming here I found the poor Celedonia so lost his rheumatism, which I think that we will
...».

Then clearly human groans were heard, announcing brightly pain.

"Poor girl - said Polo -. I have not wanted to send her to hospital. Who is to care for her
if I do not care? ".

At the time she was alone, Amparo thought it
prudent to close the door of the house because her open, we considered
sold in the mansion of sadness, fear and pain.

"Here I am again -
that said, reappearing in the room with a handful of cotton left on
the dresser -. Unable to move. I had to give it a spin on the bed.
I I give the medicine ... Refuses to take anything, as I do not give
it. We also put bands in the knees and ointments and poultices ...
Last night I have not slept a wink. Not a moment stopped screaming
and calling me. Two days ago I arrived, and here I am without a moment's
rest. But I'm strong, very strong ... See ...».

To demonstrate his
strength, Amparo grabbed her waist before she could stop and lifted
like a feather