 From there, after holding always a long and erudite conference meet the horses,
with a theoretical and practical part, came out to walk her figure and deep knowledge of the
town, sometimes riding spirited horses, others in a charrette beautiful, Pablito guide, Pisces
to the fixed and absorbed in the loving contemplation of the backs of horses. Some also, to give
an example of humility, walking on own two legs.

Paul went to his family, writhing with laughter.

- What happened to you? - Dona Paula asked, smiling.

- We have followed a parakeet in the pot and you are hand in hand
with Ramona - said the youth, mouth close to her sister's ear Ventura.

-
Yeah ... What do you say? - Said it with great curiosity.

- As you
said ... (A flood of laughter interrupted him for a few moments).

Le said ... "Ramona, I love you. "

- Ave Maria! At a sardine! - Also said the girl laughing and crossing himself.

- If you saw how shaky voice he said it, and how to put eyes!

... Here is Pisces also heard ...

Pisces corroborating grunted.

At that time, Parakeet, which was a pale and sickly boy, with blue eyes and short and sparse beard,
appeared in the lunettes. The whole family looks nailed Belinchón laughing and mocking him. Especially
Paul and showed greatly elated Venturita in sight.

Budgie lifted his head and waved. The family said the greeting without Belinchón stop laughing.
Turned to lift her head two or three times and seeing those insistent smiles, was upset and left
the hall.

The curtain rose again. The decor represented caverns of hell, but it was not impossible that
someone believed that it was the hold of a ship. The event began a prelude to the orchestra,
led by Mr dignity Anselmo, a carpenter from the village. Saxhorns contained in it as Mr. Mathias,
the sexton, and Mr. Manolo (barber); Don Juan as the Salado clarinets (clerk of the City) and
Happy (carpenter); as tubal Mechacan (shoemaker) and Mr Romualdo (undertaker); as Pepe cornets
the Esguila (builder) and Maroto (serene); as Figl Mr. Benedict the
Rato (clerk a trading house and the church Figl).

There were four or five boys apprentices accompanying. Mr. Anselmo, instead of baton in his hand
to direct a huge shiny key, which was his workshop.

The prelude was very sad and afraid, as we were in hell. The audience kept absolute silence, anxiously
awaiting what would come out of there, staring at the open traps on the floor of the stage. Suddenly,
that gentle and mysterious music a trumpet out of tune.

Mr. Anselmo turned and looked Retribution the musician, who blushed
to the ears.

There was the strong public and prolonged murmur. Of the pan out then a voice shouted:

- Was the Esguila Pepe.

The public gaze turned to that workman, who became distracted by removing the of the cornet
mouthpiece and shaking, but was increasingly red.

- If you're not
playing that go to bed - the same voice shouted.

Then run and Pepe ashamed of Esguila suddenly flew into a rage, left
the instrument on the ground, and rising from the seat, his eyes alight
and waving their fists in front casserole, shouted:

- I'll fix as
we go, Barnacle!

- Chis, hush!

Hush, hush! "- Cried the public.

- What have you to fix, backpack! Go ahead and play the trumpet better.

- Hush, hush! What a scandal! - She cried the public.

And all eyes turned to the stage of the mayor.

He was a man of sixty, seventy years, under tall and very deep color, hair well preserved and completely
white, shaven cheeks, the Bourbon nose, eyes large, round and prominent.

It seemed a courtier of Louis XV or a big house coachman.

Don Roque, that was his name, turned in his seat and gave a voice.

- Marcones!

An octogenarian sheriff approached the back of the box with the big
blue visor cap tray in hand.

Mayor conferred with him a few times.

Marcones rose to the pan down shortly after with a young sailor suit, clutching his arm. Both
came the presidential box.

Don Roque began to curse him trying to mute the sound and getting it halfway. They heard of Occasionally
!»... :--«¡ Dunce "You have no shred of education" ... "Acorn animal" ... "Would you figures
that are in the tavern? "The sailor held his eyes sprayed on the ground.

A voice shouted from the courtyard:

- A ride to jail.

But from the other pot instantly replied:

- It also carried the Esguila Pepe.

- Silence! Silence!

The mayor, having harshly reprimanded and threatened Barnacle, let
him come again Once your site, with great satisfaction the pot, which
was received with cheers and applause.

The orchestra, silent for a moment, returned to his hellish prelude.

Before it was over, started out by setting traps to a dozen devils
with paths and huge wigs in tow, the tail label, and torches in their
hands.

Just as we found on the floorboards and closed conveniently traps,
were started, of course, a fantastic dance, it is well known of old
that can not be together four demons without giving the ball furiously.

Viewers followed his living with extreme curiosity and rhythmic movements.

A boy cried. The public forced his mother to do sacase.

But lo, with much coming and going, passing and rub the ministers of Beelzebub in that no very
large enclosure, a torch was to set fire to the wig of one of them. The poor devil without
realizing it, danced more and more infernal rapture. The audience laughed loudly waiting for
the next outcome of that incident. In fact, when he felt hot head more than necessary evil spirit,
was quick to pull the wig and mask, have revealed the face of Levita, where he painted the terror.

-
Levita! - Shouted the audience exhilarated.

The rogue had this nickname, deprived of their attributes hell, confused
and embarrassed withdrew from the scene.

Soon it ignited other wig. New murmurs and more anxious to see metempsychosis of that Angel
of Death. Was immediate. After a few minutes the wig and the mask flying through the air as on the
comet.

- Kill! - They shouted. A huge burst of laughter rang through the theater.

- Kill, do not you'll find that constipated - one from the pot said.

Kill retired Levita embarrassed mate.

Still burned two or three wigs, putting to shame many other rogues
the street that served as extras in the theater.

The dance is over at last no more fires.

Once again buried in the underworld demons who had escaped from the burning, presented at the scene
of a dashing young man, on its own pastor, judging by Pellicer covered his back, and a beautiful
girl of the same profession.

Which, in the same point, following the old precept that obliges every pastor and every pastor
to be in love to appear elusive, the dialogue began, where complaints
and tender love laments it contrasted with her indifferent laugh.

Were happy and joyful all, like the quad than the pot, with the tasty
words had passed on the scene when the stage door he heard a loud
voice said:

- Don Rosendo, is entering the Bella-Paula.

The effect of this unexpected call came, it was inexplicable.

Because not only don Rosendo rises as a spring-driven and hastens
with a trembling hand into her coat to leave, but on the whole competition
a strong rumor spread accompanied by agitation alive that was about
to interrupt the pastoral dialogue.

Quad artisans lanzáronse continuous act to the street.

In the pan down with heavy rattle almost all sailors was there.

And the seat boxes and also left many people. A few minutes were
not just in the theater more than women.

Cecilia stood motionless, pale, his eyes fixed on the scene.

His mother and sister while looking at her with smiling face.

-
Why look at me like that? - Turning suddenly exclaimed.

And in saying this was strongly red.

Venturita Dona Paula and laughed.

II

HAPPY ARRIVAL OF "BELLA" PAULA "

The bunch of spectators ran through the streets towards the waterfront. Front, surrounded by
six or eight sailors, his son Paul and some friends went Don Rosendo,
silent, preoccupied, listening to the comments of his companions,
who pronounced his voice breaking by fatigue.

- Don Domingo is lucky,
comes with more than half tide - a sailor said referring to the master
the Bella-Paula.

- What do you know if it now?

It may be funded from the afternoon - said another.

- Where?

- Where to be, sucker? in the shell - said the other raging.

- If you had been would, Uncle Michael.

- How you had to see, fool?

... Have you been in case in the rock Corvera?

- The flag of the Bella-Paula is above the rock, Uncle Michael.

- What flag or how bad lightning split you!

- What brings cargo, Don Rosendo? - He asked the owner one of his companions.

- Four million pounds.

- Scotland?

- No, all of Norway.

- Do you come on board the Master of the Cave?

Don Rosendo not answer.

After a moment of growing up hastily, turned saying

- Let's see, it is necessary to warn Don Melchor who is entering the Bella-Paula.

- I will go - said a sailor standing out from the pack and going to
penetrate again in the village.

They arrived at the pier.

The night was cold, starless, the wind lie: the calm sea. They left the old and tiny dock and
headed to the tip of the newly built Pawn progressed well over the
sea.

It glowed in the dark as it ships lantern anchored.

Just be warned the dense network of your rig. The helmet appeared as a mass Black report.

The newcomers did not see a much larger group of people crowding into the very tip the pier until it
fell upon him. All were silent with their eyes on the sea, efforts
to warn the darkness of the ship.

The waves breaking softly against the rocks nearby, occasionally
bleached in the dark.

- Where is it? - Asked several of the theater
audience pulling eyes to see something.

- There.

- Where?

- Do
not you see here, left, a green light?

... Go on my hand.

- Ah, yes, I see!

Don Rosendo moved into second body wall, and found there and Don Melchor de las Cuevas. This
was a tall, very tall, thin, shaved in the manner of sailors, ie leaving the beard around
the neck like a bandage. He had more reason for it than most Sarrió neighbors who shaved this
way, because it belonged to the honorable body Navy, while serving as withdrawn. But in the
sea ports, particularly when the population is small, like the one in which we find ourselves,
the maritime element predominates and infiltrates so that all people, could not help it, without
realizing it, adopt certain uses, words and dress of the sailors.

It would have been handsome and gallant Lord of the Caves in their younger days, because today,
seventy-four years, is a vigorous man, erect, bright and piercing eyes, nose hawk, noble and
open front. All his energy and decision announced figure.

Standing on a seat attached to the parapet wall, with huge glasses
sea ??led to the little green light that shone intermittently yonder.

Was by far the highest figure coming out of the group of spectators.

-
Don Melchor, you are here now ... I send a message to his home.

-
An hour ago I came - "Monsieur de las Cuevas, separating goggles Face
.-- I have seen the boat from the balcony shortly after sunset.

-
I had to guess.

How will you escape had nothing to go out there?

- I have a better view when I was a lad of twenty years - said Don
Melchor with strong intonation and loud so I hear.

- I believe, I
believe, Don Melchor.

- A fifteen miles I turn a boat bonito.

-
I believe, I believe.

- And if you ask me a little - uttered more
loudly still, - I tell the ports to the frigates crossing for Ferrol.

-
Arius, lowered a bit, Don Melchor - said a voice.

There was suppressed laughter in the dark, because the Lord commanded respect de las Cuevas
deep crewmen.

The angry old sailor turned his head toward the spot where he had
left the wisecrack.

Esforzóse to penetrate the darkness in silence a few moments, and
at length said hoarsely

- If I knew who you are, you will soon band
I lowered into the sea.

No one dared say a word, nor was there the slightest attempt at laughter. In Sarrió was known that
Lord of the Caves was quite capable of doing as told. He had served in the Navy more than forty
years, always enjoying the view of brave and honorable officer, but at the same time of a severity
bordering on barbarism.

When any ship commander remembered of our ancient maritime ordinances, Don Melchor was determined
to implement them and in all its rigor. We had terror in the people who had drowned a sailor
spend three times under the keel, as prescribed by the ordinance
for certain offenses; more than one hundred were crippled with sticks
or had lifted the skin with the whip.

Furthermore there was not Sarrió pilot or sailor could have with
him the regard to sea, so in the knowledge of the time, that the maneuvers
of the vessels, in all the secrets of navigation.

The little green light was approaching slowly.

Perceived as the bulk of the Bella-Paula naked eye, and also two
or three black spots near it, which often changed site.

They were the pilot boat and auxiliary boats to pull the boat when it was necessary. As the wind just
blew the corvette remained hoisted all sails. No But he was too close to the wall for this
not constitute a hazard. Al Don Melchor less well understood, because he began to swear under
his breath and restless. Unable to resist, knowing that they had not heard, shouted:

- Grasp the topsails, Sunday. What are you waiting for?

He had scarcely uttered these words, when they were on the tops of
packages almost imperceptible to the sailors.

- Just happened! -
Don Melchor said.

- Yes, that Sunday is a fool! - Said under the
sailor whom the master of Cuevas had threatened.

The hull of the sloop, painted black with a white band in the draft,
was highlighted finally with pure dark background.

The eyes of viewers, accustomed now to the darkness, well see what
was happening on board. On the bridge there were two packages, Captain
and the practical. In a bow, the pilot.

- What about the scandal?
- Don Melchor shouted again.

The mizzen outrageous, as if to obey
his voice fell. The boat continued drawing closer with increasing
pause. The wind sails could not replenish low: the hanging crab stick
limp and faint like a prom dress used. And those were quickly lowered
gripping This, and the ship began to walk calmly desperate towed by
two boats. The figures rose rhythmically rowers on the benches. And
the voice patterns shouting: - Hala ahead! Pull hard! - Brilliantly
broke the silence of the night.

But the Yanks were so weak in relation
to the mass, the ship hardly moved. When After a quarter of an hour
got about thirty fathoms near the tip of the Pawn took off one end,
one of the boats that brought the levee to help turn the corvette.

-
Captain, Captain! "- Shouted a loud voice from the group.

- What?
- Answered the ship.

- Do you come on board the Master of the Cave?

-
Yes.

- Eye For the Master of the Caves ... The others drown.

The
joke caused great uproar in the crowd. Silence reigned. The corvette
started in turn, supported on the ground after that creaked with stress.
People in the dock began talking to the board. But it showed silent,
taciturn, serving maneuvers rather than the questions they were going.
Then the mocking temper the sailors in that region is boasted again.
The ground began to go the board, especially a subject that seemed
a lot of hair, who was called Tanganyika, which was moving from side
to side, with the grace of a bear, running cables, and throwing grunts
of disdain for the crowd.

- Listen, Tanganyika, and you'll feel like
eating a casserole of cod, right?

- Rejoice, Tanganyika is cider
Llandones Winery.

- It was hot in Norway?

- There you would like
to see me, thief! - Growled Tanganyika, while clutching a candle