 

In short, Don Paco fought against feeling sick, but proposed no-drop the company he had formed a very
vague, it was also proposed to proceed as caution and be as sly I could, but these businesses
did not happen as in the City business, and being crafty was not his forte.

Thus discoursing, Don Paco spent reviewing his linen. He saw only had half a dozen quite spoiled
shirts and many darned. And this was very little to him, person of extreme cleanliness, that
rare thing in a small place!, put on clean three times a week justificadísimo was decided that the
order that might make him a half dozen new shirts, he did badly needed, "Who had to make them
better than Juanita, who was the seamstress Villalegre more skillful? And who was to cut better than
his mother, who, as that with the end of the stick on the left and palette in his right hand
was an inspired woman with scissors in hand and with any fabric stretched across the table and marked
as artistically in pencil or tailor's chalk?

The next day, determined and Don Paco, came early in the morning to the home of Juana la Larga,
and we he ordered six beautiful shirts with cuffs and chest madapolán wire, adjusting to thirty
reais each. To make a will and excite the zeal of the two Joans, it took Don Paco, wrapped in
a handkerchief and no laymen would see what he was carrying a basket filled with strawberries,
fruit very rarely in place, and most sumptuously pulled further out of his pocket the loose coat
that used to wear every day, no less than three exquisite chocolate buns Dona Ines used to do at home,
and of which his father had bought a dozen rolls four ounces each.

Juana la Larga, who was very greedy and very fond of the gift, accepted this with gratitude and
pleasure, but I was not only long body, but it was also estimate, and if it were true, mental sense
of smell, the smell, and pulled his point intentions Don Paco brought and which had already
suspected something.

IX

The saying goes, that honor and profit do not fit in a bag, but Juana la Larga, about being honest
honesty bordering on austerity in order to erase the bad impression of his errors youth was also
a midwife full discretion and opinion, and he knew the adage mentioned often wrong. For her,
in case he had just introduced, instead of not fitting in a sack,
the benefit could not be without honor, and honor had to produce naturally
profit.

If Juanita camelar left at random, was exposed to derail his reputation and being the target of
the fiercest always grumbling and lose hope of finding a good husband. And all this for a few trinkets
and seedy fiddle. While that if Juanita was right to be rigid without upsetting and scaring the
suitor, but without giving Please not the least of importance before the priest in the church
give the passport to favors, making acts of duty and justice charges, likely it was that sick
Don Paco emberrenchinase to the point that entered the ring, breaking all the tissue difficulties
that the ring verifications Dona Ines and others, and raising to be Juanita Mrs. legitimately
most important character of the place, after Don Andrés Rubio the
chief.

With these thoughts in mind, to pair with remarkable skill, and developing the film I was rolled in
a wheelbarrow, took Juana to Don Paco appropriate action. Was with it sweeter than a arropía, and
although he said he had come to his house to prove the first shirt, because when I was half done or
basting send it to the test invited him to some nights, nine to eleven, when he had nothing better
to do, come, I did want a get-together at his house because she and Juanita liked to bed early,
and although they were almost always alone, watched until midnight.

Juanita sewed or embroidered, but as this is done with his hands, his tongue was prompt and
talked more than a parrot.

- I - added Juana la Larga - do not sew or board at night, because I have lost sight, and so
I hand over hand or step to me rosary beads and prayer. If you are ever bad mood, we can throw
together four or five hands tute, I know that you like.

I like too, but my bad luck and my limited means would not allow me to play more that real per
game. And yet, if given a very bad, you can lose twenty or thirty real one night, who does
not like things.

Already includes Don Paco accepted the invitation and was home of Juana gathering, at first from
time to time, after a short time, every night.

Tute almost always played and lost. Their losses could be assessed, a night with another in
a quarter day. Everything, no However, it was Don Paco well spent.

The shirts were soon completed and Don Paco was very pleased. In life there others as best you
sit down.

Would not become more beautiful the most reputable haberdasher in Paris. The glossy fronts were
not a wrinkle, the necks were straight, the diplomatic, very nice and cuffs and the buttons
in the day, style, Juana gave him, in return for the many gifts that he received a beautiful
pair of silver-gilt buttons that market in the Murciano shop, well
stocked store, where they say there, as was to God created and everything
you can imagine, build, weave and make human industry: cards, matches,
silk, wool and cotton, spices, cheese, chickpeas and beans, sesame,
anise and other seeds.

It was almost the only items missing there meats cow and sheep and all the amazing variety of tasty
products resulting from the killing and slaughter of pigs.

Were already talking about Don Paco and Joan, were already playing
tute, Juanita rarely suspended your sewing or embroidery, but not
suspend, used to take part in the conversation as more enjoyable.

No one came to interrupt this circle of three, except Antonuelo, which scaled much to Don Paco
and filled him with dread and moody.

Grew this point because while he was playing Don Paco tute and was accused Juana Forty, Antonuelo
sat near Juanita, on the other end of the room where she sewed, and
both excitedly and whispered so softly that Don Paco could not catch
a word of what they said.

This was put on edge and very agitated and sad, but you were worth to hide stealth.

Then Don Paco played worse: he used to be king and horse of the same suit he forgot to acknowledge
twenty, or, if you played a gold Juana and he had the ace or three,
he kept it and not missed.

So they came at night to socialize Antonuelo on the frustration that led Don Paco, made him lose
a couple of pesetas and up to three at times.

Antonuelo come or not come to socialize, Juana la Larga was always present. Don Pablo manner of speaking
was not alone with Juanita, or leaving the mother and imitate Antonuelo
entangled in whispers with his daughter.

I tried it once, speaking on Juanita, answered this high, making conversation
general and stripping it of all mystery.

Don Paco wanted Well, when Antonuelo coming, surrounding things so that forced him entertain
the mother, talking or playing tute with her, but claimed that Antonuelo tute could not play and
implied that he had nothing to say to Jane.

Don Paco often highly charged out of this circle, which was proposed and nearly resolved not return
to it or at least go slowly withdrawing. But I had taken the damn habit go, and every night, if
slowing somewhat, to touch souls began to tingle and boil the feet, and themselves, acting
and rebelling against their will, brought him to escape and as if by magic to the home of both
Juan.

X

Soon noticed all the neighbors, it spreads the news for the rest of the population, the constant
Don Paco nightly visits, but as Antonuelo used to go too, and between Don Paco and Juanita was
so great disproportion of age, people murmuring explained everything assuming Antonuelo was Juanita's
boyfriend, and Don Paco had or tried to have romantic relationships
with the mother, who, despite his forty-five years and the many jobs
and dislikes had happened in this life, hardly any gray hair, and
was agile, lean, and although a few, well made, fresh, tight and juicy
meat apparently.

The austerity of Juana la Larga elusive for many years, since he had his youth stumbling this time
could not relieve it of slander. People said they had finally left
tempt and gave it all for granted.

When I saw people who were Antonuelo and Don Paco at nine home and remained there until around midnight,
did not judge that so innocent gathering as it really was, and called it love twice.

The jokes about it to Don Paco gave some of his friends stirred up a lot.

So, excited, although he had no right to demand an explanation, more or less disguised rodeos,
and when Antonuelo was not present, he dared to ask them and find out why he came Antonuelo
so often and what was with Juanita on long asides and whispers.

Both John, without alteration in any way as a matter of course and simply explained what However,
saying that Juanita and Antonuelo were exactly the same age, had
grown together since they were in diapers and could be regarded as
brothers.

They added that Antonuelo was both naughty and very pocket, which gave his father great uneasiness,
feared that it could even greater harm and Juanita even remotely
suited him for boyfriend, but she was right not to dispense it had
brotherly love, or to forbid to come and see, or fail to give good
advice and warnings, which were the subject of whispers.

Don Paco appeared to quiet down to hear such an explanation, but in reality was not at rest, and
showing the genuine interest that the good name of Juanita inspired him, hinting that although
it was all moral and pure and innocent, it was desirable to avoid what people say, do not receive
Antonuelo so often.

The sermons he preached Don Paco, rather than leading to moral decency observed Juanita can not
say they were preaching in the desert. Gradually stopped visiting often Antonuelo, their whispers with
Juanita shortened, and finally, whispers and visits came to be rare.

This gave encouragement to Don Paco.

Thought he noticed that lent ear to his loving gentle reprimand, and dared to preach also on
another point.

In the end he liked to see Juanita chat on the source or up the hill to the pitcher in the hip or
washed clothes and gentle on the head, more graceful and a gallant green forest nymph, and
more majestic than own princess Nausicaa, which also washed clothing
when not flake off or take the airs on the floor, they used to princesses,
Back in the golden ages.

Don Paco, who had, as we have already pointed out, understanding, love of beauty, it was entranced
watching the gait of the girl, who had no light, provocative and dirty movement hips and tiny
little steps that tend to have cool, but it was a smooth ride, great strides, noble and gracious,
as indeed must go Diana, or Venus herself to reveal the son of Anchises in the forests around
Carthage.

Villalegre were spent in corsets, and even was Juana's Long who was better, but the Juanita
indomitable never wanted to get into such a tightness or wear that hair shirt that she needed anything
and he understood that his body had been disfigured. Wearing only between the slight calico
dress and white shirt and a waistcoat and petticoat bodice without irons or whales, which was enough
to constrain virginal narrow waist, leaving the rest Udder that law firm, had no need of support
or support.

In the spirit of Don Paco could, however, rather than the delight to see Juanita at source albercón
or returning from, the idea that, being very remote and the golden age was not possible to mimic
the princess Nausicaa, without stooping or abasement too, and so he advised and admonished
many times and with such discrete Juanita reasons not to go to the source, always supported
her mother, Juanita gave way, after all, and stopped going to the
source and the albercón, retreating further from other various exercises
and tasks that are not characteristic of a lady.

XI

Doña Inés López de Roldan was far from being an ordinary villager
and mediocrity.

It was, by the Otherwise, very distinguished, and their merits both looked at, or be proportionate,
could qualify for a princess or a Lieveo Madame Recamier village. His life did not spend idle,
but employed in works almost always good and fruitful toil. Your charity to the poor was widely
praised, and helped this year Mr. Don Andrés Rubio. Why she did not neglect the government of
his house, which was jumping clean, and all very in order, despite having seven kids, the eldest
of eight years, but as the house was very large, five more, delivered to a woman already old
and trustworthy, had them on the opposite end of the one in which she was, in order to not disturb
their screaming and crying, and his solitary musings, and their readings, and their interesting
Anselmo talks with the father, with the chief or someone from stem to come to visit.

At nine o'clock at night in summer and eight winter or earlier, sent to bed children, and since
then, until eleven o'clock, and sometimes even later, was gathering, which Be discreet, and
who rarely attended Mr. Roldan, who could not boast or brag of discrete,
and whom the shrewd and amazed at his wife's pride, but also time
excited him to sleep.

In the hours that left him free of worries and cares of the house and even the administration
of the estate, which had slowly robbed her husband for not consider
him capable, Dona Ines used to engage in readings that adorned and
raised their spirit.

Seldom missed the time to read novels, convicted of tasteless or immoral and lustful. Of poetry
was not supported either, and without plagiarizing Plato, Plato did not realize I had precepts,
banished from home and family to almost all the poets as corrupting morality and enemies of
true religion and peace that must prevail in the well republics agreed, but instead read Dona
Ines History of Spain and other countries and, above all, many books of devotion. The priest
admired so much to hear him talk about theology that, mentally, adorned
with the hood behind and head with his hat and tassel.

So great was the activity of Dona Ines, despite so many occupations, there was still time to
satisfy his desire to learn thoroughly contemporary history and local I had for her more attractive
than the Universal History or remote ages and countries.

For detailed local contemporary story about the facts and to exercise the most severe critical,
Dona Ines value of different media, the most important one old maid, I was doing errands, going
in and out everywhere and it was called Crispina, rival in Privanza
favor and Serafina, the maid.

With Crispina, Dona Ines was aware of the engagements he had in town of quarrels and love affairs,
friendships and enmities, of what is spent on dress in each house, so this was and what he had given
prize, and even what I ate or spent on food each family. Those who ate well, Doña Inés's censored
for their gluttony and waste, and those who ate little and badly, had described these wretched of
wolverine and perecientes.

He soon, therefore, Dona Ines news of the passions of her father and his home visits or gatherings
of both Juan. A lot of bother this gross wickedness, how hard the last name, but concealed and
reported for many days, without saying anything to his father.

Dona Ines was very advanced in its eighth hopes stem and in this
delicate situation was careful and tried not to be altered for any
reason, to that these hopes were not frustrated or twisted ruinmente,
performing in a premature to deterioration and damage to his health.

But while Dona Ines said no for now Don Paco anything, it was saved and continued to watch and find
out from Crispina, in the belief that it was not Juanita Juana and her father who wanted or
courting.

This belief not a little disgust mitigated Dona Ines Porge could not get into his head his father
never tried to remarry with Juana la Larga.

So what very sharply censured in this era of immorality and scandal loving relationships man
who had contracted by more than half a century and was soon to be grandfather for the eighth
time. The angry too tired commoner status of the object of love from his father, who, if not worthy
of applause, would have seemed worthy of apology to have been with
some noble modest and its position, as there were two or three in
place, which, he thought Dona Ines Don Paco had been opened, if he
had knocked on the door asking them entry.

No tired, then, Dona Ines de censor vile inclinations of his father. He also hurt that his
father liked both give to Juana la Larga, assuming, as the news brought Crispina, who spent
much more than it earned.

- "So tute playing with it?

- Yes, madam - said Crispina -. And then, throw it fine, and because he is enthralled and spellbound
Juana watching sheep's eyes half die, and without regard to the game, the fact is that Juana
stripping, beating ten or twelve reals per night. In addition, gifts of Don Paco rain without
clearing on that house, and sends a turkey, and a dozen puddings
and fruit, and part of chocolate that gives him his mercy, made by
the man who came specially from Cordoba to do to this house.

What that Don Paco had given a part of their fiercely angry chocolate Dona Ines, I felt a real
desecration and almost made him lose his temper, but at last thought about the situation he was
in, and out of mind, and got reported. Moderation and their care were not in vain.

On June 29, feast of St. Peter the Apostle, Dona Ines felt from very
early morning pain, and with great ease gave birth in the same day
to a beautiful child.

The mother and Mr. Roldan decided to be called Peter in honor of the Prince of the Apostles
in whose day he was born and who were very devout. Mr. Don Andrés Rubio promised to take the infant
in his arms at the baptismal font. And since the infant was robustísimo and physician sure that
his life was in danger, delayed his baptism until mid July and because
it would be lifted Dona Ines and could attend the festivities that
are undertaken, and because then it would make the announced visit
of the bishop, who, at the to confirm that all the boys who are not,
they would do the honor of baptizing Parakeet future.

The bishop would be staying at the house of lords Roldan three or four days were in Villalegre.
Doña Inés, therefore, thinking about the preparations and all means had to employ to do with
showcasing such an honorable reception, persevered in restraining his Juana la Larga anger, whom
his father's imagined seductive. And hiding the hate had taken, refused to leave of using it
at the time of such determination. Had already called the day of
delivery, because it knew from experience that nothing in the world
more skilled midwife known as Jane.

And there was no woman so willing
to prepare and lead the festivities, with Joan promised time so that
two days before the arrival of the bishop came home, without returning
to the house itself but to sleep and prepare and direct everything.
Juana promised to do so and it turned very tasty.

XII

On the eve
of the arrival of the bishop, who was on July 15, the eve also of
the Virgin of Carmen, Juana had already worked a lot, sweating chyle
to flavor the food and candy, and even have the equipment and the
magnificence that were to be deployed in the reception and hosting
of your illustrious lordship, and soda and had ambiguous to be in
that house all the most distinguished and illustrious village, after
completion the Christian ceremonies of confirmation and baptism