 But in the social commerce tempering
had gone to what he saw around him. Did his best to suppress impulses of its expansive nature
and caring: a continent adopted grave, impassive, slightly dismissive: tried to mock that
was said in his presence, and touch not the uses and privileges of the wildness, acquiring
a certain ironic twang, like that of her peers club. And above all took good care to give any
scientific or philosophical idea, because knew from experience that this was not spared in that
society. Until sought refrain whenever one of those young people inspired him with sympathy
and affection more than others. The love is in itself ridiculous and should be stored in the bottom
of my heart. Otherwise luck exposed to the same object of his loving expansions will respond
with a wisecrack as happened more than once. Thanks to these measures and that learning was for
The rugged, able to be more respected, that he looked like a man chic, supreme happiness it
is not easy to get to this miserable existence planet.

When Cobo had conducted several of those trips from car to car, that did not stop be dangerous
by the speed of the train, Lola Madariaga, setting a quizzical look, first Clementina, Alcázar
then said this:

- Alcázar, do you dare to go for the Countess of Cotorraso their smelling
salts?

I feel a little dizzy.

Raymond was, as we know, a weak boy who had no education gymnastics of young aristocrats, their
friends. That little trip by abutment, with very rapid progress the train, which for them was
trivial thing for him, he felt dizziness while crossing a bridge
or climb a tower, it was really dangerous.

Well understood and hesitated a moment, but honrilla him the answer:

-
I at the time, ma'am.

And be prepared to comply with the request.

But Clementina, who had frowned to hear the request of his friend, he stopped crying with energy:

-
Do not go, Alcázar!

And will handle it when you return to Cobo.

The young man hesitated, hand still on the door, but Clementina repeated
even more strongly, and blushing:

- Do not go.

Do not go.

Lola Ray said smiling:

- Excuse me, ma'am. Today I can not be servant but Clementina. Another day I will be honored
to be you.

Lola or laugh, or grin the other ladies were able to extinguish the pleasing excitement that the keen
interest of his love made him feel.
Ramon Maldonado was in the other car accompanying Esperanza, her
mother and other ladies and damsels who had the firm intention of
love with her speech. I was saying, striving to give his word a parliamentary
twist, some curious incidents of last sessions of the Council. He
drove well and all common areas municipal public speaking and knew
to the core regulatory technicality. He talked about agenda, votes
of confidence, individuals, nominal, secrets, incidental propositions,
prior, and not of a matter, summoned, questions, etc., etc., as if
the inventor of this wonderful device of human ingenuity