 

Optional only the real power to grant temporary or permanent license to use of these fisheries, as seas
belonging to his dominions. Eyes open knowledge the great practical value of this trade, will attract
interest to their use. This is the fruit that can take the crown, not by the interests that rotates
Portugal, but by the survey and those populations most advanced Parages south she cares about
or interested. At that excels in the most useful, and we show port insurance for the shelter of
the boats, offering people, these costs compénsesele the granting of any privilege or license
to the fishery in the time it seems regular, formal contractual obligation and mortgages. Unansele
those graces which allows the real protection and sovereignty, and thus, without squandering
the royal purse, get the These wastes to useful Rey domains, preparing a means to attract true
knowledge many heathen souls occupy in the propagation of the faith and usefulness of State
and provide different benefits to navigation and trade.

While the Magellan Strait and islands of Fire is important to us a
true and accurate recognition by if you allow ports that provide us
passage to the South Sea, no be neglected the Gulf of San Jorge, which
is located at 45 degrees and minutes to look with the indifference
that so far.

The recognition that in March 1780 did the pilots of the expedition which came to control D. Antonio
Viedma, to set in San Julian, only recognized with the launch of
the packet boat San Sebastian, about 40 miles from the northern side,
pulling the west of the gulf.

For and news reports are from practical Indians their surroundings, ensuring that to this course
comes very close to the mountains, where some streams draining water sweet, and half the land to
them, is the way of the Indians of San Julian to Tucamelel river, or of the Incarnation. This
is evidenced by the daily recognition Villarino Black River, which relates the journey they
had just done to that river near those expressed Indians. If the English recognize and take
hold of the Gulf, would have input for him to Valdivia and other towns of the kingdom of Peru,
and he could easily be established without Our news. Abundant large number of whales, which place provides
the fishing greater advantages than others. These grounds, that to be true express their importance,
encourage stakeholders in the fishery to its recognition, we must disabuse, and give a true view
of the importance of the gulf, and communication that is feared. The fact is that the Indians
of those Parages transiting the Black River by the way you say, and from this river go to
the borders of Buenos Aires.

All of these utilities will attract to us the survival and development of the population of Rio
Black. She has to shake hands at the port of San José with its fruits and cattle, and as scale,
such aid must go to other towns, discovering the ways that pass the
Indians, their watery, campaigns and mountains to the Straits, because
of all there is news and has only missed the previous ministry, the
heat required in such cases, that in time the two Super-mayors have
been on their committees, have but recognized the principal of this
continent.

The internment of trade for Valdivia, Chile, Mendoza and other Parages by the Black River, would
be very useful for smaller gap compared to that of Buenos Aires, for the help of navigation, and because
they have other amenities that can make softer asperities the road.

The more enemies opposed the establishment of the Black Rio admit
the usefulness of this hospitalization, but are impossible, speaking
with such courage and security, as if they had measured inch by inch
on those roads, and had learned with a practical knowledge of navigation
River.

No need sugeto whom he should confess the justice of instruction and superior talent, that supports
and sustains the same impossibility, and they assure me it has become
clear in a paper that gave the government greater, the more steps
that I could not get.

Would be most useful These challenges were reciprocal and mutual knowledge of them: for the contentious
and rational opposition is the discovery of the truth which is that crave and seek those who
seek the wisdom. If so many opinions to be taken to give ground with the establishments, that is, to
deter the King and his Ministers of the importance of them, they
had first gone to the Super-intendant, to inform its view and respond,
then it would have had more news and knowledge that shed light the
whole truth.

For these reasons, the aforementioned request and feel like paper, they are matters should not be
booked as much mystery about sugetos they have earned the trust of King for the performance of
this important commission, mostly when it seems has run between people who have no connection with
these materials, which I notice those points most essential for this role, though confusing,
of which I will to meet and demonstrate As I proposed.

Two are the most powerful objections to this individual seems to show, in which supports and
maintains the grounds of their opposition. The first, which made navigation difficult Villarino
in recognition of Black River to the Catapuliché, where she arrived, she herself demonstrates
its irrelevance to trade. The second grade of impassable mountain ranges, from that place to
Valdivia.

For the same operations, expressed in log Villarino, this individual demonstrates the Black River
inaccessible in its navigation. If we would have to be to that point, at that station, to that
state in which they found and navigated the river Villarino, it is
necessary to confess futility, but this varies with the time difference,
and repeated tests over give a true view of the channels, reefs, waterfalls
and river flows, showing how to overcome them with other aid, seems
somehow strange that so vividly, without waiting for other than practical
knowledge, is useless to condemn and fail for a case that both interest
to our happiness.

Villarino navigation was made at the station opposite. The forty-five days we stopped at the Choelechel,
food waiting to be continued, we delayed the time, So when he arrived at the confluence with Diamond
makes the Black River, had fallen water, in terms that caused the
hardship of his voyage.

This lack discovered jumps and reefs, and their maturity was the greatest difficulty. If he
had come to this recognition for the month of July, which is the time that begin growing, and
last until March, would be less difficult and softer, not so many breaks were discovered and
reefs, and carcasses would not cause so vehement currents caused constriction of them, as with
most water extends the river and avoids the momentum of its effects. With the help of horses
or mules (that could not fend Villarino, the risks that were expected of the Indians, who are
the attractiveness of their invasions) was smoothed and facilitated navigation and throwing them
to the towpath, falling all the work of the sailors on the strength
and vigor of these animals, removing and opening the way for the banks
of the river to do useful these operations.

To take a true knowledge of all this, it is necessary that the different experiences seriousness
of the case he asks: We must not defer to the relationship of a hasty and obscure tentative,
which may be misleading for many reasons.

Discoverer is characteristic of all ponder the difficulties and work that has prevailed to to assert
their merit, and even without fail the sincerity and good faith, those first impressions in
humans often cause different looks in proportion to the affection in which he is caught. Would
not it strange that he and his Villarino, the loneliness of those spot, lack of communication,
and others perhaps, I produgesen an affection or passion hateful in his imagination soar to
lofty mountains of difficulty accessible hills or ravines.

When they discovered the Black River, the first pilot of the royal fleet, D. Manuel Brunel, and
infantry lieutenant D. Pedro Garcia, the San Antonio Zumaca Oliveyra, such was the impression
they caused the bar, which retreated to the port of San José, and
gave for impossible input.

Villarino was, and proved otherwise, and on the day it is so easy, windy the bow on board have
entered the launches. If we had been to the decision and inform sugetos those we would not have been
a disappointment so clear.

Black river navigation presents is not impossible, but difficult: it is fitting to all principles, since
the best facilities that we despise in the day, at its source would
cost hard work and maturity.

The time and the practical demonstration of the importance of this post and walk, subsisting
the establishment of the Black River, are to give light to start preparing and paving the horror,
much difficulty as it appears, extending its upstream populations, which will serve to your comfort
level, prepare more interest to trade; contain the audacity Indians
in insults and robberies that experience the frontiers of Buenos Aires,
will be more solid foundation on which to found their hopes of reducing
these infidels inhabitants of the vast and fertile lands that make
up the skirts of Huechuhuehuem and ranges, to Concepcion, Chile, whose
industries benefit operations wool, ponchos and blankets that make
the cultivation of agriculture in which we imitate, fixed population,
but widely dispersed from their homes, we offer the most extensive
and happy ideas for the exaltation of our holy faith, and prosperity
of the State and the day may come that imitation we laugh at these
apparent difficulties.

To meet the second objection, would need all of the evidence and rationale
it gives the author because the first acquired some news that I got
the diary Villarino was in navigation.

But this, if it is true that given by inaccessible mountains by those spot, I can not hit upon
them, because they do not have to draw from their vast comprehension, science and literature,
if not a disappointment in the physical, that can reason and be dealt with the most uncouth
rustic.

It is true that the ranges are inaccessible for many Parages. The Indians of San Julian answer,
that from the Straits, pulling the northern part, they are even for the brutes: noticed the
same Super-intendant D. Antonio de Viedma when he recognized the Santa Cruz River to its source
[A] but should not be understood with the rigor that the author thinks, because only the is
accessible by road we use for Mendoza to Chile. They are also passable from Huechuhuehuem, or
Catapuliché, on the Portillo, the Indians and cattle driving. The give evidence to this claim
is the standard reply of the Indian inhabitants of those spot, with
whom I have asked repeatedly prolixity, news of which went checking
with the findings of Villarino, and to be found near the river Diamond,
livestock cattle and horses that the Indians had stolen them from
the borders of Buenos Aires, to sell to Valdivia, where the consignment
had been offered a year earlier, and as for having reported these
infidels, when he came to Catapuliché, who had fallen Christian Valdivia,
as a day Road, where he was, to try and adjust the purchase of it,
giving individual signs of person [B].

All these tests are indeed his own: those of the author must be of ideas and references, which inequality
is evident in the faith of a justification which is supported so legally. But congratulations, I have
to grant equality, which do not: in this case, we should not have happened to Valdivia to examine
and verify those quotes that were a true testament of truth?

But what was it made? Differ by a whole to the authority of the author, as if the inaccessible
mountains, which was his imagination and discourse, were true.

Of course there is evidence advanced for and against the inaccessible and transit of ranges by
Catapuliché, Huechuhuehuem to Valdivia, we should be in favor of the latter, Unless a physical
disappointment sincere and true people do see the opposite. No we must know that nature gives
us two ways that I have proposed by water and by land to the plaza and the kingdom of Chile, at the
proper time for not only I can navigate as shown at the place where he Villarino, but the gap Huechum-lauquen,
or limit the source of the river, which is a more distant day's journey. From this site Valdivia
to throw the Indians three days by mule, by the harshness of the mountains, traffic very short,
compared to half that by Mendoza to Chile, crossing us less expenses and other amenities.

Since the establishment of Black River to the lagoon-lauquen Huechum land, its distance not even
reach 160 leagues to the top of Diamond to open way too comfortable
carts along the same river, which washes the largest livestock rescue
and relief.

A site can be conceptualized 120 leagues: from him at this gap 40, and from this to Valdivia 20,
so that the whole distance being 180 miles, the 120 is very smooth turnpike road and comfortable,
the 40 with time maybe you will in the same provisions, applicable to soften some missteps, and
the remaining 20 is the only bad thing is that travel. But this, as explained by Indians,
not those aviaries and cliffs to the Mendoza Chile. Compare, then, the increase of this from Buenos Aires,
which went from 500 leagues, painful and risky for the crossing of
the pampas, of water scarcity and Indians, with short soft and can
be opened by the Black River, and the safety of these infidels, taken
its main avenues and places, that is another issue that matters most
to the prosperity Buenos Aires, as I will show in place, expressed
through the populations.

I've talked to Promote the concept to what I discovered in the Black River to the Plaza de Valdivia;
regardless of the recognition of Diamond Rio, or Sanquel, which made observation Villarino the
pilot, at the confluence of this river with the Black, 38 degrees 44 minutes and other combinations
and news, there is reason to hope, has with the Tunuyan, which passes by the city of Mendoza, and to be certain
they discover equal proportions.

We arrived as the most important point, and that happiness lies across the province, this is
to repair the destruction caused by livestock in the vast Indian
campaigns and borders Buenos Aires, in book to those who disbelieve
so many deaths, robberies and captivity, to take advantage the vast
fields that mediate this capital Black River, where you can expand
and encouraged raising cattle, which must be one of the branches has
to sustain this facility and support of others.

The issues are very serious, but their happiness depends on a same cause, which is to restrain
the Indians.

News acquired by the recognition of the river that made Villarino, we found reports had been many
Indians, having no other way those of the nation Tehuelche Villiches, Puelches, and other inhabitants
of the Huechuhuehuem nations, near Valdivia é in the mountains, the site called the Choelechel,
to travel to Colorado mountains Window, Tandil, Volcano, Cashuatí, and frontiers of Buenos
Aires, for lack of watering the other spot, and be impassable terrain. The safety of these
particular news made me believe it spread to all nations of Indians, that cause us much harm,
and taking that step were sugetos. This concept encouraged me to repeat the request to Mr. Viceroy
to occupy and to ensure.

Later an Indian tried very cunning, and practices of those sites Vastis
called José Yati, who disabused me, informing me that the step was
respectively Choelechel Indian nations that I mentioned, but not all,
as I had two paths where they came, and penetrated: one fell to the
Salinas, where salt has provided Buenos Aires with the carts, and
is gone from the Indians Peguenches and Aucases, whose leader named
Guchulap, and the other farther north and not far from the city of
Córdoba, who attend those Ranqueles nation.

The reason for using different ways these nations, is the enmity that have a with others, and
be more immediate to their lands to become as common in traffic, had to go through those of
its neighbors.

The other two roads is a matter that deserves more attention in the day, because we have no knowledge
physicist of them, which does not occur with that of Choelechel: just talked on the news reports and
Indians, and you need a formal discovery to pull these lines Parages for their safety.

Even without the news of these important reasons, in office from July 31, 1781, I proposed to
Viceroy Lord how useful it was to be gaining knowledge of the Indian
nations inhabiting fields of Buenos Aires, its shelters and retreats,
where he began to secure, when they saw persecuted, or attacked us,
to which he had intended to try to the peons, Antonio Godoy and Juan
Jose Gonzales, with the pretext to go to their tents to buy cattle,
lead them brandy, beads, and grass, with whose gifts were being familiar
with some, and taking other news, the only way he could overcome these
difficulties.

Record showed equal he said His Excellency. Lord would be useful to practice from the borders
of Buenos Aires and his guards sugetos allocating adapted to the case, with whose knowledge was
easy with two expeditions come out of this capital and Black River contain and restrain.

This proposal was welcomed, and Godoy and Gonzales sent with letters to habiéndolos SE, and this
being the first who ventured to walk the way through so many Indians, and given knowledge to
the journey made by the pilot D. Paul Sisur by land to the establishment, both had the unfortunate
end to stop at a prison, which prison he delivered his own innocence.

Notwithstanding the contempt with which it was my proposal, the continued abuse and theft Indians
forced the Viceroy Lord to identify shipments that have come from Cordoba, Mendoza and the
capital, but not the Black River, which is the most immediate camp site to them. The cause I
can not understand me much room but the opposition of the establishment. God will not spoil those
costs, have left open that gate.

These expeditions were the best principles to discover and recognize
the two aforementioned steps and roads, for those of Mendoza and Córdoba
be crossed, and share them with their instructions and news commanders,
with the same spending levels rose to those sites, accompanying optional
sugetos sincerity and truth, and not full of prejudice Queen of the
establishments that: whether you have admitted, they may serve as
much news.

Taken from a true understanding of these steps and pathways, could
fortify and repair, extending to them the border guards, because they
cut these avenues, and the Choelechel, the other campaigns were free,
and to Buenos Aires, Rio and Black populations they shook hands on
the ground for communication, for the breeding and promotion of livestock,
and the extension of their populations.

See then that were so big advantages to the province, and even to the entire kingdom and safety recognition
of these steps.

The huge Indian they fall to provide themselves with horses and cattle,
is a lobster, pest or its destruction, that had it not been a very
long and very fertile fields, I would not breed.

The end does not hurry, give an idea of ??his wealth safe and propagation; ceasing this cause
will be most advantageous for increased trade corambre that, as a result of earth, deserves attention
for being the first permanent and non-poor. The populations of Buenos Aires fields would go take
another increase and extension, particularly if they were met them to neighbors, who live on farms
scattered uninhabited, as is mandated by repeated royal decrees: for this concealment is perjudicialísimo
the spiritual good of those souls, and real legislation, for lack of instruction in our holy
Christian dogmas; rarely frequent the sacraments of Penance and Eucharist, and have almost no, recognize
or obey and whom to fear: so that differ little from the savage Indians.

This method of government is the destruction of themselves, because
the lot extension, which mediates one farm to another, leaves room
for the Indians to steal cattle, engage and kill their inhabitants,
whose misfortunes contribute to a greater part of which often go to
these infidels, communicating news and safe routes to their invasions,
so any spoil.

I heard on the Black River by the Indians, and that made voyages both expressed Godoy and Gonzales
pawns in this evil in our time have been repeated instances I made the Viceroy Lord to punish
them with rigor egemplar is learned have committed such horrific
crime, and realized together to know one of these ungodly who led
them: that was so extreme cruelty, which were not exempt from it their
own parents, whom he killed in one of the entries made with the Indians.

Populations

reduced to the neighbors of these farms will have different instructions and government and
through standards which are scored, there sugetos knowledge of the missing at people, and may
be known for another facility of his whereabouts.

I can not ignore, for a lot of knowledge acquired in the five years
I've been trying these savages in the Black River, how useful is the
method we observe the French in their Indies with such barbarians,
and with what reason we are recommended by Lord Ward in its draft
economic.

Without me the news milder these rules, I followed, and is notorious good harmony that I have kept
with them, and how useful it has been the promotion of the establishment: and can not be said
to be the best to are those that these fields, because there have busy on here hurt us.