 On this day, the more bulldozers, the most
sage or the richest of each place where it is often available and send as soon as available and
sent, is designated by the nickname facetiously cacique, which is no less offensive to their
fellow citizens, who are implicitly a skilled or semi-wild Indians. But when there was or when
there will be no bosses, but with another name or nickname of denote? Since before Cadmus
furnished to Greece, and even before that Saturn reigned in Italy in Greece and Italy were chiefs.
What's in Spain was very vicious from from ancient times Gerions of those in vain we Osiris
and Hercules freed Egyptian, because after this unfortunate country ruled almost without interruption
a long series of not less ferocious tyrants. See, then, how old ailment chieftaincy is everywhere,
and very uniquely in Spain and how such a scourge can not be regarded as deplorable novelty introduced
and implemented between us constitution or political system of fashion.

Be all that as it should be, and regardless of the thesis, if snow and mud is permissible betray
any, you can ensure that the novel is very pleasant and quiet reading until tragedy occurs that
ends. And you can be sure that Mr. D. José Joaquín Domínguez writes very pure elegance and
delicate taste, and lets us know, without affecting and without fanfare importunate, who has studied
well to our classics and the ancient learned Greek and Roman, not slavishly copy any of them, but
putting in style flavor and aroma, as providing new wine in old wine sill and generous than the
old glass contains.

I would like to here news of other recently published stories and novels. Harvest as I indicated,
is abundant in this century and it was in the past. I flinch, then strain to my readers. And
without prejudice to undertake again the task of critical Another time when I feel less tired
I confine myself now to quote from their titles Thomas I, D. Jose Jesus Garcia, printed in
Almeria to Gondar and Fortaleza, the Marquis Figueroa, Floor, and D. Sebastian Gomila, edition of
Barcelona in the shade of the mosque, Cordoba stories by D. July Pellicer, Woman of Ojeda (Alicante,
1901), by D. Gabriel Miró, trifles, stories and articles, by Don Alfonso Jara, and bulk to
the Coracha, by and held in high esteem and Malaga Don Arturo Reyes.

Today, finally, only give an account of a novel by a writer from Seville, already known scholar
and also elegant and witty poet. As a novelist, not I know that D. Luis Montoto, the writer
whom I allude, has published anything before writing and publishing the novel entitled The four
pennies. As a lyric poet he knew me and I felt much long. In the intellectual and literary activity
that is central Sevilla, is among the most illustrious writers.

With his novel The four farthings is now to register, surely among the best and most original
novelists in Spain.

The story tells us is immediately taken from reality. Everything about her, rather than fiction,
has traces of a transcript of things that have been witnessed, not
for nothing that invented, but on events and people who are remembered.

And yet, of such events and persons that appear vulgar to start the story, emerges and evolves after
the charming poetry.

Don Antonio, the main character, the owner of the four pennies, we are shown at the beginning shy, spoiled
with riches, selfish and even perverted and vicious, it dragged violent passions, but by weakness
of character.

The interest of this curious novel, what makes us really nice, is
not the transformation or change, because nothing changed or transformed,
but the emergence becoming clearer and more shiny goodness, nobility
and sweetness of the soul of D. Antonio, who is throwing little little
miseries and vices of weakness made, and ends up shining in her nakedness
spiritual, clean, immaculate, rich in caring affections.

The moral worth of at sight insignificant D. Antonio will rise gradually
that, in our opinion, is transfigured and appears surrounded by nice
glow