 That would run all right. The country did not think the country
did not act, the country was an idiot. It was therefore necessary that the State should think
and work for him, because only State was smart. As this could not be done, Pez was reflected
in his spirit always sad and concerned that sovereign indifference of all things. We felt superior
his contemporaries, at least looked more, something better discerned, and as he could not take
to reality, hence their phlegmatic calm. Mentally comforting stroking his principles, amid the
general confusion. To watch in fantasy the regeneration of Spain, eyes from the corruption of
morals, of that contempt of all laws which was rife ... Oh, happy fish will be assessed with
the deposit of principles that had in your body. She loved the pure moral rectitude inflexible,
and his conscience was indemnified of the outrages he saw everywhere ... Would to God that
this ideal should not depart from its soul ... So he was not vanish at the touch of such rascals,
like God ...

I do not know the time that no deviation between that second and a
discreet tap like me Dona Candida resulted in the knee ...

"Are you
distracted?" - He said.

- No, no, Slovakia, lady ... I was listening
to Don Manuel, who ...

- If D. Manuel has come out to the terrace.

Serafinita Lantigua is telling the death of her husband.

I am horrified ...

- Oh, me too ... horripiladísimo.

XXVIII

Indolent wandered the terrace, as if they were long, Fish, Rosalie and sister of the mayor. This
was the home of the sommelier, and the elegant couple was left alone ... D. Poor Manuel was truly
pitiful. Religious monomania and his wife came to so annoying end could not bear it ... "What
do you think?, I hear both Serafinita incocoraba the story, so old and resobado of their hardships,
I was hoping to run away ... That Canturri voice choir and those sighs of funeral my nerves
... I I am religious and believe that the Church commands, but these people who sleep with
God God rises and I feel in my stomach. Serafinita That is what has brains sucked my poor Carolina,
is the author of my misery and loathing I have my own home ... Oh, my dear, you do not know
what the disease is so sad the horror of home ... Fortunately you do not know ... I would be
gone all day, and apparently there ... Insensibly get used to regard as home ownership the my
friend's house, and not a moment I thought the comparison is between the heat friendly of dry cold
here and there ... I am a man who can not live without love. It gives me as necessary as air.
Without it choking me, I die. Where I find, my store har And there I was ...».

Isabelita and Alfonsin ran past. Iban suffocation, sweaty, so much had struggled on the third floor
gallery with Irene and the girls from the chef. "Child, how are you !...-- said Rosalia, arresting the
girl -. Your face is like a cooked crab ... Now run air ... Get home, do not constipated ... And
this rogue ...? Do you see how it comes?, All broken and made an Adam. Look what your knees ...
If you put an iron suit as well as break ...».

"How funny barbie!

Skin is the devil ... This will be a man "- said kissing fish, and
also kissing the girl.

- Dame rooms - said little cheeky.

- Do you
see what rascal?

... Boy! ... What is it? ... Pay no attention. Has a bad habit ask for rooms to everyone. I do not
know where to have learned such tricks. It's a laugh ... A Later I took them they saw His Majesty
... I have not spent more embarrassment in my life! There was no way to make them speak a word
of a sudden, this rascal is planted, look at Queen with the most shameful thing in the world
and extending their manocita ... "Give me quarters'. His Majesty laughed.

- Well, sir early, making rooms.

- What do you do? If they want to buy crap ... This fool does not ask, but when they are given
the shot. Do not think that is spendthrift.

Quia!

Everything is saved in his piggy bank and already has a capital. This leaves ...

- Sale Dad ...

- Wow, a home that you enfriáis here ... I sweat, my child ... Here
I go away.

Four jumps were on the door step Cáceres, and there they went to home. Fish gave a sigh. Rosalie
brought with him a medium pink crushed, olorosísima, introduced in which the nose cup from time
to time, as if to suck once all The aroma contained therein. This flower was worthy cover
nose so pretty.

"For you - Pez said returning to his theme quejumbrón - will at last put out of your home that
... I'm so sticky and impertinent. "

She must answer that there was no use to remove someone, and he, brightening,
he apologized their attachment to the Bringas family ... Deprive the
comfort of such diseases would have been a cruelty and in the vernacular,
the attraction ... Yes, this was the word, the focus of Attraction
... "I find it is both my friend and my friend incomparable.

You he understands me better and no one. It particular, the day I can not change two words you think
I'm missing something, seem to have no juice to drink the roots of life appears to be dried sap
...».

Fish pulled toward the poetic and philosophical, and Rosalia, hearing him with bulging of vanity
and nose, crushed against the rose, whose fragrance enveloped them both off.

"This irresistible sympathy is stronger than me. Ban you come and see how it dies a consecrated
life in the family once, and always serve the country ..., will you the most damage you can
do to a man ... without benefit to anyone ...».

She should not be very unfriendly, because the other expressed his
desire to see more often ... When the poor Bringas be cured, why were
not to be frequently and so they could speak with some freedom ...?

Still had much to say, but it was not possible to extend the short walk. Arriving at the door
of the house, went Isabelita to meet his mother with innocent glee yelling: "Dad sees Daddy is! ".
Rosalie and Fish hastily entered, possessed of such good news joy
and D. saw Francisco who was walking at full length in the band raised
Gasparini, gesturing, so nervous and excited that seemed insane.

"Just a little sting, a little pain ... But all I see ... To you,
dear fish, I meet younger ... Well my wife has taken fifteen years
... For the life of the coat eleven thousand virgins ...!

I am overjoyed ... Nothing but a red border on the objects, nothing more ... clarity offends
me a bit ... Matter of a few days ... Hold me, wife, hugging all
...».

- Do not sing victory, victory songs soon - Rosalie said, suddenly
smitten by a sad thought amidst their joy -.

Should we fear a relapse ... To be you, I do not I would remove the bandage.

- What is this? - Said the doctor, which came without warning -.

"Jarana have? What raids are those, Bringas friend? The band ... It should not be trusted yet.

-
They never should. A little more patience, man. Then the bathrooms ...

- What bathrooms? ... I'm not going to bathroom - leaving Thiers said to the band by the authorized
doctor's hands -. I do not need. Do not give me potatoes.

- We'll see - the doctor said kindly -. Now to jail again. I can not escape you ahead of time,
it is possible that the prison is stretched more than usual. Let well, we very well, and if we
arrive slowly.

The evening light with which our beloved Thiers had the immense pleasure of testing the restoration
of their optical functions are slowly fading.

Finally, the room was lit only by the glow that the sun had left
in the sky behind the house Field, and he was as strong as the flame
of a fire.

Rosalie wanted to strike a light, but Bringas jumped sharply with
the observation that the light is not needed at all ... "That is,
bulb for heat ASEM us ... Excuse me, Mr. D. Manuel, but I think we
are better in the dark ... Paquito, opens up the window.

That between air, air, air ...».

Soon after, Bringas, tired of hearing the stories university told her that her son, said aloud:
"Mr. Fish ... Is not it? ".

"Not" - Paquito observed.

- Rosalie!

- Mom! - Calling the young man shouted.

A bit later, Rosalie. His stately figure, white ghost among the shadows a mystery drama brought
to the lonely room where the father and son were, surrounded by darkness and invisible.

"Has gone D. Manuel? ".

- No, it's on the balcony of La Salette, looking ... I feel I can
not see ... contemplating the radiance that has left the sun to the
west ... It is as if half the world is burning.

- Go, do not let
him alone ... Today I made a small hint about the rise of the child
and I do not think I took wrong.

Said one to me smelled see themselves ... Oh, do not forget that a quarter to nine we have for dinner.

At
that hour bye Pez, and Rosalia, exchanging his gallant trapillo gown for another and flat shoes
for a shoe sole, hemp, began to have dinner.

He complained a severe headache and would not take more than a bit of stew. Her husband begged
was collected, the more she "had enough to do so early to bed ...». Alas, the Dona Tula gathering
and you talk that talk of Fish and Serafinita, habíanle set their head like a drum ... Then
D. Manuel was able to give headaches to the rooster of the Passion
the mantra of his regrets.

It was already so their calamities that Job would stay very small.

-
Finally, the daughter, lie down to rest from all this drivel ... Needs
to be heard with patience Fish all you want to tell us, because ...
you see what he says.

We are your shoulder to cry on, and here comes the poor to relieve their pains.

Rosalie finally did what her husband told. Lifted the cloth, were turned off lights, and Paquito
manager to give your dad taking drugs later, the head of the illustrious lady sought rest
on the pillows. The dream, however, came later, after a long period of brooding failure.

XXIX

The silver candlesticks ... the risk that her husband had discovered early on that a trip to Peñaranda
de Bracamonte ... a way to avoid this ... Mr. Fish, the ideal ... Oh, what a man so extraordinary
and fascinating! What elevation view, what superiority! ... To say that he was capable, if he
left, to organize an administrative system with eighty and four Directorates-General, is that
I could give him this sovereign head ... And what delicacy and refinement of manners, which chivalrous
generosity! ... Surely, if it looked at any choke, would come to help her with that fish delicacy
gallant Bringas neither knew nor had ever shown at any time, even when he was her suitor, or
in the days of the honeymoon, past Navalcarnero ... What had been so ordinary dye his whole life
long! Until the people chosen for the inauguration was horribly marriage uneducated, unfriendly
and contrary to any notion of good taste ... Well she remembered the lady of that lugarón of
the inn in which there was not a comfortable chair to sit on, from the smell to cattle and straw,
this wine knowing fish and chops knowing those leather ... Then the pedestrian Bringas did not
speak more than vulgar things. In Madrid, the day before marriage, was not a man to spend six
rooms in a bouquet of roses to smell ... You Navalcarnero had given a botijito, and had to walk
along the grain, allowing pick poppies that loses its leaves at once. She liked very little
of the field and the only thing I would Indeed hunting was tolerable, but Bringas was afraid
of the shots, and having been in Once the mayor VENATORIA campaign, nearly killed the mayor
himself. He was a man of such poor aim that it would not even the wind ... Back in Madrid, had
begun that Unregulated married life, oppressed, made up of hardships and hypocrisies, a comedy domestic
day and night, between the methodical and routine running of the pennies and hours. She submitted
a vulgar man, had come to learn their role and represented cold like a machine without realizing
what he did. Doll that made the mother of four children one of whom died in infancy. She loved them
dearly, and thanks this, the deep appreciation grew that the doll had come to inspire ... Wanted
that had lived and the health, the faithful wife would follow him,
making his role with that skill he had given many years of hypocrisy.

But for himself ardently longed more than life and salad; wanted some, a little even he had
ever had, freedom, in and out, if only because figuratively, in that
narrow embarrassing.

Because I was in earnest, envied the beggars, as these, the bulk
that are enjoying it freely, as she ...

Venciola sleep.

Not even felt the weight of the mattress leaning Bringas. Upon awakening, the first thought of
the illustrious lady was for prisoners chandeliers.

- What are you feeling?

- I think - said the husband with a deep sigh - not as good as I expected. I awake since four. I've
heard every hour, half and quarter. Itches, pain, and the idea of ??receiving the light in
your eyes I am horrified.

Steps in the morning in great uncertainty until the doctor came. This was discouraged and somewhat
perplexed, hesitating on the medical reasons that explain the decline of poor disease Thiers.
Was it a result of some excess in the food ...? Was it an effect of belladonna and disappear
attenuating the medication?

Was it ...? In a word, convenient return to rest, not impatient, safeguard eyes absolutely
light, and since no bear to stay in bed, the chair should not move or deal with anything or
have gathering in the room ... The sadness with my good friend heard these requirements is
not for said. See, see? - Told his wife excessively nose swelling -. Behold what bags to you,
to want to heal in two days.

I've been telling you, and you ... If you a boy ...

Abatidísimo, the unfortunate man did not say a word. The whole day was in the chair, hands folded,
turning thumbs on each other. His wife and son comforted with loving words, the more he did
not give a party, and how that pain was exacerbated verbal palliatives. In the afternoon, the
intelligent fish, talking to Rosalie's case, said with much tact:

- I do not know how the first day you did not call an eye doctor ... This gentleman (for the
doctor) seems to me that I understand both eyes like a mole.

- So I said I - the lady replied, trying to express in eloquent grimace and lift shoulder the
squalor of her husband -.

But you Vayalar Bringas with these ideas. Says no, the eye doctors will not take more than money
... Not that he lacked. Has its economies ... but did not decide to spend it for their health but
in the last moment, when disease and say: "Your money or your sight."

Very funny he did to D. Manuel picturesque interpretation of the greed of his friend and talking
to him later, he suggested the idea to consult a specialist in diseases eyes. This time the
patient received no bad indication. Discouraged and impatient, felt that their economies well worth
a ray of light, only saying: "Let what you want to. "

At night, Milagros was to accompany his fellow in rags. Here, as there were no seen from the
previous week, I thought already solved the financial problem that put the Marchioness so distressed
in the last days of June. Frankly, I believed him. But both Rosalia as having the honor of
writing these lines, he noted with surprise that the aristocrat's face shone not happy those flashes
of expression that are safe Recently victory. Indeed, Telleria soon
declare their little affair was not solved but postponed.

By dint of entreaties he obtained an extension until October 10.

Ran July 7, and only took three days.

For all the saints in heaven, do you love her friend, begged him ...!

Rosalie put her finger in her mouth, recommending discretion. Was around Isabelita and this
girl had the ugly habit of having everything he heard.

It was a repeater, and its presence was forced to be very careful, because then he could not
wait to go with the story to his dad. Days before he had the good lord made you laugh with this
accusation innocent "Dad, says D. Manuel I go out to you ... in which
I keep all the rooms they give me.

"

XXX

Which earned him an affectionate squeeze and a kiss from his dad wanted.

And that night, feeling it enter her room, called her and sat on his lap. "Does your Mom ...?».

-
It's in the Saleta with Marquise - said the girl, who spoke with clarity and speed -. He told
me to come back here. The Marquise was crying because we are 7.

"We
are 7 - had said the Pipaón Milagros, clasping her hands and made
a shame - and if by day 10 I could not meet ...! I will give a stroke
... You do not know how my head. "

It had been locked, and the solitude
of the room, without light, because the master of the house was frantic
favor of obscurantism in all its manifestations, the lady sore expatiated
at home and squandered the treasure of your pain, manifesting in a
thousand ways to florida inspiration elegiac ... The day he was unfriendly.
He liked the night to prey upon the contemplation of his sentence.
Looking at the stars, she thought she felt inexplicable comfort ...
Stars like that promised something flattering, or launched into the
interior of his soul a spark metal ... It is very pilgrim kinship
with gold stars coined ... The poor do not had no hope in anything
or anyone but his girlfriend ... She had received save her ... How?
That really could not say