 

Unfortunately, the people of Seville are not satisfied with the poetic Platonism of the "gate."
Seville as a major commercial port city, and as a treasure of beauties of art and leisure, attracting singularly
especially in the Easter and spring, not only to many foreigners but also to the other Spanish
provinces. That great contest of strangers and the beauty of Seville have led to an alarming
development of corruption. I merely indicated the fact because the matter does not allow comments
or explanations. That evil is the major cancer Spanish cities.

If Sevilla are interested in the day by the whims of its cobbled streets, narrow and winding,
by the splendor of modern houses, hotels and cafes, the magnificence of its arenas, by the majesty
or the excellence of its monuments, its industrial activity and a thousand circumstances - during
the night, to the double moonlight May and thousands of gas lantern, has a particular charm. While
the gas to shine all the curiosities of stores in the shopping, and lighten the cheerful mob
swarmed by paving or the center of the squares and streets - balconies, shutters, the viewpoints and
high bars colors (usually blue and green, on yellow walls) were illuminated by the softer light
of the moon, projecting shadows on the walls Weird women, leaning over the balcony to see people go
in groups constant agitation.

At that time seemed more vivid contrast of various types.

On the one hand made game men of good society, with its broad layers of velvet and tassels around
floating and felt hats, hat called in Spain, when not wearing French avocado and black high
top hat baptized in Madrid with the nickname outrageous mushroom, while elegant ladies dragging
their ornate costumes of shining silk exaggerated in itself, without prejudice to the crinoline,
the plague of all occurrences, and boasted its graceful styling and luxurious hair, no more natural
than a flower motif, or covered with a wool cap puff of colors, or the silk scarf halter.
Y crossed to his hand, rubbing the English major (filled with wonder and curiosity), or French
(noisy and light humor), groups of nice people and my beautiful, most original aspect and
smiling.

The majo (bullfighter, or check, or shawl, or semi-artisan) cover
all his pride on the buttons his jacket, the merit of his belt and
luxury of their spats.

There is such a passion for luxury Andalusian would stop eating three days to save the value
of their shining buttoning silver, placed in double rows on the leading edges of the cloth
jacket, blue or black and full of the most cute ornaments. The wide belt, which gives many
laps around the waist and chest, down jacket (in the form of dormancy and always open), draws
attention for its vivid color (blue, crimson, red, green or yellow), the fineness of silk or wool
and weaving, and the grace of the tassels or fringe slopes of the extremities. Their abundant pin
stand freely as two beautiful bushes at the foot of the hat calanes without wings and also
adorned with some black silk tassels. Spats, from which hang tasseled and countless ribbons of
the same leather, give it a very original husk. Add dress to grace the air of smugness, a tone
loud, very marked and handsome, his hat tipped over one eyebrow, cigarette in mouth, with spitting
by Fang, the great curved blade of acute and springs out, full of carvings and ornaments, half protruding
from a pocket or below the band, and stick in hand, not yet fist with a silk or rope handle,
and sometimes spinning pinwheel when not serving strut - and you will have the full figure of Seville
nice.

As to the manola (type no longer found only in Andalusia or in the representations dramatic and carnivals),
far from being scary as the majo is extremely nice.

Always fussy and ingratiating, when in the mood and free from coercion of majo, - cantankerous
(is the word) and even contemptuous, when the gallant who speaks does not know to be accepted and
displayed vain, - the instincts of independence reveals my beautiful and very pronounced seduction.
His gait is graceful, its provocative and mocking eyes, are destroyed through the beautiful ornaments
and brightly colored fabrics; gústale much strutting arm in arm with a handsome, and watch
your hair dressing and passion. When walking is careful to show the dwarf walking shoes an
elegant slipper, and discover something the rich calf, can make you lose your gravity to an
Englishman. His costume is pompous, very snug, very high and they blend fabrics always bright
colors, especially red and yellow, its simple and elegant headdress, and his chest plump and vigorous
palpitation highlighted with black velvet or satin scarf, or the light blanket that wraps around
part of the round arm.

The worker in Seville, as I said, has many artistic and business rules
in manufacture of a crowd of curious artifacts.

The mere inspection of stores Sevilla is enough to interest the traveler. Pray draw the attention
of precious jewels, lace, the exquisite fans, plaster and wood sculptures, beautiful bands, capricious
leggings, blankets, coats and jackets or coats for popular use, the harness rare, pellon of frames,
the beautiful tapestries and sandals anyway, now cares one to observe the Indian-made weapons
from the microscopic to nearly razor the great Moorish dagger, a sword of Toledo and the fabulous
style and fearsome knife three quarters length frightening for both ends. Everything is there,
curious, in terms that he feels the temptation to buy everything to keep Andalusian museum.
As for me, impressions were so vivid that I keep my museum in memory. Sevilla has left me so vividly
recorded in the mind as if it had been there a long time.

Impossible I would make a detailed description of the business and artistic treasures that is Sevilla.
A residence of five days was not enough for a neat observation, and
though it was, I am not able to speak properly for fine arts.

Out very pass my most vivid impressions.

Since then, the cathedral is the great wonder of the Andalusian metropolis. It is an enormous
mass stone, Gothic fifteenth century, almost entirely, because the
back is Renaissance, completed much later, - a circumstance that produces
a disagreeable contrast.

The church has no tower and main façade is incomplete, lacking major busts and ornaments of
their own time. Completed slowly over a long course of time, appears on the outside as a monument
dislocated, however the majesty and boldness their bows and air strongholds that seem to make
a silent invocation to heaven. Greatness the cathedral (the first in Spain without dispute, in
some respects) is in the interior. Such is his wealth of marble, its single large tile flooring
black and white has cost the large sum of 125.000 dollars. It measures a total length (with
prolongation of the royal chapel) of 417 feet, 315, latitude and elevation, starting 53 feet
in hoods rises to 104 in the aisles, to 145 in the main and to 171 in the dome or dome that dominates.
As seen, the proportions are colossal.

Its five vast warehouses are imposing majesty, especially central, whose admirable handcrafted
stone columns resting on numerous formidable and daring is a lightness and remarkable courage.
Ninety-three windows ogival windows (by the century XVI) is beautiful
for its fineness and color, and the choir stalls is one of the richest
and best work I've seen in the Gothic cathedrals.

The frescoes of the dome are beautiful, like the exquisite work of monumental gates that enclose
the choir. Can be considered contain many beauties of art that cathedral, just know that she has worked
on one hundred ninety-six notable artists, some of them eminent and first order. And However,
by some strange neglect, ignore the name of the architect to draw the plan such a great monument.

If
the two colossal bodies are superb in every way, and the walls, small chapels and vaults have
a hundred beauties to admire, to penetrate to the royal chapel and the chapter house (Making a sudden
transition from the gloomy solemnity of the Gothic to the flowery creations Greco-Roman art) are beauties
of sculpture and paintings and reliefs and works delicate architecture that are of great merit.
There is revealed in works immortal genius Murillo, Herrera and other great masters, alongside
much higher sculptors.

In the royal chapel worship the statue of Ferdinand the Catholic and are among other notable graves
Don Alonso the sage and his mother Dona Beatriz.

The sacristy contains immense wealth in jewels and sacred vessels, and is prodigious pomp displays
the clergy Seville during Holy Week for the headdress and robes of the Virgin. How much misery
would not be alleviated if the Catholic Church renouncing luxury of ostentation that offends
the supreme majesty and heritage of the Godhead, and undermines the noble simplicity Christianity,
to renounce the pagan customs and dedicated to the education and
welfare the immense treasures that lie unproductive in the sacristy!

* * * * *

The Alcazar of Seville, universal popularity, is without question one of the most beautiful monuments
Arabic architecture, but in no way can be compared to the Alhambra.

       Truth eminent is that this is an exceptional situation, while the
Fortress is like hiding in the very heart of Seville, scarcely 500
meters from the cathedral.

Begun by the Moors in 1111 and completed in its lower or first body in 1181, was the residence
of the kings Moors until the reconquest of Seville in 1247. Touched him Don Pedro the Cruel
construction the second floor, which completed the building. A vast courtyard, surrounded by ancient
walls, giving access the Alcazar, whose exquisite facade, a simple construction but reliefs or
curd arabesques, announces the beauties splendor indoors.

The whole building is reduced to two series of large rooms or apartments, generally square and
superimposed on two floors. The bottom of the walls and the pavements are made up of cute thin
brick tiles or earthenware, vivid colors, with the most graceful
figures or drawings.

The top of each wall, from middle to high coffered ceilings, plaster stucco or wood, plays in
general, with incredible profusion, the same ornaments flowers or arabesques that make the charm
of the Alhambra, always repeating forms those exquisite filigree cast, but without losing that grace
of contours, surprising finesse lines everywhere, and vivid color in dazzling combinations.
As Don Pedro the Cruel Arab artists employed at the completion of building works of art are
completely homogeneous. Coffered ceilings or roofs, mainly cedar are implementing a delicate
taste.

The Alcazar, full of light by the nature of its construction, it has in its halls and rooms
that air of delight and dark mystery that dominates the Alhambra. In all Alcázar is cheerful
and bright, and from the windows and overhanging balconies of the
interior parts it has all the charming spectacle offered by the huge
garden surrounding the eastern palace.

What dramatic traditions that place where races and dynasties reigned enemy! If the hall of the Ambassadors
away by its magnificence and its magnificent dome, evokes many stories and legends with fresco
portraits of kings Goths who hold on the roof. Already feels overwhelmed with horror to cross the
room where he was killed Fadrique by order of his brother Don Pedro, already destiene to ponder,
visiting the bedroom where the king slept cruel, blood on the dramas of jealousy and distrust terrible
were the result of dark musings of the man in her care, and in Finally, when descending to the
courtyard of the Dolls (which had its large berries bathrooms) and penetraren where once underground
voluptuous princesses bathe eastern and more late Doña María de Padilla, one shudders thinking about
the dual use of those underground created for the delight and turned into the tomb. There, in
one of the wet cells without any air or light, was his imprisonment and martyrdom that woman
so famous memory.

The garden, which is about three hectar of the total area is enclosed by a high wall which
itself is a monument. Yet he is full of arabesques, of precious columns, frescoes, inscriptions
and a thousand ornaments so beautiful. What I admire is that these beauties art, exposed to the
weather after so many centuries (for such is the construction of
walls) are perfectly preserved and remain as models of Arabic art.

It would be impossible fully describe this wonderful garden (so especially in Europe) without
filling many pages poetic language which seems exaggerated. Apart from the interest of the
interior facade the Alcazar and the high walls that frame the room, the very bottom of the
garden is lovely by a whole as well as for its beautiful details. While walking through its
maze of myrtle symmetrically cut, its thick groves of oranges and pomegranates, their vast agglomerations
shrubs and flowering plants, as bright as art in some places, so graciously unequal in others,
and to penetrate all sanctuaries of vegetables that fill the precinct, will create one as transported
to the Eastern Edens.

Everything there is voluptuous, smiling, tempting. And have fun in trying to find an early exit the maze
of myrtle, or in deciphering the allegories of all shapes drawn on the ground through the same
myrtle bushes neatly arranged, and it has to admire the groups of flowers, water games ingenious
and surprising, the numerous sources Arabic forms and the marble
steps where the Andalusian sun shines with all its splendor.

Pray you do get to wander, dreaming and remembering a thousand stories, under the thick shade of
the woods of oranges, lemons and pomegranates, where you feel the delicious produce intoxication
orange blossom and jasmine, basil and roses in profusion. Ora in short, the noise of the sources
and the singing of the birds inhabitants of the garden is resting with delight, sitting on
ottomans marble, under the leadership of beautiful pavilions of different styles, built in the center
vegetable those toilets that seem to evoke the shadows of the sultanas and traditions of the Moorish civilization.
The Alcazar is a delightful monument. Your type is the smiling freshness. They lack the grandeur
that characterized the Alhambra. So, after leaving the old mansion Don Pedro the Cruel, feels
heavy and unpleasant air of the street and takes a sweet printing, but not experienced the sadness
that accompanies the traveler to stay away from sites and impressive monuments of the old fortress
of Boabdil.

* * * * *

La Lonja, next to the cathedral, is a beautiful and elegant monument that honors to its architect,
the famous Herrera

       

.