 That once
all costs were passed along his horse galloped Sunday and whipped with as if the rider whip
punish him for any sudden viciousness or have been afraid.

During the time of ride Sunday was distracted and kept as long as
possible his horse to gallop.

Sunday was low amateur at sea had grown up - he said - listening to their cries and remembered
this time in disgust, only more cheerful lack of walking paths we adopted that direction. However,
seen from the top of the stream that followed the flat horizon land and sea, were a surprising
grandeur from having been empty. Moreover, the continuous movement of the waves and the stillness
of the plain, the contrast from passing ships, with the houses that were stationary, and adventurous
life life determined by analogy, should impress and tasted very strongly secretly certainly,
with pleasure own acre of the pleasures of the mind that cause suffering. Al the evening we
returned to step short of the rocky roads nestled between the fields whose land was carved recently
blackish. The larks were flying at ground level fleeing with one last shudder of days on the wings.
So we came to the vineyards and left us the salt air of the coast. From the bottom of the plain
stood a warmer breath. Shortly after we walked under the blue shade of large trees and often
was already closed night when they cast dismounted in the courtyard
of Trembles.

In the evening we met again in a large room equipped with antique furniture, a wide clock marked
the hour, so vibrant was her reaching chime to be heard until the upper rooms. It was impossible to
evade the monotonous noise that woke us up with only the beat of its pendulum, and many times we
were surprised Sunday and I listen to each other in silence the harsh murmur second to second
led us from one day to another. We attended to slaughter the kids to bed at night which was
played by indulgence in the classroom, and whom the mother had a
bed, all wrapped in white cloth, arms hanging and eyes closed as in
sleep.

At ten o'clock we parted. I returned to Villanueva, or later when the nights were rainy and dark and
the road less traveled, I kept him in Trembles. I had my property on the second floor in a
corner of the building coming to one of the turrets. Another time, during his youth, he held Sunday
this very room. From window was discovered across the plain, all Villanueva and even the high
seas, and fell asleep listening the sound of wind in the trees and the hum of the waves had lulled
to Sunday in childhood. The next day everything recommenced as above, with the same fullness
of life, the same accuracy in the distractions and work. The only domestic accidents I was able to attend
were indicative of the station, which disturbed the symmetry of the customs; as, for example,
a rainy day that changes the counting arrangements good weather.

On such days, Sunday was up to his office. I apologize to the reader to these little details and
others that will follow, but they allow you to penetrate slowly and by the same indirect ways
than myself led me, life of the gentleman farmer in consciousness of man, and perhaps in particular
will find it less vulgar. These days, said, Sunday was up to his office, ie retrograding three
or four years and revived the past few hours. In that room had some thumbnails family a portrait of
him, from when I was very young and her face surrounded by pink and brown curls; a picture in
which there was no facial features similar to those of men for the present; some labeled bundles in a
stack of papers and two libraries: an ancient, the other entirely modern manifested by special
selection of books, in fact predilections applied in your life. A small cabinet containing dusty school
books only; volumes of study and award. Add to all this an old desk riddled with stains Ink and
knife strokes and a beautiful world map dating back half a century in which were drawn by hand
the most chimeric circuits throughout all countries of the earth. In addition to those examples of
his student life, respected and preserved with real caring for a man who was older, had other stuff
that corresponded revealing his inner life than he had been, I had thought that my duty to
known, although they have a lot of childishness. Refiérome to what was seen on the walls,
on shelves, in glass, many easy to decipher secrets.

Leíanse mostly complete dates - day, month and year .-- frequent indication was reproduced in
series with sequence data from different years, as many had mainly followed identical to finding
something, whether its presence somewhere material or thought on the same subject. It was rare
signature at the bottom of the inscriptions, but were not limited less revealing of personality
that was conceived and recorded. There was also one basic geometrical figure. Above, the same
figure was reproduced with one or two lines Rather than change the meaning without changing
the principle and repeated with new changes came to correspond to particular meanings involving
the triangle or circle original, but with different results. In the midst of these allegories,
of which he was difficult to tell, were written some very concise maxims and many verses all
contemporary work that reflects on the human identity in progress. Most part were written
in pencil, because the poet timidly or they disdain stamped stay pay too much drawing in a way
that perpetuated on the wall. Monograms in which it was linked with a capital D, is highlighted
on the first verse many of those poems more definite meaning, memories of more recent times without
doubt. Suddenly, as the revelation of a return to a more painful mysticism or higher, had written
- probably by a fortuitous coincidence with the poet Longfelow - Excelsior, Excelsior, Excelsior,
repeated between a portion of exclamation marks. Then tell of a time that could be calculated around
the date of their marriage, clearly warned that is out of indifference or perhaps the result
of a strong determination, adopted the party not to write more. Do we judge that had been completed
and the posthumous evolution its existence? Or thought, rightly, that nothing could henceforth fear
about that self-identity he had so carefully set up to then? And last one date was very visible
to all others and coincided exactly with the age of John, the her first child was born.

A large concentration of spirit, an active and intense self-observation, instinct to rise too
high each time more and mastered not never lost sight; transformations skid of life with the
will to recognize themselves in each new face, the nature is understanding,
feelings that are born and nurtured a young heart soften their own
substance, the name that is linked to other verses and escaping from
him like the smell of a flower in spring failed efforts towards the
high peaks of the ideal, peace, in short, made in a spirit stormy,
perhaps ambitious, tormented by insurance chimeras, behold, if I mistake
not, what could be read on that record mute, the more significant
its confusing mnemonic many memoirs.

The soul of thirty years of existence still shaken, pounded in the narrow enclosure, and when
Dominic was in it before Me, looking out the window, a little distracted and perhaps even persecuted
by the echo of ancient rumors, it was a matter of whether he had come to evoke what he called
the shadow of himself or to forget.

One day she took a package of books placed in a dark corner of the library, I did sit, opened
one of the volumes and without further preamble began reading softly. They were poems about matters
too worn after many years of country life, of hurt feelings or sad passions. The verses were good,
an ingenious mechanism, free, unplanned, but little lyrical short, although the author's intentions
were much. Feelings were weak, but vulgar, and weak ideas. Apart form that, I repeat, by their
rare qualities disagreed sharply with the undeniable weakness of the fund, it seemed that trial
of a young man in verse expands and is believed poet because some music interior puts you in the
way of the cadences and urges him to speak with words rhymed.

Such, at least, I think, and not having to keep considerations why the author, whose name unknown,
gave it to meet Sunday with the same harshness that I write now.

- I then tried the poet, and well judged, neither more nor less than himself. Would you used
as brave if I had known that the verses were mine?

- Absolutely - I said a bit bewildered.

- So much the better. That shows me - continued Sunday - the same thing on me rather than in
poor esteem you what I'm worth. Two other volumes of force similar to this one. Also are mine.
Have the right to deny it because they do not contain my name, but
would not you, of course, the person to hide weaknesses I know that
sooner or later you in full.

I, like many others, I owe anything to these trials failed relief and useful lessons. Showing
me that I am nothing, I've done has given me far those who are something.

What I say is modest half, but you will not miss that does not distinguish
modesty of pride when you know how I am permitted to confuse them.

There were two men on Sunday: it was not difficult to guess. "Every man carries within himself
one or many dead ", I had that case, the doctor, who also suspected an great renunciation in
the life of peasant Trembles. But that no longer existed, was there, even, given signs of
life? And to what extent? What time? Had he betrayed some After his incognito with more than
two books anonymous and ignored? ...

I took the two books that had not opened Sunday, the title was known to me. The author, whose
name had not had time to penetrate deep into the memory of people who read, occupied to honor
a mid-level post in the political literature of fifteen years ago. No Bids had informed me that
he lived and wrote yet. It was part of the small discrete number of writers who are never
known anything but the title of their works whose name reaches fame
without them out of the shadows, and may disappear or be removed the
world without the public, which does not communicate with them more
than for his writing, comes to know what one has been.

I repeated the titles of the books and the author's name, watched Sunday, and understanding you
guessed it, grinned and said:

- Above all you linsonjee no publicist to console the poet. The real difference more is that between
the two is that the press has dealt with the first and not made equal after the second. If
I had reason to be silent about the one, not wrong to While welcoming
the other?

He had many reasons - continued - to change the name as soon as I serious reasons to keep anonymous
reasons that did not emanate only from considerations literary prudence
and modesty well understood.

You see I did well, since nobody knows today that he who signed my books prosaically be concluded
mayor of his town and vineyards.

- "And do not you write? - I asked.

- Ah, no! ... That's it. Moreover, since I have nothing to do, I can say I do not have time
for anything. As for my son, here's what I think about it. If I had become what I am not,
consider that the family had Bray produced enough, that his mission
was accomplished, my son just had to find rest.

But Providence has provided otherwise, the roles are exchanged.

Is this better or worse for him? I leave the outline of an incomplete life he completed, if
I remember correctly. Nothing just, everything is transmitted up to expectations.

After leaving the room inhabited by ghosts dangerous which included a multitude of temptations should
harass, Sunday around being the farmer Trembles. He ran a loving words to his wife and children,
took the shotgun, called the dogs and if heaven smiled going to end the day in the field soaked
with water.

Lasted until November that easy life, family, without major expansions, but leaving Sunday sober
and confident that knew how to put in everything that was not mixed with issues his personal life.
Liked the field as a child and made no secret, but spoke of him as
a man living in the countryside, not writer who sings it.

There were words I never uttered his lips, because I never met a man who was more bashful than he
in a certain order of ideas, and confession of feelings called poetry was an ordeal that was
well above of their forces.

The field had a passion so sincere, though contained in the form, filled it voluntary delusions
and urged him to forgive many things to the villagers but they recognize ignorant and full
of defects and even vices.

He lived in constant contact with them, but did not share their customs, and tastes even one
of their prejudices. The extreme simplicity his suit, his ways and his life was all pretext of superiority
that none of the who treated him had suspected. All in Villanueva had been born, grow, and then
some years of absence turn to their home country and settle in it. There were old for whom with forty-five
years and was always Dominguito, but of all who passed daily Trembles near the castle and recognized
on the second floor, right hand, that room it was his teenage boy's room, not one suspected, indeed,
the world ideas and feelings between him and them.

I talked about that Dominic received visits and meet me again on this matter because an event
which was, to some extent, control, and that impressed him deeply.

Among the friends gathered as usual to celebrate Trembles Saint Hubert was one of the oldest
comrades Sunday, called D'Orsel, very rich, lived in retirement,
it was said, no family, a castle to a dozen miles from Villanueva.

D'Orsel was the same age as his old comrade, although her hair blond
and shaved his face were party to represent some years younger.

He was nice guy, dressed very well, distinguíanle seductive ways so cultured, and an inveterate dandyism
in the gestures and words, which were a real attraction. In his whole moral being abandoned or much
indifference or much pretense. Was enthusiastic about hunting and horses, and having adored
travel and not travel. Parisian by adoption, almost by birth, one day it was learned who had left
Paris without anyone being able to determine the cause of this withdrawal, and had gone to lock
himself in his castle Orsel all alone.

His life was truly strange.

As a place of refuge and oblivion leaving see very little, not having anyone, did not explain
his behavior rather than because of despair, since he was a man still young, rich, in whom it
was reasonable to assume, if no great passions, burning alive at least very different character.
Uneducated, but hearsay had acquired a degree of intellectual culture, expressed lofty contempt
for books and deep sympathy for those who devoted themselves to writing. To do that! After all
the existence is well cut and not worth it to take many concerns ... And more talent holding
the view that common logic of the broken hearted justify anything more than that was considered
one of them. What had to be more sensitive in that character - a bit fuzzy, as if covered with a layer
of dust alone, and original features of which were beginning to wear - a sort of passion was
indecisive and not extinct at the same time, the luxury, large artificial pleasures and vanities
of life.