 

It's harder than it seems to show ingenuity, discretion, tact and, above all, art in trivialities
and pettiness that is the subject forced the beginning of the visits "in full" we all do, which makes
the whole world. It is easier to win a battle to enter on time and well toned in those worthless
symphonies of comedy that will represent later. I have the courage to declare, as I'm concerned,
I almost always I see in these trances, he entered at the wrong time and tune, and the more
I endeavor to amend the blunders, the worse I get. But so help me comfort that I view it more
blunders mine and to enormous inconvenience and nonsense where fewer were expected for the quality
refined actors. Well, precisely in the same dangerous trance was where I started I foresee the 'quarry'
of that young man, bare-chested and almost child clothes, mediquillo simple of a hamlet buried
in mountains, in the presence of a smart Madrid, tired running the idle rich world, and certainly
not by what I said or what he did, but for the opposite: so shut up and so did not want to do,
or better yet he knew so well just shut up and sit still, and choose what I said and how to
say. Everyone has a desire to be a bit sharp, a little funny and a little naughty in front of
people, hence the follies and inconveniences, and almost anyone it happens to be sincere, which,
good education and a dash of common sense, have no guarantee of becoming "evil" there or anywhere,
it is not loose at the time warranty essentially communicative reach. For full sincerity, and
at its highest degree, together with a good understanding, was the first thing which I took
to see in the mediquillo of Tablanca.

Speaking of the illness of my uncle told me it was fatal. Was ... (And here laughing stopped to
ask forgiveness for the words she was going to drop) in a dilation
heart ... asystolic state ...

- In current Castilian - added with
a gesture and a very natural and expressive gesture - is the old machine
whose body begins to decompose.

It hindered the wheel of the heart could be impeded as another major. For some of them had to
start the inevitable ruin. When consumed it, when the machine stops, it is not possible to calculate
a date fixed either by me or by those who know of these things I
do: the same can stand inside six months at the moment.

What is certain is that there is no time machine.

Although it was well persuaded me, confirming my suspicions as authorized by lips I was a very painful
effect. Apart from the blood ties that bound me to Don Celso, personal qualities in him that made
him very sticky to the affection of those who treated him.

Speaking of his illness, he sought other similar and many others, without seeming to them, had, however,
the same dismal outcome: death of the patient, and already this way, we ended the proverbial
"discouraged" by the learned in the "healing art" as collate and
compare the resources of his science with the miserable man's physical
condition; only that the boy that, in agreeing with me on the ineffectiveness
of medicine in most cases of hardship, not her hands to her head,
or reneged on the human capacity, nor was any hope that they would
go and slowly fixing these problems' heroes and the martyrs of science
"on the contrary, without denying that studying hard was ascertained
something more than what was known in the art, given the current failures,
and even the coming for one thing needful, and which already had him
to begin his studies, ie not I noticed the slightest spark of enthusiasm
for his profession, nor the slightest sign of disappointment to practice
playing it their poor resources.

Declaróme honestly and fairly so was true, and with this and a little cunning mine, we were
going step by step on the field I wanted to drive you, or better, knowing it was all I needed
to just met "inside."

He was a native of Robacio (like Chisco), and his father, Don Servando Celis, a man of art Celso
my uncle, had hoped to make health care because he already had another son, the eldest, studying
law at Valladolid.