 Amparo, that would not be rubbing by anyone, he said each time, although at all
times stand in contradiction with itself, irresistible grip of a frenzy, with eyes blazing with
anger, raised his hand taking off and dumped in the clean and bruised hero's cheek a resounding
slap.

The reader's hair stood on end securely to represent what happens there after of this barbaric
act and unheard. Perhaps it would be to leave him in suspense as the famous Hero Battle manchego and
Vizcaya. However, to avoid needlessly tormenting curiosity, we hasten to say what happened disdaining
this resource effect. The case was not tragic, Fortunately, while worthy of attention and meditated
upon at length.

The Duke put his hand the site of the incident and said smiling kindly:

-
Demon Amparito did not think you had such a heavy hand!

The former, which had turned white after start thoughtless, stunned by the strange out of the
banker. It took a few seconds to realize his sincerity.

- You're a big girl - followed that by throwing an arm around his neck and forcing her to sit
again, and he with her -.

This slap would rate not less than one hundred dollars any expert intelligent. Strong, sound,
timely .... Meets all the conditions can wish for ....

- Come on, do not joke, I have today very bad blood - Amparo said,
flaking and provides other rage time.

- No joke, and the proof is
that I will pay you on the spot.

But very careful with that Dávalos Manolito come back here because you do not return to see the
color of my tickets.

- If it was a coincidence, man! - Amparo said softening -. Wine tonight because had been on
a bender with Leo and Raphael, and late Nati occurred to me a visit.

- Well Enough coincidences.

I do not aspire to adore me, you know, but I do not want to pay dear
to those dissolute blue blood.

Have you heard, salt shaker?

At the same time his hand to his pocket for his wallet. His face, smiling with the triumphant expression
of that in his pocket the key to all the joys of this world suddenly
shrank.

A cloud passed sudden concern for him. Eagerly sought. The portfolio was not in that place. Happened
to the other pockets. Same thing.

- F. ...! I have stolen the wallet!

Amparo looked at him with eyes which reflected the doubt.

- F. ...! I have stolen the wallet! - She cried more energetic -.

I have stolen ten thousand-odd hard!

- Well, well, what's the weather guasoncillo! - Said Amparo and angry
again.

Penetration did not to distinguish the true from feigned shock.

- Yes, yes, it has not been a bad joke! Damn my luck!

If when one day begins badly! ... Three thousand dollars bail and
about eleven thousand now .... Well, sir, has not been misused morning!

He

rose abruptly from the sofa and began to pace the room, seized with
a shaking surprising many millions who had.

A torrent of words, grunts, of dirty interjections expressing too
much to live his disgust, he escaped from his lips.

Threw furiously smoking, that it was a sign of grave concern. Amparo, seeing him so excited
surrendered to the evidence, and concerned also at the event said:

- You might not have won the.

You might lose it .... Where have you been?

- Do you think I have ever been lost eleven thousand dollars? - Said in a bitter tone standing
front of it -. That is, you lose, yes, but others found before reaching the ground.

Having just say this, was suddenly suspended, as a saving light shine in your brain. Searching
eyes looked for a few moments to his mistress, and making an effort
smile, he said, turning to sit next to her:

- But what animal I am!

What a salty little joke, and how well you've laughed at me!

- What? - Amparo asked dumbfounded.

- Give me your wallet, rogue!

Give me your wallet.

And the Duke, or mock-sincere laugh, threw her arm round my neck and started on one side and other hands
like looking for the place where I had hidden the money.

Giving a jolt off the girl of his arms and stood up:

- Hey, you .... Do I take it for a thief? - Exclaimed angrily.

- No, but by a guasoncilla.

Have you wanted to laugh at me, right?

The girl replied forcefully that he was joking and that was enough
of jokes, that she would not to tolerate in this area.

The Duke insisted yet, but seeing the real outrage his mistress and not having any data to
suppose that it was she who took away the portfolio collected candles.

As lost this hope, her face clouded again.

Although he gave satisfaction Amparo, they were not very hot. Quedábale,
basically, the doubt.

Well what he perceived it went so angry. He concluded by saying:

- Look, the best thing to do is go to lunch.

I do not want more stories .... Ah! and not forget to bring me tonight
twine, which is making me really need .... Unless you prefer you send
home accounts ....

Duke came out cursing the glittering little hotel.

As there was in the vicinity cars and refused to use that of her
beloved, though he paid, he went on foot to home.

Fell into it like a bomb, no gunpowder or dynamite, because they
entered his temper deafening procedures, but sulfuric acid or corrosive
sublimate spread throughout it stuck and scorched the inhabitants.

His wife, the porter, cook, Llera and nearly all employees were in the middle of the face
a sentence pronounced gross the cynical, mocking tone that characterized his speech. After lunch
shut himself in the desk with his temper in tow.

There was a time that there was, when they entered to warn a driver point wanted to talk to
him.

- What do you want?

- Do not know.

Want to talk to the Duke.

This, suddenly illuminated by an idea, said:

- That happens.

The driver who entered was the same that had brought him from home to their Calderón dear. Salabert
looked at him anxiously.

- What you got?

- This, Duke, which must surely be of your excellency - said presenting the lost wallet.

The banker seized it, opened it quickly, and taking the pile of bills that contained, count was made
with the skill and speed typical of businessmen. When completed said:

- It's OK: nothing is missing.

The driver, who, of course, expect a bonus, a few moments he stood motionless.

- Okay, man, okay. Thank you very much.

Then, in spite painted on their faces, the poor man, good afternoon and gave the went to the door.
The Duke gave him a quizzical look, and before she said, smiling sarcastically:

- Hey, kid. Do not take anything, because men as honest as you, the best prize is the satisfaction
of having done well.

The driver, confused and angry at the same time, we watched from an indefinable way. His lips
moved to say anything, but at last she left the room without a word.

V

# Precipitation. #

Raimundo Alcázar, such was the young blond so persistent and annoying that followed Clementina
when we had the honor of meeting at the beginning of this story, received angry look that it
gave him to enter the house of his sister with admirable calmness and resignation. He waited a moment
to see if just going to leave a message, and how not to go out calmly walked toward the square
of Santa Cruz. He stopped at a station flowers. The florist, seeing him coming, he smiled
as an old parishioner and picked the bouquet of white roses and violets that certainly was
ready for him. He went to the Plaza Mayor and took the tram Carabanchel. Let them fall where
it forks in the road that leads to San Isidro Cemetery and he continued to walk. Quickly ascended
the hill, arrived and entered the new site, where, as required by law, the dead are given land, not
were encased in long, dark galleries. Briskly walked to a grave with white marble slab surrounded
by a small fence, and stopped. He stayed a few minutes still contemplating. The slab was written
in black characters this name: ISABEL MARTÍNEZ DE ALCAZAR. Beneath it those two dates separated
by a hyphen: 1842-1883, which showed undoubtedly the birth and death
of the person buried there.

There on the slab some blooms. Raymond picked them up carefully, then broke up the field he had,
spread fresh flowers on the grave, and with the same rope made another wilted bouquet. With this
in hand and hat in the other, remained some time again and gazed down with moist eyes that grave.
Then he hurried off and left the cemetery without casting a look of curiosity about him.

Raimundo Alcázar had lost his mother for eight or nine months. There she met her father, or, rather,
had no memory of him, then disappeared from this world when only he had four years. Raymond
also was called, and was dying, a professor at the University Seville. When his mother married
a young man just waiting for placement. For that the father of Isabel, dealer in hardware in
Esparteros Street, had refused to allow those loves, pursued with tenacity and only consented to
the marriage Alcazar was in opposition when the chair mentioned. He was a man of exceptional intelligence,
published some books of science who had been engaged, it was geology. His death occurred when
only thirty-two years of age, was mourned in the small area where men of science living in
Spain. Isabel, his son Raymond, turned to Madrid father's house, where three months after
her husband died, gave birth to a girl took the name of Aurelia.

Isabel was a singularly beautiful woman. As the only daughter of a merchant who was passing by
well-off, did not lack suitors. Rejected all offers of marriage. Passed by romantic between
friends, perhaps because he had some more intelligence and heart that most of them. He was an admirer
of talent: he repelled prosaic beings constituting almost all of the relations of his father.
He idolized the memory of husband who had loved in life as a superior man, eminent. Preserved
as a precious treasure all words of praise that the press had rendered to his works. The only desire
the sole purpose of his life was that his son follow in the footsteps of his father, was a man
respected for his talent and erudition.

God wanted to fulfill their vows. First began to see stand up to their eyes her husband's body image
reproduced in the child. Not only in the face, but in the gestures, gestures and tone of voice
was an exact copy. Then the child, by his behavior at school began to cause living pleasures
was smart and implemented. The teachers were very satisfied him. Each phrase of praise that came
his ears, each note outstanding to see written under the name of his son, produced the poor
mother spasms of joy. And harbored no doubt that the talent inherited of his father.

Have you ever felt remorse thinking that equitably distributed with little affection among two children.
However hard it was to keep the balance, could not but confess I loved a lot more to Raymond.
His great affection resulted in constant touch, in minor ways enmollecían care enervated and
child temperament. We raised, in short, with too mime. He, for his part, professed a love so ardent,
so exclusive, that in certain times became real fever. Every time I had to move away from their
skirts going to school cost him tears. Required to be put onto the balcony to see him off. Before
around the corner of the street became more than twenty times to send kisses his hand. It
was already a man and a student of Faculty and Isabel still retained this habit of leaving
the balcony to see him off when he went to their classes. By its nature, or perhaps for this
education a bit effeminate, Raymond was a shy child, withdrawn from
the games of his companions, then an adolescent melancholy, finally
a serious young man of few words.

He barely had friends. At the University walking with their peers before entering the lecture,
but as Tornabe time was home and did not like to leave but accompanied his mother and sister. Long
before this time, when he was only ten years old, her grandfather
had died.

So that once reached the top ten and six, began to play the role of man in the house. He brought
his mother to the theater, accompanied visits: Some nights, when it was good time out for
a walk with her through the streets, giving the arm as a husband
or a lover.

Isabel's beauty did not diminish with age. Seeing them together, no one imagined that they were
mother and son, but brothers, if not married.

This was due to the youth of some discomfort. For in Madrid men are not distinguished by an
excessive respect for the ladies, heard, reluctantly, phrases of admiration, compliments, what
has been called flowers, passers ran to his mother. Felt, to listen, a strange mixture of shame
and pleasure, jealousy and waved it proudly.
The old Martinez, after removal of trade, had been failures in fortune,
consisting shares in a gunpowder factory suffered depreciation and
government securities. Only income left them seven to eight thousand.
Lived with her three economies, but lacking the necessary, by a quarter
second Gravina Street. Raymond continued science career. I wanted
to be a professor like his father, and given the brilliance with which
out in reviews, no one doubted that I got it soon. Also showed, as
his father, decided taste for natural science, but instead of engaging
in Geology, fixed with predilection in Zoology, and in that part thereof
which includes the interesting study of butterflies. Began to take
stock of them, and displayed a zeal and an intelligence soon took
possession of a rich collection. Before finishing the race, was already
a notable entomologist. Had built storefronts that lined the walls
of your room where the cards were exposed to the most rare and precious
species. Was saving two years to buy a microscope, and finally acquired
a pretty good provided you welcome solace to pair utility. Because
while this particular study was not sufficient to get a chair, I helped
not a little, since it is not possible to further any branch of science
without considering its relations with others, especially with closer.

The
day I became a doctor, and was just finished twenty-first birthday,
poor Elizabeth experienced one of those joys understandable only for
mothers. He hugged shedding a flood of tears.

- Mama - Raimundo told
-. Am I in fitness of opposition to a chair. I will spend with zeal
to prepare, and as the lead, giving up what you can leave me inheritance
to make a dowry to Aurelia. I have a few needs and will suffice to
pay.

These generous words moved to the mother. Every day was one
more reason to worship son model.

Raimundo devoted himself zealously
to the study and the subjects of some subjects without abandoning
their hobbies entomological. Thanks to these and the glorious name
his father had bequeathed him, soon became known among men of science.
Wrote some articles, put on a number of foreign scholars and was pleased
to receive of these words of praise that encouraged him. It can be
said that it was a happy boy