 And perhaps the anger was what saved me. She gave me energy to react
and adopt an extreme party. That same day I wrote two or three letters saying as I left Paris. I
moved home, went to hide in a remote neighborhood, call my rescue what was left of reason,
intelligence and love of good, and I began again a new probationary period did not know, but
in any case should be the last.

XVI

This change came in the overnight and it was radical. It was not the time to falter and cool.
Had a horror of half-measures. I liked the fight. Superabundant energy me. Rejected in part,
my will was in need of turning in another sense, find a new obstacle to overcome in a few hours,
so to speak, and jump on it. The time seemed eternal to me. Apart from any question of time I
felt, if not old, to least very mature. I was not a teenager who stabs the child despite all painful,
the soft slopes of youth. It was a proud man, impatient, wounded, pricked by the desires and sorrows,
that dropped suddenly in the prime of his life - as a soldier at noon on the final day - with
hearts full of grievances, bitter soul by impotence, brain exploding
project.

I did not set foot in the world, at least in that part of society where risked notice and find me
memories that I had been tempted. I also locked too narrow because it would have drowned, but I
was confined in a circle of men activities, studies, special, lost, enemies of chimeras, which
were devoted to science, to scholarship or art as that which created Florentín naive perspective
and at night woke his wife to say, "How sweet is the perspective!" distrusted wanderings of the
imagination and put in order. As for my nerves, I had carefully so voluptuously until then,
were punished in the most rude for contempt all that is ill and the
firm intention of not more than the estimate that is robust and healthy.

The

moonlight on the Seine, the sun sweet dreams at the window, walks under the trees, discomfort
or welfare caused by a sunbeam or a raindrop, the roughness of the genius that caused me a little
air and good living thoughts that inspired the absence of wind, all that softness of heart,
that slavery the spirit, those feelings were considered exorbitant and the examination was decreed they
were unworthy of a man, and broke all those ice wrapped around me in a tissue influences and
weaknesses.

It was a very active life. He read widely. I wasted, I economized. The feeling sacrifice repellent
was combined with the attraction of a duty that had to be filled with about myself. This got
some satisfaction that it was dark joy, unless still full, but that much resembled what should
be the haughty pleasure of a monastic vow well done. There was nothing childish deemed that a reform
that was so serious because and could have a serious result. I did my reading of what he had
made thousand other things, considering them important food of my spirit, expunged. He no
longer felt the need for clarification on matters of the heart. It was not worth to recognize
gripping book when he fled from myself. I had to find better or worse, if better the election was unnecessary
and, worse, was an example that should be sought. I was, so to speak, a kind of healthy library
between human talent that has left more bracing, more pure, from the moral point of view,
more exemplary in terms of reasoning. Finally, Magdalena had promised to test my strength
and wanted to keep my promise if only to show potential in me without a job and that could While measuring
the duration and energy of an ambition that was ultimately become more than love.

After several months of this inflexible system, I came to a artificial
condition and strength of spirit that seemed appropriate to undertake
a lot.

I started to pay off my accounts with the past. You know who had the mania of the verses. Whether
for pleasure involuntary nice day and longed for, either by greed, I did not want that part
of living of my youth was entirely destroyed. I set myself the task of stirring that old code of childish
things and feelings just awakened. It was a sort of general confession Forgiving, but firm, without
any danger to a consciousness that is judged. Of those countless sins of another age I wrote two
volumes. I put a title that determined the character a little spring of the work. I led with
a preface by the ingenious to be, at least, put under cover of ridicule and posting without a signature.
Appeared and disappeared. I did not expect more of them. I did nothing to save them from total
oblivion, convinced that everything is deserves to be abandoned and that there is a real ray of
sunshine lost in the universe.

Made this scan of conscience, I cared for less frivolous tasks.

It was so much policy everywhere and particularly in the middle observer that I acted. Had in
environment at that time a multitude of ideas in a state of nebulous state problems of hope,
generosity to be moving later condense and form what now called the stormy sky of modern politics.

My
imagination almost treeless, but not entirely off, something was in that goal the seduced.
The position of a statesman was - at the time that I speak to you,
- the crowning necessary, to some extent, the advent of man the title
useful for all one who had great intellectual ability, talent or simply
genius.

I fell in love the idea of ??becoming useful after being harmful so long. And the ambition to
be I also illustrate invaded little by little - but, God knows what - I started to do a kind
stay in the same lobby of public affairs, is among a small parliament composed of young ambitious
minds of very young abnegations willing to volunteer, which were reproduced in a diminutive
part of the controversial depleting then all of Europe. Achieve success, I can say without pride
that our parliament today it is forgotten. It seemed that my path was laid out. It was deployed
through consuming activity that consumed me. I do not know what I was hoping unbeatable again
to find Madeleine. "I had said goodbye or au revoir? I would better understand transformed, with
a live brightness to ennoble my position. Everything was mixed well between stimuli that stung
me. The bitter memory of Magdalena hummed in the background of my ambitions and had moments
where I was given no distinction in my dreams premature of power, what emanated from the philanthropist
and what came from love.

All those ideas and feelings summarized in a book that appeared under an assumed name. A few
months later published another. The two had more resonance than I expected. Before long I almost
changed into a celebrity see the darkness in which it was. Savored with delight the pleasure vain,
sneaky and quite intimate, hear me praise in personality my pseudonym.

The day's success was undeniable I took my two books to Augustine. I wholeheartedly embraced, told
me that he had great talent, was amazed that he had suddenly revealed as soon as I predicted
and infallible thing, a moral position capable go mad. Magdalena I decided that he enjoyed the first
omens of my celebrity and you I sent my books to Mr de Nièvre. He begged that I did not treason gave
explanations I retired plausible: it was excusable since the time it was shown that had an object.

The
reply of Mr. de Nièvre contained only words of thanks and praise modeled on those who ran
the public. Magdalena did not add a word to those of the husband.

The slight confusion in my spirit that followed the happy beginning of my literary life vanished very
quickly. The excitement aroused by early production, drawn, almost unthinkingly, came a great calm,
that is, a moment of serenity and singularly lucid examination.

There was an old me who I very long time ago and do not talk to you, silent but surviving.
He took that moment of rest and reappear using a severe language. With the encroachments of
my heart I had completely emancipated.

He returned to take his high position as it was more controversial issues and was deliberating coldly
more positive interest in my spirit. In other words, calmly analyzed what a legitimate lay at the bottom
of my success, and precise conclusion was that considers if it was reason to cheer. I did the
balance - very definitive - of my knowledge, ie acquired resources and my gifts, or what is
the same, my driving forces, I compared the fictitious with native weighed that belonged to everyone
and how little I had my own. The result of this criticism fair, made as methodically as a liquidation
business was that I was a distinguished man and mediocre.

He had suffered cruel disappointments: this one did not cause me the slightest bitterness.
On the other hand, if it was just such disappointment. For many would have been more than satisfactory
that situation. I felt very differently. That little monster called modern Oliverio "Vulgar",
which caused much horror and led him you know where, I knew I as well as it under another name. Lived
so well in the region of ideas as in the lower world of facts. He had been the genius villain of
all time and was a wound of ours.

There were around me a perversion of ideas on which he never had me fooled. I revolted against
the flattery, after all, could not and change my mind in any case: welcomed the trial as an innocent
expression public at a time when the abundance of mediocrity had become indulgent taste blunting
the steely sense of higher things. The opinion seemed perfectly fair As for me, although I
do while my process is also yours.

I remember one day I tried a test more convincing than all the others. I took my library number
of contemporary books and proceeding more or less as posterity shall before the end of the century,
has asked each of their titles to the duration and especially the right they had to be called
useful. I noticed that very little filling the first condition a work that gives life, were
hardly necessary. Many had served as a temporary diversion his contemporaries no other result than to
please and be forgotten. Some had a false aspect of need deceived
watched closely, but it will define future.

A very small number - I was afraid - had that rare, absolute and unquestionable character, which
is recognized in all divine and human creation, it can be imitated but not supplied and be required
to the needs of the people if it is absent. That kind of posthumous trial exercised by the most
unworthy of so many spirits elected, I showed that I would not ever the number of those acquitted
of guilt and sorrow. One who took in his boat meritorious men certainly would have left me on
the other side of the river, and she stayed.

Once again attracted the attention of the public my name or at least my imaginary character
and was the last. I wondered what it was that I had to do and I took some time to resolve. Had
for that one major difficulty. Detached from my life many links - as you have seen - and disillusioned
many errors and no more hanging that the balance, which, although horribly stretched and stronger
than ever, still holding on and never imagined that nothing could break it.

And hardly heard anyone talk about other than Magdalena Oliver, whom he saw very little, and Augustine
whom she had brought home, especially after I disappeared. I knew vaguely what was the use
of outdoor life: he had traveled and lived some time after Nièvre, which had recovered after
two or three times their customs in Paris, only to abandon again almost without reason, and
as under the rule of a malaise that resulted in a perpetual instability of character and as a need to
switch places.

Sometimes there seen, but so secretly and through so much trouble, that in each of those Sometimes
I had thought he was the victim of a painful dream. In those fleeting appearances I had the
impression of a strange image of a face wrinkled as if the black color My soul had faded on
that radiant face.

At that time I had a great emotion. There was an exhibition of modern painting. Although very
ignorant of a fine art in the matter of which had not the slightest instinct culture and I
was talking about much less the more respected, would sometimes chase comments others who taught
me to know well my time and make comparisons that cheered me nothing. One day I saw a small
group of people - who should be familiar - before discussing a picture.

It was a half-length portrait in an antique style designed with a dark background: undecided
dress without accessories, two splendid hands, her hair half lost, head made from the front,
strong outlines, engraved on the canvas with precision a patterned enamel and I do not know what a
sober, comprehensive and yet evening, which gave to face extraordinary uncertainties was excited
to beat a soul in the vigorous drawing of the factions as firm and resolute as the engraving
of a medal. I was stunned effigy in front of that awful reality and sadness. The signature
was that of an illustrious painter. I scanned the list and found the initials of the lady of Nièvre.
I had no need of that testimony. Magdalene was there before me, eyes fixed on me, but with what
eyes, in what position, how pale and what mysterious expression of expectation and bitter grief!

In
just was not to launch a cry and I do not know how I managed to restrain myself for not giving enough
people the spectacle of madness. I placed in the front row away to all those curious that had nothing
to do between the portrait and me. To have the right to examine a closer and more long imitated
the gesture, attitude, and how to look up small exclamations of approval from fans practical in the
field of art painting. I feigned a passion for the painter's work when in fact they liked or
loved otherwise the model.

I returned the next day and onwards, I slipped early along the deserted galleries, saw the picture
from afar and through a cloud life taking every step that I moved toward him. Arrived, all significant
device disappeared: Magdalena was sadder and sadder, more and more fixed in who knows what terrible
anxiety bursting with dreams. He spoke, I meant all the things beyond reason I had been tortured
soul about two years, asked for her grace and me. I prayed that I received, which allow me
to return to it. I had my whole life with the most unfortunate and most legitimate The pride and
joy. There was a time when the fugitive modeling of the cheeks, the brightness of the eyes,
the indefinable mouth drawing moves gave the effigy mobilities caused me fear. It seemed as
I listened, I understood, and that the relentless and chisel he had learned imprisoned in a trait
so hard, was all that prevented moved and reply.

Sometimes I came to mind the idea that Magdalene had foreseen what happened, ie that would
recognize me and I would go mad with grief and joy at the fantastic conversation of a man living
with a painting. And as I saw in that fact malice or compassion, idea that anger or exasperate
me made me shed tears of gratitude.

What you mean you took almost two months past that were, on the other
day I gave truly a farewell funeral halls were closed and I was missing
portrait more alone than ever.

After some time, I received a visit from Oliver. He was serious, it felt somewhat embarrassed,
almost as if the weight of a case of conscience was weighing on his soul.

Just saw him I began to tremble.

- I do not know what happens in Nièvre - I said, - but everything seems to go wrong.

- Magdalena? - I asked aghast.

- Julia is sick, sick enough to cause concern.

Magdalene herself is not good. I would go, but the situation is not sustainable. My uncle would
write letters very desolate.

- Magdalena ...?-- But I asked again fearing that another disaster
happen even he I hid.

- I tell you, Magdalena is a very sad state
of health.

There has deteriorated some time this part, but still wrong.

- Oliver - I cried - you go or not I'll be there tomorrow Nièvre. Nobody has been fired Magdalena's
house, I left voluntarily. Magdalena had told me wrote the day he had need of me, if she has
reason to be quiet, I have them to run to his side.

- You will do absolutely anything you want. In such a case would act like you, deferring to
the regret if the remedy was worse than the disease.

- Bye.

- Bye.

XVII

The next day I was in Nièvre. Afternoon I arrived just before nightfall. It was the month of November.
I got out some distance from the gate in the forest. Crossed the entrance courtyard without being
noticed. At the end of the service rooms to the right shining light in the kitchen. Two bright
windows are highlighted on the front of the castle.

I went straight to the hall whose door was just ajar when someone crossed I went, it was dark.
"" Mrs. Nièvre? "I believe I talked to a girl of the easement. The person to whom I had addressed
turned suddenly came to me and screamed: it was Magdalena.

Froze in surprise and I took her hand without finding the strength to articulate a word. The poor,
came out clearly that he lent the whiteness of the statue: completely inert fingers and ice
cream fell off my hand imperceptibly as if were those of a dead woman. I saw it wobble, but
the movement I made to hold it off by an impulse of inconceivable terror, lost eyes widened
and said, "Sunday !...» as if waking from a bad dream that had lasted
those two years, then took a few steps toward the stairs, dragging
after her without conscience what he was doing.

We went up together, next to each other, always together our hands.

Al reach the threshold of the first floor was like a flash of presence
of mind.

- Come in here - I said - I will tell my father.

I saw that she called her father and move to the Fourth of July.

The first words of Mr. D'Orsel were these:

- My dear son, I have a lot of grief.

Those words spoke louder than all the recriminations and penetrated my heart like a sword.

- I heard that Julia was sick - I told him no effort to disguise the trembling My voice grew
faint .-- I also learned that Mrs. Nièvre was delicate and came to
see you.

So long ago ...

- It's true - said Mr. D'Orsel - long ago.

Life happens: everyone has their duties and their concerns ...

Called, put on the lights, I looked quickly as if to check on me a change analogous to the changes
that had occurred two years after their daughters.

- Also you have aged - continued with a sort of benevolence and very interesting .-- loving you
worked a lot, we have proof ...

Then I spoke to Julia, the serious concerns that they had, but fortunately had vanished from a few
days. Julia entered the convalescent and everything was a matter of care, attention and a
few days of rest. Again went from one subject to another.

- Behold, you're quite a man now famous - .-- We have continued to
focus on their stuff with sincere interest.

He paced up and down, talking and without hilación. His hair was completely white, their high body
slightly hunched offered a singularly noble appearance of premature
aging or depression.

Magdalena came to interrupt us after five minutes. She was dressed in dark and resembled long,
with the animation of life as well, the portrait that had impressed
me so much.

I got up, met him, mumbled incoherently two or three that had no meaning, no longer even know
how to explain my visit, and how suddenly fill the huge gap of two years put among us as a bottomless
pit of secrets, and dark misgivings. I recovered without But seeing her more in control of herself
and spoke calmly as I could alarm Oliver had given me. When I gave that name stopped me.

- Will he come? - Said.

- I do not think - I said .-- At least in a few days.

He made a gesture of absolute discouragement and the three fell into the most painful silence.

I asked where he was the lord of Nièvre, as if it were possible I would not Oliverio informed
of his trip and I was surprised to learn he was absent.

- Oh, this
is a great abandon! - Magdalena said .-- We are all sick or a little
less.

There are bad influences on the environment, the resort is unhealthy
and there is nothing cheerful - added looked up at the tall windows
of old stained glass windows in which yet at a daylight remaining
almost completely extinguished.

To escape embarrassing conversation impossible spoke of the deplorable
situation Some people, who threatened increase in the next winter,
in some cases diseases and misery in others, of a child who died in
the village and that Julia had attended and care until the day when,
gravely ill herself, had to entrust to other role, powerless against
death, a sister of charity.

Seemed pleased with those unfortunate stories misfortunes and to enumerate, I know not what sombre
greed, all the calamities that were nearby around his existence a
cause of sadness contest. Then, as he had done Mr. D'Orsel, spoke
of me with some reservation as soon as admirably abandonment calculated
to facilitate the position of each.

My purpose was to make a visit
and then win the village inn in which he had committed a room, but
decided otherwise Magdalena: I noticed that he had given the necessary
orders for me to stay on the second floor of the castle, in a room
that I had already occupied the first time that I spent some time
in Nièvre.

That night, before we part, in my presence, she wrote
to her husband.

- I notice Mr Nièvre you're here - I said.

And I
realized that such a precaution, taken in my presence, involved in
unscrupulous and fair decisions.

Julia had not seen. He was weak
and agitated. The news of my arrival, although caution that was told,
had caused a shock very much alive