 Although this is my sister, I do exception. So I took
them what they need and shun the deal ... But what excuse did you Mariquita? ...

- That he does not like me, who has suddenly apagao that I had. Do not sit for me not a crumb
of affection and love pretending not to lie ... As if one could want
off suddenly, like a light!

...

Rafael remembered the end of his last interview. Tired of begging, clinging to mourn the gate, like
a child kneeling, the desperation she had burst into threats. Fermín forgive him! but at that
moment he was capable of murder.

The girl, tired of his pleas, afraid of their curses, finally slamming the window. Y until
now!

Twice a day had gone Marchamalo with the excuse to see Mr. Fermín,
but Mary Light hiding, just guessed his horse galloping down the road.

Montenegro hear him thinking.

- Will you have another boyfriend? - Said .-- Did he love someone?

- No, it does not - Rafael was quick to respond as if it's any consolation conviction .-- The
same thought at first and I was already busted in Jerez and then in prison. When I remove my
Mariquilla for Lu, killed him. But alas! that no one takes it from me, that it is what goes
... He spends his days watching from afar Marchamalo tower. Cups that I drank in the tavern of
the road and I saw poison golvían raise or lower someone the slope of the vineyard! ... He
spends his nights lying between the strains, with the shotgun next, ready to stick a coaching
inn highlands in the womb to the first who approached gate ... But
I have not seen more than the dogs.

The locked gate. And meanwhile, the farm of walks Matanzuela desgobernao,
although the lack Cursed I do with this strike.

I'm never there: the poor Zarandillo load it too, if he knew the master, I said goodbye. Only
I have eyes and ears to zeal to your sister and know that there is engagement, not love anybody.
I'm almost to tell you that I still have some law, look you if I'm dumb! ... But the Cursed
runs away from me, and says he loves me.

- But thou hast done something, Rafael? Do not be angry for some light yours?

- No: that either.

I'm more innocent than the child Jesus and the lamb that takes into Lao. Since I have relations
with your sister, do not look for a maid. Toas seem ugly and Mariquilla knows. Last night
I talked to her, when I asked him to forgive me, not knowing why, and asked if he had offended
at something, the poor girl wept as Malaena.

Your sister knows that I have not fartao as much as this nail. She herself said: "Poor Rafa! You are
good! Forget me, you'd be unhappy with me.

      " And I closed the window
    ...

The strapping young man groaned as he said this, while his friend, who had finished eating, thoughtful
support his forehead in one hand.

- Well, son - Fermín muttered .-- do not understand this hieroglyph. Mariquita and does not let
you another boyfriend: pities you, tells you you're good, showing that even you have a will,
and you close the window. The demon who understands women! And what
are sometimes poor soul the condemned!

...

Increased the noise in the room of revelry, and a woman's voice, sharp
as a tremor metal reached the two friends.

I left ... Gypsy bad! When I wanted more ...

Rafael could not hear more. Popular poetry clawed his naive soul with sadness. Broke to mourn
with cries of children, as if the song was his story as if it had
been made after being fired him from that gate, where was the happiness
of his life.

- Do you hear, Fermin? - Sighing .-- That said, I am.

It happens that the pobresito of the couplet. He has compassion for a dog breeding, you want,
do not let him, her screams inspire sorry, and I, who am a man, a creature of God, the Street! If
you wanted, you no longer I! A burst of grief! ... Christ! Paece lie that I'm dead yet! ...

They
were silent for a long time.

Absorbed in his thoughts, no longer heard the noise of the fun, feminine
voice that was singing songs.

- Fermin - suddenly said the overseer
.-- You're the only thing that could occur to fix everything.

This is why he had waited out the desktop. He knew his great influence
on family.

Maria de la Luz respected him more than his father, and became languages ??of their wisdom.

Education in England, and the praise of the foreman, who saw his son intelligence almost as big
as his teacher, influenced the girl, eating in your brotherly kindness
a great deal of admiration.

Rafael did not dare to speak the godfather: he was afraid. But Fermin was waiting around, and
trusted him.

- What you tell him to do, that will ... Ferminillo, do not forsake
me, protect me.

You are my employer, I would like to get in and go on an altar candles and pray to a litany. Fermin
darling me: do not leave me, save me.

Soft rock that, in heart, catch me, because otherwise I and I fall to prison or the madhouse.

Montenegro
exaggerations mocked the whimpering of his friend.

- Okay, man, do what you can, but do not weep, nor let go of those
prayers, you look like Don Pablo, my principal, when spoken of God.

Mariquita see: I'll tell him you: I'll tell the very indina what they deserve. What, are you happy
now? ...

Rafael cleaned the tears, and smiled with childlike simplicity, showing
his teeth square of crisp white.

But his joy was impatient. When thinking Fermín see Mariquita?

- Men, tomorrow. On the desktop we are very busy in the year-end settlement.

English accounts give me too busy.

The strapping young man made a gesture of annoyance. Tomorrow! ... One more night of no sleep, to mourn
misfortune, of cruel uncertainty, not knowing whether to expect anything.

Montenegro

laughed at the sadness of the overseer.

But how to put the love of mankind! Daba desire with the rod tip to that young man, like an
overgrown child and angry.

- No, Fermin, and I ask you Sallu.

Do something for me, see at once and you will draw a soul with grief.

Nothing you say on the desktop: the gentlemen you want, you spoil your child.

And he besieged with pleas burning, with caressing words, to be at once sighted with his sister.
Montenegro yielded, overcome by anxiety fine fellow.

That would Marchamalo same evening, lie the head of the desk saying that her father was ill.
Don Ramon was good and would turn a blind eye.

The impatient Rafael then told that they were shorter than the evening
of January and the need take advantage of the time.

Fermín called the servant, who missed the paucity of the two friends, inviting them to ask
for more.

Everything was paid! Don Luis had an open mind! ...

Leaving Rafael, went directly to the street, fearing that the master could see him with his eyes red.
Fermín poked his head into the room of revelry, and after accepting a glass of Dupont fled
from it, trying to catch him by the lapels, for her to stay.

Before the afternoon was Marchamalo Fermin. Rafael took him on the rump of his horse. His impatience
made him twitch his heels, spurring the animal.

- Are you going to pop it, great! - Shouted Montenegro, sticking his
chest to the back of the rider .-- That weigh much both!

...

But Rafael only thought about the next interview.

- In the very carriage of St. Elias would I take, Ferminillo for you
to see before the cunt.

They stopped at the tavern on the road near the vineyard.

- Do you want to wait? - Said the overseer .-- I will gladly wait
here until the day of Judgement.

I felt impatient to know the resolution of the girl. But Fermin did not want wait for him.
Planned to spend the night in the vineyard.

He continued the march on foot, while Raphael was announced to voices that would come to fetch
the next day.

When Mr. Fermin saw the arrival of her son, she asked anxiously if
anything happened Jerez.

"Nothing, Father." He came to spend the night with the family as on the desktop had given
permission for lack of work. The old appreciated the visit, but without discarding had expressed
concern that the arrival of his son.

- I thought, to see that something bad happened in Jerez, but still
nothing happens, will happen soon.

Yo, from here, I know everything, never missing a friend of the other wineries that brings me blow
what they think the strikers.

Furthermore, in the tavern repeat what they hear on carriers ranches.

And the foreman told his son of a meeting that the workers were to be held on Next on the plains
of Caulin. Nobody knew who gave the orders, but the call had circulated by word of mouth through
the countryside and the mountains, and would join thousands of men,
coming up to the limits of the province of Malaga, all the wages they
earned in the Jerez countryside.

- A true revolution, son.

Come in all this a stranger, a boy called the Madrid, speaking of killing the rich and share the
treasures of the city. People seems crazy, everyone thinks that tomorrow will succeed and that was just
misery.

The Madrid uses the name of Salvatierra, as works by his orders, and many say, as if have seen,
that Don Fernando is hidden in Jerez and presented at the time of
revolution.

What do you know this? ...

Fermín shook his head in disbelief. Salvatierra had written some days before without state intentions
to return to Jerez. Doubted that was true travel. In addition, we
seemed unlikely this attempt at revolt.

It would be an alarm over the many invented of the desperation of the hungry. Amounted to an attempt
madness invasion City troops being there.

- I see you, Father, how
are met in Caulin, everything is reduced to shouting and threats,
and at meetings in the ranch.

And Don Fernando, do not pass you off. I have the conviction you are in Madrid. It is not so
foolish as to go to engage in crazy like this.

- I myself believe,
son, but about what might happen tomorrow seeks you mix with those
crazy, if you enter the city.

Fermín looked around, eyes searching for her sister. Finally Mary left the house Light, smiling
at his Fermín, welcoming his visit with exclamations of joyful surprise. The boy looked at her
intently. Nothing! Not to talk to Rafael, I could not guess sadness those who had cut his
loves.

It was more than an hour without being able to speak alone with his sister. In the stares Fermin
seemed to guess the girl some of his thoughts. It aims to show impassive but his face, as soon
paled with the transparency of the wax, as flushed with a rush of
blood.

Mr. Fermín down the slope of the vineyard, going to meet some carriers passing down the road.
His keen eye of a peasant were recognized from above. They were friends, and wanted They know what
they were talking on the ranches of the meeting the next day.

When left alone the two brothers, their eyes met in the middle of an awkward silence.

- I have to talk, Mariquita - at last the boy said with determination.

- Then start anytime, Fermín - she answered .-- I guessed quiet accent to see that something was
coming.

- No, not here. Father could return, and what we have to talk takes time and quiet. Let's take
a walk.

And the two set off down the hill, down the slope opposite the highway.
Down and between strains on the back of the tower, going to a limiting
line cacti the great vineyard on this side.

Maria de la Luz tried
to stop several times not wanting to go that far. Wished to speak
regarding prior to exit from its agonizing uncertainty. But the brother
was reluctant to start the conversation pisasen while the land under
the supervision of his father.

They stopped at the fence of prickly
pears, along with a wide gap revealed a copudo olive grove after which
the sun descending branches.

Fermin had his sister to sit on the
bank, and planting himself before her, said sweet smile to encourage
her to trust:

- Let's see, Loquillo: you tell me why you broke with
Rafael, why did you fired like a dog, causing her such pain that the
poor seems to be dying.

Maria de la Luz seemed to take a joke issue,
but was pale and his smile was the tension a sad face.

- Because
I love him, because I cansao him, ea! It is a dull boring me. Am I
not owner to want a man like me? ...

Fermin spoke like a rebellious
child. I was lying: he was known in his face. Could not hide that
still loved Rafael. There was something in everything that he knew
needed for the good of the bride and groom, to put back together.
This Boredom Lie! Lie bully that girl power that was expressed to
justify breaking Mariquita Rafael! She was not bad, it could not deal
with such cruelty to her old boyfriend. What! Is that how you break
a love affair started almost as a child? So farewell to a man after
to have had it for years and years, as it were, sewn skirts? There
was something his conduct could not be explained, and it was necessary
that she be told. Was not his brother unique and the best of friends?
Do not tell him all the things you did not dare say father, by the
respect he inspired in him? ...

But she was insensitive to caressing
and persuasive tone of his brother.

- There is nothing of that -
said firmly, craning his chest as if to rise .-- All are your own
inventions. No more, I'm tired of dating, I have no man, I spend my
life with father and you. Who better than you? Gone the bride and
groom!

The brother greeted these words with a gesture of disbelief.
Lying again! Why soon tired of the man he had wanted? What causes
powerful had broken so quickly love? ... Mariquita Ah! He was not
so stupid to swallow an apology unmeaning.

And as the girl, to hide
his embarrassment lifted his voice, repeating strongly owned their
will and could do whatever was to their liking, Fermin began to chafe.

-
Ah, young lady fake! Alma hard! Heart song! Do you think a man is
left when one you think, after having entertained for years at the
gate, maddened groups with little words, saying that he wants more
than life? For much less them advantage of some the heart of a stab
... Shout: repeats that do what you please: I think in that unhappy,
while you talk like a drag, the poor guy walks there actually a shame,
crying like a child, even though the man is man entire field of Jerez