the books of hervé guibert are for anyone. anyone can become hervé guibert: just tell her sexual experiences (an area where it became difficult to be original), exhibit a self nice and sensitive, not to hide his moments of selfishness or cowardice, to describe in detail the turbulent relationship that has with his entourage - or that strives to feed the poison to graphomania - and reveal the little secrets of his famous friends. guibert makes us discover the whips, the pairs of handcuffs "muzil, the eminent archaeologist of knowledge, and transferred to it in the baths of san francisco. the man of books hervé guibert is a boy cute, emotional and uneducated. he is the man of today. the best pages to the friend who has not saved lives - because there are - are pastiches, volunteers and declared by thomas bernhard. but bernhard builds his narrative digressions and hackneyed in full control of its language and unique style that patiently forged from book to book, while in the lyrical passages guibert, long time rehashing of accumulation or graduation, the use of parataxis rather than subordination, do that extra solecisms. for guibert, writer of the 1980s, language so up to date, is a precursor of poor writing today. as testimony to the friend who has not saved life is a painful book. i confess: had it moved to its release, when i was seventeen. but a few years back, i note especially that guibert is the source (of course not alone) of a genre, the "autobiographical", which is spreading and that always carries more than platitudes whimpering topped with language stereotypes under the signature of angot, dustan of delaume, etc.. these books are sometimes interesting as raw evidence. but why do we want to force us all to sell them as literature? literary writings are insignificant. they are another symptom of artistic misery in which we are stuck. the lesson of gide was not understood. now that's what works is what appeals to journalists. make books message or trauma, stimulate the reader's empathy and inhibit critical thinking, turn away from the memories he might have preserved the great works once intimidating, coat of lyricism borrowing thoughts and banal consensual. serve very hot from the oven, the dish warms quickly.