the film's title ( "the happening" in vo) leads us to ask about the work of its director. what "event" exactly? bah, just after having inflicted "events" i would say that the event or phenomenon is not this film but "the sixth sense". the film revealed that m. night shyamalan is in effect a sort of anomaly, a huge blow to bowl that has made us believe we had found in the person of its creator a terrifying and original storyteller, a new force film on which he would now have to count. bowl no, the following films are more or less successful, sometimes interesting, intriguing and lovable despite their flaws ... but now with "events", we are facing a real problem. the power of shyamalan blurred so that one wonders if we're not watching an ordinary television film produced by m6 and released second part of the evening, or worse, earlier this afternoon. despite an early effective and disturbing, it does not fit into the film. the fault is, or what? actors unconvincing, totally improbable dialogue and ridiculous lack of pace and tension ... boo! even not afraid ... not everything is disposable and the film has few moments successful but not enough to sweeten the pill. everything that happens is so lacking in credibility (i'm not talking about the strange and fantastic events well sure) that one wonders just what was going through the head of mr. writer / screenwriter. i feel that trying to do everything himself, mr. shyamalan is slowing. it would need to step back and ask for help to others ... and yes, "phenomena" is good evidence (though some still had doubts) that the quality of dialogue, and actors are well directed essential to a film. an intriguing idea, namely to create an atmosphere or have ideas of staging are not enough to make a successful feature film. hope that shyamalan will recover from this debacle and that charitable souls (and talented) arrived to help. frankly, we believe the victim of a curse recently, each film is worse than the last. i am very scared for the next ...