being interested in aviation and space exploration, i was quickly intrigued by the synopsis and the first six pages available on the publisher's website prompted me to buy this comic. to be a bd successful combination synopsis &amp; design must go hand in hand, like a movie. if the former is not up to the second (or vice versa) you end up with a work you're not sure what to think because it is difficult for one to save another. and this is the problem of complex chimpanzee, hence my note severe (can not put 2.5!). and the fact that the story unfolds in three volumes does not help (paradox t1, t2 the son of ares, t3 civilization). in terms of script or the story itself, i to say nothing special, or criticisms to make. this is the road is linear, it is well constructed and so overall, there is no particular problem. bearing in mind that this is more an inner journey that science fiction and hard. but why not. and just from the history alone, i'm curious to see the outcome. that would have made a good novel. where things go wrong is in drawing. of course there are flavors and colors, but 6 pages available in "preview" does not realize what follows. the complex chimpanzee suffers from what i call the syndrome of sanctuary (trilogy dorrisson &amp; bec, the humanoids associates). sanctuary also has a good storyline but the design is sealing everything. and the design of the complex chimpanzee closely resembles that of bec in sanctuary (with a slight improvement for the complex): this lack of precision at all levels (this is more like painting than drawing ). this applies to information that might be trivial for the reader lambda but not for me to know everything related to machines (aircraft, ship, space shuttle) and set a launch pad shuttle side of the building 'assembly (vab) at cape canaveral is probably the biggest blunder of this volume. but i am willing to wipe out those details, if on the other hand the visual expression of the characters were better made. frankly, close-ups on faces and their expressions are not really text and sometimes i can not decipher the expressions of the characters that does not seem to match anything. the lighting effects do not help the case, with an overdose of dark colors (it was almost dark on the moon "), which gives a murky and not very attractive. of course if you enjoy the work of bec, you'll like that of ponzio. in short, this is a book that is promising but underserved not shown. the scenario deserved much better graphics and a classic. it's a shame and really infuriating. so my advice, browse the book before buying, just to see if the design you like or not.