i opened this book one summer morning, intrigued by a title that finally, in retrospect, should have put me on the voice. from the first pages, in fact, we see coming author with his big shoes, his shepherd's staff, his long white beard and his ten commandments in hand. and i told myself that i actually came across a "big issue". for to edgar morin, there was the world before edgar morin, and there will be (maybe, if men are wise!) a world after edgar morin. oyez, oyez, ignorant forces of humanity, as the new messiah is among us! indeed, imagine that you all as much as we are, we are blind. blind, because we're scientists, divided in our disciplines; blind, because we do not see any "evidence" that nature, yet we exhibited every day. that's what we said edgar morin, early thundering this book. after we have rewarded with a brief overview of his long pilgrimage through the sciences and continents, edgar morin attack all azymut everything he believes to be the established order. enlightened by his "discovery" (which are no longer to anyone in reality), he tries to convince us of what we already know (including the time of publication of the book). combining nearly all science possible, linking mathematics and ethnography, psychology and geometry, morin gives us a sad statement that merely drive it. it flies about while making links arbitrary and unnecessary. as if he had been the first to think of what we wrote! as if no one had before him, spoke of animal societies, discussed the links between people, nature and society! in short, of scientific and philosophical old as the hills, morin is a pseudo-revelation (the word "revelation" comes to almost every paragraph). and we believe vasciller made. convinced of being visionary, morin believes that others, including readers, are necessarily less smart than himself, and never read anything of their lives. in this case when we see the bibliography of the book was rather like to buy some fundamental morin, or to purchase a library card. with a pen gifted with a lot of words and expressions of his own creation morin happen to convince the uninitiated of the validity of his thinking. thinking that is, in my opinion, the vast deception, a common test which is a compilation of knowledge overflown, superficial and barely mastered. but i put two stars because i laughed when he saw edgar morin to ridicule and spread its own contradictions and his own blindness.