lou gramm (-atico) is another part of my life! for background, type wikipedia (or buy the excellent dvd available on this site "the foreigner story" avoid "all access" very poor), their chance encounter in new york with mick jones, genius then failed in the u.s. ( but former spooky tooth, my ex-jolie sarah, pal-fab four, "hendrix, shark super studio londoner). lou had left a k7 demo of his group then (black sheep, totally uninteresting): ... the first shock! mick jones and ian macdonald (ex king crimson) held their lead singer! after there was "cold as ice," "feels like the firt time, tubes solid gold truck" blue morning "," hot blooded, "" urgent "criticism lance-shaped flames in france and elsewhere: rock-fm? oh yeah! not the guts to make a real hard disk? ah well ... damn it all. i listened to london calling, police and head games, and also a little coverdale. and i do not care styles, and sectorization. then it became huge: "i want to know what love is", the only (!) number 1 in the usa, slow-gospel with a beautiful chorus of vocalists black clip stupid, and a little too synth taste of lou gramm. another disc, then separation from mick. anyway with the arrival of transparent and tasteless rick wills on bass, this group had already lost a lot of his soul. solo career two protagonists: zero for micky, but all-round producer. solo, cons by quite brilliant for lou with another number 1 usa "midnight blue" and a lot of interesting experiences including a tremendous reversal of an niaserie beatlessienne "eight days a week," another of wilson pickett chains of fool ", with nile rodgers! a cover of "stairway to heaven", a short-lived group with vivian campbell, and his trusty bassist bruce torgon. then reformation, a foreigner (with passage taratata ( "rain," mr moonlight album, watch the video and the duet with jojo, "hey joe"), and then the "double vision", but for real! tumor pituitary to lou, ocular compression, neuro-surgery 12 hours, and half a miracle alive, but deformed (hormonal disorders), disfigured, voice still voluntary, but the same. the second shock for everyone! he left foreigner , did some concerts with his brothers, bruce and always torgon, and eventually re-group, which reads the first album. meanwhile, micky box with the former singer of hurricane, and a pack of prestigious musicians, including dokken bassist and the son of the late bonham for drums (he was piqued at ufo cons with a big fat check, dixit phil moog), a sax and madness (even the dvd "alive and rockin ')" then this disc !?... well i wanted to love it, i stick it in a loop in the "walkman" be happy to know alive and singing, singing in the mirror, find the powerful melodies ( "do what ^ you like), but not unheard ( "break it up") the verve ( "soul doctor" rev on the red line "), the simple words (" dirty white boy "), even simplistic (" fool for you anyway "). there is nothing like here: it became a sort of white metal (apology of religion!) distressing banality, or lou spends most of the songs to thank" him "who the 'saved. the songs are neither good nor bad, they are bland and soulless, with a production that has clearly sought to "strengthen" the voice of the highlight but can not. composition does not want to press "replay", some are even winded ( "so great", "made to be broken"), when in "you saved me" is the slow dribbling synths before and behind that he never left home ... foreigner, with the cathedral choirs way to finish ......... a nod to his illness "single vision", not even the ridiculous ... good is (what else ...) run a little better, but never took off. i hope that the future will prove me otherwise, but i doubt it. nothing to see, but i saw the next clip "foreigner-new-look" here is not worth trippet not, the album is not out yet, but it is feared the worst, despite the excellent dvd of the concert badlingen, (and before a public hardos)! that lou remains forever one of my two or three favorite singers, and then so many memories are permanently attached! i would