richard thompson left the ship fairport convention peline glory and flows first one to water the pure folk album of "henry the human fly" (1972): a disc which broke his acoustic guitar skills, his gifts for composition and a great sense of the economy that earned him rave comparisons with ... the band! the same year he met and married linda peters, who is linda thompson, an exceptional singer's voice very pure mouthful emotional restraint. "i want to see the bright lights tonight" is the debut album of the couple. both say right now is a great hard rock, to be included in all lists of classics, along with "revolver," "blonde on blonde", "music from big pink" and others " sticky fingers ... it is also, despite its title, a record of a terrible darkness. thus, the song "the end of the rainbow", written by the couple for the birth of their first child, said: "life seems so rosy in the cradle / but i'll be a friend i'll tell you what's in store / there's nothing at the end of the rainbow / there's nothing to grow up for anymore ... " : who said that the rock years 60-70 was borrowing the sweetness of the blessed end of the thirty glorious years? this poignant despair, often tempered by the clear voice of linda thompson, who supports aisémment comparison with the moving sandy denny, continues in "withered &amp; died" or "the great valerio". and if not despair, then it is a sort of merry cynicism that inhabits songs like "the little beggar girl" (worthy of future ... punks!), or any mournful delicacy in "has he got a friend for me. " for a first joint album, "i want to see the bright lights tonight" is not exactly a hard honeymoon! it may well be one of the darkest records ever recorded! but this terrible darkness does not overshadow the outstanding quality of voices, particularly that of linda, and the accompanying richard is showing once again a highly inspired guitarist, who can distort an acoustic guitar riffs, or look at the contained power: each of his solos is manna from heaven for any guitarist, and in the context of an era rich in esbrouffes guitaristic thompson is distinguished by a game without frills, but remarkably creative. all this makes him an artist worthy as a neil young or van morrison ... but there is still some way to go so he finally confienemnt "cult" and "underground" where it is stored too often, especially in france.