if what follows seems too long we can always stop there with profit and summarize by saying that this is unprecedented, and it's good that the book deserves a purchase. "he was forced to review and as he respected by physical disgust she believed that he courted for good reason. drieu ( "notes ...") no doubt ... that's him. it is beyond the grave as the shot comes again we achieve with these "notes for a novel on sexuality." bright and ambitious text. this book, published by gallimard and presented by julian hervier (decidedly ubiquitous since his remarkable edition of the war diaries of jünger just published in the pleiades) is divided into four parts: 1) the introduction of hervier (45 pages) 2) the text of drieu: "notes on a roman sexuality" (30 pages) 3) a plan for a half page entitled "hours" whose narrative possibilities are in part referring to "notes ..." much like the titles of chapters of a book hypothetical. 4) and finally, a second text drieu seven pages ( "parc monceau") on the cruelties of childhood which is also remarkable. minor board reading: read the introduction (very long) of hervier at the end. literature that is all. one can only dream of the novel could have given those thirty pages, yet so strange, even if it is indeed a canvas, this short text is sufficient in itself and includes a work commme fully fledged. topic? ten years of life. ten years of acute awareness of themselves and women in particular who constantly fail on sex swollen main character. rites of love and death, first and probably last shake before the storm of steel in 1914, then perhaps put an end once and for all. to sum what was planned from the outset as alain in "le feu follet". the first pages of "notes ..." are writing this with extraordinary clinical enferrée in this narrative: drieu writes like a doctor who would be his or her own patient. he observed, is like dissecting an oncologist by the etiology of its own tumor. cancer sex, tumor in the soul that never ceases to gnaw. strange story that is not one, drieu tells nothing and it shows the light illuminates not necessarily nice places: masturbation, inclinations of 'invert hurting others and therefore themselves, soiling themselves, kill themselves? again, it's the same thing. on vision and all the writing does not give us a metaphor in thirty pages! the character lights or more precisely was constructed in real time under the eyes of the reader as in "sentimental education." staining then. open veins with the pen going to gag even (unintentionally?): "but what kept him in the heroism was the ascetic side, destroying the body and the social bond. having no other pascal book a little under two, he experienced an extreme physical ordeal that took a tour of a disqualification "... without knowing very well here if the affliction comes from syphilis or prolonged reading of the "please ask god for the good use of illness." jansenism mortifying pascal killing me ... or: "she does not undress (...) he rudely insists he wants to see. she shows her big breasts puffy. he is ugly and not very young, but he is in ecstasy. it has very quickly and, of course, he is very disappointed (...) "the rhythm of the sentence is engaged, the coil can project its celluloid frames. huge writer s'ausculte saying "he" rather than "i", for shame! by julien hervier (let the dream). drieu? in the words of ernst jünger with his usual malice "we exchanged in 1915 a few shots. drieu" my companion and walking meditation unbeaten in the bag to the high station i saw pierced by more than one mortal blow on the parapet bare our modest (...) metempsychosis burning altar, he dedicated his soul to me (...) i received prompt migration of his eternal passion "pierre drieu la rochelle" metempsychosis " canteen fund. 1920 he may not be missed.