if pornography has become, de facto, 'fashionable', this book is far from satisfying confirmations or extensions of what we already know more or less. one of the major interests of the work of patrick baudry and resides in the angle of approach chosen, and in particular its desire to focus primarily on the pornographic video. in cinephile, he is extremely careful to play the camera that it shows what she grows, she forgets; authorize plans to transition from sequence to sequence, but also, that is more courageous and more stimulating ways to see induced in the viewer. the book is extremely rich, sometimes repetitive, sometimes so obscure, as in my case, it is not introduced to authors such as levinas, and we do not really understand the meaning of a phrase like 'the body of the body the other '. but even without that structure continues to be interesting because this particular color that condenses the term of involvement '- a term necessarily empty, but a good text, as it manages to expand over the pages, failing to clear it. avoiding the trap of bourdieuseries somewhat mechanical focuses solely on the legitimacy of porn (especially in his opposition to the eroticism), he points the finger of the strong porn, that any viewer can experience (and it is too subtle to wear to demonstrate the generality of this reading, leaving memories play drive to a kind of empathy). pornography is thus for him a 'form of media coverage of the immediate', including the cancellation of any narrative. everything must be visible, spread, and the film plays more like 'support', it can be viewed upside down, on a poorly defined: this is not of a contingency related to poor producers, but a repetition and boredom that feed the success of the genre. this is aptly he rejects the idea of provocation or rebellion driven by porn: one of his secrets is just not involved, to say nothing. the radius of regret, we must be careful to call what he justifies the absence: no analysis of different genres, very few references to specific films or little analysis of the marking of bodies placed in sets according sex, age ... porn is just a wish for reconciliation and peace that minimizes the significance of these distinctions. by cons, it might be regretted that the term 'world' is not sufficiently developed, including a treatment perspective of space. and especially since patrick baudry has also worked on cities. thus a passage where he mentions a sex shop located right next to a bus stop: it emphasizes the open demonstration of serious people waiting for the bus, their desire to avoid potentially ambiguous complicity, then it fits him even inside the sex shop and sets his eyes on the images where everything is given immediately, without further ado. his writing reminds extremely suggestive steps of richard sennett in the streets of new york and it came almost to regret that patrick baudry not prolong this evocation of the sociability of sex shops where he came so easily and so pleasure. theme that has been treated by cons in a much more extensive, but often with less subtlety, by the anglo-saxon writers, including gay (michael warner, for example). anyway, the writing of patrick baudry, delectable, many households also remarks that make the book very rich and most importantly, it had the merit of choosing an angle of approach is highly relevant, and never fall into facilities or clichés that litter the course yet (bulk: place of desire, sexual liberation and porn, treatment of women, such invalidity). an excellent guide so (even for those who sometimes have difficulty understanding the meaning of certain tests)