this book is disturbing. i have already read books on druidism. but this one comes really low over the daisies. the first chapter is on the symbolism of the celtic cross. after many time considerations are deeply racist, and the author insists each time to clarify what he said is not racist! it is well informed from the beginning that this is not directed at western celtic pure pork. (existent'ils?) p 23: "well known to all our brothers and sisters, as druidism is intended only for western. p32, a new layer: "druidism itself as the expression of the celtic soul ... that is on our western land. it is not racist in this sense (but in another sense, the is?) that our philosophy does not our race as an elected body "(!)." but our philosophy of love (sic) is a religion free because it connects all those who feel celtic. "( you can see the coherence of sentences!) "druidism is chiefly aimed to open the minds celtic (again!) and western (ie white?) to the knowledge of the changing world." always has the same page "it is essentially important to revive the celtic soul in people who has been ... désapris our science." we learn with interest that science tends to cinqieme dimension ... it must be just remember that the concept of race is not scientifically recognized, especially since the use of means less coarse as genetics and ... the term ethnic, that could replace designated persons sharing a common culture ... and the celtic culture is regarded as proto. it no longer exists, neither the "celtic people. old gallic either. we realize that the rituals described are happening in canada, and it has changed for this reason the oak to maple. by the end of the first chapter, we shall mail address to receive correspondence courses the college celtic-druidic! which the boss is called "grand druid renatos iv"! the prayers end by amen, we said that this is not the hebrew, but the celtic and means "word of man!. we must also remember that before the celts, many people have emmigration in europe and the celts were not indigenous. and all western whites are far from celtic! this book is from a druidic neo group has strong ethnic lines. this is all the more disturbing it was written by a contemporary, and not by an elder who had written it earlier in the century with narrow prejudices, but he was drafted in the 21st century in canada! an unbroken tradition like the japanese shinto accepts all ethnicities, and the priests of american, canadian and netherlands, there are also megaliths in japan and africa, which proves that put racial and ethnic concepts in a neo druidism which is a fantastic recovery is an aberration.