after all the hype that has been made about this book, i had accidentally hands, i thought it was only pretend to have some fun, but it is not case. it is a merciless diatribe against supermarkets and especially against the customers of these stores. in all professions where one is dealing with the public, we need to let off steam, but generally it is not outside the family circle or friends. sat anna wants to "share" is his right, but she tends to abuse it. although i can still say for the author that his book is readable, very quickly, in an easy and free issue. there is not one to be left until the end. if you must stop reading, take it up with interest. its form is simple, accessible to all, it's still an asset. for the rest, that is to say, in substance, there is much to criticize. it seems that anna sat has hated this job, she worked for eight years. it was the prison for her! what did she left earlier? customers, we are all, to take their grade! poor society as it is described! it is shame for us! ah, human relations, i regret that the author has found interesting no consideration, no satisfaction in his profession. i do not think the cashiers and cashiers - i have always respected and i always found the task difficult but certainly very noble, because they have an important role in my point of view - all have that look black their work. those who have recommended anna sam in his writing, and she thanked the end of the book ought to make him aware that he must temper his speech. it is good to find positive arguments in any statement of this kind, instead of persisting. she could talk about cool customers - there anyway! - or show some touching scenes! but anna sam was probably taken in the momentum of denunciations of bad manners! i hope that all the cashiers that i have the opportunity to cross were not life hell described in "the tribulations of a cashier. to me, this book will not change my relationship with them, for me they are not and have never been robots, however i refuse to use the ticket machines ...