i'm a fan of dorothea immeasurable, too, is an impatience and with great joy that i expected the last out in the box dvds of these shows at bercy. finally may 18, when the output of the precious box . the first surprise is rather good, the price of box 4 dvds for 25 euros is really given., beautiful packaging, lovely writing, a summary of what promises great time ended up with do, promise to see the entire concert! i spending my hard earned 25 euros today, after acquiring the box, i quickly returned home to rediscover on dvd concerts that i had already seen vhs tape. first worse surprise when reading the list of songs of concert bercy 90, i noticed that the songs of muscles (the father christmas muscles) and the song bernard minet (the knights of the zodiac) are not in concert. not cool, but there is no loss of life. i enter the dvd bercy 90 ready to spend a moment of madness, and then the nightmare begins. the intro is cut, the pictures are the same as the vhs, and filled with amazement, exit the final sequence in which dorothy, pick flowers from fans, and embrace. ditto for concerts 92, 94 and 96. (intro cut to the concert of 92) and (final carve for all) i say that the bonus will catch the case, we'll be able to see behind the scenes do in china, repeating short from what is written on the menu that'll do. i am amused to calculate the duration of the bonus is this: the back-courses: 4 minutes (seen elsewhere on tf1 in '93)-the trailers concerts: 3 minutes' 1 minute 50 per ad '(also seen on tf1)-the final settings: 4 minutes' they are not backstage at the shows' (also seen on tf1 in '93), dorothy in china: 1 minute, 30 in contrast ab production takes his time to show us her beautiful gingle that you can not zap, which lasts 50 seconds though, the beginning and end of each concert. so, a question comes to mind is that production people do not know that the dvds last longer than vhs, and we can put at least four films each support! or else knows the desire of fans to have dorothy something to put in the tooth to wait until his return as expected, does not he have simply taken for idiots by launching a bogus poll on the website of the singer, saying anyway, they are all so starved, they go well, be happy to have at least that. what the people of ab do not know may be is that now there are software to create its own dvds, from vhs. so, good advice, please, save, download, or rip your old vhs, but do not buy this kit, like me, you'll be very disappointed by its content, and you will feel you are doing by stealing her you loved as a child.