when i was 15 years (i was born after the film during the "war") was my favorite movie and my book too (which i know passages by heart). long time i have seen nothing but problems with love more or less unsuccessful, and like many, i tried to cling to the few lines of margaret mitchell who let the swing say "i will find a solution for it return ". in fact there is never a happy end in life and what is often missed for good. this story is a series of disasters for her scarlett which is the heart of this historical saga. first the war (like ours and our exodus and our wealth lost) and the deaths of these young people and parents and daughter's husband (whom she actually laughs). but the worst disaster is to have missed the opportunity to really love, the most poignant moments of the film are those where she and him (rhett) will play a sad comedy where pride dominates so that they are dying one and one love. ashley and melanie personified rectitude and love "christian" and sense of duty than the other two do go after their desires. the actors are all impeccable. they said that the role of rhett had been offered to gary cooper (who is also a very big) but i think the interpretation would have been more chilling. i would have liked to see vivien leigh in the role of elizabeth bennet's vivacity was an asset. the sweetness of leslie howard and his so-british phlegm is the character in the novel does not really move us. the intelligent affection melanie is remarkably translated by olivia de havilland. everyone has a past that is gone with the wind of things that were lost have been the wealth of our youth are often found as scarlett and say helpless "what will become of me" is probably why we all love this movie. this is not just a love story is a bit of our history. the colors of the time the film was a marvel, but we are happy not to have the black and white in particular all the scenes where the social life is put on the screen (reception, ball flight, crinolines etc. ..) a classic that you do not tire even if it is known by heart