already? oh, it was quiet! as the world goes fast! we did not have time to blink, or even listen to the whole discography of black flag and already released the first album of ersatz ... mgmt. anyway, all that was written. all sensible people have long understood that the duo of brooklyn would be tortured starsystemisés, recovered by the hype, ie evenings parisian decadent (velvétiennes? uh no, not really ...), les inrockuptibles, the myspace trendy youth, marketing, in short, cream, whatever. mgmt and the poor to defend themselves, to persevere in their show electro-psychedelic songs and quasi-literary to stand out from the crowd. but what had happened: the duo, unfortunately, became famous. and the mayonnaise has taken, i suppose. people dancing to the sound of "kids" (which is, incidentally, not a soup for jukebox musty but a dancefloor anthem absolute) starting to have serious slab seem to demand more: this is that emi offered them by dropping, ladies and gentlemen, the empire of the sun. this duo-still? "- the land of kangaroos is, they say in town," new mgmt. and the worst part is that the fools who have unleashed this sentence are correct. the empire of the sun are photocopies, clone manufacturers, copies of those who do not want to be called management. in the era of the visual is the only thing that matters after all. what they said ... ah yes, music. the singer is vocally, a caricature of andrew van wyngarden, songs come and go like: copies more or less consist of securities of mgmt, an album that sounds like a compilation to show, half trip-hop ( " the world "), half-dance (" walking on a dream "," swordfish hotkiss night "), with a strange mixture between techno and boring and country (" country ", well yes). nothing more to say. we sleep with one consolation: when the empire of the sun mania is over, the opportunistic bastards pass by the wayside, as is happening (temporarily, hopefully) in new york duo whose name is too often cited in this article for empire of the sun is a group of its own.