whether this is a comment not really gone. the dozen surfers who have already given their opinion without exception attribute the maximum score in this "who sell out" and i found not so great as that. the who, was a great live band, which published a handful of brilliant singles (which does not always sure found the album) and has generally lost his time in the studio recording of 33 t. the who, was the violence music, led by the reels of riffmaster townsend, the physical performance of daltrey, the rule cabossage drums by moon and entwistle huge paw of which made its low hum. here, none of this. "sell out" is a concept album, the first of a series that will eventually bury their credibility. even if the concept is brilliant and visionary, focused on advertising that interferes slyly in all actions of our lives. but townsend is a type gifted enough to write pieces on the subject without resorting to (funny) false advertising that ultimately interfere music, even if it was the intention. and townsend was right, when we now see all groups, from the unknown to the biggest headliners, who before a tour, seeking sponsors first before thinking about the set-list that they offer every night . and although these interludes are pretty successful, advertisers have often managed to do even better ... involuntarily ( "mammoth crushes prices, was still daring). the songs of the original 33 t (the first thirteen tracks on this cd reissue) are almost all pop invoice. and even if great successes ( "armenia ...", "mary ann ..." "i can see for miles" and "rael" in which we find the theme music and the gimmicks that are the basis from "tommy"), townsend in the format strictly pop is much better ( "the kids are alright," "pictures of lily", "behind blue eyes", ...). and "sell out" is a tone below what was the english competition in the same vein and at the same time, the beatles' rubber soul "and" revolver ", the stones of" aftermath ", the kinks "face to face." when the ten bonus this reissue, it is money drawer (and even if what is found in the drawers of the who is often better than what others are showcase) much rock and goes inside and that show with the fine compositions of 33 t initial. "sell out" is not necessarily the best studio record the who (personal, it's late and violent "who's next which receives my vote). and in many ways is a work "at hand" in their discography. strictly necessary? hmm ... yes, if one has already "who's next," "live at leeds", and a good compilation of their 45 t.