this cd offers tantalizing records ferenc fricsay dedicated to the repertoire of the twentieth century, from the archives of the westdeutsche runfunk and performed with the orchestra of radio cologne in the early 1950s. the "divertimento for strings" bartók and "sacre du printemps stravinsky, respectively captured may 4 and october 5, 1953, side by side with the prints of those works for deutsche grammophon with the symphony orchestra of radio berlin. the discovery of these documents leaves me feeling very disappointing: the interpretation of "sacre" seems to hesitate between poetry and naturalist ritual celebration, reaching hard to capture the interest, except to note that unfortunately the different episodes appear to have been awkwardly juxtaposed mounting tapes as some sequences are artificial. the sound is rather strange and unbalanced, stroking the wood (in the spring round like a concerto for bass clarinet) but withered strings into a pale and distant flap. a because of scansion inaudible, augurs the arrival of spring, so to speak, falls totally flat! percussion suffers a relief almost nonexistent, which removes a lot of weight to the glorification of the chosen, or the sacrificial dance, despite what the energy deploys hungarian conductor. the hearing of "divertimento" not leaves me less than enthusiastic: allegro non troppo switch, the molto adagio (emotional heart of this page) seems so feel ... while the final tests the limits of cohesion between the german and bows exteriorizes folklore that would spread on the surface. the "violin concerto" stravinsky was captured july 8, 1951. the transcendent virtuosity of arthur grumiaux plays course catalog of technical pitfalls that pepper the text maliciously, but make sure it is always followed by the orchestra. phrasing ransom who delight in freedom, yet predictable mechanics of the toccata and capriccio threat sometimes derail. at least the moods deadpan laugh two central arias are finely identified and served. i'll try to forget this disc shows that only very imperfectly the genius of these two artists that i admire so much , whose insignia is talent here apparently the victim of adverse circumstances and served by a recording technique precarious. ps: the back of the box is marked "stereo". if this indicates that these recordings are stereo, which is unlikely but not impossible for the time, we do not convince them to listen.