you, the blues lovers with muscular rhythmic bass drum that supports a guitar hero marvel at the intoxicating solos, this album is for you. it does in fact none of the above ... this album is the opposite of an almost total count: mostly guitar, bass or cello and track. oh yeah, no battery! sacrilege do you think? well no! me too fond of the muscular blues of i also bow to the talent and the world of this artist. his music is both classic (the pieces are based primarily on rhythmic appearances fairly simple) but also in some modern arrangements and sounds (the soaring "sounds of attica »...). otis taylor is one flayed alive, black child in america for 50 years, he has a lot to say and to convey messages. and it does not interfere. many texts refer to slavery, of course, but otis does not hesitate to talk about his own injuries such as his mother was in prison for selling heroin. the liner notes help to explain a little more sense of each song. we may well criticize many things to otis taylor, but certainly not his commitment and integrity. this transpires from the man, who saw it live know what i mean, for others, just watch his eyes on the cover of the album ... this album is the most perfect jewel of a diamond in a pure state: the song "buy me some freedom" which closes the album. as the liner notes indicate, this is the lament of a young girl of african origin in america in the 60's who expresses his dreams of access to a freer life: "wish i could go down to a department store, buy me some freedom. " the text is of course very strong, the arrangements are based on guitar, bass, cello and trumpet, which gives a light jazzy side. moreover otis taylor left to interpret this song to his 17 year old daughter, cassie. probably the idea of the century it was the way of an angel. by this song i discovered this artist in a concert. immediately i was struck by the heady melody, the first chills have been felt, and cassie began to sing and there knotted throat, watery eyes ... musically speaking, one of the greatest moments of my life. this album is the perfect medium for those who want to shake their convictions and enter the world of a bluesman of the most interesting yet. they will discover a great soul.