the charismatic ian gillan is back, between two tours purple, with a new album: one eye to morocco quite musically eclectic as usual. the press releases have evoked a strong resemblance to the album gillan / glover 1988. this is indeed the case and i will add a touch of dreamcatcher (98) and a point naked thunder (89). a hint and a hint because i said the final result is quite mixed and i do not know exactly where wanted to come ian gillan. firstly, the production does not hold up and the first impression is to listen to the album compressed version but unfortunately it was already the case on previous solo lp alone toolbox was doing about well. the tracklisting, badly arranged, does not predispose to get into the listener's pocket. one eye to morocco opens the album on a pleasant mid tempo ... when fleimmarde terrace on sunday afternoon after too heavy leg of the stepmother. no lotion for that distills a rock no more sympathetic and it was not until the next song, do not stop, to feel his toes move somewhat with the set of congas while fine mr.gillan. change my ways is transparent as david mccallum in the man and invisible girl goes to show sweat deep trouble. at this stage of listening, the urge to press the fast forward button is much like but feel good as better days and deal with it saves half of this album. better days is a blues careful where ian gillan's voice is beautifully enhanced by soft play by michael lee jackson. deep bass and stalls that are reminiscent of place in line, ooh there, who do they think we are 73! deal with it, mid-tempo bass led by rodney appleby, the smells of accidentally on purpose gillan / glover, twenty years (!) earlier, ian gillan seems slyly interpret his piece. it would be nice always the traveler show inspired ian gillan, dancing, serious, sympathetic and sad, the rest of the album for his remains to the image of the other titles. the general impression that i hear most about this new album is: tired. what happened to the ian gillan live at anaheim, naked thunder or toolbox? too many rounds dp? the weight to age (i dare not think)? bad choice of co-composers (still!)? or just the wrong moment: theirs or ours? the question remains unanswered. greatly disappointed ...