before starting this review, let me first say that i'm a fan of tiesto unchallenged since its debut on the international scene and particularly with his series of compilations magik started in the late 90s. i followed the 'news and progression of this dj with nimble fingers who scored himself in the history of trance and will undoubtedly be the biggest dj trance scene that have never happened. i literally melted listening to his solo albums such as "in my memory," "just be" and "elements of life" as well as the entire series "in search of sunrise" and those moments are so special to today ' today the most beautiful that i could live through this music so unique, wonderful and magical trance. each release of an album or a compilation by the master tiesto became a true international event and when j i learned making this new version, i was seized with an uncontrollable enjoyment frankly because this man had never disappointed, well, not yet! to be frank, what i took in the face at 'kaleidoscope listening to this, i have not seen happen even if i myself were gently prepared to listen to different tracks released before the album. the major fact and herald a turnaround music tiesto is the king came to share his radio show "club life" which since the beginning of 2009 was driven slowly but surely toward a highly commercial style that has not been any taste of his biggest fans! the second thing that challenged me was the album art as accustomed to seeing a tiesto very quiet, reserved and simple compared to his colleague, armin van buuren, that it shocked me. i found it inappropriate to the character, very pretentious and mounted guetta sauce for a greater impact on some laid clientele! in addition, tracks the number of seventeen and a very short time and of course unusual for alleged trancyl pieces, could not deceive the true lovers of this musical style. before discovering the titles, was convened to make us understand that this time, tiesto will turn to other public and have done so well and with great "success" avb, joc, atb and judge on their last album me! i originally went to comment on all tracks of the album but i am so disgusted by dj productions that i changed my mind, i'm not one to hurt me just for fun. this i am able to say is that kaleidoscope is a marvel music (just kidding of course) and it is only intended for an audience of amateur and commercial voice tracks as you can hear every weekend in french clubs. the fact of seeing him collaborate with artists such as calvin harris, tegan &amp; sara, nelly furtado, emily haines, cary brothers, priscilla ahn and so forth merely confirms this feeling to the image of what is now armin van buuren in all its prods. to the best examples i quote "i will be here," "feel it in my bones," "who wants to be alone" and in fact almost all the tracks on the album except "kaleidoscope "and" fresh fruit "are the only ones who truly stand out from others. i would therefore say that tiesto has made a mish mash of tracks pop-trance, house and electro that are inaudible to me and frankly disappointing that the part of the netherlands, but fans of commercial music will no doubt find their account. as a friend said, this album is just the business and about money even though i strongly doubt that tiesto is lacking on this side! ! in conclusion i would say that tiesto is really decided to change his style to hope to reach a greater number of listeners (had he really needed ???), it is trying one last gamble because it tired of the universe trance in which it evolves over ten years now. in any case, whether it be his last solo album before retiring, is a sacred gift for all poisoned his biggest fans and even a lack of respect for those who so aptly captured the emotion of the crowd to transcribe his music