producer jean rochard (the formidable labels nato, hope street) brought together the core of minneapolis and minneapolis discs we insist! michel portal published a few years ago. namely tony hymas (keyboards), jef lee johnson (guitar), sonny thompson (bass) and michael bland (drums) plus new converts that integrate with local color without difficulty and with evident pleasure: the saxophonist tony malaby, the guitarist / bassist erik fratzke, bassist françois moutin, percussionist airto moreira, or drummer jt bates. in the end, it employs a variable geometry (tony hymas is the only practically immovable) which allows the clarinetist / saxophonist varying climates and orientations of the new directory. the album opens with "nada mas," a tribal groove and enjoyment that recalls the hard docking. malaby max out a theme for portal hyper-energetic, backed by a rhythm-based activities (moutin, fratzke, bates and moreira). we find the same set a little further on "the sandpiper", an intense lament, in turn burning and collected, a simmering beauty. in the meantime, we have tasted "lantern swiss," which is more hypnotic in the merger. the rhodes cotton hymas, play guitar tortuous jef lee johnson, the telepathic rhythm sonny thompson and michael bland (almost inseparable since their collaboration with prince in the early 90s), carve a wonderful setting for the bass clarinet leader. the disc crossed by the imprints haunting and powerful themes, delicious and guidance to the unexpected, as a principle of non-negotiable basis, maintains a across a high degree of care and quality. we particularly appreciated "the bad waitress", smart and powerful groove (with the team hymas / johnson / bland / thompson) in which jazz and rock meet and introduce ultimately, the ghostly atmosphere of "lake street". a memorable piece whose ethereal introduction differs explosion of a solid boogie and multicultural, with a theme typical "portalien" writing hybrid (one foot in jazz, one in contemporary music, head oriented trails non-western) which gives rise to a fiery dialogue with tony malaby. tony malaby who the leader is making a song with two voices on "tadorna," a ballad whose theme sublime and malicious prelude to a solo of upsetting malaby ( those worthy of it engraved on the garden of eden paul motian), then a metamorphosis into a new groove energy. "distant lanoan, sweet and charming, calm back temporarily, before" calico vanity "which appear in watermark some tutelary figures of modern jazz dear to michel portal (eric dolphy, miles davis, weather report). we can still enjoy the resumption express' lantern swiss, "and the neo-bop of" impatience. " and finally "blue lighthouse, and beautiful miniature unclassifiable, which seems to be both the conclusion of birdwatcher, and heralding the opening of a future album ... we await with impatience.