at the risk of not brushing the majority in the grain, i'll give an honest opinion, which is only my opinion but that is so different from those i have read that it may be useful to some. i heard a lot about this book without ever having tried to learn the subject. after a brief moment of euphoria expecting to be grabbed by the story or style or both, any magic that could make, i realized that i missed terribly, and something that didn ' is almost never happened, i gave up after 10 chapters so the book does not clung at all, but then not at all. the dialogues in which characters speak in simple past ring true as a casserole, i do not identify anyone, the story does not present a major attraction at first. if you're brave, try to sail through the chapter 10. in short, i had a real disappointment with this book. however, being stubborn by nature, i decided after several months to resume playing, it is by masochism? is this by feeling of missing something? i do not know. i have done violence to return m'engluer molasses in this reading. i do not regret it because i discovered the true intentions of the author. they are expressed quite clearly in chapter 3 of part ii. in sum, write a novel about the process of gestation of a novel. quite brilliantly, gide reveals all the weaknesses of his book may annoy the reader, artificial appearance of structure, etc.. it is therefore very courageous to him taking the party to this book knowing the obstacles he would encounter. it is a very rigorous work has delivered the author, but this does not mean masterpiece and this is where i compare it to an array of museum of modern art: if you understand the process but you're not excited about the final realization, you go to a moron who does not understand, just before a table where you understand but you feel abject hear you say you are ignorant in art . to conclude, there is some skill in this book, but this does not mean a certain virtuosity because it really is not a book that transports me or do beat anything in me, or if i read this not to see a formal exercise of a writer is to feel something resonate within me. you decide.