this book has many interests. it is very well written. easy to read, well structured, clear. i think it is very affordable by adolescents. the speech is not limited, far away, operation valkyrie, unlike what the title suggests. it covers a much wider issue, the german resistance to nazism. he is a concise, but precise. p 13 to 193, it is a presentation that covers the events from a presentation of the target "hitler" to the various attempts. this book tells the essential. to complete, we can obviously continue for "joachim fest, for example (but jp picaper cites facts that fest does not). and the inevitable "by ian kershaw. another book, more specialized, is fascinating: "". picaper jp also gives very interesting items on the mood that prevailed in germany on the major attack of operation valkyrie. very long, those who had organized and carried out were considered as traitors, well after the end of the war. the second part of the book until page 417, offers testimony. either some protagonists of the attack on july 20, 1944, having escaped the massive purge that followed, or children of some of the participants then killed, or their descendants. these stories are rich. intelligence, dignity, humility. they allow a better understanding of events and the approach of the opponents of nazism. they are also interesting because they n'éludent not difficult questions (eg is it legitimate to kill hitler?), and the different ways address them. picaper jp also raises many record straight in light of recent historical findings, and makes their honor to the officers that bad legend would make them more responsible in using documents whose authenticity is dubious (l origin close to the kgb said those doubts). in this respect, it reverses some exciting presentation of the book "the wehrmacht in the holocaust." many germans were ignorant of the implementation of the final solution. it is recalled here. this comes as a response to other readings that i recently made: "" "". i also appreciated the film references, and some analytical points thereto. finally, a book of photographs (16 pages center) gives a lively presentation.