need we say more? ... in one word: "grandiose" number of michelin stars: the maximum possible. on the audio: an eclectic set list in all though for my liking the album "the visit is over-represented compared to others like (including parallel dreams). i liked songs like standing stones, dicken's dublin, in praise of christmas, snow or tango to evora instead of cymbeline or bonny portmore &amp; kecharitomene in place of marco polo ... but all that is good to taste personal. the least: if extremely disappointed by the highly compressed version of lady of shalott total of 9 of the 14 verses were deleted &amp; we pass an original version of 11 minutes in a live version of 5 minutes or about half the previous version of live (live in paris &amp; toronto 9min 30sec). perhaps i liked both versions of the bonny swans with the final part (solos) a little longer. too bad also that about the mystic's dream, the hearts of the intro from the original studio &amp; not directly sung live by the presence of vocal or the musicians themselves at the scene. finally a pity that the solos on never-ending road have not played the bagpipes on the irish as the most original musician who takes care of this in the studio &amp; on stage but equally beautiful violin &amp; cello . some highlights of the cd / dvd (audio only): the mummer's dance (with much better battery) the bonny swans (with much better battery) caravanserai santiago (tank on the 1st listen for the presence of '... a battery at the same time the live version in paris &amp; toronto was so exceptional that necessarily difficult to do better but not much like this version, the violin is in great shape) raglan road (very beautiful music of provided that this piece is not on any of his studio recordings that enjoys an advantage) never-ending road (so touching song) &amp; a monumental version of the instrumental huron 'beltane' fire dance (what final with battery) since i heard this song live at paravas effect is unexpected. regarding the image nothing wrong everything is perfect. by purchasing this package you purchase a beautiful or a beautiful gift.