after their separation in 1982, their true-false return in 1994, the trial-eagles don felder, our rock stars to the (early) retirement we offer unexpected resurrection to celebrate the release of this (double) album in october 2007. but nearly 2 years after the release of this disc expected, once past the surprise and curiosity that remains there this album? the answer is: not much, the songs go by and pass away. it does not keep memories of those 2 rounds, besides the authors them-they are just reported as they also announced that there would be no other new album in the future. poutas album starts well with "no more walks in the wood", a song a capella with his voice chaining us to paste the goosebumps. the single "how long" (old title written in 1972 by jd souther!) tries to make us the scope of "take it easy" or "already gone", but much worse. "busy being fabulous" is a good piece, signed henley / frey, as in the heyday, slick organ, chorus memorable bread blessed for u.s. radio. then it was the gate with very mièvreux "what do i do with my heart," "i don 't want to hear any more "&amp;" do something ", the variety of pure juices, it continues with the very common" guilty of crime "&amp;" fast company ". fortunately don henley catches up with" waiting in the weeds "and the album ends with "you are not alone" which happens to seduce us with its folk impulses and tips us 30 years earlier, at the time of gentle guitar intros of picking. the second cd starts pretty well, " long road out of eden "is definitely the best album title: arabist intro, guitar solos inspired and magnificent voice of don henley arises on grandiose arrangements. the eagles then bind a pell-mell knoppflerien very instrumental, a nice rock "somebody" seems a bit out of a best of santana's "last good time in town", "business as usual" and "frail grasp on the big picture" are not very inspired and are sealed by a excessive length and fatigue almost inevitable. glenn frey us out a little ballad "i love to watch a woman dance, the irish light fragrance, nice but not memorable. the cd ends with" it's your world now ", spiced with (mis) mexican sauce, as the weakest of the album falls into the range of the worst kind. ultimately, this album is a true comeback by the eagles, he had already won to be simple instead of be double, and looks more like a command lucrative their label as a need of artistic expression.