away from the cacophony of masturbation tricky, the relative inconsistency of massive attack and indifference displayed by morcheeba, portishead reveals, from its inception, the trip-hop at its best. nobody at the time, able to inject in this paroxysm of slow, emotional panel also varied. on a night heavy anguish was suspended almost morriconienne, elegance striking a dissonant groove, sensual and sophisticated, without forgetting the melodies and urban high autumnal melancholy tone, poignant depth to the wetting eye portishead entered his work among the finest musical prowess of the years ninety. away from the histrionics of some cultivated rock icons of the decade, beth gibbons is still arched backward like a teenager and badly in his skin, a teenage girl who tickles yet his fate by leaving the family farm at twenty two years to run as a singer bristol. success is inevitable when so much is that woman siren, capable of seducing, intensely disturbing, whatever the musical atmosphere proposed. the trio of geoff barrow and adrian utley, two musicians at the height of his talent, allows portishead to know a quick success on both sides of the atlantic. the three artists then deny it wisely by modesty and mystery. the eponymous successor dummy (1994) is meditated, worked and prepared over three years out of the spotlight, before being unveiled to the ears of all. even more than most of the work group, this concert, recorded in 1997 at the roseland ballroom in new york, graciously delivers the authenticity missing so far in the trip-hop. inoculation subtle spontaneity, irregularities and other imperfections unique to living appears to be the antidote sublimatory sounding hip-hop electro readily sampled, remanufactured, reshaped and disembodied. perfectly balanced by the momentum of humanity, trip-hop, at least one, definitely stands out music at 100% artificial electronic spectrum, and established himself as one of the major artistic creations of the decade. the collaboration of the philharmonic orchestra of new york is wonderful, its interventions are appropriately integrated into the overall effort without ever encroaching on the expression of the core trio. some arrangements are even totally redesigned the greatest happiness of religionnaire because even in the constant concern of a human and emotional authenticity. for silky, jazzy atmospheres successive lightning strikes a heavy suffering, especially the dark and persistent concern that no popular music had hitherto both aroused. gibbons continues to mutate from a plaintive vocals and tortured to a sensual and naive charm, the immaturity of the most moving to the more menacing madness, completely driven by his two companions whose groove is as chameleon. the eleven tracks of the concert and largely transcend their studio version. the contribution of the image on a dvd released a year later, only adds a little more fascination for the evening religionnaire divine. this work must also be regarded as the finest testament of trip-hop, a genre that what remains of depth and authenticity will be destroyed by the demands of popular music in the new millennium.