with a step back anyway, and a minimum of objectivity we can not really say that this album is good. probably he listens. he listens to it all! the cd will go into drive and suddenly it will say "want? music is stopped!" absolutely no title is catchy! no lump either in or register melodic brutal! can criticize what we want but a subliminal melodies proved to some extent catchy, good songs that do not stick to slipknot course. this new album slipknot consists of three types of pieces. first titles "brutal". these are either out of a recipe to the old (all hope is gone) is a big mess that runs in a loop (gemetria) to finally get nowhere! gemetria like an intro too long trying to make a nickname rise to blister exist or disasterpiece. except that there is limit sucks! and the end is even longer, infinitely traine ... expected one thing is that the song stops ... this is not really effective! pity, because the piece is full of good ideas ... but also (many) very bad! the native of iowa, then we offer a range of titles that are a mixture of pseudo-violence mentioned above and melody. this eagerly embodied by the song (too?) clear of taylor. a clear voice that could be described ... ugly or hateful. to deny the influence of stone sour on the vocals of corey is really a bad faith of the most excessive and extreme. the clean vocals with his excessive reverb and surmixage nauseating really despicable. these securities are like filthy copies of a sub-machine head on acid both places are being carnival brushing often anything. to compare these securities gojira, it must be under even more acidic than the new! it is certainly nothing happening during these dynamic pieces timidly. the best illustration of my pro is the repulsive sulfur, certainly not horrible, nauseating as butcher's hook whose entire frieze listening impossible. for others, the ultra repetitive psychosocial top, it will do good ideas scuttled. and of course we will not cut for walks and two francs six sous to pass whether they served to calm something. now here is so boring as lack of energy is obvious, that we will eventually walks in complete boredom! in conclusion, even if a whole album is quite listenable, it will retain nothing of interesting. on the previous misdeeds there was at least one or two songs seductive! for it must be said that this was the force of slipknot, namely the science of refrains, delirious violence (with an overdose of which are well fuck laugh), and rhythmic burnées are no more. contrary to what i have read usually impeccable jordison is far from monstrous on this opus. the battery is obviously over-mixed it but then there also any clown who hammered a double pedal is able to play these parts. the depth plays show that all hope is gone is an album that will leave you sluggish, depressed and really irrelevant. the worst album of slipknot? worse than the last korn? yes, yes, you can! so much for the next slipknot `there will be a duet with bullet for my valentine!