cooked and annealed by the sun, grilled double-sided as the restaurant, these bronzes smell singed. it must be acknowledged that there was going backwards, as this cynical junk stinks for miles and seems devoid of sincerity. yet, once in the room, it also admits that "the bronzes" vintage comedies are very striking, which was fun to remember. then a third part, why not after all. but that it should be dark, be it a little celebration. or not. these bronzes are yellowed by uv, no sun does not give them color. there is nothing joyful in this comedy, it's terrible. nothing gay, no light. they are not bidochons who are returning, are the barons of french film coming amuse the populace in a 5 star hotel. see jugnot, all the more sinister simulate a psychological paralysis allows him to make the mentally deficient, the clown cheap, like i am the most powerful man of french cinema and yet i do the c ** . and then i play the redneck but i save my soul in extremis. see michel "hello it's me as the wig" white, how he moves into his first plan, is cuckoo for the camera, the viewer. looks like he says, "they are glad the idiots in the room? they bought their ticket, they want to relax, eh?". the characters of thirty years ago are dead. but there have been any resume as before, the character of lhermitte (the worst actor of all, no doubt) remains what it was: a queutard superficial, careless, assumed, how nice. here we find him with his old woman (ornella mutti, sad) and his mistress, he is mean. besides, he no longer called popeye, it disgusts him, but robert. ro-bert. strangely, the only christian clavier fared nearly so. it has never been hilarious or even really tolerable keyboard, but it's still his job to fool with application. there he tries to give rhythm to the film, it does its job without superego, unlike michael "wannabe author tortured" white or populist jugnot. as for the scenario, it's mouth full of foutage. imagine the pitch: dominique lavanant just revenge keyboard which plastic surgeon, had missed its window-dressing. then she makes a false bear paw and claw head bald michel blanc. that's all. we dream. and say they drink to friendship, while all the characters hate each other ... this film is about self-hatred (the "whore of europe!" qu'éructe white's character, exiled "to the states"), a sort of disgust egocentric, full of resentment: they hate their characters of thirty years ago, obviously, it shows. why make the film, then? for the money, yes, we suspect. then the players make tons urging them like lemons, then throw them in the trash. and pass on the shelves for tvs drool their friendship, saying they had fun like crazy, it was so good to be back together, and you're all invited, with 8 euros, to observe remotely hygienic they adore each other. obviously everything is filmed in a cavalier, it's ugly, like those helicopter shots that serve no purpose except to justify the 35 million euro budget. and the film is loudmouth, it hurts the head. stopping here is pathetic.