the punisher is an exception in the marvel universe, long before the appearance of wolverine, he can be considered the first anti-hero of the universe of spider man. ravaged by the death of his family, frank castle became the once a cop, judge and executioner against ruthless criminals. just like hulk, the punisher appears first as to assert in spider man and daredevil before having his own series in the 90s that will have very little of interest. risen by garth ennis (preacher) in 2000, the series finally takes his first flight into adventures ranging from the grotesque and the ultra violence tarrantinesque then in the max series in a dark and desperate world. ennis will be able make her character a memorable character somewhere between clint eastwood (for the modern version cow boy) and travis from taxi driver (for disenchanted reflections on human nature). the punisher is also an exception as regards the cinema because it is its third incarnation on the screen. after dolph lungren, thomas jane, so it's ray stevenson (titus pulo in the masterpiece rome) that slips into the skin of the head judge of death. later interpretation nothing to say, stevenson is very similar to designs by tim bradstreet. the problem is still and always the narrative: we only retain the character that violence zapping completely what is the interest of this character: his reflections nihilists in voice, a certain sensitivity that occurs when you least expect it and its code of honor that reminds us that this killing machine can move us. the film shows us, again, a empty shell. at least the version of the 80 had the merit of showing us a man on the brink. voila, history without interest, yet another repetition of the rescue of the widow and the orphan, make the punisher 2009 movie as bad as wolverine. ahh, and then dominic west may very well be in the wire, but here it surjoue and "villains" of history have nearly the charisma of a mussel on a rock .... we feel that the production insisted on riding the wave with dark knight lone hero and villain psychotic. however at no time jigsaw manages to scare us and for good reason: without a script, without shading, unintelligent, the punisher does not end up punishing her fans more bitter to many poor and even ridiculous.