imagine the scene. the quartet's most upscale of the heavy time, comfortably installed in a room in a hotel hyatt. the tv stations are still in place, they go through the fourteenth floor window in a few minutes. peter grant, manager nawab, scratching his beard unkempt, and his remaining hair. he just had the idea of the century. filming led zeppelin in concert. his goose that lays the golden eggs. the greatest rock band, whose performances dante swept with a wave of gibson domination stones on stage. grant has a great dream and the money. a movie, true to the film. the 2oo1 rock. imagine the meetings with prospective developers, orders. what would make you guys happy? appear as in life, to show the fans what this one is really responsible for ourselves, finally, as you might say, what comes our inner world that's inside ... round table. robert plant, slumped on a sofa, a brunette and a redhead on her knees, which pipent word, would be at the edge of a creek, with his wife and children, zguègue air ... bucolic, green, nature what. accepted! jimmy page, the black mage, sends a packet of white. he fell in it recently, with richard cole, the medicine man of the airship. real life, not sure he remembers what it is. page is in its esoteric trip. the mysterious signs of led zep iv, zozo. it would be much meditating face the majestic elements of nature, serene, and then turned facing the camera, one of the most special effect would appear red eyes! wow ... too cool: agreed! and you, bonzo, who became the muscles helping his dad chopping wood, taking the ax to a hundred pounds a hand ... well, i love the campaign, i'm not a nerd, so i'd like ... (robert, pass me another bottle of vodka, this one is already empty, and also lend me your red if you've done) i'd like to walk in tractor ... rustic, populo: accepted! john paul, you say nothing? always discreet bassists. ben my profile rock star this is not my thing too, so i'd like enthusiasm that i filmed reading a story to my kids before bedtime, or make a mess with my girlfriend. i would be wearing as clement michu in thierry la fronde, a french series top too. uh ... jp, you're no longer, uh ... well if you insist. accepted! and peter grant? big boss man. well, there are two years, i saw the godfather coppola's movie theater in, i loved it. i see a good opening scene, where i submachine gun in a bunch of cockroaches who did not give a damn in this business, with heads that fall. not too violent? there's only to make a multicolored geyser of blood, it will be less gore, and that's aesthetics, genre, experimental research? accepted! especially since it was i who finances. and then do not forget the boeing staff (on commercial flights, the hostesses complain when they tumble) limousines, the arrival of the procession, and if we time between two interludes with zoom effects and solarization, disguise and obiwan kenobi lightsaber before the hour ride in percheron could probably be filming spirited playing of music at madison square garden? well gentlemen, the floor of the hotel is booked, you can ride your bike, and what you will find others. have fun, but not too much noise. bonzo, no battery after 3 hours of the morning, okay? it begins production. computation. but that's how i see the brainstorming the song remains the same, the biggest turnip in the postwar cinema, which has yet stand as the best performers of the best music ever. install twelve cameras here and there, roaming cameramen on stage (where there is already a crazy world, while the four musicians occupy just 10 square meters) that was probably too simple, too common, too much like another. capturing the energy of a concert by led zep was not easy. but over time, it might be possible. but it had to be stronger than anything, and outcome, the palm of absurdity has been reached, and will remain in our memories. who saw this movie once remembered forever! they say more (i do not fl