at its release in 1979, this book does not meet the hearing had been able to raise his previous books, including fantasy landscape, crowned by the prix medicis in 1973. however, the bill of this novel is much more classic. tony duvert away seemingly bold experiments and tells a story, a fairly linear sum. the island as a symbol: it is a microcosm, a world in isolation, with its leaders, its intellectuals, its grocers, its proles, the prostitute, and especially the offspring of that company. duvert proceed in the manner of dos passos, moving from one character to another, regularly changing point of view. he traveled back and forth between the world of children and adult, fully demonstrating how they are sealed to each other. sex is an important component of both worlds, often joyous, often marked with the seal predation. each sketch gives the author an opportunity to exercise his talents to great satirist, who blew the poor, perversion or the brutality with an economy of words absolutely amazing. the dialogues are particularly fascinating: their emptiness reminds nathalie sarraute and robert pinget, but that would be converted to the novel (pseudo) realism. there is no trace of fat in this book cut with a scalpel in which each word is placed within a millimeter. but as an artist duvert is dazzling, it may well devour the book like a thriller without stop worrying about the perfect form that underlies it. almost all the friends that i have read were in first devoured, before eventually returning to the story, characters (ah seignelet madam's mother most terrible of french literature "), the satire, art, etc.. the atlantic island is a masterpiece artworks, a "poem" under gogol's dead souls, a synthesis between realism and new novel, a book at once readable and d an infinite wealth. it is high time that we finally recognize one of the french writers most important twentieth century, fell in purgatory (at least) in the 1980s because of its position on relations between adults and minors. in his defense, we could add that tony duvert is neither gabriel nor roger peyrefitte matzneff: not a hunter called upon to justify themselves, and who invents reasons hypocrites. this is not a poet of childhood or adolescence, which continues to the contrary pettiness and dishonesty. young people are at home to become adults, already rotten one form or another of social adequacy. and chasing him with a moralism which may seem paradoxical