this album bears comparison with the previous "viva la vida or death and all his friends" (already a sum of "b-sides", in my opinion), which can not be dissociated. those 2 albums are made of the same "base material". probably recorded at the same time or almost (i admit my ignorance on this point since i read any newspaper article about it). 8 tracks in total, including 2 ( "lost" and "lovers in japan") are re-balanced shamelessly almost identically from the album "viva la vida ..." to it. personally, i find the version sung "life in technicolor", better than the original version that was instrumental (intro it was a nice concert, but hey ... nothing more). she has gained a little extra soul. - "postcards from far away" is a pretty little melody on the piano (really) ... but 48 seconds! - "glass of water" is not bad . the chorus in particular is very catchy and gives off a certain energy that i appreciate. - "rainy day": same point as the previous title, much of the emotion is in the chorus and the final minute. - 'prospekt's march / poppyfields "what a beautiful piece of music, simple, unvarnished, gentle and subtle, which leaves me thinking that i still throw an ear on the next coldplay album. at last," now my feet will not touch the ground "is nice, cute without reaching the summit, but it is very short. but i saved the best for last, the title alone justifies that i file a comment:" lost + " this song is so ridiculous that she has fortifying virtues. i advise all those who have the blues; giggles guaranteed! i can well imagine the scene: - "uh, jay-z, there's a group that wants you to add a track on their way. -- ok, but then i am the toilet ... "that falls well j'te passes the microphone." listen to this result completely indigestible to store in the selection of the finest plouf year. the rapper (jay-z) has become embedded at a time, like a tuft of hair on the soup. the musical universe of jay-z and coldplay are as distant as the geographical locations where they have respectively to catch her. as for mixing, it is worthy of a quick hack to intern with a free software! abo-pathetic. "who loves well, chastises well": i do not agree at all with this adage, but for once i apply it. i love this group since its beginnings but i think there is here a lack of professionalism and respect for the public, and money, i have never met this level (or is it a joke .. .?).