no great scientific knowledge in agriculture and chemistry, i was looking for a book that aims to take stock of pesticides and environmental problems they pose, both quantitatively and qualitatively. this book of f. and f. nicolino veillerette me enormously disappointed, both in substance and form. i personally find reading indigestible because of your bitter and vengeful that peppering every page (a bit like michel onfray in his treatise atheology, but less talented here). the form would be bearable if the bottom was solid, but some conclusions are hasty and not very documented, other findings seem particularly false. sometimes, the authors of digressions that can hardly be related to the heart of the debate: what comes to statistics on smoking in english a book on the use of pesticides and its consequences in france? what comes to victor hugo in the debate on pesticides? the authors quote a short extract (2 stanzas) of long (18 verses) hymn to the earth by victor hugo and select the passage that speaks of "wounded land", a "field disgraced" wasted "by wicked. hugo talks about war, and the authors use it in their remarks about modern agriculture, i find this limit. why mention the gas chambers and the holocaust, if this is also an attempt to recover the horror attached to it? what i take from this book is that, as the authors say in the introduction, the consequences of the use of chemical pesticides in agriculture on human health are very difficult to establish, let alone quantify (this book did not help that matter) and the chemical industry profits. besides this, the book tries to make us understand the workings of political decisions and to denounce corruption that prevails there. i confess that i did not really understand who was responsible for what in all this junk (much less who is "guilty"!). i suspect that large interests are at stake, that the consequences of risky decisions are taken, there is certainly corruption at one time or another ... but i would have liked to read a specific investigation, reports and detailed especially understandable rather than painful litany of accusations.