460 bc, somewhere in greece: "gentlemen, i decided to visit all of the known world, and even go see beyond. i will travel to persia, go see the scythians, i will visit the egyptian temples closed to foreigners and i initiated into cults of old. "that is the ambition of herodotus. in so doing, he always keeps a certain critical distance, trusting their good sense to sort the legends of facts: "i laugh to see so many people give us" world maps "that never contain any reasonable explanation: we shows us the ocean stream that encircles a land perfectly round, as shapely, and it gives the same dimensions to asia and europe! "what was said about the gods, i do not intend to report, except the names given them: for on this topic, i think men do not know more than one than others. "note also that about the gods, herodotus ever reconciliations between gods of different cultures, not hesitating to acknowledge the greek gods must come from those of egypt. in books i-iv, herodotus takes over as conductor of the early clashes between greeks and persians in telling the history, customs and geography of the ancient world, beginning with the reign of croesus, then those of cyrus, cambyses and darius. it the opportunity to discover a lot of peoples customs amazing. take the example of the babylonians, to whom we must include the invention of reverse auctions to marry the ugliest girl ( "the sale of the prettiest girls completed, remove the crier was the ugliest and offered that wanted to marry at the lowest price for the last award to the buyer the least demanding. "), or medicine show:" they bring their patients into the public because they have no doctors . people approach the sick and those who have suffered similar harm or seen someone suffer, offer their advice. it is forbidden to go near a patient without speaking to him and continue his journey after having inquired about his illness. but all people are not like the babylonians. let the "dacians immortal ': every 5 years, they drew lots for one of them to be their messenger to salmoxis and entrust all their requests. here's how they ship: one aligned armed with 3 javelins, others take the hands and feet the messenger and the launch into the air to make it fall on the tips of spears. if man deeply embroiled and dies, they say, that their god is favorable and if the messenger does not die, they attack it, deal with the bad man and expedient another in his place. "beyond the customs, we learn feats titanic. thus, the first circumnavigation of africa (25 000 km, just like that) circa 600 bc: "libya [name given by greeks to africa] is, we know, entirely surrounded by the sea, except from side where it affects asia and the king of egypt nécôs are the first to our knowledge given the evidence: when he had finished digging the canal that goes from the nile to the arabian gulf, he sent the vessels manned by phoenicians, with orders to return to egypt through the pillars of hercules and the northern sea. leaving the sea eritrea phoenicians traveled the southern sea: in autumn they landed on the coast of libya, to where they had conducted their navigation, and sowed the ground waiting for the harvest, the harvest done, they resumed the wed two years went by, the third year, they doubled the pillars of hercules and regained egypt. they reported a fact that i find incredible, if others add both: bypassing libya, they said, they had the sun on their right. in short, an excellent history book. i ordered the following volume (books v to ix), which normally handles the median wars. (see discussion 1 of this review for the review of volume 2 of the survey - amazon to prevent two different comments for both books)