beigbeder is cloaked in mystery. he poses with dark air, wrapped in a black cape, so zozo (comment on background music: "zorro arrived" by henri salvador). and yet, the only mystery reserved for fools, is that the "miraculous" success without talent. advertising has shown that talent was not a necessary condition for success. a noodle dish is a success if well publicized. the motocrottes did much for the popularity of the mayor of paris, jacques c. "a french novel" is a tasteless dish consisting of ingredients with no relief, nor that awakens the appetite, and spirit. you can imagine ? in terms of sex education, this autobiography tells us the first stirrings to 13 years in which the author embraces the mouth with its tongue out. the literary tastes are presented like a firework internet . you have not read anything of what you speak. no serious credit jumble of names of writers sounding alien, anglo-saxon. a pause. it is this very zozo! beigbeder, in line with the program "literary" it was "busy" we learned that san antonio (sic) is an author on the right, like rabelais (!). rabelais, a writer right! the delusion, ignorance and lack of support syntax painfully demonstrate: beigbeder appreciated those writers right because they are funny (i quote) while the perpetrators left, sartre, camus did are not ... with the exception says there "words" and "downfall." these books are so "funny". what celine, "right-wing writer" may be funny? disorders (mental). this drug addict, cocaine addict, spat on justice, public health measures taken to save him from himself. zozo was paf. zozo was sick. zozo was offense. ah, those 17 hours of release "in prison" (the police station only) worth the years of solzhenitsyn's gulag, those of the extermination camp of primo levi, those of those of dostoevsky and verlaine. zozo would have us believe. great chills when he recounts his trip to the elysee palace during the presentation of the legion of honor to his brother, charles, by sarko. the niece said she was "popo" and revolted him, mark an "a" on the steamy window ... for alcoholic asshole? zozo says that his mother was his cuckolded father, who was unfaithful with a friend this year, baron says he. zozo the aristocracy by the left hand? he reveals that his argument is that a father who committed adultery with a man is less serious than that committed by a woman is a "wmd" (argument of shit). zozo thank you. bobo, commiserating over his niggling injuries, irresponsible, autistic class friquée sick, flat, speaking in a desert of literary style, threading hollow words, discoverer of the roundness of the circle and square the square beigbeder, however, managed a great feat. which? he manages to pay its doctors (readers) its first meeting of psychoanalysis. some suggested titles for the next bunch of leaves: "zozo country lotus", "the hand left and the aristocracy, "" white powder and the dwarf, "" the emptiness of emptiness or me. "