this new version of an album by genesis as unanimity was highly anticipated ... the result is very exciting and this for several reasons ... first, remixing all the bands, some details are come to light (who had noticed a small xylophone in "entangled" and heard many acoustic guitars) in addition, the voice of any juvenile phil collins is best put forward and is very effective on the toughest tracks (hollowing on "squonk" and "dance on a avolcano") while on the previous editions, it looked fine on the ballads, but perhaps less well on this type of song ... in fact, collins is the winner of this edition: not only his voice is enhanced but his drumming searched appears much better (the power of "squonk" and his playing very voluble on "robbery, assault and battery" and "los endos") guitars of steve hackett s 'come out much better as well (his solo softly and cons point on "ripples") and can finally enjoy his duel with tony banks at the end of "dance on a volcano" (it was inaudible over previous versions. ..) in short, the result is superb both in stereo 5.1! so, why only put 4 stars? simply to some bias when walking away remix original mix: the vocals of the small end title "a trick of the tail" have been lost in the remix, the single passage on "los endos" is pressed in stereo and the majesty of mellotron on the final part of "entangled" is too attenuated (especially in stereo) the dvd extras are interesting (do not forget to mention you have a cd / sacd remix and a dvd in the drive): new interviews with the 4 musicians from highlighting the unanimous understanding of this group time (this was the first album released after the departure of the charismatic peter gabriel ...), some nice clips and the entire film "genesis in concert" with the tour group in with distinguished guest bill bruford ... moreover, one regret is not having all of these shows yet filmed and kept forever in a loft by producer tony maylam ... this album is a pinnacle of genesis (this remains my favorite ...) even in this new version ... music is a wonderful intensity and the theatrical side having dissipated with the departure of gabriel (despite an unconvincing attempt by collins on "robbery, assault and battery ", probably written before the sessions of this album and the title is oddly the weakest ...), you can finally enjoy the magic of compositions and their complexity (the wonderful" mad man moon " sometimes as close to a classical music), enjoy the beauty so evident in "ripples" or the simple melody of the song title. indispensable but then remember to still keep the original mix!