this result in 3 episodes is not as good as the first series for several reasons .... certainly, the use of high definition and improved special effects (sand worms are great!) is to make the assets of that series but for the rest, we are short of what one could hope for! less space in the staging and framing of scenes on location (it is featured in a tv movie when the first series we gave the impression very strong and very relevant to be on a stage), less innovation and symbolism in the lights, less imaginative costumes, less lyricism, scenes of "vision" botched too much action without the slightest effort to introduce tension or suspense, no opportunity to focus on the characters ... the script runs the main péripérities of 2 novels "the messiah ..." and "children ..." accelerated ... it zaps a digest (respectful of course) of the work of herbert's all. the replacement of some of the players, whatever the reasons is because of confusion or annoyance. the performance of acting newcomers are rather dull to the point that susan sarandon seems to do too much. for a sensible story unfold over several decades, the apparent age of the characters do not really respect the relationship between generations, even if we can put that on account of anti-aging properties of the spice, it's annoying ... the prejudice, however realistic and understandable, of old leto and ghanima reinforces this impression. the transformation of paul in paul teen adult in the first round was more successful. the alia adult is less fascinating than the alia child. etc. .. the music, meanwhile, is also less successful than in the first round. not enough "péplumesque" for my taste when it comes to illustrating the pump of the empire and not intimate enough when he should .... not to mention the annoyance of hearing a song transferred on "gladiator" at the end of the second episode ... of course, in terms of plot, the series could not do better than the novels, which themselves same on an otherwise uniform cavens politics, religion and family conflict are below the volume 1. the element of fantasy and dramatic book 3 (the golden path, the decision and the transformation of leto 2) is treated as best as possible but it really was "dicey" and the result is rather frustrating. on dvd as this is very disappointing bonuses are shabby and there are no subtitles in english. i really do not know whether to recommend this dvd ... obviously you should read the books first and foremost ... as one would say, a book is better than a dvd because there is no image ...