we can not say enough, but somehow the history of punk is not whether the stooges and the mc5 had not existed. indeed, who better than these groups enthusiasm subversive able to transform the spirit of revolt in the early seventies into a holy rage, implacable and brutal? the new york dolls? possible. the velvet underground? probable. but at a lower level. because when we talk about the main influences of the ramones, they are instantly the band iggy as the motor city five necessary. and if, in the course, new yorkers appeared to have fully digested this relationship on their first album, with this second volume that this relationship is affirmed. again, treatment is radical. still as irreverent, pushing into a corner a rock began seriously to be too good in the mirror, leave home lava as punk as its predecessor and return to their studies many progressive death me yes. maybe a little more melodic, more pop, boasting better production, leave home has long been considered an outsider in the first three albums. yet, while there is this huge gap in youth. the aggressiveness, sincerity, excitement. even this idiot pseudo color thrown as food to the criticism. so far from being a true copy of the ufo of 76 that could be taxed raw materials, this disc has a real personality. thus, in a few well chosen tracks, mixing provocation (glad to see you go) glance at the past (california sun) or incitement to debauchery (carbona not glue) if the selected components are fly, the ramones never forget not necessarily their natural instinct in the second degree. in fact, taking up where left off ramones, leave home propels us back into a medium hot delusional. an area where, rubbish and idealism converge on rhythmic openly exceeding the speed limit. again very far from the concerns that will shake the english punk, the ramones, however, give some substance to move ahead. in this regard, if the irresistible "gimme gimme shock treatment, whose therapeutic action is further proof, comes naturally as the perfect manifestation of a u.s. punk rock without complex: funny, satirical and fed amphetamines. others, such, swallow my pride, commando, pinhead and his refrain borrowed from the banquet scene of the movie freaks, agitators are remarkably dedicated to the cause. in the end, much more varied than one might think, from pop singer to improvise a few sweets inclinations sixties, leave home is a sacred album. gabba gabba hey! the title "carbona not glue" (which advocates sniff glue) was removed from the album following a dispute with the company carbona (manufacturer of solvents) and replaced on the following by pressing "babysitter "