what happens there after the previous season? leo became a founder and seems to abandon his family. and what this new character chris (drew fuller, credited in the credits) seems to be the reason and hiding a secret. in fact, chris is the thread of this season. indeed, several questions arise: is it really? what is the purpose of his presence? and we will answer all outstanding data in a subtly conducted, responses, and leo search cost as cost, which leads to stay well this time it seemed to disappear from the lives of three witches. the unexpected presence will be a real nightmare for piper who does not know what to expect. this couple is torn, just as the mystery surrounding chris, the thread of the season. the wrath of piper are frequent quarrels and tears as each legion. this 6th year also saw the strengthening of the universe of charmed with numerous mythological references, historical or popular as the intervention of the valkyries in the first double episode cult of genius, the lady of the lake or the sword excalibur, and the denunciation of the real tv in an episode of surprising realism. on the other hand, love remains the focus of debate because addition to the unfavorable state through leo and piper, paige will meet richard (balthazar getty, present in alias), and phoebe continue his relationship with jason dean (eric dane). moreover, the side of magic, phoebe gets a new power with the empathy that allows him to feel the emotions of others. but it is undoubtedly the discovery of a magic school run by the founder gideon (gildart jackson) who is one of the important contributions the pus in the series. and of course the fight against evil continues, and when they are not demons or witches as barbas which assigns the 3 three sisters halliwell before a tribunal, which will remove all the powers of phoebe for use of magic for personal is the arrival of the inspector sheridan (jenya lano), ready to do anything to unmask the witches who give a hard time in the past and darryl, who can not remember how many times the power of 3 helped and saved. finally, the final season is excellent with a perfect clash between good and evil, both coveting wyatt, whose fate will depend of the identity of the winner, and a happy event in the halliwell clan in response to the mysterious identity of chris ... a surprising season 6 in a text box decorated again a booklet summarizing the events and indicating the dates of the first broadcasts of every american.