hygiene de l'assassin, the first novel by amelie nothomb, his release was an event both critical and commercial. the young novelist depicts, in this first book, a great writer, pretextatus tach, crowned with the nobel prize. he still has two months to live. four journalists flocked to his bedside to prepare an interview, but the first three are turned away abruptly, and mortified by the writer: it is indeed evidence of actual malice had equaled his mastery of words. face to steamroller his logorrhea, the pitiful and abused journalists are not only unable to learn anything about it, but also to protect against its intrusion into them ... only the fourth journalist, nina, will disgorge to the writer by unmasking behind the contemptuous speech, the reason that makes this man of literature that monster and this monster short, since a word, huge and obese, he looks like an ogre. yet the essence of the ogre is, as everyone knows, to devour its children. here, our nobel prize is a variation of this myth of the ogre. but attacking him none the less formidable. it therefore welcomes the transposition which amuses amelie nothomb, making journalists from questioning tach kinds of children who will be devoured: the words of the ogre will penetrate them and make them fail as they had been forced to swallow (see this much-revealing sequence in which task takes pleasure in revealing the hacks to the diet, the latter ending in vomiting). but this short-circuited with nina: why? because she has read tach. it also seems only to have made the effort, effort that will bring understanding of the psyche of his opponent by reading the writings of a man, it has the words component and learns his true nature. in fact, nina is in a dominant position as the novelist does not know who he is dealing, treating everyone equally and with nina, he thinks he has to make the poor even journalists, but here it know that nina has incorporated its meaning: therefore, the language of tach can enjoy; jacques lacan said, the problems of men is that they are all designed identically: coitus is their way of sexual functioning - for women, while remaining vague and mysterious - in fact, tach nina tries to enter by his tongue as he entered the journalists, but nina escapes and simply enjoys the conversation, which seems incapable tach. very quickly, the question of the realization of nina will become exclusive and in turn cannibal: the least we can say is amelie nothomb is no gift to women: his heroine realizes she does not syndrome swallowing the phallus? however, the short game genius of nina, nothomb is lost: as she indulged in verbal sparring matches between famous tach and journalists, as it is too fast down the arms to the writer . indeed, journalists, as we noted, all worked from tapes recorded by the colleague before: indeed, they were all poor, it was clear they were progressively assurance and strength. but nina arrives and suddenly, it regulates all: while it would probably not successful without its predecessors, but still, the situation is reversed too quickly. therefore, tach is a ridiculous character: one by one, his defenses drop. nothing would restore its grandeur. it was hoped that nothomb tries to aesthetic contempt as part of his book turned out delicious at this level, but tired, she's had enough and too fast. if she kit out their dialogues, her face to face lack of challenge as too fast, you understand that tach lost. nevertheless, emotion is often there, especially in the descriptions of macabre secret spots which are chilling, with an economy of words and ways. this does not however make this book what it could be (indeed, it looks more like a play in its form, since there is virtually no description, and 99% of dialogues ). took