thanks to jacques rivette, whose film do not touch the ax came out this year that i finally launched in reading this wonderful novel, one of the summits of the human comedy to the plot for style and thought. very good movie (jeanne balibar, beautiful, gives life to the character of antoinette de langeais, though it is brown while balzac imagined blonde), a film that knows impose our memories the incurable vision of "two lovers alone together the middle of the sea on a granite bench, but separated by an idea. "the duchess of langeais originally styled himself (for publication review of its first two chapters)," do not touch the ax ". here is a novel that shows that marriage is "a flawed institution tempered by love, which is possible only outside of it ... the duchess is called" woman as cold and sharp as steel " while her suitor, general armand de montriveau, is "a tiger on its prey," fresh out of the desert where he had wandered long, a man "whom he was indifferent to give a stab to buy the silence" and "who had always been novels instead of writing". in the end, it is antoinette who "behind the oasis in the desert in pursuit of this man who is" a guide without pity. "balzac wanted to prove to his contemporaries" the formulas of algebra women . the frail antoinette de langeais gives chills and likes to "dance on the edge of the abyss", before being rushed, driven by the appetites of its secret inner being. "few women dare to be democrats, then they are too inconsistent with their despotism makes feelings. certainly there are passages in gibberish. we recall maybe, according to claude roy, "the gibberish in the form in balzac is invariably the sign of the absurd in the background" (suns of romanticism, 1974). but most often when the phrase twists, bends, grow fat, splits or vaporizes, it is a sign that the writer wishes to express his thoughts of strength, because he knows the first to understand some profound changes that society work. the ax, the obsessive motif that haunts this opera-novel, is also a metaphor for the writing of balzac when it is sociology. "religion is inextricably linked to the property. it is best to lead the people by moral ideas as scaffolds, as during the terror, only means that your hateful revolution has invented to be obeyed. "the political protestantism is victorious spirits. and this against the restoration of the monarchy: "these days, the means of action must be real forces, not historical memories. "one of the most beautiful moments is perhaps the speech is to antoinette de langeais his tutor the princess of blamont-chauvry in the penultimate chapter," the philosophers, these nobodies that we put in our shows, had the impropriety and ingratitude, as the price of our kindness, to take stock of our hearts, we decry mass in detail, and rail against the century. [...] without a lot of poétriaux of rhymers, moralists who kept our maids and wrote the calumnies, our time would have been a literary manners. [...] you're two centuries back with your false grandeur. "can not forget those" without agitation movement felt in the nightmare, "after which it becomes possible for us to enjoy" absolute silence which can perceive the sound to great distances. " we experience the "convulsive rapidity" of a departure, the "electric shock" that communicates a look up live passionately erasure of the duchess, sublime moment: "she cried when she reached the boulevard d'enfer. there, for the last time she looked at paris smoky, noisy, covered with the red atmosphere generated by the lights "... who said that balzac wrote badly?" it was a woman, now this is nothing. attach a ball to each of his feet and throw it into the sea, and not think about that as we think of a book read during our childhood. and after that: "sleep, if