everyone knows spawn? still emerging a few years ago, it has invaded our screens, bookshelves, etc.. but who knows well spawn? formerly special force, fell into a trap set by jason wynn, al simmons died, leaving behind his wife and daughter, and his old pal combat. not so simple as wishing at all costs to return among the living for wanda, his wife, he is bamboozled by malbolge - the devil (or rather one of its representatives), who returns to earth, according to his complaint. lack of bowl, not under his normal human form or that the returns in his household gods, but rather as a scion of hell with super powers (that he will master initially not at all ), a wrapper "living" type symbiont, and a mug of chopped steak, which annihilate all his chances of representing to his beloved (who meanwhile began with terry, the faithful friend, nice guy, who was also working for wynn). father simmons, now officially spawn wanders first to try to regain his old mark, and then finally land among the homeless in the dark alleys of the slums, where he established his headquarters. there is a "family", the other sdf that any jaded, do not ask where tumbling this costume to look evil, but at heart a noble and just, though often torn between rage against jason wynn ( it aims to atomize course for revenge) and love for his neighbor (compliance would be more accurate, because his demonstrations of love is special ...!). the 1st volumes of the series set the scene with the inspectors sam &amp; twitch (who will then have them - excellent - series dedicated), who fight against crime, finally on the same side as spawn. but as cagliostro, an alter ego of spawn, much older, which will guide slowly on the path of the experience of struggle, redemption, etc.. we can not forget the demonic clown eating maggots and souls competitor spawn ousted by malebolgia to lead the armies of hell against the world, which serves both as a "guide" from hell mentor involuntary persecutor of infinite ... a real moth, this one! and above all this will happen in the life of spawn a host of characters from the earth, sky, other plans, hell, paradise, etc ... once spawn has enriched some experience, knows what his purpose on earth, what powers, duties, obligations and freedoms, his friends and enemies, objectives, he begins to find (volumes 1 / 2 / 3). then the saga branches and between the introspective, with many existential questions raised by spawn, which we often refer to our own thinking. attention i do not say that spawn is a philosophical work, but the imprint of some writers like alan moore ( volume 4) series on the student openly debate compared to the old spiderman vs hulk! and throughout volumes 3 / 4 / 5 / 6 will continue that quest well, fighting his doom just as hellboy (who must conduct forces of evil against the world too, but do not want), which he often overflow from the other side (dark), travel the country, destroy the serial killer, will fight against the angels, and especially the heart of his clan - the homeless - will find a respected place. a plethora of super villains will come to provoke, which he will deliver cons of epic battles. each volume of spawn is a big pad that you monopolize quelues hours of fascinating reading, deep, obviously supported by a drawing of a rare quality, crème de la crème of u.s. comics. todd mc farlane is a master in graphic design, his characters are very sophisticated, elaborate and dense. spawn is one of the major works of the 2000s, without doubt, all volumes worth reading (of anyway they will follow!), the comics out of its box for raising normally much higher.