barjavel is one of the french authors of science fiction's most popular, so i said i did not take too many risks by reading "the night of time." the book is an illusion over fifty pages and then some little reading became increasingly tedious to become downright unbearable. the idea of night time is not bad, it does not new either. barjavel sauce turns the myth of the lost civilization, a subject i always found fascinating as it may be dreaming when treated well. this is unfortunately not the case here, the first pages intrigues you really want to move forward and discover what lies beneath the ice, barjavel temporizes intelligently treating his story like a documentary detailing the scientific operation in every detail. then when the secret is revealed everything collapses. we plunge into a world with borders of science fiction and heroic fantasy where everything goes too fast, where the characters have no interest other than their incredible beauty where all the secrets of the universe seem to find answers to a speed that leaves us with no taste. do not bother to think that everything is at least narrate with elegance, feather barjavel is poor, tasteless and sometimes even just laughable. special mention to the pseudo-erotic descriptions metaphorical stultifying and overrated. the night time is above all a great love story romeo and juliet, or so the author would have us believe, but as i said earlier, the characters are empty as can be, too superficial and stereotypical for that to be truly touched by their story. only the conclusion is that reckoning intelligently to romeo and juliet makes this love story a little less anecdotal. finally account the night time is too silly, too naive and too simplistic to be convincing. even the critics and the universal message of peace we are served with so little subtlety that can not possibly be convinced by the vision very basic barjavel. the night time is a work overestimated worship, having no quality literary or narrative to justify when reading.