i put two stars with indulgence, and i wonder pkoi. i write these lines while i watch the film at the same time, being broadcast on a channel that thinks probably have the best idea of the evening. and as i suspected, this might be the burton is not terrible. i was sad to say, but i might be a little too extreme. firstly, not heston, mc dowall, whitmore or hunter who wants to. nothing to see. the text is quite naze ( "i was doing hair" says one of femlles, purely human expression, and hair in a monkey pkoi not?) a scenario that can be sensed without the need to be a medium with humans who speak and since "x" times are not even able to develop an effective resistance against monkeys smart but very divided, while the version schaffner is full of surprises. it is much smarter with its dumb human and more credible. a fantastic atmosphere in version 68 which is more in it. a law that says "an ape must not kill another monkey" and "holy rollers" completely overshadowed here (or almost, we talk just a little bit of "sacred texts"), and makeup so realistic that the monkeys burton are far too human in comparison with those of schaffner whose makeup is unparalleled. if this is about the gorillas are not too bad, the other monkeys more like humans malformed. not to mention the fact that here they move like humans, in 68 they had a genuine look of monkeys in their movements and travel. as for the blonde who accompanies wahlberg, it is not linda harrison compartment. in short, i do not yet know the end of burton's version, because i followed my instinct to not go see the movie theater, but no doubt possible: it would certainly not hold a candle to this cult, and unparalleled ingala the legendary "planet of the apes" from 1968. a re-make of "the world ...", it's like trying to remake" the ten commandments "" ben-hur, quo vadis, "gone with the wind," "singin 'in the rain" or "a tramaway named desire". sacrilegious film and art. we might imagine a copy of "la gioconda" in another presentation? when you want to reach perfection ...