ouiouioui i know what you'll say, "crew you are a little scamp, you have been banned on the internet to gain knowledge of an album that you can not wait to see out" .. . and, yes, i confess, i almost beat him a guilt if i were not already certain to run out and buy gallop on the day of its release. because it is good? no, the question is not even there it is good or bad, i will buy it because even if, like many, i confess that after i have a tendency to confuse all the albums and n ' retain none in particular. no, i will buy it because it's pearl jam, because almost 20 years later i've still not recovered from 10, because these guys always give legendary concerts that i do not miss for anything, because i largely already stuffed the recording industry by acquiring limited editions, vinyl and other boxes 3cds sold separately, so why not continue? :) of course, if the first listen i had noticed they were wallowing in, maybe i should not have loosened purse, but it is far and this is another stone added to the work, which begins to be impressive, the group that backspace is made. one finds all the passion and rage that they know from the first track "gonna see my friend", otherwise mark, the right into the wildesque "just breathe" while rope where the inimitable voice of vedder can only heris your hair and you paste a small tear in the corner of his eye. ahhhh that voice is enough to say she still wonders on "amongst the waves" and his solo dante, there is doubt over the general permit is pearl jam, sensitive, epic, warm. .. oh yes, grunge is over (there's piano, random, "unthought known"), yes, i agree now it's pearl jam of adult rock, but let's be honest, there they had to produce so beautiful. as for words, once again treats us vedder text very personal, sensitive and far from the image of lumberjack shirts, big hair and dégueux docs, and yet, how not to dream to fly again this required proud grunger on supersonic (nothing to do with the group's favorite song with carlos (rip)) and soundgardesque bridge just before the chorus sallied ramonesque (recall that the group (pj) has always cited as a major influence. if "force of nature "is perhaps a hair below is a beautiful and aptly named" the end "(nothing to do with the band manzarek) that closes this album that marks, for its cohesion, its quality, urgency (the album is short), the resurgence of pearl jam, as long as you condid they were one days left ... avz if you read this column so far, i think it is useless i praised gossard, mc cready, ament and cameron defector, you know what it is! with that, i am very impatient to go buy it honestly to discover the book, text and the mystery guest on "speed of sound".