is there a writer who knew better than balzac, the arcana women's heart?
a reading of the seven new editions folio classique had the happy idea of collecting this precious volume, it is simply doubtful.
if the style of balzac places may seem somewhat antiquated and outdated - the women are "angels", "sublime" in event of pain - how and what subtle penetration, the great novelist he translates the movements the deepest of their souls, like a photograph collection in an album with sumptuous portraits of society women he successfully enter the inner most secret under the noble finery dresses that draped in the dignity of their ice time.
in "study of women" - wonderful little gem of concision and cruelty-the virtuous madame de listomere receives a letter from inflamed eugene eugene.
fatal mistake: the letter was intended for another woman.
by the time the truth will be recovered enough for the noble person makes some ideas: "a man of wit, stendhal, had the bizarre idea of appointing crystallization work that the thought of the lady made before, during and after this evening. " playing a virtuoso on strings from the implicit, the writer suggests that the troubles agitating in the deep waters calm, apparently, this woman's heart, whose signs issued without his knowledge by the body - red, pale lips , impatience - betray the violent emotions experienced.
it is never very far from "the princess of cleves, whom balzac continues, in its way, the great literary tradition of the novel analysis.
the drive to seize, buried beneath the trappings impeccacles all these women, dizziness disorders most shameful.
flowers of vice or virtue mowed by the temptation of love, overshadowed in a society of hypocrisy where rigid codes of conduct require that each art of the feint and each a certain skill to identify the element of truth in appear.
if in "another study of women," de marsay unmasks without penalty, under the lies and deceit, irrefutable proof of the treachery of his mistress, with what immense talent as an actress, princess of cadignan, woman notorious for its collection of 'lovers succeed she be justified in the eyes of the man of genius who falls for her.
about this news, "is the greatest moral comedy that exists," balzac wrote to madame hanska; is the "heap of lies" by which the princess "manages to make a saint, a virtuous, a shy girl, "is finally the last degree of depravity in the feelings".
do not believe, however, a misogyny of balzac.
that need, however, to have deeply loved and listened to understand the untenable position that the fatal institution of marriage doomed women of her time.
the tragic fates of "the abandoned woman" - beautiful love story - and the young dying of "the grenadiere, ostracized by society for having sinned, emblématisent a social evil more terrible and unjust that these women reveal treasures of virtue.
among these portraits, one notable exception: the fate of madame firmiani happy, which forced her lover to ruin themselves to appear to him a man of honor.
love is a feeling here that should suffer no compromise and to drink only sources of good.
