berlin, april 1945.
the total collapse of the third reich is no longer a matter of days.
soviet troops are approaching and the fighting raging in the streets of the capital of the reich.
hitler, with his closest supporters, will land in his bunker.
beside him, his secretary traudl junge, refuses to abandon.
all news announce final debacle, but the dictator wants to continue to believe in victory and refuses any notion of surrender, while all of his generals to rebel refusing the unnecessary sacrifice of thousands of lives and trying to save what can still be.
gradually hitler loses all sense of reality and move on map units ghosts, while suicides and desertions succeed.
a inside the bunker, the führer's entourage awaits the end, which comes with the suicide of eva braun and hitler, who abandons his people and chaos.
inspired by joachim fest's book "the last days of hitler" ( those that this period of history interests will also read "the fall of berlin by anthony beevor) and memoirs of traudl junge, the secretary of the dictator, the greater part of the movie is seen through the eyes of the latter a young woman naive and idealistic, which could symbolize germany as a whole, misled by the charisma of the führer.
bruno ganz renders very well the duality of hitler, sometimes harsh taskmaster, sometimes paternalistic character for his family.
juliane köhler as eva braun, vase whored worldly dictator, heino ferch as albert speer, the architect's favorite megalomaniac führer, or ulrich nöthen by heinrich himmler, supreme commander of the ss, are also remarkable resemblance to the historical characters they embody.
ulrich matthes, in the role of josef goebbels is less successful on the resemblance to hitler's heir apparent, but nevertheless makes an extraordinary character dripping with cynicism and fanaticism, which does not hesitate, together with his wife to kill their six children, the future world is not deemed worthy of them.
filmmaker remarkably documented takes time to show us the characters of various characters, resigned or not lucid or mad to link up to extremists or opportunists, cowards or heroes, without remorse or rather realizing the folly of their actions.
the oppressive atmosphere the end of the world is very well restored, beautifully rendered scenery of a dark aesthetic and music by apocalypse particularly careful.
this film has generated many controversies displaced, including the concealment of nazi crimes, which is irrelevant. "the fall" portrays a brief period in a certain context and at a time, not a chronicle of the second world war.
if we follow this logic, we might as well criticize "saving private ryan" for not showing hiroshima!
another controversy involves too much "humanization" of hitler.
the historian marc ferro in particular, sees malicious purposes, this too great humanity of the dictator, through scenes of everyday life where we see feel affection for his german shepherd, in love with his future wife eva braun, etc..
we therefore gave way to feel compassion for him, or even sympathy.
the director oliver hirschbiegel not looking at no time hitler caricature, but only to describe what he was, in a strict view of historical reality.
do not recognize him as human, does not deny that each of us has a lot of capacity for harm?
finally, after all, though some viewers have been able to judge a sympathetic half-mad tyrant who throughout the film tirelessly to execute everything that moves, that is most disturbed by the director or spectator?
in conclusion, hirschbiegel is the first german to dare to tackle with such a desire for realism in a genuine national taboo that persists until today, due to collective self-flagellation to perpetuate
