delpy knows the united states where she lives, albeit with interruptions, but from his studies (which should make early twenties).
it is therefore very well placed to make a film about a gringo discovering the french.
it is well led, well seen and funny during the first half of the film.
unfortunately the film then becomes confused and loses its substance and thus its interest.
indeed, the personality of this young woman (albeit a very good actress) is sparse and it is unfortunate that it permeates the entire film: delpy has made the film, was mounted, was part of music and there is play his parents.
although nothing is known of his private life and what she really put her experiences in the film, she shows too much is not known separate delpy's character marion.
the only interest of this film is that expatriate sees france and the director should have been limited to this aspect, especially since his actor adam goldberg, is credible (without, however, used the television series that have indicated its face, he tries to escape by playing a character sub-woody allen which was the charity to believe).
the small world of paris is well chewed, despite the cliches sores on taxi drivers they are the target of a surprising "class racism" very common in paris must say.
what is less well seen is all that relates to the couple and as the story about this is plenty of room at the end and it is not structured enough, the dynamics of the film suffers.
two times are unpleasant taxi driver who loves can not be anti-semites and expatriate citizens who are part, can be an amateur teenage thai (good and bad expatriates?
was guessed that was part the first group).
bonuses are another kind of problem because it says the scenes and dialogue with a journalist (a follower of the ridiculous habit of sprinkling of english words his questions in french).
first thing, delpy does not measure the issues of fiscal discipline and the language that should arise: structural faults (something very important, i made them laugh), anglicisms (connect with someone, objectifying, sex, be romantic), ankles that dragged across (somewhere at the same time), a loose pronunciation (chuis, queqchose) and accumulation of profanity shows a limited awareness of language levels (testicle, whore, bitch , ass).
if they do not know where they can say bad words is an expression of vulgarity, we're here in full vulgarity.
it is filthy is surprising because as she says, "i do not like vulgarity" and it also repeats four times the word vulgar in half-hour interview.
it expresses itself in a very neutral but english subtitles translate consistently a notch below and take everything he says to a record coarse or foul, then it is absolutely not in his language .
it is possible that the director knows it but believes that this poses no problem: for example it would talk with his parents a lot of big words so very free.
it is amazing to finally see that someone is bilingual so superficial a report with the language: the truth is people in their relation to language.
in short, it would not have been exposed as well.
