released in 1981, is the timeless kind of work which, if it came out today, suciterait more than likely the same enthusiasm, the same passion, the same amazement at all the master's talent for writing, original music, personality, consistency and soul, qualities that characterize the entire production of the blonde beret and other bibis multifaceted -- very nice indeed, that of the back cover with its black raffia and feathers, the (re) and beautiful umbrella propped on the shoulders of sal bernardi-but are magnified in "pirates", even more than 'elsewhere. "pirates" has not yet listened to the first, far from it, the seductive and immediate "rickie lee jones' first wafer in the range of 8 studio recordings rlj published to date ( the blonde runaway olympia, washington state usa was not a fertility issue out dementia in thirty years, but ... "it's like this"!
no "chuck e's in love" or "company" or "coolsville" or "last chance texaco" here.
ultra shine for all tracks "rickie lee jones" may have been we still had more to do with a collection of pieces unstoppable, superbly articulated throughout a first work of which there is no need to salute the glory, both earned the rewards-the-flooded at the time its output (rlj sacred best new artist, among others, 79), and as he met the public favor. "pirates" he is more of a concept album than a compilation of killer tunes-" like, all controlled and more brilliant one than the others, "rickie lee jones.
as brilliant and amazing that the latter, it does have an additional dimension, that of magnificence, which gives the ravaged soul of the neo-beatnik with a big heart, dislocated by the love that was leaking again and again, continued his break with tom waits.
chiseled words with extreme precision formulas in murderous form of farewell to a young woman who was robbed, one more time, his heart through all these pirates map of tender ... "well, goodbye boys, oh my buddy boys, oh my sad-eyed sinatras ...
you just reach right out and take it.
you say - so long, lonely avenue ..." goodbye, then, to tom and all mates, and troll and déglingue and to all the tunes of sinatra, one of the absolute references to jones, with all forms of jazz, at least to the time-.
rickie lee lost daughter, abandoned girl, do not leave me, where the sublime cover with this picture no less sublime brassaï ...
ambiance symphony and passionate, even rhapsodie, and mega-sharks studio orchestrations to fall to the ground, sometimes with cons-point just the simplicity and the judging of a simple piano compositions tender and bruised and rebels, because that we are dealing with rlj, and not a standard bêleuse box-office-like "skeletons" and "lucky guy".
it is in this album unique rlj will give full measure of its uniqueness in writing, which definitely stands out from laura nyro to whom she as has been compared with atmospheric compositions and multi-directional, spiral-songs that are gradually become his trademark.
the first starts in its top notes giving tone to the disc: touchy.
desperate but rebellious, passionate and loving it, and pissed off (just rlj, whatever).
