quite honestly, this all stars band-like outlandish, formed by former guns and ex-stp, promised everything, and instead of waiting for a rock the size of guns'n'roses, we could still expect a strong inspiration born of the clash of these titans and then a bunch of songs with catchy titles with devastating force guitars, etc..
those who fawn this group can not be objective because, although the guitars are very present and even fit inside, all suffering from a lack of that inspiration as expected.
a picture of slash's snakepit-shaped semi-soft cheese is ok, "contraband" a real desire for battle, but not the means to do so.
and we now understand that composers guns were not the ones who play in this velvet revolver, even if they remain non-standard musicians.
the inspiration, it has or has not.
you can not hate an opening title as "sucker train blues," or as "big machine", which are effective, but subconsciously tries to persuade that they are killing, just because slash and the consorts running, then it is wrong.
they are good rock songs ...
i would say that not a single song on this disc could position itself as imparrable tube.
never hear a riff or a chorus that is the fatal sign of greatness, the mark of genius, talent, a song which is an entire disc, which makes you think that this song alone is worth buying the disc.
this would polutôt the opposite: the sum of all these winded titles moderately inspired that maybe it would be worth tracking down this cd for half price.
while this lack of personality is of course paled by a monstrous production, superb sound, a powerful interpretation, tape it and scratched it all goes to disco ...
but not tender steak is a steak not tender even with the best sauces in the world and all the trimmings that you want.
i want to believe that the parties involved have broken to make this disc, jamming, composing, but i do not think their goal has never been nor to revolutionize the style, or make anything.
this disc is not essential, it's just a hard rock power more ...
it also find the same features on "libertad", 2nd opus of the gang ...
so i put 2 stars instead of 3 of departure for such a bunch of killers there was legitimate right to expect better.
