in 1994, robert plant and jimmy page return with a cd full of good 14 tracks of which 10 are listed securities of various albums by led zeppelin.
on the cover, we see that our fellows have aged, but this return is not it nice?
the novelty is that the duo has created a hindu singer and instrumental ensemble in egypt.
the idea is not new because in the past, led zeppelin had already gone to the maghreb to soak up their music, and indeed the choice of tunes by led zep leaves no doubt: it is mostly tracks with oriental influences were evident in their original versions, which have been selected as a priority, an old dream of playing with the participation of arab musicians has performed well.
the chemistry between rock, folk and arabic music is rather successful and emotion is very present.
the guitar of jimmy page is still blazing, michael lee, without actually forget john bonham, is doing more than respectable and the magic is working again.
the only weak point being the voice of robert plant back slightly, we feel it would go well in acute as in the heyday of the airship, but he can not really, but when he does so on rare occasions ( " since i've been loving you "), the public reacts to the quarter-lap behind.
first among the 4 unreleased: "yallah," "city do not cry" and "wah wah" strongly influenced by arabic music, 1 of 3 is the most hard, the 2nd and 3rd are more traditional.
again the problem arises from the comparison with the originals, but good numbers of versions are so different from their ancestors that the term "recovery" may seem almost incongruous. "since i've been loving you" is once again very poignant in a different mood versions already known.
the version of "nobody's fault but mine" is even better here than the album "presence" to share the battery.
in "battle of evermore" by the late sandy denny is replaced by najma akthar not without charm either; a total success!
the final highlight of this album is a version of incandescent 12:30 "kashmir" further east than the original.
for the record, know that it is this version (not the original) that the famous rapper puff daddy has chosen for the sample of "come with me" known to all football fans because it is generic the famous program "telefoot.
a very successful album that you can buy without problem.
