elizabeth bennett has no chance.
whenever there is a disagreeable man in the corner he can not help but ask her in marriage.
collins first, poor and servile, proposes marriage to anything that moves.
after all marriage is socially mandatory, but no matter who you marry.
darcy, however, chooses who he wants to marry her and sticks to it.
but the arrows of cupid face the armor of self-esteem of elizabeth, mr.
darcy is certainly rich and titled, but elizabeth does not support his haughty air.
bingley, while his sister elizabeth despises m .
but he is mistaken.
and this mistake lies in the strength of the book (and its superiority compared to other works of jane austen).
jane and bingley do not control their love and their marriage will only occur if their entourage decides.
the question of the nature of the relationship between lydia and wickham is a highly social affair.
elizabeth and darcy, however, have character (up pride) and no third parties will be allowed to interfere.
everything happens in their perception of each other, only their pride and their prejudices may stand between them.
the romantic challenge a society civilized and very rigid.
in this society evolve heroines of jane austen and they want the no messing, just carve out a small space of liberty and free choice when they feel suffocated.
it does not undermine marriage itself, but she wants to choose her husband without taking into account the economic details.
jane austen ridicules collins who slavishly obeys the conveniences and lydia who understands nothing and wants to marry for fun, to tease his sisters.
a heroine of jane austen must have a heart but also brains.
if you can not say that elizabeth is an emancipated woman (it would also be an anachronistic) is still the only woman in the book to make personal choices as opposed to what common sense would impose.
for her marriage is both a personal and social and not confined to the alliance of two families or two fortunes.
in this she is ahead of its time.
