 The one who dreamed of glory and be covered with famous chieftain
before thirty years, rather than thinking of strategic combinations and original fortifications has to deal
with the washing and cleaned up a few surly waiters who come from excessive smelling health
field, try the ranch, talk about shorts and shirts and calculate the duration of boots and sandals.
He who never entered the kitchen of his home and was cared carefully by her mother, ignoring women's
issues as everything that was not to cry control and align soldiers first encountered in the
military is the need to be a cook, tailor, shoemaker, etc., often holding their superiors refusals
because it does not demonstrate proficiency in these tasks.

- It's true - Juanito said, laughing - but without it there can be no army and the army is
necessary.

- No need to discuss whether or not.

I mean only that you (and if you do not, because it goes to a good start, his teammates) are
a deluded, unknowingly preparing the failure of life, like those other young people, poorer
or less vigorous, are to enter the Church. The Church ended because there is no faith, military
glory is over forever in Spain because there are no wars of conquest and power our feisty character
was lost, fortunately, for centuries. If we still have war, civil or colonial; zompas wars we might call,
dull and useless, in which men die as well as at Thermopylae or in Austerlitz, as only a life
once lost, but without the consolation of fame and public admiration, without the aura of what
they call glory. You were born too late. The brightness of other ages are attracted to the
illusion, but arrive late to call. You are the warriors of a people necessarily must live in peace,
as the seminarians are the future priests in a country already no miracles, nor is there faith,
but routine and laziness of thought.

- But if we no longer have foreign wars, if eventually the gains we
serve, the less to defend the integrity of Spanish soil, to save the
house.

Do you think - added piqued the cadet - we are not willing to die for their country?

- No doubt it is the only thing we serve the Spanish-to die very heroically,
but finally die.

For two centuries our history contains nothing heroic deaths. "Glorious defeat of that party.
"" Heroic disaster of such other. "By land and sea have caused astonishment in the world, throwing
us with his eyes closed in danger, presenting the head without flee with the stoicism of the Chinese. But
nations are not great for his defiance of death, but for his ability to stay alive. The Poles
were the terror of the Turks and about of the best soldiers in Europe, and Poland for some
time that there .... If a great power could invade Europe (mind you when I say 'could', because
in these cases is not wanting the same power), from here I know what would happen. The Spanish
would know die but have you the assurance that the invaders did not take more than two battles
pitched to finish with all our means of warfare. And that can rid a couple of days, how many
sacrifices it costs the country ...!

- Then - ironically the cadet said - there will be deleted and leave
the army helpless the nation.

- Today, do not expect that to happen.

While Europe is armed and even more small nation has an army, Spain will have it too. It is
she who will lead by example, and this example would be useless.

It is as if to redress social injustice initiate the sacrifice one that only had a few thousand
pesetas, denying them ....

After a long silence, Gabriel spoke softly, in view of the ironic
and almost aggressive gesture Cadet.

- You will undoubtedly hurt
my statements.

Believe me, I'm sorry, I do not like beliefs hurt anyone, plus those that form the ideal of life.
But the truth is the truth.

You do not care about social issues, is not it? Not known, nor will be concerned for a moment.
The same will happen to all his colleagues, and yet, what you suffer in prestige, in his love of
country and its flag, no other reason than the social disarray that prevails today in the world.
Wealth is everything capital is the lord of the land. Science governing mankind as the successor
of faith but the rich have taken their findings and to perpetuate their monopoly tyranny. In
the economic world have become owners of the machines and other advances, using them as chains
to enslave the worker, forcing him to excess production and limiting to the minimum wage.