 He
was having fun with it. It was a playful cat and ferocious mouse prolonging the agony fallen
into their paws. In his mind spoke a brutal voice, as if they advise a homicide. "Today does not
happen! ... Not happen today !...», was repeated several times, ready to major violence out
of a situation he considered ridiculous.

And she, unaware of the thoughts of his companion, deceived by the stillness of her face still
talking to staring into the horizon, speaking softly, like if count
himself illusions.

The dominant as a momentary obsession draft live in one house of Possilipo,
all alone and live a life of monastic isolation with all the comforts
of modern life.

- And yet - he went - this environment is not conducive
to solitude, this landscape is for love.

Aging slowly two love each other, to the eternal beauty of the Gulf! ... Too bad that is not
never loved me! ...

This was an insult to Ulysses, he did express the aggression boiling at the bottom of his temper.
And him? ... Do not you love her and was willing to try with all kind of sacrifice? ...

The sacrifices as proof of love to this woman left cold, welcoming
them with a skeptical expression.

- All men have told me the same
thing - he added -, all promise to kill if they are loved ... and
most of them is but a phrase of passionate rhetoric.

And although they are killed really, what does this prove? ... Suicide is a resolution of one minute,
that does not place to repentance, a simple nerve burst, a gesture that is often thought in
what people say, with pride of the actor frivolous want to fall in good posture. I know what
that is. A man was killed by me ...

Ferragut, hearing the last words, shook his immobility.

A malicious voice sang on Brain: "I go three !...»

- I saw him dying - she continued - in a hotel bed. He had a red spot like a star the bandage on
his forehead: the hole in the pistol. Died clinging to my hands, swearing I loved and who had
been killed by me ... A painful scene, horrible ... And yet I'm sure he himself was deceived,
that I loved. He was killed by wounded vanity to see me away from him, for stubbornness, for
theatrical gesture, influenced by his reading ... He was a Romanian tenor. This was in Russia ...
I've been an artist a little time ...

The sailor wanted to express amazement that produced the various mutations of this existence
errant and mysterious increasingly showing a new side, but he restrained himself, for better hearing
advice cruel evil voice that spoke his mind ... The killing was not intended for her ... Quite
the contrary: his aggressiveness silently next examined as a victim. There was something in her
eyes when the deceased Triton discerned in the distant coast feminine
skirt and fleeting.

Freya went on.

- To kill is not a proof of love. All have promised me from the first words the sacrifice of
its existence. Men do not know another song ... Do not imitate them, Captain.

He was thoughtful for a long time. The rapidly advancing twilight. Medium amber sky was the
other half of Blue Night, which began to flash the first stars. The Gulf fell asleep beneath the leaden
cloak of the water, exhaling a mysterious freshness communicated
to the mountains and trees.

The whole landscape seemed to take on the fragility the crystal. The silent air trembled with
exaggerated loudness, repeating the fall of a Rowing boats, small as flies, which slid down
the Gulf Cup, extending female voices and invisible to chase in the
woods of heights.

The servants were from table to table placing candles encased in paper lanterns. The mosquitoes
and moths, revived by the twilight, buzzed around the flowers of light red and yellow.

Returned to her voice sounded in the twilight atmosphere, with the
same vagueness that if speaking in dreams.

- There is a greater sacrifice
than life, the only one who can convince a woman that is loved.

What is life for a man like you ... His profession endangers every day, and when it rests on
the ground I can risk it for the most trivial reason ...

He paused again and continued:

- The honor is better than life for some men, the respect, preservation
of their place.

I just convince a man who risked for me honor and position, descend to the bottom, without
losing its will to live ... That's a sacrifice!

Ferragut was alarmed by these words. What sacrifice would propose this woman? ... But keep
listening calmed down. It was all a hypothesis of his disordered
imagination.

"It's crazy," he said again in his brain inside the counselor.

- I have dreamed many times - she continued - with a man who stole from me, if he was killed
accurate, and was to spend the rest of his years in prison ... Thief Poor me! ... I live only for
him, going day and night next to the walls of his prison, spying
on the bars, working as a woman of the people to send good food to
my band ... That's love, cold and not lies, oaths drama of our world.

Ulises repeated his mental comment: "Definitely crazy." But this thinking is reflected in his
eyes so clearly, she guessed.

- Do not be afraid, Ferragut - he smiled -. I will not require such
a sacrifice.

All this I'm talking about is fantasy, imaginative inventions to
fill the emptiness in my soul.

Blame the wine, exaggerated our libations to the gods, which have now been without water ... Look!

He
pointed to a serious comic two empty bottles that occupied the center
of the table.

Had closed the night. In the endless dark sky twinkling eyes starlike. The vast gulf cup reflected
their sparkle like ice cream wisps.

Lanterns the restaurant drew purple spots on the tablecloth, looking around them the faces
of those who ate with violent contrasts of light and shadow. In the closed rooms escaped scandalous
kissing noises, persecution and falling furniture.

- Come on! - Freya ordered.

He resented the noise of vulgar orgy, as disgraced the majesty of the night. Needed moving, walking
in the dark, breathing the fresh air of mysterious gloom.

In the garden gate hesitate to offers of several coachmen.

Freya was the one who rejected their offers. He wanted to return to Naples on foot, following
the gentle descent of the road of Possilipo, after a long standstill in the restaurant. His
face was flushed and abuse red wine.

Ulysses gave her arm and began to advance in the shade insensibly
driven in initiated by the ease of going downhill.

Freya knew what this trip. At first steps the sailor told it with a kiss on the neck. I was
going to take advantage of all the bends of the road, from high in some places discovered to
descry the Gulf phosphorescent through the woods, the long shadow
areas, cut only occasionally to time by the lamps or lanterns public
carriages and trams ...

But this freedom thing and his companion
were accepted, she had taken the first step at the Aquarium.

In addition, she was sure of his serenity, which would keep the love in the limit she wanted
to set you ... And convinced of its power to react in time, abandoned
the same as a woman up.

Ferragut had never had an occasion as auspicious. An appointment was alone in the mystery of
night with a large space ahead of time.

The only thing annoying was the need march, to unite the hugs and
oaths of love relentless ambulatory activity.

She protested, coming out of his trance, every time I proposed love to sit roadside.

The hope was that Ulysses obeyed Freya, eager for swift action to Naples. Down in the light
curve surrounding the Gulf, was the hotel and saw the ocean as a
place of happiness.

- Say yes! - Whispered in her ear, cutting the
words with kisses -.

Say you will tonight! ...

She did not answer, abandoned in the arm that the captain had passed through his waist, leaving drag
as if half fainting, squinting and offering his mouth.

While Ulysses was repeated entreaties and caresses, the voice of his
brain victory.

"There! ... This is done! ... What matters is putting it in the hotel. "

They had walked about an hour and imagined that only a few minutes had elapsed.

On arriving at the gardens of the Villa Nazionale, near the Aquarium, they stopped for a moment.
There was more light and less people in the way of Possilipo. Fled the electric lights Caracciolo
road, reflecting in the sea pearl moons. Both instinctively they approached a bank, seeking the shade
of ebony trees.

Freya had suddenly calmed. He seemed irritated against herself for his neglect in progress. The
excitement from kissing, constantly renewed, had made him long for a delivery immediately, with the
exasperated desire ... To be close to the hotel now regained their
energy, as in the presence of a hazard.

- Goodbye, Ulysses!

Tomorrow we'll see ... I'm going to spend the night at the doctor.

The sailor pulled a little, with the flip of a surprise. "Was it a joke ?...» But no: no was questionable.
The tone of his words betrayed a strong resolution.

Humbly begged not to go away, gasped and sullen.

At the same time mental counselor told him bitterly: "It is making fun of you! ... It is high
time that this is over ... Make her feel your authority as a man. "And this voice had the same
timbre that Triton the deceased.

Suddenly thought of something violent, brutal, ignoble. Ulises fell upon her as if to kill her,
pressed in his arms, and two, made one body, fell on the bench panting, struggling. The shadow
tore the white flash of a wave of undergarments removed. But it only lasted a moment.

The vigorous Ferragut, trembling with emotion and desire, had only
half its strength.

Suddenly jumped back to two hands clutching a shoulder. Experienced pain excruciating, as if one had
just broken bones.

She had repelled an accurate working pressure of Japanese fencing, which uses the hands as weapons
irresistible.

- Ah ... this! - roared throwing the worst insults women.

And fell on her again, like a man, joining his loving desire a desire
mistreat, debasement, making her slave.

Freya awaits foothold ... Displaying the glacial brilliance of one of his eyes, Odysseus, not
knowing why, it was agreed Eye of the morning, the reptile partner dances.

In this raging bull attack was stopped by a simple touch on the forehead,
a tiny metal circle, a kind of frozen thimble which was based on his
skin.

Miró ... It was a small revolver, a nickel gleaming deadly toy. Had appeared Freya's hand out the
secret of their clothes, or perhaps from that bag of gold which content
seemed inexhaustible.

She put a finger on the trigger, he stared. It was evident familiarity with the gun in his
hand. Should not be the first time brought to light.

The indecisiveness of the ocean was brief. With a man, had taken over his claw hand menacing,
twisting it until it breaks, without his revolver inspire fear. But I had opposite to a woman
... And this woman was able to kill him, placing him in a while ridiculous
situation ...

- Withdraw, sir! - Freya ordered formal and threatening
tone, as if speaking to a stranger.

But it was she who eventually withdrew to see Ulises stepped back, being thoughtful and confusing.
He turned his back, while his hand disappeared from his revolver.

Before leaving muttered several words that could not understand Ferragut, looking at last time with
contemptuous eyes. They must be terrible insults, and uttered the same as in a mysterious language,
he felt deeply his contempt.

- No way ... It's over, is gone forever!
...

He said this several times before returning to the hotel, and
thought for a night's vigil cut in agonizing nightmares. Well into
the morning I awoke from slumber final the trumpets of the bersaglieri.

He
paid his bill in the manager's office and gave the last tip the doorman,
telling that a man hours after the ship would come to take your luggage.

I
was glad with the joy that forced the need to adapt to events. It
congratulated for their freedom, as if this freedom had conquered
voluntarily not be imposed for contempt of it. It hurt the memory
of the previous day, seeing ridiculous and rude. It was better not
to remember what happened.

He stopped in the street to throw a last
glance at the hotel. "Goodbye, albergo damn! ... Never see them again.
May it burn with all its inhabitants! "

Stepping on the deck of the
Mare Nostrum, their satisfaction was forced to rise. Only here could
live away from the complications and lies of terrestrial life.

All
people of the ship, in the weeks before the arrival of the disgruntled
feared captain, smiled now, as if they could see the sunrise after
a storm. Distributed good words and affectionate pats. The work of
rebuilding was going to end up Next ... Very good! I was happy. Return
soon to navigate.

Greeted in the kitchen Caragol Uncle ... This was
a philosopher. All women of the world worth to him what a good rice.
Ah, great man! ... Surely would get to them hundred years. And the
cook, flattered by so much praise, whose origin could not understand,
responded as always: "Yes, sir."

Toni, quiet, disciplined and family,
inspired him with no less admiration. His life was a life straight,
firm and smooth as the path of duty. When junior officers spoke presence
of noisy dinners to jump to the ground with women from different countries,
the pilot shrugged. "The money and the other should be retained for
home," said sententiously.

Ferragut had laughed at many times of
the virtue of his second, he walked hunched and sleepy for much of
the planet, without allowing any distractions to awaken with a voltage
overwhelming if the chances of career brought him to live a few days
at his home Navy