 Tybalt then fought the person Infante,
to Sir John of Misi, lord of the third part of Negroponte to take him the Duke of Athens on behalf
of Charles of France, whose order has await to provide the person of the Prince. They took
him with eight men and four squires to the City Athens, where he was awarded the Duke and his
order with many guards led to the Castle S. Tomer where he was imprisoned a few days.

CHAPTER LVI.

Rocafort and his men take an oath of allegiance to Thibaut of Sipoys
on behalf of Charles France.

At this time, Tybalt and the service was to bring Charles to Rocafort and to the entire company
Granger and tried every means he could. There were those who warned that any could earn more
thing will Rocafort, who deliver two of those prisoners I had, that one was Montaner, the
other Gomez Garcia Palacin, big enemy Rocafort. Tybalt gave credit to the notice, and without
further inquiry embarked on their galleys Montaner, and to Palacin, and he personally went
around the Cape of Casandria, where they were ours with Rocafort, and scarcely had come into
his presence, when he introduced the two prisoners, there appeared to be the means of their friends,
and so were they so unfortunate, since it was founded in blood, and death of an innocent. Entregaronse
both prisoners but with a different sort, because the one you set aside to take his life, and
the other for give you freedom. Honored with great demonstrations of content to Montana, and
he sent Palacin Rocafort then head cut off, without giving more time to live than it took
the executioner to give death, and without anyone dared to replicate on it to Rocafort. Man who is as
mean as Rocafort among both soldiers and captains did not cause me admiration; but who among them
did not reveal a good man to stop, or reply to Rocafort warning, if you like, it offended his fame,
and obscured his deeds, with execution as inhumane, and out of season. Gomez Garcia Aragones
was Palacin, brave soldier, and honest gentleman, although unfortunate, chief captain and defender
of Vando of Berenguer de Entenza, and Fernan Jimenez Arenas.

With this fact unworthy of any man who is, Rocafort lost friends, and reputation; to death as a gentleman
who was retiring as a conquered country, where not might offend or to impede its greatness, and
evidence was a clear sign of their cruelty and ferocity. Montaner, as he had been Master Sound
of our army, and was in charge all pen officers, had Granger with their successful conclusion,
and indeed the minds of all soldiers, and so loved him as a father, something rarely seen feathered
love people whom ordinarily hate and slander, because it seems that being rested, with traps and
tangles in the military damage accrue, and rich, and they a thousand
hardships and dangers live forever in a miserable fate.

Were all to Montana with general rejoicing, and then gave an inn of the most honest he had, and the Turks,
and Turkish Greeks first presented with twenty horses, and a thousand shields, and Rocafort
a horse of great price, and other things of value, without estimation huviese person throughout
the army for not giving something. Tybalt of Sipoys and Venetian masters that gave him, a little
foolish to see that they should do so much honor to whom they had stolen As he had, and feared that
do him no harm in thwarting his designs, and forms, but Montaner
was sane, and as there seemed a sure thing to stay in our field, nor
prevented, nor faboreci칩.

Rocafort which until then had been dubious to accept as part of Carlos de France Tybalt of Sipoys
offered him, because respect for the house of Aragon stopped him but when was certain that because
he would not admit the Infante Don King by Frederic, the houses of the kings of Aragon, Sicily,
Mallorca, I would be enemies, came as Tybalt wanted, that the company received for its general
on behalf of Charles of France, offering the outstripped wages, and high hopes, that was what
they could give. This was sworn fidelity, forcing what I can judge, violence Rocafort, because waste
disposal his natural prince, and take the strange and enemy, it is impossible for the Catalans
and Aragonese voluntary consent, will not Rocafort tried, but they had security the Turks, and
Turkish Greeks, and part of the Almugavaria who blindly obeyed, although the Rocafort did not
seem that it was treason, because they took up arms against their rulers, but only turned from
its services: tender thing in those days and used, and more when precedian grievances. Not least
was by hatred that they had to the house of Aragon, and love to that of France, but wanted
to get close to the prince then less powerful towards away from it
more easily when your things arrived to the state waiting to be seen.

Because they ran a voice among many, which wanted to call Rocafort King of Thessaloniki, or Salonique,
and this was not without some foundation, for he had moved the seal of the army that was the image
San Pedro, and instead sent to a crowned king; obvious signs of his high and daring thoughts, and
without doubt become absolute ruler, if his great greed and arrogance not address the footsteps
of his prosperous fortune, while he offered a state that could found, and enhance your home. If Rocafort
lived when our occupied states of Athens, and Neopatria, I have by no doubt not to call the
King of Sicily, but he received for their prince and lord, it could be done with very fair title,
having been Rocafort his many years general work times, and under
whose command, and had reached GOVERNMENT so many victories, and as
glorious end to so notable companies.

After they saw the galleys Tibaldo Venetian army general on behalf of Charles, left around the house
and Ramon Montaner with them, but begged him to stay long, but as
he knew the little security that was in the condition of Rocafort,
never wanted to stay, pediendoselo even very strongly the same Tybalt.

CHAPTER LVII.

Montaner with Venetian galleys returned to Negroponte, and Athens
is the Infante Don Fernando.

Juan Tari general of Venetian galleys by order of Tybalt gave a galley to Montana carry it to his
comrades, his servants, and his clothes, and himself embarked on Captain with Tari, who was by
far given, and served.

Besides these letters gave Tibaldo to Montana to Negroponte, who commanded that he restituyese
everything he had stolen from his gallery when they took the Infante, and this failing life and
wastage of goods, if any concealed it. With this good office left Montaner Negroponte to the Venetian
galleys, where they arrived in good time and then reported Tybalt's letters to the chief justice
of Venetians. Then cries made themselves with penalties such restitution of those who do not,
and John Damici, and Boniface Berona as lords also of the island made the same cries, when they
saw the letter of Tybalt, supreme minister in parts of the King. Were the cries little obeyed,
because they were but only to satisfy and comply with this demonstration with Tybalt because not charge
Montaner anything of the lost, or gave other satisfaction.

Montaner as a true servant server and the Infante Juan Tari asked to give him place to go
to the City of Athens and consolalle see him in prison, who as born a subject of his household,
could not dexar to go as tight as if seeing him prisoner. Tari very politely offered to wait
Negroponte four days in, that would have enough time to go to visit the Prince, and back; because
Negroponte, Athena had twenty-four miles alone.

Montaner left with five horses, and coming to the City wanted to see the Duke, and although found
him sick, gave place to see him and received him with great courtesy, and words very expensive
earned him the feeling that the event had taken Negroponte, when stole his hat, and he offered
all that being offered to help him really. Montaner replied that he felt much thanks and honor
to him, but just wanted to see Infante Don Fernando.

Duke gave him license to much compliance, and ordered in time Montaner was with the Prince,
all quanta wished could enter the castle, and visitalle. Then given free entry Sant Ober, and seeing
the Prince Montaner, the Tears formed the words, which showed the feeling of seeing him start hands
of foreigners. The infant instead of receiving some consolation from Montana, was it the that
was given, and encouraged with words of great courage and perseverance.

Montaner stopped two days in his company, speaking the most necessary means for freedom, and ultimately
wanted to stay for napkins, and asistille in prison, not consented
Infante parecelle the most convenient for him to go to Sicily to deal
with the King of his release.

Letters to the King gave him, and charged him as an eyewitness referring to his uncle all had
happened in Thrace, and Macedonia, on admitille on their behalf. With that said goodbye Montaner,
and went to take leave to become the Duke, who was gifted with some jewels, which were of great benefit,
because all the money they had forsaken the trahi Infante and divided his clothes among those
who served him.

Returned to Negroponte, is left after the galleys, and sailing along the coasts of the Morea,
came to the Island of Wisdom, where he encountered four Dasfar Riambau
galleys, who language had already Montaner.

The Venetians always suspected people of the Republic, departing Montaner, Riambau Dasfar asked
if I was a man who would keep faith. Respodi칩les that was a good gentleman, and he would not
be enemies or friends would hurt the King of Aragon, and that security could be together, and
honor to Riambau. This is quieted, Montaner went to the galley Riambau Dasfar, and then all
came together, and they invited the captains with great simplicity and safety.

Clarence came to where they stopped the Venetian galleys, and then spent Montaner Riambau to
those in whose company he came to Sicily and Castronuevo was seen with the king, and told gave a
long account of what happened along with the letter of the Prince. King showed great feeling,
and then wrote to the King of Mallorca, and the King of Aragon, so
that together supports freedom of Don Fernando, and in this half brother
of King Charles of France wrote the Duke of Athens to send the person
of Prince to King Robert of Naples.

Obeyed Duke, and so the child came to Naples prison where he spent
a year in a civil prison, because they went out to hunt, and ate with
Roberto, and his wife, who was his sister.

The King of Mallorca his father by the King of France had achieved
freedom, came to the Infante Colibre to be with his father.

CHAPTER LVIII.

Prison Berenguer, and Gisbert Rocafort.

Ours after he admitted to Tybalt by Captain General, and swore in the name of Brother of King
Charles of France, held the post of Casandria, livelihoods of incursions, and entries into the soil
inside, until they came to Thessalonica, where was Empress with the whole court, with all
the riches and treasures of the Empire of the Greeks, that this ambitious
woman had collected to enhance his sons in serious damage Miguel his
stepson, father's legitimate successor.

While moving fearlessly Rocafort was increase, and greatness, came to its prosperity, and the beginning
of his misfortune, that times more often in greater confidence and security of man in order to
clearly know the instability of human affairs and that no power can make in himself, because
the causes of the enhancement are the same ruin.

The first cause and reason for deriballe had his enemies, he was known in a large ignorance
of what he owed to his own nature and blood, because besides being cruel, it was Greedy and
lascivious, intolerable defects in princes, because life, honor and property, major assets
of mortal man, are always in danger. The desire to take customers satisfaction and revenge the
wrongs of Rocafort, fear is concealed, until they took the occasion of the little attention
and respect that Rocafort, had to Tybalt, and secretly put to talk their freedom, thinking
that would find on Tybalt as a man wronged, the remedy grievances, they were almost common
to all. They said they would help to Tybalt so hard to get out of bondage, and to restrain
the insolence of Rocafort, then forgotten about what I had done a good governor, and captain,
trampling the laws of nature, using their power in illicit things, and beyond all reason, and
free subjects and their slaves, and property Agenos as their own.

It was time that the evils of Rocafort they had punished, and their hardships and dangers so that
as he was the supreme head put an appropriate remedy, and give satisfaction to many injured.
Tybalt as a single and foreigners, fearing that they were not spying on Rocafort to discover
your mood, answered with ambiguous words, or charge Rocafort, or desperation to them.

French man was very wise and very experienced, and wanted even aggrieved Rocafort tempt the sweetest
way to moderalle because, as the main reason for his coming had to have been part of our army, no notice
of his particular authority, but in what was to be important for the prince, whose minister
was. The first half which was taken secretly to speak with great Rocafort, and Pedilla that was
at hand in their tastes, by preceding the damage it might cause.

But unaccustomed to suffer Rocafort People claiming to stop and correct their disorders responded
so harshly to Tybalt, which obliged him to remedy more violent and desperate to keep them in
Rocafort service of his prince, but he consented to their tricks she practices, determined
to take revenge on him, and dexar our company.

But he concealed this determination until her son came with six galleys of Venice whither he
had sent some months earlier. They arrived within a few days, and Tybalt Quando safe saw the
backs are sent in great secrecy to say to the captains conspirators, which might make him know
what had worked businesses Rocafort. They responded to gather together the council, and that
it would see the effects of its determination. Thibaut god understood, and the next day he gathered
the council, declaring that he had important things to deal with in him. Rocafort came with
insolence and arrogance that he used. The first talk which proposed, they all began to Quex of
him, but as before no man had been dared to contradict him, nor dared he discovered, strangely alborot칩se
and Ayrad face and heavy words, the wanted to run over as usual. Then Captains conspirators
were rising from their seats, and more lleg치ndosele multiplying the Quex, and remembering that all
grievances to, saying and doing, he grabbed to him, and his brother, without being able to resist,
because the conspirators were many, and resolved.

After them both brothers were prisoners, and delivered to Tybalt,
attacked the house Rocafort, and looted it all, stretching the military
leave, as usual in such cases without detenelles debian have the respect
to the walls of the General who had been so many years, and with his
sword, and defended heberles value many times.

CHAPTER LIX.

Tybalt the two brothers carrying prisoners, dexa the
army, and led to Naples, where they were killed