 There,
they also won over Don Juan Pacheco, the Marquis of Villena and Don Iñigo López of Mendoza
el de Santillana. Kings, nobles and poets fought side by side; to win Castile and , they say, to guard
the glory of the prince, Don Enrique, who would later be known as,
Enrique IV, the Impotent!

Secondly, the honor of Castile was damaged by the winners and losers, by the nobles and by the king, demonstrating
as a testimony to history, when the kings do not represent the interests
of their people, the laurel in their hands becomes a funeral lamentation.

But, let us leave history to the respect of the printed law that governs
us.

From Madrid to Valladolid it is thirty-four leagues to the summit, which is a twenty-three hour
march.--Well, I arrived in the Ciudad de Don Álvaro de Luna at five
in the morning.

And, already the heat was tolerable, the air flowing and pleasant
vegetation.

There was a river crossing for boats full of bathers. There were thorny trees, beautiful bathhouses
and a street called las Moreras, where I studied a group of women from Valladolid one late Sunday afternoon.
And, there was a large field, a walk at night much longer than the village of Prado and Corte.
Everyone predicted a very promising future for Valladolid.

The railway, that called with its doors, will develop the elements
of wealth possessed by this very ancient country, along with industry,
livestock and agriculture.

In the present state, there are enduing paper mills, textile industries, bakeries, chemical
manufacturers, flour mills, boiler makers, beer, leather, button,
glue manufacturers, the fabrication of metals, foundries, lace makers,
silver workers, blacksmiths... Many of these are on a small scale,
but with the capacity of great prosperity and life.

As to artistic beauty, historical events, national glories, Valladolid is, as we are told, the Seville
of the north. I visited the cathedral, or rather a fragment of what was constructed, but studying the
plans and projects of Juan de Herrera that are kept at the Cabildo, I understood that if the great
architect had not abandoned his work at the Escorial, Spain would
today have a Renaissance church worthy to be alongside St. Peter's
in Rome.

Still, in the reduced proportions, the cathedral at Valladolid imposes a coarse and solemn soul
of magnitude...Its appearance is like a stone elephant, an Indian
pagoda, a prideful mountain.

All the desecration imposed upon this great unfortunate Churriqueresque
building dissapeared and remains buried under the noble Doric facade,
so pure and impressive as those Corinthian pillars which were equivalent
to other monuments. But, my letter would never end, if one were to list,
not to describe to you, all the artistry and poetry found in this
immense necropolis of our history, called Valladolid.

What is not said, is more of the principal.