 If both parties feel, or both feel all the sound, or each a portion of
it, if you both feel completely, one is of leftovers, since not rather than try to explain
the realization of the phenomenon, already tested with another single. If each party feels, not
entirely sound, but a portion of it, we have the split tone. What is the division of a sound?

Moreover, even made the imaginary sound division, not for us to explain the phenomenon; because
the sound felt by A, it will not be felt by B, then it can never be a full feeling.

Pretend that A and B are brought into relationship, communicating each other of their share? but in this
case we have to feel all its own, and also what the community B, then What's the B if A feels
everything? Why not put all the feeling early on A? Jump to the eyes that such communication
is an absurd hypothesis, because it would result that feeling that the total would be essential parts
of the successive communication each other, and each felt the same and what send the other, forming
thus, not a single sensation but had few parts, and outputs is not a sentient being alone but
in the same number of parts.

This communication scenario is finally ended up in the admission of our system because recognizing
the need for unity to be the sensation. Why is communicated Regarding the parties would have
felt? because it could otherwise become the overall feel, and in this way would be done to get
each part of herself that had not. And to what end? so that each felt it all, then the feeling
needs to be any in a single subject, then he refuses to step the unit, it is recognized necessary.

[14.]
The parts A and B, or would be simple or not, if they were simple,
why insist on holding materialism, if the purpose was to arrive at
simple things?

To say that sensation is a effect of the organization, and yet be put in a simple, is a manifest
contradiction; simple because it can not be organized, there is no organization when no organized
party. If it is accepted to be simple, and he gets the feeling, then the organization will be, if you
will, a means, a conduit, or an indispensable condition for the realization of the phenomenon; but
it is not the subject of this, but simple. If the parties are not simple, be composed of others,
in which case you can ask of them, like the first; In the absence of simple beings to reach or come
to infinity. If you support this process, Being sensitive is not one, but infinite, and the difficulties
we had with single two parts A and B, are multiplied to infinity, resulting in each being sensitive,
not a but infinite, and every sensation is not one but infinite.

[15.] Grave difficulty arises here. If the matter is incapable of feeling, the soul of Gross is
not matter, if intangible, the spirit, which can not be accepted.

This difficulty vanishes setting well-meaning words. There is a difference be intangible spirit,
every spirit is immaterial: But not all be immaterial spirit. Heritage, means denial of matter, spirit
means something more: because that for this understand a single word being endowed with intelligence
and free will. The soul of be as intangible gross without any spirit.

Some say: it is not body is spirit, no middle ground between these two kinds of beings. Why? What
is so great cover safety? If you say that there is no middle ground between the material and
intangible, it would seem good, for indeed there is no medium between the yes and no, any thing
is or is not, but the idea of ??spirit goes into much more than simple denial of matter; comes
the idea of ??an active, intelligent and free.

[16.] But then, they say, what is the nature of the soul of the brute? and I ask, What is the nature
of most of the things we offer? This nature "Know themselves or their actions? Our very soul,
maybe we see intuitively? Why Ventura did not know the acts that we have consciousness? Well, in
a similar way the sensitive soul known for their acts, that is, the feeling, know that is not matter,
because the matter is incapable of feeling, and to the way of our soul we know it a simple
being, the active ingredient with intelligence and freedom, we say that the soul of brutes is
a simple being endowed with the power of feeling and instincts and appetites the sensible order.

I
do not know what this is active itself considered, but his actions
reveal him as me superior force to the bodies, as one of many activities
that give life to nature.

I find that life-giving power in a portion of matter admirably organized, and conspires to an
organization whose purpose is the harmonious exercise of the powers of this living we call animal
not knowing what that force in itself, does not prevent me to affirm its existence, and that
the phenomena revealed to me in an incontestable.

[17.] What then is the fate of these souls or those vital forces in
destroying they enliven the organization?

Is it reduced to nothing and can not be broken not consist of parts? Will they continue to exist,
waiting for their turn to chair a new organization? Here are several questions that determine
who is good to examine then separately.

If the soul of brutes has no parts, disorganization can not perish;
not disorganized which is not organized, and it is not that which
has no organized party.

From this it follows that the soul of brutes can not perish by corruption itself, for so it has
to verify all be that is not composed of matter. I do not see that under this aspect can offer
no difficulty, but the question is unresolved but its negative part, because so far we only
know that the soul of brutes is not corrupted or decomposition does not die; fáltanos know
what it is, is it overwhelms? Are you still there? and if so, in what way? These are different questions.

Above
all it should be noted here fit conjecture, rather on the possibility
of reality, philosophy can make us descry what might have, not what
is, as reality can be to us not known without experience, and that
we need in this case.

In good philosophy, when asked what is on this point, the best answer is: no I know, when asked
what could be, then enter the reasoning based on general principles, and particularly in the analogy.

[18.]
It is often said that nothing is destroyed, this proposition was necessary explanations. What
means to annihilate? cease to be, without remaining anything that had before, if disorganized
a body, no longer as an organized body, but the matter remains, there is as annihilation. Is
it true that nothing is destroyed?

According to some, one must distinguish between substances and accidents; as the latter are
a kind of incomplete beings, there is no objection to leave to be without remaining anything from
them, but that will not annihilate itself disappearance says: so we see that things are continually
transformed, ie suffering from a succession accidents, which no longer exist when the thing ceases to
be amended as respective. As to the substance, if there would cease to be true annihilation;
but this does not take place because no substance is destroyed. So some people think, I do not know
what is truth in this system because I do not know which is the solid foundation that can buttress.
If a substance for an object, in ceasing this why could not annihilate? A being raised, you need
continuity of action breeder Being conservative, thus stated that conservation is a continuous
creation and when leaving the object that is intended to raised substance, what problem will
it be annihilated? I do not see that this repugnant and to the wisdom or the goodness of God,
when an architect has an instrument to stop serve, or discard as unusable: in God this would be equivalent
to removing the conservative action, and the creature, to be reduced to nothing, if not repugnant
to the wisdom and goodness of God that an organized being is disorganized or ceases to exist
and be organized, why they hate which a substance ceases to exist when they had fulfilled the
purpose for which it was intended? this it follows that it would not be contrary to sound
philosophy to hold that the souls of brutes are reduced to nothing.

[19.] But suppose you do not want to go to annihilation, is there any problems or continue in its
existence? if any, is not reached.

What might?

I do not know, but it is permissible to surmise that absorbed back in the deep of nature would
be useless.

Nor do we know they serve many other beings, not However, neither denying its existence so, or
we question its usefulness. Who has told us the life force that resides in the rough not having
any object in destroying she encouraged the organization? The destruction of a plant "by chance
brings extinction of all vital forces in this living? and those forces, to exercise its action
about being organized is just destroyed, "left by chance to be useful in the mysterious laboratory
of nature? Who told us that a vital force can not be useful but exerted on an object of our
observation? Who told us that in the secret nature of the vital forces do not act in ways very different,
very many, and the effects of their activities do not occur in very different ways, according
to circumstances they are all in conformity to the laws established by the infinite wisdom?
The great profusion with which they are scattered seminal materials, the number of germs find
that everywhere, the immense amount of subject matter in processing and assimilation in living
the mysteries of generation in the plant and animal All this does not indicate that the universe
is shed by a number of vital forces, which operate in very different ways and on a scale of amazing
extension? Who assures us that one vital principle is unable to produce very different phenomena
according to the which is subject to conditions? which lies in the acorn is not the same as
the corpulent oak which has challenged the momentum of hurricanes for a few centuries? If experience
not testify who would be able to suspect that the vital principle of a worm report and foul
is the same as a beautiful butterfly? See it as it is contrary neither to the reason or experience,
to suppose that the soul of brutes, that life force in them lies, whatever it is, continues to
destroy the organization after his body, and absorbed back into the treasures of nature, preserved
in them, not as a useless, but exerting its activity in different ways according to the conditions
subject to which it is [I].

CHAPTER III.

Sleep and wakefulness.

[20.] The fact the feeling is linked with others, and this link is
much of our knowledge.

It has been said tone is quite confident that it was not possible
to demonstrate feelings by the existence of bodies, because one thing
that those being purely inside, it was possible that would lead us
to infer the existence of an external one, and there was no objection
to all our feelings were a set of individual phenomena locked inside
our soul.

At first glance it seems impossible to drop the difficulty: no But if you examine it thoroughly,
they will see that you have been given more importance it deserves.

[21.] The first objection is often made against the testimony of the senses is based on difficult
to distinguish with certainty the waking state of sleep. Sleeping receive impressions similar
to those which affect us awake: how do we make sure that the illusion is not life? The Abbe de
La-Mennais, with that exaggeration that characterizes him, has said: "Those who prove that
the whole life is a dream, a chimera indefinable would do more than
what they could all philosophers to date.

"

I think this is in serious difficulties, but I can not persuade me to be insoluble. I first of all
to examine whether sleep and wakefulness are different, not only in the eyes of sense common,
but also on the right. La-Mennais intended that only the court's consent community can achieve
a final and satisfactory, I am convinced that the reason severe cases
can reach the same result to leading us together, the inner meaning,
common sense and common consent, or in other words, the testimony
of our being and that of our peers.

[22.] The man finds itself in a completely satisfactory assurance of difference between sleep and
waking, to know that we are awake we do not need the testimony of others.

The difference between these states must be sought not only to the clarity and vividness of
feelings, and current certainty that they engender.

Undoubtedly, sometimes in the dream images presented to us as clearly as if we were awake,
and that the certainty is now complete. Who has not experienced during sleep, lively joy or
terrible anguish?

It is true that some, very rarely, disperta, we reminiscence that in the very act of sleep loomed
the question of whether we dreamed, but they rarely frequency, and in general can be sure
that the dream does not go along with this twilight of reflective reason, that warns us of
our state, and the illusion that we suffer. For the ordinary, the duration of sleep, I have
no doubt about what we dream, and embracing a friend with a tender effusion, or cried uncontrollably
over his grave, under the same conditions we would produce the reality.

[23.] The difference is not in the current uncertainty, because on the contrary, usually have
complete certainty. Where is it? Indicates how the reason? How comes philosophy in support
of the internal sense and common sense? This is what we are going to examine.

Regardless of whether sensations have some relation to external objects, whether his testimony
is sufficient for this or that case, and considering them only as phenomena of our soul, there
are two completely different orders of characters acts very marked:
the sleep and wakefulness.

In the depths of our souls, these two states are entirely different: even in the idealistic system,
we must recognize this distinction.

Reflecting on what we experience from which we live, or from which! what happens within us, we can
see that there is in our being two kinds of phenomena.

A regular and steady, experienced two sets of feelings: the one most or less clear, more or
less alive, simply limited to the subject without the assistance of many of our faculties, and especially
without reflection on themselves, in pursuit are other, always clear, always alive, accompanied
by acts of all our faculties, with reflection on them, on their difference of the above, with complete
subjection to our free will in all matters relating to vary, modify, and reproduce them disappear
in a thousand different ways.

I see the paper on which I write, I reflect on this vision, and I take it off when I want and
return to have it when I like, and I link this feeling with others,
and a thousand thoughts, with a thousand fancies, if I like it.

What happens to me in this act, has ever happened to me, and goes on while I check on me this
series of events in this state I call waking; but if you dream of writing, even if it did not happen
that often, if not direct hit pen, not to see it clear, all confused, I do not feel that simultaneous
exercise of all my faculties, not reflect on the state where I am, I am with the full awareness of
what I do with that domain myself, with the clear light and lively in the waking state is
poured over all my actions and their objects. Dispierto, I think what I did, as I do, what do
I remember the dreams and qualify for illusions, and judge them as unrelated species, extravagant,
and compare them with the order and the consequence of what is being offered at the vigil.
None of this while I sleep: maybe There will be a clear feeling, living, but in a way independent
of my will; is an isolated printing is the use of a single power, without the help of others,
without fixed and constant comparisons, as I get when I'm awake, and above all this phenomenon
disappears shortly, or return to be plunged into a state that I have no conscience of me, or go
into another, which reproduces the same set of phenomena than before: clear lucid related; undergoing
the test of reason compared to each other and with the above. Then, apart from any idea of
??the outside world, and even every other being outside ourselves, we the accuracy of the distinction
of the two orders of phenomena, we understand the words, sleep and wakefulness.

When it has tried to attack the certainty of our knowledge on the basis of the difficulty to distinguish
between these states, has seized on a futile argument, supported by a made entirely false.
So far I believe in the impossibility of distinguishing philosophically waking from sleep, rather
that I think the difference between these two states is a of the
most clear and certain of our nature.

Established this truth, and of course no doubt that the sensations experienced during sleep, are not produced
by external objects, and therefore has not ever taken the as a means of getting the truth,
let us turn to another question of greater difficulty and importance.

CHAPTER IV.

RELATIONSHIP OF AN EXTERNAL WORLD SENSATION.

[24.] Our feelings do they have any relation to external objects or phenomena are simple of our
nature? The existence of this inner world that is the set of scenes
offered by the feelings, can we infer the existence of an external
world?

This is not the practice but the theory: this question relates only to the forces of reason, not to
the voice of nature: the stronger voice than any speech, and it is impossible to resist. Whatever
the result we shall give a philosophical examination relations between the ideal and the real
world, it must submit to the need for our nature that makes us believe in the existence of
such relationships. Humanity in the vast majority of individuals, not ever thought, and probably
think, in such examination, and yet, for her, the existence of a real world, different from
us, and continuous communication with us is immune from doubt.

Nature is before that philosophy.

Do not want to indicate that the reason is powerless to express the legitimacy of the inference
It follows that the real from the ideal, or the existence of the external world of the inmate;
I intend only to draw a boundary philosophy, if not shown, at least inspire you sobriety in
their research, and mistrust in the results. And in effect, jump to the eyes must be wrong
to oppose science to contradict a necessity and a fact palpable does not deserve the name of philosophy,
which is set to fight a law that subjects his unwavering rule of humanity, even the philosopher
who dares against this law to protest. All she can say against this law will be as specious
as desired; but not more than an idle reverie, reverie that if the weakness of the understanding
bastare to undo, it will be good to resist nature, until a new existence in another life has come
to reveal what is in the depths of these mysteries, and how they link those links whose contact
points can spot the reason, while nature experiences Grasp the irresistible
that link at all stages of their existence.

[25.] That feeling is something more than mere phenomena of our soul, which are effects of a cause
other than ourselves, is shown by the comparison of them with each
other; about the refer to an external object, and others do not: these
two orders of phenomena present characters very different.

Now there is in me to represent the country where I was born and lived in my first years. It
clearly gives me the broad plain with its fields and meadows, with their low hills that are now isolated
mounds, now extend in several directions flattening to be confused with the level of flat or gradually
rising until joining with the branches of the mountains. I see the high mountain range that
surrounds this whole plain, and that makes it a vast basin, where no more output can be seen
by the party of the south, and the occasional crack that seems to rip into some points raised
by the great wall nature. All this represents me very well inside me, notwithstanding further
than a hundred leagues away: and I represent many times I will, and by the time I want. Perhaps
that may happen without the help of my will offer me the same show, but I'm always free to
distract me, running down the curtain so to speak, for not see that
scene as well as to rise again when I feel like to witness it.

What happens in that instance I was checked against many others, and so I experience within myself
a series of events that I represent external objects, but without
any need to force me to be subjected to them, they take them off and
reproduce with simple acts of my own free will.

At the same time I feel in me happens that another class of phenomena that are not pending my
will, I can not stir or remove when I want, but are subject to certain
conditions, of which I can not do without, on pain of not achieving
what I propose.

Now that I'm experiencing is a picture, or common language, I see a picture I have before. Let
this be a purely internal, and observe the conditions of their existence,
irrespective of any external reality, including that of my body and
the organs through which they passed me, or seem to spread the feeling.

Now

experience the feeling .... now, what has mediated? the sensation of movement, has produced another
sensation of seeing and vision that has destroyed the first, or from the ideal to the real
language, I brought her hand between his eyes and the object. How is it that while is the last sensation
I can not play the first? If there are external objects, if my feelings are produced by them,
it is clear that subject to the conditions that they impose on them: but if my sensations are
nothing more than internal events, then there is no way to explain it.