 This seemed to upset a lot to the crew captive, especially seamanship, and I even
seem to notice alarming whispers that have not been very reassuring for the British if they had heard.

Moreover,
I do not refer incidents of navigation that night, of sorts Navigation
wandering aimlessly, at the mercy of the waves, without sail or rudder.

I would not, therefore, annoy my readers repeating facts already witnessed on board the Trinidad,
and step to tell others entirely new that will surprise you as much as it surprised me.

I had lost my love to walk around the waist and bow castle, and so,
since I found aboard the Santa Ana, I turned to my master in the chamber,
where I could get some rest and feed, because of both was much needed.

There was, however, many wounded who was necessary to heal, and this occupation, very pleasant for
me, I allowed all the rest that my overwhelmed body demanded. Found myself engaged in putting D. Alonso
a bandage on his arm, when I felt a hand on my shoulder, I turned and faced with a tall, wrapped
in luengo blue cloak, and soon, as usual, did not recognize him, but watching him with attention
space of a few seconds, threw an exclamation of surprise: it was the young D. Rafael Malespina,
boyfriend of my mistress.

Clasped D. Alonso with love, and he sat next to us. He was wounded in the hand, and so pale
with fatigue and loss of blood, completely disfiguring emaciation
face.

His presence in my mind was feeling very weird, and I must confess all, although some of them
do little for me. At some point experienced a joy watching someone who has had emerged unscathed from
horrific fight, a moment later the old hatred that this subject inspired me woke up in my chest
as pain that returns to haunt sleepy after a period of relief. With shame I confess: I felt
some regret to see him safe and sound; discharge but also tell me that that pain was a sensation
as a momentary and fleeting lightning, black lightning true that obscured my soul, or rather, slight eclipse
light of my consciousness, which soon shine with splendid clarity.

The perverse part of my guy took me over a moment, in a moment I also learned to silence it
cornering at the bottom of my heart. Can they all say the same?

After this fight moral Malespina saw with joy because he was alive, and shame because I was hurt,
and yet I remember with pride that efforts to show these two feelings. Amita Poor mine! How
great would be his anguish at the time! My heart always concluded and filled with goodness,
I'd run to Vejer to say, "Miss Dona Rosa, your D. Rafael is good and healthy. "

The poor Malespina had been transported to Santa Ana from Nepomuceno, a ship seized also, where
such was the number of wounded, which was necessary, he said, handing
them out to not all perish of neglect.

As father and son changed the first greetings, devoting a few words to the absent families,
the conversation fell on the battle: Master told me what happened in the Holy Trinity, and
then added:

"But nobody tells me where is a fixed point Gravina.

Have you taken prisoner, or retired to Cadiz?

- General - Malespina said - he said a horrific fire at Defiance and Revenge. Have aided and abetted
the Neptune, French, and the San Ildefonso and San Justo, our, but the forces the enemy is
doubled with the help of Dreadnoutgh, the Thunderer and Poliphemus, after which it was impossible
any resistance. Finding himself the Prince of Asturias with all cut the rigging, no sticks,
riddled with bullets, and having been wounded General Gravina and Maj. Gen. Seaton, resolved
to abandon the struggle, because all resistance was insane and the battle was lost. In one
other signal masts put Gravina withdrawal, and accompanied by the San Justo, San Leandro, mountaineering,
Indomptable, the Neptune and the Argonaut, he went to Cadiz, with the pain of not being able
to rescue the San Ildefonso, has been held by the enemy.

- Tell
me what you spent in Nepomuceno - "my love with great interest -.

Even I can not believe he is dead Churruca, and though all give it as a certainty, I have the
belief that divine man must be alive somewhere. "

Malespina said that unfortunately he had witnessed the death of Churruca, and promised tell
time. Circle formed around him some officers, and I, most curious them, I became all ears to
not lose a syllable.

"Since we left Cadiz - said Malespina - Churruca had a premonition of this great disaster. He had
felt from the start because I knew the inferiority of our forces and also little confidence in
the intelligence chief Villeneuve. All his predictions have come some, all, until his death,
it is clear that the sensed, as it was safe not to achieve victory. On 19 Apodaca told his
brother: "First take my ship, the I have to fly or sink. This is the duty of serving the King and
the fatherland. " The same day he wrote to his friend, saying: "If you come to know that my ship has
been taken prisoner, say that I am dead.

"

"It was known in the sadness of his countenance grave which included a disastrous outcome. I I believe
that this certainty and the impossibility of help, feeling strong
enough Thus, deeply troubled soul, capable of great deeds, as well
as large thoughts.

"Churruca was a religious man, he was a superior man. The 21, at eleven o'clock, sent up all
the soldiers and sailors, led to their knees, and said the chaplain with a solemn voice: "Follow
You, Father, with his ministry, and acquit those brave unaware of what awaits them in combat. "
After the religious ceremony, ordered them to standing, and speaking persuasively and firm, said:
"My children, in the name of God, I promise bliss to die doing their duty! If any are missing
them, I will shot immediately, and if it escapes my eyes or those of the brave officers I
have the honor to command, his remorse while he will drag the rest
of their days miserable and unhappy.

"

"This harangue, so eloquent and simple, that unites the performance of military duty with the religious
idea, caused excitement in the whole envelope of Nepomuceno. What a pity value! Everything
was lost as a treasure that falls to the bottom of the sea. Sighted the British Churruca with
the greatest displeasure was early operations mandated by Villeneuve, and when it signals made
the squad virase round, which, as everyone knows, embarrassed the order of battle, told his second
and missed the action felt so awkward strategy. Since then realized the risky plan of Nelson,
which was to cut our line through the center and rear, involving
the combination square and partially breaking their ships, with such
a provision, given that these could not help.

"The Nepomuceno came to be the end of the line. Rompiose fire between Santa Ana and Royal Sovereign,
and on all the ships were going into combat.

Five ships English Division Collingwood went against San Juan, but two of them moved on, and Churruca
faced no more than triples forces.

"We argued strongly against such a superior enemy until two in the afternoon, suffering much, but
returning double havoc to our opponents. The great spirit of our heroic leader seemed to have
communicated to soldiers and sailors, and maneuvers, as well as shots
were made with astonishing promptness.

Cam people had been educated in the heroism, no more than two hours of learning, and our ship,
for its glorious defense was not only terror, but the astonishment of the British.

"They needed reinforcements, took six to one. The two vessels became who had attacked us first,
and was Dreadnoutgh the side of San Juan, to beat us medium shot of a gun. You go figure the fire
of the six giants, throwing bullets and shrapnel over a 74-gun ship. It seemed that our ship grew
larger, growing in size, as it grew the courage of its defenders.

The gigantic proportions taking souls, it seemed that also took the bodies, and to see how forces
instilled fear six times, we thought we were something more than men.

"Meanwhile, Churruca, that was our thinking, directed the action with astonishing serenity. Realizing
that the skill had to supply a force, save the shots, and trusted all to the good shot, thus
ensuring that every bullet made a positive havoc in enemies. To all attending, all available, and
shrapnel and bullets ran over his head, but never once flinched.

The man, weak and sickly, whose beautiful and sad born face to face did not seem as scary scenes,
infused us all mysterious burning, only the beam of his eyes.

"But God did not come out alive from the terrible strife. Seeing that it was not possible hostilities
to a ship by the bow bothered to San Juan with impunity, was himself to point the canyon and
managed dismast the contrary. Returned to the quarter-deck, where a cannonball hit him right
leg, with such success that the off almost more painful as the upper thigh. We ran to support
him, and the hero fell into my arms. How terrible time! I still think I feel under my hand
the violent beating of a heart, which until at that terrible moment, but did not beat the homeland.
His physical decline was very rapid: I saw him struggling to straighten
the head, he leaned on his chest, I saw him trying to revive with
a smile his face covered and a deadly pallor, while a voice hardly
altered, he exclaimed: This is nothing.

Follow the fire.

"Her spirit rebelled against death, hiding the sharp pain of a maimed body, whose rearward palpitations
were extinguished in seconds. Try to lower the camera, but was unable to wrest the castle. At
last, yielding to our prayer, he realized it was necessary to leave the command. Called Moyna,
his second, and said he was dead; called the commander of the first
battery, and this, though severely wounded, went to the castle and
took over the command.

"Since then the crew bailed: giant became dwarf disappeared value, and realized that it was essential
to surrender. The consternation that I was owned since I got in my arms the hero of San Juan,
I do not see the terrible prevented effect caused in the minds of all of this misfortune.
As if a sudden paralysis moral and physical crew had invaded and they were all frozen and
mute, without the pain caused by the loss of dear man gave rise to
the embarrassment of surrender.

"Half the people were dead or wounded, most of the guns removed, the masts, except the foremast
had fallen, and the rudder was not working. In so pitiful state, still wanted to make an effort to
follow the Prince of Asturias, who had raised the sign of withdrawal, but the Nepomuceno,
mortally wounded, could not govern in any direction. And despite the ruin and destruction of the ship,
despite the dismay of the crew despite to attend our damage such
unfavorable circumstances, none of the six English ships dared to
try an approach.

Feared for our ship, even after they quit.

"Churruca, in a paroxysm of his agony, he ordered the flag stick and not to give the ship while he
lived. The period could not but be unfortunately very short, because Churruca was dying in a hurry, and
those who assisted him that asombrábamos we still encourage a body in such a state, and was thus
kept him strength of spirit, attached to irresistible commitment to life, because for him at
that time life was a duty. Did not lose consciousness until the final moments, did not complain
of pain or regret for his end was near; Rather, every effort was above all that the officers
did not know the severity your state, and any failure in its duty. He thanked the crew for
their heroic behavior, addressed some words to his brother Ruiz de Apodaca, and after dedicate
a memorial to his young wife, and raise the thoughts to God, whose name we hear softly spoken
several times by his dry lips, ended with the peace of just and the strength of heroes, without
the satisfaction of victory, but also without resentment of the defeated; involving the duty
to dignity, and making the discipline a religion as a military strong, serene as a man, without
uttering a complaint, or accuse anyone with such dignity in death as in life. We beheld his body
still warm, and we seemed to lie, we thought we had to wake up to send back, and we had to cry
less fortitude than he to die, for the expiry took all the courage, the whole enthusiasm that
had inspired us.

"Rindiose the San Juan, and when the officers boarded the six ships that had shattered, each
intended for himself the honor of receiving the sword of the dead brigadier. Everyone said,
"has surrendered to my ship," and played for a while claiming the honor of victory for either
of the vessels belonged. Commander wanted San Juan accidental decide the issue, saying which of
the English ships had surrendered, and he answered: "To all, which
one would never have given up the San Juan.

In the face of the corpse of the late Churruca, the English, who knew him by the fame of its value and
understanding, showed great distress, and one of them said this or something similar:

"Illustrious Men like this should not be exposed to the hazards of
combat, and other preserved for the advancement of the science of
navigation.

" After the funeral was arranged to make forming the British army and navy of the Spanish side,
and all their actions were Gentlemen, magnanimous and generous.

"The number of wounded on board the San Juan was so considerable that
transported us to other own ships, or prisoners.

       I happened to pass it, which has been among the most abused; but
they have it can be towed to Gibraltar before any other, because they
can not be to Trinidad, the largest and most coveted of our ships.

"

* * * * *

Malespina ended here, which was heard with deep attention during the story of what had witnessed.
From what I heard, I understand that on board each ship had been a tragedy so dreadful as that I had
witnessed, and said to me:

"How Disaster, Holy God, caused by the
stupidity of one man!".

And although I was then a boy, I remember thinking that: "A foolish
man can not do at any point in their lives the nonsense that sometimes
make the nations, led by hundreds men of talent.

"

-XIV-

Much of the night was spent with the relationship Malespina and other officials. Interest of those
stories kept me awake and so excited that I could not even long after sleep. I could not take
my mind the image of Churruca as I saw him safe and sound at home of Mrs. Flora. And indeed,
at that time had caused surprise me expressing the intense sadness
of the famous ocean's face, as if it presaged his painful and near
end.

Noble life that was extinguished at forty-four years old, after twenty-nine of honorable service
in the army, as wise, as a military and as navigator, because everything was Churruca, plus
perfect gentleman.

In these and other things I thought when my body finally gave in to fatigue, and I was asleep at
dawn on 23, having overcome my youth to my curious nature. During sleep, it must have been long
and not quiet, rather shaken by the images and nightmares characteristic of the excitement of
my brain, felt the roar of gunfire, the voices of the battle, the noise of the surging waves.
At the same time I dreamed that I was firing the pieces, that rose to the rigging, sweeping
the artillery batteries encouraging, and until commanded maneuver at the quarter-deck as an admiral.
Suffice to say that was at odds forged battle within my own brain, I beat all the English have
or might have, more easily than if your boat out of cardboard, and
bread crumb its bullets.

I had under my logo as a thousand ships, over all the Trinidad, and moved on a whim as accurately
as toys with my friends and I had fun in the puddles La Caleta.

But at last, all these glories faded, which, being as they were purely dream, no wonder, when
we see the real also vanish. It was over when I opened my eyes and I saw my littleness, associated
with the magnitude of disasters that had attended. But strange thing!, Awake, gunfire also felt, I
felt the awful rumor the fray, and shouts that heralded a major activity in the crew. I thought
I still dream; I sat on the couch where he slept, attended with care,
and, indeed, a thunderous Long live the King cry hurt my ears, leaving
no doubt that the ship was Santa Ana beating again.

I went outside, and I take care of the situation. The weather had calmed down considerably:
on the windward some ships were dismantled, and two of them British, were firing on the Santa Ana,
who defended under two others, one Spanish and one French.

I explained that sudden change in our situation of prisoners, looked aft and saw our flag floating
instead of English. What had happened?, Or rather, what happened?

In the quarter-deck was one that I knew was General Álava, and, though wounded in several parts
of his body, showed strong enough to run that second battle for perhaps to make people forget about
the Santa Ana misadventures of the first. The officers encouraged to the crew, it carried and
fired the pieces that had been serviceable, while some were engaged
in guarding, teniéndoles at bay, the English, who had been disarmed
and herded into the first deck.

The officers of this nation, formerly our guardians had become prisoners.

I understood it. The heroic commander of Santa Ana, D. Ignacio M. Alava, seeing Some Spanish ships were
approaching, coming out of Cadiz, in order to dam ships prisoners and save the crew of the wrecked
near, went with patriotic language his dejected crew. This responded to the voice of his boss
with a supreme effort, forced to surrender to the British who were guarding the ship, again
hoisted the Spanish flag, and Santa Ana was free, but engaged in
another struggle, perhaps more dangerous than first.

This singular audacity, one of the most honorable episodes of Trafalgar day is conducted in a dismasted
ship, rudderless, with half of its people killed or injured, and the remainder in a moral and
physical situation entirely regrettable. Was necessary, once consummated that act, addressing
its consequences: two English vessels, also very poor showing, made fire on the Santa Ana, but
it was promptly rescued by the Assisi, Montana and Lightning, three of which were removed with
Gravina day 21, and had gone out to rescue the imprisoned. Those noble invalid locked new
and desperate struggle, perhaps with more courage than the first,
because the wounds not trapped fuel the rage in the soul combatants,
and they seem to fall out with more zeal, because they have less life
to lose.

The incidents all the terrible day 21 were renewed in my eyes: the excitement was great; but
people are scarce, so it was necessary to duplicate the effort. Become so sensitive is that heroic
had been in our history more than a short page, if it is true that
with the great event is now known as the Battle of Trafalgar of these
episodes shrink and disappear almost as weak flashes in a horrific
night.

Then I witnessed an event that made me shed tears. Not finding my love for no hand, and fearing
to run any danger, I went down to the first battery and found him busy to point a gun. His trembling
hand had picked up the Botafuegos of a sailor injured and the weakened view of his right eye,
looking for the unfortunate point where I wanted to send the bullet.

When the piece is fired, he turned to me, trembling with joy, and
a voice that just I could understand, he said:

"Ah, now Paca not
laugh at me.

We will triumph in Cadiz. "

In short, the fight ended happily, because the British inability to
understand the of damming the Santa Ana, whom he favored, over the
three ships set, two and a French frigate, which arrived in the thick
of the fight.

We were free in the most glorious, but at the point at which concluded that feat, began to be
clear about the danger we were in, as the Santa Ana had to be towed to Cadiz, because of the
poor condition of its hull. The French frigate took a cable Themis steered north, but what that
force might have to tow another boat so heavy as the Santa Ana, and could only help with the
sails torn left in the club ratchet? The ships had rescued us, that is, the Lightning, Montana
and the San Francis of Assisi, later wanted to take his powers, and forced to sail to rescue also
to the San Juan and the Bahamas, which were marinated by the British. We were, therefore,
alone, without more shelter than the frigate that was dragging us, driving a giant child. What
would we be if the English, as expected, was recovering from his defeat and returned with new
reinforcements to haunt us? Meanwhile, it appears that Providence favored us because wind, conducive
to the progress that we had, drove to our frigate, and after her,
led lovingly, the ship was coming to Cadiz.

Five miles separated us from the port.

What unspeakable satisfaction!

Our troubles soon be completed and soon would put his foot on solid ground, and if we had
the news of major disasters, we had also happiness many who suffered fatal heart trouble believing
lost forever to returning alive and healthy.

The boldness of the Spanish ships was no more successful than the
rescue of Santa Ana, for I uploaded the time and had to retreat without
being able to chase the English ships that guarding the San Juan,
Bahama and San Ildefonso. Even four leagues of the term distábamos
of our trip when we go back. The storm had rages, and was general
opinion aboard the Santa Ana that if it took us to arrive, we would
spend very hard time