 

THE MULE AND THE OX

CHRISTMAS CAROL

I

He stopped complaining about
the poor girl, shook her head, fixing his eyes sad people around his
bed extinguióse Gradually his breath, and expired.

The Guardian Angel, giving a sigh, took flight and went away.

The unhappy mother did not believe much trouble, but the very pretty face was getting Celinina
yellow and transparent as wax enfriáronse its members, and was stiff
and hard as the body a doll.

Then taken out of the bedroom to the mother, the father and the most immediate relatives, and two
or three friends and the servants were engaged in fulfilling the last duty to the poor girl
dead.

The rich wore batiste dress, white skirt and light as a cloud, all
full lace and curls that resemble foam.

They placed the shoes, just white and also lightly worn the sole sign of having taken few steps,
and then wove, with wonderful dark brown hair, graceful braids bound with blue ribbons. Flowers
sought, but not finding them for being so inappropriate of them the season, spun a beautiful
wreath with fabric flowers, choosing the most beautiful and most seemed to brought real fresh
roses in the garden.

A nasty man brought a box slightly larger than a violin, lined with
blue silk silver braid, and trimmed in white satin.

Celinina to put in holding its beautiful and soft head pillow, for in stance was not violent,
then that settled well in his funeral couch, crossed his little hands and tie with ribbon, and between
them put him a bouquet of white roses, so ably made by the artist, daughters appeared the same
in April.

Then those women covered with colorful table cloths, arranged as an
altar and she was placed on the box.

In a short time put together a canopy mode church with rich white curtains, as set out bravely
to either side, brought from other parts number of saints and images, which neatly distributed
on the altar as forming angel funeral home court late, and without loss of time, fired some dozens
of lights in the great chandeliers of the room, which, around Celinina, shed very sad clarity.
After repeatedly kissing the cheeks of the poor ice girl were terminated his pious work.

II

There in the depths of the house, sounded groans of men and women.

It was the sad lament parents, who could not be convinced of the truth of the aphorism angels
to heaven, Friends moral administered as a painkiller such trances. Parents believed then
that the true and own abode of the angels is the earth and could not support the theory that
is much more lamentable and disastrous death of large than small. Felt, mixed his pain, profound
pity that inspires the agony of a child, not understood that no penalty exceed those that tore her
womb.

Thousand painful memories and images were wounded, taking the form of daggers that were excruciating
pierced the heart. The mother heard endlessly charming half Celinina language, saying things upside
down, and making the words of our language funny cartoons philological that flowed from her pretty
mouth as the earliest music that can touch the heart of a mother. Nothing characterizes a child
as his style, the one true way to express themselves and say all four letters, and grammar that
prehistoric, like the first wailing of the word at the dawn of humanity, and the simple art of declensions
and conjugations, the correction appears language innocent regularized by the application. The vocabulary
of a child of three years, Celinina, is the literary treasure families. How could I forget lengüecita
mother that rag, he called the hat Tumey and chickpea babancho?

To add insult to misery, the good lady saw everywhere the objects that Celinina his last days
were elated, and as they were the ones that precede Christmas, rolled down soil clay turkey
legs Wire, a San Jose without hands, a manger with Baby God, like a pink ball, a mounted Wise
arrogant camel without head. What these poor figures had suffered in recent days, trailed here
and there, put in this or in other words, only God, mom and the pure spirit who had flown
to heaven knew.

The broken sculptures were impregnated, so to speak, the soul of Celinina, or dressed, if you
will, of a singular clarity very sad, that was the clarity of it. The poor mother looking at them,
shaking all, feeling wounded in the most delicate and sensitive of his inner self. Strange alliance
of things! I cried those pieces of clay! Full looked like an intense grief, and so painful,
that his view alone produced as much bitterness as the show of the same creature dying, he looked with
pleading eyes to his parents and asked them to take from this horrible pain in his forehead,
seared! The saddest thing in the world was that the mother turkey with wire legs stuck in clay
tablet, and in his frequent changes in posture had lost the peak and mucus.

III

But if the situation was distressing spirit of the mother, Eral
much of the father.

It pain was transferred, in this, the pain was aggravated by an excruciating remorse. We will Basking
briefly noting that this case may seem extremely childish to some, But those who believe that, I remember
that nothing is as childish as he led intimate and pure pain, those in which there is any mixture
of land interests, nor secondary affliction of selfishness is not satisfied.

Since Celinina fell ill, he felt the desire of the parties that are
most happy poetry to the children: the Christmas holidays.

Everyone knows with what longing desire the arrival of these cheerful days, and how it disrupts
the feverish desire for the gifts, births, and hopes of much eating and gorging on turkey, marzipan,
sugared almonds and nougat. Some are believed capable with the greatest ingenuity, stuffing it into
their stomachs as hold the Plaza Mayor and streets adjacent.

Celinina, improvement in his spare time, he kept his mouth the theme
of Easter and their cousins, who would accompany him, were older and
knew all there is to know about gifts and births, is more fantasy
ruffling the poor girl listening to them, and more were turned on
their possessiveness candy and toys.

Delirious, when put it in the oven of martyrdom fever, he kept that name so occupied his mind, and
it was hit drums, strumming zambombas, singing carols. In the dark area around his mind, there
were only making clau clau turkeys, chickens screaming peep; mountains coming nougat the sky
in an almond Guadarrama; births full of lights and had at least Fifty billion figures, candy
bouquets, trees laden with many toys can devise the most fertile imagination zip, the pond
filled Retiro almond soup; bream that looked to the cooks with their eyes are set, descending
from the sky orange, falling in more abundance than water droplets in day time, and a thousand other
wonders without number or measure.

IV

The father, having no smaller than Celinina, not beside himself with restless and uneasy. His
business called him away from home, but often went into it to see
how was the little patient.

The evil continued their march with treacherous alternatives: sometimes
giving hope remediation, other removing them.

The good man had sad forebodings. The Celinina bed, overwhelmed with the sweet person it by fever
and pain, not away from his imagination.

Attentive to what might contribute to rejoice the spirit of the girl, every night, he returned to
the house, brought him a gift of Easter, always changing the subject and species, but apart
Always treat all. She brought him one day a flock of turkeys, so true to facts, they do not
needed was squawking, another day out of their pockets half of the Holy Family, and Next to
San Jose with the manger and stable in Bethlehem. Then came a gorgeous sheep gallant shepherds
who led them, and then was accompanied by a laundry that washed; and a selling chorizo ??sausage,
and a black Magus, which was subsequently followed beard white gold crown. For bringing up an
old woman who was brought in some part to flogging a guy for not knowing the lesson.

Celinina knowledgeable, so talking her cousins, all you need to good composition a birth, knew
that that work was incomplete because of the lack of two figures
very main: the mule and the ox.

She did not know what that meant that neither the mule ox but aware that all things were perfect,
and again demanded the attentive father the pair of animals that had been in Santa Cruz.

He promised to bring, and his heart was very firm intention not to return without both beasts
but that day, which was 23, the issues and tasks will be increased
so that no had a rest point.

Besides this, he sacase Heaven that the lottery, which had news of winning a lawsuit that two
loving friends pregnant you all morning ... finally, the father entered the house without the
mule, but without the beef.

Celinina showed great sorrow at not coming to complete his treasure
only two missing jewelry in it.

The father wanted to remedy its failure point, but the baby had been aggravated considerably
during the day the doctor came, and as his words were not reassuring nobody thought of oxen, but also
on mules.

The 24 decided not to move the poor man of the house. Celinina was a relief for a short time
so evident, that all hopes conceived, and full of joy, the father said, "I point to find that.
"

But like a wounded bird falls rapidly to soar to the top, and fell Celinina Honduras in an intense
fever. Stirring trembling arms and smothered in hot of the disease, the shaking to expel constrained
life. In the confusion of his delirium, and the churning waves of thought, floated, as the only
object saved of a disaster, the fixed idea of ??desire that had not been satisfied, in that
coveted sighed one mule and ox, which is still continuing in a state
of hope.

The father went half mad, he ran through the streets, but in the middle of one of them stopped and
said: "Who thinks now of birth figures?"

And running here and there, up stairs, and rang bells, and opened
doors without stand a moment, until he had put together seven or eight
doctors, and took them to his house.

It was necessary save to Celinina.

V

But God did not want seven or eight (as the figure is not known to fixed point) pupils Aesculapius
contravene the sentence he was given, and Celinina was falling, falling more every hour, and
came to be despondent, burning, fighting with indescribable anguish,
as Butterfly has been hit and shakes the ground with broken wings.

Parents knelt beside her foolish eagerly, as if they wanted to look at the sheer force of stop
that there was going to suspend the rapid human disruption, and its encouragement renew the
breath of the poor martyr who vanished in a flash.

Sounded in the street zambombas drums and tambourines and happy snapping. Celinina opened eyes, which seemed
closed for ever, looked at his father, and his eyes and just murmur
that did not seem serious and language come to this world, his father
asked what he had not wanted to bring.

Pain pierced his father and mother wanted to deceive, to I had a joy in that moment of supreme
grief, and offering the turkeys, he said: - "Look, daughter of my soul, here's your mule, and
the little oxen. "

But Celinina, even running out, had enough clarity in their understanding to see that turkeys
were nothing more than turkeys, and graceful gesture rejected. This was followed with staring
at their parents, and both hands on the head pointing his sharp pains.

Little by little was extinguished in it that are rhythmic, which is the last vibration of life,
and finally all was silent, as silent machine clock stops, and was a pretty nice Celinina bulk,
inert and cold as marble, white and clear as the purified wax that burns altars.

Do you understand now the guilt of the father? Because Celinina about life, it would He traversed
the whole earth to collect all the oxen and all, absolutely all mules
in it.

The idea of ??not having fulfilled that desire was innocent sword
sharp and cold that pierced his heart.

In vain the reason I wanted to tear it, but What was the reason, if he was so young then as he
slept in the coffin, and gave more importance to a toy to all the things of earth and sky?

VI

In the house were turned off in the end the rumors of despair, as if pain, penetrating in the soul,
which is their own home, shut the doors of the senses to be more alone and recreate itself.

It was "Good Night, and if everything was silent in the house recently visited sad death outside
on the streets of the city, and all the other houses, pleasant ringing Bullange of rude instruments
of music, and spokesman for kids and adults singing the Messiah. From the room where the child
was dead, the holy women who heard him company frightful din, that
through the upstairs floor came up to them, troubled in their grief
and devout meditation.

Up there, many young children, gathered the largest number big kids and happy parents and
aunts and uncles cheering, celebrating Easter, crazy joy at the most admirable figure was given
birth, and attentive to the fruit of toys and sweets in their leafy tree branches carrying a
spotlight with thousands of colorful lights.

There were times when the big bang up, seemed to tremble roof the
room, and that the poor dead woman was shaking in their blue box and
the lights all ranged, as if, on his way meant to imply they were
also something Peneque.

Of the three women who served, retired two, was one, and this, great feeling in your head weight,
no doubt due to the fatigue caused by many sleepless nights, touched his chest with his chin
and fell asleep.

The lights continued swinging and moving much, notwithstanding that no air entered the room.
You'd think invisible wings fluttered in the space occupied by the altar. Slots on Dress Celinina
also moved, and the leaves of artificial flowers over announced playful breeze or a very soft
hand. Celinina then opened his eyes.

Her black eyes filled the room with a look alive and eager to cast around and top to bottom. Immediately,
hands separated without rebel against the tape that bound, and closing both fists rubbed their
eyes, as is usual in children to wake up.

Then he sat up with fast-moving, without effort, and looking the ceiling began to laugh, but
his laughter, with our eyes, could not be heard.

The only rumor which is easily perceived bullanga wing was strongly agitated, as if all the
pigeons the world were coming and going in the mortuary and will rub their feathers with the
roof and walls.

Celinina stood up, arms extended upward, and to the point you were
born little wings short and white.

Beating the air with them, took wing and disappeared.

All remained the same: the lights burning, and pour copious streams of white wax on washers and
the images on the site itself, without moving your arm or leg or deploy his austere lips, the
woman calmly sunk in a dream that was saberle to glory, all remained the same, minus the blue
box, which had been emptied.

VII

Beautiful party tonight at the House of Lords -----!

The drums scream deafeningly the room. There is none to those gnarly guys understand that more
fun renouncing the infernal racket of that instrument of war. So that no human ear is in a state
of work the next day, add the invention of the drum Averno, called zambomba, whose noise resembles
Satan growls. Complete the symphony tambourine awful squeal calderetería which stirs old calmer
nerves. And But this discordant din no melody and no rhythm, more primitive than the music of the
wild, is happy in aquesta singular night, and has some distant celestial choir chant.

Birth is not a work of art in the eyes of adults, but children are so much beauty in the figures,
so mystical expression on the faces of them all, and property much
in their suits, they do not believe is out of the hands of men most
perfect work, and attributed to the peculiar industry of certain angels
dedicated to work for a living mud.

The portal of cork, imitating a Roman arch in ruins, is cute, and the creek represented by a
little mirror with green spots that mimic aquatic weeds and moss the banks, seems to run the table
below with placid murmur. The bridge where Pastors spend is such that has never been so similar
to the master stone on the contrary what happens in many modern works of our engineers, which
makes bridges stone that look like cardboard. The mountain that occupies the center be confused with
a piece of the Pyrenees, and its beautiful houses, smaller than the figures, and trees with
figurative evónimus twigs, leaves behind the very nature.

The plain is where the most beautiful and most characteristic figures, the laundresses who washed
in the stream, the paver and smugglers driving their herds, a leading civil guard two rogues prisoners,
knights riding in luxurious camel barouches next to a King Magician and Parrot the blind playing
guitar in a huddle where the shepherds browse have become the portal. For medium to medium,
a tram passes him just what the neighborhood of Salamanca, and as you have two rails and wheels,
every moment you are running from east to west to the astonishment
of the Black King, do not know what this devilish machine.

In front of the Portal is a lovely square, whose center is occupied
by a flask of fish and not far from where she sells a boy's pick,
and dance gently two nice.

The old selling fritters and chestnut on the corner are the funniest parts of this wonderful
village of mud, and preferably by themselves attract the eyes of the children crowd. Above all, this
little boy in a tattered hand has a lottery ticket, and the another robs the chestnuts out of the
basket nicely to Aunt Lambrijas ago cackle them all.

In short, the birth number one in Madrid is that of the house, one of the main and collected in their
classrooms to children nicest and most thoughtful of twenty streets around.

VIII

Well what about the tree? Consists of branches of oak and cedar. The solicitous friend of the
house has made with great difficulty, he states that he never left his hands so complete and perfect
work. You can not have outstanding gifts of their leaves. Are under the assumption of a little
boy was present, in greater number than the sands of the sea. Sweets wrapped in paper shells
Curly, mandarins, who are infants oranges, chestnuts tucked into blankets silver paper, boxes
containing confectionery homeopathic globules, various figurines
on foot and on horseback, as God hath created to be perfected what
then mayonnaise or sell it Scropp has been put there by a hand so
generous and skillful.

Lit that tree footlights life in such abundance that, as a guest
ratio of four years there are more lights than stars in the sky.

The joy of children swarm can not be compared to any human feeling: the joy ineffable heavenly
choirs in the presence of the Supreme Good and Beauty Addition. Superabundance satisfaction
almost makes them wise, and are as perplexed in seraphic rapture
with all the soul in his eyes, savoring in advance what they eat,
and swimming, as blessed angels, pure ether of things sweet and delicious,
sweet-smelling flowers and cinnamon, in the uncreated essence of the
game and treat.

IX

But suddenly felt a rumor that came from them. Everyone looked at the ceiling, and as did not
see anything, he looked from one to the other, laughing. Could hear loud murmur of wings brushing
against the wall and crashing into the ceiling. If you were blind,
would have believed that all pigeon pigeons of all the universe had
gone into the room. But they saw nothing, absolutely nothing.

Noticed,
yes, suddenly, something inexplicable and phenomenal. All of the Nativity
figurines moved, all without noise varied from site. The tram car
went up to the top of the mountains, and the Kings put the legs in
the creek. The turkeys were cast without permission in Portal, and
San Jose went all embarrassed, as if to know the origin of such strange
confusion. Afterwards, many figures were lying on the ground. If at
first the translations are made no mess, then put together a racket
such that there seemed to walk one hundred thousand plodding hands
to mix it up. It was a miniature universal cataclysm