 It contained
more than a single line, written in pencil with feminine handwriting.

"Wait for the corral with boghey at three."

Moreno was stirred restlessly and finally woke up.

- James! Are you there?

- Yes.

I beg do not leave yet.

Now dreaming, dreaming of times past, Susan and I got married again
and the priest, James, was ... Do you know who it was?

You!

Melin laughed and sat on the bed, with the paper in the toes.

- Is
it a good sign? - Asked Moreno.

- I think: Say, man, would not it
be better to get up?

Calaveras Moreno rose with the help of the hand that offered Melin.

- I think you smoke.

Moreno took the cigar which mechanically stretched.

- Fire?

James rolled the letter spiral, lit it and offered him his friend.

He remained with her in fingers, until he had consumed, and pulled
out that as the shining star, fell window below.

Followed him by sight and then turned to Moreno.

- My friend - said putting his hands on the shoulders of his friend, - I stand in six minutes on
the road and I fade away as the flame.

Not meet again, but before I leave take the advice of a madman.

Have settled everything and take your wife away from this site.

Not the place for you or for her. Tidings that must go: to compel them to leave, if not you
willingly.

Do not regret not being a Socrates or her an angel. Remember that If you treat her like a
man and a woman. Do not be stupid. Abur.

Desprendiose Moreno's arms and jumped down the stairs like a deer. Once on the block took the
boy asleep in the middle neck and pushed him against the wall.

- Put the saddle my horse instantly, or you ...

The dilemma was terrible and easy to understand.

- The woman said
she hooked boghey for you - stammered the unhappy.

- To hell with
boghey!

The thrush was saddled as fast as the nervous hands of the astonished boy could drive belts
and buckles.

The boy, who, like all his class, admired the thrust of his fiery patron, and really was interested
in their fate could not but ask:

- Is there anything, sir?

- Get out of there!

The waiter turned away shyly. There was a whip and a blasphemy, James kicked the horse and walking and
tended to trot.

A moment later, the sleepy eyes of the young man was only a small cloud shifting dust on the
horizon to where a star, separated from her sisters, leaving a trail bright.

The inhabitants on the banks Wingdam Road, heard at dawn as a vibrant
voice the lark singing over the plain.

Those who slept rough were stirred in their beds to dream of youth,
love and life.

Rough peasants face and eager seekers gold, already at work, ceased their labors and leaned
upon their picks to listen to this romantic adventurer, noting in
light of the rosy dawn, he rode to step Castilian.

CAROLINA

(Episode of Fiddletown)

I

In the town of Fiddletown was regarded worldwide as a beautiful woman. His good figure, highlighted
by a mop of brown hair splendid characterized by a beautiful color and a certain languid grace which
lent him a something interesting and distinguished. Dressed Always taste and Fiddletown was the
rage. He had only two flaws: a its velvety eyes, examined closely, deviating slightly, and
stained his cheek left a small scar caused by a drop of vitriol, a happily single whole bottle that
had cast a jealous rival, with the malicious intent to disfigure Jerne so beautiful. However,
when the observer reached to notice the irregularity of look, it was usually unable to criticize
it and there were some who claimed that the stain on his cheek he added more charm and grace.
The young editor of The Avalanche, of Fiddletown, argued privately that it was a hidden dimple
and Colonel Roberto reminded freckles tempting time of Queen Anne, and especially to one of the
most beautiful damn women and, yes, damn them! they never have been
fixed in human eyes.

Was a native of New Orleans. This woman had a scar, one that crossed seams (a faith that is
true), from the right eye to mouth. And this woman, friend, we penetrated to a ... friend, you
crazy ... actually condemned him with his damn soul fascination. A day I said:

- Celeste, how the hell you did that damn scar? To which I replied:

- Roberto, no more white than you would tell, this scar me I made with all intention, I did
me the same, faith.

These were his own words can you make them for a grand deception, but I can bring all the evidence
that is true.

Fiddletown male population was or had been in love with her mostly. Of this number, as one-third
believed that their love was reciprocated, with the exception of his own husband remained some
doubt about it.

The gentleman who enjoyed this unhappy distinction called Galba. He had divorced of his excellent
wife to marry Fiddletown siren. This also was divorced, but whispering some previous experience of
this legal formality made it less innocent and perhaps more selfish, but it is less concluded that
it lacked tenderness or that he was free of the highest moral sentiment. One of his admirers wrote
to mark the second divorce, "the selfish world still does not understand Clara ', and Col.
Robert noted that, except for a single woman Opeludas Parish, Louisiana, had more soul her that all
the remaining gray female. And in truth, few could read those verses graduates "Infelicissimus"
which began: "Why waves no cypress on this front?" Published first time in The Avalanche,
under the signature of Lady Clara, without feeling his eyelids tremble a tear of poetry anointing.
Blood lit generous indignation at the thought that Next week the News of Dutch Flat, answered
the question with a joke tender poor and brutal, stating that the cypress is an exotic and completely
unknown in the flora of the region.

Precisely this tendency to produce feelings in metrical form, and deliver intelligent world through
the press, was what first attracted the attention of Galba, in those days drove a car with six
mules transport between Knight's Ferry and Stocktown. So, impressed by a poem describing the effect of the
customs of California on a sensitive soul and vague aspirations to infinity of a generous breast
view dismal picture of the Californian company, decided to seek the neglected muse. Galba
believed also felt in his soul the secret vibrations of a higher aspiration that could meet
in the trade of liquor and snuff that provided farmers and miners camps. After a series of events that
this is not the occasion to relate, wine a brief courtship so brief
that it was consistent with the previous legal formalities, the married,
Galba and brought his blushing bride or Fideletown Fiddletown, as
Madame de Galba preferred call in his poems.

They were very happy in the new state. Galba soon discovered that the rosy ideals who conceived while
their mules traginaba between Stocktown and Knight's Ferry, nothing in common had with his
wife who inspired contemplation of the fate of California and his
own spirit.

Perhaps for this reason, the good man, who was not very strong in logic, sticking his wife,
and as she was not very strong in terms of reasoning, let himself be led by same principle to
certain infidelities. Then Galba took to drink and the lady to work
regularly in the columns of The Avalanche.

On this occasion, when Colonel Robert discovered in the poetry of Ms. Galba a resemblance to the
genius of Sappho, and pointed to the citizens of Fiddletown in a critical two-column signed
'AS', which was also published in The Avalanche, supported by extensive quotations from the
classics. Not possessing the Avalanche a collection of characters Greeks, the editor was forced
to play the verses leucádeos in plain Roman with great disgust of Colonel Robert and immense
joy of Fiddletown, who accepted the text as an excellent imitation of Choctaw, Indian language
family that was supposed to colonel as resident in the wild territories. Indeed, the news of the week
following contained some very free verse, in response to the poem
of modern Sappho, which were attributed the wife of a head-red skin,
followed by a brilliant eulogy signed "ASS"

[12]

The consequences of this prank has outlined a future issue of The Avalanche. "Yesterday, said,
there was an unfortunate set against the Eureka room, among the worthy John Flash, the News of
Dutch Flat, and the well-known Colonel Roberto.

Cambiáronse two shots, but contenders would suffer harm, although it says that a Chinese who
was unfortunately passed several buckshot in the calves that came from the double-barreled
shotgun of colonel. So learn John [13] to be, hereinafter, away from firearms. Unaware of the cause
leading to the set, although whispers among those who are supposed
to be better aware that the immediate source of grief, was a well
known and beautiful poetess, whose productions often have graced the
columns of our publication.

"

The passive attitude adopted by Galba in these trying circumstances,
it was noted with all its value in the camps.

- There can be no better
game - said a philosopher of high boots and Herculean arms .-- If
Colonel Flash kills, come to Mrs. Galba, if Colonel Flash tomb, Galba
is avenged in stead.

So with a game that you can not miss.

Delicate situation that was exploited by the lady of Galba to leave the house her husband and
took refuge in the Hotel Fiddletown, with only the clothes they wore.

Remained there a few weeks, during which time, it is fair to acknowledge that he behaved with
the strictest modesty.

A beautiful spring morning, the poet left the hotel and walked down an alley toward the strip
of dark pines that limited Fiddletown. At that early hour scarce transients that ran through the
town, stopped at the other end of the street to see output Wingdam diligence, and Lady Clara reached
the outskirts of the mining camp no one would notice it. There he took a side street running
at right angles with the main street of Fiddletown and penetrating
in the area of ??pine forest.

Was no certainly the only avenue aristocratic people, the houses were few, presumptuous and uninterrupted
by shops or stores. There she was joined Colonel Roberto.

The gallant Colonel swollen, despite the peaceful demeanor usually distinguished him, his coat
closely girded their tight boots and cane that hung on his arm, swung
jauntily, was not all him.

However, Lady Clara was pleased to welcome with a friendly smile and a dangerous look in his eyes,
and the colonel, with a forced cough and strutting, was placed on the left.

- The road is expedient - .-- Galba said Col. Dutch Flat has gone for a walk, there is in the house
rather than the Chinese and you should not fear trouble of any kind. I - continued a slight dilation
of the breast, which endangered the safety of the buttons of his coat, - I take care to protect
it so that you can recover what is fair.

- You are very good and selfless - stammered the lady as they continued their march .-- It so
nice to find a man of heart, a person with whom to sympathize in
a so hardened and insensitive society like the one we have had in
luck!

...

And Lady Clara looked down, but not before he had produced the usual effect on passenger.

- Indeed, indeed - said the colonel, looking askance restless over
two Shoulders: - yes, really.

Not noticing, then, nobody to see or listen, then proceeded to inform Lady Clear that the greatest
sorrow of his life had been full to possess a soul too big. Countless women, whose name, as
a gentleman, he did not mention clinics, many women had offered his beautiful love, but lacking
in all that quality could not correspond in any way. But when two natures united by sympathy
despise concerns also low and vulgar and conventional restraints of society hypocritical,
when two hearts in perfect harmony meet and mingle in sweet poetic communion ...

But here the colonel's speech, which felt the influence of liquor, is clouded to be unintelligible
and incoherent. May be that Lady Clara had heard in cases like something similar and were therefore
willing to supply the omissions and inconsistencies the mature beau. Anyway, the couple's cheeks
flush the colonel kept Therefore virginal shyness until they both came at the end of their journey.

Represented
the end of the tour but a nice small villa recently bleached and highlighted in nice contrast
on a group of pines, some of whose first rows had been removed to make way for a symmetrical
wall around jardinito. Plated sunlight and in complete silence, had the appearance of new and
vacant, as if it had of carpenters and painters leave.

In the middle of the garden, digging a Chinese imperturbable, but
the house was no other sign of life.

The road, as he said the colonel, was really expeditious and Mrs. Galba stood by the gate. The
colonel had come with her, but he stopped with a gesture.

- Searching again in two hours and I have done my luggage - said holding out his hand and with
a half smile on his lips.

Estrechola Asiola Colonel and enthusiastically. Perhaps the pressure was slightly reciprocated
as the gallant colonel away cupping her breast and triumphant passage, as vigorous as permitting
the narrowness and high heels of her boots.

When he was away conveniently Lady Clara opened the door, listened for a moment from the empty
input, and then rose the ladder quickly, up to his old room.

The appearance of the room had not changed since the night of his
escape.

His hat, above the vanity, as he recalled having left to take his
hat on the chimney a glove I had forgotten in her flight, the two
bottom drawers of the dresser parted (no care of closing) and pin
the chest and a dirty fist resting on the marble the table.

I do not know what other memories occurred to him, but suddenly turned pale, trembled and listened
with a beating heart and hand in the door, he approached the mirror,
and between shy and curious, he separated the strands of blond hair,
his rosy ear, discovering an ugly wound licked it yet.

Contemplola long time, raised her head indignantly, and diversion
of their velvet eyes deepened.

Then he turned, and laughed, carefree and determined ran to the closet where hung her beautiful
clothes, and the inspected with visible excitement.

Suddenly, he saw that was missing from its usual hanger a black silk,
and felt faint, but found out a moment later, lying on a suitcase,
where she had thrown herself.

For the first time, grateful to be dismayed top protects troubled.

Then, even when time pressed, could not resist tempted to try the mirror the effect of a lavender-colored
ribbon on the jacket he wore at the time. Suddenly he heard a voice
beside him children, and stopped nervous.

The voice repeated:

- Mom! Mom!

Ms. Galba turned suddenly.

Jumping on the door was a girl of six to seven years.

His dress, elegant in its heyday, was torn and dirty, and hair despeluznado
and a deep red, was a lively comic touch on his head.

Yet Thus, the girl was cute. A certain air of confidence that often characterizes children who were
thought long abandoned, was breaking through his childhood shyness. Underarm brought a doll made
of rags, apparently self-made, and almost as big as she, a cylindrical
head doll features crudely drawn.

A long shawl that visibly belonged to an older person fell from his
shoulders sweeping parquet.

This unexpected visit did not please the lady of Galba. The girl, still standing in the doorway,
asked again:

- Is it Mom?

Then answered dryly:

- No, not mom.

And took a hard look at arrapiazo.

The girl backed away and then getting the distance value, said in
his speech Feature:

- Go, then.

"Poker is not your clams?

Galba Mrs. leered shawl.

Suddenly, he ran to pull it from the shoulders the girl, and said angrily:

- Who sent you to take my things, shameless?

- Yours? So, you're my mom! Right? You're mama! - Continued child joy.

And before the Lady Clara could have been avoided, had already left wrist down, and grabbing
skirts with both hands, began to dance before her unparalleled nonchalance.

- What is your name? - Lady Clara said coldly, pulling off his clothes and not too small child's
hands clean.

- Tarolina.

- Tarolina?

- Ci ... Tarolina.

- Carolina?

- Ci ... Tarolina.

- "Who are you? - Even more coldly asked to stifle a nascent fear.

- Wow! I'm your girl - the child said smiling .-- You are my mother, my new mom. Do not zabez, zabez
not my other mom is gone and not coming back? I no longer live with my other mom. Now I have
to live with Dad and you.

- "How long have you been here? - Moody asked Lady Clara.

- I think
three days ago - Carolina answered after a pause.

- Do you agree?
Not sure? - Lady Clara said sarcastically .-- Well, where did you
come?

Carolina's eyes began to blink on this lively discussion. With
great effort suppressed her tears, held back a sob and said:

- Dad
... Dad brought me home ... Miss Simmons Sacramento, last week.

-
What! You just said three days ago - said it severely.

- I meant
a month - then said Carolina, completely lost in his confusion and
ignorance.

- Do not know what you're fishing - loudly exclaimed Lady
Clara, resisting the impulse to shake the little figure before him
and precipitating the truth by means of a purely material.

The blonde
head suddenly disappeared in the folds of the dress of Madame de Galba
as efforts to extinguish the color of her cheeks burned.

- Stop your
whining - Lady Clara said her dress fighting the wet kisses girl and
end up feeling upset .-- Come, enjúgate face, go and be comfortable.
Listen - continued when he left Carolina .-- Where is your dad?

-
Also has game ... He is sick ... He left ... (Here he hesitated) for
two or three days.

- Who cares for you, girl? - Lady Clara said staring
at her.

- John, Chinese. I vizto Zola, John makes the food and arranged
the beds.

- Go, then, behave yourself and do not bother me anymore
- Lady Clara said remembering the reason for visit .-- Wait, where
are you going? - said while the girl, dragging behind him a long wrist
gripped by the leg, was preparing to climb the ladder.

- I'm going
up to play and be good and do not annoy mom.

- I'm not your mom!
- Shouted the aforementioned, and then quickly returned to her bedroom
and slammed the door.

Continuing preparations, took the fourth wardrobe
a big trunk and began packing their anger and rage baggage quickly.
Tore her best dress to remove the peg and twice the soft hands were
scratched with hidden pins, while mentally commented outraged that
the incident occurred. Ah! then I understood everything. Her husband
was premeditated brought this child from his first wife, this child
whose existence has never seemed to care for insult, to take his place.
Undoubtedly, the first woman in person would soon there, or maybe
have a third woman with red hair, not brown but red. Naturally, the
girl, Caroline, looked like his mother, and so I would be anything
but pretty. Perhaps the entanglement was prepared in advance, perhaps
he was this girl with red hair, like her mother, in Sacramento, at
a convenient distance, and ready to bring it whenever appropriate.
He then recalled the frequent trips due, as he said, to businesses.
Perhaps the mother was also there, but no, he had gone to the East.
However, in its current state of mind, preferred to rest on the idea
that there was. She felt a vague satisfaction in exaggerating mood.
Surely that had never been abused as a scandalous manner women. Concluded
the picture of your misfortune. He lay alone and abandoned, to the
sunset falls amid columns of a ruined temple in graceful attitude
even melancholy while her husband was away quickly, a woman with red
hair, strutting beside him in a luxurious carriage drawn by a magnificent
torso. Supported by suitcase just fill, composed of the dismal plan
poem of his misfortune. Abandoned, alone and poorly dressed, we found
with her husband and the other, beaming with silks and jewels. Fancied
himself own consumptive dying because of their grief, but still beautiful
and fascinating to ruin their glances rearward to the Director of
the Avalanche and Colonel Roberto, who watched with effusive passion
... "But where I was, meanwhile, Colonel Roberto