 

XIII

The doctor recommended Montifiori was a Catholic, from all points
of view; member two or three religious brotherhoods, he knew reconcile,
as anyone Mass one day happy with dinner one night, the host of the
sacred altar fragrant with seafood Café de Paris.

At home they knew how to paint the aristocratic high pitched clerical eighteenth century. Enough take
a quick look at his small bookstore amateur, to know the fine tastes
man.

Among the literary truffle Brantôme, Casanova and others in the genre, Bossuet and Massillon,
kept the severity of the rows, in points, De Laharpe, M. Bonald, Fontanes and Chateaubriand,
gave the bass note of the empire, while next door, on issues cute, shining all day scented pornographic
obscenities.

The death of my unforgettable Aunt Dona Medea had thrown the world
a widower preserved, rich and large external qualities: my uncle.

Two months after her widowhood, living together: I had left my old comrade, Don Benito. Soon
the house of my uncle Ramon transformed into a completely different room than it had been. There
was a Meeting gay singles and married emancipated from all ages, had money to spare, and therefore
there were many cheerful meals, wines, entertainment of all kinds and the friendly element:
women.

In one day, Don Benito, the pitcher of my uncle, lay or place him
charitably by Hence all the old mulaterío deceased.

Alexander was tolerated only on loan from Don Benito whose service was from his famous collision
with my aunt. The house was transformed: all household items from prehistoric times Pavón was amended
by a modern furniture more correct to contemporary taste. The old family portraits were to
cover the walls in recent quarters, including my aunt, who had reigned twenty years in the main
wall the room.

My uncle Ramón very soon began mourning and gave the world, entirely
to the world, but always weak to the temptations of the flesh, his
seventy million dollars very soon came to be in the conditions for
real in front of a school.

The doctor was the first Montifiori to notice that my uncle was a party, but how, by what means
to start the diplomatic campaign to achieve their ends?

The famous gummy thought, brooded a lot, until one day he hit his forehead with hand, as the man
who has found the solution to a problem.

Thought Montifiori that he could not be Catholic to the rocket, not use their religious beliefs.

The
most influential man in Buenos Aires high society was Mr. Penseroso: an Abbe Greek, from Athens,
a very distinguished man, smooth as a lark, sharp and penetrating
as a needle: a martyr to his face, and an eye that showed off all
the agility of course and the depth that this priest was gifted.

Worthy in its treatment, its influence felt in the classroom, but it was the influence of a
shadow, never imposed by pressure or public events, its passage was like underground, latent,
but efficacious.

Launched my uncle after the death of his wife in a life of disorder for his age and its seriousness,
delayed, stung by the tarantula of theater artists and Dancers of
Columbus, the old man had his coat of the bull, as they say.

Montifiori understood from the outset that my uncle had a weakness to exploit and used as a means
Mr. Penseroso.

Fernanda salon was open for us every night. Don Benito reigned there as a tyrant. Some nights
I used to attend Mr. Penseroso, for whom my uncle had taken a lively
sympathy.

So sweet, so smooth was that most holy and virtuous father!

White made him all kinds of parties and affection to the ingratiating
Abbe: the next sentársele, creature, cold and impassive, turned an
affectionate cat with the priest: he kissed respectfully finger ring
encircled by the rule: he took the hat, she brought her Cup tea and
you put in your mouth candy Roverano some rich, with an indescribable
grace.

The Revenio priest and gave himself yielded to the charm.

White belonged to the Sisters of Saints, a company of girls, of which he was president and
which exerted a very great influence.

In this society going the hands of the Jesuits had made them its regulations discipline, in
which a spirit of inquiry preponderance complete: a booklet quiet,
a few leaves, which abounded transactions with the convenience of
modesty social and religious requirements, where the members were
uneasy virtue of men with their clothes and corporations, the occasions
on which it was lawful sheets, and I think even the bust line of the
neck could not happen.

Mr. White earned Penseroso, body and soul, and Mr. Penseroso, on the one hand, and Montifiori and
White on the other, besieged and surrendered to my uncle.

Soon Don Benito and I warned the consequences.

It was late, my uncle Ramon drooling by the pretty daughter of his
friend and began to society announce her marriage to her.

One day, however, we resolved to Don Benito to make the last effort.

We eat together at home: my uncle was sitting at the table of nines, as a twenty-four chicken
years. After the table, make your visit to the Montifiori.

- Diablo, that you are smart, for a widower so cool - said Don Benito.

- Hey - I said my uncle ...-- to the opera tonight ...

- We are also going, what the devil, but we have come dressed as you ...

- Is that I'm not alone - said my uncle.

- What!

"Pursues an adventure behind the scenes? - Sarcastically asked Don
Benito.

- No ... Let yourself jokes, accompanied the family of Montifiori,
Blanca ...

- Do you? - Asked Don Benito, pointing his finger.

-
Yes, yo, what's strange?

- Don Ramon, you are courting Montifiori
White, do you value?

- Why not?

... if I told you that I am accepted ...

- But, man - I said - this is a union impossible, absurd.

White is a young woman, you almost three times her age.

- July - told me - every reflection is useless Blanca loves me.

- Love your money, my friend - said Don Benito with a bang on the
table.

- Don Benito !...-- cried my uncle, with a gesture of impatience.

-
Hey!

Yes, sir ... your money ... And that marriage is a shame, a shame!

You will be the laughing stock of the world. You, who have come from the clutches of a woman absurd
will fall into the hands of ...

- Don Benito !...-- interrupted
my uncle Ramon.

- Dude - I said - think what you do, you do not block
a woman so young ... wait ... reflect.

- Anyone you would make to
you by a jealous - he said stressing the sentence.

My blood mounted to the face and I could not hide my embarrassment.

- And when will the wedding? - Asked Don Benito, smiling.

- Hey! you go to the devil - said my uncle Ramon, - I am not to be
the subject of his jokes, and rose from the table violently.

Semiramis was given that night, and Columbus was a gala, the boxes are occupied by the most
beautiful and known women of high society, looked dazzling.

He had sung the first act, the Scalchi Borghi and electrified the audience and the room could not
hear but the echo of enthusiasm and praise.

A classic night of opera in Columbus has all the elite that has Buenos Aires in men and women. Just
take a visual to the semicircle of the room: the president, ministers, capitalists, lawyers and lions,
all are there, what is the Vanity Fair, in which no missing its inconsistencies
village: the caretaker of his cap pulled down in the middle of the
room, the company in in menage, installed in one of the best boxes
at the theater, cigar smoke obscuring the entire room.

Had not completed the first act, when in a box on the left appeared Fernanda and with Dr. White
Montifiori Montifiori and uncle. The two women were radiant beauty and luxury. They were like
two sisters.

All eyes focused on the stage, all glasses were fixed on White and Fernanda. Don Benito, who
was beside me, touched me arm.

The entire theater was a single comment.

At our side, we had two young impertinent talking, without knowing,
with all nerve.

- The old one, which now approaches him, - one of
them told the other ...

- It can not be answered this ...--.

- I
say yes, that's the boyfriend ... Toupet that woman.

- But you sure?

-
Most certain ... if you know much about the old man, when I was an
intern in Dr. Trevexo, went every day to study.

- And she know?

-
Bah, bah, school ... skin was the devil when girl ... a pony!

...

Don Benito, dumb, but leaving a slight smile wandered over his lips,
kept touching my arm each word of the indiscreet.

- But it will be
possible to marry?

...

- Well, most true.

- And the father is able to authorize such a marriage?

- A parent
is the guts of a gold ... Three millions of dollars worth, what the
hell!

The comments made by our side those two boys, no doubt the boxes roamed and casserole.

Enough to observe some faces with some attention, to know the impressions
produced theater in the presence of my uncle's box Blanca.

In the pot is felt tajear of languages, as well as feel the scythe mowing a pasture.

The face of the parishioner of the pot is lit with a stage show featuring
with a luxurious and worldly woman - the printing cazuelera immediately
reported her neighbor, - it makes it an appropriate signal to the
matter at issue, then you talk, whisper, laugh, get serious, look
back to the subject of the commentary and the scene lasts until that
the curtain rises.

In the pot is no puppet head hostel maids and maidens, which luxury and wealth do not smile, nor
popular, it becomes Criterion: there are passed by Sieve all the reputations, whether men or
women.

There are published slips of the most beautiful married woman who shines in a box, although
it is more virtuous Lucretia. Here are his love, the lover is pointed with his finger, ridicules
the husband, is told the latest real and intimate adventure with relish, the languages, like
so many knives beard, not content with shaving, behead, finalize, fleshing fleshing honor as
a corpse in the autopsy room. They include, by name, the beloved Men's Fashion, is taken account
of their natural children, it is explained why they broke up marriage to skank, how lost in
the club-so, why he went to Europe, why came, what woman love today, how would you if so, where
they are and even what house citations occur.

Mothers, those who believe that heaven is up, not ever bring forth your daughters casserole.

Pray
to God to take them to hell before Satan, in hell will be more protected your modesty, which
at the gallery where gossip flies, tangled intrigue, slander and
bites jealousy rages.

You have the authority, abolish the pan: in it the elements meted men: women one becomes a snake
in that cavern air.

* * * * *

       That night the pan realized my uncle's reputation and that of White.

The doctor Montifiori, in the midst of profound satisfaction that showed his face for the triumph
of plans, not enough to calculate, despite their great malice and all the poison that had been
distilled the pot on him and on his wife, his daughter and the immaculate head of my uncle Ramon
his future son.

XIV

Six months later, the wedding of my uncle Ramon with White, was
a thing fixed.

No marriage but it has shaken the social circles of Buenos Aires. In the theater, in Palermo
in the dances, clubs, churches are not talking about something else. My uncle had been demolished
and rebuild much of his home in Victoria Street. I had made the decision to abandon, return to live
with Don Benito, but he had allowed me, had started to ask me you would not, and concluded by suplicármelo
so, that too had to quit my regret my projects. The ancient palace of bourgeois had been completely
transformed Berriedale under the artistic direction of Mr. Montifiori. My uncle had decorated his house
with all the Modern comfort and attic. Was this the nest is most beautiful in the world that a woman
could dream, and something unique to the boyfriend had rejuvenated, and had taken all the contours
a man's world.

On June 20, 1883, at nine in the evening, a long series of private
carriages positioning themselves on the most central street of San
Martín and those of them descended, entered through a spacious hall
in a house occupied by a very extensive front.

Door street, covered by a huge scarlet curtain, gave entrance to a gallery hung with red cloth,
profusely illuminated and decorated with garlands and flowers. Two footmen in livery kept their doors
on each side of the entrance. He was there for a warm and friendly atmosphere. All Buenos Aires
aristocratic paraded through this gallery: the great men of state, the high trade, banking,
military, judiciary, forum, letters, press. The women covered by fur and pile variety, earned
the chilly and hasty steps, pinned the arms of their escorts.

That house was the palace of Dr. Montifiori, which should take place that night Uncle Ramon marriage
with Miss White Montifiori, only daughter of the famous man world we know.

The house of Dr. Montifiori well worth a page. The tropics had provided his richest and voluptuous
finery to adorn the spacious lobby covered with Byzantine mosaics. This artificial flora fashion
that prepares the ground carefully, and demands the rare fruits the
fantasy of the artists of botany, rivaled that night with copies most
curious of Garden Plants.

The Tijuca garden had contributed in their most beautiful samples. From the lowest to the highest
lobby, including the grand staircase of carved oak, lazy leaves fell on their stems in large
vessels of pottery or wood fern, Parietaria, the lotus and nenuphares spread their leaves, captive
despotic fashion, under whose rule seem to feel the nostalgia of the lymph of the streams
where they were caught.

Montifiori mansion showed very clearly that the homeowner a yield of intimate worship the century of
the upholstery and bibelotaje, the Goncourt brothers that are intended major represented all
the luxuries of Renaissance murals brighten the walls of the hall:
bronze and marble statues in their columns and their niches, exotic
leaves Japanese vessels and Saxe, enameled earthenware pagodas and
Germanic: all anachronisms of modern decor; in short, Montifiori,
well judged, was a bit bourgeois Monsieur Jourdain to the end.

There much progress, it is true, his extensive travels through Europe, his malice and his instinct,
had supplemented shortcomings and chic on the aristocracy was as Buenos Aires, it is not as fine
art connoisseurs, as intended, despite its innate inadequacy. It is true that the century tapestry
needs two elements to shine: the Jewish bazaars and importer, brocateur, as they call the French
and the bourgeois fool who buys and collects and which is for fine and astute connoisseur of the
old, this invaluable vieux, which All are played, at the risk of that is apocryphal.

Montifiori surrendered their faith to the old, in addition to the great hall Louis XV, carved
furniture and gold, wearing gold-colored velvet of Genoa, in which two wall paintings were occupied
by two Flemish tapestries, the other rooms offered disorder more artistic than you can imagine.
The walls, upholstered in rich brocades imitating roles and cordovan, a series of large paintings
and small absorbed the attention of the curious. Tables were those in which Montifiori encrypt
all their pride.

There was a sketch of a nymph dark against a brown background, illuminated by two or three bold
strokes denouncing the forms of a naked woman breast meat and copious vermilion, and showed
Montifiori as a Rubens in the stands that exhibited plush cherry, and beyond, paintings by
Laucret by Largillière, by Mignard, by Trinquez by Madrazzo by Rico, Egusquiza Arcos. Of these, only
two of the past were real.

Among the fabrics, some bas-reliefs in bronze, and on the furniture, feet of all kinds ancient
and modern bronzes, terracotta Carpeaux, Chapu, and Cordier busts Monteverde and Dupré, a number
of reductions Bardedienne, vases, amphorae and smaller objects on Oriental rugs, including varieties
of trinkets were in enamel, in Saxe, in Sevres, tortoiseshell, ivory old.

As shown, the house of my uncle's father paid tribute to fashion, a greyhound aristocratic race,
there would have found much inconsistency, much apocryphal, many trifling, but the fact was that
Montifiori also understood Japan, tapestries, Flemish tapestries, Venetian glass, pottery and
bronzes of old, lacquers and textiles of Persia and Smyrna.

They walked all ages, all ages, all customs, with a dubious sync if you like, but with a dazzling
brightness of the first effect, with which the more prepared had to close my eyes and declared
that the doctor believes was a full Montifiori man of the world.

In that room, only one in Buenos Aires, Fernando played his baccarat with Don Benito and two or three
friends, nights of theater and dance positions, Mr. Penseroso made his propaganda Gospel and
White in a corner of the room mad at my uncle, telling the passion I had known to inspire a
hundred men of merit who had snubbed him.

Montifiori White's marriage had gathered at home to the most beautiful women of the day. The
report had already made an inventory of gifts. What wonders!

A bride and White out of a thousand branches which are mandatory, but could not get diamonds,
pearls and sapphires. His father, a man of great influence in the circles, her boyfriend, one of
the richest men; Fernanda, fashionable women, Blanca, the highest creature of living in Buenos
Aires, put that conflict evening bag each of the attendees.

It has such unmistakable the official gift in a wedding night!

For we must agree, what the devil! even in the case of my Uncle Ramon and his lovely girlfriend
in Buenos Aires that gives a bit of what to say, buy the cheapest I can but never without compromise
to the point of honor, with self-love which gives, for all want to be the first in the fair exhibits,
spending as little as possible. So the richest gifts of a wedding usually do not make the richest
capitalists, but the needy. That night, for example, Dr. Don Bonifacio de las Vueltas, friend
Montifiori doctor staff, beautiful property, beautiful political position, in a position to serve
and not be served, had given what not impossible pair of statues, bronze imitation cheesy, as
my former boss, Don Eleazar de la Cueva, a broken man in a desperate situation of fortune, had
thrown over the head and neck of the beautiful bride a cascade of pearls and diamonds.

- But that is famous Don Eleazar - Montifiori exclaimed, admiring the splendid dressing the
old Jew is an artist ...--¡ homme de monde! How different from the impossible and mean minister,
who can send these doodles of my daughter!

Curiosity kept quiet to women that night.

They knew by heart all the wedding gifts: diamonds, pearls, sapphires, rubies, rings, chains
and bracelets and diadems series of stone rings and flowers precious, that human vanity had
been deposited at the feet of the creature who sold your body to an old three million more than
sixty years.

But as women protruded, was a chronicle of rags: they had learned the trousseau of memory as the
secret book of the Sisters of the Holy League.

- Twelve street clothes - said an impertinent little person, twenty-five
long years, taking the tip of her satin shoe by the hem of her dress.

-
"Twelve? - I asked the neighbor - Fifteen ... And I've seen them all!

-
Is it possible?

...

- I think smugly replied ...-- which seem more informed.

- They say
there is a splendid dance, bleu d'eau color and a color printed velvet
ivory, trimmed with bouquets of tea roses