 Spies
were placed in the street near Altavilla and Garnet house in order that no escape; sobornose
the servants, were drawn by the most fruitful heads City thousand ingenious plans for harassing
the couple. As agreed with these preparations Carnival, decided to use it to strike the first
blow with a grand masquerade burlesque came out on Sunday at noon Paco Gómez house through the
streets. In a float drawn by four oxen dressed in red calico, their horns decorated with branches,
came three masks, trying to contain an Estrada Fernanda-Rosa, another to his father and another
to Garnet. The latter wore a hat with horns. Occasionally he stopped the carriage and ran a farce
that was ridiculous and rude roar of delight to the onlookers who gathered around. Fernanda
kissed Garnet transports of enthusiasm, this, as smaller, embraced more below the waist, and meanwhile
D. Juan laughing sounded a bag of money. Occasionally, the fund of the coach came quickly wanted
to represent another mask the Count de Onis, gave a kiss to Fernanda, I returned it back to Garnet,
and makes to hide at the same pace.

As this charade was carried out on the streets of Altavilla, before
the same house Estrada-Rosa, the scandal was huge, the crowd that
witnessed immense.

D. John, a paroxysm of anger, reported the Governor, great friend, and decided to go up following
with Fernanda. The young thugs, who foresaw this determination, they had hatched render it
ineffective means of preparing, as we have seen a great charivari for night. Was anticipated
because it had not been married, but in no way wanted to be escaping without it. Armed, then, few
could have loud instruments, with high transparent, which were painted the same grotesque figures
of the carriage with brutal legends below, and torches in their hands, gathered over three hundred
boys in Altavilla, and about population half of them encouraged them with their laughter. The noise
was horrid. Of Occasionally a voice stopped and threw the air any indecent song, which was
celebrated with cries of joy, growing so much and so the din, that the world was falling apart. Lieutenant
Rubio, always original, climbed over the cornices of the chapel of San Fructuoso, located almost
front of the house of Estrada, Rosa, and began ringing the bell. Paco Gómez was covertly one
by another group targeting the most harmful coplitas to repeat aloud which had more sturdy. Moro
rang his famous serpent to take the lungs, while the sissy Sierra, who had been one of the most
active promoters of the bell, you got home treacherously D. John, sold as a faithful friend, to spy
on reality what was going on.

But the political head of the province thought that it was time to officiate and compose Neptune angry
waves. When the Charivari was at its height, sent Altavilla Nola, out of the municipal guards,
accompanied by two numbers, which turned out to be Lucas the Rosette
and Pepe la Mota, with orders to pacify the scandal and clear the
street.

The lacienses were seasoned of old not to recognize the divine origin of authority when Nola,
the Pepe Mota rosette or were determined to represent it. And not only cast doubt on their
legitimacy, but as discerned from afar, his spirit was blowing in the wind of revolt and curling.
"This consisted in the lacienses were predestined by the blind impulses of his nature to conspire
against the established order? It is not plausible. None Lancia historians have identified
as the distinctive character of that race opposition institutions. It is more natural to assume
that what angered them so deeply and I inclined to the conspiracy was the nose of Nola, the
size of an electric bell button, the husky voice of Luke the Rosette and legs arched monstrously
Pepe Mota.

Plenty of these respectable actors knew governmental power anarchic tendencies that sometimes
manifested itself in the neighborhood of Lancia. But what is not even suspected the introduction
incautiously from the crowd, Altavilla was that they had to leave
there without a cane, without sword, without kepis and slapped cheeks.

Thus it is written without however.

The political chief would not comply with the inscrutable judgments of God, and gets angry
immediately summoned the lieutenant of the civil guard and sent him to avenge eight numbers the
unfortunate Nola, Rosette and Pepe Lucas Mota.

Flushed with the funny last victory of Altavilla, tried to resist.

Then Lieutenant, who devoured the fire of war, sent wield sabers, and smiling ferociously, laid
on the crowd like a boar indomitable.

Seeing him, a shudder ran through the living members of each of the lacienses. There tendencies
to withdraw from the battlefield, but missed at the time who encouraged her brave heart misleading
offering the prospect of victory.

- Outside the civilians! Tricorn Down! Ranker Die!

Such were the cries rebels who escaped from the breasts of reckless youth.

And at the same point flew some stones. The daffodil, the euphoniums, the cornets piston whose
musical voice had sung many mazurkas in the midst of peace, transformed suddenly instruments
of war, casualties shone the torchlight.

The Lieutenant tricorn embarrassingly fell to the ground one pulse. He picks it up. Warrior's heart
quivers, a circle of foam forming around their lips and is thrown into battle with swollen
eyes, breathing extermination.

Then, under the rule of irresistible force, the young heroes retreated Lancia giving loud cries threatening.
The swords of civilians began to sound flat the backs of a few. The retreat became a flight
soon. As a flock of Deer runs and chased by Jackals disbanded and generous children fled Lancia that
memorable night, pursued by bloodthirsty civilians. The ground was strewn brass instruments, witnessed
the affront. The lieutenant walked a long time indomitable its fury in the streets, cheering with
their hosts live interjections, throwing them in pursuit of the rebels as a hunter throws his pack
in pursuit of a deer. That's how Paco Gómez, followed doggedly by the three-cornered hats, the
accuracy was to escape to his belt, to squeeze through the window of the shop of Ms Romana, falling
face down on a source egg masses and completely destroying a magnificent cake intended for Cantor
Borage the cathedral. This was also Jaime Moro, after losing in the fray the serpent Don Nicanor,
was about to be slain by the sword glowing with a civilian. Only for having taken the precaution
to lower his head when he threw the coup prevented the effusion blood. The sword was to hit
the wall of a house, making it not a little havoc. Months later, Moro husked taught as a trophy
piece to outsiders Friends who came to Lancia, and to remember his
exploits and dangers in that glorious night, a soft joy down his heroic
heart.

Many other members of that youth experienced damage magnanimous consideration in its economy,
some by the influx of sabers, most from falls and crashes resulted from the rush. The victory was not
yet free agents government. Apart from the failure of the cocked hat of Lieutenant and some bruising of
his subordinates, the powers that suffered a major setback in the person of one of its oldest representatives
in the person of Nola, out of city. We know that this character, entirely unpopular in Lancia,
because of the shortness, and even more over-roundness of his nose, had lost in the first skirmish
the kepi, sword and the honor of your cheeks. The anger and revenge rule over his heart. Nothing
could be done, however, to turn them off, because he was deprived of all means of coercion.
But instead of retiring to the porch of prudently Hall, as did his companions Luke the Rosette
and Pepe la Mota, remained middle Street anxiously watching the battle. Seeing that was decided in favor
of institutions he represented the joy spilled over his chest loudly
municipal.

- Good for the guards!

Hard on them! Rajarme this rabble! To see if a warning to Once the rascals!

Such were the warlike cries that came from his throat. However, at least could expected, because
the enemies were fleeing in disarray, came crashing to the button his nose a hard body with a smooth
surface and compact which was a piece of hydraulic lime. All the bells rang his brain at a time. Unable
to suffer so much noise, wine knowledge to private land. His chest magnanimous only had the strength
to breathe a complaint melancholy.

- Recongrio, I have escuaernao those bastards!

Thus fell this mighty bastion of order, the man worked in its incessant struggles with the rascals of the
suburbs had so often walked along the path of victory. Levantáronlo and placed in the pharmacy
and Matias, who was next. From there he was taken shortly then to the hospital. The city lost
a few days his shield.

Because neither Lucas the Rosette and Pepe Mota could compete in energy with Nola.

While these events were made in Altavilla and adjacent streets, D. Juan Estrada-Rosa, indescribable
irritation dam, walked by his office excitedly stroking her hair.

The consolations of Sierra hypocritical fag could not calm him.

He talked about going out and thrown on the insolent crowd.

- What I have done my poor child! "- Exclaimed in a trembling voice, close to sobbing.

Fernanda had retired to his room early and had gone to bed. If surprised the clamor that sounded
in the street or already had it, is not easy to know. When D. Juan, after adopting a violent resolution
to wake up, turning on the light found her with dry eyes and bright, no appearance of being
asleep or crying. He to dress in a hurry, and gave orders to the servants that they might have
lit all the house lights to deceive outsiders, came with her from the garage door, overlooking
a lonely alley. They were accompanied only Manuel Antonio. Dirigiéronse by the lost streets of
Retired home. Once there, he passed a message to Don Santos to be issued immediately, and
another to prison. When both went, the father, daughter and these two gentlemen, Manuel Antonio
and Mateo went secretly to Jovita Lancia Castilla road. After walking a while they waited for
the car that Don Juan had commanded to come. Acomodáronse the six as they could in the reel,
casting to Manuel Antonio the box.

Half an hour later they were in the possession of the banker. Hastily alzose a small altar in
the main hall of the house, and before daybreak, the prison blessed union of fiancés.

Fernanda had not taken off the lips during the journey. The same silence when they did preparations
for the ceremony. Appeared calm, in a state of absolute indifference or, rather, of sleepiness,
as the person who ripped sleep and soon realizes what is happening around him. But that went dormant
after to utter the self before the altar. Neither warm and eloquent discussion of the prison, or
incessant jokes Manuel Antonio while taking breakfast, no fondling Jovita and the excitement involved,
loud, his father managed to get her out of her strange distraction. Dawned the day, a sad day, cloudy,
melancholy seeping through the windows.

Everyone did efforts to be cheerful, be talked out loud, laughed commenting on the stupidity of
the servant, Manuel Antonio fear of tipping over.

There shone, however, a great sadness. When the conversation was interrupted brows wrinkled, their
faces darkened. To pursue it again, echoing words dismally in the luxurious dining room.

The bride retired to change costumes. A bit later, again with the same face impassive. D. According
to the plans John, should go immediately to take a village near the chaise. The Lancia indecent
would be so disappointed. When down the garden, where he hoped the
car, fine rain was falling and cold.

Fernanda kissed his father and entered the car. The poor old man, to get that kiss on the cheek,
he thought a stream of cold air coming through her membership and chilling paralyzing the heart.

The
whip snaps. "Farewell, Fernanda; abrígate, Fernanda. Adios, Santos. You come soon. "They are
already under way. Within an hour arrive at Meres, wait for the diligence and up in it. The same
obstinate silence by Fernanda. The Garnet did not care tear or a smile or a word of thanks,
his grotesque gestures and blunders that occasionally lets out do not arise in the marble face
of a young gesture of fatigue and disgust.

At times he sleeps, sometimes viewed with astonished eyes the landscape. When they reached the
outskirts of León was night.

But what about Leon? When you reach the square where the shot change diligence discover large
crowd of people, hearing voices outrageous, discordant noise of musical instruments tolling of
bells. And come to rise above the crowd some painted transparent.

Paco Gomez, trace fruitful than Ulysses, had written to some friends of Leon time back inviting
them to have a charivari for when pasasen Garnet and his wife there.

Lancia colony, which is large in Leon, admirably seconded plans his countryman. All I had prepared.
However, these preparations have been useless without the betrayal of Manuel Antonio, who reaches
Paco Lancia secret news what happened. He used the telegraph, newly installed, and began communicating
with his followers.

Fernanda soon realized that this uproar was against it.

When, for some screams reached his ears, came to the attention of
it, turned pale, his eyes widened and with a cry, rushed to the window
to throw out.

Garnet stopped holding the waist.

The girl fought furiously at times, but can not discard those short
arms and brawny bear, he fell at last into the seat, hands She took
in the face and began to sob.

- God, sin has been great, but what
a terrible punishment!

X

Five years later.

Five years elapsed. The noble city of Lancia has changed little on the outside and less still
in its customs. A few houses adorned with marzipan grilleras raised by gold Indian park near San
Francisco, several pieces of pavement on streets that he never possessed, three more lanterns
in Constitution Square, a policeman cool, which owes its existence not so much as service
needs to passions the mayor, a man of lofty thoughts, devoted almost entirely to Venus, which rewards
the condescension of Vulcan with the municipal budget in some Bombé ride bronze statues of the
fallen robes, which were serious scandal to his erection, making Judge Saleta proclaimed in the
gathering of Grandee that "the average was one hundred nudity most
exciting times to complete, "in the heads of our mature known some
silver threads, and in the face radiant as the rainbow of Manuel Antonio,
the most seductive of the sons of the illustrious city, and obvious
signs that her beauty will soon fade like a happy dream glacial breath
in the morning, as the snowflakes gently falling in the dead of winter
a sad day.

Vegetative life itself, misty, sleepy, the same conversation at the backrooms sucking with honey
delight of gossip. Weighing vulgar nicknames always lead slab on the happiness of some respectable
families. At the pump, sunny afternoons, the same clerics and military groups deployed in wing
walking. The huge bells of the basilica invariably ringing at set times. The devout old walking
with hurried to plant rosario or ninth. The monotonous chanting of the canons resonate deeply
in solitude of the high vaults. In Altavilla, at dusk, the eternal youth dances happy, laughing
a lot, talking loudly and opening We often to make way for a seamstress spiritual or affluent
meat maid who pay homage to the eyes, with the word and often with your hands. And there,
high in the sky, the same rings of clouds sad brown and quietly piling up on the ancient cathedral
to listen in melancholy of autumn night wind moans across the high drag of the tower shaft.

We are in November. The Count de Onís used to ride a horse the same on clear days in the dark. Fewer
and fewer will place the company of men. His character has been more suspicious and melancholy.
Sin annihilated the weak germs of joy that nature had placed in his heart. The gloomy temperament,
extravagant, fanatic Gayoso has been extolling it little by little with the incessant gnawing
of remorse, has upset his imagination, has enervated their low activity
and blackened its existence.

Bothered by men. In all eyes plan to watch hostility in the most innocent phrases, any malicious
intent that makes your blood boil with rage. Dare not enter the temples, even dropped to his
knees, as before, against the fourth bloody crucifix of his mother. If you hear talk of hell trembles
and flees. Send large alms to the churches charge masses who can not hear, put candles on
the images, and secrecy of his room is entertaining at times childishly to ask fate, throwing
a coin if will be condemned forever or just purgatory. When it comes to their ears singing
the priests who accompany a funeral, pale, trembling and covered their ears. By We often wake
up startled night with a cold sweat, screaming miserably "There die!

Must die! "

For a long time he lived almost completely removed, without leaving more than when it ordered
that will that had been his dominion. Then, as suffer too much, fearing that ended his dark thoughts
his reason, gave the outline to go by foot or horse, until fatigue.

The physical fatigue paid break his spirit, the show Nature calmed his troubled imagination.

It was a cold, dark afternoon. The clouds piled up over the hills weigh closing the horizon the
North, and hide the high mountains of Lorrin that stretch like a distant curtain by the West.
Heavy showers that have fallen became lower lake city and mud roads depart from it. Despite
this, the Count sent her saddle horse Lancia leaves the road to Castilla, and gallops among the
clouds of mud across the prairies and forests of chestnut trees. The yellow leaves of the
trees, washed rain, shine like gold, a thousand rivulets down the side hesitant creepeth of the
hill and go to deposit their water in the plain, which expands with
soft green and wet undulations