 The Bull of the Holy Cross produces
more than two and a half million pesetas every year, it must also be taken into account what parishes
taken from their faithful, and annual profits of religious orders for his ministry and crafts
(it really is starting fat), and the ecclesiastical budget municipalities and provincial councils
.... In short, the Church, speaking at all hours his "poverty", out of state and country more
than three hundred million pesetas every year: almost twice what it costs the army, and why in
the sacristy complain times modern, saying that they eat all the military and they are to blame
as occurs, for having gone to the damn freedom. Three hundred million, Gabriel! I have it good
calculated. And I form part of this institution, I have seven dollars a month, and most of the
vicars of Spain paid less than a guard Consumption and thousands of clergy walk to mouth of sacristy
sacristy, looking for a church to put the fire stew, and if not take to the road crews clerics
to steal, is because they fear the Civil Guard, and after two days of hunger comes a third where
they can eat a crust! There is always a crumb to entertain the hungry. No robe falls in the
middle of the street faint necessary, but many clergymen who go there fooling the stomach, imagining
that are fed until it reaches a condition anyone who takes them in the world ... Whither, So all that
money? The aristocracy of the Church, the true priestly caste, as us, in religion, people are downstairs.
What a fraud, Gabriel! Give love and family, fleeing the profane pleasures of theater, concerts
and coffee; be watched by men, even for those thrown out of religious, as strange beings, an
intermediate between the female and male, dragging skirts, dresses go at all times as a dismal
mess, and for so many sacrifices to earn less than biting stone on the road. We live rested,
certainly we will not fall from a scaffold; but our misery is greater than that of many workers,
and we can not confess or get to beg alms for the prestige, habit. Besides, why they should help
if loans do not cost us any practical value to the country ... so expensive? At the end of
domination religion in Spain, just us, the underdogs, we suffered the consequences. The priest
is poor, the temple is poor too, but the prince of the Church retains its thousands of dollars
a year and the church staff is quiet in his songs, seeing that imperiled pittance. The revolution,
so far, has only hurt the church populace. The power of the Church has done, is no longer living,
what we see is his body, but a corpse enormous, it will cost to remove, and eats a lot of money
for conservation.

- It's true: the Church is dead. What fight are his remains. The common people still thought
lives because they see it and touch it, unaware that a religion in your life forever by the
minute and passing generations and generations between his death
and burial.

Centuries before birth Jesus was already dead paganism. The poets of Athens laughed at the
scene of the gods Olympic philosophers despised. However, many still needed Christianity years
of propaganda and political support of the Caesars to destroy him. And not just yet, because the
dogmas are like men, that when you die perpetuate something of his being in the family happens.
Religions do not disappear suddenly, by trapdoor, was slowly extinguished, infiltrating some
of their beliefs and rituals in religion that replaces them. We born in one of these periods
of transformation, witnessing the death of an entire world beliefs. How long will the agony?
Who knows! Two hundred, maybe less, as late crystallize in mankind a new manifestation of their uncertainty
and fear of the great mystery of Nature. But death is certain, indisputable. What religion
has been eternal? The symptoms of death are everywhere. Where is the faith that drew to the
bellicose crowd of crusaders? Where is the fervor that raised cathedrals seraphic patience
for two hundred years to hold a wafer under a mountain of stone? Who whips and tortures are
now meat and live in the desert, thinking all the time in death and hell ...? In Spain, three
centuries of intolerance, excessive clerical pressure, have made our nation the most indifferent
in religious matters. Ceremonies are followed routine of worship, because they speak to the imagination,
but nobody takes the time to meet the foundation of the beliefs he professes, it accepts everything
without thinking, we live at ease, with the assurance that at the last minute just dying between
priests with a crucifix in hand, to save the soul. Pressed both in the past priests, friars
and inquisitors, the machine of the faith sprang into pieces, and no one can fix this device,
which requires the cooperation of all .... And this was fortunate, Don Martin. A century of intolerance
religious, and Spain would have been like those African Muslims living in barbarism as being
too religious, having been the Arab civilizing of Cordoba and Granada.

- Do you know - said the young priest - why Catholicism retains its appearance of power? Because since
ancient times have taken in the Latin countries all avenues through which a necessarily passing of
human life.

- It's true. No religion has been so cautious as this, none is better ambushed to reach out to
the man, none has chosen so well, in times of domination, to take strong positions when the
decline reached. Not move without tripping over it.

Known since ancient man as he looks healthy, in the fullness its vital force is, by instinct,
irreligious. When life is good, I care little about the call eternal existence. Only believe
in God and fears at the hour of supreme cowardice, when death opens the bottomless darkness of nothing,
and he, in his pride as rational animal, revolts against the complete suppression of their being.
Want your soul is immortal, and accepts religious fantasies of heaven and hell. The Church, fearing
the irreligion of the health question, as you say, all walks of life, that man is not accustomed
to exist without it, calling only at the time of death. The dead will produce much money, are
their best estate, but also wants to reign over the living. Nothing escapes his despotism and
espionage. Interferes in all things human, from large the insignificant part in public life
and in the intima, which is to baptize world, accompanying the child to school monopolizes love,
declaring shameful and abominable when not subjected to his blessing, and divided the land into
two categories: the sacred for who died in her womb, and outdoor manure pit for the heretic.
Involved in the suit, stating what is honest and Christian demeanor and what the trappings scandalous
da rules secret for expansions in the marriage bed, and even gets into the kitchen, creating
a culinary art of Catholicism, which regulates what to eat, what not to mix, and anathematized
certain foods, which, being good the rest of the year, are the most horrendous of the sacrilege
on certain days. Accompanies man from birth and does not leave even after depositing it in the
grave. I kept clinging to the soul and makes pilgrimages through space, passing on arrival
destination, ascending road to heaven, under to the sacrifices required by their successors the benefit
of the Church. Largest and most comprehensive despotism not imagine any tyrant.

It was noon. The sexton was gone. They heard the creaking of chains and pulleys and a dull thunder
shook the whole tower. Vibrated metal and stone, and even seemed to be moved the ether of space.
Bell had just called Gorda, deafening that stood to it. Moments later, at the border fortress
echoed the martial sound of trumpets and drums.

- Come on - said Gabriel -. Mariano was advised us that, to avoid surprise.

He added, smiling wryly

- Always the same.

Parasites are the most shine and put most noise. What they can not
in profit as they provide a roar.

Came the feast of Corpus without the slightest incident disturbed
the peaceful life of the cathedral.

From time to time spoken in the upper cloister of the health of His Eminence. Its serious
trouble in the council forced him to bed. So he had an attack had feared for his life.

It said the heart thing Tato, who was well acquainted with the affairs
of the palace -.

Visit time as a Doña Magdalena, and curses the canons seeing Don Sebastian as below par.

The Wooden Staff, sitting or table with the family, spoke of the decline of the party Corpus,
so famous in the Toledo of old. His eagerness made him forget regret the bitter silence that
was imposed in the presence of his daughter.

- You will not know our Corpus - Gabriel told -. Which still reach us, only are the famous
tapestries that are placed outside the cathedral.

The giants and not line up at the door of Forgiveness, and the procession
is anything.

The choirmaster also complained.

- What about the Mass, Mr Stephen? What a solemn Mass for feast! Four instruments outside the home,
and Rossini misita of the lightest, in order not to spend much. For this it would be better just
playing the organ.

On the eve of the feast, the music of the Infantry Academy played in the evening before the Cathedral,
according to ancient custom. All Toledo came to the serenade, which was an event in the monotonous
life of the city. Of Madrid province and strangers came to the run bulls the next day.

Ringer Mariano invited friends to hear the serenade of the Greco-Roman
gallery facade.

At the time the lights went out in the Claverias and Don Antolin closed the front door, Gabriel
and his friends cautiously glided into the room Ringer. Sagrario was also, at the behest of
his uncle, who had almost tear it from the machine. Had some leisure time to enjoy, the convenient
peek into the world of late to time, it was killing with that life
of overwhelming work ethic.

They all sat in the gallery.

The shoemaker had taken his wife, always with a little boy loose grip on the udder. El Tato
spoke enthusiastically of darkening and the verger the race the next
day, and Mariano stood next to his beloved comrade, while his wife,
a female as brave as him, talked with Sagrario.

The men complained that Mr. Martin was not present. Had to walk down between the crowd that filled
the plaza, thinking no doubt that terror had to rise before dawn to say Mass at the nuns.

The town hall was decorated with garlands of lights, which reverberated
over the facade of the cathedral, giving the stone a reddish glow
of fire.

Between seedlings by groups of girls walking with flowers and white blouses, as if were the first appearance
of the summer. The cadets were on hand grip Saber, moving her slender
waist and the Turkish wide trousers.

The Archbishop's Palace was closed. Above the red glow of the square covering a large area view
space, a summer sky, dark, clear and deep, tinged with bright dust
stars.

When the music stopped and started off the lights, the people of the
cathedral felt certain laziness in leaving their seats.

They were right there. The night was warm, and they, accustomed to seclusion and silence of the
Claverias, felt the joy of freedom remaining on the balcony, with Toledo at his feet and the
vastness of space before your eyes.

Sagrario, who had left the cloister high since he returned to his father's house, watching
the sky with wonder.

- Stars! - Muttered, as if lies and dreams.

- Tonight we have increased - said Ringer -. The summer sky like a star field, increasing the harvest
in good weather.

Gabriel laughed at the simplicity of their peers. They all looked up to God, so proactive and
careful, he had made the moon to the men at night, and the stars so that the darkness was not absolute.

-
Then - asked Gabriel - why not the moon is forever, and that made it to enlighten?

There was a long silence. All reflected on the question of Gabriel. Ringer, to have more confidence
with the teacher dared to ask what they all thought. What was heaven?, what lay beyond that
blue ...?

The place had been deserted and in darkness.

There was more light than the dim glow of the stars scattered into space as gold dust. In the
vast vault seemed to fall religious calm, an overwhelming majesty entered the souls of those simple
people. Infinity began to get drunk with dizziness of his greatness.

- You - Gabriel said - you have closed your eyes to the immensity. You can not understand.
I have taught the world a source mean and crude, which imagined a few ragged and ignorant Jews
in a corner of Asia, and written in a book, has been accepted until today. This personal God,
like us in shape and passions, a craftsman of gigantic size that works six days and is all that
exists. The first day "created light" and the fourth the sun and stars. Whence came, then, if
it light had not created the sun? Is there a distinction between one and another ...? It seems
impossible that may have accepted such nonsense for centuries.

The listeners nodded their heads in assent. Palpable absurdity appeared to them as Gabriel always
talking.

If you want to enter heaven - Luna continued - you have to divest
of human concept distance.

Man measures everything by its size and dimensions are conceived by the scope their eyes.
This cathedral seems huge because under their ships are like ants;
and yet, the cathedral, seen from afar, is a small wart, compared
with piece of land we call Spain, is less than a grain of sand, and
on the surface Earth, is an atom ... nothing.

Our eyes and makes us think the heights are vertigo thirty or forty yards. At this point we believe
to be very high because we are near the roof of the cathedral, and all this distance is worth
so little to the infinite as the indecision of the ant on a pebble hesitates, not knowing how
to fall. Our view is short. We, we measure by the meter, we can conceive only short distances, we
have to make a great effort of imagination to encompass the infinite. Even so, we escapes, and we
talked about it many times as an expression of lack of respect. How to understand the immensity
of the world ...? Not believe, as our ancestors believed that the Earth is stationary and flat,
and that heaven is a glass dome where God knelt stars as nails gold and ride the sun and moon to illuminate.
You will know that the Earth is round and rotates in space.

- Yes, we know something about it - said ringer accent of doubt -. Taught us in school. But
do you really think you moving?

- Because your smallness of human beings can not feel the movement, because your microscopic
view of moles escapes the vast world gear, do not doubt it.

The Earth rotates. Not moved away from where you are, twenty-four hours have come full circle
the globe.

Without separating the feet from the ground run all four leagues
per hour, speed failure to achieve the fastest trains.

Do you asombráis? For even run more without knowing it. Our planet not only turns on itself, but at the
same time circulating around the Sun at a rate a hundred thousand
miles per hour. Every second we walk thirty thousand meters. Ever
invented men a cannonball so fast. You are going by the immensity
clinging to a missile Marching rapidly, and deceived by your smallness,
you believe still live in a Cathedral dead ... And these speeds are
not nothing compared to others! The Sun, around which turn, falls
and falls flat, the attraction being glued to their sides to Earth
and the other planets. Going by the immensity, crawling, running into
the unknown, not encounter with other bodies, always finding room
to fall at a speed which is calculated da dizziness, and this takes
thousands and millions of centuries, but it and the Earth, which follows
in his escape, passing twice on the same site.

Gabriel listened to
all open-mouthed amazement. His eyes seemed bright lost in vertigo.

-
There is to get crazy - Ringer murmured -. What is it, man, Gabriel?

-
Nothing, as nothing is also the land that seems so big and religions
have populated, Empires and revelations from God. Dreams of ant!,
Alone