 As Don Rosendo passes through the first merchant of the town, don Eugenio can not but
feel flattered by these words.

Having chatted a few moments with family Belinchón Mateo says goodbye
to cycle through all the boxes, as was his custom, but before he said,
turning to Cecilia:

- When will it arrive?

The girl was slightly lit.

- I can not tell you, Don Mateo ...

Dona Paula smirked and came to the aid of his daughter.

- Must go
in the Bella-Paula, who has already left Liverpool.

- Oh! So here
we have it tomorrow or ... Will you have prayed a lot to the Virgin
of Storms, right?

- A ninth has done nothing less!

For days that are six candles burning before the image - Venturita said.

Cecilia got even more red and smiled. It was a young man of twenty years, not graceful face
and graceful figure. What is most disconcerting that harmony was the nose too columbine. Without this
blemish might not have been ugly, because the eyes were extremely nice, so soft and expressive
beauty that few could boast of possessing such. Neither high nor low, but the ungainly size
and slightly hunched shoulders. Her sister was ten Ventura and six years, and appeared as a beautiful
blossom, full of grace and joy. Her oval face seemed made of roses and carnations. Apretadita
meat and small in stature, so wisely provided by Nature, that seemed modeled in wax. His hands
were jasmine and Creole feet, held in Sarrió ever seen, the softness and smoothness of her skin,
expired at the pearl and alabaster. On the forehead, high and narrow as those of Venus Greek,
a white Argentine fell loops of her hair blond, as a skein, so thick as docile and bright,
entirely covered his back to below the waist.

- Make fun of your sister, picarilla, you'll soon do the same!

- "I pray for a man? You dotage, Don Mateo.

- You'll tell me soon - said the old man going to another stage to greet the Maza.

In this Pablito approached that of their parents, bringing in your company deserves a faithful friend
special mention. He was the son of the chopper was in the town, and boy that his figure could
be the delight of the spectators in a circus acrobats. Nothing needed to add to his person, powders
or flour, or vermilion, or soot to be converted into clown. He was a clown 'Natural'. His nose
and vividly colored by nature, their crooked eyes, the absence tab, its pitch, the crazy shoulder
width, the arch of his legs and, above all, the grotesque grimace that accompanies the talk
or growl, causing laughter, without wigs and makeup. Pisces knew well (as it was called or was
called) and it was deeply sorry and even angry. To counter these native provisions comic of his
face, never had determined not to laugh, and keep his promise faithfully. In addition, for
the same effect used his words wisely interspersed with more harsh expletives and fearful of the
national repertoire, and several of his particular invention. But this, instead of producing
the desired effect, helped to awaken the joy among acquaintances.

The only somewhat took him seriously was Pablito. Pisces and Pablito were born to love and admire.
The point of conjunction of these two stars was the horses gender. Pisces, trained by his
father since childhood, was the best rider Sarrió, therefore Pablito for the person most worthy of admiration.
Rosendo's son was the boy in rich people: for Pisces, must be, of course, the most respectable
and worthy of veneration that was on the planet. Nobody knew what time this friendship going
back. He had been Pablito and Pisces eternally together as children. Men and was not party to separate
the different social position they occupied. The venue for these young people was consistently significant
Rosendo's stable. From there, after holding always a long and erudite conference meet the
horses, with a theoretical and practical part, came out to walk her figure and deep knowledge
of the town, sometimes riding spirited horses, others in a charrette beautiful, Pablito guide,
Pisces to the fixed and absorbed in the loving contemplation of the backs of horses. Some also,
to give an example of humility, walking on own two legs.

Paul went to his family, writhing with laughter.

- What happened to you? - Dona Paula asked, smiling.

- We have followed a parakeet in the pot and you are hand in hand
with Ramona - said the youth, mouth close to her sister's ear Ventura.

-
Yeah ... What do you say? - Said it with great curiosity.

- As you
said ... (A flood of laughter interrupted him for a few moments)