 One of them, smiling embarrassed exclaimed:

-
Excuse me, sir .... We thought we were partners and we wanted to
give them a scare ....

- Did you not know that we were going down
now? - Again said with irritation.

- Mr. Director, we thought that
stopped in the ninth, where preparations have been made these days
....

- You thought, you believed!

... Well be careful to believe nonsense.

The Duke recovered the use of the word.

- You know, my children, you spend some light banter with your mates!

... Bring Them death before your eyes!

- Death! - Said the miner
who had spoken.

- No, Duke - said the director -.

If you do not throw the anchors we had washed up waist.

- Nothing else?

- Does it seem to you soon get into dirty water?

- Man, it was not
like dish, but to see you so agitated and angry, all believed a danger
of death, eh, ladies?

The ladies fell apart in exclamations, some crying, others laughing. Care was lavished two who
had fainted, cooling water temples and making sucking bottle sales
of the Countess of Cotorraso.

Finally returned to consciousness. The others were calming welcoming with joy to have escaped
that awful danger, as no resigned to not having happened. All proposed move to her friends
in Madrid with the story this horrible adventure. Creíanse and heroines of a novel by Jules Verne.

The
spectacle offered to his sight when they had eyes to behold it was great and fantastic. Huge
vaulted galleries crossing in all directions and illuminated only by the pale light of some lamps
hung from long distances.

And for those galleries flowing with incessant bustle a crowd of workers, whose gigantic silhouettes
yonder trembled in the flickering and dim light prevailed. Their cries could be heard the creaking
of the United trucks: they seemed seized with a vertigo, as if they had to conduct its mysterious in
very short term. The walls of some galleries, lined with crystals of mercury, in many points
presented native, which shone like silver. Escuchábanse behind those walls thump, rhythmic. For
certain openings that stretch at intervals were walking a few steps in the darkness, could
be seen at the end of a cave lit where four or six men disheveled and pale with holes pierced
the mineral. A little that should rest, watched in its members the tremor characteristic of
mercury.

A home was believed himself transported to the gnomes, the center of his profound works and mysterious.
The man chewed the land with endless effort as a mole, filling holes.
But the bite was poisoned.

Without the help of cat, the gods got rid mouse perfectly human.

Madariaga Lola gave a piercing scream that made her turn her head at all. Then laughed. A trickle
of water falling from the ceiling had been introduced by the neck.

Made me laugh the incident, but without spontaneity. At bottom, all experienced a vague fear, some anxiety
trying to hide. The cage area brought a lot of other people. The third time was almost empty. The
rest of the party had opted to stay on the ninth floor: work of the miners were not interested.
Those who had declined to live there too felt desires to be in more comfortable surroundings.
Asked each time if that director I was sure, if there were no cases of subsidence.

- Oh, no! - Said the director smiling -. The mine collapses are private. This belonged to the state,
and everything is done in great security.

- In some mines where I've been - said an engineer - had to get a
gang behind of the miners to dig.

- What horror - a voice cried all
the ladies.

Acomodáronse finally back in the cage, and climbed to the ninth floor.

Here the decor was different. This floor was not working for some time. He had taken in the
wider gallery a piece, it had closed, Tiller and then carpeting. So that the room seemed a
palace. The roof and walls were covered with waterproof cloth, decorated with trophies mining.
Stood a splendid table in the middle of it for fifty or more covered. Was profusely illuminated
by large chandeliers with hundreds of candles. Had been lavished, in short, all the refinements
of luxury and elegance in that room. So that once inside it was hard to represent that he was at
the bottom of a mine three hundred meters from the surface.

The guests sat in the middle of a scuffle between pleasant and distressing
that revealed in their smiling faces and pale at a time.

The servants, properly dressed, occupied their jobs as if they were in the palace of Requena.
At the start of the first service plate, the orchestra, which was hidden in one of the adjoining
galleries, began playing a beautiful vals, whose sounds, muffled by distance, came sweet and
encouraging. The ladies, with trembling hands, bright eyes, whispering to each moment - "What is original
this! ... I'm so glad you came! ... It's been a wonderful whim that of Clementina. " And all
tried to find a balance of mind chatting about indifferent things. More not succeeded. The
idea of ??having so much land over weighed on his mind and disturbed. With some men felt the same. Others
were perfectly calm. Among these, which less thought of his body position was undoubtedly Raymond,
completely absorbed in morally occupied. Clementina, in spite of his love and his promises, he
kept flirting with Escosura. They sat in two chairs side by side, in front of the seat he occupied.
One appeared chatting animatedly, laughing all the time: one appeared he surrendered, obsequious,
lavishing thousand gallant attentions, pleased her, smiling, accepting with gratitude your kindness.
And although from time to time he nailed a long loving look to compensate him, Rayford felt as charity,
the scraps that are thrown into a poor to not starve. What mattered to him at that moment found
on the surface or in the center of the earth, or even that it drowned and crushed like a bug!

Another
who also cared little or a lot with the location was Ramon, although by contrast mode. Esperanza
was with him lovable, perhaps because he believed in it better keep your promise no Pepe Castro.
The councilman, drunk, delirious with joy, it did not depart one iota more than what decency
requires.

Pio, happy, successful, directed from time to time in the competition vague looks of pity and
condescension. And when their eyes met the face rentist of Calderon visibly softened and had
difficulty work and not call Dad.

As the lunch progressed, the land was less about them. The rich wine inflamed His blood, the
animated chat. Everyone forgot mine, believing, like other Sometimes, in a high aristocratic.
Rafael Alcantara Peñalver Inebriate amused.

Encouraged by the laughter of his companions, who watched him, did her best to make fun of philosopher
tuteándole aloud, winking at his friends every time you uttered a wisecrack, abuse, in short,
grossly benign character and innocence of the famous thinker. Was responsible to avenge all those
famous ring of pipes, high skills intellectuals recognized in all of Spain Peñalver.

Upon arrival, he arose to provide Escosura desserts. In this respect him more than the wild for
his size, because of their fiery and especially for their money. He boasted tribunician. Campanula
powerful voice and did the eulogy of the Duke, whom he called "financial
genius" a few times.

He spoke of labor, capital, production, going at once policy, which was his forte. Escosura lived
not long ago rather than politics. From the bottom of that terrible dart underground passage led from
Council President of ministers who had not given a portfolio in the last crisis. Salabert
replied with words thanking slurred, leaning on the floor. To get to the position held had
no other merit than work and honesty. (Murmurs of approval.) Nation, the sovereign, he was ennobled
ennoble a child's work. Struggling full against countless obstacles life had brought together a handful
of gold. This gold served now to feed a few thousand workers. It was his greatest satisfaction. (Applause.)
It gave by the beautiful ladies who had come with such bravery until that hole, leaving he
scent of love and joy that will never be erased from the hearts of miners.

At that instant, uncorked a few bottles of champagne, were heard in the mine some pale thunderous
explosions that made the guests.

- Do not be scared - said the director -. Are drilled. It's time to give them.

Grand and impressive moment of truth.

The noise of each, a hundredfold by the thousand echoes and resonances
that the galleries produced, could not fail to infuse a spark of to
fear in the hearts of the bravest.

All were silent. For a few seconds listened with awe and anxiety echoes those formidable earth
did tremble. The table shook and glass dishes and the clatter acute sang spiders.

In that time rose from his chair, the doctor of mine, and after walking his black eyes aggressive
guests, raised a glass and said:

- The Duke of Requena egregious just told us, with modesty does him
credit, that the secret of his fortune was simply at work and honesty.

Let me think twice. Mr. Duke of Requena is greater than these qualities vulgar represents the strength
of strength! sole support of the Universe. This force is distributed unevenly among the agencies.
A few have been played a major part, others less. And in this relentless battle to maintain
against each other perish the weakest saved the fittest and strongest. Worship, then, our illustrious
host, forcefully. Thanks to this force of nature has endowed him, was able to subdue and exploit
the particular efforts of thousands of men unconsciously serve their plans. Thanks to this force
was able to meet its huge capital. By reaching this distinguished assembly view, I note with joy that
all that it consists were also fitted with a good part of this force or total native by heredity.
Therefore, I congratulate you with all my heart. The essential thing in this world we inhabit
is suitable for birth control. To avoid being crushed is necessary to crush. And I congratulate
I repeat, to be among the chosen of the gods, those whose providence has marked with the seal
of happiness ....

- Hey, girl - Pepa Frias said bringing his mouth to ear Clementina - this seems a toast Mephistopheles.

Clementina
smiled faintly.

In fact, his face pale and thin doctor, her black hair and stirred,
and all in his eyes, but wished to appear innocent, they were filled
with irony, had something of Mephistopheles.

- At all times, has
existed in one form or another slavery.

There have been men for to live in the refinement of spiritual joys,
in the cultivation of the arts, luxury and elegance in the pleasures
provided by trade between intelligent, educated people, and other
men dedicated to providing the means to live in such So with a rough
and painful work.

Outcasts worked for the Brahmins, the helots to the Spartans, the Roman slaves, serfs to feudal
lords. And today not true? What does it matter that the laws be abolished slavery? Those working
at the bottom of this mine and absorb the poison that kills them,
if they are not slaves by the law are from hunger.

The result is identical. It is a law of nature, and therefore holy and respectable, that for each
enjoy others suffering .... You, beautiful ladies, you are the heirs of those illustrious Roman
ladies who sent their slaves to the mines start vermilion to beautify your face, and those other
Arabs who did bring to decorate their minarets in the palaces of Cordoba and Seville. For you
I offer, therefore, seized the soul with admiration and respect, as representatives on earth
of what is in it more sublime, love, beauty, joy.

The toast, even gallant, seemed bizarre.

Some of the more astute murmured. Grew the hostility against the young doctor was. Who said it
was lower than that quidam had wanted to "stay with them."

Rafael Alcántara had attempts at telling a provocative phrase, but warned in his eyes not let her
go without providing a serious disappointment and preferred to stay with her in the body. The
ladies looked at him more favorably.

We were very original.

Anyway, the toast was some painful impression did not fade Fuentes
but let the stream of funny paradoxes.

- Ladies, I do not toast -
which was told about - because I am no orator.

Hopefully soon is this an honorable distinction in Spain, which will soon be said with respect
to passing a guy down the street: "That is not he", as he says: "That does not have the large
cross Isabel la Católica ...."

The ladies laughed and celebrated the jokes.

But deep down, whether by the medical discourse or because the mine returned to inspire fear, he
felt a vague discomfort. All eyes sparkled with joy when it was announced that the cage ahead.
The last argument amounting shortly after beginning the ascent a distant song which was quickly
approaching, it sounded very close to them as if singing to her and
walked away quickly also lost beyond in the background without anyone
had seen.

It was a fantastic effect. What they heard was an Andalusian beach whose lyrics read:

Upstream upstream never water rise; in the world, downstream, everything goes downstream.

An engineer said casually:

- A crew of miners going down into the cage that serves as a counterweight
to it.

- You see, countess - Salabert said triumphantly addressing
the Countess of Cebal -.

      When they have mood to
      sing, do not be so unfortunate
      as you suppose.
      

The countess paused a moment and said after smiling sadly

- The song
is not very happy, Duke.

This was spoken in the upper chamber.

At the bottom, said with scornful tone Escosura the director of mines:

-
Do you know that this young doctor has been very unwise to cast their
materialistic ideas?

- Materialistic not know if it is.

Which boasts of being, and so I love the workers, is socialist.

-
Worse than worse!

- The truth is - Peñalver said with a sigh - that
the bottom of a mine is always out so socialist.

At nine o'clock at night, after eating at Villalegre, left the special
train which was lead to Madrid.

All became very excited about the trip. Expected to ecstasy friends with the story of underground
banquet.

The only one who suffered from them was Raymond.

The alternatives of joy and pain that made him pass Clementina flirting with him had broken
my heart.

Lately, seeing him so sad, so tired, had taken pity on the beautiful, we had sit beside him
in the car, and without scandal of the competition (because they were cured of ghosts) had talked
almost all night with him and finally had to sleep with her head on his shoulder.

Although the train dragged a sleeping-car, few had made use of it. Most preferred stay in the halls
chatting. Only at dawn, the dream of performing at all and was transposed stayed in his seat whimsical
postures, some of them little aesthetic.

Ramon Maldonado was at the height of his fame and fortune. Esperanza, judging from all appearances,
she loved him. We found off, so to speak, of the land, not only because of the natural elevation
of his soul, but for the pleasure of triumph. His City face shone like a god. Back and for all
the struggles, all the obstacles that your precious bitter before!

Forever free the bondage of pain, like the immortals, enjoyed calm, majestic, its apotheosis.

He
also sat next to the beloved of his heroic heart, and spoke for a few hours, with sweet repose,
of British ponies and large battles that the time is fought within the municipal corporation
in which he took part as active. Until, that conversation lulled by gentle, insinuating, the
naive girl was sleeping sweetly with his head on the pillow.

Ramon Maldonado watched. Watched and meditated on their luck happy. Divine dawn, climbing the heights
of the distant mountains, crossing the plains with swift flight, with its pink rose fingers
the curtains of the carriage and spreading a thin and unobtrusive clarity, without which he would
stopped thinking of her happiness.

Esperanza opened his eyes and gave him a tender smile of love, which vibrated until last strings
of his poetic soul.

The lark sang at that moment.

Then, Ramon, the god was increasingly separating more than men. Drunk with love and happiness
too, sang in her ear, her voice shaking, a portion of incoherent
sentences, daughters of divine madness.

The girl closed her eyes better hear harmonious music that ....

When he had exhausted the superlatives in the dictionary to paint his love, the sublime Councillor
wanted to finish his work of seduction to the beautiful rolling out
all the great things that could provide, as Satan did with Jesus.

"He was an only child, her parents were one hundred and ten thousand real income: in the next
elections for deputies to be submitted candidate Cortes by Navalperal, where he had family and
finances, and would leave the government with little to help him: as the Conservative Party
was in need of young people claim, he believed that in the short term could be secretary, and
who knows? perhaps later, in a combination, could obtain even overseas portfolio ...."

The girl always listened with closed eyes. Ramon increasingly inflamed, at the end this brilliant
list leaned his beloved and asked softly and moved:

- Do you love
me, sweetheart, I want?

The girl did not answer.

- Do you love me? Do you want? - He inquired.

Esperanza, without opening his eyes, finally responded dryly:

- No.

XIV

#
A to be.

#

Some weeks later, Ms Carmen disease is extremely aggravated