 Also this boy, skeptical for everything
that was not related to their selfishness, seemed infected by the concern general. When he awoke,
quoting her letter to the five p.m. also contained few words about the dreaded danger. Through their
way of love seemed to transpire concern in Paris. To go in search of lunch, the concierge, under
the pretext of giving welcome, had asked news. And in the restaurant, the cafe in the street,
always war ... the possibility of war with Germany ...

Desnoyers was optimistic. What could they mean these concerns for a man like him, just over twenty
days to live among Germans, crossing the Atlantic under the flag Empire? ...

He had left Buenos Aires on a steamer in Hamburg: the König Friedrich August. The world was in holy
calm when the ship away from land. Only white and mestizo Mexico revolutionary is exterminated,
that no one would believe that the man is an animal degenerate for peace. The people demonstrated
in the rest of the planet a unique wisdom. Even in the liner, the tiny world of passengers of different
nationalities, like a piece of the future society as a test implemented at the present time,
a sketch of the future world, without borders or racial antagonisms.

One morning, the music board, which was heard every Sunday the Choir of Luther, awoke to the sleepers
of the staterooms ence with the most unheard of dawns. Desnoyers He rubbed his eyes still live believing
in the dream hallucinations. Roared the German brass La Marseillaise in the corridors and decks.
The bartender, smiling at his amazement, he ended to explain the event: "Fourteenth of July."
In the German steamers are celebrated as large parties own all the nations that provide cargo
and passengers. Their captains scrupulous care to fulfill the rites of the religion of the flag and
the memory history. The bunting looks Republic smallest ship in his honor. It is a fun more,
which helps to combat the monotony of travel and serves the goals of the propaganda Germanic. For
the first time the big day in France was celebrated in a German ship, and while the musicians
were walking through the various floors a runaway Marseillaise, sweaty and hair down, the morning
groups commented on the event. "What delicacy! - Said the ladies South America -. These Germans
are not as regular as they seem. It is an attention ... something very distinguished. And
yet some believe that they and France are going to hit ?...»

The French contadísimos aboard the ship were amazed, as if they had grown disproportionately to the
public consideration. There were three of anything else: an old jeweler who came to visit their
branches in America and two young brokers, rue de la Paix, the modosita and shy people on board,
Vestal bright-eyed and snub nose, which kept apart, without allowing the slower growth in this
environment unwelcome. By gala banquet night there. In the bottom of the room, the French
flag and the Empire formed a colorful and crazy curtain. All German passengers were on their
tails and their ladies displayed the whiteness of their necks. Servants' uniforms shone like
in a day of great magazine. At dessert sounded the clatter of a knife on a glass, and There
was silence. The commander was about to speak. And the brave sailor, who joined his functions
nautical obligation to make speeches at banquets and dances open with the lady greater respect,
began development of a string of words like rubbings tablets, with long intervals of silence
hesitantly. Desnoyers knew a little German, as memories of their relationships with relatives
he had in Berlin, and was able to catch a few words. The commander repeated at every time "peace"
and "friends." A neighbor at the table, trade commission, offered as a performer, with the obsequiousness
of living of the propaganda.

- The commander asks God to keep the peace between Germany and France and expects each will
be even more friends of both peoples.

Another speaker raised in the same table in the ocean. It was the most respected German passengers,
a wealthy industrialist who came to Düsseldorf to visit his correspondents of America. Never
identified by name. Had the title of director of Commerce and for his countrymen was Comerzienrath
Herr and his wife was given the title of Frau Rath. "Ms Counselor, much younger than her important
husband, had drawn from the beginning of the trip Desnoyers care. She, meanwhile, made an exception
for the young Argentine, abdicating its title from the first conversation. "My name is Berta,
"Deng said, like a duchess of Versailles to a nice Abbe seated at his feet. The husband also
protested when they heard that Desnoyers called him "adviser" as his countrymen: "My friends
call me captain. I sent a Landsturm company. "And the gesture with which the industrial accompanied these
words revealed the melancholy of a man does not understand, despising
the honors he has to think only of those who do not possess.

While delivering the speech, Julio examined his small head and strong neck, which gave some resemblance
to a dog fight. Imaginary oppressor saw the high neck uniform on their edges giving rise to a double
stud of red grease. The whiskers jutting and stickers took a strong push. His voice was sharp
and dry, as if to shake off the words ... So the emperor was to launch
his harangues.

And the bourgeois bellicose, with instinctive simulation shrugged his left arm, placing his hand on
the hilt of a sword invisible.

Despite its fierce gesture and speech control, all German listeners laughed loudly at the first
words, like men who appreciate the sacrifice of a Herr Comerzienrath
when he deigns to entertain a meeting.

- He says funny things the
French - the interpreter said quietly -.

But they are not offensive.

Julio had guessed something like this to hear the word repeatedly Franzen. Realized about what he
said: "Franz, big kids, happy, funny, improvident. The things we could do together, the Germans
and they, if you forget the bitterness of the past! " Listeners Germans no longer laughing.
The counselor resigned his irony, a great irony, Overwhelmingly,
many tons in weight, big as the ship.

Now developed the serious of his harangue, and the same commission seemed shaken.

- He says, sir - he continued - who would like France to be very large and one day march together against
other enemies ... Against others!

And winking, smiling mischievously, with the same smile of common intelligence awakening in all this
allusion to the mysterious enemy.

In the end, the captain raised his glass director for France. "Hoc!" He shouted as if you send
an evolution to its reserve soldiers. Three times he gave the cry, and the whole mass Germanic
upended, answered with a "Hoc!" similar to a roar, while the music installed in the anteroom,
broke to play the Marseillaise.

Desnoyers was moved. A shiver of excitement up his spine. Became moist eyes, and drink the champagne
he thought he had swallowed some tears.

He wore a name French, had French blood, and that they made those gringos - the more often seemed
ridiculous and ordinary - was worthy of appreciation. The subjects of the kaiser celebrating the
big date of the revolution ... Believed to be witnessing a great
historic event.

- Very good - he said to other South Americans who
occupied the adjacent mesas -.

Admittedly who have been very kind.

Then, with the vehemence of his twenty-seven years old, rushed into the anteroom to the jeweler,
throwing his silence in the face. It was the only citizen of France who was on board. I should
have said four words of thanks. The party ended badly because of him.

- And why you have not discussed, the son of French? - Said the other.

- I am an Argentine citizen - said in July.

And it left the jeweler, as he, thinking that "could have spoken," gave explanations to those around
him. It was very dangerous mix in diplomatic affairs. In addition, he "did not had instructions
from his government. " And for a few hours it was believed a man who had been about to play a great
role in history.

Desnoyers spent the rest of the night in the smoking room, attracted by the presence of the
'lady counselor. "

Landsturm captain, moving a big cigar between his mustache, playing poker with other compatriots who
followed him in order of dignity and wealth.

His partner remained at his side much of the evening, witnessing the ebb and flow of the waiters
bocks loaded, not daring to intervene in this huge consumption of beer. His concern was to keep
an empty seat next to her to occupy the Desnoyers.

He had man- more "distinguished" on board because he drank champagne at every meal. He was of
medium height, brown, with a small foot - that forced her to pick their own under her skirt
- and his face appeared as a triangle in two tresses of hair smooth, black, shiny, which lacquer
plates. The opposite type of men who surrounded her. Also lived in Paris the city she had never
seen, after numerous trips in both hemispheres.

- Oh, Paris! Paris! - Said opening her eyes and pursing his lips to express his admiration when he
talked alone with the Argentinian -. How I would go to him!

And to tell him things that Paris was allowed certain confidences about the pleasures Berlin,
but with blushing modesty, admitting in advance that the world is much, much more, and she wanted
to know.

Julio, now walk around the Chapel Atonement, he remembered with some remorse Minister's wife
Erckmann. He, who had made the trip to America by a woman to raise money and marry her! ...
But immediately find excuses for their behavior. No one would know what happened. In addition,
he was not an ascetic, and represented a Erckmann Berta tempting friendship amid the sea. To remember,
I saw a racehorse imagination large, lean, rabid and long shanks. It was a modern German did
not recognize other defect to his country that the heaviness of their
women, fighting in his person the national danger with all kinds of
food methods.

The food was for her torment, and the parade the bocks in a torture den tantalesco. The slenderness
is achieved and maintained by tension of the will left more visible the robustness of the scaffolding,
strong skeleton with powerful jaws and large teeth, healthy, dazzling, perhaps gave rise irreverent
comparison to Desnoyers. "It's thin, but enormous," it said at the examination. But then he also
declared her most distinguished women on board, distinguished to the ocean, elegant style to Munich,
with colored dresses that were unidentifiable Persian art and remember the cartoons of medieval manuscripts.
The husband admired Berta elegance, secretly regretting sterility almost like a crime of high treason.
The German nation was great for the fruitfulness of their wives.

The Kaiser, with its hyperbole artist, had stated that the German real beauty must have the
height from of five feet.

When Desnoyers entered the den to take the seat reserved for him counselor, wealthy husband and
their comrades had the deck inactive on the green carpet. Herr Rath continued his speech with
friends, and listeners were removed the cigar from his lips to launch
grunts of approval.

The presence of July caused a general smile of kindness. It was France that came to fraternize
with them. They knew their father was French, and that was enough for that welcomed him as if
came straight out of the palace of the Quai d'Orsay, representing
to the high diplomacy of the Republic.

The proselytizing zeal made them all grant him Suddenly a disproportionate importance.

- About Us - continued the Minister, staring as if expecting to Desnoyers him a solemn declaration
- we want to live in friendship with France.

The young man nodded in July, not displayed inattentive.

He looked very good people were not enemies. For him, it could be said that friendship as
they wanted. All he was interested at that time was certain his knee looked below the table, transmitting
its gentle warmth through a double curtain of silk.

- But France
- the industry continued plaintively - shows surly with us.

Ago years that our emperor is reaching out with noble loyalty, and she pretends not to see it
... That you recognize that it is wrong.

Here Desnoyers thought he should say something, so he did not guess their real concerns.

- Maybe you do not do enough. If you returned, above all, what they took! ...

There was a stunned silence, as if the ship sounded the alarm. Some of those who had the cigarette
to her lips remained motionless hand to two fingers mouth, eyes wide open. But there was the captain
of the Landsturm to shape his silent protest.

- Return! - Said in
a voice that seemed muffled by the sudden swelling of neck -.

We have no need to return anything, because nothing we have removed. What we have we won with
our heroism.

The hidden knee became more suggestive, like the young man to advise
caution with its sweet friction.

- Do not say such things - sighed
Berta -.

That's just what Republicans say tainted Paris. A young man so distinguished, it has been in Berlin
and has relatives in Germany!

...

But Desnoyers to any statement made haughty tone felt a hereditary impulse aggressiveness, and said
coldly:

- It's like if I take away your watch and then I propose that we should be friends, forgetting
what happened. Although you might forget, the first thing I would give him back the clock.

Refused to answer so many things at once the counselor Erckmann that
stammered, jumping from one idea to another: compare the reconquest
of Alsace to a robbery!

... A German soil! ... The race ... language ... history ...

- But where has their willingness to be German? - Asked the young man calmly -. When you have
asked your opinion? ...

Councilor hesitated, as if he doubted between falling on the insolent or crush with contempt.

- Young man, you do not know what it says - Majesty said at last -. You do not understand Argentine
the affairs of Europe.

And the others nodded, suddenly stripping of citizenship that had
been attributed shortly before.

The counselor, with a rough military had turned back, and taking cards, letters distributed.
Resumed the game. Desnoyers, seeing himself isolated by this contempt quiet, felt like stopping
the game with violence. But the knee hidden advising was calm and no less invisible hand sought
his right hand and pressed sweetly. This was sufficient to restore his composure. "Ms advisor"
continued with eyes Fixed the progress of the game. He looked well, and an evil grin slightly
contracted ends your mouth while you mentally say, by way of consolation, "Captain, Captain! ... Do
not know what to expect. "

On the mainland would not have come closer to these men, but life on an ocean liner, with its inevitable
promiscuity, forced into oblivion. The next day, the counselor and his friends were looking
for him, exaggerating his kindness to erase all memory of irritation. He was a young "Distinguished",
belonged to a wealthy family, and they all had in their country stores and other business. All he
cared was to mention only his French origin. It was Argentine and all were interested in chorus
to the greatness of their nation and all nations of the Americas
South, where they had correspondents and business, exaggerating its
importance as if they were large Powers, gravely discussing the actions
and words of political figures, giving to understand that in Germany
there was no one not to worry about their future, preaching to all
them a future glory, a reflection of the Empire, provided that they
be kept under the influence Germanic.

Despite such praise, Desnoyers did not show the same diligence as before at the hour poker. The
counselor retired to his cabin earlier than usual. Proximity the equator gave him an irresistible
sleep, leaving her husband, continued with the cards in his hand. July, meanwhile, had mysterious
occupations that only allowed him to cover up after midnight.

With the precipitation of a man you want to be seen to avoid suspicion,
went into the den talking loudly and went to sit with the husband
and his comrades.

The game was over, and a waste of beer and thick Hamburg cigars served to celebrate the success
of the greedy. It was time for the expansions Germanic, intimacy between men, slow and heavy
jokes, stories uploaded color.

The presiding director with all its grandeur these pranks from friends, brainy Hanseatic merchants
enjoyed the ports of large loans in the Deutsche Bank or shopkeepers installed in the republics
of Silver with innumerable family. He was a warrior a captain, and to celebrate every joke
slow with a robust laugh that swelled neck, believed be at the bivouac among his comrades in arms.

In honor of the South Americans, tired of walking around the deck,
came to hear what said the gringos, storytellers poured into Spanish
thanks and licentious tales awakened in her memory for the beer plentiful.

July admired the easy laugh that they were endowed with all these men.

While the foreigners remained impassive, they laughed with loud laughter, leaning back in their
seats. And when the German audience remained cold, the storyteller appealed to an infallible remedy
to remedy their lack of success.

- A Kaiser told this story, and when he heard kaiser, kaiser laughed a lot.

No need to say more.

Everyone laughed, "ha, ha, ha!" With a spontaneous laugh, but brief; a laugh on three hits, as the
prolonging could be interpreted as a lack of respect the majesty.

Close to Europe, a flurry of news came out to meet the ship. Telegraph employees wireless worked
incessantly. One night, Desnoyers entering the den, he saw the Germanic notable slapping and
animated faces. Do not drink beer had German pop bottles of champagne, and Frau Minister, impressed
no doubt by events abstained from down to his cabin. Erckmann captain, seeing the young Argentinian,
offered him a drink.

- It's war - said with enthusiasm - the war that comes ... It's about time!

Desnoyers made a gesture of astonishment. War! ... What war is this? ... I had read, as all on
the display board a radiogram dinette realizing that the government Austria had just sent an
ultimatum to Serbia, although this will produjese the slightest emotion.
Despised Balkan issues.

There were complaints of lousy people, which represented the world's attention, distracting
him from more serious business. How could he be interested in this event the warlike counsel?
The two nations would eventually be understood. Diplomacy serves some times for something.

- No - fiercely insisted the German - it is war, holy war. Russia will sustain Servia, and we support
our ally ... What will France do? Do you know what will France? ...

July shrugged with a bad mood, as if asking to leave him in peace.

- It's war - continued the Minister - the preventive war that we need. Russia grows too fast and
is preparing against us.

Four more years of peace, and you're done your strategic railways
and military strength, coupled with its allies, worth as much as ours.
Best is to give a good shot now. We must seize the opportunity ...
War! Preventive war!

His whole clan listened in silence. Some do
not seem to feel the contagion of his enthusiasm. War! ... With imagination
businesses were paralyzed, the correspondent for bankruptcy Banks
cut loans ... a catastrophe more frightful to them that the killings
battles. But approved with grunts and nods the fierce declamations
of Erckmann. He was a Herr Rath, and also an officer. Should be in
the secret destination from their homeland, and that was enough to
drink in silence for the success of the war.

The young man thought
that the director and his fans were drunk. "Look, Captain - said conciliatory
tone - what you say may be illogical. "How could agree a war to the
industrious German? At times it was expanding its activities: monthly
conquered a new market, every year the trade balance appeared increased
in unprecedented proportions. Sixty years ago few had to manning its
vessels with the drivers punished Berlin by the police. Now its commercial
and naval fleets sailed every ocean, and there was no Germanic port
where the goods do not occupy the largest share of the docks. Only
needed to continue living this way, stay away from the warlike adventures.
Twenty years of peace, and the Germans are the owners of the world's
markets, beating England her teacher yesterday, in this fight without
blood. And all this would be exposed - such as playing his entire
fortune to a letter - in a fight he could be unfavorable? ...

- No,
the war - insisted the Minister angrily - preventive war