 Heart and soul. "

Of entertainment served to all home and outside. It was a noisy function immediately down to Frasquito
are singing songs in funeral, and saying a thousand jokes applied him and the Benin, insensitive
to the outpourings of the vile villain, got into his car, leading the Andalusian gentleman
like a bundle of clothes, and ordered the driver to bite Imperial
Street, snuff taking care of the horse well.

It was not, as is easy to suppose, loose Dona Francisca surprise to see that you got in the house
apparently dying body, transported between Benin and a porter. Poor Lady had spent the afternoon
and evening in mortal anxiety, and saw a strange thing, believed to have turned the dream or direction.
But the naughty maid hastened to reassure saying that this was no corpse, and its shabby could
be inferred, but sick grave, D. himself Frasquito Ponte Delgado, born in Algeciras, who had
found on the street, and without going into further explanation of the unprecedented event, came
to comfort the Doña Paca troubled spirit with the betrothal took news that its tough new bag odd,
it adds up to attend to more urgent commitment, and breathing for
a few days.

- "Oh, you take my weight off of my soul - said Mrs.
raising hands -.

The God bless you. We're in a position to a charity, picking up this unfortunate ... See? God
in one time point and supports us and says it protects. The favor and obligation accompanying health.

- We must take things as they have ... wagging the thunder.

- And
where to put this poor scarecrow? - Doña Paca said to Frasquito feeling
that, although I was not unconscious, barely speak or move, lying
on the holy soil arrimadito to the wall.

"

And after marriage and Antonito Obdulia had been sold these beds, a dispute arose domestic installation,
Nina decided to propose to assemble your bed the little room in the
dining room to put it to the poor sick.

She would sleep on a mattress on the mat, and it would, and would if it were possible to boot
the wretched old nails death.

"But my soul Nina, have you thought through the load that we have caught up with ...? You who
can not, take me back, and said the other.

Do you think that we are ourselves to get us a protective one? ... But just tell me: Was D.
Romualdo blessed who ...?

- Yes, ma'am, "replied the old ...-- Rumaldo, that stunning was not prepared to lie.

- Blessed, blessed a thousand times sir!

- She ... Teresa Rabbit.

-
What, woman?

- I say ... But you are not aware of what I mean?

-
You said ... Perchance a hunter D. Romualdo?

- Hunter?

- As you
said do not know what a rabbit.

- He does not hunt, but he was given
... I do not know ... so many things ... partridge, rabbit, field
... Then this afternoon ...

- I, I said, 'Benin, to see how I put
this rabbit morning that brought me ...'.

- Asked if there were to
be in gazpacho or rice, were disputed, and as I said nothing and I
burst into tears, 'Benin, what do you have?

Benin, what's wrong ?...'.

In short, rabbit's foot took the trouble to tell him that I saw ...».

Doña Paca convinced no longer thought only Frasquito install, which
did not seem realized what was happening.

At last when he had gone to bed, recognized the widow of Juarez and
showing their gratitude with handshakes and warm sigh, said:

"This
child, this mother ... You are the spitting image of Montijo.

- What
does this man?

- Gives because all we seem a. ..

I do not know who ... the emperors of France ... Finally, quit.

- Am I in the palace in the Plaza del Angel? - Ponte said considering
the miserable alcove with missing eyes.

- Yes, sir ... Arrópese now;'re
very still to take the dream.

Then he will make a good broth ... and live. "

They left him alone, and began again Benina the street, eager to cover
the opening to creditors rude, that impertinent and shameless pressure
overwhelmed the two women.

God great pleasure of bringing them to the harsh hills that they had made more provisions, was
to the streets of Rue, and with her basket full of good food and the heart of hope, thinking freedom
from the shame of begging, at least for a couple of days, returned
home.

Methodical promptly went to work in the kitchen, accompanied by his
mistress, who was also smiling and joyful.

"You know what happened to me - told Benina - at the time you've
been away?

Well I was dormidita on the couch, and dreamed that two men came home grave clothes black. Were
D. Morquecho and D. Francisco José María Porcell, my countrymen,
who came to involved the death of D. Pedro Jose Garcia of the Antrines,
carnal uncle of my husband.

- Poor lord is dead! - Nina cried with
all my heart.

- And that D. Peter Joseph, who is one of the first
rich men of the Highlands ...

- But tell me, is what I dreamed account
or is it?

- Wait, woman.

These two gentlemen came, D. Francisco and D. José María, a physician, the another town clerk ... they
came to tell me that the Antrines Garcia, uncle flesh of my Antonio,
I was appointed probate ...

- Ya ...

- And ... the thing is clear
... as such had no direct succession, naming heirs ...

- Who?

-
Be quiet, woman ... It left half of his assets to my children Obdulia
and Antonito, and the other half to Frasquito Ponte.

What do you think?

- That the blessed Lord should make him a saint.

- They told D. Francisco and D. José María you were looking for days to let me know inheritance,
and wondering here and there, finally found out the address of this house ... Say by whom? by the
priest D. Romualdo, already proposed to the bishop, who told I also had picked Mr. de Ponte
... 'So - I said, laughing - that come to offer you our respect, my lady, kill two birds with one
stone. "

- But let's accounts: this is, as they say, dreamed.

- Sure: Have not you heard that I fell asleep on the couch?

... As these two gentlemen who were to visit, died thirty years ago,
when I was the girlfriend of Antonio ... just imagine ... and García
de los Antrines was very old then.

I have not heard from him ... Yes, all has been the work of a dream,
but so vividly that even I find that I am looking ... Te I tell it
to laugh ... no, it is laughable that dreams ...

- Dreams, dreams,
whatever they want - Nina said - are also from God, and who will know
what is true and what is false?

- Cabal ... Who tells you that behind
or below or above this world we see, there is no another world where
people live who have died?

... And who tells you that dying is nothing fashion and lifestyle? ...

- Below, underneath is all that - said the other meditatively -.

I make the dream case because it could happen, a comparison, that
those who come here go over there and bring us the remedy for our
ills.

Below ground there is another world, and the point is to know how
and when we can talk to the living Soterraña.

They have to know how badly we here, and we dream we see how well
you go over there ... I do not know if I explain ... say there is
no justice, and for the Haig, will dream whatever we please, and dreaming,
a guess, here we will bring justice.

"

Doña Paca replied with a string of sighs drawn from the depths of
his chest, and Benin was launched, with fever and tenacity of a fixed
idea, to think again about the wonderful spell.

Restless tinkering in the kitchen, my mind's eye, I saw only the pot of seven bujeros, laurel stick,
clothing, and prayer ... Démontrer of prayer! This really that was hard!

XXIII

Everything was fine the next morning: Don Frasquito improving hour
by hour, and the entendederas middle state clearly, Doña Paca happy,
well-stocked home vittles, that the next day and insured, so the poor
could Benina rest of his pitiful bid in San Sebastian.

But to be so necessary to sustain the comedy of their care at the home of church, went as usual, the
basket on his arm, ready to keep the morning and do something useful. Upon leaving his mistress
said: "I think we'll have to make a gift our D. Romualdo ... It should show that we are grateful
and well educated. Bring from me two bottles of Champagne a good brand to accompany them stew,
you do today, the rabbit.

- But she's crazy, lady?

Do you know what they cost two bottles of Champagne? We pawn for three months. You will always
be the same. For like both look good, is now so poor. And we will give when we drop the lottery,
because today is not going to look I who give one penny at a tenth
of those three.

- Well, well: go with God.

"

And it was the lady to talk to Frasquito, which was animated and talkative. One and one evoked
memories of land they were born Andalusian, raising families, people and events; you talk and
talk, Doña Francisca walked out the registration of his dream, but was saved well to tell the
citizen. "Tell me, Ponte: What has become of D. Pedro Jose Garcia of the Antrines?. " After
a painful espurgo in obscure folders of your memory, said Vial that
D. Peter had died the year of the Revolution.

"Go, go, and I thought he was still alive. Do you know who inherited their property?

- As his son Rafael, who has not wanted to marry.

And goes for old.

It could be that will remember us, your children from you and me, as it has closer relatives.

- Ay! do not doubt you, will remember ...-- Doña Paca said with great animation in his eyes and the
word -. If not agreed, would be a pig ... What I said D. Morquecho Francisco and D. José María
Porcell ...

- When?

- Makes ... I do not know how long.

Truth who have gone to a better life. But I think I am watching ... Were surrogates of Antrines
Garcia, is not it?

- Yes, ma'am. I also tried them a lot.

They were friends of my house and I have very present them in my
memory ... I think I am seeing with his old cut black coat ...

-
So, so.

- Its sole neckties, and those hats that looked like the
tower of Santa Maria ...».

Continued the conversation with this vague fluctuation between reality and imagination, and
therefore Benina up the street, down the street, and with a clear mind, calm the spirit by
possession of a rate not less than three dollars and a half, I thought that all of tracamundana
Almudena spell was simply deceived fools.

More likely to see success in the lottery, that is, more than say,
a work of blind chance, because who says that does not go through
the air, an angel or a demon invisible takes out the big ball, knowing
beforehand who owns the number?

Why things are so rare: for example, that is distributed the prize among many poor people who
came together to that end, making this a real, the other one peseta.

With such ideas came to think who would give a share modest, as one tenth acquire it seemed to
him many adventures. With his partner Petra Fourth and kilo, which proved fortunate in almost all
backgrounds, did not want bills, better be understood for this business
Polished mate begging in the parish, which had combinations of moves
that made lotteries in neighboring Burrero Obdulia; and to take her
in his house before she would go to ask, he quickened his pace towards
the Street Head, and gave background on the establishment of asses
milk.

In the stables of those peaceful beasts Pulido gave shelter to the
dairy honest, good people and humble.

A Burrera sister of tickets sold on the streets, and an uncle of Burrero, which had the same business
in the same street and house, years ago, the fat had been removed
and retired to his people where he bought land.

The crowd was perpetuated, as in the establishment, habit forming vicious, and the date of
this history, what had spent in fifteen burreros years of plays,
they could have won triple the asses they had.

Benina was lucky to find the whole family together, back the asses of his morning excursion.
While I devoured these bran, the sound is entertained in making calculations of probabilities,
and appraise the reasons could be found certainty that come out winning the next day 5005, which
had a tenth. Pulido, examining the case with their powerful inside view, that the blindness of
the eyes prodigious body is increased, clinched the conviction of the burreros, and in a prophetic
tone told them so true was that the 5005 award would, as there is a God in Heaven and the Devil
Hell. Needless to say that the claim fell on that stubborn Benina family as a bomb, and that the
first impulse was to deny all involvement at all seeking, because it was tantamount to give
him lots of money.

Peaks the beggar, saying that was three quarters to throw in a decimito, for her, and this bold
stroke was its effect. Finally, it was agreed that if she bought the tenth, they would take
him half, giving it a real participation of two the magical 5,005, number safe, as safe as looking
pregnant. This was done: left Benin and took a little while one tenth of 4,844, which, seen
by others, and heard singing by blind, controlled the gang lottery throughout the greater confusion
and bewilderment, as if lucky mysterious art had passed from one to another number. Finally,
made themselves the treatment combinations to please everyone, and spread the papers Burrero
participation the old staying with six real in his and two on the other. Pulido went grumbling and
went to his parish in a bad mood, saying that this church had pocritona been to remove the
lot, the burreros Obdulia be ranted against, saying they paid bought bread and pots of flowers,
and that the landlord was going to plant in the street, and Benin
went to see the girl, whom he found in the hands of the hairdresser,
who was trying to fix a pretty head.

That day her in-laws had ordered meatballs and marinated sardines; Luquitas had come home at
six o'clock, and still slept like a puppy. Thought the girl go for a ride, eager to see gardens, trees,
vehicles, smart people, and hairdresser told him to go to Retiro, where would these things, and all the
beasts of the world and also swans, which are a comparative, long neck geese. Knowing that Frasquito
patient, was collected at the home of Doña Paca, the girl was sincere grief, and wanted go see him,
but took it off Benina head. Better to let him rest for a couple of days, avoiding conversations
delusions, which upset the brain. Concurring with these discrete reasons Obdulia goodbye to
her maid, persisting in going for a walk, and the other olive-hurriedly took to the streets
of Ruda, where deudillas want to pay little money. Along the way he thought he should give up some of
the excessive amount spent on lottery and this order was intended
to find the blind Moor for me to play a quarter.

Safer this was not the operation of calling the spirits Soterrana ...

This thought, when he found himself face to face with Petra and Diego, who came to sell, bringing
between the two, hand for hand, basket with ordinary notions trinkets. They stood with wanted
to tell you something wonderful and certainly the interest: "Do not know, master? Almudena the're
looking for.

- Me? But I want to talk to him, see if he wants to take me ...

- It will take your measurements. That said ...

- What?

- That's furious ... Mad lost. To me nearly killed me this morning of the dislike of me. Finally,
the dislocation.

- Moved to Santa Casilda ... Cambroneras be.

- It has given the tarantaina, dancing on one foot alone. "

Burst into laughter the two sluts out of tune, and Benin did not know what to say. Understanding
that the African was ill, said he thought going to San Sebastian after her, to what replied the
others had not come to ask, and if the teacher wanted to find you, seek them Arganzuela toward
or into the street of the Rock, since in that direction they had seen little before. Benina to
where it was told him, briefly released in the street matters of Ruda, and after circling
the brook and up and down repeatedly Rock Street, saw the Moroccan,
who left the house of a blacksmith.

Came to him, took him by arm y. ..

"Release me, release me you said the blind man ...-- shuddering from head to foot, as if receives
an electric shock -.

Poor you, winning you ... I kill you. "

Alarmose the poor woman, warning in the face of his friend very great
confusion: contracted and lips swelled with convulsive vibrations,
disfiguring his usual physiognomic expression; hands and legs trembled
and his voice was hoarse.

"What are you, Almudenilla? What fly has bitten you?

- Chop you me, fly bad ... Viner me ... I want to talk tigo. Bad Muqui be you ...

- We go where you want, man. If you think you're crazy! ".

Fell to the Round, and Morocco, knowing that land, led to the gas factory, carried away by her
friend by the arm. Passed by narrow paths to walk the Acacias, without the good woman could
obtain a clear explanation of the reasons that strange uneasiness.

"Let's sit here - Benina said upon reaching the tar factory -;'m cansadita.

- We do not ... more abaixo ...».

And they burst through a very steep trail, opened in the embankment.

Had shot the two slope if Benina not hold his moderating pace, and
it sure where put the plant.

They came finally to a place lower than the ride, broken ground,
full slags seem lavas of a volcano left behind homes, grounded at
higher altitudes the heads of them had roofs of homes before poor,
their lowest level feet.

In the riots of that hollow distinguished miserable huts, and far
away, oppressed between the moles of the Asylum of Santa Cristina
and workshop Chainsaw, the neighborhood injuries, where destitute
families swarm.

They both sat down. Almudena, taking snorts, wiped the copious sweat from his forehead. Benina
did not take his eyes, listening to his movements, as it did not
have them all, seeing alone with the mad Moroccan place so lonely.

"Let's see ... masters ... to see why I'm so bad and so misleading. Why?

- Poique you n'gañar me. I knowledge acquired you, you quiries other ... Yes, yes ... Lord Bunite,
cabaiero Beau ... you wanted him ... Weasel him home sick ... You bring him your house ... knowledge
acquired yours ... knowledge acquired ... rich him, sir him ...

- Who told you these potatoes, Almudena? - Said the good woman, laughing with all his soul.

- Do not deny you anything ... Your n'fadar me you me ...». riyendo

By speaking thus possessed of a sudden fury, rose, and before Benina could sense the danger that
threatened her, she burst upon the club in full strength. Thanks that could save the unhappy
head apart strongly, but the shoulder, no. She wanted to snatch the stick, but before that I
tried got another whack at shoulder, and a third in the hip ... The
best defense was the leak.

In a blink eye, the old woman was ten paces of the blind. It tried to follow, she sought him
turns, is placed in a safe place, and he vented his furious blows in the air and soil.