 Peace Pactóse end,
and if they returned to start wars, have not been on between the three barons, or by the conquest
of a source, but between powerful rulers and the possession of immense areas with mountains,
rivers, forests and crowded cities. And not one to destroy another poorly armed people, but
hundreds of thousands of men, armed with the most scientific means destruction which collide and
destroy each other. Surely humanity progresses, but seeing as dreadful conflict, we must doubt
sometimes.

So people seem blissful removed in the high valleys that have never suffered the evils of war,
at least, in spite of the ebb and flow of hosts in up, ended up early to retain its independence.
Quite a few mountain villages, protected by huge masses of rock attached to one another, have had
the happiness to remain Free. You know you should not only the heroism of their hearts, to the strength
of their arms, to the union of the wills have not been enslaved by its powerful neighbors. Also
have to thank the great Alps, those were the columns that have very firm defended the entrance
to the temple.

CHAPTER XVIII

The idiot # #

Alongside these strong men, of those
brave and penetrating chest solid look steadily climbing over the
rocks, foul arrástranse mass of living flesh, idiots Mumps slope.

And many of these masses there can not even crawl, remain stink sitting on chairs, moving
to one side to another body and head, hanging down the by the sticky slime rags. These beings
do not know how to walk, and some of them have failed learn the essential art of taking food to
the mouth: it feeds them, they are prime, and when they notice that the ingested food down into
the stomach, contented grunting exhale light. These are the last representatives of humanity,
"whose face was created to look the stars. "What saved enormous range between the ideal head
of the Pythian Apollo and the poor cretin, eyes, no eyes and laughter that seems to grin! Is even
more beautiful head reptile, because it corresponds to their type, and do not expect to see
it otherwise, while face of shockingly stupid is a degenerate. Although a man like us from afar,
not even the intelligence of the animal appears on her face.

For more pain, feelings are revealed rudimentary in being unhappy, not always are good. Some idiots
are lousy: gnash their teeth, throw ferocious roar, make angry gestures
with the clumsy arms, kick the ground, and if not prevented, would
eat meat and would drink the blood of those who selflessly care: does
not matter that anger to the mountain, good and candid.

Why not have stopped giving to the poor idiots that name of idiots, of Cresti or innocence, imagining
that these people, unable to reason their actions and come to the understanding of evil, enjoy
the privilege of having no sin consciousness. Christians from the cradle to the force have to
go straight to heaven.