 Plácido refugee in the abbey, it never forgot the insult, but kept his memory hidden in the
center of the soul hurt. The horror that caused her back again against the father Elvira, humility
and resignation, and other religious feelings bowed his spirit and excited him to desist from
revenge. And shamefully and without vengeance not want to live in world, he decided to make
the life of the cloister. Until the day that insult to his mother awoke in him again the innate
ferocity, was the most patient and sweet the Cenobites. Launched as the world again, with
twenty years of age, breath and spirit and with horse and weapons, Where it had to go Plácido D.
Castle Fruela to ask for a strict accounting of all?

IV

Without pausing only to take the necessary break, came to the house
where Plácido had past childhood.

Trusting in God in his law and their bravery, undaunted, went at the door of the castle.

Everything was moved. Around, solitude and silence. Although it was noon, Plácido saw no men weapons
nor peasants.

The drawbridge, lying on the pit, leaving open the entrance. Berroqueña stone shield, which was
on the front door was covered in black mourning cloth.

Soon, an old servant, the only person who found and that he had removed the bracket, learned of
the great misfortune that overwhelmed that family. D. Fruela, accused of high treason, was
in Oviedo and should be sentenced to death. His accuser was D. Raymond, Butler Palace. Three
men of the house of D. Raimundo were ready to support the charge in open palisade against defenders
D. Fruela, which had appealed to Trial God. But D. Raymond was so powerful and feared, and
his arrogance was unheard D. Fruela so hated, that nobody came to his defense. There were only three
days to the deadline expires. No Plácido well knew all this, the old resentment became pity
in his generous soul, and resolved to be the champion who had offended him so roughly, to prove
his innocence and save him death. In the castle there was no one but the old server. Doña Aldonza
and Elvira Oviedo had gone to lie to the king's feet and ask forgiveness,
albeit with very little hope, be very righteous ruler.

Anyway, the honor of the family would stained.

Plácido available without delay to leave for Oviedo, but before the old servant told him and
how much more expensive and Elvira Dona Aldonza had thought of him
during his absence; said they had left for him to present to receive
him and bring him if by that appeared at the castle.

The old man was by this and was given a place.

Was a strong shield, in which iron contained in enamel steel on a red field, a hawk, his head covered
by the hood jesses and grabbed by a white hand that looked like a woman.

- You have the right shoulder - said the old - recorded with indelible mark, like a hawk to the
shield.

For he'll one day be recognized and know who your parents.

Meanwhile my wife and daughter will declare and last name Knight of Azor, and you get to witness it
this pledge. Concédate God, Knight of Azor, good success in battle and they love and I want.

V

Three
days later, just hours before the deadline, after standing in Oviedo
and prepare themselves for battle, the trumpets sounded and the arena
became the Knight of Azor, with hood pierced and the spear in cuja.

In high and loud voice proclaimed the innocence of D. Fruela called
slanderous to accuse him, and challenged three, successively or together
against himself.

D. champions Raimundo were appearing successively. The fighting was very short.

The Knight of Azor, with astonishing skill and bravery, got within half an hour the three bites
the dust, badly wounded one of them.

The crowd surrounding the arena burst into boisterous applause and
cheers.

El Caballero the Azor was carried in triumph to the palace and placed in the royal chamber.

The
king, informed of any event, he longed to see him, and even more
anxious as the noble and unfortunate sister, the Infanta Dona Ximena,
who was with King at that time.

- Knight of Azor - said the princess
before the King speak - why you wear a hawk enamel on the shield?

-
High Lady - Placido said - because I have also stamped on the right
shoulder, as indelible mark.

Doña Ximena then placed with loving eyes hard on the beautiful face of Placido and he imagined
he saw the Count of Saldaña, as it was in its very lusty youth, twenty years ago.

He could not restrain Dona Ximena, approached the young man, he shook
in his arms and covered him face with kisses, exclaiming:

- My son,
my son!

The deposed king severity, and addressing the young, also shook in his arms, and said:

- I recognize you, you are my nephew Bernardo do you market the property and manor Strong Carpio.
As Bernardo del Carpio will be henceforth known and famous in all
countries at all ages.

Forgive your father, leave the prison and will be the legitimate spouse my sister.

Indeed, the king kept his promise.

The Count of Saldaña Luna left the castle where was locked. It toilet and carefully attired,
so I still had a good view, despite of his long martyrdom.

For five consecutive days were great celebrations in Oviedo. Bernardo weddings Carpio and Elvira
took place while the Count of Saldaña and Dona Ximena.

A few days later found out that Don Raymond, the butler de Palacio, who had been Bernardo stole
the child and who ordered the killing, angry and scorned suitor was Dona Ximena. The killers,
responsible for killing the child, had taken pity on him and had exposed to the castle gate D.
Fruela.

For this and many other evils that discovered, it was understood that Mr. Raymond was an abomination,
so the king could usefully pursue justice by sending his hanging,
as he hung with general rejoicing of the citizens of Oviedo, for D.
Raymond was very hated and because at that so rude old philanthropy
was not anything major and revulsion instilled no death penalty.

It remains only to say that Bernard was very happy with Elvira and lived always in love she with
him and he with her.

In the old romances and history that are known to fight tooth and nail, which interrupted the
abbot at the monastery in the Pyrenees, was resumed later not far away, and ended gloriously
for Bernardo, drowning in his arms Herculean champion D. Roldán,
as there was another who had fought with him when the two were novices.

And

here ends the events of the youth of Bernardo del Carpio, ignored
until recently, and recently discovered in certain dilapidated and
unpublished Annals of the Order of Saint Benedict written in barbarous
Latin in the tenth century preserved in the monastery of La Cava,
near Naples.

Cordovans IN CRETE

HISTORICAL NOVEL GALLOP

SR. D. MIGUEL MOYA.

My distinguished friend, For The Liberal next Sunday you kindly asked me to write I do something
about things in the old age spent in the island of Crete. Great is my desire to please you,
but faces two difficulties. In a few words and bound, as disclosed by mythologists and historians,
what can I say that I have any news, other than a statement of what they said, and is not in any
dictionary rather encyclopedic? And if I go to my imagination and add to it something already known,
will not consistency or understand what I add, if known and not put on base, which can not fit into
one or two newspaper columns that you direct significant. Of here that neither of luck or
can I write another success for the order you want. This is not, however, what I grieve. What
grieves me most is that for many years, since before I had thought to write novels of manners
of the day, I had happened to write a historical novel about Crete, and had even forged the
plan, but confusing and vaguely. It would have been my novel a stunning fabric of extraordinary
adventures, with a real basis of that history testifies, but concise. My desire to write this novel
has not gone away ever. What has vanished is my hope. To write it as I figure it was necessary
to gather and form a vast apparatus of scholarship, and for this I always lacked patience. Today,
to my misfortune, besides patience, I miss the view. I can not see the multitude of tomes, ancient
and modern, written in different languages where I would take the
local and temporal color my projected work required.

       The work thus must remain in the project.

And since it is planned to free myself from his obsession and to prove to you that if I can,
I want to please, I'll put the project here very brief summary.

* * * * *

In the reign of Alhakem I, for the years 218 of the Hegira, was a wealthy merchant in Cordoba
called Abu Hafáz the Goleith, a native of nearby site of Fohs Albolut.

In his bazaar, located one of the main streets, were gathered the most beautiful objects industry
human, and what occurred in the Iberian Peninsula as it brought from remote regions; Baghdad,
Damascus, Bocara of Samarkand, Persia, India and hardly known vast empire of Cathay. Abu Hafáz ships
had their own, they went to the Levant ports to source of goods.

On a spring afternoon came in the bazaar of Abu Hafáz a lady covered, accompanied by her servant.
Although he did not see his face, he admired the grace and elegance
of her walk, leanness and elegance of her figure, a certain ineffable
prestige seductive and luminous halo surrounds it, and the aristocratic
beauty of its white, beautiful and well manicured hands.

The lady wanted to see how much more rich in the bazaar had. Abu Hafáz, full of satisfaction,
was offering before his eyes, and putting on the counter, a thousand
strange and workmanship in jewelry fabrics.

She is not satisfied with looking. He was very curious. The merchant said:

- Yet I have shown, Sultana, most splendid pilgrim my store treasures.

- And why hide it and do not you show me? - She said.

- Because I am interested and do not want to work for nothing. Show me your face and I pay you show
my best wealth.

The lady did not require much urging.

She pulled her shawl, and revealed the most beautiful and graceful countenance that the merchant
was able to see or dream in his life.

Grateful and excited, brought Pearl then Hormuz Golconda diamonds and silk fabrics and embroideries
come from Cathay with such dedication and expertise, did not seem
to work in humans but of fairies and genies.

The best and most wonderful of those embroidered fabrics lady was captivated unknown, wanted to
buy, and asked the price.

- It's so expensive - the merchant said - who may not want or can not afford it, but if you
have good will leave you very cheap fabric.

- Finish. Say what will my canvas.

- Well, kiss your mouth - the merchant said.

Angry lady of that disrespectful boldness, she covered her face, she turned to Abu Hafáz and left
the bazaar followed by his servant.

Follow the merchant wanted to find out where and who was lived, but the lady was gone in the
maze of narrow streets.

Then paint the novel's furious Hafáz Abu infatuation and desperation
for five or six days, despite a thousand cares and mysterious issues
that concern and occupied.

After the bazaar, the servant comes and tells him that his wife can not sleep or calm down,
thinking provided on the web and longing to possess, which yields, therefore, that the next
day, the evening, come to the bazaar with great modesty and give
the fabric the price asked.

The lady goes into effect the appointment. The merchant then finds out she is in the harem Sultan's
wealth has come by stealth, while the Sultan was hunting in the mountains
boars.

She called Glafiro. Is from a small village in the foothills of Mount Ida. Although his family was
poor, high and boasted ancient nobility. His descendants went back
to the mythical age.

Counted among its ancestors and dactyls Curetes Ida, of which weaving war dances to the sound
of trumpets and the sound of their shields injured by the knob of
swords, surrounded Zeus, as a child, and prevented Cronos heard him
and devour him.

In his wild retreat, the family had resisted Glafiro Christian be kept live and fresh, by tradition,
memories of paganism. He even boasted of possessing virtues supernatural
magical items acquired by venerable and early initiation into mysteries.
Glafiro stated that one parent had been Epimenides, wise legislator,
poet and prophet, skilled in the art to terminate life, remaining
dormant in deep caverns, to learn from experience bias and leading
to tortuous course through the centuries human events.

Glafiro had
lost the secret of magic, but he had many skills. Singing or reciting
verse thousand ancient legends of the divine age of heroes and demigods,
of Europe's coming to their island, the love of Pasiphae fury and
triumph and treachery Theseus. And even dancing, as she claimed, the
same ingenious Daedalus composed dance for the princess Ariadne of
gold braid.

Accused of sorcery and gentle, and intolerant fleeing
religious persecution, Fr of Glafiro left Crete with his daughter.
He wandered for several countries and finally died leaving abandoned.
Wandering as Io Hesperia Glafiro reached without the monitored Argos,
but also without gadfly or estrus than pulverized. Estrus was not
more ambitious than his will.

Alhakem, charmed and captivated by
her talent and her beauty, had stayed in his palace. She dreamed of
being the favorite and the queen in the empire of the Omnia.

The
irresistible whim of the fabric and have a longing almost unconscious,
he had infused the young merchant, drew Glafiro and drove to the price
asked.

Flame burning and more dominating the kiss lit in the heart
of Abu Hafáz instead of quieting them. He was daring and able to risk
and venture all, confident in the strength of its encouragement and
impetus to pave judging with mountains of difficulties. Decided, therefore,
keep Glafiro in his home as collateral, without releasing the slave
not to discover the kidnapping