 

When he reached the critical moment showed bravery bordering on heroism. Luis wanted to rely a doctor,
she refused. Why? With the assistance of Jacqueline was enough. The trust that secret to another
person was dangerous. We undertook the first symptoms at dawn, being in bed, but not until eight summoned
Jacoba, who under the pretext of making some mattresses slept for several days at home. Is
locked in the cabinet, where they already had prepared the necessary clothes and without a cry,
without a movement out of touch, without the mild complaint, that brave woman left her care.
Jacqueline took the baby with the mess clothing, after having sent out with appropriate excuses
servants.

The Count cried with joy and admiration to know this happy outcome. Then, when received by Jacoba
ordered to take the girl to the portal Quiñones, I felt heartbroken. The plan her lover filled
him with astonishment, but as he was accustomed to obey, did what
command.

The result topped the audacity of the lady was as she had expected.

And now, looking at the baby safe forever, not only strengthened their
love and refined, but felt the joy of victory, which after strong
run time finally arrives at the port of salvation.

Very quietly, hands clasped, occasionally tilting his head to brush the front lip of the girl,
spoke at length, rather, dreamed awake, wanting to penetrate the unfathomable depths of time.
What would be the fate of that beautiful creature? How it educate? Amalia said as his daughter
get to educate, make a real young lady was sure that D. Pedro would not oppose it. And like he
had no children, who, having nothing more natural taken a liking to leave her to her death a significant
legacy. The Count made a gesture of disdain.

The girl did not need finances D. Pedro. He would leave all their own.

- But you can marry and have children - said the lady looked at him mischievously.

He covered his mouth.

- Hush, hush!

You know I do not want to hear it even.

I'm definitely attached to you.

She kissed him warmly.

- Sealed, right?

- Sealed - he said firmly.

- But do not you take care of that if you leave your property at will,
then born the suspicion that it was your daughter?

This difficulty for a moment struck him.

Both were engaged in some way to arbitrate circumvented. The count
wanted to leave in trust to someone you trust.

But this also offered its drawbacks. Best would be putting money in your name at a bank, and
upon reaching the age of majority, pretending an inheritance, to
invent a parent out of the blue ...

- Finally, we'll talk about that
... Let my care - she concluded.

And he kept it very willingly, trusting of his inexhaustible imagination,
their willingness and audacity.

When they tired of talking about what future they turned their eyes to this. It was necessary to
baptize girls. Had decided that was the next day.

- We have agreed that the godmother and godfather I were you.

- How?

I? - Said scared .-- But, my dear, do not you understand that it
can breed suspicion?

The lady persisted. Yes, that was to be godfather. If suspected,
bon appetit. She did not care. But actually seeing him change his
mind distressed.

- Do not worry, man, do not worry - said giving
a tug to his beard .-- It was a joke. Good going to face when you
had to put on the stack! Do not be missing more than shouting Gentlemen,
here! Come here for all to see the father of this child!

The sponsor
would Quiñones, and its representation D. Enrique Valero. Her godmother,
represented by Maria Josefa. The count was very pleased. All that
was skillful and prudent and appropriate to ensure the fate of his
daughter. But after that happier, a rumor that came the hallway made
him jump in the chair, get livid.

- What are you, man?

- That noise!
??...

- It Jacoba ...

But seeing him doubtful, even frightened eyes,
stood up, taking the child in her arms, opened the door and exchanged
a few words to James that, indeed, was there