 Ah-Fe rang
the bell, a servant appeared, glanced at the basket and reluctantly admitted like a pet, annoying but
necessary. Ah-Fe rose silently the stairs, he went into the front room, left the basket and
waited in the doorway.

A woman sitting at the cool window light grayish, with a girl in the skirt, rose with indifference
and went to the visitor. Immediately recognized Ah, Mrs. Faith Galba, but did not change even
one muscle in his face, nor his oblique eyes encouraged the found peacefully with his former mistress.
Obviously, she did not recognize him because he started to count the pieces of clothing she
wore.

But the girl, examining it with curiosity, uttered suddenly a sudden
cry of joy:

- But Mom, if John!

Do not you know? Is the Chinese we had in Fiddletown.

Hurtful eyes Ah-Fe shone for a moment with electric shock.

The girl slapped and grabbed his clothing. The Chinese said:

- Yo, John, Ah-Fe, all is one. I know you. How's it going?

Galba Mrs. dropped in horror Miron clothing and steadily.

As there was for him the affection that stoked the perception of Carolina, could not distinguish
even their peers. At one point recalled the last sentence, and dim suspicion of danger imminent,
asked when he had left his master's house.

- Oh, long time!

I do not like Fiddletown. Tlevelick dislike.

San Flisco like.

Like washing. Like Carolina.

Mrs. pleased Galba the brevity of Ah-Fe, so I did not stop to think about it influence he had
on his good intention and sincerity the imperfect knowledge of the
language Shakespeare.

But he said:

- I request not to tell anyone that I have seen.

And he took his alms.

The Chinese, without looking at him, saw that it was nearly empty,
without scanning the room, noted that it was poorly furnished, and
without removing his gaze from the ceiling, he noticed that the lady
and wore Carolina with the greatest poverty.

However, I must confess that the long fingers pressed to Ah-Fe half a dollar sign that it
handed him.

Then began to search the folds of her blouse through strange contortions
and grimaces.

After a few moments, he pulled from God knows where a child apron, which he placed on the basket,
saying

- Forgetting a laundry room.

And started again for registration.

Finally, success crowned their efforts apparently, took his right
ear a piece of tissue paper rolled patiently.

Carefully unrolled, finally discovered two gold coins of twenty dollars, which handed the lady
of Galba.

- Leave your money on bluló [14] Fiddletown, I find coins. I bring to you shortly.

- But I do not any money left over Boureau, John! - Said presented with sincere amazement. There
must be wrong. Will of another person. Take it, John.

Ah-Fe was troubled for a moment. He took his hand to Madame de Galba proffered money and moved
quickly to pick up their stuff.

- No, no, I did not return. No. Then take me a policeman [15]. I know: God damn thief take forty
dollars, to jail. I do not return. You leave money up bluló Fiddletown. I bring money. I do
not carry cash again.

Lady Clara doubted that in their headlong flight had left the money as he said, but either way
it was, had no right to endanger the safety of this Chinese honored by refusing, so he said:

-
Okay, John. I will stay with him, but you have to see me again.

Lady Clara hesitated. For the first time it happened that a man could wish to see another but her.

-
To me, y. .. Carolina!

The Ah-Fe face brightened. Even uttered a short laugh ventriloquist without moving a only facial
muscle.

Then, throwing the basket on his shoulder, carefully closed the door and slipped quietly up
the stairs. However, the output, a difficulty encountered unexpectedly when you open the door,
and after struggling a moment in the door in vain, looked around as if waiting for who would
take out of trouble. But the Irish barmaid had facilitated the entry, did not deign to appear. He
then spent a mysterious incident and sensitive, I will relate just effortlessly to give an
explanation. On the table the entrance was a silk handkerchief, property without doubt the
maid to whom I referred. While Ah-Fe tempted the bolt with one hand lightly resting his free on the
table. Suddenly, and seemingly spontaneous impulse, the tissue began to slide gradually toward
the hand of Chinese. From the hand of Ah-Fe, went inside his sleeve, slowly and with a slow
movement, like the serpent, and disappeared in some of the folds of his robe. Without showing the
slightest interest in this phenomenon, Ah-Fe yet their repeated attempts over the bolt. Soon after,
the red damask rug, moved perhaps by the same mysterious impulse, slowly gathered it under the
fingers of Ah-Fe and gently undulating disappeared by the same hidden
path.

What other mysteries could have followed? This would not be easy to find, because at that moment
Ah Fe discovered the secret bolt and could open the door, coinciding with the sound of footsteps
could be heard in ladder. The Chinese do not hastened his departure, but slowly loading the
basket closed the door carefully behind him, and into the thick impenetrable fog that hung down
the street.

Reclined in the window, saw the figure of Lady Clara Ah-Fe until he disappeared into the thick fog.
In his plight he felt deep gratitude, and perhaps Lady Clara as always, poetic and sensitive,
attributed to deep emotions and conscience satisfied a good deed, cupping the breast of the Chinese
that it was actually due to the presence the scarf and the mat under your clothing. Then, and
as the night, gray fog became more dense, Galba Mrs. Caroline shook against his chest. Leaving
the talk of the creature, ensued between emotional memories and selfish considerations at once bitter
and dangerous. The sudden appearance of Ah-Fe had re-united with Fiddletown his past life,
the path traveled since those days was useless and sad strewn with thorns, full of thorns and
difficulties and insurmountable obstacles. Nothing strange was therefore Carolina finally ceased
suddenly in the middle of their childish confidences to throw his
arms around the neck of the poor woman, and begged him not to cry
because it was sad.

Heaven preserve me to use a pen, you should always engage early exposure unalterable moral, in
transcribing the specious theories about this time Lady Clara and defended his conduct that sophistical
apologies, illogical deductions, tender apology and weak palliative. In truth, the circumstances
were very cruel, quickly depleted their low flow. Sacramento had the opportunity to experience
the verses, although rising the most sublime emotions of the human heart, and deserve further consideration
of an editor in the pages of a newspaper, are insufficient resources
for the expenses of a family, although does not give more than a lady
and a young girl.

Then turned to the theater but failed completely. Maybe your concept of the passions was different
from that professed Auditorium Sacramento, but the truth is that your beautiful presence,
both charming and effect at close range, it was not for the light of the limelight quite pronounced.
Fans in his cabinet, did not lack, but did not arouse lasting affection in public. Then he
remembered I had contralto voice of no great extent and little cultivated, but very sweet
melodious. Finally achieved a place in a chapel choir, holding it for three months very much
in its pecuniary advantage, and it was said, to the satisfaction of the knights of the past
banks turned their faces towards her during the singing of the last prayer.

Well I have it engraved in memory. A ray of sunlight coming down from the window San Dives choir,
he would gently caressing the thick mass of brown hair beautiful black head and arches his
eyebrows, and dark shadow of the silken lashes his eyes of jet. It was a pleasure to observe
the opening and closing of that finely shaped mouth, quickly showing a string of pearls on her
white little teeth, and blushed to see blood satin cheek: for the lady of Galba was useless admiration
sensitive causing and like most beautiful women, are gathered under the eyes the same as a race horse
under the spur of the rider.

Not long before the troubles to come. I reported all a soprano (more fixie that careless in
matters of sex). Anunciome that the conduct of Mrs. Galba was almost embarrassing, that his
vanity was unbearable, that if considered the rest of the choir as slaves, she, the soprano,
I wanted you to say clearly, that his behavior with low on Easter Sunday had attracted the attention
of all the faithful, and that she had seen the Rev. Cope looked at twice in the office, that
their friends (the soprano), had objected to sing in the choir with a woman had trod the boards,
but this, so it could still happen. But he knew on good authority that Mrs. Galba had escaped
from her husband and the girl's hair sometimes wore red to the choir, not his. The tenor confided
one day behind the organ, the contralto had a means to sustain the final note of each phrase, so
that his voice was longer in the ear of the audience, an act worthy only could be attributed
to a vicious and immoral character, that the tenor of a well-known dependent hardware on weekdays,
and singing on Sunday, was not willing to endure longer. And only under a German small, heavy
voice that was embarrassing, defended the contralto and dared to
say that were jealous of her, by having a good palm heart.

The storm finally festered and these differences were resolved in a lawsuit shameless Lady Clara in
which he used his tongue with such precision arguments and epithets that the soprano burst
into hysterics, and her husband had to remove the wording in the arms of the chorus: all of which
came to the attention of the parishioners by the removal customary single soprano. Lady Clara came
home flushed with triumph, but to get to her room was not conducive
to the blandishments of Carolina, saying that since then they were
beggars, she, her mother, just take your last bite of bread and ended
up breaking into inconsolable weeping.

Tears came to her eyes not so easily as in the past and poetic days,
but when he poured his heart was lacerated.

Again itself to the announcement of the visit of a vestryman, the music committee. Then wiped his
long tab, Atos neck a new tape and went down the hall. He remained there for two hours, that could
lead to talk of not being the good man married with children of any age. Lady Clara returning
to her room, humming and looking in the mirror Carolina scolded. At that had once saved his placement
in the choir of the chapel.

However, it was not much space. Over time, enemy forces received powerful aid in the person of the
wife of the Committee-man.

This lady visited several of parishioners and family of Dr. Cope,
which resulted in a subsequent meeting Music committee decided that
the contralto voice was not suited to the capacity of building and
was invited to present his resignation, which was soon done.

Eight weeks ago I was out of placement and its limited resources
were almost exhausted, when Ah-Fe shed in their hands the unexpected
benefit.

     
     
     III
     

The leaden fog became more intense through the night, shaking and the headlights came to life,
while Madame de Galba, lost in painful memories, was still leaning out his window sadly. Did
not even realize that Carolina had slipped from the room, and its bustling back, taking in hand
the evening paper, still wet.

With the presence the girl became Lady Clara itself and present troubles. In their plight used
the poor woman sifting ads, with the fleeting hope of finding including
proposals for a job (did not know which), which could provide for
their needs, and Carolina had noticed this.

Galba Mrs. mechanically closed the shutters, lit the lights and unfolded the newspaper.

Instinctively, his eye fell on the next paragraph of the telegraph:

Fiddletown,
7 .-- Don Juan Galba, a person "well known in this Instead, died last
night of delirium tremens.

Don Juan was delivered to disordered behavior, caused, it is said,
by disappointment within the family.

"

Lady Clara did not flinch.

Quietly turned the page and glanced at Carolina, which was absorbed in reading a book with pictures.
Lady Clara did not say a word, and for the rest of the night remained
absorbed, contrary to custom, and extremely quiet and thoughtful.

Finally, and at dawn, going where he slept Carolina suddenly fell
on his knees bedside, and taking in their hands the tender head girl
asked:

- Tell me.

Would you like to have another father?

- No - said after thinking for a moment questioned.

     - I mean a father to help her mom and take care of you with love, give
     you beautiful dresses and, finally, when you were older you hiciese
lady.

     
     Carolina turned to her sleepy eyes.
     

- What about you, you would like, mum?

     
     Lady Clara blushed to the ears.
     
     - Sleep - he snapped.
     
     And returned.
     

But after a little while, the girl felt two soft arms that clasped against her breast throbbing
and touched by the heartrending sobs.

- Do not cry, Mom - Caroline
murmured, dreamily recalling the last conversation .-- No I want to
cry.

I think I want a new daddy if you like very much ... a lot ... and me would like very much to
me.

A month later, he married Mrs. Galba, to general surprise. The lucky groom was a certain Robert,
colonel recently elected to represent Calaveras County in Legislative Council. Unable to report
the event in more precise language chosen the Globe Correspondent Sacramento, I will quote some
of his most funny:

"The ruthless rogue Cupid arrows rages these days our gallant rooms: there is a new victim.

"It is the honorable A. Roberto de Calaveras, now a captive beautiful fairy, widow, a priestess
of Thespis time, and even Recently, rival of Santa Cecilia, one of the churches to Fashion
San Francisco, where she enjoyed a regular income. "

The Dutch Flat newscast said the incident with little apprehension feature:

"The new leader of the Democrats of Calaveras, just arrived the legislature with a brand new
project.

This is the Galba name conversion in Ponce, name of Colonel Roberto. We believe they call it a faith
of marriage. Has not one month after the death of Mr. Galba, but is assume that the intrepid
colonel is not afraid of elves bedroom. "

However, saying that the colonel's victory was easily obtained, it would not do justice Lady
Clara.

A shyness own female, added the obstacle of a rival, wealthy businessman Undertakers of Sacramento,
who had captivated Madame de Galba, theater or church, as the professional
habits of ordinary trouser excluded as treatment social and any other
that was not religious or ceremonial.

As this gentleman had a nice fortune favors acquired during a long and terrible epidemic, the
colonel it was somewhat scary for opponents. But fortunately, the undertaker had to practice in
the person of a senator, a colleague of the Colonel, who's gun he killed himself in an affair
of honor, and whether they feared the rivalry by physical considerations, or be calculated
with caution that the colonel could procure clients, it was that withdrew, leaving the field expedient.

The
honeymoon was short, and ended with an unexpected incident. During the honeymoon, entrusted
to a sister of Colonel Robert the care of the child.

Upon returning to the city Mrs. Ponce determined immediately visit
the keeper, to bring up the girl home again.

But her husband for some time showed signs of concern that he struggled
to overcome through repeated use of strong drinks.

Finally he decided, closely abrochose Levite, and after walking the room once or twice unsteadily,
stopped suddenly to his wife with an air of authority.

- Until the
last moment - said the colonel, with stammering lips and majesty affected
increased your inner fear - I have deferred, ie, I have suspended
the revelation of a fact that I comunicándotelo my duty.

All in order not to cloud the sun of our mutual happiness ... Non wither our tender promises
to flower, or darken the sky marital with an explanation unpleasant,
but I must ... God lives!

... Lady ... I do today. The child is not already here!

- What! - Ms. Ponce said in surprise.

Something in the tone of his voice, squinting in the sudden of his pupils, who at one time
alcohol vapors dissipated in the head of colonel and shrugged his
graceful figure.

I'll explain in a nutshell - he said, shaking his hand in conciliatory gesture - I'll explain.
Him .. the ... the ... melancholy event that precipitated our happiness, the mysterious providence
freed you, also freed the girl.

Do you understand? Freed the girl.

At the time of Galba died, the relationship that he joined you disappeared too. The thing is
as clear as the light. Who is the girl? What Galba? This girl is dead and can not belong to the
dead. It is a solemn nonsense to claim that belongs to the dead.

Is it his daughter? No? Who, then? The girl belongs to her mother. Is not it?

- Where is it? - Said Mrs. Ponce concentrated voice, pale face.

- All I'll explain. The girl belongs to her mother. That no doubt. I am a lawyer, legislator and
citizen of the Union. My duty as a lawyer, legislator and a citizen of the Union is to restore the
girl to her grieving mother ... cost what it may.

- But where is he? - Repeated Madame de Ponce, yet still view the face of colonel.
- Well on his way to join his mother, left yesterday on the steamer,
bound for the East and carried by winds favorable to those who, no
doubt waiting with open arms.

Mrs. Ponce remained motionless. The
colonel felt his chest slowly shrank, but apoyose against a chair,
and tried to hold a chivalric gallantry coupled the severity of the
judicial robes.

- Madam, on way to honor their sex, but we must also
consider the feelings, the situation of a mother, and at the same
time, my situation.

The colonel made a pause here and taking out
a white handkerchief carelessly passed it on his chest and then smiled
cynically through their embroidered folds.

Then he added:

- Why
has a slight shadow to cloud the harmony of two souls that moves a
single thought? Certainly, she is beautiful is good, but, after all,
is the daughter of another! Was the girl, Clara, but not everything
went with it. Clara, consider, my dear, I always have to me by your
side!

Clara rose to power.

- You! - Shouted chest with a note that
vibrated the windows .-- You, whom I married to my darling girl will
not starve! You, I called the dog to my side away from me men! You!
...

Could not continue. Rushed into the next room, who was Carolina,
then moved quickly your own bedroom, and suddenly appeared before
him, erect, menacing, with a burning fire in the cheekbones, furrowed
brows and contracted his throat. It seemed that his head Colonel flatten
and depressed her mouth like a snake.

- Roberto! - Said in a hoarse
voice and energetic .-- Hey, Colonel! If you ever want to set your
view in me, bring me before the girl. If you ever want to talk or
approach, you must give it back. Where she is, will I be, do you hear?
Wherever she has gone, I find myself!

And again he walked past angry,
throwing out his arms from the elbows down as well to rid themselves
of imaginary bonds, and, entering her room, shut the door and the
key turned to violence