 The fury of Mutileder was indescribable, but led to nothing. Did not even know about Fixed
the unhappy lover who was the kidnapper, though he suspected of marine Malaga had put in Echeloría
the lascivious and greedy eyes.

These abductions of women were extremely frequent in those heroic ages, and had already given
and should continue giving the opportunity to not a few riots and wars. The Phoenicians had
stolen from Io, Inachus daughter, the Greeks had stolen from Europe of Phoenicia, a Coico Medea
and Ariadne of Crete, and finally, a Phrygian prince stole the beautiful
Helen, wife of King Sparta, Menelaus, thus motivating a long and deadly
struggle, and after the destruction of Troy.

Don Juan Fresco explains, in my view, a satisfactory way these abductions of women. Supposed
that women, as well as its beauty is so delicate, it grows naturally. All that is raised is
the female of man. The real woman is artificial product, which is of great care and exquisite
care and cultivation convoluted.

Hence the rarity then the real woman and the magical and wondrous effect produced in the soul
of warriors barbarians, and spirited, accustomed to seeing females only.

When men recover from their astonishment turned to make the condition worse woman the humblest
slave, but sometimes a woman washed well, neat and composed, infused fervent love, enthusiasm
and some frenzied worship as if it were something divine. Hence the lies and myths of fairies and
charming as Circe and Calypso, which became the men into beasts, the gynaecocracy, that is,
the rule of women, established in many parties, as in the country of the Amazons and Arabia Felix,
and the unbridled influence, sometimes fatal, useful now, who exercised some ladies in the most
raw and brave men, as Omphale in Hercules, Samson, Delilah, Betzabé David, Egeria to Numa, and Judith
to Holofernes.

Hence, Finally, they earned much credit sibyls, the mediums and druidisas; above, no doubt
because they looked more of their people, and managed to polish and discover the hidden beauty
usually invisible in the female due to lack of polish and toilet.

In addition, understanding the beauty and the desire to achieve women were beautiful. Today much
of this quality, tamed and rebellious nature, often transmitted by inheritance; but in the
heroic times, the beauty was as inspired creation that women artists performed in his own
body, by dint of strive. Yet, five centuries after the time in which case our story, amazed
the study, neatness and careful preparations that women are worth to be presented in a dignified
manner. To please the king Asner, who was looking queen, Vashti divorced after, the girls spent
an entire year rubbed with liniments and ointments, Sauma, washing, refined and grooming. In
the day, with enough preparation time for submission to the most refined gourmet the crudest of the
peasant: irrefutable proof that what art and education acquired by
transmitted from mother to daughter.

Truth is, however, is less ductile nature now and the Hottentot,
although scrub and mud more than they would be submitted to Xerxes,
Hottentot remains, whence, without doubt, saying: "Although the mona
monkey dressed in silk remains."

Let us, however, Sayings and digressions aside, and continue our story.

Echeloría, by nature and art, by inheritance and by conquest, was a beauty. And Mutileder, rightly
adored, not cried, Her feminine bitterness, but, shaking his club and crunching the sling with
loud clicks, vowed to find his beloved, fought raptor, and avenge this defeat of a good stone
or a stick moliéndole.

Mutileder tells the story, the moment to make that oath, it was so beautiful could not be more.
Her blue eyes, usually sweet, light twinkled, his sharp, straight nose, swollen with anger, showed
very enlarged the windows, the eyebrows, pursed in the center, gave more glory to her forehead,
her mouth was left ajar see white teeth, equal and strong, healthy and fresh and bright color of lipstick
on gums and language.

Her head thrown back with arrogance and bareheaded, wore heavy, blond hair, floating in graceful
curls to the breeze, her legs and arms bare, collapsed then the muscles for energy attitude, gave
Hercules envious of youth. All in Mutileder was beauty, elegance, verve and donosura. His
voice, distorted by passion, entered in hearts, but his words were understood.

At that moment, oh Force of Destiny! there happened to pass by the graceful and distinguished Chem,
in Phoenician means beauty, more flirtatious and whimsical widow
was in Malaga.

Her husband had left many young and fortune. She remained with the house her husband's trade,
under the right of the widow unsocial Chem. In that time again to amuse himself a fifth had
in Churriana.

Six swarthy Ethiopian took her in a sedan chair, and two squires, one owner and four small page
Egyptians also went with more authority and decorum.

Chemer Mutileder heard, looked at him and wondered, looked back at him and was more amazed. Then
he said to himself: "Divine heaven, what do I look?

Will it be god or mortal?

"Ashtoreth Resplandecería more Adonis when he fell in love with?"

But questions continued her soliloquy, Chema continued its path, without questioning the young
man, who seemed furious, and not daring even to stop and get off the chair hand, in the midst
of strangers, whose language they did not understand, because they spoke the Iberian, which
as already stated, was what is now called Basque. If I had known Chemes Mutileder commonly
spoke Phoenician, as indeed he spoke, no doubt had stopped; but, not knowing or suspecting, Chema
passed by.

IV.

After Mutileder cast frogs and snakes through the mouth and is vented his best, came to give to the presumed
father the bad news of the abduction, and comfort, if comfort in size could be pain.

To avoid prolixity are not put here the lamentations that made both
as a duo.

What important to know is that Mutileder and his father, after mature consideration, recognized
the useless to complain of rape to the authorities of Malaga, which would make them no case, or
if if they did, nothing could be against a sailor so spoiled in Tyre,
as Adherbal was.

A I urge anyone that the judges sufetes or send against Adherbal Malaga, it was evident Tyre
sufetes that were to lay aside, turning a blind eye. There was more action to resign and hold
it, or take revenge and satisfaction by the hand. This latter was therefore decided Mutileder
with manly energy.

He said goodbye to her alleged father, and without thinking or pecuniary resources were worth nothing
that, went to Manchester to take languages, to ensure that he was
Adherbal the raptor, as I suspected, and seek to go to Tyre as in
the first ship to kick him out, to boot Echeloría of captivity or
a kidnapping in which he was and do a copy and just Adherbal punishment.

Through

it all, Mutileder was some consolation. I thought they had sworn to be of Echeloría faithful
or die, and was assured that would rather die than break his promise.

He himself had made the same oath, and felt strongly enough to fulfill it.

With these ideas in mind and with the purpose bizarre going to kick as soon as possible, ran
Mutileder the streets of Manchester until he began to get dark. All the news that acquired it was
confirmed that the kidnapper Echeloría Adherbal. In what was not far ahead in an agreement with
a pattern of vessel to come out soon and bring him to Phoenicia.

Night came, as has been pointed out, and now Mutileder retired to
his inn, he felt gently pulling it behind the layer.

He turned his face, and saw a little page Egyptian who said:

- Mr Mutileder, follow me, your worship, that no person who wishes to speak on matters that interest
you.

- Who can be that person? he replied. I, Malaga, do not know anyone.

Then said the little page:

- Although your worship does not know this person, this person knows
you.

Today, tomorrow, passed by the place of abduction obstinate, and heard and saw your grace when
he lamented. The person is compassionate, excellent, and was sorry.

Has taken reports on everything that happened, and has made his feelings
more.

Want to remedy the evil of your worship, with whom confer cares away.

Want to follow your worship?

Mutileder found no reasonable cause to say no, and followed the little page.

Followed by streets and alleys, which crossed quickly, it was our hero protobermejino false and
a little door closed at the end of a dead end.

The page applied a key to the lock, gave him two laps, and the door opened noiselessly. Entered
the page, and followed him Mutileder.

Page closed the door again, and he and our friend stayed in complete
darkness.

The page grabbed Mutileder the hand and led him through the darkness.

After a short time saw light and a flashlight on the floor.

He took the page, and already she gave birth to Mutileder, and showing the way, told him to
follow. Both rose by a long narrow staircase Spiral: then came another little door, opened the page,
which had lifted a carpet behind, and he and Mutileder entered a spacious and well lit room.

The page then slipped away without knowing how, and Mutileder met face to face with a ancient
and venerable lady, who, mellifluous voice, he said:

- Follow me, beautiful.

And Mutileder followed, somewhat flushed the untimely compliment.

Referring here not because I'm in a hurry, and I should not or I can
stand in the drawings, the workmanship great, rare jewelry, the beautiful
objects of art and comfortable chairs and sofas who had at various
venues through which they passed the owner and our hero, who atortolado
the followed.

Suffice to know that there you could put together of what had been invented the lap of luxury then
and as the active application of the Phoenician sailors he could bring all the counties that used
them to contribute, from the mouths of the Indus to the mouths of Rhine endpoints of their journeys
or voyages.

What I will say is that if a room was luxurious, it was another, and that the delicacy was
on the rise rooms as they passed. Wonderful peaceful silence and tranquility reigned throughout.
There was not a soul. Sweet solitude and mystery. Rich, mild fragrance of perfume permeated
Sabians the warm environment.

"- What is this? Mutileder said to himself. Where do I take this good woman? "

And the admiration and doubt were painted in his candid and beautiful face.

Finally, the owner knocked on a door, which was not open like the
others who had given passage from one room to another room, but it
was locked.

The owner opened a bit, enough for a person cupiese for her, pushed Mutileder, led him into,
and staying outside closed the door again, leaving him alone.

Mutileder, coming from rooms where too much light, he saw nothing
at first, and imagined that the room that had just entered was dark,
but his eyes widened soon and noticed a sweet evening light illuminating
this room, spreading from within three lamps of alabaster.

Had not yet had leisure to see everything that surrounded him when
he heard a voice Mutileder soft and Argentina, who looked out of a
new human throat and a fresh face, red and healthy, because all this
is known in the voice, which he said:

- Forgive me, friend, that
made you come here, wanting to talk.

Mutileder directed his eyes to the point where the voice came, and
saw lying languidly on a wide sofa and a dark lady majestic as an
empress, dressed in white and floating garment, with a full head of
hair, shiny and black as sloe, and with eyes that like two suns in
mourning, and by fire and lightning gave off, as its dark color and
the color, no less dark, eyebrows, long, curly eyelashes, and even
smooth the eyelids, which heightened the glow fulmineo shadows of
those eyes.

In the arms bare, almost close to the shoulder, had the lady neat gold bracelets and costly task,
on the chest and ears, necklace and earrings with emeralds, and paths bangles, like that of
the bracelets in the throats of their small feet, Shoes for buskins red silk. Identical silk ties
adorned the bodice and skirt and tightened the airy waist. On the blackest hair looked, lit
with grace, a bouquet of flowers of pomegranate.

In all this together Mutileder repaired, but without analysis, like us, because it was something
short and not knowing what was happening. The thing with good reason, above all, being a lad that,
while clear and bold, lacked experience and had never seen in sets of that genre.

Absorbed, silent, mouth open, was Mutileder, when the lady got up
and showed the his gallant foot tall, slender and supple as the palms
of Tadmor, and came to him and took him hand, which he felt like an
electric shock, led to another and said:

- Sit down.

What scares you?

And Mutileder sat beside the lady, quietly on a stool.

After it had calmed Mutileder he heard the lady with due attention,
and answered in concert.

She said her name was Chem, who was a widow and rich natural and Tyre,
who had known his pain, he was interested in him because of a sudden,
irresistible sympathy, and he longed give solace and remedy for their
ills.

Although Chemes had found out everything he wanted me to refer you Mutileder history. Mutileder
the spoke eloquently. Speaking of Echeloría, although it was hard man, he jumped tears. With tears
on her cheeks and her blue eyes watching, the boy the nicest thing you can imagine. Chemer not
get enough of looking at him, but with what looks!

Come on, you can not explain how they were.

Chemer had about thirty-five years.

Mutileder had not known her mother. Do not know what was the friendship and the love of women.

-
Poor me! exclaimed Chem. Adherbal Rogue! Do not pay evil with the life you have done. You are
right to want revenge and save Echeloría from the clutches of that monster. Mira, Mutileder:
within four days should I go to Tyre, where I have to get my affairs, very messy since my husband
died. You will come in my company. Consider me as your most loyal friend.

And Chemes simply took the hand of innocent boy, and clasped in hers and held her captive, balancing
the heat higher than it had in the heat he had in his hand.

Was still more interesting and beautiful when he spoke warmly Mutileder
of eternal love and fidelity and Echeloría he had sworn.

Chemer celebrated all this, and it was much to his liking.

- Yes, my son told Mutileder, it should be.

Echeloría happy that you found in a model lovers. There are usually other men like you, but
fickle and perjured. All my wealth, I'd give my position if I had found a lover so determined
and thin like you.

In short, this conversation took a long time, and I have notes and has provided me D. Juan Fresco
and I would very easily refer you to every detail, but, as my story has to go on a calendar
without exciting anyone to make them, and can not be extended much,
but be as a brief overview, I will most essential, slipping some Sometimes,
as he quickly slips in those passages that lend themselves to it so
slippery.

V.

Four days after the conference and first among Chemes Mutileder, leaving
both of Malaga to kick in a magnificent ship.

Mutileder was as private secretary to the queen to bring the Iberian language correspondence.

The
friendship between the two was close, and Mutileder, always to be seen in the presence of Chem,
was as happy and proud to have such elegant and discreet friend. Chemer was also much joke and
most fortunate occurrences: a thousand funny saying nonsense, and rejoiced Mutileder and could not
help laughing, but when I was alone, bitter melancholy took possession of his soul, cruel thoughts
tormented him, and something like remorse clawed the heart, like the claws of a cat, or let
us say, a tiger.

Mutileder spoke between his teeth, threw disconsolate sighs, and even
beat pawed and pinch without compassion, and often say:

"What mischief!

What mischief! "

In the presence of Chema or forgot her pain or restrained him and hid. This, no doubt, was the
mischief, alluding to his exclamation.

Mutileder had already had time to meditate, reflect and severe examination,
and are not absolved, but condemned as weak, faithless and disloyal,
in the superlative.

Sometimes I wanted to apologize to himself, and could not.

'I said, still love Echeloría, and Chem does not prevent it.

I'll get Echeloría, to freedom and to avenge, and Chem help me in my business. The affection
has something Chema of maternal. It's so good to me! - It's so cheerful
and funny!

What nonsense I salty it happen! How do I have to laugh to hear them? Do I have to be always crying?
No: it is not necessary mourn: there is no need to refuse to be comforted, like a wild beast,
to prove it a faithful and consistent. We'll see when I meet if I love Echeloría Adherbal or
I do not love. "

These and other subtleties and quintessence convoluted, brewing and represented Mutileder to
justify, but, as we said, could not ever.

Hence his sentence when
he was alone, and do not know where, forgetting his pain when Chema
was accompanied. Inexplicable contradictions, antinomies rare hearts
of deadly!

Thus, in soliloquies romantic, poignant and worthy of
Hamlet, which was not always Chemer; and entertaining talks, in talks
tender, and games and laughter, when Chemes appeared, Mutileder lived,
and so spent the time, walked the ship stopped at several places in
Africa and some islands of Greece, and finally came to Tyre, then
capital of Phoenicia from the destruction of Sidon, where the Philistines,
blond descendants of Japheth, came from Crete by sea, while the side
of the Arabian desert the Israelites entered the land Canaan and carried
everything with blood and fire. Tyre had been reborn after the power
Canaanite or Phoenician and was in all its glory and flourished. On
the throne of Tyre shone the King Hiram, the friend of Solomon, son
of David. Israelites and Phoenicians were close allies and happy.
Very long would describe here the greatness of Tyre. Let's leave
it for another day. What matters ie Adherbal Mutileder immediately
sought and found him not. Soon learned with rage the tireless ocean
without rest almost, was in command of the fleet, Hiram and Solomon
were issuing frequently to India, from the port of Aziongaber in the
Red Sea. Three days before the arrival of Mutileder and Chem, Adherbal
was launched to take command referred.

Adherbal must go through Jerusalem.
Mutileder thought only to pursue and achieve, before they embarked
for such a long voyage, which God knows when we return.

Fearing that
he lacks the strength and courage to say goodbye Chem prepared Mutileder
his journey with the utmost caution, taking the output of a caravan,
and mounted on a lightweight camel, came to Jerusalem, when Chemes
least suspected.

Chemer knew it and wept while reading a letter he
wrote before leaving and that he gave Chemer a person of confidence.
The letter read as follows:

"My dear Chem: I am the weakest and the
most wicked of men. I should run away from you since the first time
and not give you a heart that never belonged to you, it was with another
woman and never could be yours. All the affection, all the tenderness
that I have given, has been falsehood, perjury and infamy. And not
because I pretended that tenderness and the affection that flowed
instead in spurts, with all sincerity and passionate outpouring from
the bottom of my heart, but because the consagrártelos, skipping the
oath, breaking the mark of loyalty had Echeloría on my soul, and I
downgraded to villainy