 I
wish ...

In another trip to Brest, Ferragut expected to let him go long enough
Auray to climb the stairs on their knees, to see Santa Ana and back
on board.

Was not the ship at the commercial port. Had passed the military port, narrow estuary that twists
through the interior of the city, splitting it in two. A large swing bridge put in touch both sides,
bordered with large buildings and tall chimneys, workshops of marine deposits, stocks, dry docks
for cleaning ships. Tugs continuously moving and muddy green water. The vapors in repair aligned along
of the piers, under continuous hammering resounded their plates. Topped barges coal hills were
slow to be placed on the sides of ships. Under the bridge rotating the boats arriving and departing
from the battleships, leaving floating docks off-duty crews, who
greeted with shocking jump to the ground screaming.

Mare nostrum remained isolated while workers installed array on its
stern a rapid-fire cannon and apparatus for wireless telegraphy.

No one could enter it not belonged to his crew.

The families of the sailors waiting for them at the dock, and had occasion to know Caragol to
many of Brittany, mothers, sisters or pledges of new friends. She loved these women: were dressed
in black, with wide skirts and white caps and rigid brought to his memory the play of the
nuns ... Some girls, tall, fleshy, blue-eyed and candid, laugh with Spanish without understanding
a word. The old, wrinkled face and dark as wintry apples, clashed with his glass of greasy spoon
Caragol in neighboring port.

All honor to a drink made in due course and had great faith in the saints. The Cook no longer
needed ... Excellent and friendly people!

Some boys decorated with the Croix de Guerre told him his exploits. Survivors were of marine rifle battalions
defended Dixmude. After the battle Marne had sent to break up the enemy on the side of Flanders.
Did not exceed six thousand, and aided by a Belgian division supported the thrust of an entire
army. Their resistance had lasted for weeks: a bout of barricades in the streets, fights over
a channel with the bitterness of old approaches.

The officers shouted their orders with sword broken and bandaged head, the men were fighting
without thinking about their wounds covered blood, until they fell
dead.

Caragol little fond of military companies, is excited telling this Ferragut heroic struggle, just
because she had been on his new friends.

- So many died, captain, almost half ... but the Germans could not move forward ... Then, when
he learned that the sailors had not been more than six thousand,
general Boches it pulled their hair: such was his rage!

Believed to have been in front of tens of thousands ... It's nice to hear tell that to the guys
who were there.

These "boys" in the war wounded, who had gone to the Naval Reserve and manned Mare Nostrum, one
was distinguished by the preference of the old. Could speak Spanish, account of his transatlantic
voyages, and also was born in Vannes.

Just approaching his dominions, came to meet him with a smile of invitation: "A soda ... Vicente?
"The best seat was for him. Caragol had forgotten his name as unnecessary. As of Vannes, could
only be called Vincent.

The first day they were spoken, the sailor, in love with his country, he described the beauties
of Morbihan, extensive inland sea surrounded by forests, pine-covered
islands, antiques venerable of the city, its Gothic cathedral, abundant
in tombs, including that of a saint Spanish: San Vicente Ferrer.

A Caragol gave heart sank. He had never troubled to find out where he was the grave of the
famous apostle of Valencia, .. Suddenly remembered a line from the
"joys" singing at the altars of the saint's devotees from their land.

Indeed, gone to die "in Vannes in Brittany" geographical name which until then had no meaning
for him ... And this guy was Vannes! It was not necessary anymore to look at him with the same
respect had he been born in a wonderland.

Describe him many times how was the saint's tomb in the transept of the cathedral, moth-eaten tapestries
that perpetuated his miracles, the silver bust that kept his heart ... In addition, the front
door of Vannes was called San Vicente, and memories of the saint were still alive in his chronicles.

It
was also suggested to visit this city when the ship goes back to Brest. Should be very holy
Breton land, the holiest in the world, when the miraculous Valencia, after running many nations,
had wanted to die in it.

No longer was amazed that this fine fellow he had collected in Dixmude covered with wounds and prove
themselves strong and healthy now ... On board the Mare Nostrum was
gunner: he and two comrades were in charge of the cannon.

Caragol no doubt offered to the lot of submarine come out to meet
them: the "boy Vannes"

I was going to shatter the first shot. A postcard gift of Breton, representing the saint's
tomb, was on the site in honor of the kitchen.

The old man prayed as if it were a miraculous picture, and the Christ Grao was staying in the background.

One
morning, Caragol was looking for the captain, who was writing in
his cabin.

Came of land, shopping at the market. Passing through the Rue de Siam, the most important route
Brest, where the cafes, theaters and cinemas, had a meeting.

- A
meeting - continued with mysterious smile -.

You'll never guess who are you? ...

Ferragut shrugged, and in view of their indifference, the old man wanted to keep for longer
a secret.

- The slut! - Added -.

That slut scented nice weekend and came to see him ... The Naples ... of Barcelona ...

The captain paled, first surprise, then anger. Freya "in Brest? ... How here came the spy? ...

Caragol continued his story.

Returned to the ship, and she, who was walking on a sidewalk in the Rue de Siam, had recognized him
or her.

- He gave me memories to you ... Is aware that no stranger can enter ship. He said he had tried
to come to him.

He rummages the cook in his pockets, pulling out a crumpled piece of paper, one sheet White ripped
from an old letter.

- Also gave me this paper, written in the same street with a pencil. You know what it says.
I have not wanted to watch it.

Ferragut, taking the role, immediately recognized the letter of it, but uneven, nervous, drawn
in haste. Just four words: "Goodbye. I'm going to die. "

"Lies! Always lies! "He said in his mind the voice of sanity.

He tore the paper, and spent the rest of the morning worrying ...
His duty was to pursue this espionage coming to do their work in a
port of war ... All vessels anchored near Mare Nostrum were under
threat of their ads.

Who could know whether their communications mysterious serve so that
he too was attacked by a submarine saw the exit Brest harbor!

...

His first impulse was to denounce it. After he repented, by scruples of a gentleman absurd ... It
would have to explain his past to the heads of Brest, who hardly knew him. One Marine was far
Thessaloniki knew how to understand the errors of passion.

Wanted to monitor itself and in the afternoon he went to the ground.

He hated to Brest, as one of the boring cities of the Atlantic. It rained constantly and was not
otherwise distraction of the eternal walk down the street from Siam to remain dull or in cafes,
full of marine and ground officers English and Portuguese.

Public facilities ran day and night: he made inquiries at the hotels; took carriages to visit
the most picturesque suburbs. For four days, insisted on his searches,
to no avail.

Came to doubt the veracity of Uncle Caragol. Maybe he was drunk when returning to the ship and
had invented this meeting.

But the memory of the paper written by her belied this assumption ... Freya was in Brest.

The chef explained it all just to harass the captain with new questions.

-
The female bird was going to pass.

Maybe they went in the afternoon ... Pure coincidence the meeting!

He had to abandon their investigations.

The ship's defensive works were completed; holds containing a shipment of missiles to the
army of the East and several guns unassembled. Departure was ordered, and a gray and rainy morning
left the bay of Brest.

The fog made it even more difficult the transition from the obstacles that obstruct this port. They
passed the dreary bay of the Dead, ancient burial ground of sailing vessels and continued sailing
southward in search of the strait, to enter the Mediterranean.

Ferragut felt pride when considering the new look of the Mare Nostrum. Wireless telegraphy I kept
in touch with the world. He was not the servant of fate merchant captain, confident his good
luck and incapable of repelling an attack. Radiographic stations watched by it along the coast,
advising changes course to avoid the enemy in ambush. Chirped devices
invisible holding dialogues.

In addition, the stern was the barrel, protected by a canvas hood, ready to take office.

Saw almost made the dreams of his childhood, when pirates devouring stories and novels maritime
adventure. He was captain titled lawful "and Commander" as the old sailors. If the submarine
went before him, attack him with the bow, if he tried to chase, could
respond to the barrel.

His humor made him crave adventurous one of these meetings. Missing in his life a sea battle.
Wanted to see how these men behaved quiet and modest that they had
made war ground and seen the death of close.

He soon made his wish. One morning, at the height of Lisbon, when just falling asleep after spending
the night on the bridge, he was awakened by screaming and running around the crew.

A submarine had risen to 1500 feet and going to the Mare Nostrum great
speed, no doubt fearing that the merchant vessel tried to escape.

To force him to stop, he sent his cannon shells that fell in the water.

The steam moderated his departure, but was to be placed in the best
position and maneuvering with relief your piece of poop.

In the first shot the submarine began to recede, keeping a cautious
distance, surprised that answered his aggression.

The battle lasted about half an hour, repeating the shots on both sides with the speed of quick-firing
artillery.

Ferragut was near the canyon, admiring the quiet cold with they managed their servers. One always
had a bullet in his arms, ready to give the companion who introduced
him swiftly in the smoking room.

The concentrated pointer all his life in the eyes, and leaning over
the piece the move, looking for the sensitive gray body that prolonged
water visible at first sight as much as a whale.

Suddenly, a cloud of splinters flew near the bow of the steam.

An enemy bullet had hit the edge of the roof that covered the kitchen and ranches of the crew.
Caragol, who was at the door of his domain, he raised his hands to his hat. Upon dissolution
the yellow tag and smelly, we were all standing, scratching the top
of the head discovered and red.

- It's nothing! - He said -.

A piece of wood that has made me a sangria.

Fire! ... Fire!

Howled, fired by the cannon. The smell of drugstore smokeless powder, the noise Dry the explosions
seemed to intoxicate.

Jumped and pawed with the ardor of a dance warrior.

Aft gunners redoubled their activity: the firing was continuous.

- There! - Shouted Caragol -. We have touched ... Touched him!

Throughout the ship was he who could at least see the effects of the
shot.

Barely reached to distinguish the silhouette of the submarine.

But notwithstanding this, continued raging in full force of their faith:

- He played ... Viva! Alive! ...

And the strange thing was that the enemy disappeared instantly from the blue surface. Gunners
even a few shots went against his periscope.

After the site was only occupied by it a bright white sheet.

The steam went into this huge oil slick, a move that took the shimmering reflections.

The sailors were cries of enthusiasm. Felt that they had sunk the sub. The officers were less
optimistic: "Who knows?"

Had not seen him rise vertically to sink then on one end and a spindle
tip.

Perhaps he had suffered a simple breakdown that compelled him to
hide.

To Caragol was undeniable loss of the submarine. Considered unnecessary to ask the name that
had been smashed.

- Has been to Vannes ... Only he can be.

The other gunners did not exist.

And emboldened by his enthusiasm, out of hand two sailors who had
begun to sell the head with a neatness learned in ground combat.

Ferragut was satisfied with the meeting. I was not sure of the destruction of the enemy, but if you
had saved could bring the news to the others that the mare nostrum
was able defense.

Their joy was beside him Caragol.

- Very good, veteran.

Write to the Minister of Marine to give him the Croix de Guerre.

The cook, taking seriously the words, declined. If you got any reward, it was for "Vannes boy." Then
he added, as reflecting the thoughts of his Captain:

- It's nice to browse and ... A steam you have left our teeth, and
no longer have to flee as a startled hare ... Let him make his way
in peace, because now it bites.

All the rest of the trip to Thessaloniki was without incident. The telegraph was kept in contact
with instructions arrivals land.

Gibraltar advised to surf along the coastline Africa, Malta and Bizerte told him he could go
on, because it is the passage between Tunisia and Sicily clean of enemies. Far Egypt came within
his reach reassuring messages while sailing between the Greek islands
with the bow to Thessaloniki.

The return was to take charge at the port of Marseilles.

Ferragut did not worry about the ship when it was anchored. French officers were which is understood
to port authorities.

He simply be a justification flag, a neutral country captain was asserting its presence nationality
the vessel.

Only at sea recovered the husband, becoming obey all about the bridge.

Marseille wandered as usual, from the early afternoon on the terraces of Cannebière cafes.

An old man engaged in commerce Marseille captain talked with him before
returning to his office.

One evening, Ferragut stared vacantly in a Paris newspaper that carried his friend.

Suddenly drew his attention to a name printed at the head of a short article. Surprise made him turn
pale, while you catch something in his chest. He returned to spell the name, fearing she had
suffered a hallucination. It was impossible to doubt, was clear: Freya Talberg.

He took the newspaper from the hands of his companions, disguising his impatience with a wave
of curiosity.

- What do today's war?

...

And while the old sailor gave him news he read feverishly then grouped lines of that name.

He was disoriented. Were not much for him, ignoring the above facts mentioned by the newspaper. These
lines meant a simple protest against the government because there was subject to the famous
sentence Talberg Freya who had sentenced them. The article ended mentioning the beauty and elegance
of the offender, as if such qualities to be attributed to delay in punishment.

Ferragut strove to give his voice a tone of indifference.

- Who is this guy? - Said pointing to the title.

His partner had to make a memory. Many things were happening during the war!

- A Boche, a spy, sentenced to death ... It seems that a lot of work here and in other ports giving
notice to the German submarines out of our transport ... The seized in Paris two months ago, while
returning from Brest.

He said that the friend with indifference. They were so many spies! ... Often newspapers published
news of shootings, two lines just as if it were an ordinary accident.

-
That Freya Talberg - continued - has made enough of him to speak.

It seems to be a woman chic: a novel kind of lady. Many protest that have not yet operational. Is sad
to have to kill a person of their sex.

Kill a woman, and a beautiful woman! ... But nevertheless, it is necessary ... I think to be
shot at any moment.

XII

Amphitrite! ... Amphitrite!

The Mare Nostrum Marseille made another trip to Thessaloniki.

Ferragut looked in vain for further news before leaving Freya in Paris newspapers. Several events
for a few days distracted public attention, and was momentarily Spy forgotten.

On arriving at Thessaloniki was discreet questions to his military friends in cafes and marine port.
Almost all were unaware of the name Freya Talberg.

Those who had read the newspapers responded with indifference.

- I know who he is: a spy who was an artist, a woman of a certain chic. I think it's been shot
... I do not know the way, but they having executed.

Had more important things to think about. A spy!

... Everywhere encountered with the workings of German intelligence. Had to shoot a lot ... And
immediately forgot the subject to talk about the hazards of war, threatening them and his companions
weapons.

Ferragut When he returned to Marseille, two months later, did not
know whether his former lover was still among the living.

The first evening he found in the coffee contertulio Cannebière his
old Captain, cleverly routing the conversation was to be able to formulate
the question naturally he had in his thought: "What had become of
those that so preoccupied Talberg Freya told reporters before leaving
him to Thessaloniki ?...»

Marseille had to make an effort to remember.

- Ah, yes ... Boche
spy! - Said after a long pause -. The shot a few weeks ago. Newspapers
have not talked much about his death. A few lines, these people deserve
no more ...

Ferragut's friend had two sons in the army, a nephew
had died in the trenches; another pilot on board a transport, had
perished in a torpedo. He spent many sleepless nights, thinking about
the fate of their sons fighting in the front, and this concern was
a harsh and fiercely patriotic enthusiasms.

- Well is dead ... She
was a woman, and the executions of women are painful. Always cause
reluctance to treat them as men ... But I'm told, this individual,
with notices of his spying, contributed to torpedoing of sixteen vessels
... Ah, Poor beast! ...

And he said no more, going to talk about
something else. All showed the same revulsion to make a memory of
the spy.

Ferragut eventually involved the same sentiment. His brain
had split with the duality contradictory of all the critical moments
of its existence. Freya hated thinking about their crimes. Remembered
as a man from sea to anonymous colleagues killed in the torpedoes.
This woman had been the trainer unaware of many murders ... At the
same time evoked the image of the other, the lover who knew his wiles
to keep him with the old Naples palace, making the prison voluptuous
best memories.

"I do not think more on it - he said vigorously -.
He died ... Does not exist. "

But even after her death left him in
peace. His memory was quick to resurface, adhering to him with a tragic
interest.

The same afternoon he talked to his friend in the coffee
Cannebière went to the post office to get the mail, which was sent
to Marseilles. Handed him a thick packet letters and newspapers. In
the letter envelopes and stamps was guessing who wrote to him: a single
letter from his wife, consisting of a single sheet, judging by its
flexible thin, three very bulky Toni, kind of diaries, in which was
telling to shop, their crops, hopes to see come to the captain, all
mixed with plenty of news about war and unrest of the people. In addition,
several sheets of banking institutions Barcelona Ferragut realizing
the use of their capital.

Standing on the steps of the palace, finished
reviewing your correspondence on the outer face. Was similar to that
found at the back of his travels.

I was going to keep in their pockets
and move on, when an envelope caught his eye voluminous unknown letter,
certificate in Paris ...

Curiosity made him open it immediately,
and saw in his hands a sheaf of true leaves loose, a long story that
went beyond the limits of a letter. He looked at the printed letterhead
and then the signing. Which he wrote was a lawyer in Paris, and sensed
by the paper Ferragut luxurious and address of her home that was to
be a famous maître. So remember to have found ever his name in the
papers.

He began reading the first page there, longing to know why
because he wrote the serious character. But scarcely had spent the
eyes for a few lines, stopped reading. He stumbled over the name of
Freya Talberg. This was his defense attorney to the Council war.

Hastened
to save the letter, dominating his impatience. Felt the need for quiet
absolute seclusion and loneliness experienced by a passionate reader
to acquire a new book. This bunch of papers contained for him the
most interesting stories.

Speaking to his ship, it seemed the longer
route than usual. He longed to be locked in his cabin, far from curiosity,
as if to make a mysterious operation.

Freya did not exist. Had disappeared
from the world in a shameful, criminal and disappear, doubly doomed,
but even their memory was repelled by the people, and Ferragut, within
Moments later, it was going to emerge as a ghost in the houseboat
she had visited twice. Could know the final hours of its existence,
wrapped in a mystery of contempt could force the hand of the judge,
who had condemned to loss of life and after death to perish in the
memory of all.

With real eagerness sat at the table of his cabin,
tidying content about: more than twelve pages written on both sides
and several newspaper clippings. In these cuts saw the picture of
Freya, a hard and confusing picture. Recognized only by their name
placed at the bottom: it had been another woman. He also saw the portrait
of his defense: a old lawyer, neat appearance, with finely combed
white hair and youthful eyes.

Ferragut guessed from the first lines
that the maître could not write or speak without literature. His letter
was a measured and accurate story, in which the emotion, to live was,
it contained quietly, not wanting to mess up the folds of a regal
style.

Began his professional duty to explain how he had decided
to defend a spy