 Siéntome,
and humbled when I think that there are countries in the world in which I walked vulgar sadness
and shed tears as unmanly. I remember one day I wept sincerely, with bitterness, like a child
who tears do not make blush, the edge of a sea that has witnessed miracles, not divine but human.
He was alone, foot in the sand, sitting on a rock among many who were bronze rings which in other
times had been moored ships. Nobody on the beach was not abandoned by history, or in the sea
on which there seemed to pass even a candle. A white bird flew between heaven and drawing its water
moved over the sky blue plumage and playing it on the calm waters. Was only to represent the
same hour, in one place, the smallness and greatness of a living man. He threw the name of Magdalena,
shouting with all my strength to repeat what the loud rocky shore and then a sob choked my voice,
and filled the heart of confusion I wondered if the men of two thousand years ago, so brave,
so strong, had loved as much as us.

Although he had been told that my absence would last many months,
I returned after a few weeks.

Nothing in the world would have made me extend my trip one more day.

Magdalena I thought even four or five hundred miles of it when one night I went into a lounge
where he was sure he would find. When he saw me made a motion involving unwise.

Very few had been informed of my absence. It disappears just as easily in our large Paris, that
any man would have time to go round the world before anyone had noticed his departure.

Magdalena greeted as if he had seen the day before. At first glance understood returning to her
totally exhausted, hungry to see her and the intact heart.

- I have troubled you a lot - he said.

And sighed. It seemed as though my back instead of causing fear of it empty, on the contrary,
a concern more bitter than all others.

Was reapplied in their task crusher. The means used to "cure"

(was the only word that was used to define a company in which it
was, indeed, their salvation and me) all were bad when they emanated
directly from their support.

Thereafter wanted intervene alone in that struggle of which she was the cause.

- I'll undo what I did - I said a proud day challenge led to madness.

All his blood had left her cold. Indiscretions committed sublime transcended despair. Since
it was not enough to help me as close as possible, lend encouragement when fainted, calm if I was
exasperated. She felt that its action it contained fire, and insisted on extinguish them hour
after hour watching my most secret thoughts. For that would have been necessary multiply infinitely
repeated visits and too often. Then was when I figured out ways to see me home. Got this one
frightful audacity that only allowed women to risk their honor and to act with unquestionable innocence.
Bravely gave me appointments. The site chosen was always the desert, though somewhat distant
from home.

And lest you imagine that such shipments would profit Dangerous frequent occasions when the
Earl of Nièvre was absent. No, when he was in Paris, at the risk to find, lost, came at the appointed
time and almost always so in control of herself, as decisive as if everything had been sacrificed.

His
first look was all a test.

I was enveloped in that vast and dazzling look I wanted to probe my conscience and to recognize
in the bottom of my heart shaped storms or resigned from the previous day. His first sentence
was a question: "How will you you? " How is that you? meant: "Are you more reasonable?"

At times I replied bravely with a semimentira, which never reached to deceive, but awoke in his mind
curiosities and concerns of another kind. He was leaning on my arm and walked under the trees,
silent intervals or by speaking with apparent calm two friends who have come across. She discovered
during those hours of searing insight, revealed to me - like so many wonders, - treasures of disinterest,
of dedication, foresight remedies almost equal to the depths of his charity. Ordered my life
badly dressed, or rather in complete disarray, no devoted as soon as to toil more hype, as the
excesses of the greater inertia.

Censored my cowardice, my fainting was indignant and accused me of invective I pleased generously,
because he claimed that they saw the concerns of an evil spirit balanced
and more perplexed than fair.

Had I been able to conceive a bit milder ambitions led to the actual value she instilled, they
had developed in my mind with flames of fire.

- I see you happy - I said .-- If you knew with what fervor I want!

Ordinarily hesitate at the word future that we both hurt to augury ay! too reasonable. What
perspective, what she discovered out beyond the next day limiting our dreams? No indeed. The vague
and replaced with chimeric as the last hope they have left nothing to expect or even have to wait.

When
I was going to have to miss that mission almost every day, she met with the enthusiasm of a doctor
who is sacrificed, the next day asking me as if it were an excuse of a failure. He had come not knowing
whether to accept the terrible sweetness of relief.

I felt myself slipping into such perfidy that was because I do not discern to what extent
was guilty or unhappy. Despite myself plotting heinous plans, and every day Magdalena unknowingly
was treason. I was not in a position to ignore that there is no value to withstand certain
tests, more invincible virtue undermined at every turn is at serious
risk and that of all diseases which sought to cure was the most contagious.

Having

suddenly absent Count Nièvre, Magdalena me know that our rides should be suspended. The resumed
after her husband returned with more determination and greater enthusiasm. The perpetual me, qui
feci adsum me - me, cause I'm just - again under all forms in paroxysms of generosity that filled
me with shame and happiness.

Thus he came to the steepest point of an attempt to which no woman has heroic been achieved without falling
down. Still remained some time and not lose heart fearlessly too, as a being possessing supernatural
resources to whom the vertigo was deprived the sense of danger and excess retained on the brink
of a sudden his paralyzing reason. At that moment I realized I was exhausted forces. That
miraculous organization defended herself. No regret. Did not confess
anything to betray weakness.

Recognized helpless and discouraged was put it all to chance, and
chance caused her fear as the most uncertain of all auxiliaries, the
most treacherous, perhaps the most threatening.

Filing exhausted, was open up his heart with both hands and show the evil that he had done me.
He did not throw or a wail of anguish.

Faint collapsed. One day I said:

- I have cured you, Magdalena, I do not love.

She stood, was horribly pale, hesitated as frightened by an evil penetrated
to the bottom of the soul.

- Oh, relax you, the day that this happened
!...-- added.

- The day that happened ...-- she repeated.

And her voice failed and began to mourn.

The next day, however, again. I saw her alight from her carriage so changed, so miserable I was
shocked.

- What do you have? - I said running to meet him, so I felt close to fainting.

He recovered somewhat, thanks to a prodigious effort, he could not hide, and he replied only:

-
I am very tired.

Then I was struck by a horrible remorse.

- I'm miserable - I exclaimed, - cored and honest feelings. I knew not save, it comes you to
me and I lose.

Magdalena, I do not need you, I do not want any more help or anything
else ... Do not want to help, so dearly bought at the expense of a
friendship that I have too heavy and that would eventually kill you.

Sustained or not, I just care. My relief will emanate from myself, my misery I concern myself,
and whatever the end of them and not extend to anyone other than me.

I heard at first unanswered, such as reduced to that state of morbid dejection child or fragility
that makes us unable to understand the harshness of certain ideas
and making a decision.

- Let us part - I said - completely.

Yes, Let us part, the better. We see more, Let's forget ... Paris disengage us abundantly without
that we put between us many miles away. The first word you pronounce warning me that I need
you again to find. Otherwise ...

- Otherwise ...-- murmured slowly emerging from its torpor.

He spent a few seconds to look at the bottom of his soul that phrase
for both enclosing the threat of a final goodbye.

At first it seemed as if they do not give readily understandable.

- It's true - he continued, - I am a rather weak point of support, right? a reasoner that tired, a
friend, perhaps, useless ...

Then he saw that looked less harsh solution. And noticing that I was awaiting a response drowning
anxiety, made the unusual gesture of patients killed by the pain, who is tormented by talking about
serious matters and said:

- Why, then, you have come to propose the impossible? I harassed you at your pleasure ... Go
friend ... Go, I beg. Today I am sick. I can think of a word of advice be given. You know better
than me what chance there is in this game ... The one you take will be the only reasonable:
the esteem in which I give and friendship that you profess I can not doubt.

I left her bewildered and resigned, of course, to certain ends separate us forever when neither
wished. Managed only looked at my behavior ensure a continuous separation, soft, which could perhaps
lead us to establish among us warmer agreements and pacify all without too much sacrifice. I stopped
threatening to that sentence of oblivion, desperately tired to be honest, and that smile would
have mercy, if she had had to turn a bit of calm on the day I proposed
as a means.

Continued to live very close to it to show that the party adopted was less extreme and far
enough to leave it free and not impose complicity of which I blushed.

What happened then in the spirit of Madeleine? Judge for yourself. Just relieved paper special
confidant and savior, was suddenly transformed. His genius, his continent, the sweetness of her
look, the perfect equality of its composite nature and malleable
gold steel, ie, forgiveness, and true virtue, natural that strong
without harshness, patient, together, always in the balance of a lake
sheltered from the wind, that ingenious friend to find sources of
comfort, that exquisite phrase inexhaustible mouth, everything changed.

I saw one appear to be new, bizarre, incoherent, inexplicable and
fleeting, sour, sad, hurtful and somber, as if he had been surrounded
by perils, just as I sacrificed wholeheartedly devoted to his life
and pave it aside into the shade of a concern.

Was sometimes in tears. Devoured immediately, passed his hand the eyes with a gesture of resignation
and boredom and the like would have wiped made with a nasty stain. For all blushed as if he had been
caught in contemplation of a bad idea. I noticed that her sister approached more closely than ever,
that too often left leaning on the arm of her father, who adored her, but he did not have the same
interests that she or the mores of high society.

One day I went to his house, and my visits were rare, he said:

- Will you see Mr. Nièvre? I think he's in his cabinet.

Called, did inform Monsieur Nièvre and between us.

He was extraordinarily clever during that visit, the first perhaps
he had made attitude of ceremony.

The Lord of Nièvre was more flexible, without leaving some reserve, warned that more evident
as it was becoming more systematic.

Almost alone held the weight of a conversation that every moment threatened to run out and leave
us with an open mouth. Thanks to that effort of skill and comedy will we represented reached
the end without fail, and there was no margin for any incident that
became too shocking.

Summed up to me this use of his nights of the week, but without my
presence, course.

- You come with me tonight? - She asked her husband.

-
I ask one thing I think not having denied ever - said Mr quite Nièvre
chill.

I went to the door of his office, leaning on the arm of her husband, an upright, confident
at the solid support. I greeted her warmly responding exactly to the tone but its cold farewell.

- Poor, dear woman - I thought of it while I was away .-- Dear awareness that have given rise
to many fears!

And one of those reactions that disgrace in an instant the best impulses, I remembered those statues
resting on a support that holds them in balance and inevitably fall if they are missing that
point of support.

XIV

Augustine then informed me the realization of a project that this honest heart caressed since long
time, and you will recall that it was announced.

I continued seeing Augustine, not lost moments, he was wanted by the opposite, and you was available
to me every time - and were common - they felt the need to immerse healthier waters. I could not
give me better advice, nor was it possible that gives me solace more effective. He never spoke
to me - although my selfish grief of all sweating through my words
- but their way of life itself was an edifying example many lessons.
When I was very tired, very discouraged, very humbled by some new
cowardice, was to him and watched his life as it's going to take the
idea of ??attending physical force to an assault on fighters. I was
not happy. Success was not even that hard and rewarded laborious value,
rather than vile favors, but at least he could confess his fainting
and the difficulties that opposed him in those fights were not as
active of those who make up flush to the face.

I knew one day I was
not alone.

Augustine took me the novelty - that in many ways assumed
the gravity of a secret - in nursing a long night spent at the head
of my bed. I remember it was late winter, the nights were still long
and cold, and hassle of return to their home as Later he decided to
wait for the day in my room. At midnight came to interrupt Oliverio.
It came from a dance brought in dresses like the smell of luxury,
clusters of women and pleasure, and in his face, a little folding
of the vigil, wearing festive glow and some pale, some excitement
that he payed infinitely seductive elegance