 Stuck eyes
on her with an expression of joy and sincere affection, as if a garment should find hearts to
those who had not seen in a long time, as if Rosa was now a being that he owned. This view came to
the bottom of the soul of the village. They did not know what to say. Finally, Andrés uttered
some incoherent words about how well suited her suit your premium. Maximum Aunt Eugenia and
watched them grinning.

At eleven o'clock the solemn mass was celebrated in the parish, and as we were ringing the second
time, everyone in the house were placed outside to hear it. Aunt Eugenia, Andrew Rose, Max
and a nephew who had with them was thrown out, leaving it closed. People driving on the street
also started to move toward the church. Going Andrew front, with Rose and Max. Aunt Eugenia escorting
them shaking hands with the small. By the way, it was broken and very pleasant and shaded by
trees, as almost all of the mountain, Rosa and Andrew did not stop to speak with their eyes their
hearts, lips articulated words insignificant about the party, time or bonfire night. When Maximum
surprised including some loving gaze, looked down, smiling mischievously showed himself too complacent,
they pulled the tongue to be in love should say presence, was slightly pushed to Rosa to be
closer to the young, asked them questions an impertinent tantico the blush; adopted, finally, a
protective attitude that Andrew was very funny. At that time, the young courtier was the all
beautiful. His lips were constantly folded with a happy smile.

The church was more graceful than that of Riofrio, well enjalbegadita. I sat on a break that
made the foot of the mountain had an escort behind a vast and beautiful chestnut decline. As so many
people who came to hear the solemn mass was celebrated at this outdoors on an altar erected
in the rear of the church. Heard the faithful scattered under chestnut. Beneath the chestnut was
also a platform for singers formed with four banks. The altar was protected by a canopy or
awning made with blankets, to left had placed a pulpit for the preacher.

Andrew Rose, Aunt Eugenia and Max sat in the shade of a chestnut tree, awaiting the mass. The
contours of the church offered welcome perspective. The pilgrims swarmed by everywhere with
much merriment. Some clergy, in surplice, moved rapidly among the crowd, arranging the preparations.
The piper and drummer took their place of honor in the gallery, and rocketeer, always surrounded
by a swarm of boys, remained in secluded spot with a bundle of rockets on the one hand and a
lit fuse in the other, serious still, quiet, well persuaded of a high and paramount destiny.

Finally left the clergyman officiating, followed by the deacon and subdiácano. The chasuble and
layers rain the sun shone bright reflections bouncing. The crowd settled down to attend the divine
office with severe and prolonged noise, which was gradually fading. Burst out voice clerics
and supporters of the rostrum. Behind the clerics who held, by way assistant, also with surplice
dress, driving a huge censer was Andres Celesto. His nose gleamed in the sunlight like a chilli
pepper.

The Mass was long and heavy. Andrew did not notice. As the officiating priest and the crowd attending
prostrate, his eyes barely deviated from those of Rosa, which often made them also to him,
moist and ecstatic. The site occupied was very nice. There appeared from there all the beautiful
valley of Marin. Ran a light and healthy fresquecillo waving trees. The withered leaves fell off,
turned a moment and then fell like rain on the lawn. When the priest raised the Host, the bagpipes
and drums played with verve real progress, the man fired rockets profusion of them in an instant,
the crowd leaned further to the forehead almost touching the ground. Andrew felt a tenderness singular,
and before getting up, groped Rosa's hand and squeezed it gently.

Near the end of Mass, Celesto laboriously began to cleave the crowd kneeling giving kiss a scapular.
When I met with Andrew and Rosa was next, could not repress a movement of surprise, but immediately
recovered and handed them the scapular, which they devoutly kissed.

When it was over, Andrew, who knew the greed of the villagers in general and Rosa's relatives
in particular, instead of accepting the offers of Aunt Eugenia, invited to dinner at a tavern,
along with Max, and D. Celesto José the toilet, I had sung at mass. At the suggestion of seminary
student, well versed in these matters, Winery down the Don Pedro, situated in the valley, about
three hundred steps people. It was a rustic building, on the one hand looked at the orchard and the
other to a large irrigated field, which, being the only place plain and clear that there were
close, we celebrated the procession, with permission from the owner. As there were already
some people in the press, Andrés asked the bartender if they could serve food in Pomar. Yes, and
continuous act of brashly slipped into it. While traveled from one end to another to time,
Celeste, besides calling Andrew, wanted to pry and find out the reason of being Rosa there. The
young man replied that, unable to leave that day for being barefoot horse his uncle, had come
to the party in Marin, where he had met casually with Rosa.

Miron seminarian as saying to me with that! but respectfully silent.

They sat down to eat under an apple tree whose branches, earrings, touching the tips on the ground,
forming a natural arbor. Andrew lay next to Rosa as a lover surrendered, using all the joints
to tell the sugary words heard. The young escuchábalas stunned, spellbound, eyes wet, flushed
cheeks, like with delight that Honey, feeling, however, a bitter
in the background, a vague presentiment of misfortunes that threatened.

The

bartender served them a huge source of ham and tomato. All hotly attacked. Andrew, after making
Rosa dish was also served with long hand.

- Do you remember, my friend Celeste - said getting a good piece in
their mouth - from when you sorry I can not eat a plate of ham and
tomato?

- Man, it's true - the seminarian said he looked up with
admiration .-- It seems impossible what you've changed, D. Andrew!

Everyone congratulated him. Ate merrily ran quite a jug of wine drinking Andrés bottled cider:
cambiáronse many barbs among Celesto, Max, Andrew and the toilet. The yellowing foliage of
orchard the sun broke. The breeze of the mountain temples. Breathed an atmosphere perfumed by the
aroma of the herb and the stacked blocks. The joy took possession of all. Rosa, who had smiled
sadly until then recovered boisterous character. When finished, she, Max and Andrew began to frolic
among trees, chasing each other with shouts. They sat to rest short time formed a group under
a tree and then around the game harder.

Had entered the farm some countrymen of those who drank in the press, to continue doing in the company
of the toilet and Celeste. Aunt Eugenia chatted with the bartender a little further. After a
while, and fierce dispute broke out between Don José metaphysics and seminarian The villagers listened
open-mouthed. Concerned the difference between the substance and attribute, the things that
exist per se and those that only exist in relation to others. The champions held on, angry,
their views, as exemplified to defend the tangible objects before them, the pitcher, cups, forks.
Whether it was messing the dispute and the voices were so high, that Andrew and his friends approached.
And going from the abstract to the concrete, uttered reached the one and the other part of
offensive and ugly words. Finally, blew a slap. Data were instantly to believe that he had received
was Celesto left cheek, which, far from right, as advised by the Gospel, went on the tiny church,
angry and rough, and probably would have caused some serious damage with their hands sacrilegious
to not having Andrew and the villagers had. However, while making futile efforts to free herself, announcing
verbally irrevocable intention to cut the ears to the toilet. He was very pale, it seemed manifest
for the low, short sentences, which it considered sufficient correction inflicted, Rather deemed absolutely
necessary a reasonable charge of punches to complete the work begun.

However, the ads were not frightening to Celesto immediate effect, Thanks intervention of heavy
drinkers.

After a while, the seminarian and the toilet was the best of friends, and hugged and kissed
tenderly shedding tears. Andrés left the group laughing, and went back to play with Rose and
Max.

The sun had cleared enough already noon. Maximum suggested to go aside for a ride for the pilgrimage.
Andrew and Rose agreed willingly. The field was particularly animated praise: dance here, there
fandango, lunch elsewhere. The crowd swarmed all over with noisy clamor. Our young people crossed
the half slowly, stopping to contemplate dances and candy tables, where Andres invited to her
classmates. The people looked curiously. Andrew, who was stripped of his coat, he wore a short jacket
and tight pants, narrow and bowler hat. So that, with a knotty stick in his hand, looked more like
Jándalos Jerez newcomer to the salons sensitive poet courtiers, and was with Rosa very nice and
concerted partner. It was going to side with innocent pride, smiling and happy as a bride comes
from the church to show her husband. He also was paid just it: did not see the whole field more
graceful girl happier or taste.

But without knowing who brought her, and had spread that the pilgrimage had Rosa away from home
with the gentleman who accompanied her. And this was because of that both mirasen and such wicked
smile faces cautioned narrowed towards them, which, angry and annoying after all, determined
to become Pomar. Max dragged down to some of her friends and several young men with them.
Called after a blind man who played the violin, and orchards below, unseen people, put together
a lively group dance about drinkers, where blue and toilets were still giving mutual satisfaction.
Our Young played for the common joy, ruffled and wrapped more than anyone, danced the fandango
Rosa, This was not a little laugh, then threw bare legs tired so original. Rosa experienced also
drunk from the hustle and presented herself in her true self, cheerful, funny, picaresque. Occasionally,
however, crossed his face a shadow suddenly put serious pale, and stared doggedly at any object.
Andrew, as I warned, tried to distract her.

In one of the times when they sat together on the grass to rest, they
saw very fast and haggard at the tavern, who whispered a moment with
Celeste.

This act came Andrew and kept going, calling him aside, said:

- D. Andrew, you need to escape into seguidita ... Guards are there
...

- To take me?

- I think so, sir.

- Well, I did not escape me
- said the young man with resolution .-- I have committed no crime.

-
D. Andrew, for Christ's sake, to hide ... Look who does not know what
is exposed.

These peasants are very cunning and they are going to build a trap.

- Nothing, nothing, not escaped me.

To all this, Rosa had come, suspicious of what it was, and with a
voice yearning and trembling began to say:

- Hide, D. Andrew, hide
... By hiding the Blessed Virgin!

...

Some villagers came behind, and aware of the case, he pleaded the
same.

One of them came to say

- Come with me, D. Andrew, skip this field, and I will take you to
a place where those beagle dogs do not give you ... At night you can
go anywhere you like.

But all instances were useless. The boy stubbornly refused to move from the site. Al After
all, the patent-leather tricorn flashed past the guards at the door of the winery and moved through
the trees. Andrew could not keep his heart latiese faster. Behind the guards came Thomas, who
was left behind. The young man stepped forward and asked a Guard:

- You come to arrest me, right?

- Are you Mr. D. Andrés Heredia?

- Server.

- Yes, sir, bring order
to stop him and give his father the young man who has escaped with
you.

- Well, I am at your disposal.

And to Rosa, who was sobbing madly into the arms of Max, said in affectionate
tone:

- Do not worry, Rosie, we'll meet again soon.

The guards spoke a moment with Tom to tell, no doubt, could have her daughter. Andrew then went
fine.

- If you like, sir.

- Here we go ... Bye, D Joseph ... Celeste, tell me the favor of my uncle ... Hasta la vista, lords.

Bystanders
saw him march with awe and sadness. Before entering the winery ran
with Thomas.

The peasant looked down under the gaze of the young and provocative.

In the procession the people were already aware of the event, so everyone stopped dancing and
dances to see him pass.

      Andrew chatting with the
    guards marching, affecting
    indifference. When he had
    walked past a dance, a villager came up singing some song of an old
song of that region:

If you take me prisoner I have a thief: Take
me because I won A girl's heart.

Andrew could not help smiling, and turning his face back to the place made a salute hand. Civilians
also smiled.

After they left the procession, walked around for different sites Lada of the young know, saving
a hill and marching across the field after some distance. Lada, however, there was closer
than he suspected. Came at a time same as night.

During the trip the guards tratáronle very politely, leaving betrayed that did not give any importance
to his crime, and they suspected that all would remain in thistles water, but did not get
them to say whether Thomas had been in Lada to report it.

They left him in jail, housed in the best room, which was still very
dirty and dilapidated.

The warden was treated with respect and kindness, knowing, as the
guards, the detainee was not a criminal.

As was tired of the previous night and the emotions of the day dress lay on the cot they gave him, and
slept deeply for a few hours. Early morning and was there his uncle, who had left before dawn
Riofrío.

- But man! ... But man!

The young do not know what to say and hung his head. Fortunately there
were no more recriminations the cure.

Immediately began talking about the media get out of jail. He had his plan formed: go see the judge
and say who was guilty and all that had happened. And indeed, did so. Then he knew that Uncle
Tom was the one who had denounced as a raptor Andrés his daughter
Rosa.

The judge found that as the young man arrested was the son of a former minister Supreme Court, who
knew by name, public writer and farmer, was quick come to take his
statement.

Then, with bail, ordered the release.

- Hey, you're free - he told
his uncle taking him to lunch at an inn .-- What matters now demon
boy, is that you leave as soon as possible ... Moreover, I understand
you, runs my account ... I undertake to prove that such theft has
been no such pumpkins ...

This was done.

That same afternoon, Andrew went back to a mining railroad car, slept in the capital of the
province, and twenty-four hours of travel was planted in Madrid.

XVII

What fat! What dark! How changed you are, Heredia friend! Where you have got that way?

Wherever he went, reached the court heard these or similar exclamations. The Friends embraced
him warmly, the friends admired his manly bearing, although there
were those who came more regular said, because the tastes are very
many.

I must not ensure that such exclamations sounded good. For a few days enjoyed the surprise
of his friends and acquaintances, walking as if in triumph on his face tanned chat rooms and
theaters. He went back, and with pleasure, in the mind of Madrid. As brought provision of health,
came quickly to all the places where they worship pleasure, knotted old relationships, turned to
writing in the newspapers and read poetry in the classroom.

After the first time, when all pleasant emotions rushed the court to provided, after his voluntary
departure, when these emotions were spent, and spirit was at rest, most often acudiole memories
of Riofrio and his flirtation with Rosa. Al first attempted to drown him, stunned by occupations
and recreations, and succeeded, after no longer could. The image was represented Rosa sad
and painful, suffering the cruelties of his father, who, after the past, would, no doubt much
higher. And began to prick remorse, particularly at times when he was alone at home or view
of trees and flowers you brought to mind the beautiful countryside of the branes. There written
to his uncle to you aware of what had happened on his absence, and not just receive an answer.
One morning, at last, having lunch alone in the dining room at the inn, we The waiter brought
a letter. When he saw the envelope open quickly with a trembling hand. His uncle told him that the
proceedings against him would have no consequences, that Thomas had done his best to entangle
and engage it, but had not succeeded, because Rosa said repeatedly that he had fled home for
fear of punishment, not the instigation of Andrew.

These statements thereby ignited the wrath of Miller, who once came close to beat her to death.
The people were indignant some neighbors had reprimanded hard, but would not listen. Finally,
the matter was settled, because Thomas, seeing I could not get nothing of it, came to the good
and away from the lawsuit by 5,000 reais the priest gave him. Everything was therefore relaxed
by then. I could live without fear. The I had done, however, was a skull in a bad kind: peace
had destroyed a family.

D. Fermin, at the end of his letter, he severely reprimanded and with very good reason.

When our youngest finished reading, he was calmer. As he left the house went straight to a banker and
turned to the order of his uncle, the money in the process. After did his best to forget those
events in the bustle of life in Madrid, but not achieved in many days. After some time, however,
poignant memories of their idyllic love went softening, becoming more gentle and melancholy, it became
a poetic dream that used to caress her in moments of ill humor.

After three months of his return had fallen into the same lazy life, sterile and unhygienic before
going to the branes.

Awake, stood very little at home, instead sleep for a number grown in hours, which caused him frequent
trouble with the cook and servant room. The lunch lasted from nine to twelve. He could never meet
with this requirement the internal rules of the house. Lunch at one, two, and sometimes the three
p.m.. The dream was upon him in the morning, lethargy rather because
he was a real that was lethargy, tiredness incomprehensible that deprived
him of all forces.

When brought by instances of getting up, it still lasted a long time this languor: could hardly walk;
yawned often and would give anything to turn back to bed.

Were gradually dissipating the colors of their cheeks, even though the agency did not appear
suffer. However, after some other months, began again to feel some discomfort in the stomach
and enflaqueció paled further. Achacolo the disorder of sleeping hours and eating. Gave no importance,
followed by life itself.

By this time received a letter from his uncle in Rose's news that he had escaped again home
because they can not suffer constant abuse from his father, who blamed the ruin and misery
that had fallen. Lada had gone to and was serving at the home of wealthy gentlemen. Andrew
was moved by the letter. Suddenly came to his mind the impressions of the country six months
of life, felt something akin to nostalgia, desires vehement to renew
the simple pleasures that he enjoyed and longing to see Rosa.

Poor Rosa! For two days, his image is constantly pursued, then the occupations and pleasures that
was delivered with soul and life slowly drifted from his imagination.

He spent the summer in Madrid, because he dared not go back to Riofrío. The heats not tested well.
In winter the disease flared up a little stomach, in addition, we undertook a cold, persistent cough
which made him quite at night. And how they felt each day worse, was agreed to leave in the spring
with a friend, who gave him to spend two or three months in a recreation property in her mountain
of Catalonia.

Recobrose the stomach with
                                     the active life of the field, but the cough continued bothering you
enough.

To make it disappear, on the advice of doctors, went to take the
waters of Panticosa.

Failed to significantly alleviated. He returned in mid-state to Madrid
in September. Since that time no longer enjoyed a day of health worse
every day, thinner and paler. In November surprised a strong vomiting
of blood that made him realize the seriousness of his condition. Still
About a month went by the street, but having repeated with more force
was needed to stay home. And it turned out. In one of the last days
of expiring January in the arms of two friends who accompanied him
faithfully in those last harrowing moments.

FIN

NOVELS OF THE SAME
AUTHOR PESETAS

The Señorito Octavio, a tome. (Sold Out) 3

Martha
and Mary (illustrated by Pellicer), a tome