 You will fall perfectly. I'm going to send. "

And he commanded. Another day spoke of clothing, with more heat. "The goat's hair, which I have
medium do not like. I will send it tomorrow ... As you may be necessarily bathrooms with her
husband, you can use it there ... No, I do thank you. If I can not use ... Also I shall get
the fichú with green velvet ribbon and a felt cap for you fix it easily. For bathrooms, delicious.
We also send flowers, feathers, aigrettes ... I have six drawers full of these things ... Today
I took the gown seamstress currant ... You know you not going very well? That color looks good
on only the thick, the fresh faces ... Do you want? You can make some changes, widen it a bit,
and you will ... The fabric is very rich.

"

Here's how they entered the house all these rich garments. Rosalia, as we have said, had no like
at all, and was stored in Kamon. Once, when his mind was calm, hopes for good was the doctor,
he would shut himself up in that piece to be tested gown, dress, hat ... Unable to resist temptation,
decided to Emilia several arrangements, extending a few things, reforming others completely.
At times, yielding to his passionate desire, out of the Carrion and took two or three laps around
the house with all those harness on his body. For this, waiting for the maid and the children were
outside and D. Francis Gasparini locked in with Paquito. More than once he was dressed up to the
admiration Candida, applying the criterion of such an approval or censorship wise. The widow always
touched felt the fury of applause, and to not give in noisy fuss, Rosalia it was reached with
the finger in his mouth, urging her to suppress any expression of astonishment and surprise, lest
some subtle ear perceives the Saleta what happened. THEN BECOMING Carrion melancholy to modest,
and there stripped of those galas, saying with sorrow: "No I have
like at all, not my spirit to these jokes.

"

The 26 was when Telleria, no longer able to contain the wave of sadness
that overflowed in his troubled breast, poured it on his good friend,
after this pathetic exordium has preserved the story:

"Also I'll
send you the muslin dress with purple overtones ... and all my lace
Valenciennes, Alencon and guipure point.

What do I want anything now? The few jewels I still may be some day for you ... I'm lost, I
have no choice but to hide, enter a convent, run, or what not ... If I could enter a convent,
would be the best ... And if God wanted me to carry, what service I would! ... But I do not know what
I mean ... It astound you see me so distraught, so upset, I do not look the same ... When you know
...! It's raining on me calamities, as if the Lord wanted to prove. Say so are merits for the hereafter,
and must be, must be, because if not, my friend, What saddest thing here and punish punish there?
... I was born with a bad star ... So far, conflicts that I have put my mariducho have been
such that I have been avoiding with skill ... God knows the great merit, what am I worth?, Heroism
in recent years. What hot flashes to sustain the dignity of the house, so that the children are
not missing anything! ... And some days, what eagerness horrible for the servants might say:
"The soup is on the !...» table much humiliation, how much suffering, and what a struggle, my
dear, what a struggle with creditors, with ordinary people and all kinds of beggars! ... But when
difficulties accumulate, when the system goes on much longer to open a hole to plug another
and extend and delay, comes a day when everything goes through it is like a boat too old and patched
that suddenly opens up ... Plum! ... .. y.. "

In reaching this from the damaged ship, the language of the poor lady, rather than language,
was continuous sobbing.

Rosalia nearly as distressed as she urged her to explain why of so much misery, to see if,
known in a clear and concrete, it was easy to look for remedy. But the Marquise was unable or
unwilling to expose their conflict in categorical terms. This was a matter of collecting end
of the month, a quantity small. If you did not have, you would see the biggest and more serious
commitment of your life, perhaps, or maybe without, exposed to contempt to be brought to the courts.
But what was ...? Maybe a friend had committed to remove the hard way and she had put her signature
unlucky ...? The very silly!, Why Why not cut his hand before ...? It is true that if he had
cut the little hand, there would had dinner on the night a thousand times unlucky 14.

Rosalia, who knew that the Marquise logic, told him why not write
to your manager Almendralejo that will advance the rent for the quarter,
albeit at a discount.

To which I replied, sighing Milagros already a likely solution had been inquired into and could not
have income until July 15 ... Of course, the rent was safe, and the person you make the advance,
you pay on time on that date.

- But can not you postpone ...?

- Impossible, daughter, impossible ... As impossible as flying oxen or my husband has common sense.

-
And your sister, Tula ...?

- Even more absurd ...

Rosalie shrugged.

He saw no salvation.

But Milagros, pursuing the crux of his sacase friend of that deep
rut I was in, cast it on his neck and muffled voice in the ear spelled
these words, more tearful than the cenotaph in which D. Francisco
had worked with such bad luck: "You ... you soul mate, you can save
...».

That said, he became a grief and a convulsioncilla of these women called attack nerve, to call
in some way, followed by a spasm of receiving the beautiful name of syncope.

XXIV

It was necessary to bring a glass of water, unbutton the vest, and
who knows what else.

- But I ... ...?-- Rosalie exclaimed how much
later, horrified - how can I can I ...?

- Asking for a D. Francisco.

I'll give you interest, the revenue they want and pay full-fledged
... Will the letter from my manager to see it.

He says he has the income to the 15. It is not my manager and the
Dona Candida, a vain phantom, but a being of flesh and bone.

It is well known that their advances are always twenty percent.

Rosalia head vigorously denied and the voice ... "My daughter, you are illusions. My husband does
not have a room. And if it did, it would not. You do not know him ...».

For this reason opposed the distraught Mrs Strict other denoting his
insight and infinite resources of his genius.

That D. Francisco had was an indisputable point, above any questions. Sitting this principle,
the issue was reduced to see how they emptied the mysterious treasure in the hands of Milagros
need. If a faithful wife took charge the company, which was not a church arch, or the transfer
could take place without with Bringas all. The faithful wife should have no qualms of conscience
on this action somewhat inaccurate and reckless, because the amount would be replaced before
the good lord was in a state of alert failure.

- Why, do you think D. Francisco will be the 15th of July?

This question, made by Milan in the heat of improvisation, hurt enough to Rosalia.

- I hope so, and if it were not so much as I wish, I would assume that he will soon see again.

-
Pardon me, dear friend, if I am slightly sensitive. Sometimes I say some nonsense ... You do not know
what a situation like this as I see it. You live in the glory and does not include what we squirm
and we cooked and even blaspheme the damned in this inferno Madrid ... Things that I can think
...! In a case like this, do not panic you and Believe what I say ... in a case like this, I
imagine it would be even capable of appropriating the alien ... means with the intention of returning.
Ay! When I enter my house and I see the doorman in his little low, eating a garlic soup with the
concierge, envy me ...! I would like send to my principal and I stay in goal, although the site
had to sweep all morning, clean the metals and wash the stairs up and down ... If what I say,
I would rather lock myself in a convent and not remember most of the world. But my children,
my poor kids ... What would they be then? ... When married to Mary, who knows can ...!, be,
maybe I decide to seek rest in the religious life ... At least, I will resign life to the world
and I gathered in my own house, that I may not dress a habit of Carmen, and peace here ... In the
morning my church, in the afternoon to visit some friends, and at night home ... Bed early,
that is as healthy as y. .. Oh, what a rich life! ...

After re-insinuate their claim, but not getting cold Rosalia negative
suddenly said:

"To see how we managed to go together to bathrooms.

I am very late, but before In early August I think it may be. Did not the doctor say yet what
it will take water Bringas? I'll go anywhere you go, because for my ills are the same waters
that works ... Everything is in a bit and shake him out of the oven. "

In this little trip to the baths was Rosalia more communicative than in the previous issue. While
wishing to summer but had not the doctor say anything conclusive. Brinker did not want to go
do costs, but if the doctor ordered, how to refuse it ...? The lady herself did not sit use some expansion
and movement, as was delicadita and somewhat impaired ... This gab of dresses became bathrooms,
and after the comments came the Pronatura ... Rosalie was in Mozambique, and almost finished, and
her friend so warmly welcomed for good air than he had, that little burst of vanity the daughter
of a hundred Pipaón.

"If you are elegant ... if what you get is wonderful. The truth is not because you are my friend
... Everyone I say: if you want, it would not rival. What a body!, What a fall from his shoulders!
Frankly, you always want to dress that obscures As he comes alongside.

"

- That was Rosalia drooled with this flattery, I must not say. It was stupid person of such
merit that had to hide your good clothes, put it on the sly and invent thousand lies to justify the
use of various items that seemed tailored to her beautiful body by the angels of fashion. By
removing those galas front of her friend, thought in the enormous
problem of explaining the husband acquiring them, if they had more
but to show them off before your eyes or wear them.

Miracles did not say goodbye without compunction mannerisms repeat
his drowning and the relief requested.

Finally, Rosalia comforted his spirit with a see, and the face of the Telleria iluminose with
a spark of joy.

"Tomorrow - said at the door - I will send this blonde who liked you so much ... No, do not thank
me ... I'm the one to thank, and if you make me out of the swamp ... (Printed two sentimental sound
and kisses.) Eternal gratitude ... Goodbye. "

In those days he Archena D. Manuel Pez, pleased at how well he had been sitting waters, with good
color, better appetite and encouragement for all. His first visit was to Bringas, whose disease
had been reported in the bathrooms, and encouraged him a lot and offered to accompany in morning,
afternoon and night, devoting as much time as his duties allowed him free. He served this at face
value, and its presence in the house became so regulatory provision when it would seem that something
was missing. At times amusing the patient with the political events telling thousand pleasantry,
but was careful not to weigh the dangers of the Throne or wrong course taking things for my D.
Francisco, as he heard of the so-called revolution was put was sad and sighs that broke my
heart. When there were other accompanying in Gasparini, or when it was considered detrimental
very long conversation, fish would Saleta or the Ambassadors, where Rosalie, found the way,
changing a few words him. The lady noticed his friend a mute and ceremonious respect, and the
gallantry with which the gifts were always chivalrous and somewhat convoluted style. She corresponded
with feelings of admiration, of a spotless purity, because Fish was growing more each day
to his eyes, as a type of official character of the high official, lavish and courteous. In Pipaón's
mind, no ideal man would be complete without being bathed in golden atmosphere of a payroll.
If fish had not been used, would have lost much in his eyes accustomed to seeing the world as if
everything he was an office and did not know each other means of living than the budget. After
that elegant look that black coat closed without a speck, pressed,
stretched, as if she were born in the skin of the subject, those necks
as the driven snow, tall, stiff, trousers that seemed released the
same day, those hands carefully manicured woman ...!

XXV

And that way of combing as simple and as Mr. at the same time that use of fine discrete perfumes,
that perfumed leather pouch from Russia, fine manners and those that speak pompous, saying things
two or three ways to make them better understood ...! Ni once, whenever he said something,
let's use some clever phrase meaning and a little double. Rosalie had not heard perhaps like
if you do not inspire indulgence consideration of that very well deserved and that somehow the
company had to honor her debts, which until then had not been paid
in any way.

Came to be fish, in good faith, the relief from it, in the name of the company paid him forgotten taxes.

As
well the heat pressed mainly in the afternoon, because the house is to the west, the family
sought relief on the terrace. One afternoon, with doctor's permission, came out the same D.
Francisco, leaning on the arm of fish, and took a couple of laps, but did not sit well, and
rides were left until the patient is in a better condition. But verse that private entertainment,
like no others are private, and often called his wife to come out and get some air. "Daughter,
do not know what I get to see you locked in this casserole. I do not feel the heat, but you never
cease to walk from here to there, you will burned. Skip to the terrace. " The more often Rosalía
denied it. "I am not for walking ... let me. " But some evenings out. Mr. Fish was with her. One
day he came in first, it really was drowning in the heated cabinet saw with his robe appear gooseberry
adorned with lace, fanning herself