 

ROBERTO DI FEDERICO

SPASM

BUENOS AIRES

1909

INDEX

I. - The fact
II .-- The first investigations III .-- The memories of Roberto candle
plant IV .-- Story of a Soul V. - Duel VI .-- Research VII .-- Confession
VIII .-- The letter IX .-- Spasm

To raise awareness of the Italian
romantic literature, in its most modern in recent trends, we could
hardly have found something more to the point that authors like Federico
di Roberto and a book like spasm.

Federico di Roberto have now thirty-six years.

Is Sicilian, as Dick, the author of Cavalleria rusticana, with which
his literary talent presents some resemblance.

   As Dick, also
  is a realist, the realist who
 holds the light color native island.
  Its novels are of great dramatic
   intensity
  - even when kept in its
 guidelines a impeccable
elegance - something
  aristocratic in the design and shape, as revealed in all pages that
characterize the young writer a happy way.

With Arabeseos e Short stories brilliantly began his literary career, in which, despite being
in its inception has achieved success in resonance with I Vicera and we offer today this spasm
Argentine readers, whose direct translation of the language in which
it was written deserved special care from us.

In the drama that unfolds in this book involves intense and conflicting passions. Your environment
is a city in Switzerland, the refugee drama unfolds between nihilists, and the ardent struggle
the duty imposed by the political faith against a violent passion and captivating. Upon such
contrast, resulting in exciting scenes and characters intensely moving human underlying the
plot of this novel, about which we will say no more to not spoil the deep and sincere emotion
it produces in the reader's mind.

As you can easily notice, Federico di Roberto represented in modern
literature Italy a new note for us to fully differentiated D'Annunzio,
Fogazzaro and D'Amicis, who are the best known Italian novelist abroad.

And, reading Spasm we are confident that readers of good taste we shall have made them known account
embodies a strong talent that can be said, the new way of romantic Italian literature at this time.

SPASM

I

THE
FACT

Everyone who spent the fall of 1894 on the shores of Lake Geneva, no doubt remember yet the tragic
event of Ouchy, which was so impressive and so abundantly provided
food for curiosity, not just the people on holiday camps scattered
in all stations in the lake, but also the cosmopolitan public, which
the newspapers reported it.

On October 5, few minutes before noon, the sound of a gunshot and screams confused coming out of
the village Cyclamens, located in the middle of the road to Lausanne Ouchy, interrupted violently
usual tranquility of the place and attracted the neighbors and passersby. The Cyclamens villa was
rented to a Milanese lady, the Countess d'Arda, who had charge of
all the years, from June to November.

Countess friendship with Prince Alexius Zakunine, revolutionary Russian
who had been sentenced first in his country, expelled at once from
all States refugee Europe and recently in the territory of the Confederation,
was known from time ago.

The two lovers were in the village the day of the tragedy and the shouting, the same Prince Zakunine,
along with the detonation of the weapon, they go to the terrified servants, whose eyes appeared
a tremendous spectacle: the Countess lay lifeless at the foot of the bed perforated the right
temple by a bullet and a gun near his hand.

And even though the view of death, sudden and violent death, is such that no other the outdo
in horror, the presence of that body was not, however, which produced a thrill strong, but the appearance
of the survivor. Like a pale striped azalea crusade red, cold face of the unhappy, partially
stained with blood, was the color of wax, but it revealed nothing of the agony of contractions:
on the contrary, a serene confidence and something like a smile encouraged him still alive, slightly apart
the purple lips, behind which loomed just line the pearly teeth, open eyelids, the eyes turned
toward the sky, the dead appeared to be ecstatic, as if it had not abandoned the existence
of all, willing to testify that out of human life in silence and
in shade, had finally found the well-being and happiness.

Pale, haggard factions, hair in disarray over his forehead drenched in icy sweat, mad the eyes, trembling
lips, hands, whole body, as if it were a prey to fever, Alejo Prince instilled fear. After
asking for help and shouting hoarsely, had knelt beside the body and hugged him, all bloody,
and his troubled face no more than two words out short and boring:

- It's over! ... It's over! ...

In those words, the accent torn repeated that there was a breakdown, a bitterness, despair
so great that the dead no longer seemed to deserve such compassion as alive as inconsolable
man, overwhelmed by grief, it seemed, he also close to losing his breath. And sometimes, when his
hands got tired of caressing hands the hair, the clothes of the dead, carried them around the neck
with violent gesture, as if I would like to strangle, then the servants, all who had come, sought
to comfort, to wrest this cruel spectacle, but he, with wild momentum, rejected all from him,
stretched out his arms, stopped, and after walking unsteadily, if he were drunk, the fourth mortuary,
I fell back beside the body.

The villa was open to all, no one thought to prevent access. In the nearby House of Health had
come promptly Dr. Berard, who had only been able to verify death instant. The news was spreading
rapidly among the foreign colony, and curious flocked to the village,
especially those who knew the Countess and Prince, but no one could
get news of what happened, unless the servants.

Seemed Zakunine deaf and blind, unable to recognize people who approached
him, trying to shake hand, or hear the words of condolence, sympathy
sore phrases addressed to him.

Nor are the responses of the servants threw much light on the incident. Referring only to external
circumstances of the disaster, told everyone that the Prince had become to the town two days
earlier, after an absence of several weeks, that the lady had up this morning earlier than
usual and had remained an hour in the roof, while his partner worked at the desk, with a lady
who had arrived as at nine, that lunch before the countess had been sent to the city, with orders,
Julia, the Italian girl who had long-standing, that, when it was lunch to be served, the shot
had made everyone shudder: that the second floor, where they were
rooms at patterns, had launched the Prince on the ground floor like
a madman, asking to call a doctor, and that all had gone headlong
into the room of the Countess, where the foreigner, after trying in
vain to rescue it, had treated equally in vain, to console the despairing
prince.

Amid the confusion, few had noticed the presence of the foreign. This was a young just twenty
years, blond hair saffron, short, hair like a man clear eyes and look cool, rather small stature,
was dressed in black from head to toe. Right remained motionless in the corner of a window, arms
folded, head bowed, and hardly realized his presence curiosity began to stir.

In the circle that formed the most curious of these was the Baroness de Born Austrian woman, thick
and short, the only sex who had come to the village, and stared at the stranger, overwhelming
at the same time with your questions to the servants, those not knowing what to say in mixed
groups to discuss what happened.

- Poor girl ... Poor !...-- friend Baroness exclaimed .-- But why? ... How could he? ... What
has not written anything? Have not found anything left for her? ... There must be something ...
looking for ... Did he die at the moment? ... Suffered, it is true, but not so much that I could
not resist! ... He was strong, a very strong woman, despite her body thin and delicate ... Pains moral
...

And in a lower voice, addressed the young Englishman a red mustache,
blue eyes and bald forehead, he suggested:

- Do you believe that
to be happy?

The questioned responded with a vague gesture, which could mean both consent and doubt or ignorance.

-
And that poor Prince !...-- continued the Baroness, always looking for the low, continuous, foreign
to him .-- It is a pain and suffering ... Would need to persuade
someone that moved away ...-- And these words were aimed directly
at the young stranger; but as this did not answer, Baroness proposed:
- Why not put the body at least on the bed?

Speaking from the group around the corpse, and, seeing that the bystanders, approved their comments
sought and obtained to be allowed to pass.

Then came the Prince, which was currently leaning against the bed, arms hanging, hands and contracted
lost eyes still turned towards the dead.

- We can not leave her like this ... we want to put it on the bed ... Do you?

But he did not answer, or even seemed to have heard, and the Baroness put a hand on shoulder,
trembled as if shaken by a magnetic current, his gaze lost, lost,
disconsolate expressed an anxiety so awful that the loquacious lady
found that for a moment lacked the words.

- What a disgrace ... What
pain troubled !...-- said .-- There are, however, to have power enough
to resign themselves to fate!

... Doctor - he added, turning to Berard, who approached at that
time the Prince .-- We would remove the body there ... I suppose at
times that the poor little suffering on the ground!

... And all these people, do not it could ask to go away?

- Yes ... ...-- a doctor replied hesitantly, not knowing what to do .-- But before solving all,
we must wait for the judges ...

- Have they been notified?

- Here they come.

Indeed, the murmur of voices had become extinct in the next room, and in that instantly entered
the circuit magistrate in Lausanne, the police commissioner, a physician
and two gendarmes.

The first thing the judge did was to order him away to the mortuary of the room indiscreet and the room,
and complete this order, the police were placed in the door between that room with the other
little room, to keep people back.

Only kept the body, foreign, Dr. Berard, and his colleague from the police, who explained the
futility of all healing and rapid death, the Baroness de Born, that without anyone being asked,
reported what happened to the judge it, Prince and the commissioner.

- What do you attribute his fatal decision?

Was not there some were that he should expect? - Asked the judge, and the Baroness, despite being
unable to shut up, by that time simply shrugged shoulders and look
to the Prince, to signify that this was the only one who could answer.

Zakunine ran a hand across his forehead, as if waking from a deep sleep and said:

- Yes, you had to foresee ... Because I foresee ...

- Did he suffer
much?

- I suffered so much ... !...-- both said the Prince, with
a tone of deep sadness, that the same judge was shocked.

- Was he
sick? - Asked the court to the doctor, after a brief silence.

- Yes,
from a chest condition.

- Did what he had?

- Certainly.

It was impossible to hide anything. He was so intelligent and courageous, which lies were useless
with her compassionate.

- You could not hope to save her?

- His illness was one of those on the outcome of which can not be
cheating, but that by appropriate arrangements can live many years
yet.

- So it is not the only disease that has driven to kill?

-
It's not all - echoed Prince Alexius.

Very curious, almost comical, it was during interrogation that sad
attitude Baroness Borne, which, since he could not speak pursed her
lips, moving his eyes, shook his head, bent around the body, as if
repeated on the judge's questions and confirm the doctor's answers
and Prince, to see that she had provided the one and the other, and
also noted by signs that she had one observation.

And once then interrupted:

- That's it ... Also!

... Exactly! ... And with the religious feelings I had ...

- What were they? - Asked the judge.

- Few women I have known such strong faith and ardent - said the doctor.

-
Is it true ?...-- Baroness interrupted again .-- It seems incredible
how big it was his fervor!

I have a reason to know. There was a walk without an end not a church. His favorite trips were
Echallens district to Bretigny to Assens, Villars-le-Terroir, because
of the churches there was Catholic.

Sundays and holidays we spent hours here in San Luis, kneeling to
her missing forces ... And that was the point that I wanted to ask
you: who else is amazing how, with so much faith, was able to do what
he has done.

The prince did not speak. Nervous tremor shook him at first was calming down, the turbulent,
violent, terrifying expression on his face pale and his eyes went red transforming: pale, exhausted,
powerless, he also appeared next to fall.

- She was alone when he killed himself?

- Sola.

- Did you speak to her this morning?

- Yes, spoke to her.

- Were you sad?

- Mortality.

- We could see if something has stopped writing.

Baroness clapped his hands and exclaimed:

- That's what I have said from the beginning!

The commissioner, a judge's signal, began to search.

There was little furniture in the room of the dead.

The bed, a wardrobe with mirror, a dresser, a small desk placed against
the window, in broad daylight, and at an angle a work table, was all
that was the household.

On the desk were two stacks of books in English white covers, a box
of paper; an old candy box, and a travel bag.

Working on the coffee table and nightstand were more books. The commissioner was recording one
one, opened the drawers of furniture, none of which was locked, and then to take a look at the feminine
elegance objects that were full, returned to the close. On the desk was the correspondence of
the deceased, in cardboard boxes rather old and a bag of Italian and French values ??and a
few thousand pesos in gold and silver. At the bottom of the drawer on the right found the commissioner
a as a book case lined in black velvet, and closed with a tiny key, and going to open it, when the
Prince took a step toward him, saying:

- This is a book of memories ... the day of your life ...

From the tone that made such an indication, by the attitude of his whole person, it seemed like
defend against prying eyes thinking of her poor intimate friend,
but the Baroness Borne said, approaching the court, which had been
in the hands of the Commissioner extracted by this book of his black
box:

- Sinovac can find something!

...

Also the book's cover was black, with silver clasps, like a book and mortuary single view expressed
sadness and pain that must have embittered the life of that unhappy. The judge quickly ran
Covers: the letter was rather large, thin, very striking, elegant
and admirable clarity.

Almost three quarters of the book were written.

The judge devoted the most attention to the last pages, but after reading this, let hung his
head and:

- It is not clear - he said - not a confession ...

Meanwhile, the Commissioner continued his research in a small adjoining
room the dressing room, where another closet, the lavatory and chests
all over the place occupied available.

But even there he found no letter.

Then returned to the bedroom, through him, and entered the room: there the record was even shorter
or useless, because apart from the couch and chairs, only had a table full of small objects
of use, and then the piano, on which looked a notebook Pessard compositions. And the sheriff returned
on their own steps, when the sound of voices, cries of anguish he turned back, the police, obedient
to the orders they had received, preventing the entrance of a woman dressed in dark, head wearing
the black veil of the Lombard Village People.

- Ah, sir! Ah, sir !...-- exclaimed the woman, clasping her hands, skinny face, furrowed by hot tears
.-- I see it! ... Seeing it again! ... My employer ... my good mistress!

Ah, sir, to see it! ...

It was Julia, who at that time returning from the city.

Short and thin, somewhat advanced in years, seemed overwhelmed by anxiety.

- Let her go - ordered the judge, whom the Baroness explained that the Countess's maid for many years,
this woman had enjoyed his confidence.

And when he came, sobbing and tearful, hands together, and advanced to the corpse, nervous shudder
before it turned to move the body of the Prince on his face re-read that fainting with terror,
that awful pain, as if the view a person facing death, his presence there, did intensify their
torment. No looked at the corpse, but the weeping woman, and seemed to approach, together
with her to join the pains of the two to talk about death, to hear her talk it. All men of
justice, doctors, even to the Baroness were impressed anxious for that unfortunate attitude:
only foreign motionless and rigid, impassive and almost without looking at anyone.

- She said and done! ... He has done what he said !...-- women wailed beside the body .-- wanted death,
called ... Ah, poor thing! ... Ah, gentlemen ... And I sent out, sent me ... to be free ...
Not to read it in the face! Ah, if I had been with her! ... Many times, poor thing, how many times
prayed to God to make her die! ... And they have killed repeated !...-- even more distressed voice, as if until
that time has been doubt and wait, and suddenly undoubtedly received confirmation of such misfortune.
Have been killed! ... She's dead! Lord! Lord ...

Baroness ran a hand across his eyes, sighed and pulled her to his chest to the maid.

- Enough, enough, poor woman ... There is no choice but to comply! ... Calm down you !.... Basta!
... It is best that you tell these gentlemen, justice, where are
the commanded you?

What sent her?

- In the city, to pay some bills ... to buy things ... I do not know
anymore ... It seemed, when got out of bed, as if to go with me ...
then changed his mind and sent me ...

- Given to you a letter?

Do you know if he wrote a letter last night or this morning?

- Last
night, no: this morning.

This morning I wrote a letter.

- Who was targeted?

- A Sister Anne

-
Who is Sister Ann? - Asked the judge, who had left the verbose lady
patiently make the interrogation.

- Sister Anne Brighton, his former
English teacher.

- Where?

- Do not know.

In the envelope was the name of the place, a foreign name.

- Do
you not know that address? - Asked the judge, turning to Prince Alexis.

-
The know, but ...

His anxiety seemed to be calming down.

I was about to say something, when he heard in the background room to the police officers who prevented
anyone from entering.

But this time the unexpected person never complained, not crying,
vibrant voice, irritated and almost imperative, said:

- Let me go!

... I need to go, I say!

...

While the commissioner would see who he was, and Baroness Bérard approached
Borne at the door.

- Candle plant! - Baroness cried when she saw
a tall, burly, black hair and mustache blonde, who decided to force
the slogan, came in a hurry when the guards, a sign of his superior,
is pushed aside.

But after making his attempt and move quickly the first steps, the newcomer seemed suddenly
hesitated, uncertain: the irritation he lit his face was giving way to confusion and distress. When
you reach the threshold and see the body was hand over his heart,
leaned against the doorframe, intense pale, almost about to faint.

-
Our poor friend! - Baroness cried again, holding out his right hand
as if to to comfort, inspire courage .-- Who would have thought!

... Does not seem like a dream? ... Poor poor friend!

... And kill ...

But the young man said, advancing one step in a loud voice said:

- No.

A movement of concern and shock went through the present.

- What do you say? - Asked the judge, approaching candle plant and
staring eyes.

- I say that this lady was not killed.

I say that has been murdered.

His voice echoed strangely, seemed to speak in a vacuum, so ice was
silence that reigned around him, so bewildered and tempers were surprised
of all present.

Prince Alexis, erect, motionless, high forehead, looked also stared
at his unexpected accuser.

- How can you sure? - Even the judge asked.

-
I know.

- What evidence do you have?

- No test material.

All moral certainties.

- Who do you think is dead?

The young man extended his arm, pointed his index and foreign Prince,
and said:

All present turned their astonished gaze toward the defendants.

At

first the Prince's face remained expressionless Zakunine had, it seemed that he had not heard
or had not understood, but little by little, a bitter and ironic contraction of the lips,
a shrug of the eyebrows over his eyes suddenly sunk almost smiling, animated by an almost painful
laugh, showed a sense of amazement, disbelief and in a sense of fun,
so unexpected by awakened in his mind.

As the unknown, still with his arms folded across his chest, looking
at the accuser, without the statue's face and awakening from stupor.

Before you say anything against anyone - the judge said in a tone
of warning - it must be some of what is said.

- If it were true would
not have spoken.

- What interest can be armed arm these people?

The young man began to speak with a violence that vainly tried to
hold.

- The evil of the soul of each other, the savage pleasure to
do evil, to destroy a life, bloodshed.

The pleasure of ending with the death of the long martyrdom inflicted to that unhappy.

Her voice trembled, his hands were trembling too, his eyes were fraught with tears.