 But it occurred very frequently these wrecks by foresight or boldness, without any news
of them stay ... If the sea could tell all dramas ignored the discovery!

Dr. Zurita nodded gravely. Much had cost Spain its large overseas companies. Perhaps this came from
its decline.

- That's right - said Ojeda -. Some attribute this decline to the European wars, but the nations
that fought with us experienced the same loss, why not waned ... Others blame the excessive
religiosity that got us into absurd business. Maybe may be true, but in part no more. Then there
was so fanatical nations like ours, and yet were not in danger of death ... The main cause of
our decadence, or rather, our anemia, to be found in the colonization of the Indies. Body heals from
injuries received, so tremendous they are. The danger, the mortal, is a bleeding lasting for years,
lasting centuries inatajable flow escaping the life ...

Fernando described the old Spain and one of those mothers who go too prolific on his legs a
little hesitant, among their children, big men, strong, smiling with health trust. They suffer
all the diseases and have no: his only ailment is some weakness, anemia, lack of a life that has
been dividing and wasting generously.

Each child has a shred of their existence.

- And you go figure - continued Ojeda - what it represents for Spain giving birth by two dozen
puppies that are across the sea to live on their own, some developed
and cultivated, some impulsive and Rangers, but all of his blood and
his name and the illusions of youth.

Maltrana nodded at those words, but adding his own opinion. The evil of Spain had was not to
rest until old age.

- Our country is for its history something like a boiling pot centuries without that no one
apart from the fire to cool its contents. The great nations of Europe, after boiling flux during
which blended their races and their antagonisms are erased, could rest in peace. This rest
has served to solidify, aggrandize and acquire new strengths. Spain no, Spain knew no rest. For
seven centuries boiling bubbling with the struggles of racial and religious antagonisms. At last check
of However the merger of the various ingredients.

Already made the national mix, as rather badly, but it is made. We must remove the vessel from fire
to crystallize content and is more than liquid and vapors.

But at this critical moment, Spain, discovered the Indies and was monarchical alliances owns
half of Europe. And instead of resting, boil again with a major fire, swelled with a bubbling crazy,
absurd, the most extraordinary, daring and insolent that records the History. A relatively
small nation, badly placed at one end of the old world, and also
sought to unite to expel the Spanish Jews and Muslims differently
because religion, undertook the same time the company to colonize
half the globe and keep under distant authority European nations were
not in their language or race.

And the fluid, swollen by the fire, took great proportions, seeming much more larger than it
really was, spread in waves outside the vessel to be lost without useless, until they finally
turn off the fire. And when the pot rested at last cooling, had only minor debris inside. Maybe
he had escaped vapors glorious and was scattered throughout the world
in patches, in small lumps, without forming a dough.

- Oh, if we
had rested in time as other people! - Said Maltrana -.

If there after a century or two between the national constitution and our great company! ...
But leg stretch beyond the sheet, which was short. Never has there been a waste living and
glorious energies and useless.

Dr. Zurita protested the latter.

- Useless no. In regard to companies in Europe, undoubtedly ... But is the America, all Spanish-speaking
republics, and that beyond their constitutional differences national
are the same for his soul and customs.

Ojeda nodded. The crazy waste of Spanish power had only been breeding
in the Indies.

Traveling in various republics of the New World in his time as a diplomat, had appreciated
the historic grandeur of Spain better than reading books apologetic.

In a cold-weather American country where they grew in Europe as well as pine and fir and the
mountains were topped with snow, came to meet the traveler the Castilian language, and with it
the old colonial houses shields the gate and chanted solemn lords ways similar to the old gentlemen.
Even the president was wearing a name and sound stale, like that of the gallants of swashbuckling
comedy of Calderon. Then, jump to another country with coconut palms and tangled forest, with rivers
and seas, plains infernal burning, smoldering volcanoes and lakes top suspended between neighboring
ridges the clouds found again dressed in white, with straw hat in hand, the same polite and
ceremonious gentleman, the lady standing short Andalusian eyes, discreet, playful and devoted
to Lope as a stuffy, the old colonial convent towers encaperuzadas of tiles that tell the ringing
of the hours in the evenings or nights burning moon on streets of bars impregnated with perfume
bellied orange and jasmine.

And another president he received in audience, displaying a name of old stock, and was identical
to others in gentlemanly demeanor and his exploits willed and courageous leader.

From the borders of Texas to the ice of Magellan, Spain lived and live for ages the doctor judgmental,
transatlantic, a descendant of Salamanca and Alcala, in the gracious lady and devotion that
mimics the latest news from the sleek exterior, but saved the soul
of his grandmothers in the adventurous leader renews the other side
of the medieval romances Ocean of the Peninsula, in the overwhelming
admiration for the courage and audacity to feel the most enlightened,
placing the courage above all human virtues.

Continental cataclysm could sink the Iberian Peninsula under water, and if this disappeared
with nation of Spain, why not going to die people of Spain, the word Spain, the Spanish soul. Across
the sea in the Atlantic and Pacific, or docked on the slopes de los Andes condors' nests, there were
thousands of cities unified by language, customs and peculiar concept of honor. Eighty million people
speak the Castilian and thought of him.

Catholicism, a strong and dominant in American nations, weak and compromising in others, was also a
traditional force that kept alive the past, common to them all.

The Europeans learned Spanish to communicate with the young people of America. The Castilian
was the third world language with its distribution in the New World.

Reborn in Spain greenery and beauty of their daughters.

- And this
is something - said Ojeda -.

Our other crazy waste of time is not lost at all because of America.

His friends nodded. No, not lost.

- Only a country like the Peninsula - continued Ojeda - African climate and at the same time freezing
cold plateaus, could give a race prepared for the colonization of a world so large and diverse.
So it is understandable that only a very men arrived to found cities which are more than two thousand
feet, where breathing is difficult, and cities at sea level under the Ecuador, in an atmosphere
of hell.

Only people and living sober Spanish hard as he could undertake the business of populating
a world where people were still more sober and had little to eat
or not had absolutely nothing.

The danger for the conqueror Arrow was not Indian, are loneliness and vast distances, and above
all, was hunger.

Zurita intervened, with the precipitation of you heard about something she knows better than
their partners.

- That much I can say. I've settled, you know, friend? ... I have lived in the desert and there
I knew what had been the former Spanish and how much we owe ... We we have wronged them. We educate
bad patriotism inculcated us lies from childhood. When I went to school were now more alive
than the hatred of the struggle for Independence, and that he had spent more than half a century.
Spain was a cruel stepmother Spanish and a "Galician" Gross, who had only managed to enslave and exploit
... And this was taught in Spanish, and also the teacher and students wore all Spanish surnames.
We talked about the "Galician" like a barbaric people who had conquered our country when it
was formed and in full civilization, delaying progress, which we
had gloriously expelled after three centuries of tyranny ... Man continued
in the same ignorance.

Those who are born in a city already made do not ask how it formed
and who laid her foundations.

When we want out of it, is to go Raging Europe and emulation seeing that there are things better
than ours. Never look back or we care about our origins.

The doctor paused, as if he molested a bad memory.

- I myself - he said - I feel some remorse at the thought of my grandfather. Poor lord! When
a boy got angry with him, called him "Galician" and recalled the
great deeds of Independence who had served as my ideas for the country
to kick a band of foreign operators ... Traveling through the interior
of my land, I saw clearly, I realized the suffering and works of men
who were spreading across the desert of civilization time.

Only those who live in cities and do not take the field (the field that have not yet uncultured
know the hand of man) can talk with contempt of our remote ancestors.

The doctor recalled his early life, when he had recently colonized virgin lands abandoned by the
Indian.

- I had to suffer all kinds of deprivation: even went hungry many times. And that was near
the railroad, and rivers could be traced in steamships instead of going to paddle and the liner
I had in less than a month orders for Europe ... Then I realized what did the Spanish first,
with no other means of communication that the herd or the cart, having to take six to eight
months to go the distance to save the day railroad in two or three days. When they wanted to
trace the Paraná, going from Buenos Aires Assumption rowing and sailing by the revolts of the
river, this trip cost them three times time to go to Spain. Ships of the Peninsula came very
infrequently, if not wrecked. And despite many obstacles, our ancestors founded the nuclei of
the cities we now have, created the first herds, adapted to our soil Old World products, they
prepared everything for the Europeans who arrived after not starve
... The Spanish put the table in America, built and put seats bread.

This is an image that comes to mind. Then, other people have brought more advanced refined sauces
of civilization, beautiful table decorations, but not the first, prepared as necessary, there would
be no banquet.

- That's right - said Maltrana -.

But the life that occurs in the precise and never becomes vulgar the fame of which makes it superfluous
and enjoyable. Nobody knows who invented the bread and who wove the first web. No people have
been lifted statues. And you believe that inventors bread, cloth and cooking food were larger
and worthy of glory perpetrators of all the machines of our time.

- In the formation of the American countries - insisted Zurita - what happens in large buildings
which are now built.

Very few see the inside of steel scaffolding, no one wants to know the name of those who worked
on the deep foundations. The admiration is all for ornaments and "doodles" of the facade ... And
who settled our foundation and raised the sound of our palace, was
Spain.

The other villages have come much later, when for the decorations and balconies, to provide the
comfortable and cute. Most hard, thankless job masonry and dangerous, he did "old."

- And the more you want to raise your building - said Ojeda - the more grand and solemn I wish,
more will come down in search of the foundations to strengthen them, on pain of coming below.

-
Must have lived in the desert - continued the doctor - to realize what they brought with them
the conquerors and the services rendered to civilization. I suffered a lot to create my stay, and
yet, I thought, 'This horse brings me back and forth They brought the Spanish. Before coming
they did not exist. These cows and sheep these I can kill and eat brought them too. Biscuit in
my mouth I come from they sowed wheat first. " And I could not move in my poverty without finding
that the few comforts that surrounded me was the daring of the Spanish who came forward and
killed in the desert so that one day I could go at my time. And I wondered: "But what had
here before they arrived? What people ate ?...».

The people were poor, and to eat only had corn, cassava and guanaco
meat.

This from what I've seen in my country. They say that in Peru and Mexico had more resources,
because people was larger.

So should be, but I fear that there is much exaggerated stories of men of letters, fairy tales
... what you call "literature."

Ojeda, listening thoughtfully, spoke in turn.

- And you have to think, doctor, in efforts to bring the New World would cost each these products
for acclimatization in small vessels, crowded with people.

Crew and soldiers slept on the tables. The captains and characters had by all comfort a mat
rolled in poop. Provisions were salty or vinegary, to resist changes in temperature. The great calm
of the ocean were scarce with its long immobility water supply.

Many sold one by one the pieces of clothing in exchange a few glasses
of earthy and superheated liquid, and arrived naked at the end of
the trip.

And in the midst of this raging thirst, he must economize liquid to give drink to the horse
procreative bull, the cow's belly, the potted orange tree, the olive campus to all the new
animals and plants that had been there as a treasure, estimated at more than lives of men ... And
like so many troubles were not enough, had to fight their way gunfire
from enemy ships, English, Dutch or French, which, according to variations
Spanish politics, met them to prevent their travel.

- Spain - ended
Ojeda - gave America everything he had, good and bad.

- And no more
because he had no - said Zurita -.

The other countries I do not believe that they had more to give at that time ... But we, legitimate
descendants of the Spanish we have inherited from them the evil tongue, the tendency to speak
against Spain and make it accountable everything.

- Here we have the friend Perez - Maltrana laughed, that handsome color uploaded admires England
even in dreams. That responsibility to the motherland of all of America: drying or excessive
rains, the laziness of the Indians, to the scarcity of railways.

-
Bad heritage language, it is true - said Ojeda -.

Proud Spanish individualism, believed to be disappointed by his country and spoke against
him at all hours, convinced that at birth in another land would have been much larger.

- An injustice - says Zurita - is also so much about the cruelty of the Spanish with Indian.
How to civilize a land without people sweeping before the occupation if they object to this
civilization? ... In the former Spanish America, the most advanced
peoples are now those with less Indian.

In the United States are so few, trained in circus as a curiosity. In my country only on the
borders of North and fewer and fewer. Chile no longer bears more than a taste of the old Arauca.

- It's funny - Maltrana said smiling again -. Almost all the American republics in his hatred of Spain,
have sung the primitive Indian, who stood up to the conquerors, painting as a hero possessor
of all virtues. But many of these republics, after independence, have dedicated themselves
to kill the Indian, to suppress it with a cooler and reasoned cruelty that of the viceroys and
governors, to organize the methodical destruction and the distribution
of children, that there was not seed ... Grandchildren of Galicia
and the Basques have sung Attempts Indian rebellion against the mother,
seeing in them the first wailing Independence, when there were more
than race riots, revolts color