 At last he distinguished himself as a black dot there among the waves came
alongside the vessel, a man in a beret climbed quickly to the draft, and then the bridge,
and said with an accent Vizcaino

- Afternoon, D. Isidoro and the company.

They reached the mouth, which was very narrow. The practical, without losing sight of the bow of
the steam spoke cheerfully of the pilgrimage he had just left there on the top of the village.
Entered by a narrow river, between two high mountains, and soon lead to the bay, which in fact,
did not deserve such a name: it was a sort of lake, not very large, surrounded by all sides by
high mountains and the sea where communication went unnoticed, not to look far. When they entered
the twilight era. In the bay, the effect of abrupt cord surrounds it, was already low light,
the sun had long had sunk behind the mountains, and in the sky could
be seen beyond the semicircle of the moon, thin, blue and spiky, the
Hesperus winking at his side before hiding.

The village is spread across both of sides attached to the mountain, and their houses were washed
by the sea, to which residents could exit the stone stairs. Many had also a small terrace or garden
where snacking or chatted quietly taking the air, or danced and laughed, depending on the mood and
occasion. Miguel learned from the pilot that the people was divided into two parishes, the right
part is called San Pedro, left San Juan.

Front, much further away, was a group of newly built houses and stores, known of flights width or
width only.

The steamer anchored in the middle of the bay until the next day. Miguel was surprised and love
of that silent and melancholy retreat into the shadows took appearances twilight even more sad and
fantastic. The imagination began to speak a language soft and mysterious. Looked at the houses
where light is still not perceived at all, and asked: - Are the living there, away from noise,
enclosed by the natural wall, will be happier than those who live thunderous agitation in
court? Who knows! Fixed on a young couple leaning the railing of a roof and could not help envying.
Back in Madrid do not love, of sure, like this: we are requested by many wishes at once, that
the heart can not collected and live in happy contemplation of being that is worshiped. At that time
he did not remember for any of Lucia. His spirit, struck first by the sublime presence of the ocean,
and now for the sweet poetry of that lake, taking off with the tedium
of twisted and artificial life I had just left, its lie and sinful
pleasures, and joined with love the feeling of this quiet little town
that he retired and picturesque inspired.

Came to him from his meditation master, who invited him to have a
glass of gin Camera: Miguel said he wanted to jump ashore and find
lodging.

- Lose V. care, now going to be Ursula.

- Who is Ursula?

-
The juggler: she was taken ashore and the search.

And indeed, he soon came to the vapor side of a boat, and within it a young who handled the
oars with unusual skill. In Tickets, the service of the skiffs that carry people from one point to another
of the bay is in charge of women.

- Afternoon, D. Isidoro and the company.

- That I give this gentleman, Ursula.

Beware what you do with it.

(Here the captain said a great outrage, that can not be repeated.)

Ursula smiled shocked.

- There he, D. Isidoro, let him!

Jumped in the boat our young, and was driven rapidly to the shore. Ursula was a shepherdess
chunky, poorly dressed and with colors so vivid in his face, which surprised Miguel: later found
that heavy drinking liquor. He tied the boat and led to his passenger by a rough stone stairs
to the street. This was quite narrow and crooked, as Sunday, I kept having some animation in
it, the neighbors were sitting outside talking, or playing the lottery shops. Feeling the steps
of the stranger, rose face and examined him with curiosity, which
trumpeted the numbers also suspended its singing for a moment to look
at him.

In the taverns, which were not few, you could hear a lot of uproar.
It was almost night.

Ursula was through that guides the long and winding road, which was
the only one of the parish of San Pedro, a small square in the center
of a group dancing girls.

The boatman stopped in front of an old house with a shield on the door and he leaned against
the window of the shop where he had tobacconist.

He said a few words in Basque, and a woman who had leaned in to see
Michael.

- No problem - replied .-- Castilian coming for a long time
that gentleman?

- I can not say to you, Mr - said that raw .-- Probably
the whole month.

- I can offer to V. the room for now, but if a family
comes, hopefully within few days, will V. to move to the upstairs
room, which is smaller.

- I do not care: having a decent room, good
enough for me.

The woman with whom he spoke was about forty years old, was tall, stout, and although quite dejection,
his face still had signs of superior beauty. Dressed a black merino dress modest, as most
women who pass through the villages boys. Arose at this, went to the site and invited the youth
to come up with it. Miguel, Before doing so, he dismissed the boatmen,
charging that he sent the baggage.

The room where he entered was spacious, the furniture, though not wealthy, they seemed decent.

-
This is your room, now - said Dona Rosalia (such was the hostess)
.-- This is the bedroom.

Want V. bring you light?

- Until you come I do not need luggage.

- Well, excuse me V., I have abandoned the tobacconist.

And the midwife left the room leaving him alone. After he had given some laps enterádose it and
their willingness to the dim light that was there, lit a cigar, and went out the corridor and
fell face down on the iron railing, contemplating, with eyes distracted, the square dance. The
youth group danced with increasing enthusiasm and sang louder and louder. Most of them were
cool and strong but beautiful but some deserve the name of such. The movements were alive, loose,
funny: the most liked Miguel was a paste consisting of arms and turning the body to dance, jump
to the letter. Around them were many onlookers, men and women.

Group noted that they said a girl and came to sit alone under corridor
where he was, glanced at it, but can not see her face, environment
eyes again to dance.

After a while a voice vaguely perceived behind it:

- Listen - said
the voice.

But do not imagine their way to him, continued in a comfortable position.

-
Listen - repeated the voice a little stronger.

- Hey, who's going?
- Then said, turning.

In the shadows of the room could see the figure of the girl I was
before sitting under corridor.

Could have fifteen years of age, and so failed to see, had a face
round and brown, quite insignificant, and spent the braid hair yet.

-
My aunt says that if you want V. dinner - the girl said, her voice
trembling.

- If it were possible ... I have some appetite .-- And
as I wished to speak, he added, smiling kindness:

- Do not dance
V. with the other girls?

I've seen V. very alone down there in the corridor.

- Never dance - all confusing the girl replied, as if any serious misconduct against him.

- Do not know V?

- Yes, sir, I know, but ...

- Come on, do not like.

-
Before you loved me, now, not so much.

All this was said increasingly shortened, without dropping from the
lips an innocent smile and humble, that pleased Michael.

It was all I could please him: the face, without being ugly, nothing I had that could draw
attention, moreover, did not see it clearly, because of the dark that the room was.

When he said the last words, she hastily retreated.

Miguel's asked disappear:

- What is your name?

- Maxi - answered without turning his head.

Brought him shortly after dinner, the maid was an old ugly and sour, to turn limitose a lamp,
setting the table, and on it the dishes, without a word. But soon Dona Rosalia time again to
give talk, and throw it without his tongue, soltola so well that blessed lady, that before the end of
dinner and Miguel knew everything about your life.

Mrs. Rosalie was married to a former sea captain, retired early because of the trade rheumatism not
allow him to navigate. He had done some quarters, few, with their revenue, thus giving the tobacconist
and what some guests left for the summer, lived modestly, but no cheating. He had six children:
the eldest, who had nineteen years, was employed in a shop in San Sebastian, the second pilot
studying for Bilbao, the third, Adolfo, I had at home, a piece of wood that served only to give
trouble, came after two girls aged eight and ten years, and finally,
a child of five who was, by all signs, the idol of his eyes.

- And
that girl who came to ask if I wanted dinner, who?

- Ah, Maxi, poor
thing!

It's my niece, the daughter of a brother of Valentine, my husband.

Not met his mother, his father was captain of the Duero, a steam V. perhaps you've seen. That steam,
going to Manila three years ago, ran aground. My brother, regardless of whether the ship could
leave or not, he hurried to his cabin, shut himself up in it and shot himself.

- What an atrocity!

- He was so delicate, that the thought that he
could throw the blame, he amassed the trial and committed this madness.

The boat lightened the ship as a little left, because he says Valentine, the bass was Sandy, the
Bonifacio was poor which was there under the water. Maximina, of course, does not know what
the shot, believes his father died in Manila of disease. As she was alone with no father or
mother, we picked her up from school where he was, and have brought to home. What do we do? We have
many children, and is a sacrifice that we impose keeping, dressing and shoes, but something
has to do for God, truth, D. Miguel? Not bad, no sir, and you know how much to thank your guys
what they do for her ... But the poor is basically useless. It's quiet, suffering, gives no bad answer
...

- What age?

- Fifteen years is to sixteen.

- Soon to be married then.

- Oh,
God! - Dona Rosalia said with deep pity .-- I think are green, not
today beautiful girls are married have no money, how she has to marry
to be rich or pretty?

- I can not find it ugly.

- Oh, God!

Poor thing! And understands that he must think about those things. Lately it has got a lot to
the church. Confess and receive Communion every week, and hear Mass whenever she can. I let
her missing until the obligations of home, which like V. know, come
first.

I recently wrote to his uncle (because word would not dare) saying
he wanted to become a nun.

But to be a nun, D. Miguel, you need a dowry, and we can not give. Valentine was determined
to let them out of pocket, but I am opposed. When things can not, have to resign. The same gains
the sky inside than outside the convent. The poor thing I felt very much!

Gave a bad feeling so sorry for Michael. Tired of listening to his hostess, got up and under
the pretext of arranging the room, went to the bedroom. Doña Rosalia after left him alone.

That night was not easy to see the general.

His house was across the bay such time as hard-pressed to find her. Moreover, Lucia wanted
his visits were secret forever: it was necessary to know how I wanted
that done.

Determined, then wait until the next day.

It was too early to go to bed. He took his hat and cane to walk around the people. Upon leaving,
was still dancing in the square: Maxi was again sitting in the chair
looking at it.

- Good night, Maxi - said our youth approaching her.

-
Ay! Good night.

- Still to be decided V. to dance?

- No, sir.

-
Well, I did.

The girl looked surprised.

- But I want a rest next to V. Is there a chair out there?

- I'll
get it now - said very embarrassed.

And entering the tobacconist, left with one that placed well away
from yours.

Miguel, great disengage, put them close together.

As they sat down, started dancing girls to lead them stares.

The night was starry and clear or obscure.

Into conversation, talking about the dance, the time from his trip, sold out in an instant all
public areas. Maximina smiled kindly to what he said, but just answer
only in monosyllables, but she was unaware that efforts be made more
explicit.

At last dared to say:

- Do not dance V.?

- If V I had fun so far and would be within the circle - said getting
seriously.

- Yo! - Said the girl calmly.

- Yes, you .-- Miguel released
to say it Do not laugh .-- V. case: I never dreamed of dancing; but
less now that I am in such good company.

The girl was so frightened yet, he did not know thank you.

Guessing concern our young, dispensed with the usual jokes and began to treat him with more respect.
Enterose gently on the details of his life and was slowly gaining
confidence, making it speak more disengage.

But the ball was crushed. Some young people left for their homes, others, and with them some
leading men, came to sit in front of the tobacconist, for which they
Dona Rosalia consented to get more chairs and a long bench.

Miguel sat next to Maxi.

- Remove V. guitar, Dona Rosalia - said one of the girls.

- Will you sing Johnny?

Juanito was the pilot of steam where our young man had arrived. It was well-known Andalusian
in Pasajes.

As came the guitar, began to brighten up the conversation with T-shirts, polo shirts and flamenco
dancers. Miguel, to the surprise of beautiful girls that were there, leaning back in the chair,
began to speak to the ear Maximina. What do you say? Nothing, nonsense: it was going very nicely,
it was a very nice girl, she was glad to have come to stop his house,
etc. Maximina, more surprised than confusing, listened with a smile
that music so new to it (Michael, not the pilot).

Our youth spent time in the best I could, waiting for time to go
to bed.

- Why not feel V. Paulina next? - asked the girl.

- Who
is Paul?

- That girl so beautiful that it is near the door.

Miguel was inclined to view it.

- Do not look good, looks nice, in
fact - said leaning back again .-- But V. also is ... and very nice
too.

- Oh, God - the girl said, blushing.

- Go it is! - Miguel said,
laying his hand on hers and gave her an affectionate squeeze.

The girl did not move: both silent for a moment.

- Are we going to
play around with the clothes? - Said one of the young so that Johnny
had finished his repertoire.

Started the game with items. They lit a match, it was giving each other through certain words that
had to be spoken aloud, paying garment conclude that in whose hands
or go out.

Our young took little interest in the game. When the match came to him quite fallen, dropped it without
giving it to Maxi, and paid garment.

- Why has not given me? - It asked.

- Because we wanted to V. blows.

He got saloon owners of the garments, they were commanded to say yes three times and three times no,
they were made to please the audience, etc., etc. Miguel, while these operations lasted, kept deposit
from time to time some little words in the ear of Maxi. With boldness courtier's run came to
seize one of his hands and hold it in hers. Was surprised to see that she did not retreat.
She was a virgin hand, solid and cold one if not great, but perfectly machined, made him remember
the overall, long and gritty and always burning. Timidly pressed first, then more power: After
lovingly caressed her, touching her gently on top. Maximina let him do withdraw without dreaming,
like a natural thing. Not expressed even more excitement or concerns before, just took it off when
I went to use it in the game. What will this be? Miguel asked all confused. Will this girl and
such malice? Is it pure innocence? While hinting experience first, an inner voice told him otherwise;
and following it, was satisfied with tender caress and nobly so that hand gave him candidly. The
gathering broke up at last, and our young man was puzzled and thoughtful to bed, intending
to follow closely in the days Maximina.

XII

The first thing the next day morning was a message to Lucia.

"I have been here yesterday afternoon. Tell me how I get ready to see you. "He left home and
went in search of Ursula the boatmen.

So he asked her.

- Do you know the lady of General Bembo?

- Go!

- Then you will take
this letter now.

Wait reply and come away. In the I wait for spring.

Boatman took the oars, crossed the bay, tied the boat and disappeared there between trees. While
tornado with the answer, our young man was on a visit to Captain steam and the pilot of the peteneras.

Ursula
was not long in appearing again in a hurry paddling: Miguel standing
in the road so set foot on their land and received a ticket scented
hands had gotten into the breast.

So the bill said:

"Dear me: A sweet and mysterious concern last night my heart felt announced no doubt you were
near me. We can not see us as before, because Carmen has been in Madrid and I have no confidence
in the servants. It states that your letters be secret. The girl that carries it is faithful and
quiet: you can bring in your boat at ten in the evening. Entering it should light a match,
when you are in the middle of the bay another, and another at last ground when you jump on
this side. Each of these matches will answer me with same signal from the viewpoint of home.
We will meet with the garden wall.

Prudence and discretion.

Do not miss.

Yours until death,

ALFREDO.

"

In reading the letter could not help smiling, saying to herself: -
When you end this woman's adventures mania! - Concertose after the
boatman for dispatch night and said goodbye to her very quietly recommending.

When he came back into the room found it to Maxi, who was finishing fix it, and his cousin Adolf,
a thirteen to fourteen years with big cheeks, short and spiky hair and eyes full of meat, wild
and shameless. For some words failed to see from the hallway knew he had brawl between the two
cousins and guessed the cause. Adolfo was browsing through the guest's luggage and Maximina
opposed it.

When our young man entered, both were surprised, amid Maximina room with a broom in hand smiling,
leaning on a comfortable Adolfo staring grimly.

- Oh, what a worker
is Maximina! - Miguel said approaching her without regard to any Adolfo,
who had been unfriendly.

In the light of day might appreciate its shape. It was a dark pink paler than the small nose,
fresh mouth, head and forehead well shaped, brown hair and hazel eyes, neither large nor small,
lower than high, and big meat Apretadita of ways, revealing their great strength into muscle
movements. No one could call beautiful this girl with justice, and yet humble and innocent expression
of his eyes, constant smile twitched her lips, made her highly sympathetic. Her dress clear calico
with a pink scarf that covered his chest and part of the back.

On hearing the cry of Miguel, he answered with another:

- A lot,
yes!

- You bet.

So early, and already I have V. arranged the room.

- Toma, because he has sent my mother! - Adolfo said from a corner,
with a desire to mortify her cousin, but she replied quite naturally:

-
It's true, I has sent my aunt in V. left.

- And you do so prontito
what they send you like her? - Miguel said turning to the boy .--
So and you will be wise, for sure your parents send you study every
day.

Adolfo gave him a suspicious look and dropped his eyes without answering.

- I took a spin around the village - followed Maximina addressing the young - and then I Juanito
on steam.

- The town is ugly - it .-- That answered all outsiders say ...

-
And V. not say so?

- To me is like a town than another.

- Is not
gonna V. occasionally to San Sebastian?

- Almost never.

My aunt takes me when to bring some order, but round by round.

A Once I took my father (God rest his soul) to Bilbao to spend a
few days ... If I knew V. what he wants to come back!

- What then?

-
I was tired of walking from one place to another ... the theater ...
to walk ... to shops ... I was very sore feet.

They said it was because I was not used.

- She said her aunt who has been V. educated in a school ...

- Yes,
sir, two years in a convent Vergara ...

- And he liked to V. be there?

-
Very.

I've never been as happy as ever.

- So you would willingly V. with
the nuns?

- Oh, indeed!

- She wants to return and become a nun ...
but lacks mortis - said his cousin animal raw back into the conversation.

Gross

output very indignant that Michael, who led the little boy a look of contempt. Maxi had gone slightly
red.

- Do not believe V. .. Yes, I would return, but causing no harm to
anyone.

I understand that now, while girls are not old, my aunt needs me
...

- What is unusual in that V. I want? - Miguel said softly .--
That is not proof having V. a grateful heart and pious.

Maxi then blushed to the ears.

Adolfo, who certainly did not seem right that praise and wanted by all means vent his resentment,
he said, smiling stupidly

- It's a Beaton!

Spend their lives eating the saints.

- Well now was not eating the saints but sweeping - said Michel.

- It has been in the church communicant Thursday and Sunday and bring a rope attached to the body.
Want V. see?

And the great barbarian was entitled to his cousin, no doubt intending
to open the dress.

- Be still, Adolfo! - Said it, scared, nervous.

But Adolfo ignored and came to lay hands on it. Then the girl, with
a force surprised to Miguel, he refused to shake making.
