 His pride had been so nervous so excitable, that
the slightest shock to him as a deep stab sentíalo. His conscience constantly accused her of pride.
He maintained a struggle against itself cruel, and could not that singular calm irritability.

Fr
Gil sounded that day and thereafter (because Obdulia confessed often)
with deep true spirit of pious emotion, to which his struggle with
himself was even more interesting.

It was one of those souls who had only been described in mystical books. His ineffable sweetness
submission to receiving the advice and warnings, seduced him and was disturbed at the same time: worried
because he was very suspicious of himself, he feared could not understand the longings burning, the
lofty recesses of a being superior to all those who had hitherto known. He started strong focus on
the strange secrets of the young, their scruples, their joys and terrors, their visions, because
he was from time to time. Y and was not surprised that the other confessors had not understood.
Remembered what happened to Santa Teresa, which was proposed by example not to scorn by some
ridiculous trifles signals an alert conscience, nor considered as glare and optical illusions
which could very well be real favors from Heaven.

What most impressed with the piety of his new penitent was the desire to mortify. Was your body
without compassion, a delicate body as the stem of a flower.

Several times during night rose up to pray at dawn, in the wet and cold days of the year, leaving
home to go to church, where he spent several hours on his knees, fasted with a rigor that had
not seen in his ascetic master of the seminar, prolonged abstinence, terrible that seemed impossible
to resist; spent sackcloth in the legs and arms, and disciplined Fridays and the eves of feasts.
This detachment of the flesh, this hatred of the beast never felt the young priest. In vain
he had wanted to instill his spiritual director, for nothing had worked their entire lives to acquire
it. All was useless. Bodily penances ached, so terrified him that he had just started to adjourn.
Abused his spirit with great value, every aspiration stifled in him, I wish you all seem sinful,
humiliated him whenever he wanted, but feared the pain the most sensitive physical damsel: it
was accused confessor and hurt in their long and fervent prayers. So the harsh penance of
the young caused him admiration unlimited.

All admired more for what they lack. He never felt more humiliated or doubted both their virtue
and salvation. And they took as a warning from Heaven, it was proposed to try again this path
of perfection, which had traveled all who truly want to get closer
God.

Encouraged by the example of the pious maiden, began to abuse her flesh as she: each sample
ministered unto her confidences. It also wanted to fast rigorously, wanted also rise to the first
dream and spend an hour on the cross on his knees, he wanted to spend sackcloth wanted to discipline.
It was a terrible fight with her pure and quiet nature of man without passions, which therefore
does not feel the need to quiet them with whips.

His admiration for the virtuous maiden led him not only to take an example, but also counselor.
He was so humble and innocent heart that he was embarrassed having
to direct and reprimand in the background who considered superior.

Gradually began mutual confidence. The new priest, not having a spiritual director accommodated
Peñascosa their education mystical insensibly opened his chest and told the girl his joys,
their triumphs and their fainting on the road had been planned health. It was a spiritual friendship,
in that it was another matter that the service of God, who spent long periods talking softly of
the things of Heaven. Either missing or some little jokes in his talks innocent than rejoicing
for a brief moment.

- When you meet in heaven - he said smiling P. Gil, - very arrellanadita in seat allotted to him how
little will remember his poor confessor, who will suffer in purgatory!

-
Do not say that, father!

If you do not go straight to heaven, who has to go?

- Oh, no! - Responded with a sigh the priest .-- You have made me
a very concept wrong ... I am an unworthy sinner ... Give infinite
thanks to God if it takes me to purgatory but are there thousands
of years ...

And he said it with all my heart the virtuous priest.

Believed in good faith because he could not macerated, did not have
a solid basis, and rejoiced at the bottom of the soul to have stumbled
with a being who enjoyed this privilege.

AcuDial to mind often the example of P. Gracian, who both helped Santa Teresa on the path of
perfection with virtues and advice. Your crush asceticism led him to encourage rather than suppress
prudently his penitent.

Each mortification that it was inflicted and trembling and blushing came to relate in the confessional
was causing a deep joy, it seemed a triumph over sin and forging the illusion that it accounted
for a part of the victory.

Many and varied were the brave girl that got on the meat in space a few months. Just as corrupt
men exhaust their imagination in search of new pleasures, so she excelled in the invention of various
torments for her delicate body. Approval of his confessor, the words of praise that eluded him
despite his lips, no doubt warming fantasy and goad their impetus.

One day he spent twenty-four hours to take food, another threw ashes in his favorite dish, another
wore a wool shirt crude because of the meat, another disciplined to skip the blood, etc..

One afternoon he approached the confessional with the most radiant face, painted with intense joy in their
big black eyes and mysterious. Had just won a new victory over the enemy and longed to tell your
confessor. But this, rather than linger mystical colloquies as usual, and learn with affectionate
interest of their penances, their struggles with meat, complied severely
sins.

It was perhaps in a moment of melancholy or concentration of thought. Mantúvose a reserved
attitude, saying little, treating almost like a stranger. This book impressed the young. Hallab
it precisely in one of those moments of expansion, in which the chest is brimming with spiritual
joy. Thought to involve it in their righteous confessor. But lo and behold that it gives to
silence and confession short as possible. The young man stood up at last sad and unable to
repress a movement of despair. He took a few steps from the chapel, which was deserted. Suddenly,
can not overcome the desire to tell his confessor had been terrible penance out, comes back
to the confessional, not the window, but through the door.

- Father - said in a trembling voice, choked with emotion - I forgot to say tonight I did a penance
perhaps, excessive, it may be a sin.

The young priest looked up without fully understanding, expressing a dumb question.

- I burned with an iron.

The confessor remained silent, watching her distracted eyes.

- I
put the iron burn on the arm ...

The same silence.

Fr Gil, or was thinking about something else, or stupor had frozen.

No doubt the first thought Obdulia, she said with some vividness:

-
Yes, sir, I've done in the arm is burning ...

And at the same time
lifted the sleeve of the dress and laid bare an ugly and painful wound
I had in the forearm.

The priest went on as a poppy, and turning his head quickly, he replied
tartly looking at the tables of the confessional:

- Well, well ...
Let you ... It seems excessive, indeed ... Henceforth refrain from
do such penance without first talking to your confessor.

III

At eight o'clock in the evening after having dinner with D. Miguel
and have seen him retire to bed in the sweet company of flintlock
pistols, P. Gil left the rectory to toward the house of his protector
Ms Eloisa Montesinos.

Rarely went to the gathering that it met at night. Neither was happy about it, nor the severe
regime of the priest's house I consented. But her protector had complained of neglect, until
he thought he was cooler with it. Fearful of being branded as ungrateful and really sorry, because
he professed tender and respectful affection for the kind lady, resolviose to go more often,
making and submit to the pastor.

The strong shower water hit his face as he set foot outside the door. Opened the umbrella,
but a few steps, the wind was blowing gale in the Field of Fainting
it again.

Unable to close it and feeling violently pushed by the hurricane, the young excuses refuge
in black, huge portal of Montesinos. Never went past it without feeling a shiver of fear and curiosity.
Lived in that gloomy palace a mysterious man who had vaguely thousand strange stories, to whom were
attributed outrageous ideas and phrases in addition to religion and its ministers. The young cleric
just knew him. D. Alvaro Montesinos had spent most of his life in Madrid. For two or three years
only he had come to settle on rocks. He lived in an almost total withdrawal, occasional walking
rarely by the sea, all alone. The remaining days I spent locked up at home, it was said, reading
or writing articles wicked. The Peñascosa clergy spoke of him with contempt spiteful, which
had come to participate Fr Gil, without knowing.

Arranged his umbrella as best he could, and as the impetus the wind had calmed down instantly
went out of the portal, but not one look of fear and hostility to the huge black door the fund, on top
of which sadly burned an oil lamp behind a window gated.

He left the field of fainting and, once in Quadrant Street (which thus called the single largest and
most populated of rocks), and the wind was not blowing so hard and was able to take advantage
umbrella and get home of Ms. Eloisa, located in the square without seriously wet. The D. purple Martín
de las Casas was also old, but remarkably renovated more girl than her brother, with all facilities
and supplies required by the needs Modern: tiles portal gate, well carved poplar staircase with banisters
of patent, elegant rooms with friezes and papers, all very neat and Painted.

- Good eyes see you, father! How expensive is sold! - Ms. Eloisa said that since her protected had
received holy orders not tuteaba.

At the same time he rose and kissed his hand with real affection. So did Mrs. Rita Obdulia, who had
recently was assiduous gathering of the house, and Mrs. Marcelina
Serafina Barrado, despite the sidelong glance he directed his chaplain
D. Joaquín.

Ms Marciala and Mrs. Filomena became the distracted talking to D. Peregrin Casanova, and saluted
the order from his seat, smiling rosy.

While greetings lasted, D. Narciso, who was leaning back to the piano, no his eyes off his
companion, eyes where they read aversion and suspicion.

Without the P. Gil is the cause or even give good account of it, there was lively rivalry between
him and D. Narciso, who had started more than half of the daughters of confession. Well God
knew he had done nothing to get it, before, on the contrary, it weighed heavily each Once
one of them came to his confessional. But what he had to do? Nothing but confess, it was his obligation.
Insist that do not vary much as a confessor was granted too much importance to the issue of person:
he was not in the spirit of the sacrament. But the chaplain was not penetrated Sarrió the intention
of his partner, and whether was not much altered her feelings. Thus compatible with the result,
and it was sad him. Before the arrival of Gil field it can be said that only among the fair sex
of Peñascosa and ruled their consciences. Other chaplains did not shadow. It was the golden
boy of the pious. None of their jokes, their steps and gestures go unnoticed: the devout who had
the good fortune to hear or witness them, were responsible for distributing it quickly among her
friends. A damning evidence every moment of lively sympathy and veneration awakening in the village:
chasubles gifts of embroidery by fingers gorgeous body, the clerical collar of satin, etc.,
etc., offering even more positive, hams, bottles of sherry cakes and chocolate. D. Narciso was
admirably covered their spiritual needs and temporary. He was a shepherd, tending his sheep
happily, leading them gently the path of virtue to paradise and shearing from time to time the
rich fleece to not entangled in a thicket.

The appearance of your new companion came to breaking on the Arcadia delicious mystique. Sheep
sudden rush of insane excitement, began to jump and prance as if listen the happy sound of a pipe.
Neither Peter nor the blandishments managed to retain a most of them.

He was painting his flock, and he had had the strength to govern a herd that large, faint now to
be alone, sensing the hostility with which I watched some of their old and beloved sheep. For
not only no longer reached home the rich gifts overseas and nationals of other times, but
with deep felt pain that was beginning to discutírsele. It was said among the pious ladies,
and this came his ears, that if it was true that word was easier for the young toilets, most
of the time "there was no substance in what he said," and he preceded him much weight, natural
reason and instruction. There were times when throwing one of his jokes spicy, linked as always
with feces, barely produced laughter among listeners, and knew that one of them after he left,
he had been rude and poorly qualified educated. Of the body because there was no talking, well
it never reached could compete with the delicate and graceful figure of his opponent. In summary,
D. Narciso felt undermined the foundation and feared every moment to come to the floor. No wonder,
then, that the look and the greeting that welcomed the young priest were less affectionate
than be expected. Not remember little or much the kind reception that San Juan Bautista, master
held dear, and God made the young disciple who was soon eclipsed.

- Do not fights, women. Do you know, by chance, if it's easy to go out at night, with fear
that D. Miguel has to thieves? - Shouted D. Martín de las Casas from the triplet table where
he played with two others, a priest and a layman.

- No, sir, not that - "the cleric said, blushing under the eyes of the entire gathering.

- Did not have D. Miguel fear of robbers? - Asked smugly sharp focus
the Mr. de las Casas.

- Yes it is - the young man replied, smiling
sweetly, sitting at the same time next her godmother .-- Their reasons
will be.

The rich are those who fear. The poor, like me, are alone.

- But what will the priest as much money as they say? - Ms Marciala
asked curiously.

- I can not tell you, lady ... I presume so, because
it addresses a lot to his estate.

Their costs are small, and instead of increasing each day is restricted. Where to go long and
leaves little choice but to not have done plenty.

- The rights parish should produce a lot, right? - Asked even more
curious the wife of the apothecary of the square.

- You understand
that in a parish as large as it should not be short.

- But D. Miguel
forgive many of them - said the lady, with a slight turning comic
in his voice.

- It's possible, ma'am.

For my part, I have not seen - answered with perfect simplicity the toilet.

D. Narciso D. Joaquin, the chaplain of Madame de Barrado, exchanged
a meaningful glance.

The chaplain was a thin young man with roses in her cheeks, a sign
of a temper sickly, living and insolent eyes, thin nose, small mouth,
a hypocritical fold and malicious.

It had been a Dona Serafina testicles stuck at home to run errands and serve at the table, soon
after being widowed.

Noting the readiness and fond of him once transferred his residence
to Lancia, gave career, sending the seminar.

In the hours left him free lessons, Joaquín continued to play his
trade as a servant.

Then he took orders made him his manager, today was his feet and hands. Do not hit the streets
but in his company, was her spiritual director and counselor time. Curious spectacle indeed the
sudden transformation of a domestic master of his own love. It was you you always called him
D. Joachim and, publicly at least, he lavished a thousand samples respect, also forcing the
servants to tax.

Ms Eloisa reiterated, asking gentle accents:

- So what is the reason for his withdrawal, rogue?

- Madam, I understand that Mr Miguel does not like much to go out
at night, but the main This is because most of the days I am tired
... As I get up at four in the morning!

... Sometimes need a little prayer ...

- You work too, father - said Marcelina, a young unmarried girl who, in the words of the people,
already was nearing forty, ugly, leathery, very skillful hands and not a little also language
.-- So many hours of confessional! ... And then the sick!

...

- Not counting the hours he spends on his knees in prayer ...-- Obdulia
said shyly.

After to drop the phrase blushed.

D. Narciso thrust a unique look, ironic and aggressive, that she could not see, because it put
an effort into not looking face to face with his former confessor.

Fr Gil made an impatient, annoyed by those accolades, and to divert the conversation of his person,
he faced one of those who played the triplet.

- Mr Director, I have seen today from the rectory with the rod out
a very fat fish.

For Admittedly, I thought a mullet, and D. Miguel a robaliza. We played a little.

- The priest has a better view than you. A robaliza era - said the
gentleman seriously questioned, without looking up the charts.

This D. Romualdo Director was an old man with a mustache and short
white whiskers, sallow color, the brow furrowed with deep wrinkles,
large eyes, severe eyelid drooping.

No never smiled.

Constantly spoke with an accent in a bad mood, as a man disenchanted with everything.

- The Mullets do not fall into the spring, Don Gil of the green tights - uttered the lord of Houses
with his usual rudeness, if not rude.

I used to call it, jokingly, to his former protected.

- Yes down just, D. Martin of the White House - he uttered a dull voice director.

The pundits laughed, which piqued somewhat D. Martin, Male, as we know, prone irritated.

- I thought so, Minister of mischief - sarcastically replied, looking
intently at his face, and putting on the table at the same time a
king of hearts.

- So you thought very wrong - the old man replied,
his eyes always on the cards .-- Also did you think that king of hearts
would happen triumphant, y. .. you see, the bug!

- That'll make you
it is a rude and bad habits acquired back in Manchester.

Here the insurance Norberto father had not done.

- No, no! I am unable ...-- the priest said, choking with laughter,
coughing up .-- No burst Peñascosa I left ... What I do is shrink
and take that point of gold from my partner.

He put forward a four.

- Hooray for the cure! - Roared D. Martin, throwing the horse and picking the trick.

- Dude, I thought D. Martin did not have the horse - sighed D. Norberto, addressing Councillor eyes
in anguish.

- What did you think it is a babieca and has been all his life - he
said with affected naturally which shone through anger.

- But the
man of God !...-- said the cleric, ready to give explanations.

Counselor interrupted with angry gesture, firmly placing the cards face down on the table.

-
Man of the devil! I say ... How do you think of running a point not being covered? ...

Armos a violent dispute that lasted a few moments. The Advisor and P. Norberto no dragged on too
long, because he, a man of good pasta, phlegmatic, he concluded to remain silent shrugging
his shoulders with resignation and while shaking his head in silent protest. Those that were on
forever with D. Advisor Martin, both of which more irascible and stubborn.

D. Martín de las Casas, retired lieutenant colonel, who had made the war in Cuba, where had received
a wound in the shoulder that prevented him from continuing in service, is believed the case for
his profession, take it all for the tremendous. Since 1873 when it became the body of Invalids
did not come out of rocks. At that time had forty two years. His
wife was glad that forced retirement, but deplored that came to within
family with a cotton shoulder. Regarded as a virtue exalted, unique
to the military same energy in the field of battle that drinking coffee
in the casino. Their disputes, their bluffs in the recreation center
were proverbial in Peñascosa and slapping it used distributed at the
end of them too. Since the arrival of the tremendous Lt. Col. any
neighbor for serious and respectable as it was, was safe. Many nobles
and wealthy landowners of the village which until then had been kept
immaculate his cheeks, never dreamed that anyone could threatening
to them, were sealed and initialed the most neglected when the fingers
were the fierce invalid. This was due to a slow reflux among his friends
and acquaintances, which warmly received on his return from service