 And this lady, what is grace?

- My name is Benin.

- Toledo Are you by any chance?

- No, Madam, I am ... two leagues from Guadalajara.

- Onion I in the land of Talavera ... and tell me one thing: why is gorrinaza of Pedrilla Jai calls
you?

What is your name in your religion and your filthy earth, with forgiveness?

- Call me because being morito Jai him - said the tragic mimicking their speech.

- Mordechai my name - said the blind - and I be born in a mu puebro Bunite call Ullah beyond
the Bergel, terra of His ... Oh! terra divine Bunite ... mochas trees, oil mocha, honey, fror,
támaras, Güena mocha. "

The memory of her native country instilled a naive enthusiasm, and there was the painting and describe
with hyperbole funny, poetic and colorful with great entertainment and tasted joy the three
women. Prompted by them, had some passages of his life, all full of great cases, dangerous business
and fantastic adventures. First spoke of how he escaped parental home, age of fifteen, rushing
out into the world, without all the time elapsed since that event, had any news of his homeland
and family. Mandola its father home from a merchant friend of yours with this message: "Tell Ruben
Toledo give you two hundred I need hard today. " The so must be the way a banker, and the two
lords ruled patriarchal certainly trust because the commission was
paid without any difficulty, taking Mordechai two hundred dollars
in four heavy cartridges Spanish currency.

But instead of go with them to her parents, took the little way of Fez, eager to see the world
of work your account, and earn big money for the author of his days, not two hundred hard, but
two thousand or hundreds of thousands. Purchase two donkeys, began to carry goods and passengers between
Fez and Meknes, with good earnings. But a hot day, God's punishment! passed next to a river and
she wanted to take a bath. In the water floated two horses dead bad thing. Upon leaving the bathroom
it hurt the eyes: on the third day was blind.

As I still had money, some time could live without imploring the public charity, with sadness
inherent not see, and the equally deep caused by the abrupt transition from working life to sedentary.
The boy was strong and agile for overnight frail and sickly man, Merchant and his ambitions
and enthusiasms of travelers were reduced to a continuous reflect on the uncertainty of earthly
goods, and the infallible justice of God Our Father and Judge feel the hand of the sinner.
No one dared to ask the poor blind man to give her back sight, since it had not granted. It was
punishment, and the Lord will not go back when it hits hard.

Time asking his to give him plenty of money to live comfortably,
and muqui love you, but none of this was given to the poor Mordechai,
every day had less money, as these were leaving, but others enter
anywhere and of muquieres anything.

Those who approached him pretending you love, would not only his
den stealing.

One day the man was very upset about not being able to catch a flea
atrociously stung him, taunting him with insolent audacity, when ...
no joke ... it appeared two angels.

XIV

"But you see something, Almudena? - Fourth and asked kilo.

- Watch me burt them. "

He explained that distinguished the dark mass in the middle of the light: that it regards the
things of the world from here. But what of the mysterious worlds that extend above and below,
front and rear, outside and inside of us, his eyes were clear, when they saw, the same as
you see me.

Well, as two angels appeared to him, as he was not haunt him thing to say nothing, they said
they came from the King of terra baixo an embassy to him. Mr. Samdai had to speak, for which it was
necessary to be my man Slaughter by night, which was burning there ilcienso, and praying in
the middle of the spoils cattle and pools of blood, until twelve o'clock, time constant of the
interview. No should be added that the angels went away with a fresh wind in knowledge were
Mordechai your message, and this took its chess pieces to fumigate the pipe, the ration of
hemp on paper, and went little way of Slaughterhouse: the long encampment before him, he would smoking
less boring.

There he was, squatting, sniffing the fragrant fumes of incense, and smoking pipe after pipe,
until the time came, and primerito he saw was a couple of dogs, larger the cameio, Branco, with eyes
of fire. He, Mordechai, mocha Mede, he removed a Mede breathing. Next came a fix it with a
lot of riders Cantoria, galas mochas, then Rain began to fall very
thick sand and stones, so, so, who was buried up neck ... and not
breathing.

Median increasingly ... On top of all that happened slag superfast another squadron of cavalry,
giving the whites alquiceles wind, and constantly shooting shots. There followed a flood of
snakes and alcranes, which fell hissing and coiling. Poor Mede was dying blind, feeling involved
in the horrible tag unclean animals ... But Then came men and women on foot, in slow procession,
all with white robes, holding in his hand baskets and trays of gold, and stepping on flowers
as roses and lilies in magically had become snakes and scorpions, and fragrant mint and branches
laurel rained all the material warm sand and sharp stones.

To avoid fatigue, the King finally appeared, beautiful, human and divine beauty, long beard
and black, earrings, gold crown jewels seemed to be by the sun, moon and stars. Green was his
costume, which was fine as being the work of a highly polished spiders
in the deep bosom of the earth woven with threads of fire.

The entourage was Samdai so colorful and bright dazzling. As I asked Petra if not also His
coming Majesty the Queen, he remained standing a moment the narrator, recalling, and finally realized
which also saw Mrs. King, but very stuffy face like the moon between clouds Mordechai and therefore
could not distinguish right. The Sovereign wore yellow, a color as well as our thoughts when
we are between happy and sad. Expressed this the blind with difficulty supplying the clumsiness
of his language with the physiognomy of the game conviction, and
the grimaces and gestures speak volumes.

Total: than an order of the King you were putting forward all the trays and baskets of gold that
were dressed in white women. What was it? Pieldras of various kinds, mochas, mochas, which soon
formed clumps that would not fit in any home: Rubilar as chickpeas, pearls the size of pigeon eggs,
tudas, tudas large fine diamond in such quantities that they had to fill bags mochas, and bags a car
moving, emeralds such as nuts and pono trompacios as mine ...

Heard that the three women gawking, silent, eyes fixed on the face of the blind, half-open
mouths. At the beginning of the relationship, were not willing to believe, and ended up believing
by stimulation of their souls, eager to things pleasant and enjoyable, as compensation for
the misery embarrassing in which they lived. Almudena put all his soul in his voice, and they all spoke
the language movable folds of his face, and even the hairs of his beard black. All were signs,
hieroglyphics decipherable, oriental writing that listeners understood
without knowing why.

The end of splendid view was that the king told Mordechai's good that the two things I wanted,
wealth and wife could give no further than one; to opt between the jewels of great value to front
watched, and which would enjoy a fortune greater than that of all the sovereigns of the land,
and a good woman, beautiful and industrious, certainly as rare gem that could not be found
but stirring all the earth. Mordechai did not hesitate a moment in the election, and said to
His Baixo terra Majesty, that wanted nothing so much jewels in bushels, if they did not muqui
... "Want me she ... muqui like me, and without muqui me, this fine pieldras unwilling or diniero
and Naida. "

Then the King Señalole a female wrapped tightly in a blanket that hid all the face inclusive,
was on the road, and told him that was his, and that continue to
catch or rather hunt, then a slight step was the doomed.

And with that by the King deigned His Majesty disappearing, and with him went all of his entourage,
and fix it and the ladies in white, tudo, tudo, leaving no more than
a strong odor of ilcienso, and the two big dog barking that were lost
in the background of the cold night, as if terrified to flee into
the mountains.

Mordechai was sick three months after this unique event and would
not eat more than water and barley meal without salt.

He remained so thin which had to touch all the bones without being escaped an account. Finally,
crawling as he could, made his way around the greatness of the world
in search of woman who, as divine Samdai said, was his.

"And you found to tantismos years running, and called Nicole - Petra said, wanting to help
the biographer himself.

- What do you know? Not to be Nicole.

- So is the lady - the Diega said, noting not without some impertinence to poor Benina, not a whimper.

-
Me? ... Jesus me excuses! I am no Tarascon who walks along the roads. "

Almudena was from Fez had gone to Algeria, who lived on alms in Tlemcen first Constantine and
Oran then, that at this point he sailed for Marseilles, and went through all France, Lyon,
Dijon, Paris, which many large with many floors and good olive street all like the back of the
hand.

After climbing up a people who called Lila, turned to Marseilles
and Cette, where he sailed for Valencia.

"And in Valencia found to Nicole, with whom you came to clappers,
which gave you the aiuntamientos, with two cover materials - Petra
said - and you you were in Madrid to Portugal and three years I did
the happy, sly, until the slut you went with another.

- You do not
know.

- To tell the story of Nicole and how he caught him in Madrid
to take you to San Bernardino, and she went to espital, and one night
while he slept, he saw two Women in the other world, eg, souls, to
say that Nicole spoke in espital one that he was to be discharged
...

- Do not be that, not just that: shut up you.

- One day we will
tell - Benina said, that although he liked to hear those entertained
stories, would not stop more, recalling their pressing chores.

-
Wait, madam, what hurry? - Said the Diega -.

Where will you most worth?

- Another day count more - said the blind man smiling -.

Mocha me see the world.

- You cansadito, Jai. Convídanos a half to soak you language, you
have it drier than shoe leather.

- I do not invite me to them, b'rrachonas.

Not having diniero me.

- Why is not - said Diego, lavish.

- I do not drink - declared Benina
-, and I have quickly, and with the permission of the company I'm
leaving.

- Getting you some more.

Dar eleven clock.

- Letting - Petra said kindly - in case you need to go to win, that we we have already won.
"

Questioned by Almudena, reported that having taken the Diega some money owed two girls in the
street from the top deck, were thrown into the trade, then again and were highly available
and mischief for the buying and selling. Petra did not feel honest and complete female but when
it was dedicated to traffic, even if in small things, such as chopsticks, mondarajas of tea,
and Torrão. The other was an eagle and lace handkerchiefs. With that money, come their hands
by a miracle, bought a house gender balance, and on the morning of that day put their bazaars
next to the Arganzuela Fuentecilla, having the kind of place many races of buttons, sticks,
many of lace and two vests Bayonne. Another day would remove china, pictures, and horses that
gave carton, from gains in factory Sheep Street. Both spoke at length about your business, and
praised each other, Fourth and kilo because if it was not there for the acquisition of gender
by thick, the another one was advancing in salt and malice for retail
sale.

Another sign that there was been born to be retailer or anything, was that the quarter earned in
the sale you hit the pocket, awakening in her vague hopes of saving, while those by other means
were at his thin hands, he escaped through his fingers before could close his fist to keep them.

Benina
very attentive heard these explanations, which had the virtue of infusing some sympathy to
the drunk, because she too, Benin, felt businessman, also touched
her soul ever dream of buying and selling.

Ah! if, instead of engaging in service, working as a black woman had taken a front door, another
rooster will sing. But old age and the indissoluble moral society Doña Paca it impossible
for the trade.

He stressed the good woman to leave the pleasant chat, and when he rose to say goodbye cayósele
the pen he had given D. Carlos, and when trying to collect soil cayósele also on the agenda.

"Well,
does not lead you there are few things - Petra said, picking up the book and leafing through
it quickly, with grimaces of reading, but spelled more I read -. What is this? A book keep accounts.
How I like it!

March, it says here, then Pe ... mushrooms, then cents. Is mu bonito point here everything
that comes and goes. I write as is, but the numbers I jam, because I caught on eight fingers,
and when most do not remember him ever you get.

- The book - said Benin, which envisioned a business point - a relative
gave me my lady to take her by apuntación spending, but do not know.

No longer the Magdalena for these taffeta, and said the other ...
And now I think, ladies, you, trading, they should be this book.

Hey, I sell it, if I pay well.

- How much?

- As for you, two dimes.

- It's a lot - and kilo Fourth said, looking
at the pages of the book, which continued in the hands of co -.

And why do you want us, if we clog the black?

- Toma - Petra said, children rush to review a laugh, his finger dipped in saliva, leaves -.
Is marked with broken lines, so many numbers, so many stripes, and this is more clear ... It
gives a real, ea.

- But do not see that is new?

Its value, here, says: "Two pesetas."

Haggled. Almudena reconciled the interests of both sides, and finally was closed treatment in
forty cents, with pen and everything. Left the cafe the Benina, joyful, thinking who had not
lost time, because if were fantastic in the beautiful pieldras Mordechai lots put before him, positive
and good law was four dogs, as Four Suns, who had earned selling the useless gift Trujillo monomaniac.

XV

The long break in the cafe allowed to go like a shot the distance between the Trail and Calle
de la Cabeza, where he lived Miss Obdulia, who wanted to visit and help before leaving home,
it was clear that the child belonged half, bitch more or less, one of the hard of D. Carlos.
A quarter to twelve he entered the portal, that seemed uncanny and humid outside a prison. As
there was a settlement under donkey's milk, with little donkeys painted in the sample, and within
living without air or light, the nurses of consumptive peaceful, emaciated and cold. In goal
gave asylum to a Benina known, the blind Pulido, who was also a fixed point in San Sebastian.
With him and with Burrero chatted a while before climbing, and they gave him two very bad
news: that would raise the bread and had fallen sharply the stock market, the first signal that
it was not raining, and the latter of which was to drop a fat revolution, all because the artists
asked the eight hours and the masters did not want to give them. Burrero announced soon with
prophetic gravity would remove all the cash money and there would
be more than paper, even for the ESP, and that would throw new contributions,
including, for scratching and be a who's who good days. With these
bad impressions Benina up the ladder, as rested as bleak, with the
steps in rumen, the peeling walls, without signs missing carbon or
pencil scrawled with paneled doors, through which loomed the lower
hinge piece of mat, and dirty street lamps seemed like urns day Saints.
In the first floor, coming down from heaven, with neighborhood cats
and a magnificent view of the shingles and dormers, Miss Obdulia lived,
his house, by the width of dilapidated rooms and cold would like convent,
but for the low elevation of the roofs, which almost caught hand