 Space since it is the vastness of God.
Adopted this theory there is no objection to the space infinite, eternal, indestructible.

[69.] This opinion is against him, which destroys the simplicity of God. If the space is a property
of God, God himself, because everything in God is God.

Then, being essentially extended space, God is also extensive.

Clarke saw the force of this argument, force also made him feel the argument Leibnitz opponent,
but responds to it in a very weak. Says that space has parts, but not separate. Then, whether
as may be, does. It is true that the idea of space distinguish the parties, without separating
them, but really conceive him, and without they do not conceive of space. In this case, what evidence
will be reduced for of the immateriality of the soul?

If the infinite wisdom could be extensive, why may not be even more so the human soul?

Pushed by his favorite idea, Clarke came to write what was not expected of a man like him. "In matters
of this nature, he says, when speaking of parties, the parties understand separable compound, and
separated, such as those of the substance, which for this reason is always a compound, and not a
simple substance. The matter is not a single substance but a compound substance. Therefore,
in my opinion, the matter is incapable of thought. This inability does not come from the extension,
but that its parts are distinct substances, seduce and independent from each other "(Excerpt
from a letter.) This explanation tends to spoil simplicity of the thinking, then, that for simplicity
has always understood the absolute lack of parts, not this or that
kind of party.

The inseparability does not destroy the existence of the parties, only affirms the strength of
their cohesion.

[70.] It would also be feared that this doctrine opened the door to pantheism. At the same Clarke
he objected and that her soul to God is to the world, and although this is defended charge,
however there is always a difficulty in walking were not proposed, and yet no less serious.
If no objection to say that God is space, or that space is a property
of God, what is opposed to it say that God is the world, or that the
world is a property of God?

If the world is large, so is the space, if for God and space are not contradictory things in
one being, why it will be God and the universe?

Clarke said that the bodies are composed of different substances, but what is known about nothing
but bodies that are large, and which give us some impressions? clear is that not. Well then,
God is not opposed to the extension, let alone the causality of the impressions, would have no
objection to say that what Clarke called distinct substances, not more that parts, or if you
want properties of the infinite substance. Newton came to say that space was the sensorium of
God, and although Clarke argues against the expression Leibnitz Newton
had a very rational sense, as there was only a comparison, however
the German philosopher insists such luck on this charge that it makes
itself known he had done a word such terrible effect.

[71.] Anything mixing God with nature, or put in communication perennial it, except with purest acts
of intellect and will, leads to a slope very slippery, which is difficult
not to rush to the bottom, and the fund is pantheism, which is but
one phase of atheism (II).

CHAPTER XI.

OPINION OF FENELON.

[72.] The opinion of Clarke has much resemblance to that of Fenelon, who in his Treatise the existence
and attributes of God explains the vastness, in a way that at first sight surprising. It reads:
"After having considered the eternity and immutability God, who are the same thing, I must examine
its immensity. Being itself is sovereign; and being sovereign, it is all being in itself, having
all being in itself, has no doubt the extension; the extension is
a way of being that I have idea.

I've seen that my ideas about essences of things are real degrees of being, which currently exist
in God, and are possible out of him, because he himself can produce, then the extension is in
God, and he can make it to the outside, but it has locked in the fullness of his being. "

To some extent Fenelon's words can be interpreted with a sense that it rejects the common of
the theologians. Distinguish these two kinds of perfection: some that do not involve any imperfection,
such as wisdom, holiness, justice, others involving some imperfection, such as those belonging
to the bodies, extension, etc. Fig. The first ones are also called perfection simpliciter, are in
God formaliter, that is, such as they are, therefore, that its very nature does not include
any imperfection class, and therefore be in God, nor diminish or disfigure its infinite perfection,
the second, which is also called secundum quid perfections are in God, not formaliter because
the imperfection that involve repugnant to the infinite perfection, but VirtualIT eminent that
is, that whatever they contain of perfection, of being found in God, perfection infinite, infinite,
and that for this reason, God can produce on the outside, with its creative omnipotence, but
as pre-exist in the infinite, are purged of all limitation, all imperfection,
and identified with the infinite essence, have a way of be far superior
to what they are in reality what has been expressed in the word imminent.

These perfections secundum quid, has always had the extension.

[73.] If the illustrious Archbishop of Cambrai was cinemas this sense, nothing should observe
with regard to his doctrine, but the words that follow seem to indicate that he was inclined to
the opinion of those who say that space is the very immensity of God, "Why then, continues,
do not call it extensive and corporeal? because there is so much difference, as I have noted,
between attribute to God all the positive of the extension, and attribute it to a limit or a
negation: who sets the limits extension without change the extension in immensity; who puts
the extension to a limit, makes the body nature. "From these words one might believe Fenelon not
distinguish that two modes of being of the extension, as do theologians and God gives all the
positive of the extension, only that it gives no limit. This appears prove that God is properly
extended, though with infinite extension. With all due respect you deserve the illustrious shadow
of one of the first ornaments of the Catholic Church of one of the greatest men of modern
times, I dare say that such opinion I do not sustainable. A vast God properly, even with infinite
extension, is not God what is essentially composed of large, God
is essentially simple: these are contradictory things.

[74.] But we hear the illustrious prelate continues to expose and defend his opinion of the
follows. "Since we do not put limits to the extension, you take away the figure, divisibility,
motion, impenetrability, figure, because this is nothing more than a way of being bounded by a surface,
the divisiveness, because it is infinite as we have seen, can not be diminished, and therefore
not divided, or compound, or divided, the motion because if we suppose that a whole has neither parts
nor limits, can not move from its place because there can be a place outside the true infinite
can not change the arrangement in the situation of its parts, because that is not being made,
the impenetrability finally, because the impenetrability is inconceivable conceived two bodies
limited of which one is not the other, and can not occupy the same space than the other. These two
bodies do not exist in Chapter infinite and indivisible, then it is not impenetrable. Settled
these principles, it follows that all the positive of the extension is in God, without any or
figuratively, or capable of movement, or divisible, or impenetrable,
or palpable or measurable.

"

For this passage is clearly that Fenelon was far to imagine a God compound a God with parts repeatedly,
and in a few lines, strictly denied, as was expected from their high penetration, and purity
of doctrine. But this, except that leaves of righteousness of intent, does not satisfy the conditions
of philosophical accuracy. For the moment I confess naively, that if the extension is to be taken
in the proper sense, can not imagine how removing also removes limits the parties, on the contrary,
it seems that an infinite extension have infinite parts. If is infinite, you will not figure, because
the idea of ??figure is enclosed the limit, but if true extension will be like a huge fund that can
be drawn All figures imaginable. She will not itself own any picture, but will be the recipient
of all the figures, the endless high sea where all will emerge. What it is drawn, will be in
it, the points with which the figures are completed, it will be. Who does not see this, the parties,
the composition?

The infinite extension will be unable to set, not by their lack beginning, not because of its
simplicity, but for their endless parties, for their infinite composition.

I agree that an infinite extension is not divisible, if we mean to divide separate; because in that
everything would be great fulfillment in office with a fixity infinite. So we imagine the space
with stationary parts, instead of the whole movement, with its inseparable parts, field of all
separations, but it is not separation but of division, if there is
extension True, it is divisible: conceive of space to its parts together,
but divisible; because that measure, we count them, and with respect
to them, we formed idea of ??the magnitude, distance and motion of
bodies.

[75.] These reflections so obvious and so conclusive, could not hide the penetration the illustrious philosopher,
who seems to prefer the inconsistency of language or the dark, at the fatal corollaries that
flow from the first proposition. Had said without equivocation or restrictions everything
positive that the extension was in God, except the limit, had said limit the extension was
corporeal, and to convert the extension into immensity sufficient to remove the limit, and
therefore attributed to God real extension, though infinite, and then trying to explain and strengthen
their teaching, says that this extension has no part. What is an extension without parties? Is
there anyone who can conceive? Does the extension does not involve by necessity, an order of things
of which the few are out of the other? This has always been understood, therefore speak of an extension
without parts, is to talk about an extension improperly said, when speaking of such extension,
not enough to say that has no limits Needless to say, is of another nature, that the term extension,
is taken in a sense completely different. This seems to know, in spite of the darkness of the
above words when you get up on the wings of his religion and his genius, and continues: "God
is not in any place or at any time, for its absolute and infinite being has no relation to the
to places and times, which are nothing more than to be limits and restrictions. Ask if beyond the
universe, if it exceeds the tips of this at length, breadth and depth; is to propose a question
as absurd as asking if it was before the world was and whether will be when the world is not.
Just as in God there can be no past or future, there can be no nor more here or beyond, the continued
succession excludes any measure, excludes the vast any measure of extension and has not been,
not is, not here, not there is no more beyond any limit: it is absolutely, all expressions that
refer to some term, set it somewhere, inappropriate and indecent. Where is it? he is, and is
so Thus, it is necessary to beware of asking where, what is nothing by halves, with boundaries
so is some thing, which is nothing but the same thing, but God is not just something unique
and restricted all, is being, or better said, to put it more simply: it is, the fewer words are said of
him, but things are expressed: it is, beware of adding anything. "

[76.] In these great words, and others that can read in the same place, the elevation and the
grandeur of ideas about God and His vastness makes you forget the difficulties against first
proposition, if not false, or inaccurate, is not as clearly expressed desirable. Therefore,
I dare not claim that his opinion coincides with that of Clarke,
as in the eloquent writer, poet Christian and the philosopher seems
to rectify.

CHAPTER XII.

WHAT IS DESCRIBED IN THE AREA.

[77.] We have seen that reason is not based on the opinion of Descartes,
which completely confused space with the body, making the essence
of this include the extension thereof, and stating that wherever we
conceive space, there is no body.

But perhaps nearer to the truth who say, that in fact the space is not more than the same extension
of the body; regardless of whether they constitute the essence of them, and also denying its
infinity.

[78.] Examine this opinion. Analyzing the generation of the idea of ??space is which is nothing
more than the idea of ??extension in the abstract.

If I have before me an orange, I can get through abstractions to the idea of ??a pure extension,
equal to that of the orange.

To do this begin to dispense with its color, taste, smell, softness or hardness, and as may
affect my senses. So I have no more than an extended being, which, if you spoil mobility, is
reduced to a portion of space equal to the volume of the orange.

It is clear that these abstractions I can make over the entire universe: what will give me the
whole idea of ??space is the universe.

[79.] Here I am going to drop a difficulty that can be opposed to this explanation of the idea
of space, and I'll take advantage of this opportunity to clarify
some as the origin of the idea infinite space, or is the imaginary
space.

The difficulty is this: the idea of ??forming a volume of space by the simple abstraction qualities
that accompany the extension, more space is inconceivable that an equal volume the body on which
abstraction has been made. Then the abstraction made on a Orange will not give us more than a volume
of space equal to that of an orange, as well as made about the universe, no more than give us
a volume of space equal to conceive in universe. But this will never prove the idea of ??limitless
space, which gives us whenever we think of space in itself.

Solution. Abstracting, dispense with the particular and we rise to the ordinary. If gold make
abstraction of the properties that are gold, and attend only to those which has as metal, I prefer a much
more tin, the metal, it is necessary not only to gold, but also to
all other metals.

With the abstraction I erased the boundary separating gold from other metals, and I formed an idea
that extends to all, not specified or exclude. If the idea of ??metal, abstracts what is metal, and
I stand only to what is mineral, I wiped another limit, and the idea is more general yet. And
if going by the same ladder, step on the idea of ??inorganic, body substance to be, shall have
reached a point where the idea is extended to all [1].

This will check to see that leads to the generalization abstraction, blurring on the boundaries
that distinguish and how to separate the objects. Applying this doctrine to the abstractions on bodies,
find the reason for the idea of ??unlimited space.

When the abstractions made on the orange, I'm only with the idea of ??extension, I have not yet led
to abstraction at the highest point possible, because not even conceive of the extension in itself,
but the extension of the orange: conceive of its length, not the extension. But if without
that your, if I stick to the extension itself, so the idea of ??figure vanishes, the extension
is delayed indefinitely, I can not point to any term, because any limit would give me a specific
extension, a particular extension, no extension itself. Then withdrawn as it borders the universe,
for by large this is, in reaching a limit, provides a particular extension, not the same extension.
Here's how it seems to engender in us the idea of ??imaginary spaces.

[80.] This is explained by the simple order of understanding, we can
confirm with the observation of the phenomena of the imagination.

When I imagine the course of an orange I imagine a limit to this or that color, in this or that quality:
as one can not imagine contained no lines that end. This limit to our imagination, something is different
enclosing the extension and the extension of separating the enclosed, as if we are not submit
to feature something, we could not imagine him as a limit, would not fill its object being
to distinguish that which limits us. Then abstraction is not complete; because in the mind there
is still something very specific, which are the lines that are the limit. Delete these limits,
and expands the imagination, and in proportion as the limits removed,
it expands again, to sink into a sort of dark abyss, without end,
as we imagine the universe beyond.

Will clarify this explanation with a simple example. Our imagination is similar to a blackboard
that is painted a figure. When the wax see the white line, which is the figure, see also figure,
but if we delete the line, we are left with uniform Figure all the
wax.

And if we assume that the lines are removed indefinitely Ended waxed
look in vain for a figure, we have no more than a black surface to
be extended indefinitely.

Behold quite like the manner in which the imagination is born of
endless space.

[81.] When we ask for the extension of the idea in the abstract, yet
complete, we something contradictory.

The limit to the extension removes the generality destroys the generality the limit. There
is no abstract idea of ??extension as limit.

After designing the extension in all its abstraction, conceive the extension without limit, and trying
the imagination to further the understanding, imagine an indefinite space.

[82.] Summarize this doctrine and deducing their consequences, we could say:

1.

No. That space is not more than the extension of the body itself.

2. º That the idea of ??space is the idea of ??the extension.

3. º That the different parts conceived in space, are the ideas of particular extensions, where
we have dispensed with their limits.

4. º That the idea of ??infinite space, is the idea of ??extension in all its generality, and thus ignoring
the limit.

5. º That the imagination of an indefinite space necessarily born of the effort of the imagination destroying
the boundaries, following the progress of generalization of understanding.

6. No. That where there is no body space.

7. No. That what is called distance is not nothing but the interposition of a body.

8. No. That all intermediate body disappearing, no distance, no immediacy because there contact,
by absolute necessity.

9. º that if two bodies alone in the universe is metaphysically impossible that distension each
other.

10. No. That big empty or small, coacervate or spread, it is absolutely impossible.

[83.] These are the consequences that follow from the doctrine set
forth in this chapter.

If the reader asks me what I think about them, and the principle
on which lie, confess naively, that although the principle seems true
and legitimate consequences, however, the strangeness of some of them,
and still more those of others that will be noticed in what follows,
I instill suspicion that the principle is hiding an error, or that
the reasoning inferred with the consequences, there is a flaw that
is not easily noticed.

Thus, more well present a series of conjectures and reasonings to support them, not a review well
established. With this, the reader will understand what I mean by the word demonstration, when
used hereinafter to see it again and again, being the deduction of some very strange consequences,
rather than in my opinion worthy of attention.

Say this, not just to explain what happens in my mind, but also to warn the reader against undue
reliance on these matters, whatever the opinion is adopted. Before to begin research on space and
I note that in these matters offer arguments in the opposite direction, they appear to be
equally conclusive, indicating that human reason reaches its limits, and the suspicion that
the investigation leaves the sphere is adhered to the spirit, for some primary condition of its
nature.

Anyway, let us continue guessing, and since we can not go beyond certain limits, we exercise understanding
the scroll in all its extension. So when we are on land high, encircled the bottomless abyss,
we are happy to walk around the circumference, looking at the immense depth beneath our feet.

I am now going to deduce other results, dropping in reaching the difficulties that are offered;
and making some applications whose immense significance produces
uncertainty and inspires timidity.

CHAPTER XIII.

NEW CHALLENGES.

[84.] If space is but the extension of the same bodies, the extension
will lack of container, ie have no place to stand.

This seems to be in contradiction with our most common ideas, as through what we conceive a thing
extensive, we think also the need for a place equal to it, which
can fit and position.

This difficulty, at first sight very serious,
very easily fades, denying that everything extensive need a different
place it in to register. What is this place? Is an extension where
it fits. Now, this extension or place, it must turn to another extension
that register, or not? if the first thing I will say the same about
the new place, which place the First, and so on to infinity. This
is clearly impossible, and therefore we agree that it is false that
any extension that needs another extension to register. And the extension
of space there would need another extension, just as the extension
the bodies did not need the space: there is no difference between
the two cases, then the need for a place for all extension, is an
imaginary thing that contradicts reason. Then the extension itself
can exist, then there is no objection to the bodies thus exists.

[85.]
What then must be the change of place? Nothing else but changing bodies
the respective position. This explains the movement.

Suppose three
bodies A, B, C, located in space: their distance are not more than
other bodies brought. The change occurs a new position, will movement.

[86.]
After a single body can not move. Because the motion involves necessarily
the run away, and no distance when there is only one body.

This result
at first sight it seems absurd, for going against our way of feeling,
and imagine However, if we examine with attention the same way to
imagine and feel, we see that our spirit phenomena are in accord with
this theory.

The movement does not mean anything to us, not sense,
is not perceived in any way, when we can not relate to the position
of different bodies together