 

PAULINE Garagorri

I

A friend of mine, deputy novel, whose name was
not put here because it is the case, was entusiasmadísimo with his
district and particularly the place where he had his greatest strength,
place we designate by the name of Villalegre.

This rich, but small population Andalusia, was flourishing then,
because its fertile vineyards, which had not yet phylloxera destroyed,
producing exquisite wines to be sold to Jerez to be agreed in Jerez.

Villalegre was not the head of the judicial district, or officially the most important population
constituency of our friend, but there were few votes were so subordinate a big vote, all voted
unanimously and, as they say, poured the stew for the person whom the Great Elector appointed.
And understand that this was unanimously to Villalegre, in all elections,
the most extraordinary dominance.

Grateful to our friend the chief of Villalegre, named Don Andrés Rubio, I gave by clouds and
we cited it as proof and example of that fortune is not blind and that favor with one who is worth
it, but with certain limitations, that is not out of the circle he
lives and shows its worth the lucky person.

Without doubt, don Andrés Rubio, had he lived in Rome in the early centuries of the Christian era,
had been a Marco Aurelio or Trajan, but as Villalegre and lived in
our age, quieted and contented with being the chief, or rather the
end or the emperor Villalegre where he was joint number and where
he bowed to the rule and obeying all happy.

Rep. novel, however, more exalted district to another subject, because without it there showed
benevolent omnipotence of Andres Rubio.

Just as Philip II, Louis XIV, Pope Leo X and almost all the great sovereigns have had a favorite
minister and constant without which it might not have displayed his wonderful attitude and
would not have achieved hegemony for his country, Don Andrés Rubio was also the minister who,
within the small circle where he worked, was a Bismarck or Cavour. This character called Don Francisco
Lopez and was secretary of the City, but nobody called him but Don Paco.

Although he had met and fifty-three, was so well preserved that resembled
younger.

He was tall, lean meat, agile and strong, with very few gray hairs yet, to trim and black mustache
and beard, very dapper and neat in his person and attire, and blue eyes expressive and large. He
lacked either grind or tooth, which was healthy, firm and very white and equal.

Don Paco spent amenísima and joyful man conversation, peppered with
jokes you laugh without offending or hurting a lot of neighbor, and
by working storyteller because he knew perfectly the life and miracles,
the sets of love and fortune and wealth and poverty of those living
and breathing human beings in Villalegre and twenty leagues radius.

This, with regard to taste. For what is useful, Don Paco was better: it was a real handyman.
As in the village, although there were two and three doctors licensed in law, were lawyers
Peperris, or dry, all went to Don Paco, Rabbula and jurist, he knew
more laws that were invented, and helped to compose or composing any
motion or pleading litigious business on a commitment and amount.
