 Just
go to the home of Magdalena and repair your best nonsense that I made yesterday performing
in a public place where she and Julia were my uncle. I was not alone ... It is very possible that
I have seen, because Julia has eyes where I find was not. I appreciate the fact you ensure skillfully
questioning an already another. If what I fear has happened, invents a plausible explanation
that no compromise, if a name, relationships, customs, something in order to recommend to the person
I accompanying, but so that neither my dear cousin and Magdalena can contratorcer information
if you happen to want to check it entered.

That night I saw Magdalena. Was one of his Friday, the day of visits. I decided to meet Oliverio
only mission I had been given. His name was not pronounced. Did not find out, Therefore, anything
positive. Julia was a little indisposed. The night before had a slight high fever as a result
of which was still weak and nervous. I must warn you that the state had long troubled me Julia.
She had done for many I've been thinking in silence because the interest out of concern that little
person, to be very true my affection for her, disappeared - I confess - involved in the movement
rompederos my own selfish head.

You might remember that the very eve of her wedding, talking solemnly about what she designated
by the term of wills, maiden, Magdalena had introduced Julia's name and mine had toyed with
low hopes whose sense was common clear. Then, in Nièvre and in Paris the same suggestion had
been renewed without Julia or I showed you the slightest idea of ??giving care. One day before
his father who smiled sweetly watching those ingenious trifles took the arm of her sister, and then
bonded to mine We stared with an expression of true joy. We stood in front of her in that attitude
that was extremely embarrassing, and it does not seem to be more agreeable to Julia; then, without
guessing that between her sister and I had more of a hindrance as way that it cancels their
joint projects, as would have been a mother, kissed her tenderly and often saying "Do not separate
us, my dear sister, may we never separate!"

Then - from the day you could wake Magdalena care point to the true state of my feelings - not
a word was back on that case and never had either the slightest indication that he still thought
of Magdalena. On the contrary, if by chance arose the idea of ??a project that certainly had occupied
in the past, seemed to have given the entirely forgotten or have not ever had. Sometimes, alone,
watching Julia with a tender expression revealing sadness. I drew a result that had vanished
hopes that had been made impossible, and that the future of his sister a time encryption chimeric
combinations, the concern and constituted a new difficulty to solve.

As for Julia, did not have to go that far.

Their feelings, determined from a principle and invariably led to the same object had not wavered.
Only the sensitivities Oliver complained that they approached more and more every day and invariably coincided
with Long considered an absence, a word too strong or a more distracted from his cousin. Altered
her health. Had the same courage worthy her sister that prevented him from complaining; but
did not have the wonderful gift of being charitable to those who hurt, who was outside to the martyrdom
of Magdalena to become sacrifices. It seemed as if the opposite the interest they showed him whoever
he was, except for Oliver that all interests I could hope for was the scarcest. Before the implacable
contempt he had accepted this last to undergo a pity that the offended. His somber to excess presented
from day to day living angles, his face, a gesture more impenetrable, and in all its person
is best defined the look of stubbornness and obstinacy in a fixed idea. Spoke increasingly,
their eyes, no longer to avoid further questioning almost never the answer, seemed that the
only calls they had retreated somewhat mixed live that thought of desires.

- I'm not satisfied with the health of Julia - had told me several times .-- Undoubtedly Magdalena
is delicate and a humor that is displeased with all, even to those
who most want.

God known, however, is not that it lacks the power to become attached to people.

In another era, I would not have spoken Magdalena, indeed, of his
sister in such terms.

Moreover this attribution of excessive tenderness and put those qualities of caring highlighted by
Magdalena, no agreed very well with the coldness of the appearances were of frost Julia ways.

I
was tired of guessing when several incidents not tell you I opened eyes wide. The care that I take
care Oliver therefore had a significance for me very serious, although
he had shown me more than half, as is done with a diplomatic agent
who does not want to find out some secret fund.

I investigated with particular care the origin and time of Julia's indisposition. What I learned
was in full compliance with the reports given by Oliver. Magdalena was mistress of her replies nonchalantly
and spoke of his sister's mouth as a doctor had spoken.

I came home late and found myself waiting up Oliver.

- Well? - I said sharply, as if his impatience had increased suddenly
during my visit.

- Nothing I've found out - I said .-- All I know
is that Julia turned yesterday's concert fever, the fever is very
high and that is sick.

- Have you seen? - Oliver asked.

- No - I
said using a lie, because the need for a little more interest in Julia
ill, very mild indeed.

He made an angry gesture and exclaimed:

- I was sure I saw.

- I
fear - I said.

He took two or three laps around his room walking very fast, then
stopped, hit the swearing her foot.

- Eh, well!

Too bad - he said .-- So much the worse for it! I am free and I do what I please.

I knew all the nuances of the spirit of Oliver, it was rare that came
in spite him to the exasperation of anger.

I did not think, therefore, deceive addressing a case in which was
engaged to a young heart.

- Oliver - I said - what happens between
you and Julia?

- It turns out that Julia is in love with me and I
do not love.

- I knew - I continued, - and the interests of the two
...

- Thank you.

Do not have to haunt for myself for something I did not want, I have
not encouraged or accepted, that never interested me that I am as
indifferent as this - in the air said, shaking the ashes from his
cigar .-- As far as Julia is concerned, you let pity, because it insists
on a crazy idea ... Misfortune makes your pleasure ...

I was exasperated,
spoke very loud and for the first time in his life, perhaps, used
to hyperbole wherein ordinary words used to use diminutives or ideas.

-
What do you want me to do it after all? - Continued .-- It is an absurd
situation: there are other situations that are at least as much as
this.

- Do not talk to me - I said, making him understand that my
own issues were not at stake and recrimination was not proof of being
right.

- Sea, corresponding to that seen in trouble out of them without
taking such other and consult anyone.

Well, well, I have no more than a resource to leave this where I am and that is no, no, always
no.

- What will not repair anything, because you say no since I met you and since I met Julia wants
to be your wife.

Upon hearing that last sentence made a motion and a gesture of true
terror, then launched a laugh that Julia had left dead if he could
hear.

- My wife! - Said with a look of inconceivable disdain for
an idea that seemed insane .-- I am the husband of Julia!

Ah ... But then, Sunday, is that you do not know me better than if
we had met for the first time just minutes ago?

First I'll tell you why I will never marry Julia and then I explain
why I never marry any another, whoever he was.

Julia is my cousin, reason perhaps, that I like a little less that any strange woman. I know
my whole life may be said to have slept in the cradle. There are people which is almost the
seduce fraternity. To me alone idea of ??marrying a woman whom I have been playing with dolls
so funny I think as attaching two toys. It is beautiful, not stupid,
so has good qualities as you want.

Worshiping despite everything - and God knows if I do I adorable! - Would be constant in every test,
I'd give true worship would be the best of wives.

Being happy would be all sweetness; would become a lovely happy feeling. But I do not love, not
love and I want nothing of it ... If this continues get to hate -
again exasperated said .-- On the other hand, would unfortunate, terribly
unfortunate, will a future!

The day after the wedding would jealous and would not be right. But six months later and it would
be superfluous. And would plant at that point: it would be implacable.

I know myself and I'm sure of that. If this continues, I will go: I flee to the end of the world.
I watched, I follow the steps, you find out that I have loved, and my future wife is my spy.

- You're wrong, Oliver - I said .-- No spy strongly interrupting your steps. No conspires with poor
Julia to take over your will and take her hands and feet tied.

I have not done more to make a wish: that you Julia and I understand a day in that looked for
him in such safe and advantages you do not see anywhere else.

- That to secure advantages Julia and me nothing! Wonderful! ... If that could be your findings
represent my salvation. Well, well, I declare once more that you become instrument of the misfortune
of Julia and that would ultimately avoid a letdown capable of becoming a criminal coward and
kill them. No I love it! Do you want more clearly? But you know what is meant by love or heartbreak:
two opposing ideas under energy equals to the very impossibility of being governed. Try to forget
Magdalena I adore Julia try and see which of them will arrive before the end proposed. Add
my heart up, down, dig in it with the strangest quest, open my veins, and if you find a single
pulse that resembles the sympathy, the slightest rudiment of which to say it can be love someday,
take me to Julia without waiting a moment and I marry her, otherwise I do not talk any more about
that girl I is unbearable y. ..

He stopped, not because they had exhausted their arguments - that he chose a inexhaustible
arsenal - as if suddenly calmed down for an instant reaction on itself. Nothing equaled Oliverio
the fear of appearing ridiculous, the care that had not to say too much or too little, strict
sense of the measure. Warned that listened for a quarter of an hour that was digress.

- Word of honor - he said - fool me again, you make me lose my head.

You're ahead me with the coolness of a confidant of comedy and I seems that I'm giving the show
a tragic farce.

Then he sat in an armchair, was placed in the position of a man who
is prepared not only to rant, but a discourse on ideas and changing
his tone light so quickly and completely as attitudes have changed
and blinking a little, with the smile, continued:

- There may come
to be married.

I think not, but speaking with prudence will tell you, if you want, that in future anything
can be admitted: they have seen amazing conversions. Ring after something that I find. If ever that
something appeared to me as I seduced, adorned with a name that would be a nice partnership with
mine, whatever, on the other hand, the fortune, it could happen to do crazy, because it would
in any case, but she, at least, would be to my liking and I would not have been inspired only by my whim.
At the moment I intend to live my way. The whole question is this: find what should be our way
of being and not copy anyone's happiness. If we were the two switch roles you would not want to
ever represent my own and I would be even more embarrassed me to interpret yours. As much
as you say, to you like novels, complications, rugged situations, you have exactly the force
needed to touch the difficulties without fault and weakness rather delicate flavors anxieties.
You will Procures all extreme emotions, from fear of being a bad
man to the pleasure proud to recognize almost hero.

Your life is drawn, and I see it from here: go up Finally, offer your adventure so far as it can
go without committing an outrage, always cherish the delicious idea of ??seeing two fingers of
a failure and avoid it. Do you want me to tell you everything? ... Magdalena one day fall
into your arms asking for grace, you will have the unsurpassed joy see a holy creature languor
vanish at your feet you will avoid it - I'm sure - and with a heavy
heart you would leave and mourn his loss for years.

- Oliver - I
said - shut out of respect for Madeleine if you do it for pity on
me.

- I have concluded - replied without the slightest emotion, -
as I say not a reproach, not a threat or a prophecy, it's up to you
to make me wrong.

I just want to show how we differ and convince you that the reason is not from nowhere. I
like to be very clear in my life I have always known what other similar cases and what I risked put
himself at risk.

Fortunately, neither one nor the other hand was exposed anything too precious. I like things
that are decided promptly and in like manner be untied. Happiness the real joy is in me a legend.
The paradise of the world closed in on the steps of our first parents
behold forty-five thousand years that man is complying with semiperfecciones,
semifelicidades and semimedios.

I know the truth of the appetites and the joys of my peers. I am modest, I am deeply humbled by
being nothing more than a man, but I resigned. You know what my big concern? Kill the boredom.
Who was able to make that service to humanity would be the real destroyer of monsters. Coarse and
annoying, all the rude pagan mythology has not just imagined subtle and more frightening. Are
very similar to the one and the other is ugly, flat and pale although they are multifaceted and
life capable of doing nasty ideas from first day when she puts her foot. They are inseparable
and form a couple horrible not everyone sees. Woe to those still young to realize there! ...
I have always known: they were at school, there could you also know you, not left to inhabit
a single day during the three years of vulgarity and meanness that it went through. Sorry to tell
you: Sometimes going to your aunt and my cousins. I had forgotten about living in Paris and
continue fleeing from them, throwing the bustle after the unexpected luxury with the idea that
those two little ghosts bourgeois parsimonious, shy, routine, do not follow me down that road.
The two of them have made many more victims of deadly passions rated: murderers know their
customs and I have to fear ...

This continued speaking in a tone semiseria, exposing ideas that amounted to a confession of irremediable
mistakes and making me vaguely discouraged fear and you know whose solidity.

- Are you going to hear the news of Julia? - I asked.

- Yes, in the anteroom.

- Will see again?

- As little as possible.

- Have you planned what to expect?

- I expected to marry another or remain single.

- Goodbye - I said, but had not yet left my room.

- Goodbye - I replied.

And we broke up after this last word in the background did not affect our friendship, but that
broke everything, no more noise, dryly, as broken glass.

XV

For more than a month that Madeleine had not seen five minutes at no more witnesses and time
still had not found it nothing like their other amenities time. One day I found it by chance on
a deserted street in the neighborhood where I lived. She was alone and was walking. All blood
from his heart flowed into his cheeks when I saw, and I need, of course, of my decision to not
run to meet him and clasp between the arms in the street.

- Where does and where it goes?

This was the first question addressed to you seeing it as lost and
venturing into a part of Paris, which should be the end of the world
for the Countess of Nièvre.

- I'm two steps from here - he replied
with a bit of timidity, - to make a visit.

And he named the person whose house was.

- Whether or not received
- said, - Let us part.

It's good to see we are not together.

Nothing insolent in their procedures.

You have done such crazy things for me to hereinafter to me to be
cautious.

- I leave you - I said waving.

- About - continued Magdalena
at the moment away .-- I go to the theater tonight with my father
and my sister.

There is a place for you if you want.

- Allow me to reflect on ...--
pretending I did not have commitments tonight .-- I am not free.

-
I had thought - added to the sweetness of a child taken into lack
.-- hoped ...

- I absolutely can not - responded with a cold-blooded
cruelty.

It seemed as if returning pleasure caused me a whim and caprice by
torturing.

At night, at half past eight I went in his box. I pushed the door gently as possible, she had
the feeling that I was not affected because even turning his head. Remained occupied entirely
of music, his eyes fixed on the stage. Only when he the first break of the singers could approach her
and forcing her to receive my greeting.

- I come to ask a place
in your box - I said putting half on a lie - unless that this post
is not for Mr de Nièvre.

- The Lord of Nièvre not come - turning
Magdalena said side plates.

He would stage a masterpiece, immortal.

Incomparable singers, who have disappeared, put it transports of
enthusiasm.

The audience burst into frenzied applause.

That wonderful power of music passionately, stirred by hand as the muse of brain heavy hearts
or distracted and reported more insensitive to air viewers of inspired. A tenor, whose name alone
was a prestigious, arrived near the proscenium, two steps away from
us.

It had an attitude when collecting, a bit awkward nightingale going
to sing.

It was ugly, fat, was poorly dressed, unattractive, another similarity with the virtuoso winged.
From the first notes in the room had a slight tremor, like a forest
where the leaves flutter.

I never felt so special as that night, evening last and only when I wanted to hear. Everything
was selected, to the language of fluid, undulating rhyme paid to
the idea crashes sound Italian vocabulary and makes a music book.

Singing the ever tender and plaintive anthem of lovers who wait.

One by one, into melodies never heard, developed all the sadness,
all the heat, and all hopes of hearts very much in love.

One might say that was addressed to Magdalena, so we got her directly
penetrating voice, excited, quiet as if the singer had been confident
heartless of my own pain.

One hundred years have I looked at the bottom of my heart tortured and burned, before finding
a word that were worth a sigh of that melodious instrument said so many things and did not feel
any.

Magdalena listened eagerly.