 

"Do not cry, do not cry - Polo said a little stunned, staring at the tablecloth -. When I see you so
distressed I do not know how I feel. Indeed, a curse on us ...».

And pouring from his chest as big a sigh that seemed to snort a lion,
he meditated a short time, head on his hand.

Both weighed him an idea he had.

XVI

"I have an idea, Torment, I have an idea - he whispered like a whimper -. Here the say, and
do not laugh at it. It is an idea born in my solitude, raised in my sadness, and you both look
a little wild ... Is that because there is no help for me in this society, as I'm not as strong
as my passion and I've made in my state so great horror, I have been come to mind to land,
but a lot of land, between me and this country and I happened to my bones back in the latest
in the world, on an island in Asia, or in California or in any British colony ... There are beautiful
lands over there, land that is havens, where all is innocence of manners and true equality,
land without history, girl, where no one would question what he thinks, fertile fields, where
each crop trembling mystery land patriarchal societies begin and
which resemble those Bible paints for us.

I dream of breaking all over and leave there, forgetting what I've been and Following killing
of the big mistake of my life, it got me where I have called and misled the society and to
God, putting a mask to make people bu. "

Upon hearing this, flash of joy shone in the eyes of Torment, which at the purpose of migrate
looked easy solution to the terrible problem that was hampering their
lives and their future.

More soon turned its joy in disgust, when Polo said this:

"Yes, that's my idea ... go there, but taking you with me ... What,
are you scared?

Feeble!

Things look too near and you are afraid of even the flies.

The world is great, and God is bigger than the world ... Will you come? ".

- Yo! - Said the young woman making an effort to conceal his horror and shook her head.

- Give me a reason.

- Not.

- But one reason ...

- Not.

- I will answer you with a thousand
arguments that will convince fixed. I thought so much of it! ... I
have seen so clearly the smallness of our surroundings! ... Institutions
that seem so huge so terrible, so universal, are grains of sand, when
the thought shot this ball and go to where it is now is night. Beware
that the planet is large, care is great, and in it all kinds of things,
people! ... Lie to think ...

Torment not started to think about anything,
and if not, I'd think he meant. Silent, looked their own hands crossed
on his knees.

"Give me a reason - repeated Polo -; tell you something
that you have occurred