 And if there were some riots or conspiracies or
surveys, the main and most movers brought to Cuzco to a safe place, where squeeze themselves
into a prison that was full of wild animals such as snakes, snakes, tigers, bears, and other bad
bugs, and if anyone refused, they said that those snakes would not do wrong, and if lied, that
would kill him, and this madness had and kept at that. And in that dreadful prison had always,
for crimes they did have a lot of people, which looked at time to time, and if his luck that he
had been bitten hobiesen will not [to] some of them, sacábanlos, showing great pity, and dejábanlos
return to their land. And in this prison guards had who were sufficient to guard her, and to care
tubiesen feed them that were lit, and even to the bad bugs that had there. And true, I laughed
good wins Cuzco when I heard it used to be the prison, and although they told me the name,
I do not remember and therefore I do not put [74].

In times past, before the Incas reigned, it is understood that something very natural these provinces
did not have the people together as we now have, but their strengths strong, they call pucaraes
[75], which he left at will give one to another war, and so were always modest and lived with
great work and anxiety. And as the Incas ruled on them, Paresce bad this order and the way they had
in the villages, mandáronles, trying in some parts with praise and other threats, and in all places
with gifts they were doing, to which he is for the good of not living like savages, but before,
as men of reason, set their towns on the plains and foothills of the mountains together in
neighborhoods, such as and how the disposition of the land as ordered, and in this way, the Indians
left pucaraes that the first had, ordered their people the right way, and in the valleys of the
plains, and in the mountains and plains of Collao, and for which there was no anger on fields
and fields, they were dealt Incas terms, pointing out what each one had to have, where they
set limits to knowledge of those who had and then Dellos Nascar. This clear what the Indians
say today, and I was told to me in Xauxa, to where they say that one of the Incas were divided
between them the valleys and fields today have, with which orders have been and remain. And
in many places one of those who were in the mountains, ditches pitches were taken from the rivers
with much greater delicacy and wit which were taken out, and all peoples, the one and the others
were full of quarters and deposits of kings, as in many places it is said.

And they understand how much work would walk a country so long and
to where each league and at every step had new language, and it would
be great difficulty understanding them all by interpreters, choosing
the safest, ordered and sent, under severe penalties to put it, natural
that all of his empire and knew they understood the language of Cuzco
generally and they and their wives so that even the creature left
chest hobiese his mother, when she began to show the language had
to know.

And though at first was difficult, and many do not want to put in more languages ??may learn
from their own, Kings could therefore that came with your intention, and how well they meet
tovieron its mandate, and so true it is understood that in time a few years was known and
used a language in more miles and two hundred leagues, and although this language was used, all
spoke theirs, which were many, although I write not believe it.

And as a captain come out of Cuzco or any of the apricots to take account or residence, or justice
of the commission for, among several provinces, or to visit what he was commanded, not talking
in another language than that of Cuzco, nor they with him. Which is very good, brief, high-comprehension
and supplies of many words, and so clear that in a few days that I tried, I knew [it] enough
to ask me many things wherever he went.

Call the men in this moon language [Rune], and the woman Guarare [huarmi] and to the father
yaya, and brother [76] guayqui [Huauque] and sister to [77] Nana [Nana], and the moon keel, and
the subsequent month, and wadding year and a day click [Punchau], and at night tota [tuta], and at the
head called oma and to the ears lile [Rinri], and the eyes naui [Ñahui] and to the nose sunga
[zenca or singa] bankers and teeth [Quiru], and to machinery and arms to the legs chaqui.

These words only get in this crown, because now I see that to know the language formerly used
in Spain, go changing, wise one to one and other to another, for the times to come, is for God
to know the events that have, so for if he comes something cool or to forget that language and
so ensued as people used, they are not hesitating what was the first
or the general, or where it came from, or what about this more is
desired.

And therefore I say that was very beneficial for the Spanish have this language, as she could
to go everywhere, some of which are already losing.

In this kingdom of Peru's public fame among all natural, how in some towns the region of Puerto
Viejo is used abominable sin of sodomy - and also in other how bad would have land in the rest
of the world. And I notice this a great virtue desto Incas because, being masters as free
and had no one to realize, and neither had any such powerful among
them who fetch it, and that something else did not understand the
nights and days that lust to be with their wives, and other hobbies
- and never say or that none of them used the above sin, before they
hated those who used it, having them in just as vile to timid, as
gloried in such filth.

And not just in their people did not find this sin, but even consented to be in their houses or
palaces no they knew who used it, and even without all this, I think I heard that if they were
know of anyone who had committed such a sin, punished [him] with such punishment, it was noted and
known to everyone. And in this there is no reason to doubt, but rather has to believe that none
Dellos fit such a defect, or dried apricots, or many other nations, and those who have eScript
Indians generally, generally condemning this sin, claiming that they are all sodométicos have
acargádose it and, indeed, are forced to recant, then wanted to ANSI condemn many nations and
peoples, which are far more clean on this from what I can say. For, leaving aside the Puerto
Viejo, in all of Peru did not find these sinners, but as it is in every place and in all places
one, or six, or eight or ten, and these, that secret They would sometimes be bad, because they
had by priests in the temples, who is famous in the holidays they will mate with the gentlemen, they
thought committed they were doing evil or sin, but by sacrifice and deception of Satan was used
[78]. And even that by chance could be that the Incas Inoren such a thing in the temples was committed,
[and] disguised as something it was not to be bad cysts, and they think that enough sent by
all parties to worship the sun and the more their gods, meddle in proibir religions and ancient
customs, which is death to pair them that nascar them take them off.

And yet we also understood that once, before the Incas reigned in many provinces went as wild men,
and some went out to war is to give to others, and ate as now make the province their weapon
and other regions, and after Incas reigned as people who had great reason and holy and righteous
customs and laws, not only they did not eat this dish, because many have been and it is estimated
but they stood to remove this custom with them that they tried, and in such a way that soon
completely forgot and threw herself, in all his dominion, which was so great ate and not many years
previously. Those that now have happened, it will show that came notable benefit of the Incas,
not to imitate them their past eating aquesta delicacy the sacrifices of men and boys.

Published each other, - still, perhaps, any one of those who presto escriptor throws write it
- they killed, there were days of festivals, mill mill or two more children and Indians, and
this and other things bear witness that we wake up to these Spanish Indians, meaning that treats
these things count, cover up our mistakes and justify higher the ill treatment that we have
received any. That I do not sacrificed and that no Matavan men and children in such sacrifices,
but not what is said or far. Animals and their livestock killed, but human creatures less
than I thought, and tired, second tell instead.

So, I have learned from the dried old said that these Incas were cleaned
in this sin, and not using other bad habits of eating human flesh,
or walk wrapped in public services, nor were messy, before they were
corrected to himself.

And if God allowed to have chripstiandad who with zeal, not greed branch, in the past give them
a complete picture of our holy religion, people in whom it was printed, SECOND so that now
we see the good order that there is work. But let what has been Indeed, God, Quel know why,
and what is done from now on, we implore give your grace, to pay something to people that both we and
how little we offended to have been disturbed by us, while Peru and many other leagues Indies
d'Spain, and many seas in the middle.

As the city of Cuzco was the principal of all Peru, and she resided
most of time the kings had in the same city many of the principals
of people who were between all the more astute and prudent, for its
directors, for they all say, that before attempt any thing and important,
such as communicating with these, an associate their views the most
votes, and for the governorship of the city and the roads were safe
and nowhere is hiciesen no insults or thefts of the most famous [79]
dest, They were always appointed to punish those who were ill, and
for this, were always much everywhere.

So they understood the Incas in providing justice, none dared to do mischief or theft. This
is understood as respect to those who facts walked thieves or forcing women, or conspired against
the king, because otherwise many provinces hobo who had their wars with each other, and all
could not the Apartallos Incas in them. "

In the river that runs next to Cuzco to justice those who were lit there or to another prisoners
wore part, to where they cut their heads and gave them death in other ways even as they were
pleased. The riots and conspiracies punished a lot, and more than all, which were already taken
by thieves and such, the children and women of whom were aviltados and counted to income between themselves.

In natural things achieved much these Indians, and the movement of the sun as that of the moon,
and some Indians said there were four big skies, and all claim that the seat and chair of the
great Maker of the world God is in heaven. I often ask them if quel reach World has to end, laugh,
and know little about it, and if something you know is quel what God allows Satan to tell
them. Everyone called Pacha, knowing the back quel sun does, and the waxing and waning of
the moon. It counted the year, which called wadding, and do a dozen moons, taking account of
it, and used for turrets small, that now are many of the hills of Cuzco something kept [80] for
the quel sun to shade them, fields and understand what they understand more about it. And these
Incas looked a lot in the sky and the signals, which will also be hung them as great soothsayers.
When the stars are, there is great and the screams that make flutter to each other have.

Concluded with some things for my purpose agree to write, then return with grand soon to tell
the sequence of the hobo kings to Huascar, and now I that the great, rich and highly appointed
Curicancha temple, which was the main all these realms.

And among the Indian public, being the temple as old as the same city
of Cuzco; most of Inca Yupanqui, the son of Viracocha Inca, the accrescent
in wealth and stopped as chrisptianos was when entered in Peru, and
most of the treasure was taken to Caxamarca in Atahualpa ransom, and
say instead.

And they say the apricots, which after have happened had the dubious war that the citizens of
Cuzco with Chance, agora are lords of the province of Andahuaylas, which as of that victory
that treats were Inca Yupanqui stay such an esteemed and appointed lords from all over flocked
to serve him, great service by asking the provinces metals gold and silver, because, in those
times, had great miners and delicious grains, and finding herself so rich and powerful, remembered
ennoble the Casa del Sol, - which in their language called Indeguaxi [Intihuasi], and by another
name Curicancha called it, which means golden fence - and acrecentalla with wealth. And that all
who see or read this to know how rich freshly temple was the hobo in Cuzco and the value of
those who built and he did such great things, porn here memory, second I saw and heard to many early
chripstianos who heard the three [81] who came from Cajamarca, that [he] had seen, though the
Indians have both dello and so true, that there is no need another probanza.

Circuit had this house in more than four steps, all surrounded by a strong wall, carved stonework
around the building very good with fine stone very well placed and established, and some stones
were very large and soperbias, they had no land or mixture of lime, but the bitumen they tend
Hazer their buildings and are so well carved these stones which seems
not mix or join any.

The stone seemed to be something dark and rough and most excellent [83]. There were many doors,
and covers very well made; to mean [84] Wall, a band of gold than two feet wide and four fingers
of altor. The covers and doors were plated plates of this metal. Further inside four houses were
not large carved in this way, and the walls inside and outside plated with gold, and do the
same woodwork, and coverage straw was served by tile. There were two seats on that wall, where
the sun shone in dating, and the stones were carved and placed in Sotil holes many stones precious
emeralds. In these seats sat the kings, and if one did so, he was worth death.

At the doors of these houses were put goalkeepers who had charge of looking for virgins, there
were many daughters of lords, the most beautiful and betting that they could find; and were in
the temple to be old, and if any had knowledge with men, killed or the burying alive, and do
the same they made to him. These women were called virgins, did not understand weaving in
and paint over wool clothing temple service and making chicha, which is the wine making, that
had always filled with large jars.

In one of these houses, which was the richest, was the figure of the
sun, big, made of gold, wrought very first, engastonada many precious
stones, and were in it some of packages of the past who had reigned
Incas in Cuzco, with a great many treasures.

A radius of this temple were many small dwellings for Indians questa Members service, and there
was a cercuito where he brought the white sheep and children and men sacrificed. They had a
garden that the lumps were pieces of gold, and was artificially planted with corn, which were [of] gold, and
the cane dello like leaves and pods; and were so firmly planted, although strong winds hiciesen
not ripped. Without all it had made more than twenty gold sheep with their lambs, and the shepherds
with their slings and staffs, who guarded, made this metal. There were lots of jars of gold and
Silver and emeralds, glasses, pots and all kinds of vessels, all of fine gold. On the other walls
had carved and painted some bigger things. Anyway, it was one of the richest temples there
in the world.

The high priest, called Vilaoma [Villac Umu], had his abode in the
temple, and priests to the ordinary sacrifices with great superstition,
according to its usual.

A holiday he was the Inca general were present at sacrifice, and they made great feasts. There
were inside the house and barns temple thirty silver, which blew the corn and This temple had many
provinces who contributed to their service charges. In some Demon Days was seen by the priests,
and gave answers vain and that conformed to the it was intended.

Many other things could be said of this temple, he left, because I
think I said enough so that they understand how big thing was, because
I try not Argenteria, beads, feathers gold and other things, that
if written, would not be believed.

And what I have said, even chripstianos living who saw most of them, who took to the rescue
Caxamaca in Atahualpa, but much is hidden by the Indians and lost and buried. Although all Incas
had adorned the temple, in time of Inca Yupanqui was increased so
that when he died and Tupac Inca his son, hobo empire, was in this
perfects.

Many temples were the hobo in this kingdom of Peru, and some are very old because they were founded
before, with many times the Inca reigned, and in the mountain range the high, as in the mountain
range (and) of the plains, and reigning Inca, were built again many others where they made
their parties and sacrifices. And why make mention the temples that were in each province in particular,
would be something very long and tedious, determined In counting only those who had at most
eminent and leading. And so I say that after Curicancha temple, was the second guaca of the hill
Guanacaure Incas, is in sight of the city, and was frequented by them and honored by what
some quel say brother of the first Inca was converted in the place
of stone, while that came out of Pacaritambo [Pacárec Tampu], as initially
counted.

And in this mountain had formerly oracle where the damn devil speaking, and was buried at the large
round sum of treasure, and some days they sacrificed men and women, to whom, before they were slaughter,
they made them understand that priests had to go to serve [to] the God who worshiped there,
back in the glory that they pretended they had with their ravings, and so, holding certainly
those who were to be slaughtered, the men became very Galanos and dressed with fine wool garments
and gold llaut, and patens, and bracelets, and oxotas with gold belts, and after having heard
the parliament of the priests liars they made them, gave them to
drink plenty of chicha with great vessels of gold and solenizaban
[with] sacrifice songs, publishing them, which, to serve their gods,
they offered their lives in such a way, having as happy reprime death
instead.

And having good lament these things, were drowned by the ministers, and placed on their shoulders
quipes [85] gold and Jarrilla of the same material in hand, buried them round to the oracle in
their graves. And to those canonized saints such had for each other, believing that they were
undoubtedly in the sky serving his Guanacaure. Women also were dressed sacrificed with their
fine clothes richly colored and feathered, and golden moles, and spoons, and bowls and dishes,
all of gold, and well dressed, well after they have drunk, were drowned and buried, believing
them and those who killed, who were to serve his devil or Guanacaure.

And hacíanse great dances and songs, when they made such sacrifices quest. Had This idol, which
was the oracle, with its chácaras, yanaconas, and cattle, and virgins, and priests who took
advantage of the most dello.

The third oracle huaca of the Incas was the temple of Vilcanota, well-appointed in these kingdoms, and
to where, allowing it to our Lord and God, the Devil had great times to big mouth and spoke
for the false priests that serve the idols in it were. And there was this temple Vilcanota little more
than twenty leagues from Cuzco, near the village of Chungara; and was highly revered and respected
and offered many gifts and presents, and by the Incas and gentlemen, for the rich men of the counties
[of] which came to sacrifice, and had their priests and virgins and fields, and almost every year
were made in this temple offerings the capacocha, which is what I will say then. Large dabase
credit to what the devil said for your answers, and at times, they made great sacrifices of
birds and cattle and other animals.

The fourth temple estimated and frequented by the Incas and natives of the provinces, was the
guaca of Ancocagua, where we also had very ancient oracle held in high veneration. Was stuck
with the province of Hatun Cana, and at times ranging from many parties, with great reverence
this demon to hear their responses vain, and had it grand sum of treasures, because Incas and
everyone else put them there. And also it is said that without the many animals sacrificed to
the devil, that they had for God, to do the same for some Indians and Indian as well as told
that was used in the Guanacaure hill. And in this temple hobiese wealth is being said, tiénese
for truth, because after the Spanish have won the Cuzco over three years, and the priests and chiefs
have raised the great treasures all these temples had, I heard that a Spanish named Diego Rodríguez
Elemosin (so) guaca Desta took more than thirty thousand pesos of gold, and this has found
no more, and still There is news of the buried an immense quantity of silver and gold in parts
that no one know, if God does not and never will be taken if it were not for luck or chance.

Without these temples, they had another by such an esteemed and popular as them, and more, who
had by name the Coropuna, which is in the province of Condesuyo,
in a very big hill covered continues to the winter snow and summer
does not go away ever.

And the kings of Peru most major visited this temple, making offerings and to present and
those already these, and tiénese very certain, that the gifts and capacocha that this temple
was made, there were many loads of gold and silver and jewels buried in parts dello not known, and
Indians hid another large sum was to service the idol and priests and virgins, who also had a lot of
the temple [86], and as there is so great snow, do not rise to the top, not managing to know
where they are so great treasures.