 Just if mankind
is born. I have read in a very learned book this sentence, I will never forget. "Mankind, in
its collective life, not yet born."

All this long history that we already living in the spring of maximum and descry a long future,
glorious and fruitful, must not, however, rejoice too much, or less hubris. Compared our twenty
millions of years already served, plus twenty million at least last spring still on this planet,
with other springs and peak years of other planets and solar systems larger ones, may seem more
brief this spring that the ordinary and vulgar fine year, which only
lasted three months.

I spent days pondering on the subject, and found myself in the field, in pleasant solitude in deep
valley surrounded by steep rocks, where there was quiet, cool and
a thousand plants, herbs and flowers, had awakened a dream that seemed
pure spiritual vision and intuition to something real, but for me
physically imperceptible.

Within the area of ??one square kilometer understood that there were some subtle emanations of
certain fluid thousand times fainter than the air flow that penetrated the air around, infusing
in the gaps and interstices that allow molecules. This fluid, that man does not see, neither
weighed, and never feel with your senses, does not rise beyond a mile. We therefore a cubic kilometer
of this fluid filled thin, diluted in the air as perfumes or fragrances. Figureme, then, my world
as a cubic kilometer apart, and saw that it was populated by a lineage of sylphs so tiny that
if you accidentally swallow any one of the meanest molecule air, this molecule and perhaps you
will drown or choke as any of us a peach pit. My lineage sylphs breathe, therefore tenuous fluid
which I spoke.

With air molecules do sylphs thousand beauties, and even play when they are young, huge disparity
through blowguns.

Outside cubic kilometer is for my sylph infinite, unknown and unfathomable. Living in one hour,
but his mind is so fast and so subtle that at this time have time plenty of room for instruction,
love, spread, careers, rising to the highest positions, leave an illustrious name to its legitimate
offspring, and even tired of life and appeal suicide. One minute
for any of them is much more than a year for any us.

Their poets composed verses desperate and disillusioned at fifteen minutes after birth, and
his wise invent the deepest and most convoluted systems of philosophy at thirty minutes.

The voice of my sylph is so thin that only the fluid can be transmitted in waves above sound. His
words are so early in a second story concerns a sylph who the most concise of us take three
or four hours to count. Everything between us is extensive, it is intense among the sylph. In four
hours of any day is extended History of the Sylphs, and is so rich
in revolutions, changes, wars and progress, like ours in the 1870-odd
years that separate from the Christian Era until the time of writing.

Sylphs have my human figure. I understand that every soul, every thought that informs a body, big
or small, gives this figure as the most beautiful.

The beauty of my sylph is such that if we could make a very powerful microscope to get to see
them, men envy and we desperately fall in love with the females.

They are very advanced in civilization. They have had many prophets and founders of religions;
but passes including age of faith, and scratching the dawn of the age of reason.

His knowledge of history, without any mixture of fable, what gives severe criticism by Indeed,
nothing more than ninety days, which amounts to over three thousand generations. And like a minute
for them is to be equivalent to a year for us, we can say that they
make up the age of their civilization over 129,600 years.

Beyond that, going against current time, the Sylphs are not clear, but if among them are a
Darwin or a Haeckel undoubtedly place the appearance of the first world monera sylph at a distance
proportionately much larger.

The concept of the universe are very different from that formed us. And not because his reason
is inconsistent with ours, but because there are other data from
their senses.

Fail with the view to the sun or the moon or the stars, where the streams of burning light Throwing
on them first, and warm, silvery light that bathes the moon, come for them from a hidden spring.
So are a thousand scenarios to explain. Course there are long historical periods of light and other
long historical periods.

In his world there are living beings, of such gigantic proportions that we do not even conceive.
A wasp is cheaper for them than it would be for us the Nevado de Sorata, if pulling himself from
rennet, cheering and throwing wings, to receive a fly and show us through the air. Fortunately,
the excessive smallness of the Sylphs and agility portentous save them of these monsters.

It
is clear that the infinite is always infinite, so in the mind of a sylph and mind of a man.
At this point, if we incur a rational speculation, our concepts are equal, but to count on extended
to greater numbers, to notice much, Sylphs beat us, penetrate your senses and see and perceive
depths extension of time, volume and duration in the infinitely small,
where the median, the mean for us, the universe of a cubic kilometer
is more daunting for them the whole vastness of the heavens to us.

And do not stop putting so beyond its infinite universe unexplored.

Walk all very proud with their culture and their progress, they judge without limits. Just as
there is already a very long last, expect even longer future. And
it is certain not wrong.

They were born this past spring and will finish at the end of next fall. Now, it's summer, are
around the height of its grandeur. The same thing happens to us.

Who knows if there will be things in which we compare what we think we are my sylph? If any
of these beings come to find out that we exist, as I have come to find out that there sylphs
such, do not laugh, or pity us, seeing hope yet so long future? The millions of years we have been
living and those who hope to live Moreover, it will be for a spring. Perhaps, when you return
the Summer or bathing in some bathrooms of their world, find and made our own desolate ruins and
extinct, our ephemeral race. But it will be right. What is important is intelligence, which is not measured
by rods, not for miles, nor Earth diameters.

Its activity, when fertilized, can condense in a minute more facts, more ideas, more creations,
more glory and more hell, that other intelligence reluctant, lazy and stupid, for ever and ever.

Last
morality. Everything is relative, as I said D. Hermogenes. No less no more. In time I've taken
me to write this article to fulfill my rash promise, a man fertile ingenuity had been able to
write the history of the entire human race, and in less time, my sylph are able to do the most
important of his own history. Do not give for sure, because I've come to learn well and do not
like to fantasize, but it is possible while I've been writing all these candideces afanadísimo
and innocent, so muddle through, my sylph have founded new empires,
created constitutions, invented philosophies and machinery, and erected
monuments in their feelings, evergreen.

Such consideration I am ashamed and humiliated, rather than full of
vanity, and, although not of Sylphs, but men like me, the audience
has to read to me, he still presented with the greatest distrust of
this writing, I have not had sleep or mood, or time to do more soon.

THE CORDOVA

The editor of this work was kind enough to entrust a century been one of his articles, and I naturally
chose the Cordoba, as the province of Cordoba, where I was born and I grew up.

My extreme laziness has prevented me until now to keep my word to
write.

Perhaps to palliate this lack me I had a number of difficulties and objections, which was
half thinking of condemning the editor, to help justify my tardiness in to fruition with my
work.

What essential difference, or even accidental notable difference can be or is say, between Cordoba,
the jaenense or Seville? Back in the old maybe any, because communications were so easy, and
it was easier to live isolated and sedentary, but on the day that, not men and women in adjoining
provinces, but those remote nations apartadísimos faraway countries and kingdoms, and visitors
are often How to persist the variety and distinction of types, giving occasion for describing women
who by their customs, beliefs, ways of feeling and thinking, appearance, continent and costume,
differentiate to the point that the paintings or descriptions of them make, vary by subject,
not just by the style of painting or describe? Also, I said I, though the stamp of caste and nationality
are indelible, not who hits delete or confuse the continued existence and the inner spiritual
commerce at this time both are written, read and travel, in this age of steam and electricity,
railroad and telegraph, still not persuaded that there is also a mark of provincialism, as no
seal of nation, tribe or caste. The peculiar and castizo, as have the These unique qualities,
from divisions that made the nature, and not the administrative or political divisions, ie artificial,
as are the divisions provinces. Malaga or Seville will, no doubt, caste and more homogeneous soil
with certain Cordoba, Cordoba than those of many together. A woman of Cuevas de San Marcos,
for example, should be more like another of Rute, Rute a Belalcázar
to another, and more will resemble that of the Benamejí Casariche,
Benamejí than that of Almodóvar.

Tired as I know that between the Galician and Catalan woman, and between La Mancha and Bilbao
had to mediate radical differences, but that of each province, was the it was, he would have
a special type, I was hard to believe.

I just saved monotony of this book and encrypting the variety in the diverse talent of every
writer in the bias that manages to give the matter, and the singularity of his style, thoughts and
feelings.

I never thought that the editor wishes we wrote a scholarly review, a number of lives of all the famous
women of each province. This would perhaps be not only entertaining, but exemplary and didactic,
but it was not, nor have I committed to writing my article, if this is it. It was historical
work, or biographical, which was traced and planned, but box and painting the living habits
or accurate picture of what today is reflected in every province in land use, culture, ideas,
and other items, conditions and actions of women.

And being the thing, I repeat that I did not see me for nothing or almost nothing to stop
the monotony of the work on the subject, although the subject, or I should say by the subjects
came to be a flower garden, and the layer of the student, through the diversity of styles and
idiosyncrasies of each writer that she put an hand.

Thus, on more or less, walked me wondering, when family duties took
me to kidney in the province of Cordoba, to a happy region where the
local color is provincial released by the handful of lavish nature
and inexhaustible in their various creations.

Y being this color, this stamp, this type throughout, how, I said to myself, not to be so in
women, which is soft wax for impressions, and hard to preserve bronze without they fade?

More than five months I went in my place, and this time apparently moved completely respect the
book of Mr. Pebble. I had no excuse for not writing the article.

He was convinced that if I paint Cordoba was not a type sui generis, it was because I did not
know painting what I was seeing a clear way. I decided, therefore, since to do this painting,
ingenuously confessed that, if it does not original and new, the fault is mine and not the
model.

One thing still troubles me and makes my purpose. To see and treat the Cordoba of the day, come
my imagination the species nearly wiped from my childhood and early youth, tired far unfortunately,
slept or were buried in my mind, the first in Cordoba third of this century. The disparity between
the memory and print this confused me a little. Cordoba female type has not disappeared, but
there has been change, but change it has not been castizo to the exotic. The change has been
for development of the interior very essence of women in Cordoba, which, like all essences immortal
remains in substantial foundation, while taking on new forms and
new accidents.

The Cordoba of this historic moment is not the previous historical moment in Cordoba, but is always
of Cordoba, and always continues to make its essence as each neighbor's
daughter, externalizing the typical idea their own, and presenting
different aspect in each of the various developments with the exteriorized.

I

see that elevates me too, and I'm going to go down and speak with more frankness, leaving kidnapping
philosophy for another time.

Today I get the Cordoba in the light as it is, while memory retracts me as it was thirty or
forty years ago. Of confusion arises here, something like a antinomy, but while studying the antinomy
is resolved with little work on a synthesis supreme. This short, if you were right I to create would
be a neat article. Moreover, no this synthesis is not possible the article because I'm not
going to paint the Cordoba dead stop stationary, inert, fossil, but
the Cordoba living, moving, developing, in progress; unfolding, not
given impulse, but by the laws of their own great being and its rich
and generous body.

To purchase the whole concept of Cordoba is necessary to study in different classes and states:
from the great lady to the porter rude woman from the girl to the elderly, from the daughter's
family to the mother or grandmother, and see and visit, and in the former and splendid capital of
the Caliphate, and in the Sierra, north of the Guadalquivir, abundant mines and wild meadows
and elusive, and the bountiful countryside where there are populated places and from the beautiful
cities, where wealth, welfare and culture are higher. But if we were analyzing and examining all
of these things separately, it would end or our article, and so should
touch only capital items, and encrypt and summarize in two or three
types everything in Córdoba most characteristic and proper.

Of course, in the province of Cordoba is rich ladies who have been or are in Madrid, that may
have gone to Baden or Biarritz a summer speaking French, who have walked in the forest of
Boulogne, who know perhaps several foreign courts, who read the novels George Sand and Lamartine
in the same language they were written, and that Worth dress with Laferrière, with or with
Isolina Honorine. In all of these women remains remains the essence of women in Cordoba, but it would
be necessary to deepen and penetrate too discover that essence through so many attachments to strangers
and so many false externalities.

Seek, therefore, to Cordoba where we have no genuine need for further or eliminate to find it:
let us look at the villager, whether rich and poor, and lady and maid.

The villager is extremely hardworking. However poor, must clean the house jumping. The floors,
marble tile, brick or plaster studded seem burnished by dint of mopping.

If the mistress of the house has a well, shine in two or three glass china cabinets and dishes,
and in symmetrical rows adorn the walls of the kitchen pots, pans and Other dishes of brass or
copper, where can one see the face in a mirror.

The Cordoba is all surveillance, hygiene, care and careful economy. Never leave keys the pantry,
cupboards, chests and cabinets. On the shelf units or shelves of the pantry usually maintained
as provident and rich profusion, a treasure of foodstuffs, which account, and prosperity of the
house, and of fertile farms of the owner, if they are products Indians and, as they say, one's upbringing
and tillage, and the skill and elegance the lady, whose work has increased the value of the
first subject with some preparation or condiment. There has walnuts, chestnuts, almonds, sweet potatoes,
wrapped imperial cirolitas paper for the writing, brandied cherries, apricots and a thousand other trinkets.
Peppers spicy hot peppers and garlic and horns, hung on strings next to the cod the less neat.
In part there is usually neater sugar, coffee, sage, linden, chamomile, and even tea sometimes,
just before the pharmacy was. Hanging from the ceiling and giant egregious hams, and, alternating
with the pastoral statement of the animal kingdom, sweet andregüelas wintry, grapes, pomegranates
and other fruits. Preserved in deep glazed crocks back Mrs. marinated pork, covered with butter,
birds, ie, offal, kidney and spleen of the same quadruped, and even
rubble, artichokes, mushrooms and asparagus and amargueros, all it
so well prepared, it is enough heat in a hurry to give a hearty meal
any guest who comes unexpectedly.

The killing is done once a year in each house well-off, and in that task usually look lady its
activity and skill. He rises before dawn to scratch, and surrounded by her servants runs, she does,
the series of major operations. Seasons and mass of the black pudding, pouring on her, sprayed master
and the appropriate proportion salt, oregano, cumin, pepper and other
spices, and manufactures sausages, sausages, sausages and other sausage.

Most

of this is suspended from the humerus in long rods or bars of iron, which provides to cook a delicious
abundance of succulent character. Are almost always in winter visits around the home, where a
mountain of burning oak or olive pulp and pomace under the broad hood of the fireplace. So
if you get wet from the rain and transfixed cold, and the street, and the field, raised his eyes
to heaven to be giving thanks for as well, is much better and have to reiterate the thanks, to
discover that dense constellation of sausages and black pudding, which transcends and aroma
to the nose down, penetrates in the stomach and awakens or revives the appetite. Many times I have
satisfied myself, being talk shows at night, around one of these homes hospital! Maybe the
same lady, perhaps a servant bold and agile, with kingly generosity took down one or two sausages,
and roasted on grills on the embers. After meals with white bread with a sip of local wine, which is
the world's best wine, and delicious and festive conversation, they knew these puddings to glory.

It
is unfair to fame when he says he eats bad over there. In my province there is a sybaritic rustic
love.

Well you know my countrywoman estimate, look at your table and serve the best fruit starting with
the one raised in his heritage, a thousand times more pleasant to the palate and more flattering
for self-love that held the fence as others. Nor does either, at station timely blunders Carcabuey
cherry, pear of Priego, melon Montalvan Alcaudete peaches, figs Montilla, oranges Palma del Rio,
and even those only plums, which are given only on the slopes of Cabra Castle, plums, sweet
and Honey, you smell better than roses. As for the grapes, not to say they are better or worse anywhere,
they are excellent in all: and there lairenes, pedrojiménez, black Albillo, dombuenas kid at
heart, muscat, trivial, and a thousand other lineages or vintages.