 One can not say
what they are capable people. So many things happening now that were not in my time ...! At least
what we tried was careless of you to take scissors and tris! lie down hair. It would be a shame,
because you have very beautiful. Also, that hair is not yours, but to the Virgin, who saved you from
this serious illness ... Remember! I offered that if you wore your hair give him good to decorate
your effigy in Santa Catalina. Do not trust I say.

As he spoke he held his head between both hands granddaughter and she spilled the copious curls
in the back and shoulders.

- Yes, "replied Cecilia pursing her lips and lifting with the front
air of disdain, as I'm so stupid to deceive me so, so ...

- However,
the daughter, the best of the dice is not playing them.

I well know you're a girl docile and understood, but I'm certain you do not know these people.
Look, do not listen to them, although boneless dry them calling you, do not go where they are. But
now I remember: the best is that for a hundred miles around them get close by. Later that same
man you say that wherever you clothing you sulking. God knows who will! Although we should not
think ill of anyone, however, such as a saint can be one of ... (And is crossed without concluding
the word.) The Lord be with us. In addition, Cecilia, you're very innocent, somewhat bewildered,
and in that house ... Do you not know? There is a witch who steals the pretty girls. By miracle
of His Divine Majesty has escaped. You were there in the afternoon, right?

- In the evening, had not yet turned on the lights in the houses.

- Woe to you if you get to go at night!

Now do not go further in your life to that house, or passes not around the block.

- Anja!

With living there also a big boy and that the bullet all the time for Santa Teresa with a book under
his arm. Whenever I go I want to fuck, I run back and knows my name ...

- Student, wicked, as all of them. At least he dropped the nails at the same Barabbas. But I see
that you have a rock hard head, and even though I eagerly to advise
you do not get anything.

In fact, who has seen so pretty a girl like you whipping walk the streets, with drag and sandals loose
and disheveled hair, until late over many of the night? Who learn
these bad habits?

Why do not you tell me where?

- And Nemesia, the daughter of breast Pepper musician, is not being on the street until ten o'clock?
Last night nothing less stumbled on the square of Christ lunita playing with a lot of guys.

- And do you want to compare with the daughter of breast Pimienta, a shabby Pardito, street, and
poor maid? When you least expect to bring that spirit-home on a table with the head split into two
pieces. The goat, daughter, always changes its spots. You are better born than she. Your father
is a white knight, and some day you must be rich and carriage ride. Who knows? Nemesia but will
never be more than what it is. Get married, if married, with a mulatto like her because his father
has more black than anything else. You, on the contrary, you can almost white aspire to marry
a white. Why not?

God made us less. And you should know that white though poor, is
for husband, black or mulatto and the ox of gold.

I speak from experience ... As I was married twice ... Do not remember things past. If you
knew what happened a little girl, near your age, for ignoring the advice of his grandmother,
which predicted that if he was to walk the streets late at night was going to happen very unfortunate
...

- Tell me about it, tell me, Chepilla repeated the girl with such curiosity.

- Well, sir, a very dark night, the wind was blowing strong, certainly was a day St. Bartholomew,
which, as I've said before, you release the devil from the three pm, Narcisa was the girl that
it was his name, sat singing softly in the stone doorway of his house while his grandmother prayed
cornered behind the window ... I remember like it was now.

Well, sir, had touched souls in the Holy Spirit and the wind was off the few lights, the streets
were very dark, quiet and lonely, as pitch.

Well as I was saying, the girl singing and the old praying the rosary, when being so, cate you
hear a violin playing there in return Angel. What is included the Narcisa? That was a thing of
dancing, and without asking her grandmother, oste unsaid or moste, he ran and never stopped
until the hill. So the old finished praying, believing that his granddaughter was in bed, as was
natural, closed the door.

- And on the street left the poor girl? Cecilia interrupted the counting samples of anxiety
and pity.

- Now you'll see. The old lady, before bed, because it was late and fell sleep, took a candle
and went to the cot to see if her granddaughter was sleeping. Imagine what it would not stay that
loved her so much, to find the bed empty. He ran to the front door, opened it, shouted to her
granddaughter: Narcisa! Narcisa! But Narcisa not responding. Already seen, how he to answer
the unhappy if the devil had taken?

- How was that? embarrassed the girl asked.

- I'll tell you, Hump sign calmly continued, noting that it had the desired effect his fairy stories.
Well, sir, Narcisa reaching the five corners of the Angel, he appeared
a very handsome young man who asked him where he was going at that
hour of the night .-- A view a dance, "replied the innocent .-- I'll
take you," replied the young man and taking her by the arm took her
to the wall.

Although it was very dark, Narcisa noticed that as they walk the unknown was put tight, very
tight, such as coal, that the hairs on your head as you straighten Lesnar, that the sizes teeth
sticking out laughing as pig boar, who was born two horns on their foreheads, who dragged a
furry tail on the ground, come on, it got heated by mouth as a bread oven. Narcisa then screamed
in horror and tried to escape, but the figure brown dug her nails into her throat when she screamed,
and loading with her, he climbed the tower of the Angel, who, as you've noticed, has no cross,
and from there threw in a very profound hole that opened and closed again swallowing it in
an instant. Well, that is, daughter, what happens to girls who do not heed the advice of their
elders.

Given here in order to sign his story and began Chepa admiration,
fear of Cecilia, which he trembled from head to toe and give teeth
chattering, but constantly yawning, because most was the dream that
the fear with which, stumbling, he went to bed, which is what throw
the wily old.

     Many other stories like
     that did to the girl wandering; but
     we are sure that no other fruit brought
     with them to fill your head
     with superstitions and daunted his spirit.

         That is not why he left the girl to your liking, escaping sometimes
through the window, taking advantage of the time other than sent to
the tavern immediate corner to beating from street to street and from
square to square, when after the incentive of a dance music, when
the drums after the handover, when the carriages the funeral, when,
finally, the bog schoolboy who snatches the silver through baptism.

CHAPTER IV

Bring thought Full of impudence, and spill In clumsy thousand raucous voices That infects the
wind And highly publicized what they love.

GONZALEZ CARVAJAL

Five or six years after the time of which we have undertaken in the
previous two chapters, at the end of September, had first the convent
of the Merced to the series of trade fairs that until the year 1832,
used to solemnize the main events in Cuba religious dedicated to the
patron saints of the churches and convents sometimes overlapping novenarios
with circular Sacramento, introduced the cult of Cuba since the early
years of century by Bishop Espada y Landa.

The Novena, by the way say, nine days before the date on which the saint fell employer and lasted
until nine, which was completed two ninths row. Is said eighteen holidays, religious and secular,
who had more than grotesque and irreverent that devout and edifying. At that time it was said High
Mass with morning sermon and save raw singing night inside the church with a procession through
the streets of the holy day.

Outside the temple there was what was meant by fair in Cuba, which reduced the accumulation
in the plaza or in the neighboring streets, countless stalls, consistent on a table or board scissors,
covered with an awning and lighted by one or more lamps to burn fat, where it was sold, not indeed
any article of trade or commerce country or product of the soil, hunting, bird or livestock,
but only very low level trinkets of value, jams of various kinds, cakes, play dough, hazelnuts,
icing, water and punch Loja milk. That was not fair in the direct sense of the word.

But this was certainly not the most remarkable feature of our holiday pie. Had in show something
that was notable for too rude and insolent. We now incur at stake games and hands that were part
of the show and that caused his stupendous while lying profits, greed
for the unwary.

Directed and implemented the most black men and the worst kind. While crude artifice, trick did
not stop many who considered themselves very astute. These took place in the plaza or in the
street, the dim light of candles or lanterns, and people taking part in them of all kinds, conditions,
ages and sexes. For high social position, we mean for whites, there was something more decent,
had the house of dance, where a Farruco, a Brito a Illas or Marqués de Casa Calvo had placed
the bench or play from the dark forest until after midnight, while lasted eighteen days of
the fair.

We tried the house or houses as they were dancing neighbor to the parish could or convent where
the novena is held. In the room we danced, played in the dining room orchestra, and in the
yard playing a game known as the Mt. The table was long and narrow that would fit most of the
players sitting on either side, the dealer to a head and the other his assistant who say gurrupié.
For the protection of players and cards, in case of rain, frequent in the fall, an awning was
stretched from the eaves of the house the bridge of the dividing wall of the neighbor. Not all
gamblers, to our shame be said, were the stronger sex, older, or
the class willing, in the crowded group and demanding of those who
risked the fate of a letter, perhaps the support of his family the
next day, or the honor of the wife, daughter or sister, could lie
to see busiest lady who gamble their own decency, or still beardless
boy or a friar mercenary serge habits straw color, with wide-brimmed
hat pulled down, the accounts of the long string between the thumb
and forefinger of his left hand and right employed to place the gold
or silver coin at the point that the more he, losing or gaining always
with the same serenity of mind to face.

The banker, to call by name more decent, was who was spending the rent house, the music and
the sperm candles lit the room to dance dining and game table. All this was done to attract players.
The input of course, was free, although the bastonero, who also threw salary, did not admit
any kind person. At that time ran very strong currency, the hard Spanish and ounces gold. The silver
often small, and it was something to hear the tinkle of pesos to continuous columnar and sound
ounces, the gamblers dropped mechanically from one hand to another or on the table to distract
the mind and somehow break the solemn silence of random game.

That nothing here is drawn in broad strokes was banned or not more than tolerated by constituted
authorities, it is clear from the fact that the gambling dens in Cuba paid a contribution to
the government for alleged objects of charity. What else? Advertising that ride was played
all over the island especially during the last period the Captain General Don Francisco Dionisio
Vives, announced, to leave no doubt that his policy or his government was based on the Machiavellian
principle of purchase for master, copying the other famous Roman
statesman: divide et impera.

Because equivalent to break the mood, the corrupt, which is not the people saw their own misery
and degradation.

But this digression, however necessary it might be, we have deviated somewhat from the target point
of this history. Drew our attention to an entire class dance floor which flourished in the precincts
of the city by the side facing south. The house where he had indeed offered mean appearance,
not by its facade down and dirty as the place where he was, which was none other than the gated San
Jose, opposite the wall on a street honda and stony. Although wide door with flap, was not what
was meant in Cuba hallway, then right to the room opened. After this came the room with the
corresponding tinajero, pyramidal cedar frame, which often locked shutters stone filter, the
jar red-bellied, the vases, a kind of terra cotta and pale alcarrazas of Valencia, Spain.
The dining room that was the side door of the first room, busy mostly by two orders of red
cowhide chairs, a bed with hangings white muslin and a cabinet, which said in Havana window.
Other rooms were to that, crowded with ordinary furniture, and parallel to them a long, narrow courtyard,
also blocked in part by the high parapet of a well whose waters brackish
with the adjoining house divided, finished patio rooms and a parlor
crossed and free.

The latter was a regular size table, dressed and prepared with utensils and for up to ten people,
some soft drinks and delicacies, Loja water, lemonade, wine candy, jams Cake, covered, sighing,
meringues, a ham decorated with loops ribbons and confetti, and a large fish swimming about
in a thick sauce of strong seasoning. In the room there were many ordinary wooden chairs placed
along the walls, and right as one enters from the street, a couch, with several stands up
straight ahead. He, at the time that our story begins, he occupied up to seven black and mulatto
musicians three violins, a bass, a flute, a pair of drums and a clarinet. The last instruments
mentioned herein was conducted by a young mulatto, well built and
not evil like face, who, despite his few years, led the little band.

This was seen standing at the head of the couch on the side of the street. His colleagues, almost
all older than him, Pepper said, and it was a nickname, and his true
surname, he appointed from now on.

His gaze distracted and even gloomy, never left the front door, as if expecting something
or someone, just when we speak now.

But that door, as well as square frame window, looked besieged a crowd of onlookers of all ages and
conditions, which only allowed access to the room women and men with right or desire to enter.
And we will, because rightly or had no ballot, nor did bastonero you receive or settle. The dance,
knowingly was one of those who, without knowing its origin, called cradle in Havana. We only
know that were given fair time, which they had free entry of individuals of both sexes color class,
but he also refuses to honor young white men who used with their presence. The fact, however,
be prepared inside a good drink, test if this was a crib in the broad sense of the word, at least
part of the attendance at the invitation had been received or expected to be well received.
This was in fact truth. The mistress of the house, rich and lavish mulatto, named Mercedes, was celebrating
his saint union of their particular friends, and opened the doors
to enjoy the dance fans this fun and contribute their presence to
more luster and interest of the meeting.

Eight o'clock at night. From the afternoon had been dropping the first rainy autumn, and although
they had stopped at dusk, having soaked the ground, leaving the streets impassable, they had
cooled the atmosphere. Far from it, had been so saturated with moisture, which adhered to the skin
and boiled in the pores. But these were not inconvenience for the curious, as we said before,
besieged the door and window, to fill almost half of the narrow, crooked street, or for those
attending the dance, that as the night wore on arriving in greater numbers, some on foot, others
in carriages. Nine kinds of the dance floor was swarming with human heads, the women sitting
in chairs around and the men standing in the middle, forming a compact group, all hats on,
so head sticking out, surely encountered with glass pump, suspended from a beam of three chains
of copper, the only burning sperm candle to illuminate half as strange
as that heterogeneous crowd.

Fairly was the number of black and mulatto who had entered, mostly dressed outlandishly. The
men of the same class, whose attendance exceeded that of women not
dressed better taste, but almost everyone wore cloth coat and vest
of pique, the less Sucks canvas, denim or Arabia, which is then generally
used, and cloth hat