 

Not to throw the rope after the bucket, the poor woman went ahead and carried out the sentence and
to avoid danger and away from wagging tongues, she went to serve the people who were living at
the inn de la Solana, and there, indignities, was completed to raise my brother until he knew
how to walk and me to be a good little boy who would guests wine and candles and what else they
told me. Finally, no one said getting some passion, then do not said: "Do this, this other,
COSEDE such grass, take that root." ANSI we were going under an arcade in Escalona, ??where
at the time we were in the house of a shoemaker, there were many ropes and other things that are
made of straw, and part of them gave my master head, who, raising his hand, touched them, and
seeing what was said to me:

"Go quickly, young boy, get out so bad dish from which stifles without eating."

Yo, that it was careless of what I looked what it was, and as I saw
but ropes and webbing, it was not anything to eat, I said to him:

"Uncle,
why do you say that?"

He replied:

"Hush, nephew, according to the tricks that you take, you'll know and see as I speak the truth."

And
thus we went ahead through the portal and arrived at an inn, at the
door of which was many horns on the wall where the Recuero tied their
horses.

And if he was tempted Hence the inn, where he prayed every day for the landlady of the walled prayer,
seized a horn with a big sigh and said:

"Or bad thing, worse than you have the making!

Of how you want to put your name on head others and how few have
you not even hear your name, no way!

"

As I heard what he said, said:

"Dude, what's that you say?"

"Hush, my boy, someday you will it, I have that in hand, a bad lunch and dinner."

"Do not eat me," I said and I do not give it. "

"I tell you true, if not, see you, if you live."

And thus we passed on to the door of the inn, where it please God
never arrived, as it happened to me.

And when one of them escaped, God forgive me!, Which thousand times gave the devil, and he who had
died so many blessings from me said. Because the whole time I was there, it would be nearly
six months, only twenty people died, and I really think that I killed
or, rather, died at my request; because seeing the Lord my endless
and death, I was glad to kill you for giving me to my life.

More than this he suffered, was no remedy, if the day we buried I lived on was not dead, to look
good vezado of the fill, making my quotidian starvation rather sorry. So nothing stood out
except death, I also for me and the other wanted some times, but never saw it, but was always
with me. A neighbor said to him:

"In your house I remember that used to hang a snake, and it should be who the culprit. Maldíjeme
a thousand times - God forgive me! - and my bad luck, there most of the night, and (worst) osándome not
stir for not waken, I asked God many times death.

And as I say, he was with them just Macías, telling them more sweet that Ovid wrote. But as they
felt touched him that was fine, they are not ashamed to ask him to lunch with the usual payment.
He, feeling as cold as it was hot stock the stomach, he took it so
chill the color drained from his face, and began to trip over his
tongue to talk and lame excuses.

Them, they should be well instituted, as I felt disease, They left him for that era. For one
morning, getting the sad shirt climbed to the top of the house to make their chores, and as I get
out of suspicion, desenvolvíle doublet and hose to the head left, and found a pack of velvet,
satin fact one hundred fold and no damn white or hobiese signal that had plenty of time.

"This," I said is poor and no one gives what he has not. But the blind
and the wretched miser petty cleric who, with God give to both the
one hand and kissed another loose tongue, starved me, those are just
having aquesta unlove and undefiled. "

God knows that today, when
I run into any of their habit, with that step and pump, we I pity
to think if you have what it saw him suffer, even with all its poverty'd
still be glad to serve more than the others by what I said. Just had
of some discontent that I would not be so presumed, rather than down
a bit with how much your fantasy coming up to your need. But it seems
to me, and among them is the rule used and stored, although Trucco
not gored, they have to keep the cap in place