 

Multiple Wives, and even some lady too, had advised. But the idea of ??leaving the son of her womb
in the hands of women employees sordid and brutal horror had forever. He fought bravely as he
could, depriving it of necessary sustenance enough times to feed the child, which already had
about three years. He had, however, to the fight and was defeated. He was the use of begging,
but besides the horror that caused him, understood very well that his days were numbered. And dying
it, what would become of the creature?

He pondered a good room with dry eyes fixed on the child, repeating from time to time the same
phrase:

- No, not go to the hospice!

Rose suddenly animated by a fatal desire, kissed her son passionately until managed to wake him,
envolviolo in a blanket and holding it at arms out of the house.

It was the hour of dusk. From the top of the worms, where Basilisa lived, could be seen arriving
the wharf and fishing boats. A crowd awaited them.

On the square, and the long street running from it to the church
by the sea, also ran a lot of people.

Basilisa took Rodillero the road that encircles the opposite side
gives the small cove Peñascosa front by front, and hurried away, almost
running.

- Why are you, Mom?

Where are we going? - Asked the boy with his tiny hands stroking
his face.

- We go to heaven, my love - said the unhappy eyes clouded
with tears.

- Are we going to Dad?

Could not answer, he felt a lump in my throat.

- Come to Daddy?

"- Insisted the young.

He paused a moment to catch his breath.

- Yes, let's see, rich mine - said after .-- Do not you want to go
to heaven with him?

- No, I with you.

And at the same time choked with tender arms and covered her face
with kisses.

- Why are you crying, Mom? - Asked surprised to feel
on the lips bitterness of tears .-- Can not you got anything?

Take my horn ...

And he offered a lead that had cost Basilisa two quarters. For Gil, who did not understand
existence without messing with something, the greatest misfortune that could be weighed on a was
human hands are empty.

The mother pressed her against his chest, laid on her rosy cheeks a shower of kisses and continued
the race. At a certain spot where the road is separated from the shore the sea and then, let
them fall and took a veredita leading to it. He came to the rocks tall dark surrounding it on
that road. He put his son on the floor and kneeling then tearfully prayed a prayer tablets, not
being addressed in the form, it should not listen to the Almighty.

It was almost dark. The sea was still, dark, waiting impassively to tears of that unfortunate woman
should come as so bitter to increase the flow of its waters. Side of the creek there was the
silhouette of the pier and three or four pataches that usually lie at anchor nearby. The group
of fishing boats, a little apart, moving and still ringing with the cries of women employed
in opening the fish's belly, while the husband lay seriously as a
tavern in the town.

Attended Basilisa a moment to those sounds so familiar. She also hoped her husband at one time,
stroking her with his eyes upon arrival, took from his hands the water binder, the case of rigging
and the basket of supplies and took them home with joy.

Mariano coming soon later and sat at the fireside, with dancing between
his paws to cute boy which had a few months.

The widow was a long time staring at the bank group, which appeared
as a report and movable mass. His son, sitting on the lawn, playing
the trumpet jamming ground.

Suddenly came to him, lifted his arms and ran toward the thin edge.

- Mom! Where are we going? - Shouted the child.

The answer, if he gave it, must be from heaven. Momentum jumped into a tailspin. Falling on the
stones of the shore, broke his head was dead on the spot: the child miraculously saved. The
womb from which he now poured out not to break apart spring.

An old sailor, who was at that time among those rocks for fishing
for octopus, heard noise and provided the first aid to the child.

Ran to the news soon flooded the place of people. The case produced a deep impression. Women
wept and went to tender infant from hand to hand and caresses lavished a thousand cares. Many
offered to adopt and there was dispute over who had to take it. Aware ladies of the village
and moved, also wanted to pick up the orphan. The fishermen's wives then gave to do so in the
interest of the former. It was therefore held by Ms Eloisa, Mrs. D. Martin Houses, seconded by another
six or eight ladies in no way wanted to give up participation as charitable work.

Gil's childhood (which was the name the orphan), if not happy, was not unhappy. Their protective
vigilance exercised over him a bit cheeky at times, a little humiliating too, but always loving and
well intentioned. Between them, although taking Ms main part Eloisa, paid for the upbringing
and boarding in a couple's house craftsman who lived in the worms, near the house where the
unfortunate widow lived. When was too old for this, he was sent to school. Showed signs of
being a kid peaceful, quiet, sensitive, and began to learn their lessons well. His seven or eight
mothers were in charge ask the master for his behavior and application
whenever you encountered on the street encouraging him to 'put you
tighten the screws.

"The teacher was responsible, in effect, tighten while reminding every moment, in front of his classmates,
his orphan their misery and the absolute necessity of showing that
he had humble and grateful to his beneficent.

This humility was the thing that never stopped singing to hear at the villa. How he stumbled
in the street and deigned to put his hand paternally on the head, they said:

- Beware of being humble!

Be obedient and submissive to the ladies that you have collected for charity Do you understand?
... charity.

And finally, his classmates were responsible generously was constantly warn an unhappy without
parents, nurtured by love and that should be in the hospice and non- alternating with distinguished
sons of shoemakers, masons, tailors and bakers fashioned, and leading other people no less worthy
of respect.

Teníala humility in the heart of the drowned child and the suicide,
if not had not it would be easy to ridicule and scorn inculcate their
peers, or the parental spanking the teacher and their protective,
because they all thought they were entitled to love, but to punish
him too.

His was a nature lover and appreciated. He understood that Protecting all should respect and
affection, and is taxed. Of course, in the depths of his heart felt preferences, that is irremediable.
Passionately loved Ms Eloisa. This good lady, who was the one most needed, never scolded or
punished, or even a word I said unpleasant tratábalo with extreme tenderness, caressed him as if
he were his son and hid and excused his little antics.

When he was twelve years old, met in conclave ladies and deliberated about what should be done
with the boy. Desechose unanimously the idea of ??devoting to the office of his father. They thought
of several others, without being able to agree, until Ms Trinidad, the wife of D. Remigio Flórez,
a manufacturer of canned food, take a servant proposed messenger boy home. They nodded almost all
of this resolution, but Ms Eloisa, who was hurt, did this to her
friends that the boy had shown aptitude for studies, and would a meritorious
work to make him a priest.

The ladies have welcomed the idea enthusiastically. Only Ms Trinidad, large dotted lady and friend
to impose its will around the world, opposed strongly and withdrew from the meeting bland. Pasáronse
ladies without their help, and setting a monthly amount, would be paid to cleavage, sent the
boy Lancia seminar, capital of the province where we are.

Gil was a model seminarian, applied, sweet, respectful, caring religious practices and showing great
enthusiasm in them. The ladies who had no reason to congratulate the resolution. When I came to
Peñascosa holiday, brought to each Rector's letter expressing his satisfaction with the conduct
and progress of the fatherless. In the two or three months I stayed there, they provided some
services, reviewing the lessons to their children, assisting them in their prayers or serving as
a clerk, etc. Lived home of Ms Eloisa. Every summer they would turn a little, the child became
a man. At last he three consecutive years to come, to take the last orders. Decision time to become
a priest. When he appeared at last a day in costume Peñascosa priest, his presence caused deep emotion
in the heart of their protection. All mothers were considered him, and therefore entitled to
mourn for joy and fell into his arms tenderly.

Certainly, these reliefs were once loving some bickering between them. Because less loving
and tolerant with the child had shown were most extreme now with the man. This out of their
boxes to Ms. Eloisa, Ms Ms Theodora and Martial, always treated him with gentleness and even
mime.

Preparations began for the first mass. It was a contest of beauties among them. The rich, as
Ms Eloisa and Mrs Theodora, was commissioned to buy the cup and ornaments more expensive: those
who did not have such good fortune, as Ms Rita Ms Filomena and others, supplied the money with the
skill of his hands embroidering the alb, stole and altar cloth, which caused admiration. Fixed
the church and took part in the adornment not only these women, but many of the people, their friends.
It was an event Peñascosa brand, both for the quality of the people
who had paid for the race young priest, for the terrible circumstances
that had led to such protection.

The officiating was named godmother to Ms. Eloisa, an indication
of that.

None was better right to do so, but all are believed to both, and
this secret resentments rise again palabrillas and some unpleasant.

The pay he returned to the village and sang, his voice weak and trembling

-
Dominus vobiscum.

All the voices of the podium, tears and falls, accompanied by the roar answered body:

- Et cum spiritu tuooooo.

- What is white! - Said a young artisan's companion at his side.

- Looks like a picture.

Sang D. Narciso high-pitched voice, lowering and raising the tone and listened with pleasure,
epistle.

- Child, how repicotea the chaplain! - Repeated the craft.

- You see, there is the daughter of the hunchback. Want to show off.

He was very kind accredited in the town that D. Narcissus and the girl felt a mutual Osuna inclination,
but only the spirits heterodox and thugs dared to say high voice. D. Narcissus was indeed given
much to live among the weaker sex to enter the fort. So would Sarrió came about three years,
more or less, was the idol of the ladies Cliff by his elegant appearance, which was contrast
to the shabbiness of the most priests of the town, for his cheerful conversation, for his little
jokes and, above all, his love to be always among them. Was far from being beautiful or handsome,
was a man of thirty-five, dry, dark, big feet and juanetudos and ugly teeth; but had managed
to pass at once funny place. I never meant it to his devotees friends. Little joke goes, has
little joke, a compliment to this, a chufleta to the other, non-shortened never to be in the middle
of a large circle. In contrast, D. Narcissus extremely pleased it, enjoyed camp alone in the
house. Directed the consciousness of most of them and authorizing the lecture them out of the confessional,
sometimes harshly. Almost all received submit your corrections with, even with pleasure, and
if you temporarily revolted, was to demand forgiveness immediately. With this, Don Narciso was
the guest required in all Gaudeamus parties and fashionable society Peñascosa, ate voraciously,
and this made boast, drank the same tenor, and when the desserts arrived, never failed to
provide any coplita that was almost always dirty. Because D. Narcissus, who because of his
ministry not be authorized jokes concerning sex sex relationships are entitled to believe drop
the most nasty about other miseries of the human body. And ladies bizarre case! the laughing
and celebrating as if they were prodigious cleverness and wit. Two years later to come to the
villa had been a failure. Down the stairs of a certain house he frequented much, he broke his leg.
They said the lady's husband, who owned the house had helped to drop, not entirely agree with
the time and occasion of their visits; but instantly the good souls of Peñascosa rushed to
quell the rumor sacrilegious. And as proof of the indignation with which rejected the case, most
major ladies the town was formed in nurses beside his bed, leaving not a moment alone day and
night taking turns every few hours, as if the Blessed hiciesen guard. D. Daffodil deserved such
attention of the fair sex.

No harder and never dealt fervent zeal the salvation of the beautiful half of mankind. Not only addressed
with particular care awareness of that best represented in Peñascosa,
shepherding his sheep with love thus leaving some stone throwing which
strayed as diligent pastor era, but by dint of many sleepless nights
had been found a fraternity, established and in other parts of Spain
and abroad, the brotherhood of the Daughters of Mary.

In this brotherhood not fall more than young singles. Such privilege excited a vague defiance
mixed of appetite in married women. Creíanse humiliated with that exclusion. D. Narciso advantage
this shadow of rivalry to keep them more prone.

- Oh, ladies, should not envy you the privilege! You have husbands who look and serve.

She said in an ironic twang showing hostility secret that the chaplain was to all the husbands.
The ladies, upon whom the charms of fascination and those not exercising
some, forced smile and mischievously as saying: "Ya, ya!"

It was rumored that more in love with him. Ms Marciala, the wife of the apothecary of the place,
had gone to Sarrió to bring socks to be a priest passing time with
her family.

Ms Filomena widow of a lieutenant, his only son was going to help to Mass every day. No However,
he had noticed in him a preference Obdulia, the daughter of Osuna, administrator Montesinos.

- But it really did go like? - Asked the young artisan, listening
to his companion expressed so clearly.

- Girl, I do not know!

What I can say is that D. Narcissus leaves the house, and many days of my window I see them run one
after another in the garden of Montesinos playing tag ... So much so that I told.

- Have you told him! - Exclaimed the other, stunned.

- Yes, girl
... Can not you see I confess to him?

... There was nothing ... I said, 'Look, D. Narciso ... do not be offended ... but I, you and
Obdulia watching them play in the garden, I have suspicions ... I can think evil thoughts. "

- Ave Maria, how awful! And what did he say?

- He got all choked ... Ugh! Began to say: "For you and others like you lose credit and honor
priests and religious decay! "I called bag of malice, that seemed I lie that such atrocities happen,
and here and there ... At first I wanted to eat, then went quieting ... "You're right, D. Narciso,
I answered, but I can not help ... "And it's true, girl I can not help it ... I can not!

After the letter Peñascosa pastor sang the Gospel. His voice was rough without inflections. Without
looking completely distracted sang just the book, raising their young eyes and hard over the
glasses to look at him, rather, to spray look to the son of the Pepaina, which was secretly
pulling out the candles babas and pocketing. Although one of the most shameless rascals of the
town Parrot (which by that name was known this young man distinguished) was upset and tantico restless
under the gaze of the clergy. The thing with good reason. D. Miguel Vigil, pastor Rocky, since
25 of this century was one of the worst men genius of Spain, and do not exaggerate if we say
nothing of the globe. Had at the time eighty-two years, was high, dry, sharp features, thick
brows together, small and piercing eyes. Still had great physical vigor, and what is even
rarer, in his remaining hair barely noticed the gray. The duration of the first civil war,
left the flock and went to the Basque provinces to fight with weapons in hand for the cause
of the Pretender. He returned a few years. His character was not softened brave long walk to
Shot in the mountains. Peñascosa parishioners had in it much like a shepherd a captain of
robbers. Nobody raised the rooster in the population. The most difficult cases of consciousness used
to resolve D. Miguel in a flash with a half dozen punches or well-directed kicks. Marcellin,
the Cosme, tape was the daughter of Laureana the weaver and would not marry her. D. Miguel is
planted in the house of Cosimo, picked Marcelino by the ears, gave him three slaps turtleneck, and fifteen
days, like it or not, had them married. Ramon denied the confectioner, D. Cipriano two thousand reales
to it by had given no receipt. The priest called for Ramon to his
house, shut himself in a room with him, I took a stick and forced
to sign a receipt.

Through these procedures theological D. Miguel evangelical morality instilled among the souls entrusted
to their care.

Were not you like the latest in worship. Looked down on the clerics who sought introducing them
and took care of the dress and grooming. Tolerated them because they knew they were supported
by the bishop and the higher clergy of the diocese, but laughed at them at all times in a manner
rude, irritating, and I used them a few tricks malignant spoil any of those mystic revelry
that put more effort. We tried, for example, to hold a communion general girls with orchestral
accompaniment. The day was marked, D. Miguel sent the church with a gang of carpenters who
were placed to fix the platform with horrendous hammer, preventing concerted hear voices and instruments
of music. Other sometimes required the assiduous penitents D. Narciso-examining Christian doctrine
or While the singing in church banned after a month of rehearsals, or withdrawing from the altar
cloths that they had embroidered aplanchado, or threw in some chapel where they had assume its real, etc.,
etc. These acts of despotism earned the enmity habíanle of the Gallic clergy and female. A D. Miguel
gave a farthing for such animosity. The enjoyment of his life was not loved or admired, but do
all the time and chance their will. Furthermore, it could have all the defects they want their
enemies, but nobody ever knew shadow bias towards weaker sex. Positively despised women, believed
that none was able to say or do anything with common sense.

In his manly character seemed embodied the Roman spirit, which denied women the power to govern
itself never.

Neither is believed to D. Miguel was shown not obedient to his superiors. The bishop had trouble
an immense understanding with him. If you sent an order, without giving it cures archived compliance,
if I turned a visit, it would get in bed pretending to be sick to see him. Concluded by ignore
him and let him go with it. Peñascosa did not confess but half a dozen veterans of the civil
war. Other parishioners were split between chaplains assigned to the parish for four-fifths
of the women relied on burdens of their weaknesses to the irresistible
D. Narciso.

D. Miguel felt no despondency for this preference. And yet, the small number of his penitents was assured
that confessor prudent, discreet and delicate questions.

Finished reading the Gospel and could see the satisfaction of looking
around with persistence Lorito movements. Why was this rogue so distracted
looking at the rapt gallery in hearing the melodies of the organ,
if not for two seconds that he had seen getting into his pocket half
a pound of wax at least