 Poor, without resources,
without valimiento, what could against justice, which only supports the powerful? But my daughter
mine, and if today is not in my power, I assure you it will be tomorrow. Meanwhile guard your
money. "

Said no more. But when I finished reading it, what new and terrible phase took the scuffle between
sailors and our soldiers! God! I lose the battle? Destroyed in the first attack the French, repeated
by removing the last bit of courage in their hearts excised by heat, and returned to the charge
determined to be left to shatter in the mouth of the cannon, or take them. Our soldiers drew
strength from its spirit, because the body does not had. Even the artillery began to falter,
and wounded nearly all early left and right, attacking the latter, gave fire to others, and service
ammunition was done by civilians. The French, half raised with the courage of the sailors were able
to enable two pieces, and from afar, and taking the mass of white cavalry, firing many shots. His long
career, passing over the Spanish battery, wounding the forefront of my regiment. It reared
up as if it were a single horse collide each other, and the spectacle of two dead companions
without a fight filled us with terror. At the same time we hear that cannon ammunition scarce.
Terrible words! If our guns came to lack of powder, whether in their souls that bronze was extinguished
outrage artificial, which moves and upsets sniff the air, and sweep the floor shakes as lies ahead,
it would soon be taken by the brave sailors, and I waited dying disabled by the demeaning nail
trifle that destroys a giant pin that Achilles kills.

That finding put the willies.

"Succumb Spain? Is not God the glory reserved take the first blow to the pedestal of the tyrant
of Europe? ... No, it is possible to look indifferent the spectacle of so sublime effort, oh country,
but I confess that I was raging to know the author of that third letter in my hand, and when not
to neglect your admirable heroism signature looked and saw the name of Roman, second steward of
my unforgettable love, when thought to contain important revelations that role, so I ruled curiosity,
that for a moment out of my mind, oh beautiful corner of earth, spent more once to be balance in the
world! Adiós, Spain, goodbye, Napoleon goodbye war goodbye Battle of Bailen! As school sponge
erases the problem written in chalk on the blackboard to indulge in the game, so it wiped out
everything in me to not see more than the following:

"Mr. D. Luis de Santorcaz: I'll tell you what happened. Everything is resolved, and now give
you shut the door in their noses. Ms. Marquesa de Leiva, to pick up Miss Agnes thought about how
legitimate. I warn you that since I was treated, both want it much, and they crave for deciding
to leave the convent. When Ms. Countess received your letter, in which he proposed the legitimation
by subsequent marriage, he showed his aunt, and she, furious and out of it, asked if I would
be disgraced forever wife of such a loss. Countess cried a little, which is an indication that
he still has something of that love, and finally, after many remonstrances, agreed the two not
allowing you in your family for any reason. You know, as recorded in the foundation of this
great primogeniture, a major of Spain, having no direct heirs, passes to second-degree straight line,
so now it will be the firstborn of Count Rumble. The present Countess of Rumble, aware of the
occurrence of an heiress, announced my housekeeper would enter into a lawsuit, and see you
here on the ground that is worked at home both standing. Finally, the two families agreed to avoid
the ruin of a lawsuit, and have agreed on this basis: married to Miss Agnes D. Rumble Diego, legitimacy
upon it, by what they call the King's approval, which both rights merge into one, avoiding issues.
As the most difficult, Ms. Marquesa finally solved it in a clever and secure. The girl has
come to an end with right foot in the family. Unable to justify the mother, because it opposed the
law, can not accepted the formula of subsequent marriage, or agreeing not to adopt, not give
this right to the inheritance of primogeniture, it was agreed that I will tell you, and that without
will surely be filled with admiration. This bias is for the family business the advantage that
Ms. Countess I will not be any embarrassment. Ms. Inés has been recognized by that ... "

A violent strike snatched the paper from my hands. Encabritóse my horse, and to advance along
squad, felt the loud laughter of a soldier who said: "This is not
coming to read letters."

We ran off the road, and all my colleagues uttered frantic cries of joy. I saw the gun still, and
before a thick curtain of smoke that dissipate allowed distinguish the remains of the marine battalion.
In the French front hung a white flag progress towards our front. The battle was over.

Our soldiers are embraced with glee. Confundíanse the various regiments and civilians newcomers
to the troops. People from the nearby town of Bailen went with pitchers
and jugs water.

Agrupábanse men and women together to collect the wounded. The horses traveled proud of the road,
and generally confused by the many soldiers, showing their simplicity so happy like this. The
cries of "Long live Spain!, Viva Fernando VII!" Seemed sublime concert that filled the space as before
the sound of cannon and the world all tremble with the joy of our victory and the disaster
of the French, first hesitation proud of the Empire. Meanwhile, I ran the camp, looked down, looked
at his hands of all the carriages of the guns, the pools of blood, the thousand corners of
the floor next the body of a wounded and under the head of the dying horse. Marijuán came to me
with open arms and shouted:

- The beat, Gabriel. Viva Spain and the Spanish, and the Virgen del Pilar, who is responsible
everything!

But what you want, so look to the ground?

- Seeking a role that I lost.

XXIX

- Feel the paper - I said Marijuán -. Marine Demons! Did you see attack?

- The daughter are legitimized by royal authority.

- What are you saying?

There is not doubt that we have defeated Napoleon, and how it has overcome everyone, is that we
have overcome the world. But, boy, do not you become crazy?

See how they raise their arms, screaming, general those who come across the plain. Blessed grief,
shock blessed, blessed heat and thirst blessed because we have finally come out victorious!
Viva Spain!

- That way - I said, thinking of my war - comes to enjoy the firstborn,
marrying with D. Diego, to avoid litigation that would ruin both families.

-
What are you talking about there boy?

"- Exclaimed with surprise -. You know that the French are to be
delivered all. What a shame!

That return Napoleon to interfere with the Spanish! Chico, we will eat the world and say that
the Board of Seville is a prude if you do not send us win Paris. Viva Spain!

- And our love, where is it? - Asked uneasy -. What has been the Master of Rumble?

- I think he's dead! "- He replied laconically Marijuán, spurs and away from me.

So great news gave new direction to my rowdy thoughts. The appearance of scuffle inside, I shook
the soul, changed suddenly and completely. It all came down everything got a different color,
and the world was different from my eyes. I do not know if at that moment I felt the death
of my master, or if, on the contrary, overwhelmed the corrupting selfishness in my soul I
accepted with joy the disappearance of one who, standing between my ideal and I altered my
eyes the balance of the universe, rather than Napoleon's Europe ... In the midst of delirium
of that great victory, one of the most momentous has happened in
the world, I remained dumb and my horse carried me from one place
to another, according to his will.

Around me the patriotic effervescence of that joy, that feverish enthusiasm, causing loud
waves. There the human person was gone, melting into the beautiful whole society or nation,
which was no doubt that touched the ground with shouts of joy. The only one who was kept isolated
and could be called selfish man was Gabriel, grain sand does not cluster with the mountain, and
rolled himself, doing it for his own account Speed ??set for world harmony.

"We need to find out if he really is dead Rumble ... Will he enter the order in the family Inés
his mother? Will lose forever? Should I laugh at my foolish and ridiculous aspiration? A man
I can climb so high? Is the mysterious darkness of the coming times hide something terrible
to destroy this level? "I can wait or resign now, bless the hand of Providence that throws me off
the dust from whence I should never try out? "

These questions I had, when an unanticipated event came to a sudden change the situation of things
outside of me. It was the army to take their positions, the horn drum and summoned all the soldiers,
and large numbers of common people, men and women, ran into the streets
of Bailen.

Our detachments had spotted columns Vedel advanced general, who came to the aid of Dupont
Guarromán, and within walking distance and, a cannon announced to us the presence of a new enemy. Ay!
If Vedel had reached a moment before putting in the crossfire! But God, protector of Spain that
day oppressed and plundered Vedel allowed came when the truce was agreed and and had begun to
negotiate the surrender.

Reding instantly sent an official letter to the French General informing
him of what happened, and enemies detained beyond a chapel called
San Cristobal, on left the road, going to dance Guarromán.

Soon we saw a French officer who came the people with a trade to Reding and one for Dupont,
as in the headquarters of this were already negotiating the surrender bases, we believe certain
of not being attacked by the top of the road, because the suspension of arms was agreed affect all
the forces that made up the imperial army of Andalusia.

Despite this confidence, several regiments, including Ireland and the most famous of Military
orders, both had distinguished himself in battle, took the road ahead Vedel's troops, which at
times were coming and taking positions. My regiment was placed at the eastern entrance of the
village. Would be little more than one when the French Vedel, without waiting for their answer Dupont,
opened fire against Ireland, surprising with considerable force. Great excitement and clamor and tumult
in our ranks. All wanted to go, not to fight the French, but to pass them to the sword, for violating
of war.

But we had to subdue the traitors, precious hostages, which were the remains of the army of
Dupont, who were in our power, as a victim handcuffed and the head on the block. During the
confusion that followed the attack, some troops came to fence up the French countryside, and
others rushed to the aid of the Irish regiments and order, since
a large commitment.

Despite the inferiority of their numbers and positions of our troops,
everything announced that going to lock a battle as fierce as the
first, and the brave countrymen, as line that the soldiers were burning
upon generous desire to die, if need be, on top with an epic late
morning glory.

But Providence, as I said, was on our side.

Almost together with the first shots from the onslaught of Vedel, distant gunfire rang, which
at first did not know what referring address.

- What is that? Do they fire the Herrumblar, or is Menjíbar people? - Asked there.

- Is the division of D. Manuel de la Peña, who comes from the Casa
del Rey - one that answered exhaust all came from the first battleground.

The

third division, sent the sunrise from Andújar by Brown in pursuit of Dupont, had arrived, and
the enemy fire was announced by powder dry. Terrified by this new reinforcement, which would
destroy the remains of the army if the armistice Vedel not submit, Dupont strong gave orders
to cease fire division Guarromán just coming and the firing ceased. With this, the nine thousand
men underwent Vedel in advance to deal that fit their Commander in Chief.

We, however, weapons, and the entrances of the town continued custody
by numerous forces, who were relieved to give us some rest.

When I had left guard, dirigíme to one of the many homes of the people who cured wounded,
I put something on the left, where he received a concussion, although
slight, stung me a lot.

Then walk back to find my post when a hand feeling on my shoulder, I looked and I had the
pleasure of meeting face to face with D. Paco, the teacher and tutor
Don Diego.

- What has become of the child?

Where? There have been at home - he said in a tone distressed and turning pale.

- Mr. D. Paco - I said - frankly do not know where Mr. Earl, but I
think he must be alive.

- What fear, what terror!

The Holy Virgin of Araceli, the Fuensanta, the Pillar and the Tremedal
encourage us all together!

My legs tremble, Gabriel, and if my master and disciple does not
appear, I would not dare to tell the lady.

- I look, I saw him shortly
before the end of the battle.

Walk on either side.

- It is rare for being alive and not come home or send a message. Where is chivalry?
- In San Cristobal, where the battery was at the wheel, on the heights
of the right, those of Guadiela towards the Herrumblar, in many places.
Walk and D. Diego there.

- God willing. I, I run after him. Tell
me ... will no longer fire, eh? Are there danger to walk around here