 

Don Marcelo looked at them one by one. The hardships of war, especially the accelerated speed
in recent days, were visible on their persons. Some were tall, thin, with a slender angular, others
square and chunky, with short neck and his head sunk between his shoulders. The latter had lost their
adiposity in a month of campaigning, wrinkled skin hanging and flabby in various parts of the face.
All had their heads shaved, just like soldiers. Around the table two rows of spheres glowed pink or
brown head. Ears protruded grotesquely, the jaw bone is marked with the relief of emaciation.
Some had kept the mustache, erect, to fashion the emperor, the most were shaved short whiskers
or with a brush.

A shining gold bracelet following a count's hand placed on the table. Was the oldest of all
and the only one who kept her hair a dark blond and gray carefully and shiny hair pomade. Near
fifty years, maintaining a force female, grown by strenuous exercise. Thin, bony and strong, he
tried to hide his rudeness of a man fighting with a soft and lazy negligence. The officers treated
him with great respect. Hartrott he had spoken to his uncle as a great artist, musician and
poet. The emperor was his friend, were known since youth. Before the war, some scandals of his private
life had been away from the court, shouts of folicularios and socialists. But the sovereign he kept
secret his affection for former classmate. Everyone remembered him a dance, The vagaries of Shahrazade,
represented in great luxury in Berlin on the recommendation the powerful partner. He had spent
some years in the East. In short, a great man and artist of exquisite sensitivity, while a soldier.

The
count could not accept the silence of Desnoyers. It was his guest, and believed the case to make
speak to intervene in the conversation.

When Don Marcelo was explained that only three days he had left Paris, they all cheered, wanting
to know news.

"Did you see some of the uprisings ?...»" Did the troops to kill many people? "How Poincaré was
the murder? "

I did these questions at once, and Don Marcelo, misled by its implausibility, not know what to
say. He thought he had fallen into a crazy meeting. Then laughed suspected him. "Uprisings? "Assassination
of President? ... Some looked at him with pity for his ignorance; other with suspicion, seeing
that pretended not to know about events that had developed along
to him.

His nephew said.

- The German newspapers talk a lot about that.

The people of Paris has risen fifteen days against the government, the Elysee assaulting and
murdering the president. The army had to used machine guns to impose order ... Everybody knows
it.

But Desnoyers insisted on not knowing, nothing had ever seen. And as his words were greeted with
a wave of malicious certainly preferred to be silent. His Excellency, higher spirit, unable from engaging
in the credulity of the vulgar, intervened to restore the facts. It's murder maybe it was
not true: the German newspapers were exaggerating with the utmost good faith. Precisely few
hours earlier he had made known the General Staff of the French government's withdrawal to
Bordeaux. But the uprising of the people of Paris and his fight with the troops was indisputable.
"The gentleman has seen no doubt, but do not want to say." Desnoyers had to contradict the
character, but his refusal was no longer heard. Paris! This name had done shine eyes, exciting
all the verbiage.

Wanted to reach as soon as the sight of the tower Eiffel, entering the city victorious, to
be fed with the deprivations and hardships of a month campaign.

They were worshipers of military glory, considered necessary for the war life, and yet complained
of the suffering that they provided.

The count uttered a complaint of an artist.

- What the war has hurt me! - Said languidly -.

This winter was to be premiered mine a ball in Paris.

All complained of his sadness, his work would be imposed after the
victory, and the French should applaud.

- It is not the same - continued
the count -.

I confess that I love Paris ... Too bad that these people have not
ever wanted to get along with us!

...

And he sank into his melancholy man understood.

One of the officers who spoke of the riches of Paris through the eyes of greed, recognized Desnoyers
suddenly he held the armband on one sleeve. It was he who had looted
castle.

As if divining his thoughts, the commissioner is excused.

- It's war, sir ...

Like the others! ... The war had to be paid to the property of the vanquished. Was the new German
system, the healthy return to war from ancient times: tax charges to isolated cities and looting
of houses.

In this way, overcame the resistance of enemy before the war ended. Should not be saddened
by the looting. Their furniture and jewelry would be sold in Germany.

Could make a claim to the French government to indemnify him after the defeat: his relatives in
Berlin would support demand.

Desnoyers listened with horror such advice. What mentality of these men! Were mad or wanted
to laugh at him?

...

After lunch, some officers were lifted, requiring their sabers to meet official duties. Captain
von Hartrott also rose: he needed to return to the side the general
had spent considerable time to the expansion of the family.

The uncle accompanied to the car. Moltkecito once again apologized for any damage suffered and
waste the castle.

- It's war ... We must be hard to make it brief. True goodness is be cruel, because then the
enemy, terrified, is delivered more quickly, and the world is less.

Don Marcelo shrugged his shoulders with the sophistry.

Were at the door of the building. Captain gave orders to a soldier, and he returned shortly afterwards
with a piece of chalk that was used to signs mark the property.

Von Hartrott wanted to protect his uncle. And he began to draw an inscription on the wall next
to the door: "Bitte, nicht plündern. It sind freundliche Leute ... "

Then translated, in view of the repeated questions of the old.

- It means: 'Please do not loot. The inhabitants of this house are nice people ... friendly
people. "

Ah, no! ... Desnoyers vehemently repelled protection. He did not want
to be nice.

Silent because I could not do anything ... But a friend of the invaders of their country! ...

The
nephew erased part of the sign and left only the beginning: "Bitte,
nicht plündern."

"Please not to plunder. "Then at the park entrance repeated registration.

Considered necessary this notice could leave His Excellency, the castle could be installed on
other officers.

Von Hartrott had seen much, and his smile implied that nothing would surprise him, by huge it
was.

But the old man continued ignoring their protection and laughing with sadness the label. What more
could loot? ... Had already been the best.

- Bye, uncle. Soon we will be in Paris.

The captain got into his car, after shaking a cold hand seemed to repel soft with its inertia.

Returning
to his house he saw the shadow of a clump of trees a table and chairs. His Excellency my coffee
outside, and forced him to sit beside her. Only three officers with him ... Greater consumption of
spirits from the cellar.

Speak German among themselves, and remained so Don Marcelo still
about an hour, anxious to leave and not finding the right time to
leave his seat and disappear.

Guessed out of the park is a great movement of troops. He spent another corps with deaf rolling tide. The curtain
of trees hid the incessant parade headed south. An inexplicable phenomenon shook the calm of the
afternoon light. It sounded to him far continuous thunder, as if the blue horizon rodase by
invisible storm.

The count broke off his conversation in German to speak to Desnoyers, who seemed interested
by the noise.

- Is the barrel. Has been engaged in a battle. Soon go into dance.

The possibility of having to abandon their property, the more comfortable
he had found in Throughout his campaign, put in a bad mood.

- War!
- Continued -.

A glorious life, but dirty and brutish. In a month, today is the first day I live as a man.

And as if he would appeal the amenities that would leave soon, he rose, turning the castle.
Two Germans marched into town, and Desnoyers was with the other, busy admired his taste in liquor.
It was the battalion commander stationed in Villeblanche.

- Sad war, sir! "- Said in French.

The entire group of enemies, this was the only one who had inspired
a feeling Don Marcelo vague attraction.

"While it is a German, looks good person", I thought seeing him. Should have been obese in
peacetime, but now offered outside of a loose, straight body who has just suffered a loss
of volume. Hinted at in a previous life of quiet and vulgar sensuality, a bourgeois that the
war had cut roughly.

- What a life, sir - he went -. May God punish those who caused this catastrophe.

Desnoyers was almost moved.

Germany saw that he had imagined many times: Germany quiet, sweet,
clumsy burghers and heavy, but they compensated for their original
rudeness with an innocent and poetic sentiment.

This Blumhardt, whom his fellows termed "Bataillon Kommandeur, was a good father. It represented
him walking with his wife and children under the linden trees a provincial square, listening
to all religious anointing with the melodies of a band military. Then I saw the beer with friends,
discussing metaphysical problems between two business conversations.

He was the man of old Germany, a character in a novel Goethe. Perhaps the glories of the Empire
had modified his existence, and instead of going Brewery to frequent the casino of the officers,
while his family stood apart isolated from civilians, the pride of
the military caste, but in the background was always Good German,
of patriarchal, ready to shed tears at a family scene or a piece of
good music.

Blumhardt commander remembered his people, who lived in Cassel.

- Eight children, sir - he said with a visible effort to contain his excitement -. The two major
prepare to be official. The child goes to school from this year ... So.

And he pointed with one hand the height of his boots. He trembled nervously laughing and grief
to remind your child. He then made a compliment to his wife, excellent head of household, mother
modesty is sacrificed for her children, her husband. Oh, the sweet Augusta! ... Twenty years of
marriage were passed, and worshiped as the day they were first time. Kept in a pocket of his
uniform all the letters she had written from the beginning of the
campaign.

- See it, sir ... These are my children.

He took from his breast a silver medallion adorned with art of Munich, and touching a spring
the was opened in rounds, like the leaves of a book, revealing the faces of all family: Kommandeur
Frau, a rigid, austere beauty, imitating the gesture and hair the
Empress, then daughters, Fraulin Kommandeur, dressed in white, eyes
sing high like a romance, and eventually the children with school
uniforms army or private institutions.

And to think he could lose to these loved ones with only a piece
of iron touch him!

... And had to live away from them now that was good season, the
time of the walks in the countryside!

...

- Sad war! - He repeated -. May God punish the English.

In an application moved by Don Marcelo made him turn to questions about his family. It is pity
to learn what their offspring was little, smiled a little at the
enthusiasm with the old man spoke of his daughter, Chichi saluted
like an imp Fraulin funny, put apologetic gesture knowing that the
son had taken great trouble with his behavior.

Nice Commander! ... It was the first man that was sweet man in hell
of the invasion.

"Everywhere there are good people," he said. He wished not to move the castle. If they were
to continue there the Germans had better have him than to others.

An orderly came to call Don Marcelo from His Excellency. Earl found in own room, after passing
through the rooms with closed eyes to avoid the pain a useless anger. The doors were forced, non-carpeted
floors, the holes without curtains. Only the broken furniture at first took their old places.
The bedrooms had been ransacked more methodically, disappearing only
what was not immediately useful.

The have stayed in them the day before the general with his entourage had escaped a wanton
destruction.

The count received him with the courtesy of a gentleman who wishes
to attend to your guests.

No Desnoyers could consent to Herr, parent of a von Hartrott - who vaguely remembered have
seen in court - he lived in a room with the porters. Should take their bedroom, that bed solemn
as a coffin, with plumes and columns, which had the honor hours prior to serving a famous general
of the Empire.

- I'd rather sleep here. The other room goes better with my tastes.

He entered the bedroom of Ms. Desnoyers, admiring his unfurnished Louis XV, a authenticity beautiful,
with muted golds and landscapes of his upholstery obscured by time.

It was one of the best buys of Don Marcelo. The Count smiled with contempt artist to remind the
head of the Administration official in charge of plunder.

"What an ass! ... To think that this has been left by old and ugly ... "

Then he looked in front of the owner of the castle.

- Mr Desnoyers: I did not commit any impropriety, and I even imagine that I play their wishes,
to express that I'll take the furniture myself. Will be a reminder of our knowledge, a testament
to our friendship that begins now ... If this is here runs danger of being destroyed. Warriors
are not required to be artists. I will keep these Prices in Germany, and you can see them anytime.
Now we're all going to be some ... My friend proclaimed emperor of the French sovereign.

Desnoyers was silent. What could respond to the gesture of cruel irony,
to look that the great lord was emphasizing his words?

...

- When the war will send a gift of Berlin - patronizing tone he added.

Neither answered the old man. I looked on the walls the void left several paintings small. They
were famous masters of the eighteenth century. He also despised the commissioner ought to have
by insignificant. Count a slight smile revealed his true whereabouts.

He had searched the entire piece, the room immediately, which was to Chichi, the fourth bathroom,
to the female wardrobe of the family, who retained, some dressed as Miss Desnoyers. The warrior's
hands were lost in the fine pleasure of studs fabrics, soft appreciating their freshness.

This contact made him think of Paris, in fashion, in the homes of
the great couturiers.

Rue de la Paix was the most admired by him in his visits to the enemy city.

Don Marcelo felt a strong mixture of perfumes that exhaled his head,
his mustache, all your body.

Several bottles of toiletries for ladies were on fire.

- What dirty war! - --- German said.

This morning I could take a bath, after a week of abstinence afternoon to take another ... By
the way, dear sir, these perfumes are good, but not elegant. When you have the pleasure of being
introduced to the ladies, I will give the address of my vendors ...
I use in my house essences of Turkey: I have many friends there ...
After the war I will make a delivery to the family.

His eyes were fixed on some portraits placed on a table. The count
guesses Madame Desnoyers saw the picture of Dona Luisa. Then he smiled
at the portrait of Chichi. Very funny: what he most admired about
her was her air of determination as a boy. Posed a glance broader
and deeper picture of July.

- Excellent waiter - he said -. An interesting
head ... art. In a costume ball would a success. What Persian prince!
... A white aigrette subject's head with a jewel, the bare chest,
a black tunic with gold turkeys ...

He continued wearing the eldest
son of Desnoyers imagination with all the splendors of an Eastern
monarch. The old man felt a principle of sympathy for the man by the
interest he felt for his son. Too bad they chose with such skill and
precious things they are appropriate! ...

At the head of the bed,
on a prayer book forgotten by his wife, saw a medallion with another
picture. This was not the house. The count, who had followed the direction
his eyes, wanted to show it. Shook the hands of the warrior ... His
haughty disdain é ironic suddenly disappeared. An officer of Hussars
of Death was smiling in the picture, collapsing thin and curved profile
of a fighting bird under his cap adorned with a skull and two femurs.

-
My best friend - "His voice was somewhat shaky -. Being that I love
in the world ... And to think that perhaps bat at the moment and can
kill you! ... I also think I can die! ...

Don Marcelo felt a novel
of the last glimpse of the count. He was undoubtedly Hussar an illegitimate
child. Its simplicity could not conceive otherwise. Only in his tenderness
was a father able to speak well ... And he was almost caught by this
tenderness.

Here the interview ended. The warrior was turned away,
leaving the bedroom, as if to hide his emotions. A few minutes sounded
on the floor beneath a magnificent grand piano that the commissioner
had not been carried by the opposing general. The voice of it rose
over the sound of the strings. Baritone voice was somewhat opaque,
but tremor communicated his passionate romance. The old man was shocked,
did not understand words, but the Tears welled in his eyes. He thought
of his family, misfortune and dangers that surrounded him, the difficulty
of finding his men ... As if Pulling music from him, dropped little
by little on the ground floor. Which artist man haughtily mockery!
What his soul! ... The Germans were deceiving at first sight with
its rough exterior and their discipline, they did not scruple committing
the worst atrocities. Had to live intimately with them to appreciate
such as they were. 

When the music stopped on the bridge of the castle.
An officer watching developments of swans in the waters of the moat.
He was a young doctor in law who acted as secretary about His Excellency,
a University man mobilized for war.

In talking with Don Marcelo immediately
revealed their origin. I was surprised by the order of starting to
be a teacher at a private school and before marriage. All plans had
been undone.

- What a calamity, sir ... What disorder to the world!
... And yet, we were many we saw reach the disaster. Must inevitably
occur some day or other. Capitalism: damn capitalism is to blame.

The
officer was a socialist