 Thank you very much, sir: he admired his charity,
but starve rather than accept a coin of Dupont.

A few days after drain Fermin, saw the arrival of his godson Rafael. Was without attachment:
had left the farmhouse.

Fermin came to tell who was in Gibraltar, and that one day those to be shipped to South America.

-
Also you - said the old man sadly - Cursed've been bitten by the
bug, which poisons us a toos.

The strapping young man was sad, discouraged.

Talking to the old man in the door of the hut, looked in with some trepidation, as if fearing
the appearance of Maria de la Luz. On the run to the mountains, Fermin had told all ... everything.

-
Oh, Godfather! And what gorp dao me! I think I'll die ... And poer revenge! Moving sinvergüensa
this world, without my metiese a stab!

Poer not get back to resuscitate pa to kill you ... Burlao many times will the thief, seeing
made a fool, not knowing what happened! ...

In its strong male sadness, what he was desperate absurdity of their situation, to serve man. He
cried because his hand was not the executing of vengeance.

No longer wanted to work. What was to be good? Would return to life of smuggling. Women? ... for
awhile, and then treat them like beasts beats shameless and heartless ... I wanted to declare
war on half the world, the rich, and the governors, who instilled fear with their rifles, and were
the cause of the poor were trampled by the powerful.

Now that the poor people of Jerez walked mad with terror, and worked in the field without raising
eyes on the ground, and the jail was full, and many who once wanted to swallow it whole would
mass to avoid suspicion and persecution, it now began. Iban to see what beast rich were thrown
into the world by destroying one of them his dreams.

The contraband was to entertain. Later, when harvesting crops, worn fire to the barns, farmhouses
incendiary, poison the cattle from the pastures. The who were in prison, awaiting the moment of
execution, Juanon, the Maestrico and other unfortunates who die in
a club, they would have an avenger.

If he found men with enough heart to follow, would make a game of
horse leaving a child at the breast to José María Tempranillo.

For something he knew the mountains. They could prepare the rich. Channel open in the bad,
and could only be saved by giving good money to the poor.

Exaltabo to vent his anger with these threats. He spoke of becoming a robber, with childhood enthusiasm
from riders rustic feel for the road adventurers.

For him, every man offense could only seek his revenge by becoming a thief.

- I kill you - still - but before I die, tell me, Godfather, I will
have acabao with half Jerez.

And the old man, who partook of the same concerns as the waiter nodded. Did well. If he young and
strong, would have a companion in the game.

Rafael did not return. Fleeing from the devil put him in front of Maria de la Luz. Seeing her,
could kill or could lie to mourn as a child.

From time to time, came in search of some old gypsy Fermín, a backpacker
those who sold in cafes and casinos, his meager load of snuff.

-
Grandpa, this is for you ... On behalf of Rafah.

It was money that he sent the smuggler and the old man gave his daughter
silent.

The boy never showed up. From time to time appeared in Jerez, and that was enough to the Goat and
other acolytes of the late Dupont, were hiding in their houses, preventing the display in taverns and
cafes frequented by the smugglers. He came with bowed Cain, and kept them dislike for his former
friendship with the Master!

And is not that they had fear. They were brave ... but city and would not be measured with a raw,
which is passed the week sleeping in the mountains with wolves.

Mr. Fermín let time pass was insensitive to his surroundings, to As was said about him.

One day, the sad silence of the city took out a few hours of their annihilation. Iban a garrote
five men for the invasion of Jerez. The process had gone quickly: the punishment was an urgent
need for good people calmed down.

The entry of workers rebels bulged the course of time, as a revolution full of horrors. The fear made
mute. The same people who had been marching strikers without any attempt to hostility in front
of the houses of the rich, quietly accepted the unprecedented punishment.

They spoke of two dead that night, joining the gentleman drunk with the unhappy writer. Fermín
Montenegro was being chased by homicide, the process was still apart, but nothing lost society
to exaggerate the events, putting one more death on account of the revolutionaries.

Many were sentenced to prison. The statement shed chains with a bounty frightening about the
wretched herd, which seemed to wonder in amazement what he had done at night. Of those sentenced
to death, two were the murderers of the young man desktop: the other three were the class of dangerous
ordeal, for talk, threaten, to believe fiercely that the world had
a right to a share of happiness.

Many people's eyes twinkle mischievously, knowing that the Madrid, the originator of the entry
in the city, only went to prison for some years. Juanon and his comrade expected Trebujena resigned
last ordeal. They did not want to live, I was disgusting life after the bitter disappointments
of the famous night. The Maestrico opened his eyes in amazement maiden
candid, as to resist believing in the evil of men.

They needed his life because he was a be dangerous because the utopia dreamed that the wisdom
of the pass to be less the vast mass of unhappy, as an instrument
of redemption!

And poet without knowing him, his mind, locked in tough shell, spread with the fire of faith,
consoling anxiety of his last moments with the hope that others came pushing back, as he said,
and that these others would eventually run over by all the force of the quantity, as the drops
of water that form the flood. They killed because they were few.

One day be so many that strong, tired of killing, terrified by the immensity of his task bloody, end
up and discouraged, giving up.

Mr. Fermin did not see from this torture more than the silence of
the city, which looked embarrassed, the gesture of fear of the poor
cowardly submission speaking of lords.

A few days forgot all about this event.

A letter came to his hands was his son, of Fermin. I was in Buenos Aires and I wrote showing
some confidence in its future. The early days were tough, but in those lands, with work and
perseverance, was almost certain victory, and he is confident to march forward.

Since then, Mr. Fermin was occupied and shook the morass in which he had sunk pain. Wrote to his son
and waited for his letters. How far it was! If he could go there! ...

Another day he waved a new surprise. Sitting in the sun, at the door of his house, saw the shadow
of a man still with him. He raised his head and screamed.

Don Fernando! ... It was his idol, good Salvatierra, but aged, more sad, his eyes behind his
glasses off blue, as if thoroughly weighed on him all the evils and inequities of the city. 

He
had been released, let him live freely, knowing, without doubt, find anywhere a corner to make
its nest, that his words would be lost without echo in the silence of terror.

To occur at Jerez, old friends fled from him, not wanting to commit.

Other looked at him with hatred, as if from his forced exile was responsible for all events.

But
Mr. Fermin, a former comrade, it was not them. Al joined him, falling in his arms, the rattle of
the strong to drown without being able to mourn.

- Oh, Don Fernando!

... Don Fernando! ...

Salvatierra consoled him. He knew everything. Valor! He was a victim of social corruption, against
thundered that he and his burning of sage. He could still start new life, followed by theirs.
The world is big. Where his son found that there could also look for him.

And some mornings Salvatierra returned to visit his old partner. Suddenly, you missed. They said
sometimes it was in Cadiz, Seville others, wandering through the land of Andalusia, who kept
the memories of their heroism and generosity, the remains of only
being whose love had sweetened its existence.

I could not live in Jerez. The powerful eyes watching him challenge, as if they were to throw
on him he fled the poor, avoiding treatment.

Another month passed. One evening, Maria de la Luz hovering at the door of his house, believed to fall
the ground vanished. He shook his legs, ringing in the ears, all his blood seemed flow into wave
burning his face and removed later, leaving a pale green ... Rafael
was there, wrapped in his blanket, as if waiting.

She tried to flee, escape in the most remote of the hut.

- Maria de la Lu! ... Mariquilla! ...

It was the same sweet and appealing tone that seen in the fence, not
knowing how, she became their steps, approaching timidly, fixing his
eyes teary in the eyes of his former boyfriend.

He too was sad. A melancholy gravity seemed to give a certain elegance, refined outside his rough
fighter.

- Maria de la Lu - Two little words whispered .-- nothing more. You love me and I love you. What
for spend the rest of life rage, as some unhappy? ... Until recently, it was so gross that I
would see dao temptations to kill you. But I talked to Don Fernando and I was convinced with his
wisdom. This is over.

And he said with a wave of energy. It is just the separation, no more stupid jealousy a wretch that
had to rise and she had not wanted, it had a grudge a misfortune which he had no fault.

Flee from there. He despised the land so deeply that it would not even hurt. Leave was the best,
put them between her and many miles of land, many miles water. The distance will erase the bad
memories. Not seeing the city, not seeing their fields, completely forget the sadness that there
had been.

They would go in search of Fermin. He had money for the trip of all. The recent smuggling had been
fat, crazy, astounding in its audacity to the job: endless droves roads through the mountains, under
his gun. He had not been killed, and good fate gave new courage to undertake the long journey
that would change his life.

Knew the young world, and he would, his wife, his godfather and himself. Don Fernando had described
this paradise. Endless bands of wild horses, who were expecting educators legs Rider, huge tracts
of land without an owner, no tyrant, awaiting the hand of man to expel the budding life in
her womb. What better for a farmer Eden game and strong, a slave until then, body and soul of
those who do not work! ...

They would be free and happy in the countryside, where the wildness
and loneliness had kept a piece of clean world of the crimes of civilization,
the selfishness of men; where everything belonged to everyone, but
no other privilege than the work, where the land was pure as air and
the sun and was not disgraced by the monopoly, or torn and degraded
by the cry of "This is mine ... and others to perish from hunger.

"

And this wild life, but free and happy, reharía with forgetting the
virginity of their souls.

       Would be new beings, innocent and industrious, as if just born of
the slime of the earth.

The grandfather shut his eyes staring at the sun, safe in the back that does his duty to land where
it came from, also close them when they arrived on time, loving until
the last moment, and their graves continue the work of work and freedom
their children and grandchildren, happier than they, ignorant of the
cruelties of the ancient world thinking about the idle rich and cruel
lords, as do children in monsters and ogres of the stories.

Maria de la Luz listened moved. Run away from there! Left back so many memories! ... Live the
miserable that had caused the ruin of his family, would persist in his obstinacy simple woman.
She could not be otherwise than that he stole her virginity. But since the thief was dead,
and Rafael, who did not want to deceive accepted generously the situation,
forgive her, accepted everything ... Yes, flee away, as soon as possible!

...

The strapping young man continued to expose their plans. Don Fernando was responsible for convincing
the old man, also give him letters to his friends in America. Fifteen days before embarking on
Cadiz. Run away, flee as soon as a land of scaffolds, where the guns were on a mission to
placate hunger, and he took the poor rich life, honor and happiness! ...

- When we get - continued Rafael - be my wife. Repeat our discussions
of gate.

Better yet. Extremaré my love pa do not think that is in me no bitter memory. Everything happened.
Don Fernando Tié reason. The shame of the body are in little ... Love is what matters, the rest
are concerns for animals.

Your little heart is mine? and therefore I have everything ... Maria de la Lu! Gun classmate!
We will march towards the sun now really born, today begins our love.

Let me kiss you for the first time in my life. Hold me, companion: I see you're mine, you'll
support my strength, my support when you start fight down there ...

And the two young men embraced at the entrance of the hut, gathering their mouths without any dither
carnal passion, staying a long time together, as if the scandal despise people, as if to defy the
fuss his love of an old world that they would leave.

* * * * *

Salvatierra accompanied in Cadiz to the scale of the liner to his comrade, Mr. Fermin crossing
over to the new world, to Rafael and Maria de la Luz.

Cheers No longer meet again.

The world is too big for the poor, always fixed in the same place by the roots of the need.

Salvatierra felt swallowing tears. All his friends, his memories of his past, desvanecíanse
scattered by the death or misfortune.

He stayed alone in a village he had tried to free and no longer knew him. The younger generation
looked at him as a madman who inspired some interest in their asceticism, but did not understand
his words.

A few days after the departure of these friends, out of retirement to go to Cadiz Jerez. He
called a dying man, a comrade in the good times.

Mr. Matacardillos, the owner of the tavern's Rook is definitely dying.

His family implored the visit of the revolutionary, seeing in his presence one last ray of joy
to the patient. "Now is really, don Fernando" escribíanle children. And Don Fernando went to
Jerez, and began to walk the path of Matanzuela, who had followed that path at night in different
direction, after the body of a gypsy.

When he reached the tavern he knew his friend had died a few hours earlier.

It was a Sunday afternoon. Inside, in the only room in the hut, lay over a poor bed the bloated
corpse, no other company that flies that hovered over his face purple.

Outside,

the widow and children, with the resignation of a disgrace luenga waiting half Drinking and attended
to parishioners sitting in the vicinity of the tavern.

The Matanzuela Winning drank, forming a large circle. Don Fernando, standing at the door of the
hut, watching the vast plain, without a man, not a beast, with the monotonous solitude Sunday.

He felt alone, completely alone.

Had lost the last of the companions of his youth revolutionary. Of those who had been shot in
the mountains and faced death or prison by the romance of the revolution, there were none
at his side.

Some fled in desperate race across the sea, spurred by poverty, others rotted in the heart of
the land without the consolation of seeing the Justice and Equality to reign over men.

What's efforts useless! Many sacrifices sterile! ... And the legacy of both work seemed lost forever!
The new generation unaware of the old, refused to receive from his arms, exhausted and weak,
the burden of hatred and hope.

Salvatierra watched with sadness the group of workers. Do not know or pretended not to know.
Not one had set eyes on it.

They talked about the great tragedy that still seemed to have under
their grim burden from the people of Jerez: the implementation of
the five day laborers for the nighttime entry into the city. But speaking
peacefully, without passion, without hatred, as if these were the
executions of bandits surrounded by the famous populist aura.

Only
showed some eagerness to see the value that had died, the gesture
that will escorted to the gallows. Trebujena Juanon and had gone to
bat for what they were: as men incapable of fear or bravado. The other
two murderers had died as a gross. And the memory of them poor Maestrico
almost two real, but two and a half real and attributed this increase
to its submission and discipline. "Being good, you will draw more
than the bad ', I had said. And they repeated it, thinking evil sneer
at rioters trying to drag them into rebellion. Being obedient and
humble, perhaps eventually, with time to collect three reals. A true
happiness ...

The farmhouse Matanzuela what looked like a paradise.
Dupont was the charitable generosity unprecedented. Ensure that the
braceros should hear Mass on Sundays, and from month to month, organized
Communion for the farmhands. Those who in days of idleness were not
home, staying in the farm to keep the religious discussions of a priest
sent from Jerez, had by pm at the tavern, a few drinks paid by the
master.

Dupont was a modern believer, as he said. All roads were
good to get the conquest of souls.

And the laborers, as Zarandillo
confession, "were left wanting," prayed and drank Snooping a bit of
love with mock gravity, and calling him "cousin."

The long stay of
Zarandillo by Salvatierra, and curiosity that inspired it, eventually
overcome the departure of the farmhands. Some were close, and little
by little forming a ring around the rebel. 

One of the oldest spoke
with sarcastic tone. If Don Fernando was in the field to drop harangues
as in other times, wasting time. People were scaled: it was like a
scalded cat the proverb. Not that the farmhands were fine. It was
live, but worse were the those who had poor execution at Jerez.

-
Old - continued that rustic philosopher - even some that you have
your market and of his time. We know that not getting rich with his
sermons and many others, we know who have suffered and they are very
hard tragao ... But look at its market to kids.

He pointed to those
who had been sitting no closer to Salvatierra, all young. From time
to time looked to revolutionary insolent eyes. "A guy a liar, like
all those presenting in search of workers! Those who had followed
their doctrines rot land in the cemetery, and he was there ... Less
sermons and more wheat ... "They were ready, had seen enough to learn
and were with the giver. True friend the poor was the master with
his wages, and if you gave up wine, the better. Besides, what could
caring about the fate of workers at that guy who dressed gentleman,
but as a threadbare a beggar, and had no calluses on their hands?
What he wanted was to live at their expense, a liar like so many others.

Salvatierra
guess these thoughts in hostile eyes