 What would he said
and what of us? ... And while not squeezing the thing, how soon are good friends?

- Well, look - he said to bed hugging Don Celso - what is it you do not forgive.

- Bah, bah! - The aforementioned thrashing grumbled a bit - do not
break my head.

You can JACER what suits you, well I know what I did.

- Jinojo! - Said Don Sabas - is that the courtesy that was such that if not now topo mesmo with
Neluco, blessed day passes without me to know what happened to you last night.

I intervened, desenojé the Priest, he remained alone with my uncle and continue the others around
brazier, as before, talk talk, on "last night" over "what happened yesterday" and even on certain
promises made by me to my interlocutors that the day was known, eat at home any time; promise
was still unfulfilled, because it noticeable from the hectic life he led uphill and downhill,
if not the fierce temporary I had locked the house. At noon came Neluco, not found in the patient
nothing special or new, nor wanted to enter the plea I made to stay and eat us pray for his
part, I was rebuffed and the Cure. Then they went both together after prescribing first aid plan
for the evening, and to avert the second to that for any reason or human courtesy we fail to
notify the minor novelty Lita and her mother returned to the bedroom of the patient to weigh
the improvement noticed in he (and God knows how knowingly lied in their weights), and give
Mari Pepa few sips of milk while his daughter arranged the bedclothes
and women entering gray lounge set the table near the hearth, and
little time we sat down to eat.

Eating and talking, I had to say, because I asked my talkative diners, what things were eaten by
the wealthy, and at what times, in "into the world again." All were astonished those women very
simple, and I perceived this, and I liked to speed up the note, and so I to ponder the exquisite
taste of frog legs and swallow nests, including distinguished and elegant junk food that I quoted.
And it was to see the face then Mari Pepa put and gestures of disgust
Lituca was looking at his mother and back at me to me, as if he doubted
the truth of what I meant.

- Pure vice daughter, pure pleasure -
said after Mari-Pepa -; pure pleasure of it jartura those living Genton,
of what God created.

As it was so bonded with each other, pulling out the way of eating lifestyle and mode of travel.
New fans and new amazement. Thesis also extremely well here, and even suspect that I lied a little,
but within the plausible and pardonable. Lo bed near dawn and rise after midday to stay at
home until the evening, I marveled as much as swallow nest soup and fried legs frog.

- Mary my Mother! - Lita cried upon hearing it - because if these
people never see ever the sun, so what is he can see the happy and
fattening?

I think that's living against the law.

- Vice, daughter, vice - insisted Mari Pepa -; habit of not knowing
what jacerse in a life so spoiled.

Lita asked me if I also had 'over there' these bad habits, I replied
that yes, and I said, all comments, with a truly naive and infantile
simplicity:

- Well, be good rascal you ... Right, mom?

I celebrated the saying with a laugh no less naive, then giving thanks
for the compliment, about the same time responding to the question
Mari Pepa:

- Who knows, daughter of soul, who knows?

Jaz who eat "nial" swallow unruptured of "doubt", you can jacerse to live that way without offending
God or break your health.

With the exception of his mother Lita was very red, and he wanted me he could amend like his
impertinence, and I, without leaving conclusion, paved the way for
your wishes offering it to boot a statement, not devoid of sincerity,
of my great disappointments.

- It would happen about now - I objected
Mari Pepa - when one was married, to live as God intended.

What the heck want to know and possible when they are lonely monsoon family open house? ...
Well, look, Don Marcelo, said that for these houses, close-knit they are, whenever the devil
has a key.

- You can have it - I said I was very formal - but in mine never entered.

- Jorrios, trapacerón of satanincas!

Released after the laughter, and dropped it while Lita. I help them with another, by the grace I did
both, and then began the "mince" and shootings that could not miss there, among the three. Because
these riddles are innate in women of all castes and latitudes; and put them all in the same
situation, all except the differences of place and style come to dig in the grounds and with
its own aims. Always initiatives and force of daring, the cunning and tenacity, the mother,
the subject studied, the ill-concealed curiosity, eloquent silence, looking sideways, the punctured
subtle, daughter. So the two came to take for granted that I would have had no less than fifty brides
nor would drop the remaining three in Madrid crying my absences and maybe my ingratitude. But if the
background scene was not new to me, éranlo, to fascinate, those quaint nuances of language, this
dialectic haphazardly, without scaffolding or rhetorical devices conventional sanotas those
sprouting from mischief palabreo joyful, spontaneous fresh, airy and transcending to 'land'
as the roses in the garden between the virginal and splendid litter fence that protects them.
So I felt in my soul that had just this highly original "discreteo." And Mari Pepa finally go to
my uncle who was coughing and complained, Lituca while at the same time he heard the moans and
coughs, I ordered shut by putting Dedina cute one on the mouth and Facia came to pick up the crumbs
and tablecloths the table.

XXIV

Soon passed my uncle, and spent two hours with no other noteworthy event in the big house and
beyond that a wet gale gusts that "blackened" a bit of snow, thing we filled all of complacency,
women less gray, as the signal phenomenon desnieve upcoming. Near dusk, when Mari Pepa and her
daughter picked up the respective Work and shook the rags clinging to clothing, and admonished the
'clouds' and shawls, saying the way to my uncle many jokes and cheer, and dripping carcasses
Snow Roof "melted" by the rain that was thickening, the doctor came again. Examined the sick,
and nothing particularly alarming or found in it to make fear a night like the past, but did
not dare to prometérnosla calmer, because everything could be in a bad breed disease in a
painful and helpless as crushed as my uncle. This me said apart after me, before Facia and
Mari Pepa, the campaign plan to the next day, subject to return it at the last minute, so that
might occur. The Lita's mother insisted on staying to watch much, but I did not consent, because
neither the patient has consented or would have sat well be the mere suspicion of it, with suspicious
and apprehensive that put darkness as were invading the bedroom. It was agreed that Facia ensure
that no Chisco and lie down to sleep I like hares, and It marched with Lita and her mother Neluco,
waving them "tomorrow" and "to then ', they fell in the dark and cold those dilapidated areas of
the house he grew up silence and darkness, and spent a long time, while women decorate the candlestick
gray, though I saw nothing around me that the dying embers dying from the ashes brazier, or heard
other rumors that the laborious work of breathing of my uncle the bottom of the chamber, and
the rhythmic and monotonous flow of the water-logged channels goterial.

When there was light in the room, I approached the bedside and spoke to desentristecerle a bit and
encourage him. Lost work. I intend very grateful, but he just knew all how bad it was and how
impossible it was out of this quagmire without a miracle God. I supposed overwhelmed by the
weight of my subjection to her assistance, and was determined to reassure with the promise that it would
not be long my captivity, I apologized for the bad times I was in the meantime, and I conjured
up again when I got my freedom, not take forgotten what I had prayed so, because the less was
he in that town, if there were those who the house occupied the position was left empty with his
death. I seem heavy and the subject; but this is what we demonstrate the importance he gave ...
All this, said between moans and panting pauses, his voice dull and deathly exhausted the light
of the oil lamp placed on the bureau, which only served to extreme cadaverous pallor of the patient,
including odors ether and rosemary, while the channels were flowing and grumbling the gale
outside, was very sad indeed. On the play of chance are often produced very curious contrasts jokes
that seem very heavy destination. On the dresser and under the burner ignition the candlestick,
had a stack of letters and newspapers that I had put there the night before to be entertained
with reading my long hours of sailing after that, after the asthma attack could sleep my uncle.
For most of those letters and those papers paper, were packed with news, reviews and trials planned
dances, receptions sumptuous new comedies in the halls and theaters in Madrid, as if everything
had been written for me out about it in such a timely opportunity.

The relapse of my uncle, the drop in temperature, with subsequent
clearing of paths and roads, and salsilla of "what happened yesterday"
the cocinona took a big hit that night of commentators.

TARUMBA attended to, which rarely went there, far more restless and frustration with the illness
of Don Celso and the stupidity of pepazo, that having been widened more of the same, with the
weight and the distillation of snow, which had its anchovy jastial home in the West. Pete
also attended Salces, who remained as pulseless when Tona, face awash with smiles and eyes of sweetness,
he praised the achievement of Eve and told him without qualms that "from this one and those
ready liked it men. " Puches, how to put away the mozallón with praise! If you do not restrain
with a compelling reflection and toss brunt of his lastic, make another atrocity there less
laudable that the mountain. I had never thought of it (I swore so intertwined fingers their
hands, those who were crossing) a thing "as jacedera and currienti" could assert many flows.
With the tough one who until then had been Tona! Geez, what kind yours! Thinking that is the envy
Chisco I remembered the discovery made by me Toper house in the heart of Tanasi and Fuila with
the story of Robacio the monsoon in a besides I had with him. I replied that I had taken a job
well idle, although I thanked him very much.

- Things - ended in the judgmental tone that was peculiar to him - pa shoot well, they jancia
roll with himself unu.

The man was the calmness and equanimity in the flesh, and the same pulse Bear in front of him
in his cave, which the warmth of the bride.

On behalf of my uncle, I often walked in the kitchen rather than do the honors the gathering,
to prevent him pundits will invade the bedroom. He loved; but could not bear on the plight of
body and spirit in which was. Thus, even without the doctor's strict prohibition would not have
wanted to receive any of them during the day. When they were saying goodbye to everyone, would
be different.

Late Don Sabas and Neluco arrived: the first determined to stay there, without being notice the
sick, please you have asked me if he had not anticipated offer me; the second to find out the
state of affairs before retiring. As such Things did not offer new or alarming aspect, said
goodbye to my uncle, and those with him we stayed at the house, and went with the last commentators,
one of whom was Pete, encountered with people, benches, doors and partitions, pure and foolish
that aceleradote had given him the praise and cuddles of Tona.

He spent the night better than we all expected, and the next day dawned without a cloud in heaven
or a puff of air on earth, and when the sun peaks transposed the East and greeted the valley
with its rays sparkled on the snow that had not broken the rain, my poor uncle sent them to
open wide the paneled his bedroom, as was not allowed to do the same with the doors and windows
to let in light and the air in the abundance that he needed to stay afloat in this sea of ??troubles
"that ajogaba him "because of the drawn mediquillo seemed determined to kill him. And indeed was
that if the body is not noticed anything more miracles of the panacea that so eagerly asked
the sick, was very large in spirit. It was "another man" from the sun had crept into his bedroom
and through the bars of a prison, and saw floating, dancing within the luminous band across the room
in front of his bed from the paneled window, the fluff and dust homeless. Not even the purpose of pointing
up, because they would not let the exhaustion of its forces, but believed in the possibility of
returning in the sun before they die, even sacándole in a basket to the laundry if it lasted
visage that while a few days.

And it lasted more than seven, and tuned in such terms and fixed the aging and confused my uncle's
machine so that, not in a basket, but rather sitting on the couch in cow your bedroom, well wrapped
and wrapped in blankets and coats, got be more than four "Bellyful of sun" outdoors in the warm
corner of the laundry, where I pulled him little unless in the air, the door of her bedroom,
between the storms of vows and oaths with protesting against "the
bitch acabación" that made him so miserable ends