 His jokes were coarse and vulgar as to be tolerated among people decent. Ever was
on the money, that is, had a happy occurrence, but as a rule Generally, their pleasantry were
pure and shameless smoothly.

The gathering, however, rejoiced at its entry.

A happy smile spread over all faces, less than Ramon.

- Listen, Calderón - came in saying, without saying goodbye -.

How do you manage to always have raised so handsome?

... One of them, the entry, with the little light there was and the voice mezzo-soprano that
I spent, I have mistaken for a girl.

- Man, no! - The banker exclaimed,
laughing.

- Man, yeah!

I do not care about anything that you bring all you like .... Romeos
Does it come Pinney friend here?

Those who understood where I was going to stop, they were almost all
laughed.

- It's coming!

Not coming! - Calderon said almost choking with laughter.

- What are you laughing? - Pacita asked in a low to Esperanza.

- I do not know - she replied with a tone of sincerity, with a shrug.

- Sure Cobo says a lot.

I'll ask him then that will not stop Julia have caught.

Both the hearing turned into the largest of Alcudia and were motionless, rigid, his eyes low
as ever.

At the corner of his lips, however, a slight smirk wandered that showed no sister unreasonably
trusted in their deep knowledge.

- Hello, Ramoncillo - approaching
said Maldonado and slapping him on the cheek with familiarity -.

Guapote and ever so seductive.

These words were spoken in tone between affectionate and ironic, which sat very bad girl.

- Not as much as you ... but anyway, we pull - Ramon said.

- No, no, you're more handsome .... And if you say these girls ....
A little skinny you are, especially from a season ago, but it will
fold as soon as you pass it.

- Do not have to spend anything ....
I know I'll never be as many pounds as you - said rougher.

- Well,
you have more weeds.

- There we go, boy, do not come from Fanciullo
echándotelas because it is very cheesy, especially front of these
girls.

- But man, you always have to be scolded! - Pepa Frias said -.

You end up soon to fight, because the two do not fit in the world.

- Where no room for two - he said under Pinedo - is Calderon's home.

-
Not at all - said Cobo light, playful tone -.

The friends are the best odds friends. Right, Barbie?

At the same time, Ramon took the lead with both hands and shook it warmly. This turned him
down in a bad mood.

- Remove, remove, do not be Sobon.

Cobo and Maldonado were close friends. They had known since childhood. They had been together
in the College of San Antón. After the company continued to maintain close relations, mainly in
the Savage Club, where both devoted themselves. As both pursuing the same profession, to walk
on foot, by car and horse, as both attended the same houses and were every day everywhere, confidence
was boundless. He had always made between them, however, a graceful aggression as despised Ramon
Cobo, And he who guessed, under constant guard. This hostility did not exclude affection. They
said a thousand outrages fought for hours, but immediately went out together drive as if nothing
had happened, and cited for the time of the theater. Maldonado took Cobo things seriously. This
is enjoyed in to contradict as saying, until I was getting irritating,
to put it off though.

But the affection disappeared as both put eyes on the girl Calderón.

There was more than hostility.

Their relationship seemed to were the same; reuníanse at the club daily, often walked together,
went to hunt Pardo as before. At bottom, however, and cordially hated. Behind said dirty tricks
on each other; Cobo more gracefully, of course, Ramon, because he
was, founded or unfounded, a real contempt.

- Come on, what's wrong
with you that my daughter and her husband ....-- Frias said.

- Not
so much!

Rather, Pepa! - Ramírez stopped affecting shock.

- But what a scoundrel you are, man! - Said it trying to contain the laughter that not fit your
typical grumpy -. It appears that you are always nagging and making peace.

And he began to describe with enough grace the married life of her daughter. The same is it that
the husband were a couple of kids cuddly, unbearable. Asked if he had not passed dish on time
or had poured water into the cup on the buttons of his shirt, or no brushed clothing, or the
salad had too much oil, reeds arming monstrous. The Both were also susceptible and fussy. Sometimes
he would spend six or eight days without speaking. To understand the necessities of life and
wrote little notes in them trying to you -. "Assumption has passed me a message telling me to come
at eight o'clock to take me to theater. Do you mind going? "- She wrote the letter on leaving
his desk -. "You can go wherever you like" - he responded the same procedure -. "What dishes do
you want for tomorrow?" Do you like your tongue in scarlet ?"--" Too you know not as language.
Do me the favor of telling the cook to bring some fish but no anchovies
like the other day, and not so cold tortillas.

"Neither wanted to humiliate the other. So, this tension ridiculously stretched until it Pepa,
grab them by the ears, I said four fresh and forced them to shake
hands.

Then, in the reconciliations, were extreme.

- Do you know, Pepa, I would not want to be there at the time of reconciliation?
- Said Cobo again flaunting its brutal malignancy.

- Neither do I,
son - answered with a sigh of resignation that made me laugh -.

But what does you!

I'm the mother, which is the last thing you can be in this world,
and I have that penance and many others that you do not know.

- Me
the figures.

- They can not you appear.

- Well, dear, I'd love to
see my children reconciled.

Nothing is more ugly marriage odds - said Mariana blessed his word slow, dragged, lymphatic
woman.

- I too ... but after passing reconciliation - Pepa said, exchanging glances smiling with Cobo
Ramirez Pinedo.

- Which I gladly I will reconcile with you, Mariana, just as those guys! - Said in a low voice the
general syrupy Patiño, seizing the moment in Calderón's wife leaned over to poke the fire with an iron-nickel.
At the same time as attempting to retrieve so she will not be disturbed, his fingers touched, and
can even be said, without betraying the truth, general than the soft
oppressed the lady quickly.

- Reconcile! - Said it natural voice -.

For that we need rather be angry and, thank God, we are not.

The old philanderer dared not reply. Rio forcibly, restless glancing Calderón. If you insisted,
that Panfila was able to repeat aloud the bold phrase they had just said.

- Of course - followed Pepa - which I'll get as little as possible in their quarrels. Or I just
for your home. Ugh! Crispa Me doing the role of mother!

- For me, Pepa, you want it to be my mother - Cobo said, looking into
her eyes greedily.

- Well, I tell my daughter, to thank him.

- No,
if not for his daughter!

... It's because ... I would like you to metiese in my stuff.

- Bah, bah! you let music - half Frias replied angrily.

A hint of a smile to her lips folded proclaimed, however, that the phrase had flattered.

Ramon took out the conversation of the Royal Theatre, the rabbit comes out and runs all distinguished
gatherings of the court. The opera, for subscribers, not a hobby, but an institution. Not the love
of music, however, that engenders this constant concern, but not having anything better to occupy
them. For Ramon Maldonado, Calderon's wife and many others, human beings are divided into
two species: Real theater subscribers and non subscribers. The first are the ones that really
express in a perfect way the essence of humanity.

Gayarre and Tosti were placed again discussion. Those who had arrived recently gave their views
on both merit and on the physical layout of the two singers.

Ramon began to have whispered to Esperanza Peace and last night had been submitted to Tosti in
his dressing room. "A very nice woman, very thin. He had received an amazing grace and kindness.
I had heard much of it, of Ramon, and had yearnings to know him personally. When he learned
he was a councilman, was amazed by the youth who had come to that position. You see that nonsense!
Apparently, in other countries are used to select only the old ones.

Up close it was even better than from afar. A satin skin that looks, a beautiful teeth, then an
arrogant figure, the chest lifted and arms !..."

Ramon was a vanity not only clumsy, it is well known rule that when
courting a woman should not boast too much heat to another, but a
bold heading tantico girls.

These looked smiling, shining eyes and mocking malicious fire not
observe the young councilman.

- And tell you Ramon, would not you
said it? - Pacita asked.

- Not yet - taking over and said the intention
of mocking the question.

- But they declare.

- Nor.

I'm already in love with another woman. At the same time sent a faint
peek Esperanza.

This became suddenly serious.

- Really?

Tell you ... tell you.

- It's a secret

- Well, but we will keep it .... Hope Is not you say nothing?

And the skinny girl looked at her friend maliciously rejoicing in
his ill-humor and the Ramon concern.

- I have no desire to know anything.

-
I hear you, Ramon.

Hope has no desire to hear about their girlfriends.

I well know what, but do not say ....

- How stupid are you, girl! - Said that with real anger.

The youth council was flattered by such warning came from a close friend. Believed, however, I
had to change the conversation in order not to spoil his claim, because
Esperanza looked serious and grim.

- I do not believe it's so hard
you plead to Tosti and she says yes .... And if not ... why do you
have to Pepe Castro, who can attest to what I say.

- Pepe Castro
is not you - Calderón said the girl with marked indifference.

Maldonado fell from the sky region where they rocked. That sentence
said scornfully stabbing came to the soul.

Fully because the superiority of Castro Pepe was one of the few truths which imposed a so invincible spirit.
Could offer objections to Homer, but that of Johnny, no. Safety can not ever reach, much as he imitated,
the sublime degree of elegance, carelessness, contempt and disgust value of all creation, which
characterized his admired friend, humiliated him, made him unhappy. Esperanza had finger in
the wound that sapped his precious life. Could not answer, such was his emotion.

Clementina was sad and restless. Since he had entered the house of
his sister, sought pretext to leave.

But it was. Was forced to resign some time to elapse. Minutes seemed centuries. Had chatted a few
moments with the Marquise de Alcudia, but she had left as he entered his father Ortega. His sister
was abducted by the general Patino he carefully explained how to raise the nightingales in cages.
The two girls Alcudia next to him looked like wax, rigid, stiff, answering in monosyllables
a few questions that went. A deaf irritation was coming over gradually from it. Given his
temperament, not many minutes had passed throw shooting all ruthlessly and take off sharply.
Alas at the name of Pepe Castro raised his head strongly and began to listen with avid attention.
The reluctance of a sudden put Ramoncito pale. However recovered immediately, and, entering
the conversation with a friendly smile, said:

- Go, go, Ramon, lest you bad language .... Poor women in the mouth of you!

- Do not speak ill but that he deserves, Clementina - said it encouraged by the cable that unexpectedly
received.

- In all you speak.

I think your friend Pepe Castro is not that they bite language to break through the ground
an honor.

- Clementine, so far I have not caught behind no lie. Madrid knows it all man good luck with women.

-
I do not know what - he replied with a gesture of disdain the lady.

-
I'm not smart in the beauty of men - said the boy laughing his sentence
- but everyone says that Johnny is cute.

- Ps!

... Will be according to individual taste ... and Pacita excuse me, that is a relative. I am
part of those all and do not say.

- The truth is - Esperanza said sheepishly - that Johnny does not
go through ugly .... Then, it is elegant and distinguished, do not
you?

And he turned to Pacita, while getting slightly red.

Clementina gave him a piercing look of blushing ended.

- What are you talking about? - Asked Cobo Ramirez approaching the circle.

Almost never sat in the gatherings. Le board walk from group to group,
panting like a ox, releasing some bold in each sentence.

The face of Ramon clouded the approach its rival.

This did not fail to notice and gave him a quizzical look.

- Come on, Ramoncillo, say, how you manage to be so lively at the
ladies?

I just Pepa say that you are casting genius.

- No, man, how I miss him if you have it all? - Councilman angrily
uttered.

- Oh, boy, if you randomly as I approach, I go.

A wry smile, bitter and triumphant at the same time, delayed the angular
face of Ramon.

He had caught his enemy into the trap. It should be known that accidentally found out a few days before,
by an academic language, which did not say random, but embarrassed.

-
Dear Cobo - said leaning back in his chair and staring intently mocking
-.

Before to talk among educated people, I think you should learn the
Castilian .... Say ... I think ....

- Why?

"- Asked the other surprise.

- You do not say random, but embarrass, beloved Cobo. I'll participate for your satisfaction and
consequent effects.

Ramon's attitude as he uttered these words was so arrogant, impertinent smile, Cobo, puzzled
for a moment, asked angrily:

- Why is said and not embarrass chance?

- Because!

... Because I Said So ... That !...-- said the other still smiling every with increasing irony
and casting a look of triumph to Esperanza.

Are engaged in a lively dispute, violent, between the two.

Cobo stood his ground arguing briskly that there was no fluster, which nobody had ever heard
and that he was tired of talking to educated people. Councilman Young and perfumed him briefly answered
without leaving the cheeky little smile, sure of his victory. The more furious put Cobo, most
delighted in humiliating him in front of the girl whom they both
sighed.

But the decor changed when irritadísimo Cobo, looking lost, he called
to his aid to Patiño general.

- Let's see, general, you being one
of the great men of the army, do you think is right the Azores?

The
general was flattered by that timely dab of honey, Maldonado said,
addressing in a paternal tone:

- No, Ramon, no: you are wrong. Never
embarrass said in Spain.

The council gave a jump in the chair. Suddenly
abandoning all irony, casting flames from the eyes, he shouted that
they knew what they were saying, it seemed incredible that educated
people, etc., etc .... I was sure of being right and immediately seek
a dictionary.

- The fact is, Ramon - said D. Julian scratching his
head - than he had at home makes has long since disappeared