 Came close to private Lancia always saw this magnanimous and funny man. Retired
three years ago, was to settle in his country, where he one only. Nostalgia for Lancia, the
gathering of Quiñones, and especially teasing Valero his colleague, prompted him to leave the
Galician country to come back to live between lacienses. Valero, promoted to chairman of the
Board, more worn every day, more roistering and ceceoso, sits to the left of the hero. Moro front
is ideal for all inaccessible marriageable girls, whose tireless head easily supports twelve hours
of sitting without dizziness or confusion whatsoever. Of all the institutions created by men,
the strongest, this is the most respectable, the triplet. For his unwavering strength compares
very well to the immutable laws of nature. For Moro is so true that the sword is worth the
rough, like the falling bodies follow a uniformly accelerated motion. Y there in the dark depths
of the camera sleeps in the same chair with his glorious panties Manin short green cloth coat
and strong spiked shoes. His hair is gray, almost white. But this is not the worst for him. What
is truly sad is that people do not consider and as a fierce hunter aged in the fight with the bears
of the mountains. That legend has been slowly dissipating. His countrymen were right. Manin
was only one zampatortas. Lancia also laugh at their exploits and you look like an old fool's
mad and heraldic Mr. Quinones.

Fernanda finally managed to evade the congratulations of his friends
and went to sit in a corner section.

I was sad. The hostility of the owners of the house she was impressed. But this was not the main
thing, though she do for believing. The hidden reason that he was ashamed to confess to herself,
it was Luis. The warm greeting of his former boyfriend had awakened Suddenly all his memories, all
his hopes, sorrows and joys of another time slept on the bottom of his heart like birds among
the leaves of the tree. Inner turmoil was intense, but nothing or very little was reflected
by severe cold continent. However, felt a strong shudder to listen very close to his ear these
words:

- What are you wearing beautiful, Fernanda!

He was so distracted that he did not notice that the count was sitting
at his side.

Unwittingly hand was the site of the heart.

Answer immediately, smiled and said:

- Do you agree?

- Yes ... And I do old, right?

Made an effort and looked at his face intently.

- No, some gray in his beard ... and feel a bit fatigued.

The tremor of his voice contrasted with the apparent indifference
that wanted to give his words.

The count grew suddenly serious, She took his hand to his forehead and replied after a few moments
with somber tone as if speaking to himself:

- Tired, yes, that is the right word ... Very tired! ... The fatigue I get through the pores.

Both kept silence. The count was given to intense meditation outlined in against deep wrinkles. Finally
he said, striking up conversation again:

- I seen you before coming here.

- Where? - Affecting surprise she asked.

- On the road. I left this afternoon for a ride on horseback and I bumped into the chaise.
I knew you well.

- Well I have not seen ... I remember that there are two or three
riders before reaching Lancia but I have not met any.

In saying this could not prevent a wave of crimson dyed them again
her cheeks.

He returned to cover the head. His eyes met those of Amalia, who rested upon them shining, sidewalks.
Contempláronse an instant. Feline mouth Valencia contracted with a smile. Fernanda wanted to
correspond with another as false, but could not.

He turned back to the Count and talked of things indifferent, theater,
music, travel plans.

However, it was more and more worried.

Was losing his poise and spoke mistakes, as if he wandered away from
his thoughts.

Silent moments, struggling to say something, moved about his lips,
but rather to articulate what I wanted, expressing something else,
something trivial and ridiculous that he was embarrassed as he left
them.

Fernanda watched him with attention, winning the serenity and calm
that he lost quickly.

Appeared embedded in complete the conversation, describing his impressions of travel naturally
expressing their views with the same indifference if not mediate between them than an old quiet
friendship. Be concluded by Luis taciturn. Resolution finally had to say, taking advantage of
a moment of silence

- When were you approached me very distracted. What were you thinking?

- I do not remember ... What you thought you would want?

The Count hesitated a moment, but encouraged by the gracious smile of his ex-girlfriend dared
to articulate:

- In me.

Fernanda looked at him in silence, mocking curiosity under which sparked a joy impossible to hide.
The count is up to the ears turned red, and probably would have given
the scissors for not having uttered those two fatal monosyllables.

-
Well ...-- Young said rising from his chair .-- bye.

Good to see you good.

- Listen!

- What? - Said the step back to get away and had him posing in eyes smiling and malicious concluded
to fascinate.

- Sorry if my words have offended you.

Fernanda was a sneer and walked away, exclaiming:

- Repent, sinner, hell you go!

Hell! This word, dropped lightly, as a joke, he turn around his heart; raised concerns of its
existence continued for some time.

All Gayoso had lived under the baleful influence of this idea. But the terror of her grandparents
seemed dilate in spirit, tormenting, maddening.

Amalia needed to fight heroically to distract you for a short time of his scruples. So now, when
he made a sign for who approached, saw him rise from his chair and gloomy approached slowly
as if to drive him. She had too much talent and pride to show wound short conversation we had had
with his former girlfriend. Received him with the same smile, he led the floor with normal and
affected lightness, and did not remember or name Fernanda. But his pale lips contracted with
courage every time I saw him turn his eyes toward it.

And so gullible was often.

A beautiful girl with blue eyes and golden flowing hair appeared at
the door, led by a domestic.

- Oh, how late! - Mrs. Quinones said
.-- Why has it taken you both bring, Paula? - Added sternly.

It said that the girl had fun playing that give milano, and cried every time I wanted to sleep.

- Do not you dream still rich mine? - Said the lady bringing it to
himself and passing his hand tenderly by the loops of her hair.

The circles are keenly interested in the creature.

Was receiving caresses each other and paying them with affectionate kisses goodbye.

- Good night, Josephine .-- Until tomorrow, rich .-- Have you been
good today? - Do you have bought your godmother wrist close your eyes?

The count looked with moist eyes, making incredible efforts to control his emotions. The always felt
his view was offered that girl.

When it was over once did to rub his face with his lips candid.

But Joseph, with that admirable instinct Children have to know who loves them, hung around his
neck giving direct evidence affection.

Fernanda also watched with keen interest, with an intense curiosity
that made him open very eyes.

Josephine was six, pearly complexion, the eyes of a sweet infinite blue and melancholy, something
sad and sickly throughout his diminutive person. The Count resemblance
was obvious.

When she left him, eyes that collided with Fernando. He felt embarrassed: it was to sit farther away.

Josefina
elegantly dressed. The lords of the Quiñones lovingly raised as an adopted child. For a long
time this was the favorite topic of gossip Lancia. A differential with keen interest the cost
of your hats, it was said the number of toys that they bought; hacíanse calculations on the amount
that would endow upon marriage. But they had already exhausted of
much comment.

Shot came only when some allusion was let out sharp, or news to hear some new discovery.

The girl went to a group where they were Maria Josefa, the maid of the tongue devastating and
Manuel Antonio, beautiful long as the first rays of the morning.

- Listen, Josefina, who do you want more, your sponsor or your sponsor? - He asked that.

- A sponsor - said the girl without hesitation.

- And who want more,
do your sponsor or the count?

The girl looked surprised with her big blue eyes. They went through a burst of confidence and
replied, furrowing his brow beautiful:

- In my godfather.

- But the count does not bring you many toys?

Do not you take by car to the farm?

Do not you have purchased the charro outfit?

- Yes ... but it is my godfather.

The laughter of the group welcomed this response. They realized that the girl was lying. Don
Pedro was not the man to inspire affection lively one.

- Well, I think the count is also your pa ... Drina.

- Not so, I
have no more than one sponsor - said the girl, more and more suspicious.

And

he left the group.

It was where I was Amalia stood over him crossing his arms over his
chest and said with bow:

- Godmother, the blessing.

The lady gave her hand, kissed the girl with respectful affection.

Then, holding it in their arms, kissed her forehead.

- You rest,
my child.

Go ask a blessing to your sponsor.

The girl went to the cabinet.

These practices are very pleased last time the master of Quiñones.

Josephine approached him shyly.

That great man paralyzed always filled him with fear, even tried to hide it because it had commanded
her godmother.

- Lord's blessing - he said dully.

The high and mighty Grandee ignored.

Fixed on the cards in his hand, wrapped Talma in gray with red cross
on his chest, was growing by the eyes troubled times of poor Josephine.

Would not understand that nothing in the world's largest, most impressive
and worthy of respect that the noble lord.

In this opinion involved D. Pedro. So had long since resolved confound all things around him
in a chaotic mass, in which only two or three appeared with a single
character.

The girl waited with his arms crossed about a quarter of an hour. Finally Mr. Quinones, after
playing a fortune entry, deigned to stick in her a stern look that
became pale.

He reached his aristocratic hand gesture worthy of his namesake Peter
the Great Russia and Josephine fell on her trembling lips and left.

I was not quite as exalted the man with his wife so lovingly nourishing
a foundling, but consented because it flattered his vanity.

Amalia had told him, knowing where it hurt:
- Would raise it to anyone in domestic Lancia. We must do things
otherwise.

D. Peter could not help but feel the weight of this undeniable
truth.

Josefina crossed the room to go to bed. To skim to Fernanda,
who was sitting and alone, it's caught on the fly by a little arm
and pulled. All the joy, all the tenderness at that time overflowed
his heart, desbordose with violence on the creature, who covered it
with kisses. Not agreed to any of his rival, who guessed expired.
Only thought that it was his daughter, his blood, the same image.
And kissed with rapture those blue eyes deep, melancholic, that pearly
complexion, those golden curls that circles his face as a halo of
light.

- Oh, what beautiful hair! What a beautiful thing, my God!

And
pressed his lips against it and even dipped his face in his threads
with such delight and tenderness that was about to mourn.

At that
moment a loud voice, imperious, rang in his ears.

- Have not you
gone to bed, urchin!

And looking up saw Amalia, his face pale, his
lips tight, she took the girl violently by the arm giving it a strong
shake and crawled to the door.

XI

Amalia's anger.

The next morning,
Paula, by order of her mistress, took the girl to her room iron, her
in a high chair and asked the maid scissors, stitching at the foot
of the balcony.

- What are you doing? - Asked Josephine.

- Cut your
hair.

- Why? ... I do not want to cut my hair.

And they came down
firmly in the saddle. Paula turned to lift her.

- Hold on, now -
he said sternly.

- I do not want! ... I do not want! - Said with
a graceful resolution.

- The truth is that pity so beautiful a hair
cut - said one of the maids, who was ironing.

- What is it, daughter?
The boss, boss.

And taking one of the beautiful curls of her hair,
spread it a snip.

- Let me go, Paula! - Cried the girl .-- I'll tell
godmother!

- Yes, sweetheart? Are you going to tell really godmother?
... Well, I'll tell when we finish.

And pay more attention to their
protests, dropping the buzz words, continued unperturbed task. But
she got back, irritated, angry. Paula then asked for help to Concha,
seamstress, and while it was subject to the chair, it was stripping
the one by one from all loops. Managed as best he could after the
remaining hair.

- What a pity - she cried the laundress.

- Child,
so not bad either - said Paula neatly combed.

Now appeared the lady
in the box on the door.

- Godmother! See, godmother! ... Look, Paula
and Concha me cut their hair.

Amalia advanced a few steps across
the room and avoiding the gaze of the girl stared severe in his head,
and said imperiously, and cold:

- Not a good thing. You cut the monkfish.

And
he walked away with the furrowed brow. Josefina, stunned, his eyes
followed her. I had never seen in the face of his godmother so coldly
and harshly. Was shocked, thinking and left already without making
the slightest movement, Paula fulfill the mandate.

It soon became
the head blond peeled like a peach. The home erupted into laughter.

-
Child of my soul that you have retefeísima! - Exclaimed Maria ironing
accent grief, but could not help laughing.

- Do not say that woman
- bitter dejillo Concha said .-- If you are beautiful!

She was twenty-five
years or more, extremely small, almost as small as Josephine hollow-eyed
and surly, whom all feared servants of the house