 

Cautísimo to the end, Mr. Eleazar never wrote a letter of his own hand, limited to sign what he dictated,
not without careful to always read the manuscript before signing that we presented.

In trade, Mr. Eleazar was considered a privateer. And I got attacked by enemy but when not finding
opponents who attack, or when he wanted to ensure success a dangerous operation, had no kind of
inconvenience to consummate acts of real piracy, without losing the venerable and majestic appearance
of his countenance, and even crying and covering their hawks with words of humility that seemed to
come from the bottom of his soul.

That happened not infrequently in times of stock market turmoil, that the corridor behind started
to sell their titles, came out another door a second in order to make up; and in the afternoon,
when either returned to account for its operations, Mr. Eleazar took
the floor and spoke in the language and accent of a holy man and convinced:

-
So, Don Thomas, so, as they have wanted, they are well spent.

Since you know, sir, I do not like to hurt anyone! But what can a man honest in these times
of bad faith? It is necessary to protect us! You see, sir, I have Indeed many charities in
this country, when he was how to make them, there is one of those I want to ruin, I will not
be all that is. I have always been the same them have lost two fortunes help! Two fortunes,
sir, and I only need am compelled to defend myself.

And when Don Eleazar neared the end of his speech, he opened his snuff
box, inviting the caller and then drew from his deep pouches a long
scarf of India which blew his nose and covered his face, to more expressive
in their lamentations.

In the internal order of the desktop, Don Eleazar was of a severity
bordering on cruelty never leave a respite, a break for their dependents.

It worked there day and night without rest, under the immediate direction of Don Anselmo, the
alter ego of Don Eleazar; a Spanish boy, forty years, shrewd, alert and cunning for business
as a capeador to circumvent the bull, and without which rarely Don Eleazar held business conferences
delicate and important.

Don Eleazar never appeared in theaters, dances and outings.

Came the morning of the fifth in his classic coupe gateados pulled by two horses, gentle and
calm returning to lead afternoon or evening, if the demands of work demanded his presence on the desktop
after eating. But if Mr. Eleazar did not walk in society, his name and influence were felt in a thousand
different ways: in the elections was always part in the two sides without giving his name,
and was attending effectively to win both games with heavy amounts money.

He knew well that those who can negotiate on policy, this good mother
gives back the loan with principal and compound interest, and as for
him as they were the nationalist and autonomist the Buenos Aires and
the provinces, the federal and unitary, with all promiscuous, because
in the vineyard of the Lord in worth for him to be Jewish and Christian.
