 

SUCH, EUMORFO.

CREMATURGO .-- What nerve is this? How dare you, Eumorfo, to introduce
and compete with me?

I have in my possession four promissory notes due and archivencidos
yours, and I'll execute you tomorrow.

Restrain your anger .-- EUMORFO, generous mogul. I knew that I belonged Asclepigenia.

CREMATURGO .-- Either way, the truth is that Asclepigenia cheated
us the three lovers.

The perhaps, what I say anything? the goddess Minerva has brought
us here to disabuse.

Let Asclepigenia to see and tell you what you deserve. She waits alone. Come to my company.

Let .-- EUMORFO.

Let .-- PROCLEAN.

(Proclus philosopher takes his stick and go out together all three.)

SCENE
IX.

Parastasio platform or rich and elegant Asclepigenia house adorned
with statues and paintings, and illuminated by lamps, some hanging
from the ceiling, placed on tables other Delphic.

Asclepigenia And Atenais.

(The first appears reclining languidly lying almost in a chair esquimpodio or longer. Atenais, at his
side, on a stool.)

Atenais .-- How you saw your first love?

Asclepigenia .-- Yes, I have seen.

It has given me a pity. Is thin, pale, shriveled. And then How dirty!

I certainly in the fifteen years he has lived away from me has not washed alone even when your
hands.

Atenais .-- This serious flaw has spiritualism or mysticism, now private
and spreads.

It seems that the virtues required to fashion the righteous who are pigs.

Asclepigenia .-- And that's not the worst, but the mood seizes a sadness vague and sophistic that
weakens; sadness that the former just met, a contempt for the world and the sweetness of life,
cities and towns depopulated deserts, a disdain for the welfare and
wealth, stealing arms to agriculture and industry, and a gentleness
resigned amengua that the value of citizen and soldier.

More than Attila and all the barbarians, I do symptoms predict the
total ruin of civilization. But back to dirt and neglect in person,
I assure you it gave me creeps see Proclus. Offends any medium nose
sensitive.

Atenais .-- Cruel drawback is that if you have to live
with Proclus.

Asclepigenia .-- I know about it. I will not go in
discussions or advice, but, as a joke, I'll have morning I caught
two slaves before eating, you blow in a bathroom and I will wash and
scrub with almond paste and rubbed onto me diapasma aromas. Himself
will feel better afterwards, and make a habit of washing.

Atenais
.-- But, declare openly, in spite of Proclus is so old, so worn and
so dirty, would you still love?

Asclepigenia .-- I love him and adore
him. It seems to me that he is the latest incarnation of the wonderful
genius of Greece. Loving, is magnificent and praises my whole being,
even consider myself as science, poetry, Greek civilization personified.

Atenais
.-- Indeed, Proclus is the prince of philosophers