 I rather wanted to know. Are very similar. Can not deny
that they are brothers. It is necessary to protect them. The sisters of one of my lavish customers!
By all means ...

In fact, from the master tailor, his officers and
others, succeeded in separating combatants and unravel the wheels
of vehicles, after which either could move on, Carry On carrying blood
stains the fourth in the coachman's shirt listing blue.

May protect the backs of the latter's coat of livery cloth, at least is not she saw the signs of the
fray.

And once you clear one area of ??Agramonte and returned, the master tailor at the cutting table,
officers in their platform, the first clock suddenly pulled out of
his pocket and Air surprised, said: - All three! higher then adding:
- José Dolores!

Soon it to appear in the presence of the master Uribe.

He carried on his shoulder two skeins braided, a white linen thread, another black silk, stuck
in the braces of several needles short pants, not too thin, and the middle finger of his right
hand a steel thimble, bottomless.

The birth of José Dolores Pimienta, and Francisco de Paula Uribe attended undoubtedly equally
white and black races, with this essential difference, that it took more blood the former than
the latter, a circumstance that should be taken less bilious color of his face, though pale,
the regularity of her features, the breadth of his forehead, near perfection of the hands
and the smallness of the feet, so in the way in goal the bridge could compete with those of
Caucasian woman. Not to be delicate constitution cheekbones protruded long oval face, and had no
hair as woolly as Uribe. In his case, as in the eye, and sometimes even in the tone of voice,
had marked air of timidity and melancholy, it is not always easy to discern between them,
revealing, or too much modesty and tenderness of affection.

Musical organization had to be extremely violent, which could not take a door others, to barter
the clarinet, his favorite instrument, the thimble or the tailor's needle, one of the fine arts
by a mechanical trade and sedentary. But the need to have face heretic, as the typical adage
reads Spanish, and José Dolores Pimienta, although director conductors, often held in the church
choir during the day and in the dances of the fairs at night, it was not enough to meet their
own needs and those of her sister Nemesia, venting. Music in Cuba, like other arts, was not
rich, nor comforts provided even to its adherents. The famous toast, Ulpian, Vuelta y Flores
and others were more or less in this case.

- How about the green jersey indivisible? Uribe asked. Is it in test status? Are three and soon
will be here the gentleman Gamboa, as the clock.

- For how long ago that you gave me, Senor Uribe, "replied Pepper,
I have enough advanced.

- How is that?

Did not you gave it from behind before yesterday?

- Excuse you, Senor Uribe, I did not come to receive the pledge, if
we speak out, to yesterday morning