 Perhaps I would have been better not to exalt fight for both, and bounds since then, as and I
shall confine myself to this sublunary world and the men who will live, in whom it is progress,
because, without doubt, had a beginning and grew, but will, in my opinion, limited progress because
and this planet has to last forever, nor is it likely that humanity does not contain itself
in germ powers to unfold in perpetual ascent, and improve with unrelenting and indefinite progress,
and drawing from among its members what they call now the superman, The coming believe not
a few, for example, Mr. D. Gener Pompey, and for which I suspect that the future will write those
novels that tells Mr. Reyles, using to write the new newly invented art of poetry and is so exquisite
and so deep.

Above all this talk in a separate article, because this already very
long.

II

From the cute catarrinia to the elegant and beautiful Helena and from antropiscos alal who left
the Lemuria and spread in flocks and howling all over the world to
the man who composed the Iliad and those who understood and enjoyed
reading it, so there is progress astonishing that, even if thousands
of centuries to perform, still seems unlikely and all but impossible.

Perhaps it is all the wise dream ingenious engaged to prehistory.

Let us doubt the claims of this science brand. Without it. And affirm with the data supplied
recorded history and no dream, that neither beauty nor body strength and agility, or in courage
and fortitude, and clarity and elevation thoughts, today our lineage more noble and perfect types
that displayed and, as real people, make more than three thousand
years.

The man, therefore, has no any progress in its own being, for so long.

The opposite is what you can or think it can be said when considering the sublimity mission of
some individuals of our species, happiness and met with the transcendence charitable works, compared
to which nothing is equal in the day. The firms gave top individuals and communities from very ancient
times, not be discerned they may have now or in the near future, something to overcome them.
I do not deny the possibility anything, I merely stated that I do not perceive, for example,
greater glory, nor things present or in the future, that of ancient Greece, which check the
foundation, creating the trace and forged mold of any further European culture to that of
a single city, Rome, which has dominion the best of the Orb, and with their laws and language
unifies and prepares it to receive with ease other higher element of civilization, and of
that peninsula where live, that to extend this civilization beyond
the boundaries and known terms until then, manages to discover new
worlds.

I repeat, therefore, that men who did such great things are not inferior to those of the day.
Then in our being there has been progress. Yet progress is undeniable, if not us, in what is outside
us, although our power and accumulated inheritance. Napoleon, for instance, is not better than Alexander
the Great, but Napoleon has guns and other means of warfare that
Alexander did not have.

Neither Kant nor Hegel worth as much as Aristotle but Aristotle did not possess the scientific
data twentieth of Kant and Hegel.

Fed is understood and in what sense and to what extent progress is undeniable. No progress in science
but in art there is no progress. If Pericles would be resurrected today turulato to hear the
phonograph, talking on the phone and see the electric poles, balloons, Railways and photography.
Even a box to fit a small dog matches to topple him the ground, dazed
with awe and surprise, but it sure would not find among all Paris
hetairae a more discreet, distinguished and beautiful that Aspasia,
and you seem Magdalena a sad parody of the Parthenon and the Eiffel
Tower an ugly and monstrous freak.

I confess that, if brought together the finest lyrical poetry of great poets Pericles today
and could read and understand, was to find them superior to those of Pindar. Neat would explain why.
Suffice it that I recognize that in the lyric outbid the old. Not so in the rest. The same wealth
of knowledge and the itch to analyze things and look all around each object, remove grace,
lightness and sharpness style and make it heavy, confusing and vague. Pericles accustomed to the
speed of the narration Herodotus could not stand or the great historian Macaulay, who, if he
had continued history of England until now, have had to give the stamp hundreds volumes of the
Tauchnitz edition, and would have been necessary, even for an intelligent reader and regular,
the use of some years of life just to read and learn half Macaulay of what he says. Used also
to the conciseness Pericles in the telling of so many beautiful fables, legends and traditions of
their homeland, I'd bet a thousand to one that would not suffer with patience, without yawning
and without sleep, the ponderous and endless descriptions a novel
by Zola.

It is true that anyone will tell me to answer that Zola does not write
for me to read Pericles, but to read to the men of the day.

And as men of the day like many of his novels, Zola has great merit, and as I say, no evidence
against it.

My reply is clear. I do not want to infer or infer anything about the merits of the novels Zola.
Were written to please in the day, and this has been achieved. Is
it enough credit.

All I hope to demonstrate is the undisputed progress of science and the above discussed progress
of art. It is clear that Pericles is admire and like the phone, but also is clear or almost clear
that not admire or like almost any of our novels.

For even more evidence, we turn to other fine art: a sculpture. Nobody will deny that glorious character
who gave his name to his century and was so clear and delicate understanding like, remember
the Jupiter and Minerva of Phidias friend, and all the statues of our plazas, temples and tours
will seem less than medium. Now suppose that the resurrected Pericles cicerone serves as a sage
of the deepest in the day, very convinced of the incomparable superiority of everything today on all
the old, and very aware of the advances Science and brand new most ingenious inventions. This
leads to the Olympic wise Pericles to a cabinet or museum of wax figures and lets me shocked and stunned.
What have see Minerva and Jupiter, where gold, ivory and marble exterior only imitate what Nature
and even that incompletely and without all his hair and signals, as wax figures? Well say nothing
if the wise man winds up the figures, and as most of them are automated, are released to walk and
even open their mouths and greet the distinguished Greek Tourist. And still be the more the wonder
of it when his wise guidance touch certain springs, open windows
in belly and chest to the figures mentioned above and to lift them
gently and without any damage the brains out.

      The Athenian then exclaim,
    like the character in a celebrated zarzuela:

Today the advance science
that is an outrage.

Indeed, thanks to a skillful mechanics, aided by the wonderful chemistry and other disciplines,
in the interior of each figure starts to move the heart, blood flows by arteries and veins,
lungs and air takes with him a thousand operations, and, finally, and not tired, go up the brains
many atoms of phosphorus and other volatile essences are sneak in there like he owned the place,
several celulillas, and little time, as the Gusarapo, worms and other caterpillars, butterflies come,
Beatilla and mosquitoes, many varied flows thoughts and feelings,
good and evil, which can quickly become crimes or deeds, in moralizing
or subversive speeches, works of charity or rapes and murders.

Pericles then have to confess that this is exquisite and deep, as
he calls Mr. Reyles to his art.

What does not confess, which blindly deny, is that it is fine art such mischief.

And still we go from bad to worse in this matter of fine art, if the figures shows that the cicerone
Pericles are made for the study of internal diseases, and is within them how they form tumors, fistulas,
ulcers, growths and all sorts of pupae. The poor Pericles, perhaps wrongly imagined that the arts
serve to amuse, soothe and lift spirit, just get with this brand new art fair to be up and upset
your stomach, and force him to make a libation in honor of Aesculapius with Cyprus wine you had
on your last supper next to his beautiful Aspasia, which has been
preserved in the tomb, for twenty centuries, and that made you dream
a thousand divine beauties there.

Now apply to the pleasant literature of the statues which have said.

Easy is to get the following consequences:

That such literature should you remove the epithet enjoyable.

If it is not pleasant is not helpful either, because it upsets us and afflicts the poor showing, with
all disgusting and horrible details and does not offer any remedy.

That even if this literature is very scientific fashion, exquisite and deep, yet can deny that
it is well underway literature, but mere extravagance, and tends
not to amuse, but to teach, in order to be fulfilled better than novels,
with physiological lectures, pathological, histological and teratological.

And

those who sustain the progress of threatened rare literature, novels based on the fashion, assume,
not a decline in everything else, this would be less bad, but progress and growth horrible perversion
and corruption of the human, whose paint is thoroughly Case of the novels above.

If science had shown that evil is inevitable, which is explained by determinism vices and virtues,
imagination and faith schools should be dismissed as anachronistic and and that only we have
hope or on earth or in heaven, very dismal and evil Science had made progress, but progress would
end and we should respect him, and we should bow our heads and resign. All this science distressing
us teach, digging a heart in a fist, and full of fear and disgust, it would be nice entered
in scientific treatise, courses and epitomes, but in the novels often by people who has not won
a tassel at the universities, all could go Trabucador and although it came out, would not
novel either, but poorly digested hodgepodge of science, fantastic
accessible to all, and would stir interest only and not as a simple
art works and healthy, but our nerves overwrought like potions and
liniments pharmaceutical that make us see horrific visions and to
which we fans a perverse curiosity.

I feel that the ink is still a lot to say, but I can not help it,
and making point here, I leave for another day.

III

I had thought not to bother again readers of The Liberal flowing and meditating aesthetic issues
in relation to novels, but as I suffer from some ailment, before and today called cacohetes
scribendi graphomania call, had already written my third article on progress in the art of
the word, and I had not dared to send him to The Liberal. My intent was and is writing on the
subject as I come up and then reunite in a book, printing it very small number of copies. So,
now I see The Liberal an article in which my illustrious friend, Doña Emilia Pardo Bazán, seeks to
challenge what I said and even what I have said. Me not a little flattered that Dona Emilia
is used in this, but I will not pass because it gives me views that I have not delivered. I never
said I that the novels of Zola, Daudet, Goncourt, Tolstoy, Ibsen, etc., are bad. On the contrary,
I said that may be so good and so excellent, that the writing, the same donut Emilia, Pereda, Galdós,
Jacinto Octavio Picon, Armando Palacio Valdés and several others, without I exclude, will obrillas
insubstantial, and absolutely devoid of epidermal education and transcendence. But this would
be that Spain and the Spanish are decayed and even left hand of God, so that, just as there is
now Gonzalo de Cordoba, Polite, Pizarro and Cisneros, there is also Cervantes. And there will
be that there is an art exquisite and profound just invented out of Spain produced such wonders,
leaving bewildered and bowlegged, and moving to mimic the perpetrators of such wonders, to see
if bothered to find out the brand new procedure that make them giddy and the whole world with our
novels as you giddy them. I did not say neither more nor less than what I repeat now, albeit
heavy, but even if it is heavy, as Dona Emilia gives me the opportunity
to do so, I will continue my meditations aesthetic, inserting here
is my third article for fear that of exhausting the public remained
unpublished, and is as follows:

The only thing I am truly sorry and
that sometimes leads me to regret having made deal very complicated
issue is the multitude of aspects under which substantial amount and
extension therefore I have to give this writing.

Moreover, my conviction is ever stronger the more I think about it, but I believe useless or
of little importance explain and defend what my thinking is presented as true opinions against
me seem false and even absurd. I'm not excited about the national pride and singular, not affirm
nor deny, but I for cheap, to pave the way for the discussion, removing tripping medium, in French
and Russian novels of the day are much better than those in Spain are written. Ingenuity, inspiration,
and a joke, have perhaps migrated from Spain. I do not want deny it, I'm just sorry. What I
deny, and that is the question, is that fine progress as it progresses arts chemistry or surgery,
and the superiority of the novels French and Russian on our own, are that those are written
in the precepts of fine art and newly invented deep.

I will concede that in everything, even in the fine points, there is progress, as we technician
or call the office, but, well I admit, I recognize also that technical and progressive literature,
little importance compared with the essential it, in which there
is no progress.

Recapacítese well and see that at no time placed men in the level of the most vulgar and culture
medium was then, it has taken more special studies or more years of learning to be a poet or
novelist that exercise any other occupation. All men, for example, can speak and write, but
not all drive the awl and tirapié, and may not apply to it with zeal and perseverance.