 

[165.] Seems to have excogitating the aforementioned distinction not seen in the precision of
admit infinite divisibility in natural bodies. Reflecting on this point is easy to see that
having the difficulty with regard to mathematical bodies, mystery Subsisting entirely philosophical.
This mystery is estimated that there may be a limit point to the division, while there is rather
extensive, and that if to signal this limit is reached simple points, then there is no way
to reconstitute the extension. For so the difficulty arises from the very nature of things large,
whether conceived and realized, and real order can not but suffer all the disadvantages of
the ideal. If dotted unextended no extension can be conceived, can not be the extension true,
and if the extension is not thought likely to limit its division until to simple points, what will
happen to own the real: these disadvantages of being born very essence of extension, are inseparable
from it.

CHAPTER XXIII.

POINTS unextended.

[166.] Against the existence of unextended points militate two powerful reasons: first, which
must involve the infinite in number, it does not seem possible otherwise, arriving to the
simple, based on the length, and second, that even if infinite in number, are unable to result
in the extension. These two reasons are so powerful that they excusable all musings to the contrary,
because no matter how strange they may seem, cease to be when compared
with the strangeness that is so simple form the extended, and that
any portion of matter is to be an infinite number of parts.

[167.] Does not seem possible to arrive at unextended points but going through an infinite division:
unextended it is zero in the order of the extension, and a decreasing geometric progression do
not get to zero but continuing it to infinity. What that tells us the mathematical calculation
makes us sensitive imagination. Wherever there are two parts together, there is a face which are touching,
and one on the outside that is not in contact. Separating internal outside, we find two new faces,
one contact and another not. Following the division, same thing happen to us, then to come
to the unextended, we have to go through a series infinite: in other words what to say that never
comes. By way to continue the division to infinity we are compelled to assume infinite parts, and
therefore, the existence of an infinite number today. From the moment we assume existing this
infinite number, it seems to us becomes finite, as we see and an end to the division, and above
all we see larger numbers than him. Suppose that the infinite number parts are in a cubic inch:
I say the numbers are larger than this course infinity: for example, a cubic foot contains 1728 times
the so-called infinite content in the cubic inch.

It follows that the opinion of unextended points, wanting to avoid the infinite division, is
to fall into it; and their opponents flee proposing unextended point
seems at last come to recognize its existence.

The imagination is lost, and the understanding is confused.

[168.] The other difficulty is no less intractable, suppose that we have come to the points unextended,
how can we reconstitute the extension? Unextended it is dimensionless, then by more join points
unextended form no extension. Imaginémenos who meet two points as neither occupy any place,
any more than fill the two together. Can not said to interpenetrate, as there is no penetration
when there is no extension, what should be say is that being all
zero in the order of extension, their sum, however large the number
of addends, it will not be anything extensive.

[169.] Here occurs a difficulty: it is true that only a sum of zero
results in zero; but it is something accepted among mathematicians,
that certain expressions equal to zero, can product taken for a finite
amount, if multiplied by the other infinite.

0 +0 +0 +0 + Nx0 = 0, but if we: (0 / M) = 0, and multiply the expression by (M / 0) = infinity
result (0 / M) x (M / 0) = (0xM) / (Mx0) = (0 / 0) which can be equal either to a finite amount,
which will express by A. This demonstrates even with single elementary principles of algebra,
and passing to the sublime, we have (dz / dx) = (0 / 0) = B, expressing
the differential coefficient B, which can be a finite value.

"These doctrines mathematics can help explain the generation of long, starting from unextended
points? I think not.

Since then jumps to the eyes, not being the multiplication rather than an addition abbreviated
if an infinite addition of zeros can not give more than zero, nor can be otherwise the multiplication,
but the other factor is infinite. Why then the mathematical results tell us otherwise? It is
true that there is such a contradiction, it is only apparent. In the propagation of infinitesimal
by the infinite product can be obtained by a number finite, because the infinitesimal is not
considered as a true zero, but a number less than every imaginable, but it's still something.
From the moment you are missing to this condition, all operations would be absurd, because nothing
would be on a cigar. Shall we say by this that the expressions (dz / dx) = (0 / 0) are only
approximate? No, because express the relation of the limit of decreasing, which verifies that
it is equal to B, only when the differentials are equal to zero, but as the geometer does not
consider more than the limit itself jumps all the intervals of decrease, and placed course
at the point where the real accuracy.

Why then operates on these amounts? because the operations are a kind of algebraic language that
mark the path that has followed in the calculations, and recall the bond limit to the amount
to which it relates.

[170.] In the unit, not a number, is the number. Why no extension points can not be the Chapter? The
disparity is large. In unextended, as such, does not enter rather than the negative perception
of the extension, but the unit, while it denied the number, denial is not their nature, nobody
has ever defined the unit to "the negation of number 'and all the unextended define "what has
not extension." Unity is a be any taken in general, not considering it, division, and the number
is a set of units, then the idea of ??entering the unit number of an undivided being, not being
but the number that repetition of this unit.

Every number is fixed in the unit, through what is number it is contained
in a particular way: the length can not be resolved in unextended,
but proceeding to infinity, or making the decomposition in a way that
we not reached.

CHAPTER XXIV.

A GUESS ON THE TRANSCENDENTAL NOTION OF THE EXTENSION.

[171.] Arguments militating both for and against unextended points, and the infinite divisibility
of matter, they all seem conclusive: so that the understanding as they have encountered suspicious
shows contradictory. Cree find absurd in infinite divisibility, absurd, if he says limits, absurd,
denies the points unextended, absurd, if supported. When attacking the contrary opinion feel
invincible; but their strength becomes profound weakness, as soon as you establish and defend
own. Yet the reason can not contradict: two contradictory demonstrations would be the contradiction
of reason itself and would be to their utter ruin, the contradiction since there can not exist, but
in appearance. But where is the knot?

How unleashed? Who can get flatter? Heavy reliance on this point would a sure sign of a lack of
understanding the state of the question, and vanity would stay punished resulting convinced ignorant.
With these caveats, let me give some comments about this mysterious question.

[172.] I am inclined to believe that research on the first elements of matter you have a mistake
it impossible to reach the result. If the extension is sought Points can be unextended, and the
method used is to imagine approximate and see if they can fill some of the space. This in my
view, be equivalent to denial that correspond to the statement. Unextended point is given us nothing,
but the denial of the extension, when we require it to deal with other space require you to be unextended
is extensive. There seems to be here a game of imagination makes us assume the extension, in
the very act that is intended to assist his generation primitive. The space, as you see it,
is a true extension, and second I said, is the idea of ??the extension in full generality: they
pretend it has to fill unextended space, is to require the extension not to become extension.
It is true that this is precisely what is requested, and that, therefore, here's the whole
point of the difficulty, but The mistake seems to be that this difficulty
is the want to solve by the simple juxtaposition method, and therefore
it requires something unextended points obviously contradictory.

[173.] To find out about the regeneration of the extension, it would need to be able to remove
all sensible representations of all the ideas that are more or less affected by phenomenon, and
to move to the contemplation of the same reality as simple eye with look as sharp as a pure spirit, it
would be necessary that all geometric ideas forms could shed phenomenal, I mean of all representations
of the imagination; and offer the refined understanding of everything that mixes with the sensible
order, would need to know to what extent the extension, the real
continuity, is in line with the phenomenal that is, the perceived
object delete everything that is related to the subject that perceives.

[174.]

We saw that in the course were two things: variety and continuity; respect to the first, we
make no difficulty arising from the unextended points: provided there are multiple units, is the
number, are those simple or compound. The secret is in continuity, in that it presents sensible
intuition as clear as the basis of the representations of the imagination, and yet the understanding
entangled with inextricable ties. Perhaps you could say that continuity, regardless of representation
sensible and considered only in the transcendent order that is in reality as can be offered to a pure
spirit, is nothing more than the constant ratio of many beings, which are of such nature that
may occur in the sensitive being the phenomenon called representation, and be perceived in that
intuition which is like your recipent and is called representation space.

With this scenario, the extension in the external world is real, not
just as a principle of causality of our impressions, but as an object
subjected to the necessary relationships we conceive.

[175.] But then, you ask, does the external world is as we imagine?
should respond to this by noting that according to what has been said
when dealing with sensations, it is necessary to deprive him of what
these are subjective, and that an innocent illusion, became a target
and that, as to the extension, there was actually of us, regardless
of our feelings, but, considered in itself, has no nothing that this
attribute, but what they perceive the pure understanding, without
mixing any sensible representation.

[176.] There appears to be no objection to support this theory, which states at once reality of
the corporeal world and dispel the difficulties of the most unalloyed idealism. To present in
a few words my opinion I will say that the extension itself, the whole universe in itself, is
known as God, and in the knowledge of God does not mix any of these representations sensitive
who is always accompanied by our weak perception.

In this case, the remainder of the extension is positive in a certain order multiplicity constant.
The continuity itself is nothing more than this order, and as significantly represented in
us, is a purely subjective that does not affect reality.

[177.] Until you can point to a reason that we have been given sensible intuition. Our soul is
linked to an organized body, ie a set of beings associated with relationship consistent among
themselves and with other bodies in the universe. For harmony is not broken and the soul who presided
over the organization to exercise his functions as appropriate, needed
it to have a continuous representation of the whole body relations
themselves and to strangers.

This representation should be simultaneous, and independent of intellectual combinations: for without
this was not possible to exercise the powers animals, with the promptness and perseverance that
requires the satisfaction of needs life. For this reason we will be given to all sentient beings,
even the short of reason, the intuition of the extension or space, which is to be in the living
as a limitless field where portray different parts of the universe.

CHAPTER XXV.

ORDER HARMONY REAL, GREAT, and ideals.

[178.] In the external world we can consider two kinds: one real,
another phenomenal, the One is its own absolute: the second is relative
to the being who perceives the phenomenon by First, the world is,
for the second, appears.

A pure intellectual being knows what the world is a being that appears sensible experience.
In ourselves we can see this duality as sensitive, we experience the phenomenon: as smart as
we know the reality, we strive to descry by through reasoning and
conjecture.

[179.] The external world in its real nature, quite apart from the phenomenal is not an illusion.
Their existence is known to us not only the phenomena but also for
the principles of pure understanding, superior to all individual and
contingent.

These principles, data supported an experience, that is, sensations whose existence we witness
the inner sense, we ensure that the objectivity of sensation, or the reality of an external
world, is true.

[180.] The distinction between essential and accidental, and between the absolute and relative
was known at school.

The extension was not considered as the essence of bodies, but as an accident, the relations
of the body with our senses, were not supported immediately in essence, but in accidents. The
essence of bodies, constituted matter and substantial form together: the material receiving
the form, and acting as matter. Neither the matter nor the substantial form were immediately obvious
to the sense, this perception needed for the determination of the figure and other accidents
than the essence of the body.

So sensitive objects scholastics distinguished three classes: own,
common and accident: proprium, commune, et per accidens.

Itself is offered immediately to sense, and is not seen but one: the color, sound, smell, and
taste. The common, is perceived by various senses, as the figure, which is the subject of sight
and touch. The accidental, or per accidens, is not directly perceived by any sense, which
is hidden under the sensible qualities, and we discover through of these, such as substances.
Per accidens sensible, is linked with the sensible qualities; but these do not offer an understanding
as the original image, but as a sign the thing signified. Here is that the sensible per accidens,
no emission was supposed species to reduce the act to the faculties of sensation: it was rather sensible
intelligible.

[181.] In the corporeal universe, considered in its essence, there
is no need to assume anything which is similar to the sensible representation,
but it is necessary to assume a correspondence between the object
and the idea, otherwise it would be necessary to admit that geometrical
truths can be refuted by experience.

[182.] Although the extension is not more than an order of beings that we can not be perfect
concept, not possible to debug Serna any form sensible ideas, this
order must correspond to our ideas, and even to our sensible representations,
as necessary to verify the truth of ideas.

It is evident that the phenomenal order, although other than real, is nevertheless bound by it
and depends on it, by law constant: if we assume that there is a parallel between reality and
the phenomenon, and in that no There are all necessary conditions to meet the demands of this,
there is no reason why the phenomena are subject to constant laws, and not suffer in our experience
continuous disturbances. Not assuming a fixed and constant correspondence between reality and
appearance, the world we are thrown into chaos, and we find it impossible any constantly experience
orderly.

[183.] Unwrap the preceding observation. One of the elementary propositions geometry says the vertex
opposite angles are equal. To demonstrate its truth, I need internal intuition of two intersecting
lines extending from both sides, but the proposition geometry is
not limited to any particular those intuitions, but extends to all
the imaginable, with no limit on their number, without any determination
as to measure angles or to the length of the lines, nor to their position
in space.

Behold the pure idea, encompassing countless cases, where no sensible intuition is more than
one, if it is a time, and several isolation, in the case of representations succession. The understanding
is not confined to state this relationship between ideas, but the same applies to reality, and says
wherever they perform the conditions of this ideal order, be verified in the same real I'm
seeing in my ideas, and if these conditions not performed accurately, in proportion of this
will be checked more or less the relationship expressed: the more delicate than the actual
lines are cut, the closer to perfection, as to be straight, much more about the relationship
be verified equal angles. This belief is based on the principle of contradiction, which would be distorted
if the motion is verified, and is confirmed by experience, as it can somehow reach the conditions
stipulated in the order ideal.

[184.] Now, in reality what is it that corresponds to that proposition? line real or existing,
will be an order of beings, two intersecting lines are two orders of beings, with a particular
relationship, the angle will be the result of this relationship, or rather the relationship
same, and equal opposite angle is the correspondence of these relations on account equality,
for the continuation of the same order in another way. This set of relationships between the orders of
beings, and the correspondence of these orders to each other, is
what in reality corresponds to the pure geometrical idea, or rather
to the whole idea of ??separate representation sensitive.

As long as the relations of the idea have their corresponding objects in the relations of reality,
the geometry exists not only in the ideal order but also in the real. As the phenomenon, or is
the sensible representation, is subject to the same conditions the idea, having also in the order
of phenomena in certain relations the same reason that the idea and in fact, will line the idea
and reality of the phenomenon, and explained why the intellectual order is confirmed by the experience,
and this in turn receives all the address of that security.

[185.] This harmony must have a cause, it is necessary to find a principle which can be found
sufficient reason for this remarkable agreement among so many different things, and here there
are new problems that overwhelm some other understanding and widen it and encourage him, with the
magnificent spectacle before their eyes, and the vast field that give to go.

CHAPTER XXVI.

NATURE OF THE REAL ORDER RELATIONS WITH THE GREAT.

[186.] The agreement of the idea of ??the phenomenon and reality, is it necessary, that is founded
the essence of things, or has been set free by the will of the Creator?

If the world had no more true than that expressed by the sensible
representation, if appearances included a carbon copy of the inner
essence of things, would need say that this agreement is unchangeable,
that things are nothing more than what they seem, and that assuming
they exist, must be such as they seem, and this of absolute necessity,
because that nothing can be in contradiction with its notion of incorporation.

What is now extensive, would necessarily be large, and can not fail to be the same way that it
seems to us, and under the same conditions: the relation of bodies
to each other would be necessarily subject to the same laws phenomenal:
all that was to depart from this order would be a contradiction, that
does not fall under the power or omnipotence.

[187.] The bodies appear to us in sensible intuition with amounts determined and are in some
fixed ratio, which we calculated and compared with a stationary extension, which we imagine
space. Due to the magnitude bodies occupy a certain place, also determined but changeable with movement.
On the relation of magnitudes, occupy greater or lesser place, and self-mutually exclusive:
we call this exclusion impenetrability. The question offered here is the following: the determination
of magnitudes, and the relationship of them with respect to the occupation of places, are things that
are absolutely necessary so alteration wrap your contradiction? not.

[188.] The relationship at all, considering this as a portion of pure space, does not mean nothing, for
we have already seen that this space is not more than a mere abstraction of our understanding, and
that in itself has no reality, is nothing. Then the relationship to him, is also nothing on
account of the relationship is zero when the term needed to be ordered. Then all the relations
of bodies to the places, can not be anything but relations bodies together.

[189.] This is the main point of view on these issues, the understanding is confused when it starts
by assuming the space an absolute nature, necessary relationships with all bodies. Remember
the doctrine of the chapters (XII, XIII, XIV and XV) where explains how to engender in us the
idea of ??space, which object corresponds to the reality and how, and they will see that these
relations absolute and essential, we find among the bodies and an empty capacity and real, are illusions
of our imagination, an effect that we treat not quite the ideal order,
that does not separate from sense impressions.

In these questions, you can not understand anything, not even the sense of them, if not make
an effort to achieve this separation, as far as possible to our nature. If this is achieved, the issues
I shall discuss in subsequent chapters, seem very philosophical, and its resolution, if not
true, at least plausible, but if confuse things as different as are the purely intellectual
order, and sensitive issues such seem absurd. It is unacceptable idealism that destroys the
real world, but it is nevertheless empiricism that annihilates the ideal order, if we could
not rise above representations sensitive, we should renounce the philosophy, leaving the thinking,
and limiting ourselves to feel.