 Those who were to move in with one or the other wall street were
usually black Africa, because the occupation despised native, sitting in dwarf leather chairs
with a table in front and on the hearth Buren aside. In the slab of dark stone that tended with
a wooden spoon a portion of wet corn flour that cake was a three or four ounces, and when it was
golden brown with the heat of Buren, sprinkled it over a bit of butter cows, and so warm and juicy
the offered for sale to the passer at the rate of silver through the pair. Many girls were not
unless the coach stop and compare the tortillas in San Rafael, as termed, hot still the Indian
Buren, as it seems, was like they knew better.

The occasion of all this bustle and movement was the feast of San Rafael, which falls on 24 October,
the celebration had begun, as already indicated, nine days earlier. In each One of them said
a low mass in the early hours of the morning Mass and sermon ten to twelve hours to save the
day before. During the ninth and stayed clear circular the Blessed Sacrament, and that is why the church
never seemed empty of the faithful who came from all over the neighborhood to earn a plenary
indulgence.

As stated above, small Church of the Holy Guardian Angel is seated in the narrow plain Peñapobre,
species of reef of small extent, but quite high compared to the general plane of the city. To climb it
was, and is now two steps dark, coarse stone, with rolling hills of the same: one that starts
from the bottom of the street Barracks, the other descending to the
de Compostela, which is the longest and slope.

On reaching the top of the plateau, which also has stone ledge, is on the floor Temple, whose
only craft in performance days, as of now it is discovered entire whole - the main altar in the background,
wooden altarpiece of two bodies - more than two side doors, almost hidden behind the forest of white
candles, gold and silver candlesticks, pots of artificial flowers and a profusion of shiny cardboard.
A left and right two altarpieces were less frills, the average of the front door and side and
the other half two altarpieces, each of whom is a saint venerated, usually wood carving, a
niche enclosed in glass. The roof-shaped stand, leaving bare the timbers of the frame which was
covered with red tiles, and above the arch, within which was a small choir, rose the square tower
stone up three bodies drop. To the west, behind the body church, was the sacristy, the priest's
room at once, and another stone staircase less spacious than the front, giving exit to the street
Egido, sort of dead deep, twisted and uneven that runs along the walls of houses and the ramparts
surrounding the city for the land. The patio, front, has a boardwalk masonry wall mode roof.
Because at that pier in the morning we referring to the second or third in the ninth for San
Rafael, several black carpenters were entertained to raise with pine boards, painted stone edge,
something resembling the battlements of a chateau, having already planted the flagpole and almost finished
the work principal.

The students had taken over the entire steep slope of steps and plateaus,
Leonardo Gamboa at the top, with his cane on his shoulder running
the operation, and no person was up by them some, or passing in the
street especially women, in carriages or on foot, without them having
them something to tell him yet.
