 Mercury also has the specificity of be the antidote
to the syphilitic virus, but did not attack more than in the domain system node.

One author has characterized perfectly mercury venous-lymphatic "medicinal products. This word includes
all the effects of mercury. There is no body that are not affected, because there is also
one in which not some elements of the lymphatic system as an integral part or like relationship.
As to particular organs, here is the order in which they are according to its relations with
the effects of mercury, and according to the susceptibility to be modified more easily: the
salivary glands and tonsils, uvula, soft palate, the palate, tongue, teeth, gums, pharynx and
larynx, organs genito-urinary, eyes, nose, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, liver, joints, etc.

The
progression of their influence on the nervous system is this: agitation, endolorimiento of whole body,
brokenness, weakness, tremors, convulsive movements, cramps, rigidity,
resolution of the radical forces, excitability, extremity pain sensitivity,
paralysis.

In the blood system expresses himself thus: congestive even violent movements, fluxional, Live
inflammation, burning fever, ESRD.

But in view of their symptoms, these fluxional, these swellings, the fever, are uncertain place, still
faltering, the tissues react, the blood system does not work as quickly and directly by the item
Scythians flegmásico, but in a passive way and feeling the pulse of another system, the node
is the center of action and the point of choice of drug.

The gastric system for its many symptoms: thrush, estomacace, fluxion,
depravity of taste and appetite, nausea, saliva flow of brackish water
in the mouth, vomiting, bitter hiccups, burning pain, tenderness and
swelling in the liver, stomach hard and tympanitic, cramps, diarrhea
and dysenteric ....., confirms more and more the state node orgasm
blood with more or less pronounced.

Throughout this set of symptoms, is not gastric essential character, for example, nux vomica,
but a primary condition lymphatic system in the mucous membranes and hair follicles in tissue
and cell meshes in the glands and blood vessels.

After the first prompt and quick impact of drugs on this or that organ, alteration of the nervous
system seems to exhaust its own activity, and since then all it takes chronic march towards the
decomposition, because the last term of the action of mercury is to reduce the cohesion of
the fibers, tissues soften, relax the mesh of cell sheets in which
penetrate and accumulate white juices.

The action of Mercury is to develop more power at night and in bed for the day. This sobreescitacion
of its action begins and ends the night with her, the warmth of the bed increases, the application
the cold but not decreases, and the movement aggravates the condition. It could be said that
this action essentially decompofmg, stops by the solar excitation and diurnal as if the positive
electricity of the day some influence.

The influence of mercury on the moral expresses the nature of its action: after the symptoms of irritability,
the most constant ensuing delinquency of aversion to all occupation of insulseces, and finally
the last period, as the instability and lack of harmony of ideas, the weakness of memory,
disgust to life, auto hobby. The moral solution is in contact with
physics.

Mercury is similar to Aconite in febrile conditions given consideration to the effervescence
blood. But the excitement only exacerbated in cases characteristic of mercury, the nervous excitement
or the erethism produced by the alteration of blood in the sense
impoverishment of the liquid, which is not stimulating enough to hold
plastic nervous system physiologic stability: sanguis moderator nervorum,
mercury work on the lymphatic system, such as aconite on blood pressure.

The

mercury has inflammations own analogy with the bryony, with regard to lymphatic system, but the congestion
and inflammation, mercury deployed higher acuity and faster, and soon arrives, and to suppuration,
and to a waxy buildup, and to the plastic exudation, or induration to the fatigue of the fiber.
It was also noted some analogy from fluxional mobility of mercury and pulsatility, but in the
First, this mobility extends to the nervous and lymphatic systems, and the second originally
spread to the venous blood system.

Mercury is distinguished by the vivacity of arsenic and erethism orgasm initial and the relaxation
that results immediately. Coryza, for example, soon becomes fluent, bronchitis comes to the
expectoration, the abundant flows determine intestinal phlogosis then the fever more pronounced
in a short time leads to the prostration, and stifling heat breaking into a sweat copiously.

The
action of mercury is opposite to that of sulfur, which is why it is so useful to use alternative
of the two in certain chronic conditions that need to accelerate
the course of the disease; sulfur goes to erethism blood and lymphatic
mercury.

There is disturbance to the indication of each other, and can even be said to possess the
property of exciting vitality; Opium does the same, but working directly on the nervous system.
Mercury also is in relation to the plasticity and are therefore as useful as the carbonate cal
in children whose state of lymphatic and inertia seems to prevent or blunt the action of drugs. With
regard to this matter, it is important to note that the action of
mercury varies in different organ systems depending on dose, more
than any other drug.

So So infinitesimal dose works mainly in the area nervous, in lower attenuation, also in massive
doses, works in syphilitic infection and in the vegetative sphere. This observation is one of the most
practical and applicable to all medicines in more or less scale, but is of more importance to
work in conditions designed to virulent and dyscrasias, such as mercury, sulfur, iodine, gold, iron,
potassium carbonate, lime sulfur, etc., is, in short, every day more necessary dosage comprising
all degrees of attenuation quantity of drugs, from a dose of pure substance in solution or
in a state of division it, until the dose so attenuated that only ignorant can doubt. Each
pilot can accurately ensure proper in each case, that all these doses have a real action, positive.
This fact, which is and the domain of science, is the origin of our resources and cause therapeutic
the propagation of the healing art.

Mercury has been used with the idea of ??communicating to the blood and body fluids to power
refractory to the laws of life and makes them less to own nutrition. This hypothesis does not
some practical utility. We trust that these pages will offer ideas clearer, more practical. Mercury,
toxic, alters the blood making it more fluid, less plastic, and produces cachexia particular,
is true, but you will not be used to develop antiplastics effects general, but to develop
therapeutic effects in harmony with vital actions he modifies and returns to normal as mercury,
like any other drug, develops a healing property directly and not through the medium of phenomena
toxic. These should never be alone and to the exclusion of more symptoms special dynamic and
multiple diagnostic medicine. The toxic effects by Finally, also have particular and distinctive
characters, and can not be classified under a single point of view
to form a single medication.

All mercury salts elective share in the action of mercury in the lymphatic system with the difference
that a directed more particularly its action to the gut mucosa, others to the skin, those producing
more blood orgasm, these more erethism, and some have a more marked weakness. Point out these features
in the following paragraphs aim to indications of mercury and the choice of their preparations.
We will give also the symptoms characteristic of the action of this drug to describe cases
claiming use.

The experience built up has not said its last word on some preparations mercurial and practically
speaking, is that we can not consider them as appropriate. We materialized, therefore, to
indicate the mercury vivo, soluble, calomel, corrosive sublimate,
cinnabar, the protoyoduro of mercury and the Ethiopian mineral.

Each of these preparations may have its and its moment of opportunity in various degrees of evolution
and many other syphilitic diseases.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = febrile illness. Inflammations .-- Notwithstanding the difficulties our object Insite by
the abundance of materials, it brings order to indicate conveniently
many diseases of those periods in which mercury is indicated, this
is the only way to avoid duplication and confusion.

Few own mercury fever with regular pulse, almost always there are some more or less severe strokes
than the others, and even sometimes be seen flashing; pulse irregularity always denotes respect to mercury,
a circulation disorder in in the portal vein system, and a stomach ulcer in the liver has an influence
that can not be ignored.

There is feverish orgasm on the skin surface, pulses in the temples
and superficial arteries, headache with sensation of distension from
the inside out.

The reaction is alive, but without consistency, dominates the device erethism brain and worse
at night, while he has a copious sweating, or bowel movements abundant, large bilious vomiting
and salivary secretion. It also develops large weakness, prostration, chills and heat as puffs,
anxiety without delirium itself says: this always contraindicated
mercury in nervous fevers.

Sinocan fever is characteristic of this drug, you have the following symptoms: big orgasm erethism
and anxiety is a common fever in children and young nodes, is usually the first period and
gastric catarrhal fever. Mercury also plays in the period subacute, with mucous diarrhea, pale
and trembling, not to mention anxiety. Calls for calomel a predominance of the action of the liver
or salivary gland.

In more serious cases, takes on the character fever typhoid are drowsiness, sleepiness, sweating
debilitating integument alternative turgor and some guts, endolorimiento general, burning sensation,
or decomposition of belly.

The Ethiopian sulfide ore or black Mercury is the right choice when typhoid fever was made or that
the system of life the relationship has fallen into inertia, or that the influence of the brain
looks like annihilated or that the abdominal organs are particularly affected, and that there are
senses obtuse stupor, prostration, sooty teeth, tongue and still, dry and black, bloating, pulse
frequent and very weak and yellow diarrhea, bilious.

Dr. Serres (Montpellier) and some physicians have sought to use the properties of mercury in
severe nerve fever in advanced stage, which seems to agree this medicine to natural signs,
but the result was not happy and mercury has been unable to revive the forces and oppose some
kind of solution that appeared be in relation to its effects. Most associated with the Ethiopian
sulfur mineral, mercury acquires an activity that the doctor might use Petroz admirably.

After the rhubarb and camomile, soluble mercury acetate and mercury
are better medicines for children cacoquímicos diarrhea, pale, unhealthy
nutrition, with or without fever.

These two preparations of mercury are perfectly in diarrhea of this age in life where there
are many white juice, and you have fever with drowsiness, aggravation at night, or just heat and
dryness of the mouth. Verminous fever, even serious yields to soluble mercury or alive, if
there is mucous stools, reddish, with tenesmus, burning and excoriation of the anus, earthy appearance
of the skin, excess depletion, and a great discomfort and amount of mucus obstructing the throat.
Mercury is indicated, even when developing symptoms of encephalitis
and convulsions.

In these cases, Recamier used a water in which to boil 15 grams of metallic mercury to 250
of fluid, but the crushing homeopathic are infinitely preferable.

Mercury living is perfectly suited to the period of suppuration of smallpox, both by the throat
symptoms, the condition of the nose and eyes, and restlessness, as dermis by suppuration, in opposition
to the formation of permanent scars. Only yours may sometimes exceed its elective action on
the dermis.

Mercury plays an important role in the treatment of fevers with inflammation of the mucous and slow
its course, shallowness of the affection, erethism, burning pains and tendency to diarrhea and
to ulceration.

It is equally effective in inflammatory conditions, ends when the inflammation serous exudation
or formation of false membranes, and also in suppuration, when the oozing is surrounded by
a swelling or subinflamatoria edematous, the indication is based not only on the movement
of blood breakdown or liquids that are segregated, but in the general
and local characters just to designate and differentiate it from the
bryony ... Mercury is very useful in inflammations internal surfaces
secrete a fluid that altered and periostitis in itself, a new product
which constitutes a exóstose.

Almost always, in all these circumstances, advantageous alternative with bryony mercury or with
belladonna, according to what we indicated to treat these drugs.

It has been recommended much mercury in encephalitis, or rather in the arachnoiditis, especially
at the time threatening to pass the acute hydrocephalus, ie, that this drug is for Fluxion
to the blood rather waxy, or at least during the period of inflammation it begins to separate
serum from blood. But he least thought of, is obtained best results from the first, second
or third trituration of mercury Live at the doses of 5 to 10 Celsius, that large doses of it.

In inflammation of mucous membranes, corresponding to mercury chronic phlogosis crypts follicles
and mucous hypersecretion and tendency to ulceration or induration to. In these conditions
should be counted leucorrheic vaginitis, metritis certain, laryngitis
and Most of the tonsils, and the same pseudo-membranous bronchial
colds and even whooping cough, the grippe, coryza, phthisis mucosa,
dotinenteritis, and in general all conditions follicles.

It is more necessary mercury in their treatment, since is the only way to effectively oppose elective
and indurations, calluses, scirrhus, and to ulcers that so often end these chronic phlogosis mucosal
crypts.

Mercury is indicated for the peak period of all these conditions, by analogy with the nature
and symptoms of the same key, such as anxiety or agitation, depression,
or shivering cold in the fulness of fever, aggravation of the fever
or blood erethism from the start of the night, increased sensitivity
of the affected parts endolorimiento more remarkable for the monkshood
and more blood drug because impoverished or altered blood in its vitality,
not moderated regularly and nervous action, and communicates to the
blood ferment character painful acuity, the more you live, the more
quickly spent to lead a march to chronic thrush without excepting
the children, inflammation follicles of the mucosa of the mouth and
even the entire intestinal tract, in which the cinnabar Mercury is
usually preferable to live, especially if it develops with ulceration;
borax and sulfuric acid are always useful and even necessary in the
last period thrush.

Chronic pneumonia or a tendency to chronicity by lowering the fever, even if multiple lung occupies
many points is fine with mercury alternated with bryony, very powerful means to dispel hepatization
or induration. In hepatitis perenquimatosa calomel is preferable, since in this case is directed
even from the first period phlogosis, corresponding also to all levels of hepatitis, alternatives,
according to the causes and duration of the affection, with aconite, chamomile, bryony, belladonna.

Peritonitis
and inflammation of the synovial membranes seldom fail to reclaim mercury, belladonna and bryony.
In peritonitis, the pains are alive, the sweat weak and not calm,
there is intense sensitivity of the belly, swelling and hardness,
rumbling, gas development, anxiety, yellow face and expresses deep
pain, there is less orgasm blood and nervous excitement for the bryony,
and therefore less thirsty.

Inflammation joint fit to mercury in the same way to the other two drugs, and correspond to
all phases of chronic inflammation and, being smaller, however, sensitivity or at least discomfort.

The swelling of the lymph vessels require mercury, since this affects the lymph areas and on
a given space (adenitis), and is presented along vessels White (angioleucitis) and on the inside
of a limb, as in the thigh. Belladonna in this case is a very useful auxiliary mercury, such
as when the redness pulsatility dark indicates the simultaneous affection of the veins. In these
cases, alternating the two drugs giving a dose every two hours, leaving four to six hours apart
from each other medicine.

We believe this is the occasion to insist on proper diarrhea, dysentery and mercury, which is
that there is always an affection of the mucous follicles, and from
this point view offers a course less acute or less rapidly than others.

This is the dysentery which but it is corrosive sublimate, and can be considered as specific.
The thirst indicates the first period (congestive) rarely disappears, change of object in the second
and third (softening, ulceration), the patient wants then liquor, spirits with which undergoes a
momentary relief. Here is a very important character for indication sublimate, even in this
last period, even non-essential medication ulceration, which corresponds to sulfur, calcium
carbonate, arsenic ... Corrosive sublimate has all the effects of
soluble mercury, but to a degree more energetic and more pronounced.

Mercurial is the best preparation to be used in acute disease appropriate stop and heal quickly.