 The silk industry was ruined
the competition that made the French, one after another were closed mounted workshops for
over a century old that had sustained industrial supremacy Valencia, and Don Manuel, who despite
his effort was good business sense to keep stubbornly fighting with the outside world and suffered
huge losses died of a tantrum before that the ruin came to crown his desperate resistance.

Inherited approximately seventy thousand dollars in cash, genres and individual property Friar's
children, and as the eldest son remained with the manor house, pleased with his position and
willing to increase the inherited, Dona Manuela, to be rich, just thought-out their state of
shopkeeper.

For her, the society was divided into two classes: those who go on foot and spend carriage; those
at home with large yard wide gate and enter through narrow stairs or dark backroom. I wanted
to climb, jump from the class of outcasts devoted to work to the "decent people", and with
the rule and conciseness of the absolute mistress not support replication, her husband explained
the future plan of life. Since the dependent older Antonio Cuadros, was married to Teresa, the
maid, and for having some thought nest egg established, which would keep the gift shop and Eugene,
who wanted to end his life caught to it like glue. The transfer price already paid would gradually
Antonio, and they lifted the flight immediately to go to make a nest in a large house near the Market
a magnificent estate, with wide portal, large patio blocks deep, and on the top floor great
rooms; property that the deceased had acquired Fraile for little money, paying thundered a count usurious.

Everything
was as ordered by Dona Manuela, and this, a few days, remembered
as a dream six-year stay in the tent on the market and can be considered
happy limousine ride in the Alameda and having a servant to his orders
to send to recaditos new friends, wives and military judges, ladies
which, being rich, treated with a patronizing air.

The only thing sad was his greatness in the character of the husband. Poor Don Melchor! Purgábala
wealth as a crime, and his life of idle rentier and walking companion and ceremonies resultábale
hell.

Since morning I had to endorse his coat and hat, to be willing to accompany the lady, was heard
calling at all hours of awkward because in the closed visits mouth,
or if it was opened to release the naivety and openness to remember
their origin y. ..

Unbearable torment oh! Your not allowed Manolita never take off the gloves and even I wanted
to dine with them to go - as she said - accustomed to the use of people elegant. And the daily
walk on the Alameda ...! God, how embarrassment! She had commitment to engage great friends,
and did not go near his saloon without authority or person known to Melchor solemnly salute
him with a knee sombrerazo, flushing many times see the gesture of surprise that those who replied
to the reverence of an entity unknown. It's that mirasen as a rare bird was not in his character,
but had Manolita fear and angry that housed pinching their disobedience.

Poor Don Melchor! How expensive it was hard to be married to a rich and beautiful women! Bored
the treatment of some people who could not understand, his wife spoke only to give new torments,
and only felt happy when, as the nines, fled house, searching the
market to their old friends.

He looked great according to his new position. Manolita loved and did not want to tell the truth
about his character, but the wily Don Eugenio not worth pretending.

-
Look, boy, you fool us.

No, you're not happy ... though I swear. You have, as I, blood dealer, and get us out of this counter
and our customs, we kills.

Surely, now, being rich, getting up late and walking in a carriage, you remember envious of
the time that lowered your sweeping the shop at six o'clock and threw our a paragraph with
the maids who will purchase. I know what it's like .... Ah! That Manuela ...! That Manolita! The
other day he told me his brother. She has to kill you, and you're on way. You can not shoot with
a life .... New cage, dead bird.

And these prophecies funeral, which, quite frankly, to the Aragonese,
the unhappy espeluznaban Melchor, the meeting went slowly.

Don Melchor visibly languishing. His good humor was gone in June with the colors of his face,
a greasy yellow obesity swell his body, and finally, a year after leaving the store, died while
doctors know for sure the disease. It was something liver, heart or stomach; about it agreed not
doctors; the only thing was indisputable that fell languidly and without noise, as these birds
to whom the traitor loop space starts to lock them in a cage.

It was a dismal mourning of Dona Manuela. Hundreds Masses, funerals full orchestra, alms in
abundance, and tears and wailing that fortunately had the power to prevent its funny phrases
Dr. Don Rafael Pajares, who, as a famous physician, had been called in recent days of the illness
of her husband, raising the languor this and his desperate despair.

Dona Manuela knew it was not very successful presence in the first ex-boyfriend days of her widowhood.
But in the end it was his cousin, and was so fondly the fatherless Johnny, with such things
cheer the little boy knew that he could not go without uncle Rafael.

Who else murmured against such visits was Don Juan, brother austere, sullen and neat righteousness,
but his complaints were received so bitterly, that ended up vowing
never to put foot in that house.

It was the doctor who owned the land. Was so accommodating, they entertain the nephew did not hesitate
to shed their professional dignity, and the maids heard sounds in the guitar room and the voice
of Don Rafael singing the song from its heyday as a student.

First only visited the widow in the afternoon, then continued the interviews, leaving the house at
midnight, and finally came a day when it came out.

Don Eugenio and Don Juan were outraged, saying that he knew perfectly well Fraile his daughter,
and although the two had little affection for the doctor, experienced some satisfaction knowing
that the widow and married cousin just passed the limit set by law.

After three months of marriage had a daughter, Conchita, a year after a boy who They named Rafael,
and finally, the youngest, Amparo, last fruit of a love affair that became extinct after rapid
and intense flame.

The marriage was conducted shortly after a source of satisfaction for Don Juan, which although he
hated his sister was glad of his misfortunes, daughters of unpredictability.

Rafael's cousin, a lover of pleasure angry and forced to suppress their desires in the atmosphere
of sordid greed that had brought up, threw himself fearlessly to satiate their appetites to be owner
of the fortune of his wife. Contingency Dona Manuela loving owner made him all of the house,
and soon make their tyranny.

Selfish to the brutality, was wasteful for pleasure and ferocious
when it came to mean the needs of others.

Found ridiculous the aristocratic tastes of his wife, and removed a despot. He sold the carriage
and horses, and Dona Manuela, demanding that was shown on display with her first husband,
and gladly obeyed orders servile the second. Unaware that the man so miserly in spending of the
money threw home beyond, and covering with the veil of hypocrisy, led a life of skull, such
as he had dreamed in his youth.

The blindness of the wife lasted a few years. When he learned the whole truth, had a moment of anger
and courageous act of protest, as in giving her hand to Melchor, but it was too late to remedy the
evil.

The doctor had played hard, losing thousands of dollars; held dear by pure costly undertook
glitz and fun trips throughout Spain with bold fellow Bure.

Dona Manuela's fortune was almost destroyed. Her husband, loving moments of expansion, when she
felt more subject, Tell them started and had to incriminating signatures pay, on pain of seeing
their assets seized. To head to her husband - as she said - he returned to his former charges,
the fake show that there was a fortune; contracted, on the other
hand, debts and guided by the deceptive sense of honor of the people
who are ruined, Instead of selling farms and being launched, preferring
to tax their property with mortgages and lie in the arms of usury,
seeking overwhelming interest loans.

Fortunately, a number of diseases from Dr. dissolute life emerged in his worn body, and died
when he and his wife, if not hated, could be seen separate provided him for his infidelities and
detours.

Rafael cousin's death made Don Juan back to his sister's house and to deign to address in their
affairs. With his keen eye for the practical man, put order in the welter: sold farms, canceled
mortgages, paid with hard money lenders despite these, they wanted
to see run interest to devour the client, and finally one day he could
say to his sister:

- Look, girl, you have free and healthy you have
left, but I warn you that you are not rich.

You, at most, twenty thousand dollars, plus eight thousand who belong to Johnny, as the inheritance
his father.

Gone, then, the madness. Now a lot of great order and economy, so you can going. Above all,
count me in distress. If you were poor you tend the hand; but you have to eat, and I do not
like the wasteful shelter. No more berlinitas and other expenses
which it appears that you do not.

A fixed life, spending according to income, is decent and dignified. That swagger, this desire
to appear with four quarters what people call "rice and trap" is ridiculous ... Do you understand
it? supremely ridiculous.

Doña Manuela felt himself impressed by the advice of his brother,
and followed them for a long time scrupulously.

Devoted himself to raising their children, ie children from his second marriage, for poor Johnny
had always been treated with false affection, with a detour disguised as Dona Manuela wanted revenge
on the poor kid to have been owned by his late father.

That woman was incomprehensible.

The faithful and caring husband just appointed him as if the marriage had been a few days, and
instead of that skull that both did suffer after death had forged an ideal figure, and if not
of its virtues, spoke to all of his talent, painting him as a distinguished
scholar, whose science was unable to appreciate the world.

The poor son of Melchior, with his timid and gentle nature and his desire for love, was the
pariah of the house.

The doctor, seeing him always quiet, watching her mother with stupid worship stated that the child was
so gross as his father, and at best could serve the trade. And as the boy, for his part, he had
great affection and a certain fondness Eugenio Las Tres Rosas, which was where they had spent
the first years of his life, hence Johnny, at age thirteen, entered the shop as an apprentice
distinguished, with the advantage of eating and sleeping at home.

In contrast, children of Dr. Pajares enjoyed a childhood surrounded
by care.

The two daughters were up to fourteen years in a school and Rafaelito was dedicated to the study,
as Dona Manuela v wanted to make it a medical luminary like his father.

These predilections irritated Don Juan, who had felt a brotherly affection
for his first brother, tireless worker as he and a friend of savings.

In addition, Johnny was his godson. But silent sister was still watching the economic advice
and - in his words - no stretch his foot out of the sheet.

But there came a time when the girls have become among girls, while
keeping their relationships friendly with her former schoolmates,
and Dona Manuela felt the urge to show off of every mother who has
marriageable daughters.

Renewed their furniture, left the anonymous dressmakers, and his
desire not to walk on foot, if you did not saloon and brainstem as
in good times, bought ligerita elegant galley and took as nelet coachman's
son's nurse Amparo a barbaric, orchard, who called his condition is
not Miss tutear less and forget that was his foster brother.

- Raging
that stale! - Dona Manuela said, shocked to know the fury with which
his brother had welcomed such reforms -.

Do you think that all we have to spend life as miserable, with bread and onions and an old dress?

Don
Juan also spoke, and had to hear.

- Your mother is crazy - sometimes Juanito said at the door of the Three Roses -. If this still more
time, all will go begging. Ah, what a head ...! It seems impossible my sister! For her the main
thing is to pretend, and tomorrow the devil agreed.

The I say: "rice and trap ..." and later trap.

III

The first day of the year, at eight o'clock, Concha y Amparo had left the bed, strange diligence
on them, which usually did not rise till ten.

Clothing ligerita despite the season, flew happily in his room, which offered arousal disorder,
around the two small beds in immaculate white, in his wrinkled linens kept the heat on young
bodies and the perfume of health and life-breathing healthy meats and virginal.

Chirped cheerfully, like birds they attract, but their songs could not be more vulgar.

- Where are my boots?

- My middle ... I need one .... Have you hidden yourself?

- Oh, God ...! I have a broken link!

And so the dialogue loose exclamations, cries and protests, while the two youth, in jacket and
petticoat, showing every drop pink nakedness, were on one side to another, dazed by the warm and
heavy in the room closed.

Then they went to the toilet, a small room where the light from the window, after slipping on beveled
moon a large mirror, glass quebrábase in the blue or pink powder compacts and vials of essence.
The piece was not a model of curiosity and gave away the clutter of a house where no counsel.
Kept shell combs his spikes caught in tangles hair, many bottles were chipped, and the white
marble had formed clumps by the mass of drops of oil to the waste of powder.

The two girls dropped their hair long and waving like flags; sacudiéronlos making fall on the marble
in a shower of metal pins, then, what good sisters, ayudáronse each other in the difficult task
of combing a day of ceremony.

The moon clearly portrayed in their heads slightly bluish background of the two sisters, the
loose hair and dressed in white, like opera sopranos at the time of going crazy and sing the final
aria.

Their faces were no big deal, would have been insignificant but for the eyes, some Valencia real eyes
that they ate much of your face, torn, lighting, no background, with insolent curiosity sometimes
languid other, and surrounded by the eyecup faint blue aura of passion.

Most, Conchita, twenty-three, was more like her mother. Had the same stately, and she began to start in
the beginning of fat, which made her look older. At home he enjoyed a reputation for violent
temper, and to Dona Manuela treated her with some reservations to avoid his angry explosions,
but otherwise was seductive, with its freshness Rubens and meat to the arched lines delatábanse
every move under the white cloth.

A minor, Amparo, eighteen years; cute baby's head, mouth, funny, dimpled
chin and cheeks, a handful of curls on his forehead and eyes that
seemed to smile instead of looking all, revealing the immense happy
to be young and the call pretty. It was the scarf House, Miss stunned
to learn of all do not know anything that the street I could not see
a ridiculous figure without bursting into loud laughter, which had
in their tastes some very formal guy and claimed that he felt pleasure
in teasing men, the escaping every moment of living, to go to the
kitchen to chat with the maids, enjoy to be his amanuensis, just inserted
in the letters to the soldier boyfriend terrible atrocities, I was
laughing the whole week.

Profesábanse great affection the two sisters,
but this did not prevent sometimes wield Amparo mocking his character
from this shell and birth sacase angry impetuosity; conflicts always
ended by going small to find mom, crying, with a red cheek slap or
a pair of pinching arms. Sometimes armed themselves for war if one
is had white clothes of the other or if they had stolen items of its
exclusive membership; but a gust of authority passed through the mother,
was slapped, tears and tantrums, the maids laughing in the kitchen,
and half an hour all so happy: Shell on the balcony, Amparo ran through
the house singing like a lark, and Dona Manuela arrellanábase in his
chair with sovereign air just straight administer justice.

Both groups
offered a seductive looking in the dresser mirror, bare-chested, with
arms in the air and smelling meat cooled by a brave cold water washing.