 When walking on foot represented truly the wise one teacher who is leaving
drip the stream of his science, the other a fiery newcomer eager to learn and penetrate it covers
his eyes.

- Where are we going? - Casually asked Castro to reach all four streets.

- Man, we had not stayed married for Calderon's house? - Said shyly
and slightly disgruntled Ramon.

- Ah! yes, I forgot.

Councilman Young Greasy silence, admiring in his heart that singular
power to forget all that had his friend.

And followed by the Carrera de San Jerónimo hguardoa Puerta del Sol

- How are you with Esperanza? - Deigned to ask Castro, releasing a
puff of smoke and stopping to look at a showcase.

Ramon suddenly turned serious, almost, almost pale, and began to babble stumbled:

- So, boy .... As soon as the top and bottom .... Some days I find it very nice ... ie, friendly, no,
but less talkative. Others with a nose three yards: leaves when I enter, just answer the greeting,
as if he had offended .... I understand that some have had reason to be angry. Real soil in
the box go to Gamboa, and I think he has it in his head .... I like Rosaura For you see what
nonsense! Rosa! ... But at least one month does not go up to greet ... and the same, the same kid,
same! ... The other day I could catch one in the cabinet a few moments, and I have hastily
said he wanted to know what stayed. Because you see, not a thing to be doing Bear forever .... I
listened patiently .... I warn you that I was completely taken and hardly knew what she was
saying. When I finished he said he had no reason to be angry and ran into the room. After that
who had not understood that was the case fixed? Let's see, either in my case do not think we
were going to enter the field formality? ... Nothing, after two days I go there, try to talk separately
as Groom and gives me a snort that froze me .... And so I am.

I do not know if I want or if you leave loving me, and I have peace of mind to pursue my chores
and do nothing but think in that damn girl.

- I think - said Castro while carefully consider the window against
which were - that this girl I had taken the action.

Ramon looked surprised and respectful at the same time.

- How the
action - he ventured to ask.

- Yes, the action.

What is important in any fight, is to take the action to the contrary. If when he thinks you attack
you attack with determination, it is almost certain to arrive. If hesitate are lost.

As he uttered the last words he left to contemplate the window and
continued his majestic march the sidewalk.

Ramon did the same.

Had misunderstood the application that could have this simile started to fencing where appropriate,
but refrained from asking for explanations.

- So you think ...?

- I think you're too in love with this girl and
she knows it.

- But let's see, Joe, what reasons may have to reject
me? - Began to say sulphide Ramon and as if speaking to himself -.
What do you expect this girl? ... His father have money, but will
give away several brothers. Mariana is young, and when least thought
has begun to take over the world children. Besides, you know how Julian.