 

On top of these three doors, a lush Gothic rose the second body, architecture Greco-Roman and most modern
construction, causing the same trouble Gabriel Luna if a discordant trumpet interrupt the
course of a symphony. Jesus and the twelve apostles all natural size, were sitting at the table,
each in its niche above the cover the center, bounded by two buttresses and towers that left
the front in three parties. Extended beyond its arcades two galleries of Italian palace, the More
than once they had looked when he played Gabriel, as a child in the home of Ringer.

"The wealth of the church - thought Luna - was bad for art.

In a temple had been poor preserved the uniformity of the old facade. But when the archbishop of
Toledo had eleven million income and some more on council, and no one knew how to make money,
were initiated works, reconstructions were done, and art as decadent dinner daubs pariah. "

Then rose the third body, two large archways that gave birth to the rosette nave, crowned all
by a stone railing pierced followed the windings the front between the two masses outgoing
protect it: the tower and the Mozarabic chapel.

Gabriel ceased his contemplation, seeing that he was not alone at the temple. Was almost daily.
Touching the fence passed some women with bowed head and blanket over his eyes. In tiles of the
pavement sounded the crutches of a cripple, and beyond the tower, under the great arc which connects
the archbishop's palace with the cathedral, the beggars reuníanse to take place in the cloister
door. Devotional and paupers were unknown. Were all morning the first occupants of the temple.
This meeting provided them some day fraternity, and between coughs and coughs were lamenting
the cold morning and I take it that Ringer was going down to the
church.

A door opened beyond the arc of the Archbishop of the stairs leading to the tower and the upper
cloister rooms occupied by employees of the temple. A man crossed the street waving a large
bunch of keys, and surrounded by the early bird customers began open the door of the lower
cloister, narrow and pointed as a loophole. Gabriel was known: Marian was the ringer, and could
prevent him, he remained motionless in the square Let it burst through
the door of people eager Muffin penetrate Primate, as if they could
steal the site.

Finally he decided to follow them, and down the seven steps of the cloister, as the cathedral, built
in a ravine, is lower than the surrounding streets.

Everything was the same. Along the walls, large frescoes depicting Bayeu and Maella work and
the greatness of San Eulogio, his preaching in the land of the Moors and the cruelties of people
who cheat large turban and huge mustache to hit the saint. On the inside Muffin's door, the dreadful
martyrdom Child of La Guardia, the legend was born at while in many
Catholic nations in the heat of anti-Semitic hatred: the sacrifice
of Christian children by Jews of grim degustation, which is stolen
from home and crucify him to rip the heart and drink his blood.

The humidity was peeling and removing much of the fictional painting that fringed the warhead as a book
cover, but Gabriel still saw the ugly face of the Jew as the foot of the cross and another fierce
gesture with the knife in his mouth, bends down to give the heart
of the little martyr theatrical figures more than once had troubled
her dreams child.

The garden, which stretches between the four gates of the cloister, showed in winter Hellenic
vegetation tall laurels and cypresses, its branches passing between the gates they close on five
arches on each side until the height of the capitals. Gabriel looked over while the garden,
which is higher than the cloister. His face was at the level of the land that once his father had
worked. Finally back to see that corner of vegetables; become the patio garden by the canons
of other centuries. His memory had accompanied him when walking in the vast Bois de Boulogne
and the Hyde Park in London.

For him, garden of the Cathedral of Toledo was the most beautiful gardens, to be first I had
seen in his life.

The beggars sitting on the steps of the door looked at him curiously,
not daring out his hand.

Do not know if that stranger early riser, with ragged coat, hat worn and old boots, was a curious
or seeking a job site of the cathedral to demand alms.

Annoyed by this intelligence, Luna went on to the cloister, past the two doors that put you
in touch with the temple. The call of the presentation, all-white stone, is a lively art shows Plateresque
which a gem engraved with fanciful decorations and cheerful toy. Then came the back of the stairwell
by which Archbishops down from his palace to the church, a wall of reeds and large Gothic shields,
and almost single storey, the famous "stone of light", thin sheet of transparent marble as a glass
that illuminates the stairway and the admiration of the rustic main
visiting the cloister.

Then the door of Santa Catalina, black and gold, with rich foliage polychromatic, castles and
lions in the jambs and two statues of prophets.

Gabriel walked a few steps, seeing the inside by opening the shutter of the cover. It was the sexton,
who had just round the temple, opening all doors.

A big dog came craning his neck as if it were to: barking from hunger,
then, two men his cap down over his eyebrows, wrapped in layers of
brown locker.

Ringer said the gate to come out.

- Well, good morning, Mariano! - Said one of them by way of farewell.

- Good God give us the ... and sleep well.

Gabriel admitted to the night guards of the cathedral. Locked in the temple from the previous
evening, they retired to their homes to sleep. The dog began the journey of the Seminar to
devour the leftovers of the students, until you look for guards to lock again.

Luna down the steps of the home and entered the cathedral. He had hardly stepped on the tiles the
pavement, his face felt the cold touch and a bit sticky in that environment cellar. In the temple
was still dark. Above, stained glass hundreds of windows, staggered, giving birth to the five
ships, shining with the light of dawn. They were like magic flowers that opened at the first light
of day. Below, among the huge pillars that formed a forest of stone, there was darkness, torn
in places by red spots and flickering of the lamps that burned in the chapel shaking the shadows.
The bats flew at the head of the columns, wanting to extend a few moments his possession of
the temple, until it leaked by windows on the first ray of sun. Flew over the heads of the devotees
who, kneeling before the altars, praying out loud, satisfied to be in the cathedral at that hour
as at home. Others spoke to the acolytes and other temple servants who were entering all doors,
sleepy and stretching as workers who come to the workshop.

In the glided dark black stains some mantle path of the sacristy, stopping large genuflecting
before each image, and far away, invisible in the dark, guessed the sexton, a sprite tirelessly
for the sound of his keys and the creaking of doors that was opening.

Waking the temple.

It sounded like cannon fire hits the door, repeating the echo ship by ship. A broom began to sweep
through the part of the sacristy, producing noise of a great hill. The church rang with the blows
of some altar boys shook dust to the famous choir stalls. Cathedral seemed to stretch the nerves
excited: tore the rub less whining.

The cold was more intense in the church than outside it. Uníase to low temperature humidity
of soil crossed by drainage culverts, the ooze of hidden underground ponds, that stained the
pavement and was coughing to the canons in the choir, "shortening the life, "as they said plaintively.

The
morning light began to spread by ships. Out of the shadow the immaculate whiteness of the Cathedral
of Toledo, the sharpness of its stone, which makes it the most cheerful and beautiful temples.
Is marked with all its elegant and slim the eighty bold eight sturdy
pillars of columns you boldly cutting up the space, white as if snow
were solidified, and spread and intertwine to hold their nerve vaults.

At the top is opened the large windows, with windows that seem gardens magical light covered
with flowers.

Gabriel was sitting on the base of a pillar between two columns, but a few moment had to stand.
The moisture of the stone cold tomb circulating throughout the Cathedral, he penetrated to the
bone. Wandered the aisles, calling attention of the devotees, who interrupted their prayers to
him. A stranger at that hour, they were the relatives of the church,
excited his curiosity.

The Ringer is crossed several times with him, following him with anxious eyes, as if they inspire
little confidence that unknown miserable aspect of the time wandering the riches of the chapels can
not be monitored.

Another man met him near the altar. Luna knew him. Eusebio was the sacristan the chapel of the
Tabernacle, the Blue Lady, as it was called among the people of the Cathedral by the light blue
suit he wore in the days of ceremony. Six years after going Gabriel since he was last time,
and had not forgotten his bulk buttery face gritty, rough, narrow
front, lined with tufts of hair, and bull neck, which only if he could
breathe, turning their aspirations into a puff of steam.

All employees living in the upper cloister envied his position, being the most productive and
for the favor it enjoyed around the archbishop and the canons.

The Blue regarded the temple as their own, come close to throwing it to the that inspired antipathy.
When you see a bum walking around the church, he noticed insolent
eyes, making an effort to raise their eyebrows raised.

Where had he seen to that rare bird? Gabriel noted his effort to focus the memory, and avoided
being examined turning back to look with attention to a false altar placed on a pillar.

Fleeing the wary curiosity aroused by its presence in the temple, left the cloister. There was
better, completely isolated. The beggars sitting on the steps chatting Muffin's door. Passing
through them priests, wrapped in his cloak, entering hastily in the cathedral by the door of the
Presentation. The beggars were greeted by name, not reach out. Were known, were in the house,
and between friends are not beggar.

They were there to fall on outsiders, and waited patiently for hours of 'English', because
only in England could be all foreigners coming from Madrid on the morning train.

Gabriel stood near the door, knowing that she entered the living in the upper cloister. Crossed
the bow of the Archbishop, and following the open staircase in the palace, down the street,
entering the cathedral through the door of Muffin. Luna, who knew all the history of the famous
temple, recalled the origin of the name of the gate. Primarily Justice was called, because it gave
audiences the vicar general of the Archdiocese. Then called the muffin, because every day after the
mass, the supplier, with acolytes and vergers, it appeared to bless the half-pound loaves or muffins
which were distributed among the poor.

Six hundred bushels of wheat - he remembered Luna - were spent every year in this charity: but
it was at the time that the cathedral was paid every year more than eleven million income.

Gabriel bothering prying eyes of the clergy and devout women who entered the church. People
were accustomed to see every day, always the same, at the same time,
and felt stirred his curiosity when a strange face altered the monotony
of their existence.

Retreating to the bottom of the cloister, though some words you did beggars back.

- Here comes the old wooden wand.

- Good morning, Mr. Esteban!

A small man, dressed in black and shaved as a cleric, came down the
steps.

- Stephen ...!

...!-- Esteban Luna said to stand between him and the door of the
Presentation.

The Wooden Staff looked at him with eyes that seemed to Amber liabilities
eyes, man used to stay long hours in the cathedral without the slightest
thought rebellion came to disturb their blissful immobility.

He hesitated a long time, like I can not believe the remote likeness
of that face pale and gaunt with one that existed in his memory, but
finally became convinced of the identity with painful surprise.

-
Gabriel ...!, my brother!

But how are you?

And his face rigid Temple server, which seemed to have taken the immobility of the pillars and
statues, is animated with an affectionate smile.

The two, shaking hands, turned away by the faculty.

When you come ...? But where have you been ...? What life is yours? Why have you come?

The Wooden Staff expressed his surprise with incessant questions, without giving time to his brother
to answer.

Gabriel said his arrival in the night before his tenure at the church since before dawn, waiting
to see her brother.

- I come from Madrid, but first I have been to many places: in England,
France, in Belgium, who knows where?

I drove from one town to another, always fighting hunger and the cruelty of men. I follow the
steps poverty and police. When I stop overwhelmed by the existence of the Wandering Jew, Justice,
on behalf of the fear, I cry on the go, and return to a start. I am a terrible man, and I see,
Stephen: ill, his body ruined by old age and the certainty of dying
soon.

Yesterday, in Madrid, told me he would go back to jail if prolonged my stay there, and the Later
I took the train. Where to go? The world is big, but for me and other rebels like me shrinks,
compresses, to not let an inch of land on which to put your feet. On earth I have only you and
this peaceful and quiet corner where you live happy. Come looking for you; if you reject me,
I have no place to die than jail or hospital, if they want greet him as my name.

And Gabriel, fatigued by his words, coughed painfully, echoing his chest as if the air slips by
winding caverns. He spoke vehemently, moving instinctively arms, as a man long accustomed to
public speaking time, burning with the flame of proselytism.

- Oh, brother ... brother! - Stephen said with a look of gentle reproach -. What have you served
as reading newspapers and books? Why this desire to fix what is good or if it is wrong can not
be fixed ...? Quietly follow your path, you would be benefited of the cathedral, and who knows
if you sit in the choir, between the canons, to honor and under the
family ...!

You always had bad head, just as you are the smartest between us. Cursed talent leads to such
misery ...!

What I have suffered, brother aware of your stuff! What disappointments from the last time you spent
here! I thought you contented and happy in Barcelona printing, editing books, he was Sueldazo
a fortune compared with what we earn. Something I read your name
scaled so often in the newspapers, together with those meting in calling
for the distribution of all death religion and family, and I do not
know how many more blunders. The companion moon has said, Luna's partner
has done that, and I hid from the people of the house that such partner
were you, guessing that would end up so crazy bad, necessarily evil
.... Then ... after came the pumps.

- I had nothing to do with it
- Gabriel said in a sad voice -. I am a theorist: abominable action
as premature and inefficient.

- I know, Gabriel. I always believed
you innocent. You so good, so sweet, small amazed us all your goodness,
you were going to saint, as I said our poor mother!, kill you! And
so treacherously, through artifacts of hell ...! Jesus