 

Before our very eyes continues the work of denudation of the rocks with surprising activity. There
are mountains composed of incoherent materials that melt and dissolve see, shall we say well. Abrense
alfoces on the slopes of the mountain and gaps in the middle of the ridge, crossed by avalanches
and stormy waters the mass, once a lonely, little is divided by little in two distinct peaks,
which seem to get away from one another as it digs deeper the gulf that separates them.

Especially in spring when the soil is soaked with melting snow, the craters, piles, erosions reached such
proportions that the whole mountain seems to be apart and take the path of the plain.

A hot day wet and soft, I had gotten into an administrative district of the mountain to see
again snow before the spring waters carry. Continued to obstruct the bottom of the creek, but
in many places were covered remains unknown because blackish mixed with mud. The slate rocks that
seemed to dominate the administrative district turned into a kind of pasta and collapsed into
broad sheets. The black background is filtered through the walls Gorge sank with a dull splash in
the snow half liquid. Looked everywhere dirty snow falls and remains, and I wondered if some
instinctive fear, split the rocks as the snow itself, they would go above the valley unite in one mass
viscous pouring in the distance across the field. The torrent, which I discerned in some sites,
wells in which funds were abismado the upper layers of snow, perished transformed in a river
of ink covering the spoil waters, was that a huge mass of mud moving. Instead of clear sound and happy
we used to hear, the continuous stream launched mujido, the debris of colliding with each other
and rolled on his bed. In the spring, the annual renewal time land is when you see one as it is
verified that prodigious destructive work.

In addition, immense and invisible work is produced in the same stone.

All the changes caused by meteors are only exterior modifications, the intimate transformations
verified within the molecules of the rock have at least equally important results. While the
mountain changes constantly looking out, making the inside a structure new, and spun them change their
composition. Taken together, the mountain is a huge natural laboratory where they work all the
physical and chemical forces, using task for a sovereign agent is not available to men: time.

For
now, the enormous weight of the mountain, equal to hundreds of thousands of tons, weighs so powerfully
over the rocks below, which gives many of them look very different
which had to leave the sea.

Little by little, under the formidable pressure, shale and other shale formations are arranged in
sheets. Over the centuries thousands and thousands of that take place, the molecules are compressed
into thin leaflets that can be easily separated later, when after a geological revolution,
to be brought back to the surface rock. The action of terrestrial heat, which to a certain distance
at least, grows with depth, also contributes to changing the structure of rocks. This is how they became
the limestone in marble.

But not only come, they separate and molecules are grouped differently from the rocks, as physical
conditions encountered during the course of centuries, but also change
the composition of the rocks in a continuous run, a constant journey
of bodies site to move, mingle and prosecuted.

The water that penetrates all the cracks in the thickness of the mountain and steam rising from
the depths in deep, serve as principal vehicle to those elements that attract and repel then
carried away by the whirlwind geologic life. A crystal glass to another check in the recesses of
the mountain, iron, copper, silver and gold to replace the clay or with lime. The rock mate
acquires rainbow of the many substances that enter it. By the change in place of carbon, sulfur
and phosphorus, conviértese lime in marl, dolomite and crystalline speculum, in consequence of these
combinations the rock swells or shrinks, and slow speeds are verified within the mountain. Soon
the stone, squeezed into narrow space sick, lifts and separates top courses, brings down huge canvases,
and slow efforts, the results are equal to those in powerful explosion in a new way brings the
rocks of the mountain. Ora stone contracts, now splits, and opens in caves, and in galleries,
and verified large subsidence, thus altering the external appearance and the mountain. Each
modification close to the composition of the rock corresponds to a change in relief. The mountain
meet within itself all the geological revolutions. Has grown for thousands of centuries, has
decreased, during the same time, and succeed in their endless rows all the phenomena of growth
and decrease, of formation and destruction, which take place on earth in greater proportion.
The history of the mountain is that of the planet continued destruction, endless renewal.

Every rock summarizes a geologic period. In this mountain as graceful profile, which arises from
the land with noble attitudes, we would believe to see the work of a day, so much the unity of whole,
and therefore is presenting the details to the general harmony. And yet, this mountain has been
carved for a million centuries. There, former recounts the very old
granite ages that had not covered the ground slag plant fiber.

The egnesia that formed perhaps the time had not yet born animals and plants, says that when
Ocean left on its shores, had already been demolished by the waves some mountains. The slate
slab which preserves the bones of an animal, or only a slight mark, says the history of countless
generations that have followed on the ground in the ongoing battle of life: traces of footprint we
speak of those huge forests, represented after his death by light layers of coal, the limestone
cliff, crowding animals revealed by the microscope, makes us go to work the crowds of bodies inhabited
the ocean depths, the waste of all kinds remind us of stormwater snow, the glaciers, streams,
cleaning up the mountains as they do today and changing from one century to the scene of his activity.

When
you think of all these revolutions, in those incessant transformations in the continuum phenomena
that occur in the mountains, in the role it plays in overall life land and the history of mankind
is the first poets to understand that with the base Pamir or the Bolor, told myths which have led
all the rest. Dícennos the mountain is a creative, poured water on the plains and sends fertilizing
food silt, with the help of the sun, gives birth to plants, animals and men; da flowers in the desert
and planting happy cities. According to ancient legend Hellenic, which gave rise to the forests
and shaped the land was Eros, the god eternally young, firstborn
chaos, nature constantly renewed, the god of eternal love.

CHAPTER VII

Landslides # #

Becomes not only the mountain plain by erosion that make you suffer rain icy, slippery snow
and avalanches; also considerable fragments are torn violently to sink suddenly. Often such a
disaster in parts of the mountain where strata, straightened or bent,
are far apart from each other by different materials nature that water
can soften or dissolve.

If these substances come to intermediate disappear, the courses which
have no support in the valley will collapse sooner or later.

Beside the large pits, formed after fallen these remains, a hill,
a hill or to a high mountain.

A high peak, to which I liked to climb the lofty isolation and beauty its edges, had always seemed
to me (as the main summit) independent rock subject by their deep foundations to the underlying
land, and it was not, however, rather than a detached of the neighboring mountain. I met him
one day in the position of the layers and the appearance of flat visible fracture in the two
walls still relevant. The mass that had collapsed it villages, fields, forests and pastures,
had done after the break, rather than turn on its base and turn on
itself.

One side was buried in the ground, and the other side was partly uprooted. By fall it had
closed the exit of a valley, and the stream, which once flowed peacefully by his background, he
had to become to blind the lake basin that was locked and where to download today becomes current and
successive cascades. No doubt these changes occurred before they occupied the country because tradition
has not preserved the event. The geologist is the villager who has history of their own mountain.

As
to the minor landslides, falling rocks to those that unprocessed apparently the appearance of
the region, no longer destroy the grass, or crush the villages with their inhabitants, not the
mountain need to describe them, but unfortunately tired times have seen such terrible events.
Generally I usually know in advance. The momentum inside the mountain that works, incessantly vibrates
stones whole wall torn pebbles are separated first half and roll jumps along slopes; masses greater
weight, carried in his turn, continue to the stones, drawing as these powerful curves in the spaces,
then it is up to canvases whole rock, all what to crumble break the ties that bound the interior of
the mountain system, and awful hail of rocks suddenly falls on the
plain rocked.

The noise is indescribable; seems to struggle a hundred hurricanes. Even in the middle of the day,
pieces of rock, mixed with dust, topsoil and plant fragments, completely darken the sky. And
sometimes, lightning casualties caused by rocks that give each other, spring from the darkness.
After the storm, when the mountain is not clear from the plain of broken rock, when the atmosphere
is clear again, the inhabitants of the respected fields approach to contemplate the disaster.
Houses and gardens, fences and pastures have disappeared under the horrible chaos of stones: there
is also the eternal sleep sleeping friends and relatives. Some mountaineers me told that, in
its valley, a village destroyed twice by these avalanches of stones, has been built for the third
time in the same place. The people would have liked to run away and choose wide valley to his
home, but wanted to welcome any nearby town or assign land; have had to remain under threat of hanging
rocks. Every night some chimes remind the past terrors and warned the fate that might fit them
overnight.

Many rocks that are collapsed amid dire fields are legends, others there whose prey escaped.
One of those huge boulders, bending, and the embedded base everywhere on the floor, stands beside
the road. To admire its magnificent proportions, powerful mass, its fine grain, I felt some fear.
A Veredilla that depart from the road, going right to the foot of a formidable stone. There
were about debris piled up dishes and coal, the garden fence stopped abruptly in the rock and
acirates vegetables, half overrun with grass, surrounded on one side of the huge mass.

Who was chosen as whimsical place to establish a garden there and to leave then? Little by little
I understood. The trail, the coal pile, the garden had belonged then crushed to a hut on the
rock.

I learned later that night collapse one man slept in the house; despertóle startled the din
of rock, tip pointed down the mountain, and escaped out the window to seek shelter behind the
embankment of the river, had barely left his room, when the huge projectile collapsed on the cabin
and sank a few meters in the field under his weight. From his lucky escape, man rebuilt his
hut, home to confidently base another rock detached from the formidable wall.

In more than one valley are piles of stones, which form gorges where
hardly their way trails and streams.

Nothing is more curious that the disorder of these mixed stands endless maze. Upstairs in the
hillside, is still unknown, the color and shape rocks, where the release occurred, but it is inexplicable
that a such a short space dimension has been apparent in the valley like vomiting flood stones. In the
midst of these whimsical and formidable cliffs, the traveler that you crave a strange world,
in anything like the planet we know, at the regular or smooth surface winding. Alzanse similar
rocks here and there to great monuments, which include towers, obelisks, crenellated gates, shafts
of columns, tombs erected or demolished. Bridges one piece mask the stream; sort are engrossed
and disappearing under the huge water bow and to stop their noise heard. Among the buildings
appear monstrous giant forms, such as fossil animals, whose bones
are dislocated sometimes in layers of the earth.

Megatherium, mastodons, giant tortoises, crocodiles with wings, all those imaginary beings crammed into
terrible chaos. There are thousands of stones piled in the pass, and either could serve as sufficient
for quarry and construction entire villages.

These sets chaotic, I look with much admiration, and in whose womb penetrate not without hesitation,
are nothing compared to some mountains collapsed, the remains of districts covering great extent.
There are mountain masses whose vertices are composed of compact and heavy rock resting on layers
crumble easily by water. In such stands, falls stones are a normal phenomenon, such as landslides
and rain, and you should always look to the top if you prepare the release. In a region not
far away, called the country the ruins, there are two mountains, as residents have fought
in another time against each other. Both stone giants, bolstered by a vital blow, armed themselves
with rocks themselves to destroy and demolish each other. They failed, because it still standing,
but it is easy to imagine the prodigious rocks overcrowding that since that battle, cover the
plains in the distance.

Sometimes the man, in spite of their weakness, wished to imitate the
mountain, with the sole purpose to crush others.

Especially in gorges, in places where the narrow alfoz dominate steep gorges, where they met was the
Highlanders to roll the rocks over the heads of their enemies. Thus, the Basques hidden behind
the weeds on the slopes of the mountains of Altabiscar, hoped the French army Paladin Roldan,
who was to enter the narrow pass of Roncesvalles. When the columns of soldiers foreign resembling
long snake that slips through a crack, filled the gorge was heard a scream and a flood of rocks
fell down on the crowds passing below.