 To make all these moderately
papers just half the degrees, just 10. Let us, however, prodigious and awarded 20 of the notables
of the highest social and political life. All Grades of understanding that you have at top 20
will be not only useless but harmful, you distract from what matters to your interest, you
will think in many cases unnecessary, not think that fools you stirred up hatred of other men,
or will make you look as an oddball, quirky, and nothing will serve you if you do not reach the
100, which and grades are genius. May also excite your love hurt you and making you own think
you're a genius or you're close to it, which is likely to get in ridiculous. To be a genius required
100 degrees well covered, and yet the genius is often left latent if not favorable destiny brings
out. Then appear Cervantes, Newton, Shakespeare, Hegel and other such. While there does not
appear to be more deplorable and funny man that is, in our century, more than 20 degrees of understanding,
needed to reach to the most sublime of practical life, in the midst of civilization or environment
around us. It is clear that, as mankind progresses, the level will rise and will need more
degrees to the practical, and in old age, it required less. In the wild, put by-case basis, only
two or three degrees. Not required to hunt and fish, to stratagems warrior, etc., but some cunning,
a certain instinct little higher than wild beasts. All grades of understanding on this was then
a man was Don funestísimo and absurd luxury. Now, as the war have been applied to mathematics
and other sciences and hunting and fishing in the stock market in the Congress, in commercial
and industrial companies, not shooting arrows, but by creating securities, stocks, bonds and other
projectiles complicated grades needed are 20. Again, as the world goes quickly, within a couple
of centuries will be needed 40, but for now, is already aviado the passing of 20. What a horrible
nuisance in grades that you can spare! The sense deeper, more philosophical, most momentous of
the sentence is too clever by the superiority pitiful. All fired the shots that escape through
white top. Well above the critical killer all inspiration and kills you. Do not do a thousand
things because you seem silly, another makes, and thrives. Instead, what you do to seem unobtrusive,
or misunderstood, or judged only for success, which is often deplorable, seems silly to everyone.

"This
is, in short, my theory. In vain she tried to comfort me in my short venture, taking the innocent
vanity of believing more than 20 degrees and spend the ready in deepest philosophical meaning of
the phrase.

"This grim satisfaction that I give others is worth it convoluted for my wife. She does not
look it's going to walk, living in poor house, no one attends, and that respect, consideration
and flattery that craves being surrounded by waning missing mine.

"I note, measure, calculated instant by instant the rapid progress
that makes this evil in the heart it.

In this step I also ready. I'm ready to haunt me. I compare your doctor when he notices the progress
of tuberculosis in a loved one, provided the damage is to do and not even know how to avoid
or remedy.

"I see too well clear contempt for me that is slowly entering the heart of Beatrice and devouring
the affection that I have. But how to prevent this? How do I prove I'm worth more than the blessed
and exalted and rich? The speech made against them seem suggested by envy and makes me despicable
in his eyes.

"If I was young, beautiful and robust, I would hope that it continue Beatriz loving, but no longer
on a high opinion of my clothes intellectuals, but I'm old and ailing, and I'm puny and ugly as hell.
I applied, therefore bitterly that question the poet:

What is the
devil, Christ lives!, If you remove the view ready?

        
      

And without hesitation I answer: Nothing. Soon there will be nothing left for me in the heart of it,
but offensive compassion, if not spend all that takes pity herself. And you better not feel sorry for
me. Well our immortal writer says: "And above all, heaven forbid you have anyone you pity. "

"I
explode, I would drown if you do not communicate with someone my
troubles.

That's why I entrust you. Beatriz sees nothing. How, why, for what reason to complain to her
and she