 But in making the appraisal, merely to determine the exact value he has, by adopting
a common measure, which is money. If instead of the real, the shields or ESP, as the oxen were,
we would say that this owner had a land worth five hundred oxen, and such employee a salary of
twenty oxen a year. The advantage gold or silver coin minted for the foregoing clearly apparent.
Blessed and praise be to God who has given birth at a time when everything is ascertained and
explained so cute! An ox is not very portable, it fits in your pocket, does not happen in all
markets spent on food and can die, and the money or eat or die. In addition an ox may be fatter
or skinnier, smaller or larger, older or younger, while a shield is always a shield, enjoys
eternal youth, and has or should have the same weight and the same law.

This is the great advantage enjoyed by this science. It is so clear, so pedestrian and so simple,
children of the doctrine could understand if they wanted. And yet (something, incidentally admirable!),
just take a step from ground so firm and sure, and from place usually so clear economists fall into
a bottomless sea or within cimeriana dark night. Economy Politics goes to escape, jumping from
the truism to the sophistry with prodigious agility.

In the same issue of whether the precious metals, gold and silver are better than oxen for
currency, unforeseen difficulties and contradictions occur. Sample serves as : If the debt that
the Spanish government has made and continues to contract is estimated at oxen could not be
lower by 5 100 in one-twentieth, except that the seven lean breed of Pharaoh's dream and fill
the world infinitely all of oxen cacoquimios and emaciated, but debt estimated PTA has made
the cut with softness of a feather, and almost without anyone realizing it. Oxen, man with large,
unless the lean children, would always be oxen, but the new ESP not like the old, and the day
that the minting of new currency is completed, we ensure that instead of duty, for example, 20,000
million reais, we 19,000, not be that alteration of the currency does not pray with the creditors
of the State, and they continue to pay interests under the old law.

But leaving aside this issue, stating that while here we use the word money within the meaning
of capital or wealth, we perfectly the distinction of these things, and have made all men of
all ages, no need for economists indoctrinate. The reason we call money at all wealth is that
money is wealth without which you can not pass. Money is also a value that flows more easily
all other values, and represents and measured. Money is not all wealth, but the moving, and more
circulating liquid wealth. Blood is not all life on the body, and yet not live if the blood does
not circulate throughout the blood or if we escape, although not completely accurate comparison,
because there is no comparison completely accurate. There is nothing in the body that can replace
the blood, but there is something in society that can replace money, and this something is credit,
which does not create an atom over wealth, but put into circulation and provides mobility and
near ubiquity and much of the wealth that stands and inert. In short, the money, but replaceable
credit is part of wealth, and so this as being the most lively, more energetic and more circulating
is a pain to lose. The company has no money, or the guy who has no money, already Aviados. After
many studies have inferred therefore that the money economists is indispensable to man from
the moment that man lives in society, acute above, whose truth shines brighter than the midday
light.

II.

Sitting and these bases, I philosophize and a little discourse on the relationship of money (And
generally of all wealth) with the customs and the highest powers of mind human. Begin to combat
some errors.

The first and most capital is to believe that in our days, is money dearer at other times. Nothing
more false. On this day, men are as always, but if some alteration has occurred, has been favorable.
Can almost say that men have more generous.

Easy I would build here a multitude of historical examples, from the remotest ages so far, to prove
that the interest has dominated the world since then, and his empire
far from increasing, fell. I would not, however, make a scholarly
work but a meditation philosophical