 

CHAPTER XLII.

Tooth decay due to the Christians, aided by the Yapirús and Nagases,
earning them Froemidiere and Acaraiba.

We left the Assumption, with our General, 350 Christians, and the 1000 Indians, distributed so, always
three goes to a Christian: we three leagues of Carias were 15.000, governed by their chief Mayrairú,
and although we went half a league of them envestida not be tired
by the way, and very wet from the rain continued: ocultámonos in a
forest, where we had spent the night.

At six o'clock the next day, we began to march, and at seven the envestida: The battle lasted
until ten, who fled precipitately to get into Froemidiere, [40] people who had fortified, four leagues
away, leaving dead 2.000, whose heads took the Yapirús. Of us died ten, and some injuries that
we send to the Assumption, others follow the enemy until Froemidiere, where he had put the
chief Mayrairú with Indians. Had the fortified village as walls, with three tiers of logs, thick
as a man, a state of high, had also made holes, as those remaining these, and in each one, five
or six stakes set and sharpened like needles. It was fine strengthened, with strong Indian garrison:
tuvímosle besieged three days in vain. We over 400 large round shields, the hides of the sheep,
pig, called guanaco: is so big this animal like a horse medium blue, not pati-tended, in else
like the ass, and good food. Her skin is a half finger thick, and there many in this province.
These shields Yapirús we gave some Indians, with a sickle, and between two Indians would put a
harquebusier. Between two three rushed to the people, by three parts, and at three hours,
destroyed the palisades, we, with great slaughter in Indian wives and kids, although most of
them fled to Acaraiba, his people, I was twenty leagues Froemidiere, which had been fortified
as they could. They returned Cavities to assemble the large number, and put his army near a rough
woods, benefit from it if these people also lost. At five in the afternoon we arrived, chasing
the Carias, to Acaraiba and sitiámosle: laying the attacks on three spot, and sentries let in
the forest. Then we got the relief that we had asked to meet the dead and wounded and was 200 Christians
and 500 Yapirús and Nagases of the Assumption, with which our increased Christian army and 1.300 to
450 Indians. They had fortified the Carians sticks to Acaraiba and ditches, much more than other
people, and also had made some instruments such as buzzards, with the people, than if they had
the effect they thought, each would have taken twenty or thirty men. We were on it four days without
doing anything, until a Indian Carlo, who had been his captain, and owned the village, came
by night General, asking with great instance, not destroy it with fire, offering, if allowed,
to trace and method of take. Prometíole the general, who would not receive any damage, ensuring it met.
Thus showed two paths in the forest they were going to give the people, saying that when fire inside
him to do it, we had to envestida. In the same way that you had tried, be executed: we the people,
and we killed many Indians, and those who believed escape, fleeing, fell into the hands of the
Yapirús, which killed most: their wives and children were free because they had hidden in a large
forest, a mile away.

Those who escaped the massacre, the chief Taber took refuge in his
village, called Hieruquizaba, Acaraiba 40 leagues, we could not follow,
because they were burning and pillaging as they went, removing all
the supplies and food.

We spent four days in Acaraiba, repair work and curing the wounded.

CHAPTER XLIII.

Returned to the Assumption, in charge of another expedition, up the
river on the ships, and to take Hieruquizaba, forgiving to Taber.

We returned to the city of the Assumption, with the intention of repeating the journey down
the river, looking for Hieruquizaba village where he lived the chief of the Indians, Taber. In
the Assumption were fourteen days, warning of weapons, ammunition, supplies and other things
for the day referred. The general, who already had nearly 60 years of age, sought to increase
Spanish é his Indian army to replace the sick and wounded in the
battles and footage of people.

Compúsose nine navy brigs and 200 canoes, which were 1.500 Yapirús: go up by Paraguay river,
to search Hieruquizaba village, where they had fled caries that far
46 miles of the Assumption, and on this trip we gathered the chief,
who gave the trace taking to Acari, with 1.000 Carias, against Taber.

Willing people on the ground and water, march, and we were two leagues from Hieruquizaba, and
the general sent two Indians say to Taber caries hiciese the fugitives back to town, with their
wives, children and finances, and that should give obedience to the Christians as before: and if
they reused, the would push all of that province. Taber said that neither knew General, or to
those Christians who envistiesen course, that was to kill, throwing
bones against them.

Club sent to the ambassadors, and sent them away, threatening that if no Christians are fleeing,
they had to kill.

The general, seeing the failure of his embassy, ??he marched with
all his might, distributed four squadrons: the river we Ipan, which
is as wide as the Danube, is half state of deep, and in parts more:
grow with the flood, so sometimes you can not walk on land.

We had to cross this river, but the Indians were defending this step, and made us so great harm,
if it were not for God's providence, and the artillery that fired it, would have perished. But
we pass, and the ships reached the other bank, which saw by the Indians, fled to get to his
village, half a league from there. Seguímoslos so fast, almost at the same time we reached the
village Hieruquizaba, which place, so there no one could enter or leave: use after huanaco shields
and axes, as is said, and that afternoon we entered the village, killing many Indians, and reserving
their wives and children to captives, and had commanded the general.

Many Indians fled the run, and Yapirús friends got the dispossession of 1.000 heads of their
enemies.

Then came the Carians fled with his boss, asking pardon of the general, and that they restitution
of their wives and children, offering obedience, and serving as before
and the general forgave them.

And persevered after steadfast in our service, all the time I was there at that province. This war
lasted half a year, since 1546.

CHAPTER XLIV.

General Turns itself to the Assumption, and go inland for gold and silver.

After the war, became the general with people on the ships to the Assumption, and rest two full years,
provided that in so long ship came from Spain and not be idle general, suggested to the soldiers
if they would have to enter the ground rather than in with a people. All agreed on what he
said, and broke 350 Spanish, to those who offered, if they were with him, together Indians
and take care of clothing, horses and whatever else necessary. Joyful all admitted the offer:
He called the decay, and asked them if he wanted to go to 2.000? And the point offered to serve
as were required.

After two months, our general left the year 1548, up the Paraguay River with seven brigs and
two hundred canoes. People who did not fit into the ships, was by land, with 130 horses and he
returned to gather near the high, round hill of San Fernando, 92 miles distant from the Assumption,
which inhabit the Payaguá. Did the general return from there to the Assumption five launches
with the canoes, leaving the other two with 50 Spanish, supplied for two years; by Captain Don
Francisco de Mendoza, [41] in order to stay in that place two years
entrusting had great care with the Indians, what should happen to
John Oyola, until you return.

He began his journey with 300 Christians, 130 horses and 2,000 caries, and in eight continuous
days no found a nation. On the ninth, and to the thirty-six miles from Mount San Fernando, we
in Naperús, Indians are kept for hunting and fishing.

They are tall and robust. The women are ugly, and from waist to knee bring a towel. Four days
later we arrived at the Mapais, [42] populous nation. They are so sugetos to their principals,
that the Indians needed to serve, and served in the rustic German nobles.

Have an abundance of fruits of corn, cassava, sweet potatoes, Mandubia, pacobas, and other roots
and things to eat. There are many deer, sheep, pigs, ostriches, ducks, geese, chickens and
other many birds. In the forests there are many groups, they spend on wine making and other uses,
and how walking later, so much more fertile ground.

All year there eating corn and roots in this province.

The sheep, which they call huanacos are of two kinds, domestic and Monte Carlo, that used to load,
horseback riding and other ministries, such as use of the horses, and on this day, for being
bad leg, I walked over forty miles at a time. In Peru, carrying the merchandise in them. [43]
are high and warlike Indians, who only take care of things War: Indian women are beautiful, and
walk covers and background. Not working in the field, before the Indians are careful to support
the family, home or do more than tect or cotton spinning, or cooking the food to their husbands, or
serve in other nice things which are also with others easily.

Mbayas came out to receive, less than half a league from this village,
next to a lugarillo, where they said, perfidious and treacherous,
that sosegasemos that night, and assist us with what necesitásemos,
and to ensure the treachery which dealt generally gave the three Indian
girls four silver crowns, which tend to bring in the head, and four
plates, each half inch long and half as wide, that are placed on the
forehead ornament.

We believed were peace, and we stayed at the lugarillo, and finished dinner and sentinel sites,
sleep until near midnight, the general least three Indian cast, and looking for them, was moved
the army and the Mbayas suspecting evil, secretly ordered the dawn that they were all in its
housing prevented with their weapons, and ready to egecutar what they are commanded.

CHAPTER XLV.

Mbayas peoples, Chan, Toba, Peyonas, Mayegoni, Morrone, Paroni and Siman. [44]

Imagining Indians we were sleeping, suddenly rammed us 2.000, which were quickly routed, with
the death of more than half, and the rest fled the village, where
quickly followed them and entered it, but did not find anyone, not
their wives and children.

General chased with 150 musketeers and 2,500 Indians in a great hurry, for three days and two
nights without stopping over to eat and to rest four or five hours
a night.

The third day we took in the woods many Mbayas with their children and wives, but they were not
we sought, but his friends, who did not have the slightest suspicion that they were to them:
no But they paid for the guilty, because when we hit them, killing them and intrigued with Indian
and their children, about 3,000, and it gets dark, no escape, because all the large number of the
people gathered on a hill surrounded by forests.

I caught the 19 Indian men and women stripping not very old, and other things.

We returned to camp where we stayed eight days, because we had enough food. From Mbayas the mountain
of San Fernando, there are 50 leagues, and from the Naperús, 36.

Following the path, we came to the Indians Chanes, subjects of the Mbayas, the way that Germany
to his rustic gentlemen are in this day and planted corn and roots cultivated in this land during
the year: for when you are harvesting, another is maturing and another is planted, and so at any
time in the fields are fresh things to eat. From there we went to another village, whose Indians
fled when they saw us and left us plenty food, we stopped two days, at six miles we came to the Toba
Indians, who had fled, and was well aware of food, are also sugetos to the Mbayas.

We continued the journey without finding any Indians, and to the seven days to reach the nation of
the Peyonas, which is only 14 miles from the Toba. The chief of the village came to greet us peace,
together large crowd of Indians, General fervently, toilets enter the village, putting your actual
site where we received. But generally not served, and with good words the right way, he wanted
and did not want the boss, he entered the town, he had lots of chickens, geese, deer, sheep, ostriches,
parrots, rabbits and other similar, much corn and roots, that the land is fertile, but very
lack of water, and silver and gold, which we did not dare to ask, because the other nations
where we were to pass, they did not know what they wanted, and flee. Three days we stopped to these
Peyonas, and generally informed of the nature and condition of this province, and to say goodbye
gave us a guide, take us by a way that there is water to drink.

And at four leagues to the nation we call Mayegoni, where we spent
a day and taking guide and language departed.

These Indians were very peaceful, and gave us everything we needed.

Walks eight leagues, we came to the nation of Indians Peppers: recibiéronos also of peace, and
we two days with them, and made relation of the nature and quality of land, with new guide we
continued our journey, and at four miles we came to another nation, not so crowded, Paroni
call, will Indian warriors 3.000: there we stopped for a day, but had little food. At twelve
miles we enter another nation, whose natives are called Siman. His people is situated on a high hill
and surrounded by thorns and underbrush as wall. Were assembled many, and we were in war with bows,
arrows and other weapons. His pride was short-lived, it up, deserted their people, having been
burned before, but the fields give us enough food.

CHAPTER XLVI.

Of the Barcones, Leyhanos, Carconos, Sivisicosis and Samocosis.

A 16 miles from this village, we walked in four days, arrived near the town suddenly Barcones
Indians, not knowing we were going, they began to flee, but at our request stopped. We asked food,
and promptly trageron abundantly, chickens, geese, sheep, ostriches, deer and other things, and
very glad we stopped the Indians four days, taking news from the land. Thence in three days, the Indians
entered Leyhanos, nation that lives to twelve miles from the Barcones: had little victuals, for
the locust had destroyed almost all fruit, and not spend what we had, we went to walk past
night and in four days we went 16 leagues, and came to another nation called Carconos, that
although they had suffered the same plague, had more food. Reported in a day we were, that in 24
or 30 miles, which was about the nation of the Indians Sivisicosis, find no water. Reached on
the sixth day, with great difficulty, for although Carconos provided us, were dying of thirst,
some of us, if this trip we did not find a root, which was off the ground, it went out large leaves, which
had water as firm as in a glass, not spilled, or consumed easily, and each have half a pint.
Two hours at night, being near the town of Sivisicosis tried to flee with their Muyeres and children,
but the general dispatched a language, which were still in their homes, and without fear any, that
would do them no harm, and they did. There was great lack of water in that province and more for
not rained in three months to fill the cisterns that collect it, or had rivers, or other beverage
that makes the cassava root, thus: - They missed a mortar crushed roots, and pulled the milky
juice: if it can be water, also make wine from these roots. There was only one well in this town,
when I put the general sentinel, to distribute water to every year, according to the measurement
given by him, and even with these Providence had great work by the lack of water, and so many,
that we remembered gold and silver, everything was crying for water. This job gave me the
grace, favor and kindness many, because their distribution was not
very low, but careful not missing water and only because she has Sivisicosis
war with neighbors. Two days spent in this town and wondering if we
were to move forward or become, cast lots, and went to prosiguiésemos.
Informóse the general land and the Indians said that in six days'
journey would come Samocosis the Indians, and that he would find two
streams good for drinking, thus continued our journey, leading some
Sivisicosis to guides, who fled the first night leaving confusing
to find the way: but you were right, and gave the Indians Samocosis,
we were in war, not wanting to hear peace: but easily routed and fled.
In the battle we turned some, they told us that in that town had been
left sick Juan Oyola three Christians, when he was in recognizing
that land of order of D. Pedro Mendoza (as told at length in Chapter
25)