 

Then, raising his voice and pointing to the neighboring blocks:

- The huge felony - cried - of those bad men!

- By God, your grace speak lower, which can hearing it - broke Ramiro,
adding: - De so that your worship knows well by ...

- For this girl
- Canon said pointing to Casilda.

The dialogue, held strongly and it was agreed that, before the end of the meeting, would the
two to ascertain the truth, hiding in the box that says Casilda. At first the young man expressed
no little disgust at that intelligence, stating that seemed to him more frankly right to require
Enrique Dávila or at the same Bracamonte; but Canon made him think
of the need for prior uncertainty, and, referring the risk that his
wound was reopened in the bustle of the stairs, he said:

- If this
happens to you, my son, you shall realize that I did hurt, once again,
in service King and honor of your home.

Then, each other, went to the bench. And a large number of visits around Don Inigo. Don Pedro
de Valderrábano, sly old gentleman, was walking alone, watching mechanically furniture and looking
at the figures of the drapery. Other gentlemen spoke in Standing by the windows, through which
came a dim light and dim. Ramiro, after comply with the ceremonial greetings, sat next to a
wide hearth, around which are parliamentary war.

Don Enrique Davila judged Farnese tactics, as he held in his hand a silver vase a bezoar stone
embedded on edge. A servant escanciábale San Martín wine too often. He was richly dressed
in purple velvet, with doublet of same, lined with fur.

His intemperate condition responded to his gigantic stature. When he wanted to dominate any
grief, burst one or two horses to run wild force by way of Villatoro. The game was the only
passion that could puncture it. Without combing tresses, backwards. Her complexion was muddy
and stale. His small eyes.

Ramiro did not hear but the end of his speech:

- Say, your worship, that once Farnese had left the provinces to enter France had to fight a
pitched battle to Béarnais, desbaratalle then, quitalle the victuals, seize Paris and then say
to our king, "Point agora His Majesty the person who sit on this
throne.

"Thus, while exposing Flanders, we extended the power of our weapons and cleaned the pestilence
that Lutheran monarchy.

- What a wild way of war! - Valderrábano said Don Pedro, with a friendly
tone and burlesque .-- In a twinkling of an eye disrupts your worship
an army, takes her victuals, falls abruptly on a powerful city and
it takes over.

Think your grace, Don Henry, no battle is won not from a cow chair, it is the brazier.

Councilman Gaspar González Heredia, wanting to absorb the spicy fish spear that he said seriously,
turning to Don Enrique:

- Perhaps the Duke's army was not enough for such an undertaking, and there he presented to Bearn
as much stunt man and courage to fight at the head of his soldiers.

- With that - it Zimbron Daza said the lawyer, who boasted of tactical - no show that much trickery
that says your worship, as the head of a powerful kingdom, it aims to be Béarn, because it has
to do battle, must not be in the fray, among his soldiers; regardless
if he himself killed or defeated, the kingdom all is lost, as happened
to the Persians and Medes, conquered by Alexander, Darius the king
died, and in Spain the death of King Don Rodrigo, and Hungary, in
our time, King Ludwig died in the battle that he recklessly the Turks.

Prodújose a murmur of admiration.

- And your grace paternity have received new cards from France? -
Alonso asked to Father Jaime Rodriguez of the Society of Jesus.

-
Nearly all of them fall by the wayside.

This month, but only one gets through.

Bring some Details of the first rush of Bearnais on Paris last December.

- Let us know, we know.

- It seems that the Bearnais went well past midnight, when all neighbors
sleeping, but for one case in which check to see the hand of God,
the heretics supported their Papal Gate scales, where they were at
that time some religious of our Company.

Leaning over the first assailants, our brothers are repeated cries
of alarm.

Neighbors wake up, touch the alarm, and the heretic is removed disappointed.

-
Grande glory to your religion - someone said.

- A happy accident
indeed - said Father Rodriguez.

Then the Dominican Fray Gonzalo Jiménez, Guardian of the Convent of
Santo Tomas and Qualifier the Holy Office, said to him with apparent
meekness:

- You already have styling flag to the door of your home.

-
What would your worship as Reverence, Mr. Warden?

- Anser Capitoline,
the famous geese of the Capitol, and no one can say that you lack
old lineage.

Everyone knew the enmity that separated these two religions, but nobody expected an offense similar,
so the words of Father Rodriguez: "I still would not be humble enough to us," were lost in a murmur
of astonishment. Formáronse then talks different. A predominant and all ended up listening.
The chaplain of the Church of the Annunciation Hospital, Miguel Vaquero Gonzalez, speaking
to the Dominican Peso Chrysostom, the miracles of Dona Maria Vela, a nun of Santa Ana The chaplain
enjoyed fame as a saint. His pallor was thinking Cinderella in terrible austerities, yet, his
big blue eyes emanated poignant sweetness.

- They are so big - he said - that God grants so made and attached
the reasons to love God, to leave no doubt.

- In his humility and
other virtues tell me how you want your worship, Mr. Chaplain, but
His revelations very little, because I'm less inclined to creellas.

-
Same thing I heard from your grace paternity, on one occasion, the
Mother Teresa of Jesus.

- In fact, many times I said, let's see how
to this nun, which is not good to give faith so quickly to their strengths
and insights, not because she doubted as by judge that it suits for
women.

But now declare that the said Teresa has been suggested to be possible in these evangelical
perfection.

- And so mesmo Dona Maria, Father Chrysostom. I have experience fed his love and prayer to see
if there is a snare and delusion of Satan.

- I say it was your worship - Zimbron asked the lawyer, turning to
the chaplain - who administralla advised to put off making the holy
Viaticum loosen the jaws.

- No, no, was the father Julian, Julian's
father.

- Your worship witnessed the miracle?

- When I entered the
cell, and Dona Maria had opened his mouth to the divine remedy; whole
face lit up like a lamp.

Over nine days spent with his teeth so tight, stronger man would not have been separate and
waited until it was possible to pass a drop of broth.

The conversation turned, as usual, in the chronicle of the amazing
miracles continually engaged in that city.

Another nun from Santa Ana heard every night a voice denouncing the wiles of the Devil around
the cell of a particular religion. In the convent of San José, Catherine Davila rapture sudden
dam, had raised several feet from the floor to read an annotation
hand of Teresa of Jesus, in San Gregorio Morales.

Sor Angela de la Encarnación was crushed by Satan and slaps the sight of all his companions,
and, ultimately, thrown by him from the top of a garden of the convent
gallery, received no damage.

In addition, every Monday, which is the day that corresponds to the Agony in the Garden, sweating
in imitation Our Lord, so much blood in all its skin, which was necessary move it two or three
layers per day.

Speaking of those things, strange voices trembled and faces toughest are softened and pale as a blow
oreados divine.

The entire city, odoriferous of holiness, seemed to have risen to
a region neighbors God and float in the middle prodigy, partly visible
from the flight of angels.

Souls perfumed burning like charcoal brazier that mystical, poke through penance, fueled by
the incessant flapping of prayer. The miracle was everywhere.

Did possess here and there, so improbable and a bird family. They talked about it with rejoicing,
but terror.

The name of Teresa of Jesus, the religious errant souls marten, the mischievous sublime recurred
frequently in the dialogues. Many of those gathered there were relatives, Some were chattering
and joking with her in the parlors of the Incarnation and St. Joseph;
other, more elderly, the girl met, with much love of finery and smells
and putting nicknames for lovers.

Referíanse with the same enthusiasm his prodigies your wit, and all were happy to speak plainly
of a being that the eyes of the soul were now in glory Paradise.

- Great injustice has lead the great relic of his body - said Alonso de Valdivieso, to terminate the
account of a funny interview she had with her in Medina del Campo.

- This chicanery is owed to the Duke of Alba - replied Monsieur de
Navamorcuende.

Then, taking advantage of the uproar which prompted the words of Don
Henry, a father Carmelite spoke softly to Ramiro who not long ago,
fearing that got a new Rondon miraculous body, a lay sister of the
convent of Alba de Tormes, amid a stormy night, he had directed the
tomb of Mother Teresa, and discovering body, Abriola the chest with
a sharp knife, put his hand through the wound and started the heart.

Then, this superhuman woman putting the relic between two plates of oak it took him to the cell.
The next day, the unmistakable perfume embalmed cloisters, denounced the sublime sacrilege.

Feverish by the confused sound of the dialogue and the heavy air of the room, Ramiro had to
refocus for a moment, penetrate deep feeling of being by the passion that exuded those recent
stories. Just check once again that, at the first mention of wonders of a humble cloistered,
all other issues waned, and the toughest gentlemen, proud of their lineage, their flow, their
scars, bowed their heads as dwarfed because of the surpassing of
the glory penitent.

And again, the calm voice of others and used to whisper in the back of his consciousness, he
spoke as follows:

Give up the struggle of men.

No more heroic life, stronger, more life than life of one who, stripping entirely of vain worldly
clothes and follow the path of Christ our Lord.

This increases as either the powers of the soul, and in one day, siege or advocates, making
up baskets castles and palisades, pound great fighting starts drain vast legions, conquer unknown
worlds and wonderful. Only he tends his flight through the spaces of eternity, achieved their
seed, knows the true glory and defeat the vanity, the brevity and the pain field.

Yes, it would perhaps religious hermit. Was resolved. Lowering eyelids, dreamed, between the
growing murmur of the assembly in his future sanctity.

       * * * * *

A shouting in the street, a rough and hoarse cry, which made the windows
tremble, tore vision.

- What is this? - Cried some.

Ramiro, who was standing next to a window, got up, opened the timber and looked. A group of
villains was moving toward the sun across the square. In the smoky flare torches, Ramiro could
recognize amid this crowd of people, the lofty look of Bracamonte.

New exclamation burst out:

- Viva Don Diego!

Peat steps echoing on the tiles so rhythmic and solemn.

- There are
some neighbors who are accompanying Don Diego de Bracamonte - cried
aloud Ramiro high, turning his face toward the competition.

- Looks
- Valderrábano said - that a few days to this part, just to warn those
streets are set to follow him, and we are giving away all the time
with their cheers, which Güell worse than they sound.

- Please God
do not push someone too much - he added with slow modulation lectoral
Canon.

Ramirez noted that some eyes descended gravity, while others scrutinized,
one by one countenance.

Meanwhile, Enrique Davila responded to the sentence of Canon with
libelous laughter blowing through his fingers the jewel that hung
from the chain.

- Don Enrique, "The excusallas cards" - then said
Lectoral.

- Sir Canon: "Begun acaballo" - Then said the Lord of Navamorcuende,
completing the famous slogan that carried the arms of his family.

Minutes later came Bracamonte.

- What new? - He asked Don Enrique, leaving the seat.

While a servant took away the black shoulder dotted layer of snow,
Bracamonte said:

- That is to give part of the Holy Office in the
case of Antonio Pérez, to circumvent this Luckily, the Charters of
Aragon.

After a chandelier, and the whole face lit by the glow of the candles
large, Warden of St. Thomas broke:

- Is there, perhaps, courts jurisdiction
over that of the Inquisition?

There is the fixed, Don Diego, here we are in Castile.

Bracamonte, suddenly recognizing the voice, replied without hesitation:

- You know your grace Reverence, as the ancients, yet everything is tyranny empezalla, and
if such a dare to Aragon, which so far has kept jealously their freedoms,
then why not dare us, we're already tired and ready to be plucked
the pot!

Ramiro felt his arm pressed.

- Let's go, it's time - the Lectoral murmurole ear.

Some gatherings were leaving, Don Alonso among them.

       

* * * * *

When teacher and student fell to the ground floor block, led by Casilda,
it was night.

- Falling Snow - said the girl looking into the courtyard.

Casilda

had not dreamed or lied. After a long period of waiting, began to listen, through Alhacena tables,
half dug into the dividing wall thickness, the rumor of those who came into the room next door.
There was a crack through which one could peek, but Ramiro and Canon easily recognized the congregation,
even though all lowered their voices with obvious caution.

- The new cards - Bracamonte said - are the Bárboles Baron, Miguel de Gurrea and Lord of Purroy.

He
read it.

The last two relate recent events of Aragon and popular agitation Zaragoza. The Don Diego de
Heredia, M. de Bárboles, among other things said: "Today we the Aragonese the threat, it will
be you tomorrow. Prestémonos faithful help, brothers Castilla, that our country is lost, because
those are held by their parents and judges, are evil and treacherous stepfather della. "

- Yes, the republic is lost - Bracamonte said gruffly, his voice communicating resonance unwise .--
And, perhaps, we wonder, when Spain, ruled yesterday the clearest men, is now the prey of greedy
taxpayers, who not only seek by every means to increase farm itself, but perish the public,
but rather, more, impoverish and destroy the most ancient nobility of the kingdom, leaving, as
we know, runs the business, and inventing against it, every day, new breasts and humiliation? If the
punctilious honor of our caste not been exchanged, agora, in fearfulness and baseness, who would
dare such insolence? Aha, we show that blood is worth something delicate that we inherited
from our elders. It is time for manly resolutions. Lose, if necessary, life in the application,
before that honor. Aragon just waiting for our cue to throw; Sevilla boils and stir, Valladolid,
Madrid and Toledo will come behind, we just leave.

A chorus of approval burning responded to the harangue de Bracamonte. Then, in the silence that ensued,
one voice rang out, stern, unmistakable.

- Do not say that old age, emaciation my strength, my heart has been
intemperate