 But forgive my vanity. Was not you at this time the only Cordoba
who made love prophetess. Another came before you, who competed in this with you. Not worth much,
because the man whose future worth loving discovered her in his prophetic vision worth a thousand
times less than the strain of his intelligence and his revealing strong will have doubled or tripled
the greatness of the known world, and has magnified the concept of creation in every human mind.
Compared to the glory of man, which is worth little is achieved by defeating armies, conquering
kingdoms and subjugating and humiliating the chief more powerful. It is nevertheless more than
you this woman that I speak, because you have revealed no Columbus himself what he already knew his
own worth. You will lend credit, encouragement and hope and trust in men and in his fortune, but
this woman that I speak, in his high love for me, because it was my girlfriend, did not merely
give me credit, encouragement and hope, but it became clear to my soul the greatness of her dream
that my soul had, gave me faith placed in me, my ambition became debt of gratitude to her,
and made me be great for that she was not, nor accused of being lightweight and not taken
for a liar.

The Grand Master did not know then shut up. Beatriz told the loves of his boyhood runaways first.
And even some say that you cited, hovering tears in their eyes, some
of the letter I had written Dona Mencia, and he mercifully kept in
memory.

Gonzalo said finally:

- I confess, to not disclose that after other women have loved and been loved for them. None,
however, has broken down and thrown into the sanctuary of my soul
the venerated image, placed there on everything earthly and perishable,
the woman who showed me myself I be himself, that perhaps the creative
virtue of his love planted in my mind the seed of everything good
and noble all I could do in my life.

Recounting the story he told me D. John Fresco, whose certainty confirmed to some point, my
dear friend D. Aureliano, I can not remember a study that he wrote and published years ago,
Rosa Cleveland, sister of former President of the United States. The study entitled Faith altruistic,
capital seeks to demonstrate that the mission of women is to reveal
to man his top destinations, encourage him to fight and inspire the
spirit and confidence that are necessary to achieve them.

MASTER RAYMOND

I

In several treatises on political economy I have seen an account,
from which it follows that the industry of cobblers in France has
produced since the discovery of America until today, six or seven
times more wealth than all the gold and silver have come to Europe
from this new and vast continent. This leads me, without fear of going
through unlikely inventor of backstage, teacher talking here of Raymond.