 Soon have two stories high, about eighty feet in length, and twenty or thirty
of latitude. The famous hall of ambassadors from the Royal Palace of Madrid, is much smaller,
but I think it is more stately, because it is easier. The only flaw I noticed in this royal
residence, is that the profession in the ornament, the off handsomely in the pool. With less
estate, would have more grandeur, it would highlight the greatness of the ceilings, walls,
space, the grandeur of the extension. A Nevertheless, it is a dazzling piece. Among the countless
things we've seen remarkable in the room I speak, I will not make more than a mention. Near the
end of the canvas right as in the comedy of the wall, we saw a picture. We approach everything
we could, and we noticed that it was the portrait of her painter. One of the curious who visited
the Museum on that day, watching the picture with some enthusiastic curiosity, almost with wonder.
This drew our attention to us, that we saw in that painting a big reason of admiration and
enthusiasm. We look with more emphasis on the table before us; returned to the viewer's eyes,
and noticed again that kept grimacing and twitching, as to urge the excellence of the painting. In
this we looked at, and we also look, sign to say, "what do you see in this picture? What miracle
is this? "

The Stranger (was German) understood us, and passing near us, babbled in broken French: you see that
picture, that picture is hanging there, not a painting, not a oil painting, is a tapestry,
and greeting us with a gesture, he left.

The three of us were amazed, and stayed a long time looking for that wonder. Not knowing that
this painting is a tapestry of the Gobelins factory, it seems impossible one person to distinguish
the tapestry of an oil painting, painting and a good school. The fabric has done as much as the
brush, the wool is there rival colors. Shadows, stockings inks, confusion of tones, to vagueness
in the color, until the mixture indefinable infinitely varied and different, which can only
be done in a painter's palette, everything is there. The Gobelins tapestry are so painters,
upholsterers, painters or so. I think that picture just to see and admire, is one of the greatest
curiosities that have human art.

We entered the museum of paintings. After crossing a few galleries, where there is more wealth
architecture, where the building is much more remarkable than the museum, we entered the room
preference. In this rich room are kept all works estimated that the Louvre has the great masters.
In the middle of the right angle, including paintings by Raphael
of Urbino, Rubens, Titian and Poussin, we saw a picture that sort
seemed to preside historic banquet, a feast to quietly attending many
geniuses.

Brigadier Rotalde was bareheaded, and with a courage of feeling, which
was not the owner of repression, exclaimed: Bartolomé Esteban Murillo's
alive!

This impromptu exclamation had some fluid electric.

Our curiosity is satisfied. The painting we see is the ASUNCION. Can you explain the merit of
that huge box? I think not. In this case what the color and sound. In vain to explain the color
blind, and sound to the deaf. Whoever does not accept these notions of natural creation, lower
to the grave without them. The understanding has no fantasy and heart to understand and feel the
beauty that the genius of a man carved in that canvas, who does not hear in your soul, deep inside,
which tells the sweeping silence, that eloquence has not spoken to the mouth, this silent eloquence,
and which therefore is more sublime; who do not have the talent of enthusiasm, as had the talent
of art Murillo, can hardly understand a word of that divine tongue. The more you explain, at
least understand. No But the reader will realize my impressions. Do not take the reader to pride,
which I to say naive. I do not see the merit of Asuncion, where others see it. I see big, very
large, beautifully inspired and happy, where there usually is. I think the teacher merit of
this picture is not, but that taking all forms of women, no us to experience the thrill of sex that
has that mysterious indecision thought awareness, hope, ie, of the Virgin, because hope is a lifetime
and all the beauty of virginity. She is a woman in your body, and an ideality in his soul;
and idealism is so powerful that the impression of the body disappears, and the spirit triumphs.
That assumption is an art school where he knelt before faith. I do not see Murillo; I do not
see to Spain, do not see at Seville, I do not see anyone I see only the Assumption. The work
is so great that it kills the idea of ??the worker.

Where begins the Virgin? It is not known. A magnificent robe conceals his feet.

Where does it end? It is not known. The index finger of his right hand points to the top, and
the sky is a space that knows no boundaries. It seems to be, which is outside the box, which
is cast to fly without wings, it seems that this figure has its complement in another world,
it seems that Murillo wanted to finish it in the arcane of hope in
the shadow of a prediction, in thought of God.

The Assumption is a table that lacks nothing, as artistic creation, and considered religious
creation, has no beginning or end. The viewer does not know do not see, where to start, or where
he concludes.

In that mysterious and transcendental ignorance, in that sublime ignorance
that ASUNCION takes hold of us, is the great merit of the painting,
judging by what I feel front of her.

I shall give notice of some details, trying to look away from many other beauties because every
stroke of this painting is worth a good picture.

I know that the eyes of the figure that I see are beautiful, and yet they wonder that amazing! I
could not tell what color they have. And what is this? says one reader. Consists Murillo wanted
that viewers did not see the eyes of the Assumption, but who would look the sky, which looks
to the inspired image.

Another thing really catches my attention, and the profound philosophy
that I thought reveals to hide the feet to the Virgin.

Actually, to a virgin, should not see their feet. All what a virgin lost in shadow, lost in
mystery, and whatever you lose in mystery, lost of virgin.

But do fold to indicate the thigh! What shape to suggest the waist! What cloak to hide the feet!
What ripples in the suit! What softness of color! How sweet feeling! Expressions of attitude!
What purity and fervor of soul! No I mean the master of the brush. The soul, a soul so full
of great affection and great truths, is the brush that paints pictures as I look.

I turn my eyes to another side, because I will not say more. Just add two words about its history.

Certain
commissioned this monastery in Seville Murillo Assumption. The painter gives out his task,
take his picture, it leads to the convent, they learn the friars,
and meets the community.

Murillo them presents his painting, the critics come, examine, look more carefully, are defined
one another with a frown, and say to the painter: "Your Grace will forgive that is not what
we charge; your ASUNCION does the convent.

"

- Let your reverence, said Murillo, who put the box where it belongs, and if then it does not
please your reverence, I will take it, because, thank God, this Blank does not eat bread in
the house of his master.

- Little or no gain in this painter and painting, because the convent again that the Table does
not work.

It is known, Mr. Bartholomew, your worship has handled very quickly the brushes.

- The I shall run as fast as pleases your reverence, but let a thousand saints place the painting
and saying and doing, ASUNCION began to rise.

The monks, who had looked closely, they had not seen anything that touches of ocher, pegones
of white, and almost everyone had turned their backs to the great master. But the picture was
ascending, And as it was rising, was transformed in a dramatic way. The painting stands instead,
the Virgin appears, the canvas is shining, the whole convent full ASUNCION.

- If you do not dislike them, Sir Bartholomew, this picture may be there because, or sight deceives
us, or almost tell your worship that makes your convent virgin.

- Do not stay there, with the permission of your reverence, "replied the painter. Before you hit
display hand of the executioner by Bartolomé Esteban Murillo, to
return the canvas to step on the thresholds community, if your bow
does not have to take it to anger.

No pleas were worth or pleas. Murillo a few moments came out of the convent with his great
work.

I do not know what caused it. What we know is that Marshal Soult took the picture, which took
him to Paris, and who kept it until his death, including family pictures. Dead Marshall, the Museum
of Louvre made overtures to the heirs, who sold the soon paint half of its value, for the sake of
national development to which was intended. The Louvre and she gave one hundred and sixty thousand
napoleons, or are eight hundred thousand francs. Since then it is located where he now admired
by travelers from around the globe. Who was to say to the good monks of Seville, not to that
assumption to her convent, was to be sold to the Louvre Museum in
bags of one hundred and sixty napoleons, and who was presiding over
the great hall of this magnificent museum, including paintings of
Poussin, Rubens, Urbino by Titian and!

After directing the last look at the Spanish table, with some national pride, we to a gallery,
and then to a room where there are no other paintings that the apotheosis of Catalina Medici
by Rubens, the great Rubens. Until this apotheosis is gigantic, not have an exact idea of ??the
painter and diplomat Count at once, but in whom the painter worth more, much more than the
diplomatic and the Count. The pictures of that deification enormis art, fill the walls of the
room. There is negligence, there is no hurry in this immense work; but check to see such fertility,
such conception, such courage in the attitudes and musculature, an admirable profusion of mythological
figures and types, which stuns the mind is that a one man has painted those huge canvases.
That is not the apotheosis of Catalina de 'Medici, is Rubens. In this room, the art has been more
than the dynasty.

After visiting the whole museum in one of the rooms adjacent to the preference, we found another
painting by Murillo. It is a canvas of half a yard in picture, more or less. It represents a young boy,
poor, beggar, sitting on the floor, and has a placed on the other leg. With your left hand
back a foot, and with the right aims removed a thorn. The three companions in front of that
we nailed a beggar, and did not know how detached from their eyes. What bigger picture! If
I were rich, would give these two feet of canvas, as well as gave the Louvre by the assumption.
This little picture is worth the apotheosis of Rubens, no less than the Virgin that we've seen recently.
Hardly conceived which may appear trivial passage of human life in a way so charming, so high,
so philosophical, so perfect.

Tangled hair and dirty in front oppressed eyes dilated and sad, dirty hand roasted, blackened
toenails, sucking face, prominent cheekbones, skin wrinkles, faded appearance, everything is
there with a surprising simplicity. It's a boy he has never met his mother, who since birth
begging. The child knows the gave him being, you have joy in his face, a joy that leaves something
there to the creature dies. In this boy has not left any glimmer that joy. Positively that
child has never seen his mother. If he were alive, we're taking it to Spain. Seeing his picture
on inanimate piece of cloth that gives us desire to dip into his pocket, and let charity.
With what truth, what candor, how innocent, open your eyes droopy
and wilted, purses his lips, and extends two fingers outstretched
to pull out the spine the foot!

I repeat, that half a yard of cloth, the only orphan, abandoned and sad that waste the pride
of man, that I forget the world, that rag of our sins, is as good as the Virgin.

And tell me, Mr. French: that picture how invaluable this precious painting creating the most
tender Christian spirit that beautiful apotheosis of the gospel: how the beggar does not rank
in the room of choice? Do you think that a hundred paintings that is kept in that room, there
are ninety-nine who are worth more than that boy is painted there? Do you think there is only
one table in the room of choice, one that Art belongs to a larger and more high school to a
more beautiful, more fruitful, wiser and larger?

Why the Orphan almost divine is hidden here? Is it small size painting? "It took a little maybe?

Crossing
the room of choice, we have noticed a novelty.

A very pretty young Countess Italian, is uploaded to the easel, copying
ASUNCION.

If it judging from the few details we have seen, is a master brush. I do not know the woman's
life, I do not know the secrets of his soul, but he is a pure soul,
if you have a virgin and good heart, the copy out the assumption must
be admirable.

How can that not be well understood as two virgins beautiful? some have said of this neglect,
but an oversight that she could hear, and the noble and beautiful painter has smiled sweetly. Ah!
Who knows what will be under that laugh! Many times we see the brightest flower, is hiding with
his fresh stems to the most poisonous snake.

If your conscience is like his waist, I almost venture to foretell you see the kingdom of heaven;
although they are often very narrow waists very broad minded.

Day thirty-fourth =. =

The column of Vendome .-- The balcony of the inn's general .-- The .-- The Savoyard's Wellington
Bois de Boulogne .-- A Schoolgirl. - Question behind .-- Curiosities .-- Late.

This is the last day that the brigadier Rotalde plan to stay in Paris, and am in the case of do
the honors that are due to to be.

Shortly after ten o'clock in the morning, we in the Plaza de Vendome, in whose center stands
a large, graceful column. The guardian tells us that the factory of this monument, which is bronze,
were used twelve thousand guns Bonaparte seized by the enemies of France.

The foundation of this huge pyramid, in imitation of Trajan's Column
in Rome, have a depth of twelve yards, its diameter no less than five,
and fifty of elevation.

It arrives at the top of a ladder hundred and seventy-six sections.

Corona column a statue Napoleon, wearing high Capitan.

Eagles, garlands of oak and laurel, and several other allegorical
trophies, adorn this monument to victory.

Above the door, reading a Latin inscription that reads: 'in bronze
enemy, the Emperor Napoleon raised this monument to the glory of the
great army, which under orders, won in five months to all of Germany.

"

Because of the Vendome column, were two very curious anecdotes. The one is a hero the present
Emperor of the French, on the other, the general Wellington.

The Napoleon III is as follows. When movement occurred in 1848, came to Paris on current emperor,
he stayed at an inn that is in the Plaza de Vendome. His friends and adectos advised him was
to send people to the provinces, to prepare public opinion, and get who named him deputy.

- No need to be sent to anyone, "said the emigrated from London.

- Why? his friends asked in amazement.

- Because voters do not need.

- But how is it that he wants to be
elected, no need voter?

- Because I have enough of that electorate.

And saying this stands up, opens the windows of a balcony overlooking the square, and shows
the statue of Bonaparte crowning (as mentioned) triumphal column.

The former emigrated from London was right. The elector of bronze, that great story appointed him
first deputy president of the republic later, later emperor. I do not deny so this emperor may have
done, but I think the other emperor, the Elector of Vendome column,
has done much more.

Let us the story of General Wellington. The first statue of Bonaparte, who served as auction column
to be dropped in 1815, and served to cast the bronze statue of Henry IV, now decorate the Pont
Neuf. They say that, seeing the statue that general Wellington Napoleon I conceived the idea
of ??sending to another statue of that character. Indeed, the statue was made, and the English
general put it on the first landing of the stairs of his home. Several friends of the general,
surprised that leave the statue on the stairs, tried to make him see that it was not decent, because
it could be understood that I wanted to offend the memory the hero.

- The statue is where it belongs, Wellington said, and hung his head.

- But do you think, others argued that the statue of Bonaparte is an ornament in Wellington ladder?

-
The statue is where it should be, he repeated the old general could
not be more than steps, and went back down the front.

- But why can
not be elsewhere in the ladder?

- Because it fits through the doors
of my house.

This positive expression of Wellington was to inspire one of our fellow expedition And he said,
that column is a worthy pedestal of that statue. Actually, Napoleon did not need lower growth.

We
climbed to our carriage, and at twenty or thirty minutes we were in the forest Bologna. At the
end of a street tree in place a good distance, we a young blonde, very blonde, and a skin so white
and so smooth, it seemed more than skin alabaster. A woman in solitude, and especially among
trees and flowers, has a reputation fascinating. I was at the foot of a bush, and a branch
banged on the tip of the shoe right, having nailed the sight of a
mechanical mode.

Any ideas boring brain of the woman, some thought that head volcanizaba evil. On this we said
some words in a low voice, but the girl did not look up at us. It seemed as that his eyes were
fastened to the tip of the right foot, where he continued to give blows with the branch.

To spend almost touching his feet, the brigadier said, this is plotting against some unhappy and on hearing
this we all laughed with some merriment. The Savoy (as appeared by their color and its factions)
did not raise no sight. We walked quite long, and to return found in the same place, with
the same attitude, while the foreign occupation of hitting the tip of the right shoe.

What will he think? What will happen to this woman? This murmur among us, and we almost had temptation
of speaking. Surely you have done, if that woman had looked up towards us, but in vain. Passing
this time along the shoreline, strive voice, try to do noise, nothing, those eyes were sewn
to the shoe. We went at last, we move away turning his face, until we lost sight of. The Savoy
was there. Have we done well not to speak it? I think not, I feel we made a lack of charity,
because I feel that woman is hiding a diabolical plan, under that
mechanical movement, almost idiot.

The memory of that miserable (I'm sure that this woman is not happy) us worried all day.

Near the arc of the Star, we have found an American family that has
come to Paris to be a girl, who was in a school in this city.

The schoolgirl, young seventeen to eighteen years, he went with his parents and two siblings. The
girl in question lela seemed a riotous.

Education in schools is perhaps the most serious drawback of civilization
of our day.

The woman you educate them, gets a thousand extravagant habits and capricious, it loses much
of the affection that his men should not serve for life house, since it has not been raised in families,
or to civilian life, since no has grown up in society.

Is the ignorance of not experiencing the reality of human life confused and disordered desire
that you want to experiment, and the dangerous mischief of yearning ignorant bliss. After school
is the schoolgirl figure coming into the world, figure was just born, and yet in spite of his,
is the fickleness, cravings and anxiety of a child. In one day, in an hour, want to enjoy
what has not enjoyed in ten years in prison and is never happy, never quiet, always looks impatient,
always whispers, always craving more. Want to see everything, feel everything, devour everything
at once, this is education, this is culture, this is the morality
that the young out of school.

      Parents who read this
    book, rather then a school, rather
    than to those schools, where
    you pay so much money that I distorted your daughters, send it to
a village.

In a village be ignorant: in school are ignorant, impatient, accustomed evil and crazy.

If I had a son and I ask: what is the first quality I look for in women, it has to be my wife?

- That no college, I would reply.

"I mean that there can be virtuous and educated schoolgirls?

No, the power is everywhere, everywhere there are educated and virtuous women, I do not speak
here of goodness of women, but the dangers of the serious dangers of a school.

Still we talked to the American family, when in front of us, for a
car, The footman opened the door, and beautiful woman appears a figure.

Put your foot in the stirrup the suit is suspended talks with the footman, and so was a couple
of minutes, so that us us admire the beautiful outline of her leg.

It seems impossible to have women as foolish, it seems impossible that so embezzle the flow due to
the sky. Want interest be shamed want to dress up and dazzle, covered with rags and to shreds.

A poor woman (a woman can be poor with many jewels and riches) would
be necessary teach the verse that says:

In the loving empire Find
the man who ignores: It is not the woman he adores, What I love is
its mystery.

Women would be worth much more, how different would
the world, if understood and practiced the morale of those four lines!

I've
said elsewhere, and I'll say it here again. He that believeth not
need to read twice, ignore it, but I almost dare say that even if
you read all days, will not lose time.

A moral virtue is called modesty.

A
physical basis is called grooming.

A social and religious virtue
is called charity.

Two domestic virtues which are called hard work
and economy: This is the real dowry, larger dowry, a parent can give
his daughter. With this dowry, poor is rich, and the ugly is beautiful.
Without this feat, the beautiful is ugly, and the rich is poor.

Many
breasts heaved a deep sigh, reading these lines scruffy!

The French
left with the valet. God gives what is needed, a good dose of trial.

We
had a great pleasure. We visited the Institute and saw the statues
of Bossuet, Descartes, of Fenelon and Tully. Also saw with great satisfaction
the busts of other famous men, including Molière, however, that this
great poet did not belong to the Academy his century