 True architect of considerable merit, or obscure Arfe
Cellini, olvidadoen the center of this provincial town, making the new custody reproducing inspired
breathtaking beauties in ancient few seemed. Prisca, old man's friend architect, goes daily to
see and celebrate progress in the manufacture of new custody. Strange, complicated and passionate
mix of emotions stirred the hearts and minds of Prisca when he learns that the person who made
the generous donation is the boyfriend who had abandoned, which rich and happy lives in very distant
regions! Unable to resist his weakened body to the violence of the emotions that stir the
spirit, Prisca falls ill of fatal illness, and breathed his last when finished and the new custody,
passes in solemn and triumphant procession through the door of his house. The memories of puppy
love and the later mysticism of life Prisca amalgamate and melt gently in his soul in those last
moments, purifying and exalting in such a way past love earth, not heaven's sake profane or
put the slightest stain on cleaning.

Without affectation of archaism and purism, but in the most natural and spontaneous language
Mr. Lee Roberts is pure and in all of his stories, and scenes describing copied from the natural
look, with accuracy in the details, and without the author's small vexed by neat, defects
in which usually fall on a day not a few novelists. Very reasonable hopes that Mr. Lee Roberts
will be one of the best that Spain can boast this century, give us the short stories written
and published by him when is still very young.

III

Another notable talent as an author of books unknown to me at
least so far, is D. Adelard Ortiz de Pinedo.

The work of his recently published and have read with great interest, is entitled The chasm.
If the clothes of a novelist are sharp and insightful talent observation, the final skill for drawing
and painting style characters, and the art of combining events and circumstances to develop
an action lead to the evolution with increasing speed and ensure it reaches the end and outcome
that the author fixed, we may ensure that Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo has these items and is known to
be or is already a novelist short no merit. Topped off with a view straight and severe, it
is to give excellent lessons moral and do not use it impertinent speeches, but getting born
or derived of the same events that counts. To achieve this end is, finally, on the clear real
world view and society in which they live, the powerful imagination and art should with inventing
the facts, incidents and conflicts, and groups and ordered by moving to a purpose determined.

The
gulf, however, has, to my way of feeling, a little bit funny, that I dare not failing to qualify,
but I would be glad to disappear in other works where the type. I have no doubt that I will write,
for he has shown great willingness in the already written, and the
deserved applause with which the public will encourage insurance.

The defect, call it so, is the most tremendous pessimism. The approval and even if you want
admired as works of art that causes us the chasm is not backed out
of pure aesthetic pleasure, but fed up bitter and poisoned by the
spectacle of meanness and wickedness of human beings, and impious
and desperate doubts about the providence of heaven.

Do not believe it said that I accused Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo to create exaggerated characters ill.
The worst of those in the gulf is set in the world, it must be confessed,
models more vicious, more despicable and more vicious.

No sin, then, Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo to create beings Human worse than they actually are; sin because
apart from the side, and we say, the sphere of action and passion of the heroine of his novel
he has decided to plunge into the darkest abyss every man and every woman can feel for her a noble
and selfless affection as you can, know and want to give good advice, provide the precipice about
to fall and hold not to fall, lay a strong and loving hand to lift his fall or hold at least
in misfortune unquenchable.

Ramona, daughter of Philip predatory lender, which has become very rich, educated in an excellent
and aristocratic girls' school where, on his good natural background,
puts education the most delicate feelings.

Unfortunately, Ramona, according to the decision Gospel, is candid as doves, but is very far
from fulfilling the first part council or commandment, it is not wise as the serpent. Notable
is its unpredictability and pitiful ineptitude for life. Saved in your soul a treasure of virtues,
but it certainly is lacking the two cardinal virtues that matter most: the wisdom and strength.

Ramona
marries a young Marquis without showing in the novel who marries for love. He married to marry and
to be Marchesa. The Marquis wants to gild their coats of arms by way of marriage, and she wants
to boast their gold. If this is happening too often. Not hold I morally
very nice.

Very dignified for a man using its noble titles and splendor that surrounds the high society
in which they live, to get a woman kept. Not always, however, such marriage contracts bring with
them misfortune. Perhaps the title is a blessed husband, so full of gratitude and affection for
its rich consort like Elijah or St. Paul the Hermit, to the ravens brought them food. And maybe time,
if the husband is entitled ready, the money goes for his wife and serves auparle relief point
of entry to political life, climbing the highest positions and shine and shine on them to his companion.

This
is not to deny that the husband of the title holder can not, and sometimes not, and a tonti-crazy and
a heartless scoundrel, and the most wasteful and vicious of all men, but this seems unlikely
that any news was not taken before the wedding and even before the engagement. How is it that
the father and the mother of the girl did not object? What blindness as large was not the same
girl and so unreasonable and so just explained, because his love
is not to be very eager to give up and devote himself to a lost soul,
only about the mere encouragement of the Marquis?

In the case of the pit, the docility of Ramona borders on stupidity and weakness unlikely character,
but is even less plausible that D. Philip, her father, who had much expert on financial considerations,
does not provide for the ruination of his son, and consequently, their daughter and not seek
to avoid it. The only one who seeks the mother and the mother dies of hot flashes.

Don Felipe, as is revealed, life was already in his wife's affair with the maid she marries well
widowed. Lance is this naturalísimo, vulgar and credible. What is rare, this is the full evil
of every individual. Always or almost always, by of the most perverse qualities, often comes
a good or average among the ingredients that make up the character
of each person.

The most outrageous whore, which, abusing the senile lasciviousness and pursuing it with diabolical
cunning, arrives to take over the heart and wealth an old fool, and generally be kind to be
forgiven their rascalities, even without the slightest glimmer of goodness in his soul, and
to calm his conscience in check balance of its shares any good to counterbalance the bad. I'm
not saying Nicole, the stepmother of the Marquise Ramona, is a creature of pure evil unlikely.
There are or should Nicole had many real life and in society in which we live. The strange thing about
all this, It appears that no natural result of the concatenation of things, but mat or woven
fabric by the devil, is not around, or near or far from the poor Ramona subject male or female
that is honest, decent and kind to her and that something may be of useful. The only person who
has for her friendly and selfless devotion is a poor hunchback helpless and almost useless.

How
is it possible that Ramona did not have a friend in his old schoolmates or between people of
the middle class who had to visit and treat his father and mother, or between elegant ladies that
she was to meet and entertain at home before being ruined? For I know that that is poor people
often despise and turn their backs, but not to the extent that there is only one rational creature
to take his hand and encourage and comfort him.

In high school, and beyond, Ramona, Catholic educators, had to take confessors, there to deal with
priests. How not find a less indifferent and cold depths less off and hard for the father she
Zubulzu?

Ramona was beautiful, elegant, there was nothing foolish and while living in high society,
and not fall into the pit, had to have fans, young and old friends
that estimated that cared for her, and some of which, despite all
his modesty and severity of morals, could she be kind, granting favors
those breed predilection and clean and friendly no longer trust the
austere virtue, but neither the sanctity prohibited.

How is it that none of those friends first tried to avoid falling into the abyss, or tried
to remove it after without demanding in return the humiliation and disgrace?

It is possible that the circumstances have so that an unfortunate person does not find who turn
away, but should not be assumed, without insulting or slandering the human race unfortunate
that such person is not offended because it really does not exist in the world. Misfortune Ramona
arrives, therefore the rarest if not the most incredible extremes. Out of hunchback nobody there
to assist it or to look for it: neither raised nor other poor people, or people, middle class,
friends or relatives of your family, or ladies and gentlemen of the aristocratic society that
has grown up and has since lived.

Strange is also the complete and terrible misery to which the author leads her heroine, providing
it to do so magnanimous generosity, which can not but be a bit confused with the simplicity even in
the thinking of fictional people and despised material interests.

Anyone would think, finally, the idea that a young healthy woman, twenty-five or twenty years, carefully
educated, must have some ability to know something, have some means,
industry or resource to earn an honest living.

It can be nurse, teacher rich or chaperon. You can teach music, French, English, and hand work
to first letters. You can embroider, paint, make something, in short, it is worth two or three
pesetas daily. Bad luck tightening, but not always chokes. In The chasm is too note the strong
author's efforts to hasten her as his heroine throwing on such a
depth that does not able to leave, that he had no recourse but death
or infamy.

Ramona driven by the gloomy imagination of Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo, is to fall fatally in this horrible
dilemma: either kill or be the mistress of the bullfighter Severiano, aka the band. And as
the unhappy Ramona lacks the courage that is required premeditated suicide, or if the value is
not missing, his conscience or religious ban him committing such heinous crime, Ramona opt
on the other end of the dilemma, and it is seen, at the end of the novel, which will incur an sin
uglier, dirtier and more plebeian, though less fierce and less unlike suicide natural order and
reason and divine will.

While reading the last pages of the abyss we forge for a few moments of pleasant Ramona illusion
that, in the midst of its abandonment, was to find a noble defender in the torero someone to protect
her brutally without requiring payment, but, as already indicated, this illusion fades quickly.
The bullfighter is no better than the other beings of our species. Prominent among them only
by their energy, but this energy does not manifest its activity by any generous impulse, but
motivated only by selfish and bestial appetites.

Although as stated above, despite some improprieties and improbabilities in details, and despite
too many coincidences that occur with regard to seem fortuitous, as the sudden appearance of
a bullfighter in a serious time that saves Ramona the most shameful and miserable trance, the
pit is planned and written with such art, their reading interests, attracts and seduces, but
instead to delight grieve, ending up discouraged, if we had no recourse to think that everything
is fake and false, that everything is fixed, exaggerated and teratology,
and not ordinary and current, fortunately.

In short, I would dare to call me Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo of good painter of manners, although I am
glad that showed less bitter taste for bad painter, and that he should put less black, less shadows
and more light, ink and more pink and blue sky on his palette. Perhaps in the future do so without persist
in producing extraordinary grieving effects more than just the minds of his readers. Very much
so, in my opinion, will win with this, Mr. Ortiz de Pinedo.

IV

Like all naive and gullible reader may conclude after reading The gulf is an abominable Patulea most
humans, the reading of another novel that I have on brand my desk, whose title is snow and mud,
can mislead less cruel, but not least evident.

Is it credible, is common in real life there is a large body of men
women and gentle, simple, virtuous and good through and through, who
would live happily and honestly in a perpetual and syrupy romance,
if there were not a tyrant who impose them His yoke, who treat them
with kicks and that dominate at will, as fierce and rustic shepherd
a meek and helpless flock.

This idea of ??the goodness of the crowd and misfortune to the evil one sentence which prevails
over it prevails or is less misanthropic idea that assumed that all or almost all, we are
evil, but is no less false idea and so much more popularized. The bad princes, governments stupid
or immoral, unjust judges, the authority, short, any grade or class that is, are, for those
who think that luck, guilt of all evil. If a city, town or village is impoverished and ruined, if
its inhabitants lose welfare, rest and culture that once enjoyed,
blame the council or the mayor.

And if a nation goes down, you lose your power and credit, and if foreign nations the insult
or belittle, blame the king or his foolish and wicked ministers. The false it is to think
of that way is clearly warns, considering that neither the mayor or the council, neither King
nor the ministers, or anyone of those overlap and command and would incur evil stupid things,
if not sustained them in their wickedness and their stupidity, collaborating with them, if not
most, the most active and spirited of the beings who compose the nation, city, town or village.
In every sin, in any crime, all tyranny, there is hardly anything ever attributed to one. The entire
society must respond to the nonsense of power when given the power to fools, and declared guilty
of the outrages and crimes of the same power that she represents and creates, sustains and endures.

Not
understand why we suppose essential, even distrust convenient frequent imprisonment or insurrection
of the governed so that they are not done, a pair of victims, accomplices of the blunders,
excesses and crimes of those who govern. What I suppose, and what I think about at face value,
is that the tyrant, benevolent or malevolent monarch or tribune president of the republic,
or chief alcalde, grows, feeds or breathe the environment, does the will of the most or more
worth by the number or energy, and not be what it is if you do not provide relief and support
for this whatsoever. Maybe Nero, upon his return to rule the day in a cultured nation in Europe,
would be a constitutional monarch afabilísimo something fun lover
and friend, very generous patron of the sciences and arts, would by
his side to a composer of operas such as Wagner, to some excellent
Lola Montes dancer and a brilliant retinue of architects, sculptors,
painters, poets, writers and scholars.

Perhaps Philip II, and again to rise and reign in Spain he so identified with the national spirit
and national thought then, would cominero and with no less suspicious and no less cumbersome
than it already did, but drifting stream of time, far from being a fan, it would be a freethinker,
but surreptitiously, with firmness, and seek for different orientations, as they say now, that
enlargement and prosperity of their states that undoubtedly sought when there appeared for
the first time.

Bring to mind all the above to the foundation of the opinion that I give on the aforementioned Snow
and mud novel. Is snow, if not the entire population, the vast majority of people a picturesque
and beautiful village of the Alpujarras, located in the fertile but Riscoso skirt Veleta the lofty,
and designated by the pseudonym Iberuela. And are silt Mayor or chief and his son Luke, two
devils incarnate all Anasco. But for them, that place would be paradise. The rural simplicity
of manners, cheerful innocence soft and pure love would prevail there if it were not for Lucas,
the mayor's son is hooked, as a lecherous satyr, the gentle Hope, paragon of all virtues and
other good garments that can enhance the merit of a girl. The father of this is a great subject.
And the parson, D. Serafin, a true holy man, a venerable servant of God, a model cures. His nephew,
Luciano, not far behind in point of moral perfection.

Is selfless discreet, hardworking, educated and courageous, demonstrating the latest in the war
in Cuba, where he had to go to war because he dropped the card as a soldier. Already returned to
the place with the license absolute, it becomes a school teacher, and teaches the kids so well
and with such skill and affection, the boys and parents will bless and love him.