 I have not ever known the mind to marry there, or any like it, and yet, here
I come I sweat every time I think she may be flirting with a dandy right now or the mulatto
musician.

- The proof, my friend, there is no way to serve two masters.

- In business for love or courtship, it can serve up to twenty, and
more than two terms.

The of Havana will be my Venus Cythera, [44] Alquízar my guardian angel, my Ursuline nun, sister
of charity.

- It is not here for love or mere flirtations, it is much to love
and marry someone who does not love so much.

I see that you do not understand the half of it. To enjoy a lot in life a man should not marry
the woman he adores, but the woman who wants. Do you understand now?

- I understand that you have not born to married.

Isabel's Continuing morning excursion, far removed from the conversation they had for young habaneros
on it, it was the well. There, as everywhere, imposed respect their presence. As far as the
water carrier, suspended the work, lest by pouring water in the pan
splatter suit her mistress, who had come too.

On the contrary, the native coachman, more or less than the age of
one and that for having raised her the view was more confident, did
not stop the horses bathed since removed hat.

Nor bent the knee, like his neighbor, desiring the good morning,
a fact sure we did not warn Isabel, and for being used, and not consistent
with philanthropic feelings of humiliation, or the slave.

- Blas,
he said, addressing the water carrier, does much water the well?

-
A chocolate (by many), girl.

- How do you know?, She asked.

- Ah,
girl!

I always hear bu, bu, bu.

- Then you can see the movement of water.

- It can, girl, you can. I look Jervas.

- Take, said Isabel approaching even more the curb.

- Sumelsé look, asked the black very scared. No, not looking. Mu flamenco. Diablo rempuja girls.

Partner
of fuss Riose Leocadio and suggested that he could meet Miss their curiosity without risk if stated
in a branch of the rope while the two of them fastened the other end.

In this way it was, but Elizabeth could not see too much background at depth, the thickness
of the curb of masonry and countless ferns attached to the interior
walls, with its graceful palms near the well's mouth shut.

Then Elizabeth asked the coachman if horses were available to undertake
Next day trip:

- Girl Isabelita, "he said in language more intelligent
than his companion, Pajarito and new herraura Venao need.

- Why did
not you tell me, Leocadio of my sins?

- And I've had time?

Until last night I did not know na trip. Willing to bathe the horses was to tell the girl.

- Well, you have to go to town to iron.

- I'll willing to lunch.

Give me the child for herraor ballot. If you have not emborrachao, we're fine.

- Therefore, go as early as possible.

And check now to quell the horses run and before time.

- The girl
always figure that one kills the horses.

- You should call mata-horses,
not Leocadio.

Isabel did not stop in the other units of the property on that side of the sugar mill, but
the crossing to the opposite, he missed one of field slaves and reported Contramayoral that patient
was not submitted in line the night before. Peter rebuked did not give timely notice, following the
nursing law. The patient sat on the floor beside the fire, dejected and with a kerchief on her
head. By early providence the nurse had provided paths gourds of orange peel infusion, sweetened
sugar from scratching. Isabel took his pulse, he realized he had a fever and is available collect
in the meantime came the doctor.

Back to the main house, considered the stable and the living room where coffee was chosen.

The
expected guests on the porch, along with his sister, his aunt and his father. Seemed natural
that as time who had performed the duties of administrator the inheritance and things attached
to it, it felt self-satisfied and more likely for the performance of his duties as a homemaker.
The smiling face and lively that turned to the side of the family, it began to see the owner
and tender loving slave submissive, I knew to be kind and attentive to their peers and friends.
Since that time devoted to gifts and pleasant as it could make your
short stay in the coffee.

As the morning continue to remain fresh and little sun, his friends suggested Isabel briefly
visit to the border of the home garden. That was his Eden. Little art was reached gardening,
much less of botany, nor Cuba had spread a taste for flowers or other gardeners Pedregal French
had imported from France the great variety of roses pink invasion brought forward to Havana.
But Isabel was florist by instinct and determined crowd, and as he had planted with his hands,
knew choir history of all the flowers that grew in his garden was delightful. Saved himself, however,
even mentioning the pale rose flowers that Leonardo, for a year full, was grafted Barbed Rose
red flowers. Showed strong and fresh, boasting at each node either pink color, faithful and
poetic imitation of two people linked by the most sensitive human
of human passions: love.

Later visit the gardens of Isabel reached on horseback to the four youth through the plantation
residents. I felt the need to distract her, nay, stunned with continuous movement. Apart from that
it was not left satisfied with his explanation of the Eve with Leonardo,
it hurt to move away from peaceful home and loving father, and rushing
that kind of fever, infallible symptom of extreme medical condition
known by nostalgia.

Well attended on 2 December and came the melancholy morning of the 24th. Long before there was clear
Guanajay match for the coachman to the relief of the three horses. In the chair, and armed general
use with the whip and long machete out of tortoiseshell and silver, waiting for the travelers Leocadio
the handsome coachman.

Nearby were several slaves and more distant the other servants, apparently preparing to undertake
the tasks of the new day, in fact, as we shall see, in expectation of the sad scene that there
would be represented.

Isabel eager to shorten the painful moment of separation, embraced his father race took the Gamboa
arm and gave him, his eyes dim with tears, came to East Avenue to take the carriage. The ladies
were in costume rigorous way of black silk and straw hat or cap in the French style. In his
appearance was observed general movement followed by a murmur among
the spectators slaves, who burst a cry or the monotonous chant of
the day before: The girl is sin, probe cravo cries, repeated in solemn
chorus in the morning light of the new day, barely illuminated the
top of the most steep trees.

This unexpected greeting to puzzle over Elizabeth. Waved his handkerchief to the group slaves
in farewell and hurried over the step. Then he noticed the Contramayoral.

Stand erect, silent, head erect, showing through his shirt cabezones plump neck and chest of
the stalwart, Spartacus and his manly muscles, skinny women the sensitivity of the uneducated
mind, was the bed of silver brake restless Gamboa horse. Beside him was his wife, also motionless
and silent, with a child arms, deeply distressed, as showing the
great drops of tears rolling ebony her cheeks.

So touched as she, Isabel put her hand on his shoulder, printed a
sweet kiss on the forehead of the child and told her husband:

- Pedro,
Pedro!, Do not forget my orders.

Without waiting for an answer took refuge in the carriage.

In the asylum began loving importunity might be called slaves.

Especially black women, convinced that he was leaving his lady, surrounded the chitin and
the most significant flocked to the bracket, stuck his head under the curtain or helmet, and,
as usual, wounded cried out:

- Bye, girl! Come back soon, girl! Do not stay there, my little girl! God and the Virgin carry
with it the girl!

Accompanying these statements, which have resulted in favor of the reader, with its extravagant
shows, and gently press your feet, kiss his a hundred times as are the hands that she wanted
to reject.

All this said and expressed with genuine feeling, with exquisite tenderness, and while contemplating
his angelic face, which that of an idol or a sacred image.

Responsive, but ignorant and simple slaves, had to be the most beautiful love and good for women,
by a delicate and supernatural, and it showed in his own way rude
and idolatrous.

Gradually, and by prayers, pray for mild reprimands, Isabel managed to fend off other more petulant,
gave the order to leave, in tears and said: - I'm no good at these
scenes.

     
      A time to mount Gamboa threw a disdainful
      glance the show around the carriage,
      and High said, so that Peter heard that it was the step:

- Ay! What
is missing here was a good leather!

         

The coachman drew attention to the horse's reins from outside, and when Elizabeth was able to
take them in hand and the chitin and the passengers were saved and were almost home the limits
on the west, the plantation La Luz.

CHAPTER III

Sweet Cuba!, Look in your heart in the highest degree, deep the beauties of the physical world
the horrors of the moral world.

JOSE MARIA HEREDIA

Call Back Down or Low Back on the island of Cuba, a region that falls to the west side Meridian
Havana, and, beginning in the vicinity of Guanajay, ending in Cape San Antonio. It is famous for
the excellent snuff which is produced in the fertile vegas its many rivers, mainly on the southern
slopes of the Cordillera of the organs. To raise such dictation seems to be a weighty reason,
namely: leveling the ground floor of that territory, compared with the previously described high.

Start
the fall a few miles west of Guanajay noticeable change course rough in the face of the country.
Soil color, its components, vegetation, gender climate and culture
in general are quite different.

So the rapid decline is a ramp that goes and a hill for which comes from the Vuelta Abajo.

At the edge of this precipitous ramp unfolds before the eyes of the traveler a huge box, Gorgeous,
no canvas that contains, or will cover human eyes in all its grandeur. Imagine a seemingly plain,
bounded on the west by the mists of the distant horizon, north by barren hills that run along
the coast, and south by the rugged and altered hills that are part of the extensive mountain range
in the Vuelta Abajo. We say plain apparent because it is in fact a succession of transverse valleys,
narrow and deep, formed by as many streams, creeks and streams that descend from the slopes
northern forests and, after a crooked course and gentle, are lost in large and unhealthy watersheds
and malaria in Mariel Cabanas.

A great view of the picture, Elizabeth, who was an artist by feeling and I loved everything good
and beautiful in nature, he commanded the horse to the edge of the ramp and started walking
ground, without waiting for the proposal were accepted by their peers. Eight o'clock am. Ensanchábase
there the road, describing a Zeda to reduce where possible steepness of the slope. For this reason,
although both sides were covered over stretch of a tree grows and leafy, and their tops sticking out much
of the plateau level occupied by passengers, or obstructed, we say,
the panoramic view beyond.

Amazing was the vegetation. Despite the lateness of the winter season, this had dress their
finery and proud smile to the first rays of sun almo. Do you want to had not trod the ground
of man or the hull of the beast, there sprang, as it were, pour the modest grass or creeping
grass, the fresh rosemary, the graceful shrub, serpentine vine and the stalwart tree. Even
the green branches and dried branches, like hair invisible beings, hung the parasites of all kinds
and forms, which live on the moisture that is constantly saturated the atmosphere of the tropics.
The soil and the forest, in a word, filled with flowers and in bouquets, and varied in appearance
and festoons of diversity nuances, were a set so handsome as picturesque, even for people accustomed
in view of the fields feracísimos of Cuba.

For more novelty and charm, gave his life there in bizarre ways: boiled materially the nearby forest
with all the insects and birds almost as prolific breeds Cuban soil. All of a buzzing, whistling,
or trine between the dark or thick branches grass, and made concert just as harmonious as they
can never do men voice or musical instruments. Blessed are they that small pure and helpless
not excited Hunter greed or feared to be interrupted in their raids and fluttering innocent while
collecting honey in the cup of the flowers, or jumping from branch to branch, rattled the leaves
gave off the spray congealed in them, and drops to give the dry litter soil, mending a shower
that did not part the clouds.

There is no parity in the country's face seen on both sides of the mountains. For the south,
the plain with their coffee plantations, pastures and plantations of snuff, continues almost to
the end of the island and is the most fun and laughter you can imagine. Unlike the North side,
on the same parallel is offered so deep, rough and dreary to the eyes of traveler stepping
create another land and climate. Not because it is now grown mostly part to Honda Bay beyond,
this negative impression fades. Perhaps because their crops are sugar mills, because the climate
is certainly more humid and warm, because the soil is black and muddy, because the atmosphere
is heavier, for man and beast are most oppressed and abused there than in other parts of the
island, its appearance only admiration then it is converted in disgust and joy in shame.

Such, more or less, Isabel felt in the presence of that piece of the famous Vuelta Abajo. Its
doors, which were in fact the heights where passengers were being
held, could not be more splendid, could be described as golden.

But what about down there? Would even it the abode of peace? Would that for white, rest and contentment
sometime in their life for black, in a country where unsafe and loud and incessant work was imposed
as a punishment and not as a duty of man in society? What I aspire to and what could be eager to wait
that long past the day when the night is coming and going to sleep God in his holy grace, granted
to the most miserable of creatures? "He made some, Meanwhile worker, free and honest bread
to sustain a virtuous and a Christian family? Those properties accounted for the largest colossal
wealth in the country, were the signs of content and the pure pleasure of their masters? Would
that, peace of mind for who knowingly crystallized cane juice, honey with the blood of thousands
of slaves?

And if it happened naturally Gamboa married, sooner or later have to reside more or less time
in the La Tinaja, where they are now headed in a walk.

Naturally, too, crowded into his mind, as in fantastic procession, the main features its brief existence.
He recalled his stay in the convent of the Ursuline nuns in Havana where in the silence and peace
is nurtured his heart of most healthy principles Christian virtue and charity. As in contrast
recalled the death of his pious mother, the orphan it was sunk, its desolation and deep regret,
the same calm days and had then been happening in the coffee plantation La Luz, beautiful garden,
an imitation of that lost our first parents, flanked by his closest friends and idolized by
their slaves as it was not queen any on earth. He recalled, in short, the distressing situation
that left his father, ailing and as in years, which would not entirely approve this trip, perhaps
because it could be prelude to more severe and prolonged separation.

Were very brief silence and seclusion of the young, but so intense, so live your emotion he could
not avoid tears filled her eyes. Leonardo was at his side, taking by the bridle the spirited
horse, and now for the fun of your sad ideas, and to miss her cicerone, began to describe the highlights
of the magnificent panorama that had to view. Had passed him several times in those places,
he knew his ground spans the and wanted to give samples to friends of his good memory. The first
mill at our feet said, is the de Zayas. The trees in this part of the hill we can not see the
factories, but those are your last reed. Must be grinding, because up here can smell of molasses.
Still grinding mill and mules. We have to go through the same batey. Then in the center of this
great valley, slightly to our right, next to the trunk of that ceiba, one can see the red tiles
of the very old boiler house wit Escobar or Mariel. According to mom tells me, was the first
to be promoted in this part of the Tour Below. You should also be grinding as I see smoke coming
from the grove of batey. Then Do not see DVDs, a white cloud that crosses the valley in all
its latitude at the level of trees describing a portion of twists and turns? A poet would say
it was a gauze of gauze. I think the skin of a snake released into
the flight of the monster mountain the sea.

Otherwise it is not, although repair DVDs, the vapors that mark the course Twisted Rio Hondo,
notable for the narrowness of his cause and for the great avenues which in rainy weather.
Now there will be low and bridges to pass without getting wet feet. On the other hand, right here
in the northwest turn, "make out DVDs, a forest very green and dense which towers that seem
to hover round? That's the genius Valvanera Don Claudio Martinez de Pinillos, Count of Villanueva
newly created.

To the left, Rubin foot of the mountain or Ruby, the reeds are of wit La Begoña, and right not
yet discernible, The Tinaja, about a mile from the village of Bankruptcy
Axe.

Was very steep descent on that side of the vast valley of the sugar
mills, and drawn in zig zag but still worked hard to keep the horse
carriage at the appropriate level. Calesero shortened the reins of
the beam, fearful of a slip; and beat down the buttocks and slid it
was not going to sign. With that the springs creaked leather, on which
rocked the box of chitin in the guise of shale, and sweat began to
sprout from the trunk of the ears and flanks of the exhausted beasts.

-
Gradually, Leocadio said Elizabeth coming to the most bitter of the
hill. I had not seen I walk more pending.

Leonardo rode the right
abutment of the carriage, and said in jest:

- Is Isabel who speaks