 

He died in 715, do not know the day, but it is believed his death was the last of November, at
age 40 and 21 of religion, which had come to 1. st October 1694.

CHAPTER XVIII

Founding a new and Fr Reduction Juan Bautista de Zea undertakes the mission of Zamucos.

It is time we return to tie the threads of the story, interrupted
this long, well than useful digression, and first to give a view to
the reduction of San Juan Bautista, then move on to talk at length
about the trabajosísimas Missions undertaken in recent years to the
glory of God and the good of souls, the Apostolic P. Juan Bautista
de Zea.

We said in Chapter XVI how to address the lack of subjects had been
extinguished two peoples, and one dedicated to San Juan Bautista,
but by this time returned to start another with the same dedication.

Habíanse therefore added to St. Joseph and number of Morotocos Quies,
and to maintain as much people was the homeland a bit sterile, and
short crops, and it was therefore necessary to divide that town and
look elsewhere to fund it rather than a new one.

Thirteen miles from St. Joseph, towards the East, had a campaign called the Naranjal, sterile
not so much unhappiness in the land, as by not having those who cultivate it.

Chosen by common consent, among others, this site newbies, and then took room at the people
of four nations and many languages, Boros, Penot, Taus and Morotocos, using his name to that
town San Juan Bautista, and this is covered both to which they had comfortably with what life
pass, the new barbarians to that in faith, coming many in number and aging in vice, a thing of
incredible work remove bad habits, make them forget the old superstitions and reduce them to
narrow of law and Christian life as a missionary graciously said, they are so young, without
use of reason to bring them alive rational men, need to be continuous exercise of all virtues,
especially patience, zeal, delight and that that everything works,
love, suffering and endless impertinent nonsense, settling his own
way and becoming each of them to win and lead all to God.

New village Encargóse P. Juan Bautista Xandra, Sardinian nation, which sought, with all the fervor
of his spirit, that the people made their huts and till the ground, so that back in a little
of Father Zea Zamucos, with not so good success as expected, not
a little consoled himself with what he saw in the new town of San
Juan, and took courage to risk new life in the company of Zamucos.

This conversion is the work Zamucos business I now write, that having been the last of this gospel
worker, and the sun on the horizon, the more precipitate runs at sunset, so is more bright
and beautiful, and the sun threw the rest apostolic its incomparable charity when closest to death,
and although used, at least the years of work, had so much strength and encouragement, he could
get to grow successful the banner of Christ in inaccessible country, not so much by the barbarity
of its inhabitants, the by its natural place, rather than later, by the inscrutable judgments of
God, committed to other that great work, got frustrated so many hardships
for some time, and the hopes here to penetrate the vast provinces
of Chaco.

Strengthened, then, his spirit with long prayers and supplications to God our Lord for happy
conduct of that business, he set out for Zamucos in July of 1716, accompanied hundred neophytes,
and a few leagues opposed him hell with horrible storms in air, water and wind swirling, rising
rivers and a thousand other discomforts, so that thing walk fourteen leagues, spent nineteen
days, but not without some fruit, for giving a slight run to record some of the Tapuyquias Rancherías,
already ravaged, found there thirty souls who persevered even in
the darkness of heathenism, and won to Christ dispatched to the town
of San Joseph.

Happy with this unexpected win, went ahead and found a few leagues
with a forest ten leagues long, horrible in sight, and so difficult
to penetrate it, he never had been similar in all their wanderings.

What we did and suffered, with no words as best I can refer you to the same P. Zea wrote it to P. Vice-Provincial
Luis de la Roca:

"The Indians (says) get suspicious, however, that after all, began to work and to remove the thickness,
but half of it to completely fainted and resolved to leave, and I miraculously the power to
stop them, and to encourage them to take after it started, I stood
his forehead with an ax in his hand, sometimes with the hoe and other
carrying water to cool them ardientísimo fire of sun that made, and
so, by the grace of God, nineteen days of work, ended up breaking
the forest.

"But what became unbearable was not having the day or night of the
bloody truce endless hassles of mosquitoes and flies of several species,
molestísimos, whose stings us and we greatly disfigured last long
signals.

"I put his name Purgatory to this forest, that whosoever cometh unto
the coming years this country in search of souls, know how much it
must cost.

"

So much for the P. Zea.

Finally opened the way out to open field, where they found something to eat Father nor his companions
to repair the past work, because there was in that place no hunting or fishing pond, or a hive,
as there are other parties.

Only water was great copy estantía in the gaps, and some as tough and bitter roots as gall,
and they are not in great abundance, for this cause lost hope of
reaching at the end of your trip, because outside it said, had also
fallen ill work not a few of the converts, and others could hardly
be for lack of food.

With all of that step forward, two days distant from the last Rancheria of Cucarates, begged
some Morotocos Orerobates and twist some both the road and went to three Settlements of their
nation to reduce to those his countrymen to the knowledge of the true God.

Condescended to them willingly accept the holy man, and gave orders
to the rest of his entourage to wait for him beside the Cucarates
with only a few turned around to the said Ranches, and in less than
two days came in those lands where no one even found soul, because
the famine had forced the villagers to spread through the woods in
search food, so Christians were behind them without wasting time,
but the infidels, judging, or enemies or Chiquitos Indians, who were
greatly afraid and fled, until disappointed that, having been given
to know us, they stopped.

But it was in vain to speak them to become Christians, as they are not good to leave his native
land and take home in another place, and otherwise could not be indoctrinated in things of
faith and admitted to holy baptism, for which reason, seeing the P. Zea was not even when the
time for conversion, went around in search of his companions, but not I went in vain their
toil, for running some Rancherías and deserted, found there slightly more than seventy souls
who easily reduced to the faith, and leaving care some of their neophytes that would lead and
guide him to St. Joseph, the servant alegrísimo of God be in three days out of the clutches
of the demon many unbelievers, came together to the last Rancheria of Cucarates, where they waited
for his companions, to whom the evil spirit had such despair in the heart of the success of that
happy company which encouraged more than ever could not get them
to go ahead with them, and what could do it only if it will break
another forest similar to the past?

Stop here, and with the help of other infidels to enter the Zamucos was impossible because
all, to see the little ones, had retreated deep inside.

Thus, with incredible feeling and pain in his heart, he was obliged to go back and defer the company
until the following year:

But the zeal for souls and the greater
glory of God, which stimulated the Apostolic Father to continue what
was begun, was not allowed to expect that time opened, and although
the continuous rain that fell were flooded campaigns, decided to expose
a second time to the risks and dangers past.

Which and how many were, not referred to the Father in full, but enough to explain understand the
value and encouragement they had in the business of serving God.

"The same (says) this mission was to try to touch the gun hell to undo, break the air with furious
storms and move on the earth even more terrible persecution, because about persuaded me that it
was foolhardy to dare this company and that there was to get out
well with human effort.

Other, more flawed trial, said he was lost in vain the time and effort in converting a few when
there were nearly as many countries where less God coast to win great multitude of souls. "

So we painted, as an outline of the efforts of men and demons to remove
him of their attempts, but all vanished, because when God called him,
or persuasions of reasons, terror and danger, and he went through
pregnancies, were powerful to take away from their attempts.

Called, then, one day to twelve of the most fervent Christians, and of one mind on the dangers,
and great abundance of reasons to which he exhorted them to be his companions in the venture,
saying that in heaven God would give them the reward of what they should suffer for their love,
that should seek the good of others and move to compassion of so many souls of the oppressed
tyranny of the devil, whom they, by divine mercy, had shaken off the yoke that do not be frightened
of work and risks that were offered because he ran on behalf of sky rid of them, outside of
which he would be the first to be exposed to danger and They come treading in following in his footsteps,
he first probe for the fords of rivers, the marshes yield, would
throw hand ax, and if you dare to attack them barbarians he would
offer to serve as a shield.

This and more I said this very generous propagator of the law of God,
with great energy of mind because his was eloquent.

And indeed it was necessary so effectively in his words to persevere and his Indians could
suffer so many hardships.

Persuadióles what I wanted, and with these few peers in the strictest
of time, February the following year, went to reconnoitre the forest
that remained to be open to enter the Zamucos, and seeming cowardice
not to put then to work to pave this difficulty taking a hatchet to
his imitation and other neophytes, he began to make the journey.

"For about fifteen days (he says in a letter) from dawn to put the Sun, worked on removing some
of that jungle, most of the time with water to waist, to walk barefoot
among those thorny, losing at every step along the way, because Water
violence would take us back and forth.

"

Working with this determination came to the middle of the forest, where he met the holy man
that in that way not so much work had to suffer and overcome difficulties when comparing little
less than an impossibility because of the risk out there, that grow a little water are all flooded,
they had an inch of land to settle overnight, and nuisance and annoyance of mosquitoes was unbearable
to be under water by this found it necessary to go back until it calms the time and to take
new strength and encouragement peers, although the Venerable Father, whom the consolations
of heaven instilled both spirit and courage in so many anxieties,
and zeal for souls made him almost insensitive all jobs.

They all arrived safely on Holy Saturday to the Reduction of San Juan Bautista, having spent
more than forty days in the journey.

The day after Easter tried Fr Zea adjusting to peace and reduce Carer
knowledge of God, thus cleaning the path of danger and meetings with
those Caribbean, causing no little terror to passengers and provided
a pregnancy to the expansion of the holy faith.

Are these career of the same language and nation that Morotocos, with whom shortly before Peace had
been broken by disputes and feuds that had each other, and were followed, both parties, many
deaths and ruined, until tired of fighting and sent to war Carer
messengers to the Morotocos to return to his old friend, but against
every right people gave them to death inhumanely these messengers.

So angry this treacherous to the Carer, who plotted to destroy the
Morotocos, without giving quarter to none, but rather, making pieces
to anyone who came his hands, and celebrating with joy most cruel
meat banquet.

A tame, then, these beasts and reduce the flock of Christ hundred and sixty left Christian
Indian village of St. Joseph, and entering its Rancheria, sought
to introduce peace treaties, but the Carer, without wanting to give
ear to these talks, then got a weapon, and the first strike killed
a Christian Indian and wounded another two.

Neophytes, then offended, gave about them, shooting a storm of arrows
that many were killed: irritability, they could, escaped, and only
collected Sixteen of the mob, which brought to St. Joseph, fell to
our holy faith.

The fugitives, on several occasions, tried to kill P. Zea, but God, who kept him always fought,
in many ways, his rage and cruelty.

As was true Carer referred to, was having the indefatigable missionary to carry out and achieve
the glorious end of such laborious undertaking, for which, by choosing
second time some Christians more courage and strength, started in
late May of 717, and reaching the place of his sweats, then put more
verve to cut trees and to pave the earth, facilitating this work and
fatigue in the hope of good success.

It seemed almost impossible to remove this pregnancy, but nothing is inaccessible, nothing hard
to beat, whom he has offered his spirit to God and his neighbor his
life for the sake of charity.

Twenty days after it was open to anyone in the impenetrable forest, and to the July 12 arrived
at the first Rancheria of Zamucos.

These, whom fame had preceded his coming, we celebrated with demonstrations of extraordinary joy
cercáronle all in a circle, and men all, one by one, we were kissing
his hand, wanted to do the same for women, but the holy man crumbled
all in tears of relief and gave them to kiss the image of the Blessed
Virgin, who brought in hand.

Completed after the neophytes, embracing in peace and love, and I
stayed in their homes, giving them part of the poverty and the country.

The

next day the people gathered in the square, right, and together they gave a brief report of God,
his holy law, and asked if they wanted should come and preach the Missionary Hence the faith
of Jesus Christ and teach the way to heaven.

They answered that he had long wished, and not being Christian and it was because I had no one explain
the mysteries of the faith they had to believe, or the commandments to be observed.

- Well if so - said the Father, bathed in joy - you need to first raise church to your Creator
and Lord, and that you keep company all in one village.

That proposal was raised two principal chiefs, saying they would of goodwill but not there, but in
a better place, and that would gather at once to all the people of the neighborhood to found
a large reduction.

Meanwhile made P. Zea fly a cross on a high, and put all kneel before
it, worship it, and chanted the Litany of the Virgin, placed under
the patronage that people and protection of our Father St. Ignatius,
which gave invocation.

One would have gladly stayed there for warmth to the good will of the Zamucos if there brought
with them the sacred vestments and altar laptop, but he was forced to suffer many inconveniences,
and having nothing else to eat but water and some wild grass roots;
from this cause was to dismiss them and turn then to the same feeling
and pain that started and those who stayed.

On the return was timely opportunity to win for Christ to one hundred Indians of various nations
Zinotecas, Japorotecas and Cucarates that brought to the Reduction
of San Juan Bautista, where as he was preparing again to return to
their Zamucos, received orders to our General Michelangelo Tamburini
father, that he take charge of the provincial government, to they
promptly obeyed, not without pain in his heart incomparable.

And this time he died because the public good of these missions, leaving after two years slightly
less, life in the provincial employment, we here a brief account of the merits starting from
here took with him to Paraguay, for example of the subjects, and
then the sky to receive the crown due to the apostolic workers.

Father was Juan Bautista de Zea, a native of Goaz, instead of Old Castile, where he was born to March
18, 1654.

Here he learned the rudiments of grammar, but by the quality of place and teachers, took over
in devotion in the letters, not least in growing under that year.

To study more science went to the University of Valladolid, where he gave good examples ingenuity
in the speculative sciences, but much more on the saints.

He excelled in maiden modesty, innocence of manners as Christian and kind, great contempt of
worldly things, and not like anything other than God and his soul.

There was little need for one who was so detached from the affections
of flesh and blood surrender to the will of God calling him to the
Company, in which to August 13, 1671 will P. was the most learned
Diego Hurtado de la Fuente, who discovered light sovereign and foreseeing
the end to which God had designed the new Jesuit, it predicted things
great in the service of God and increase the holy Church, and from
then on he always loved and was venerated as a saint.

Zea brother just donned the robes of the Company, when taking over new obligations that she
had contracted, he tried to give them full compliance, and as if I started again the path
of virtue, he looked in the virtues of their connovicios, As observed
in them worthy of emulation to copy itself to the perfection of all.

Bragging to read and consider our rules, they are put forward as a
model, to which perfectly arranged in the interior and exterior.

Had very little to overcome to deliver the all his heart to God, not wanting or loving, or thinking
of other good that Her Majesty and subject testifies he met while studying the philosophy,
having given the Supreme clock care home, was only rather uncomfortable in a room without
leaving it but forced or scholastic functions domestic.

Here all the time that he had plenty of work study God gave it, and very rarely to men, because they
used very little of their conversation, and then only when requested by the obligation.

Then he went to study theology at Salamanca, and at this time the news spread by provinces of
Spain have arrived at Cadiz PP. Cristóbal de Grijalva and Thomas Dombaas, Prosecutors in Paraguay,
and to consider putting on the conversion of idolaters and the extreme distress in which are
innumerable peoples of the West, where extensive field offers copious harvest operators to many
Evangelicals, if there are many who disregard the amenities to attend to the eternal salvation
of souls is kindled the heart the desire to be one of the elect whom he touched the good fortune
to be appointed for the Mission the very extensive province of Paraguay,
and therefore made every effort to reach then leave of his superiors,
who felt much his request, because one part would not deprived of
it, and otherwise would not oppose the will of God, clearly known
their vocation, the American finally prevailed, and the abandoned
paganism of Paraguay by thus, our Zea, happy and alegrísimo broke
his province of Castile, to whom as a child always professed most
tender affection, and his classmates followed him to the heart, retaining
its sweet memory; singularly took pains to master this, your philosophy
Fr Baltasar Rubio, who was confessor of the Most Serene Queen of Spain,
Dona Maria Luisa Savoy, he followed him with affection, with their
prayers and their letters because when offered always hand wrote,
having the P. Zea uploaded concept, as I stated them.

Ordenóse a priest before embarking for the province, he spent the
year 1681 and were just sailed in Cadiz, when occasion offered which
demonstrate the spirit and virtues, of which plenty was prevented
for that trip.

Fell ill almost all his companions, who came to sixty, it is dizzy with extraordinary loss of
appetite and food boredom, to be followed by other diseases, that
killed eight of the Jesuits, as I said in the life of P. Caballero,
who also spent Indians on this occasion.

Fr Zea was time for everyone, serving not only as a nurse, but a cook,
but no experience in such trades, but the charity which is very clever
teacher, taught him these and other offices to serve his brethren.

Convalesced them, used all his thoughts and zeal in the mob of apprentices of the ship, taking
responsibility for the spiritual care of them with the talks, calls, confessions and all other
exercises leading to the advantage of souls, leaving between therefore no work, were vile
and disgusting it was, who did not run on their service, to win them
for God, and better and more happily did win those who were most work
and contempt.

With this size so holy proceeded all the navigation, which lasted three months, taking advantage
many wonderful, whom reduced to living well, and drawing on the eternal truths and putting them
in sight so many dangers and storms at sea, which even the most lost
often obliged to care for the conscience and soul, who had previously
appeared in such neglect or not having it.

What worked after he came to the Indies and in what trades are employed in the long course
his life, I have not been able to ascertain, by the distance of the places where he lived and
worked and having killed many of the Company who treated him familiarly. But I know that by
the I appreciate that from the beginning made him superiors soon
after he arrived from Spain made him minister of the Colegio Máximo
de Cordoba, where they breed the religious youth throughout the province.

After

he was Superior of the Missions of Uruguay, Visitor of the Chiquitos, Vice-Rector College of Córdoba,
and was also designated the Rector of Corrientes, to which for reasons that had proposed, and
recently was Provincial of the province, letter by Death took him a year and a half of his
government.

Now I'll just say briefly something of their virtues, reserving for another day to give in full
respect of all his many enterprises and heroic deeds.

And first tell your religious poverty.

He was always very poor in their dress, so much that by the many patches
that had, say with grace a missionary, he was in more accidents than
substance, he himself mended by their hands never moved another, until
the first, and can not survive, was falling to pieces