 

In 1642 the insurgency worsened in Catalonia and giving Felipe IV at the request of his wife Isabella,
ordered the Principality day rebellious out of that inaction, interrupted only to hunt in the Pardo
or see plays in the Retiro. But the Queen's desire is not fulfilled only half because the
Conde-Duque, against what she wanted with him, does that travel is slow. Go to Aranjuez by
Alcalá, detiénense Party in Cuenca Molina hunt and finally arrive at Zaragoza. There, although
the Spanish army was 45,000 French men and went about Monsoon, he convinces the King private
that should not take the field and leaving you entertained in view from a window playing ball,
He wanders around the city twice a day with an entourage of twelve cars and four soldiers.
This prolongs the stay of the Court in Zaragoza and Velazquez, before and servant as an artist,
has been serving SM, acquaintance of the painter Jusepe Martínez.

They must be real friends, because at the request of Velázquez was appointed painter to the
King Aragon and this camera to write his book of the noble rehearsed Art Painting took few occasions
could to heaping praise on the Seville.

Episode of little importance, but as in Velázquez's all interesting, here's what Martinez has
a case that happened there, "Diego Velázquez Being in this city Zaragoza, attending SM, of
glorious memory, a gentleman asked him to make him a portrait of a daughter of his beloved: he removed
with a delight that you came out with great excellence; finally as his hand made was the head,
for the remainder of the body, not to tire the lady, brought him to my house to finish, which was
half a body, carried him beyond the end a gentleman's house, watching the lady said that no case
had received the portrait: and asking his father what it was based, said, that at all, did
not like, but the Walloon particular she wore when he portrayed was very fine points of Flanders' .-- Reason
Jusepe Martinez had to say that doing portraits' are holding a man to hear many simplicities and ignorance.
"

By this time the Queen, always opposed to bad art with the private ruling, intensified in their efforts
to overthrow him trying to shake off the shameful Felipe IV guardianship in which he lived.
As missing money for the war has provided the bulk of her jewelry to a jeweler Cortizos and sent
her husband eight hundred thousand crowns: they needed more, and the Conde de Castrillo Zaragoza
ordered his remaining jewels, thus seeing the Count-Duke threatened by the impression that such
noble conduct causes in the minds of Philip IV, and wishing to counteract closely, determined
to return to Madrid in December, but his fall was inevitable. Isabel Bourbon succeeded her husband
in private conferences to hear his mother Dona Ana Guevara, who was always seen, the Conde
de Castrillo and especially the Duchess of Mantua that recently arrived from Portugal, I would
say the real causes of the loss of that kingdom, giving these interviews resulted in the following
January when it came to choosing bondage and fourth in the Palace for the Prince Baltasar Carlos,
who was already looking, the King imposed its will on private vigorously, first naming the servants
who wanted, and as regards the room saying, "Why Conde will be better at that than you are now
living, which is typical of the firstborn of the King and he was my father and me was when we were
princes? Desocupadlo immediately, and take home from Palace. " Won the Queen gave Olivares the
secret key that the camera was real and came from Madrid, apparently with permission to retire
to his villa in Loeches, actually threatened, if she did not leave soon, that Felipe IV made
him what his father had done to Don Rodrigo Calderon. Like all has been in a position to do
favors, would Olivares ungrateful in court, but it was not Velázquez them, as almost all his
biographers assert that he remained loyal to the fallen and some clearly states that he visited
during his exile.

Jobs played in Hall also forced him to travel in 1644 to accompany the King.

Lleida besieged by the French, Philip IV took the field in awe of his contemporaries that, praising
him a lot, leave as stated in numerous writings, referring to details of the trappings that
went down, telling that the soldier was dressed in yellow and red, which took given part in the
battle to lift the siege of Lerida and entered it in triumph with costume "buff, silver and
gold embroidery, gold embroidered red band and pearl white hat." Prior to the win the royal
party remained several weeks in Fraga: there was enabled a study in a local so bad that we
had to shore it up, they fell on the floor loads bulrush, and in three days did a portrait Velázquez
SM to be sent to Madrid with that very colorful dress that came into
the city surrendered.

They also portrayed the dwarf called Cousin, who was in the procession, and who, with others
of their ilk, will speak later.

Died that same year, 1644 Isabel de Borbón, whose intelligence and perhaps noble purposes have managed
to overcome the phlegmatic, indolent condition of her husband, made the new journey accompanied
by the Prince Don Baltasar Carlos as heir to the throne I swear the Parliament of Aragon and
Valencia, and with them went Velazquez, but this issue books and papers is interesting news to
our purpose: rather than as a painter, would as a servant, which
proves one of two things: it was so little master of himself, he could
not avoid those occupations unworthy of his genius, or that the King
was not considered as happened without him.

In 1646 Philip IV solves another trip to the lands of Aragon and Navarra by the day and also
leading to the Prince. Velazquez goes with them, this time accompanied by Mazo, who request of Don
Baltasar Carlos depicts the view of Pamplona, ??the table remains, and the Zaragoza, who is in
the Museo del Prado, which are hand of his father, though they deny foreign critics as illustrious
as Armstrong and Justi, extremely elegant figures of the first term,
made with remarkable ease and grace, addressed so that, despite its
size, have the appearance and character of natural [53].

Unfortunately ended this trip, as the Prince died in Zaragoza to October 9, lacking only a few days
to meet seventeen. A peculiar thing related to knowledge worth the time knowing that the Dutch
gentleman Aarsens of Somerdyck, which came shortly later to Spain, regardless of the cause of
the disease, saying that Don Pedro of Aragon, gentle Man of the House of SA, let him spend a night with
a prostitute, of which it originated great weakness and fever: doctors, unaware of the origin of
the disease, bled, accelerating death, and Don Pedro, by consent or not to reveal too much early,
fell from grace though it was private brother, castigándosele with no return to the court and to
live obligándosele at one end of the city without being allowed to make or receive visits ostentation
[54]. As the natives of other nations who come to our own travel writing course his impressions
and adventures not often distinguished by careful and truthful, but err on neglected and lying,
it could be that the Prince did not die of what the Dutch referred. Fray Juan Martinez, who was
confessor to the King and was in Zaragoza when the sad event, Dr. Andrew wrote at length saying
that the disease was smallpox [55]. Instead Matías de Novoa, in his History of Philip IV, narrates
the death with extreme brevity. The letter In those days the King wrote to Sister Mary of
Agreda test on his aching soul for such a great misfortune, Christian resignation prevailed and
triumphed over the pain of a father. Two years later, excluding other links with Ana Maria
de Bourbon, Duchess of Montpensier with Princess Leonor of Mantua and an Archduchess of Inspruck,
his wife agreed to niece, Dona Mariana of Austria, whose marriage was arranged with the poor before
Prince dead in Zaragoza.

All authors who have written the history of fine arts in Spain have that, having attempted
to collect sales tax tribute to painters, the latter, represented by Angelo Nardi and Vicente Carducho,
litigated to demand that the painting was considered an exempt liberal arts. Statements made
on that occasion by eminent men are curious. Dr. Juan Rodriguez de León witnessed with the Holy
Scripture, that the painting came from Heaven, as revealed, for God commanded Ezekiel to paint
the city of God in a brick brought out that Cosimo de Medici, went to Spoleto to bury Fra Filipo
Lippi and spoke estimation afforded by Charles I to Titian, and by Philip II to Sofonisba Cremonense.
Lope de Vega said: "Outside wrong that makes our nation, the other would be taken Barbados, not
believing for art that is with so much veneration in Europe. "Don Juan the Jauregui said that "make
use of the hands is no accident that does not offend the wit and ingenuity Desta sum science,
but having to achieve their effects in the eyes of all uses of colors and hands as he and philosopher
of pen and ink. " The Master Joseph Valdez spoke of what John Bellino honored seniority of Venice,
Durer Emperor Maximilian Andrea Mantegna, the Marquis of Mantua, and Raphael Pope Leo X, and Don
Antonio de Leon, rapporteur the Supreme Council of the Indies, after considering the issue
as a lawyer, wrote in the style of the time that "when human industry, with glimpses of divine
and a spell of eyes, in fantastic shapes, fulfilling the most noble of the senses steal the brushes
to nature, and apparently does not yet soul has a body, what law, what reason can deny the most
singular privilege or less restrained exemption? A much eminence gave the mechanical imposition
of the sales tax. "

When Velazquez was living in Madrid is a curious book printed [56] where all this has, and in
1633 the Treasury Board ruled the suit pursuant to the desire of painters. Does need more
to understand that the enlightened men of that time, although they express with such twisted
statements, knew and proclaimed the respect it deserves art. Despite Diego Velázquez which
was still more than a painter, servant of the King, or rather, was a servant who painted. And
it does not allege in excuse of Philip IV that does not honor otherwise part of a common error
to his contemporaries. What is not without grace is that almost all the characters who contributed to
that information thought to flatter the King consigning SM also painted.

This

was the years passed, no one tried to collect sales tax painters, Velazquez, dignified even
after his art with the famous relief, continued to appear on the payroll Alcazar's servers.
Evidence that is not distinguished and were pampered sites it was intended in bullfights, in
which they were entitled to attend many Palacio dependent. In the runs of 1640 he was appointed
seat on the fourth floor Bakery House, appearing in the same list as the groom of the Conde-Duque,
barbers Chamber, merchants and servants of the King of the Marquis del Carpio. In 1648, his name is
better company, is on the fourth floor, at the Puerta de Guadalajara, GREFi near the Tuson.
When King did not attend the order was exchanged, and then I could sit on the third floor houses the
Bakery cuddle near the grooms SM, some senior officials of state, doctors and the deputy House
packer more [57].

Apparently not important in the study of his life as an artist the
nature of the charges played, but if we look to serve the time wasted
on that could exploit painting, are what posterity will have lost it.

Was usher from 1627 to 1634, aid wardrobe until 1643, no exercise,
and with him until 1645; valet without exercise from 1643 to 1646.

Upon returning to Madrid, after Zaragoza last day, would make the annoying chores typical of such
sinecure; most of which were deeply imbued with the concerns of the time, that being a servant
of His Majesty looked so honored that up on the covers of his works to record writers was
natural that wanted some rest and freedom according to their inclinations and temperament artist.
After having gone several times with the royal entourage touring the provinces, where what could
be gradually learn, perhaps think, although it was already forty-nine, according to your taste
in travel, study and enjoyment. The fact of having appointed overseer works that were made in the
old tower of the Alcázar to make octagonal piece of speaking real archival documents, must
promote its purpose, and perhaps would contribute to determine the pictures come up to acquire
King for ornament of that part of the palace that was reforming. The fact is that in practical
discourse, talking about Velazquez Martínez Jusepe account the following: "SM Propúsole I wanted to
do a gallery adorned paintings, and for this we seek master painters to choose from them the
best ' to which he replied: "Your Majesty must not have pictures that each man may take them."
His Majesty replied: "How must this be?" And Velazquez said: "I dare, sir, (if VM gives me license),
go to Rome and Venice to find the best pictures and fairs who are Titian, Paolo Veronese,
Bashan, Raphael Urbino, the Parmesan and the like, which of these such paintings are very few princes
who have them, and in such quantity as V. M. diligence will I do, and more that will need to
decorate the lower parts antique statues, and we could have not be emptied and females bring Spain,
to empty after every performance here. "" SM diol license - just saying Martinez - to return
to Italy with all the necessary facilities and credit. "

Judging by the many beautiful works of art brought to the King, this was the cause of his second
trip to Italy not as noted by some to be decided by then found Academy in Madrid projected in the
previous reign.

Before starting out, trying pool resources, called paid him arrears owed some consideration
to who was not lavishly paid, and because they see how far the disorder in the administration
of the royal house, here is the order issued by Philip IV to collect:

"Diego Velázquez has shown me that the paintings he has done for my service since the year 628
to 640, and the tricks of a painter of the years from 630 to 634,
failed the entry, you must subtract 34,000 real, because otherwise
been paid in I sent him 500 ducats in the regular wage of the waiver
for months, from 640, pleading to be served in order that these 500
ducats will meet at 700 and are paid in the same consignment until
your liking to accommodate you in anything equivalent to being able
to support, that will be satisfied of this debt and other paintings
he has done and do that on, and I have come to give what he asks,
the Bureo provide that well run, preventing the necessary arrangements.

Madrid May 18, 1648. (Category of King). "

Until five months she did Bureo case: Finally, in October the same year marked the decree.

Hallab then prepared to leave Madrid embassy headed by very numerous the Duke of Nájera and escorted
by twenty-four soldiers of the Spanish guards had to pick Trento to the Archduchess Dona Mariana
of Austria, the future wife of the King. Many people would with Duke over other lords, was in
his company upholsterer, pastry beds, pharmacists, usher of tubers and greengrocers official
[58].

Without doubt walk more comfortably and safely, Velazquez joined the procession and this made
say good Palomino "was sent by His Majesty's Ambassador Extraordinary
to Italy the Pope Innocent X ".

The truth is that King, in order of November 25, 1648, ordered than "Diego Velázquez to his
valet about this trip to Italy, to things of the Royal service, you give the coach he plays for his
office, and a pack horse to carry more some paintings' in which, accompanied by his slave [59]
Juan de Pareja, Madrid, left November 16 and arrived in Malaga where the fleet sailed, Thursday
January 21, 1649.

The trip should not be entirely happy, because Mascarene referring to one of the galleys Fleet,
said he suffered serious storm in the Gulf of Lions, being necessary to throw the Water artillery,
and another came in Genoa when everyone thought lost. Genoa passed Milan Velazquez "but did not
stop to see the entrance to the Queen to be prevented with great display ... no longer see the
Last Supper of Christ with his apostles, the successful work of hand Leonardo de Vinci 'very
natural feature on an artist who talks about being sick of the ceremonies palate of the Court
of the Habsburgs. Padua passed quickly and stood in Venice, where spent twelve thousand crowns
in five tables and tried in vain to move like Pedro de Cortona Spain at the service of Philip
IV, getting, instead, that they did some time after Colonna and Mitelli. Bologna came out to
greet the Earl of river to a mile from the city: in Florence, Modena and Parma stopped shortly
and without stopping long at Rome, went to Naples, and because there were easier to collect funds
from Spain to send him, or because had orders to receive the Viceroy, Conde de Oñate, who had
charged Felipe IV take care of compliance as it related to the purpose of the trip. Neither this
nor obedience Bank meeting with the Españoleto still lived there, I entertained much and returned
to Rome where he was to be consecrated his glory with one of the most important works out of his hand.

[Image:
MUSEO DEL PRADO

FELIPE IV

FRAME. M. Moreno]

Occupied the papal throne Juan Bautista Panfili, which years ago was nuncio in Madrid apostolic
and that being elected pope, taking the name Innocent X. No volunteers have been with him historians,
but without much attention to the scathing Abbe Gualdi, or Don Juan
Antonio Llorente, one may believe that by cruel and greedy, before
it was worthy of reproach that deserves of praise.

Acusósele have promoted insurrection to boot the city Naples the
domain of Spain looking for increased papal territory, and to talk
about him no yours shuts intimacy with his sister Maldachini Olimpia,
which hides behind a curtain, embassies and attending hearings, and
sold the dignities and ecclesiastical benefices.

Both allowed to dominate it, which ran in Rome satirical medals were
on the front Olympia with tight tiara and hands the keys of St. Peter,
and Pope back feminine styling and holding a spinning wheel.

Innocent X was very ugly and that was persuaded of it, thus presenting
a relative of his Olympia to bad catadura said: "Quitadmelo front,
and not brought back on me, because it's ugly and ordinary I do.

"

He wanted, however, portrayed him Velázquez and this by way of a first painted study head of
his slave Juan de Pareja, who was of mixed race and color generation strange made the - says Palomino
- "so similar and so vividly who, having sent to the same couple censorship of some friends, they
watched the original portrait and in awe and wonder, not knowing with whom they speak or who
had to respond. This portrait - add - that body was half natural, Flemish painter had Andrés Esmit
in this court, which time was in Rome that style being the day of St. Joseph, the cloister
is decorated of the Rotunda, where he is buried Raphael of Urbino, with distinguished ancient
and modern paintings, This portrait was made with such universal applause at the site, who to
vote for all artists of different nations, everything else seemed to paint, but this one truth:
in whose care Velázquez was greeted by Roman Academic year 1650. "

The couple in this picture painted half-length figure something cracked
and facing: the hair is long, very black and curly, his face, coppery
tone, highlights in gray verdastro and bears an olive jacket, white
scalloped flange, and cape, gathered on the shoulder left, subject
to the right hand than to the lower chest is drawn in a curve.
