 

The Governor, on boundaries.

Sir, -

Assumption, June 14, 1794.

VS receipt of the currents of 7, which, after copying the actual resolution for we confront our observations,
makes me know what relationship the river course Corrientes and what he has written about the
superiority, which is exactly the same as I have made known to the King many years ago: so,
news of VS come to be the same I have, and based on them wrote to
VS on January 7, 1792 when the ignorant VS. And since then no further
developments occurred that VS order to copy me, I shall remains to
add.

Our Lord, & c.

XXXVII.

At the same, on a Portuguese population.

Sir, -

Assumption, June 14, 1794.

Just spread on the public's voice that the Portuguese have settled
north de la Villa de la Concepcion, and south of the Rio Corrientes,
on land that we compete for treated, according to SM is declared in
February 6, 1793, whose resolution is real VS And while I find sufficient
grounds to give credence to that voice, the subject is so I can not
hide serious Lordship, as head of the province, that will serve in
government.

Our Lord, & c.

XXXVIII.

The Viceroy, acknowledging receipt of a royal order.

Exmo. Sir, -

Assumption, June 9, 1794.

I received the Excellency of April 10 this year, when I copy of the most excellent. Mr. Duke of
Alcudia, date August 10 of last year, and she was informed that S. M. is imposed on the reflections
that I did to you the January 19, 1793. Not happening to add on this subject, I ask God to
keep VE many years.

XXXIX.

At the same, very quiet.

Exmo. Sir, -

Assumption, June 19, 1794.

In view of the VE of 23 last April, which also went to the Governor
VE Intendant of the province, has informed me that he knows the river
currents, and I have answered that their news is the same as I have,
and I participated YE often that SM is fine imposed.

On this occasion I must not conceal from Your Excellency to contemplate
that the Governor should not know other things that precise, because,
although I can not justify, or presumably has illicit correspondence
with the Portuguese, the good news is that it has repeatedly they
received too many gifts of money, and those who have come to our Villa
de la Concepcion the imponderable has personally presented with care,
and so is made by the Commander, and a Portuguese D. Juan Lorenzo
Gaona, secretary and family Governor, has, as they say, a foreman
in the profits and businesses in this town; every four months where
the Portuguese have their boats loaded, as I have heard.

It is also
true that, having dropped a soldier of Coimbra, and come to this from
Misiones where is the governor commanded to arrest and return, taking
as their theme the treaties that do not speak of that. It is true
that the Adviser, to whom he sent egecutar the return, has resisted,
for it seemed contrary to humanity and the law of nations, and to
what, before receiving gifts, ordered the Governor himself gave instructions
to the Commander Presidio de Borbon.

It has now come to this one
Portugues by Missions, where he met with the Governor, and say that
was recommended, because in his house gave him a lot