 The first female in the world! - good
woman running unwrinkle frowning and laughing, as he undressed and ran as if a sick child.

This was his only vice. Poor thing! ... Women and gambling, or signal. His egoism, which was
well dressed, as the family walked in rags, and the unequal allocation work products, compensábalos
with generic. Mrs Angus remember with pride the great feast days, when John was put on the
shawl of Manila, wedding blanket, and taking the children marched ahead to his side, with white Cordovan
hat and silver-headed cane, strolling by the Delicias, with the same air of a merchant family
Sierpes Street. The days of the flights bulls regaled course before going to the plaza, offering
her a beer of chamomile Bell or a coffee in the Plaza Nueva. This happy time was no longer anything
but a faint and pleasant remembrance in memory of the poor woman.

Mr. Juan ill with consumption, and for two years the wife had to attend
to their care, further exaggerating their industries to compensate
for the lack of the peseta which betrayed him before the husband.

He eventually died in the hospital, resigned to his fate, convinced that the existence no good
without chamomile and no fights, and his last look of love and gratitude was for his wife, as
if you scream with his eyes: "Olé! World's first female !...»

When left alone Mrs. Angustias not worsened her situation, but rather,
we considered with more disengage movements, free of the man who in
the past two years weighed more about it than the rest of the family.

Energetic woman and prompt decisions, marked once a path to their children. Encarnacion, who
was already seventeen years, went to Tobacco Factory, where his mother was able to enter through
their relationships with certain friends Youth arrivals teachers. Juanillo, that boy had spent
the day in the portal Fair district of watching his father work, going to be a shoemaker by
the will of Mrs. Troubles. Him out of school, where she learned the wrong read, and twelve years
came apprenticed to one of the best shoemakers in Seville.

Here began the martyrdom of the poor woman.

Oh, that boy! Son of parents so honored!

... Almost every day, instead of entering shop teacher, was going to the slaughter with some crooks
who have their meeting point on a bench in the Alameda de Hercules, and to the delight of shepherds
and butchers, dared to take a cloak to steers being flipped and kicked most of the time. Mrs
Angus, that needle in hand watched many nights the child was decentito the workshop, with clean
clothes, I was at the door of your home, afraid to enter and worthless at the same time to
flee the bondage of hunger, with ripped jeans, dirty jacket and bumps and scratches on his face.

For
the traitor ox bruises uníanse slaps and mother's broom, but the Slaughterhouse hero went through
everything so they do not need the pittance.

"Pega, but give me that eat. "And with the appetite aroused by the violent exercise, swallowed
hard bread, beans damaged, rotten cod, all food waste that the industrious woman sought in stores
to support the family with little money.

Busy all day scrubbing floors in the homes of others, only now and
then could deal his son, going to the shop teacher to learn about
the progress of the apprentice.

When snorted back of the shoe store of courage, proposing the most wonderful punishments corrected
the rascal.

Most of the days did not show up at the store.

Spent the morning in the slaughterhouse, and in the evening was the group at the entrance
to the street with other homeless Sierpes, admire about the bullfighters without contracts that
came together in La Campana, dressed again with brand new hats, but no more than a quarter in his
pocket and talking everyone from their own exploits.

Juanillo regarded them as beings of astonishing superiority, envying their good poise and freshness
that compliments to women. The idea that all they had at home a silk dress embroidered with
gold, and placed in him before the crowd marched to the sound of music producíale a shiver of respect.

The
son of Mrs. Angus was known for his ragged Zapaterin between friends
and showed himself satisfied to have a nickname, like almost all great
men that go to ring.

For a start. He wore a red scarf around his neck that was stolen from her sister, and below
the cap salíale hair piled on the ears in thick clumps, which smoothed with saliva. Queríalas
denim blouses to the waist, with numerous folds. Pants, old remains of his father's clothes off by
Ms. Anguish, exigíalos high waist with wide legs and hips well reflected, crying humiliation
when the mother did not want to adhere to these requirements.

A cape! Having a layer of hard work, not having to beg other loan happier the coveted cloth
for a few minutes! ... In a small room of the house lay forgotten
an old mattress with flabby gut.

Tell them the wool sold in days Mrs. Anguish of trouble. The Zapaterin spent a week locked in
the room, taking advantage of the absence of his mother, who worked that day as a maid in the house
of a canon. With the ingenuity of the shipwrecked sailor, delivered its initiatives, you have to make
all on a desert island, cut off a cloak of fighting in the wet and frayed fabric. Then boiled
in a pot a handful of red aniline purchased at a drugstore, and plunged into the dye the old canvas.
Juanillo admired his work. A cloak the most vivid scarlet, which was to arouse much envy in capeas
of the people! ... All that remained was to dry up, and put clothes in the sun from white neighbors.
Wind, to rock the rag dripping, staining the pieces was immediate, and a concert of curses and
threats, fists clenched and mouths that uttered the ugliest words against him and his mother,
Zapaterin forced to pick up his mantle of glory and leave by foot, covered with red face and hands,
as if he had to commit murder.

Mrs Angus, strong female, obese and whiskered, who feared and inspired men respect women for
their strong resolutions, showed himself to disheartened and loose
your child.

What to do! ... His hands habíanse tested in all parts of the body of a child; broom broke no
avail. He was cursed, she said, dog meat. Accustomed away the tremendous headers of the calves,
the cow kicked cruel, sticks to the shepherds and butchers, who were seeking the rascals mercilessly
bullfighting, the beating of the mother seemed to him a natural fact, a continuation of the outer
life, which dragged inside your home, and accept no purpose of amendment, as a cleavage had to
pay in exchange for sustenance, chewing stale bread with ravenous delight, while Maternal curses
and punches rained down on their backs.

Just sated their hunger fled from the house, using the freedom in which he left Mrs. Anxieties
leave for their work.

In The Hood, agora venerable of bullfighting, which circulate the
biggest news of the fans received notice of their colleagues who produce
shivers of excitement.

- Zapaterin, morning run.

The people of the province celebrating the patron saint fiestas with
bull capeas corridos, and there marched the young fighters, in the
hope of being able to say they had turned tended the cape in glorious
places Aznalcollar, Bullullos or Mairena.

Undertook the up at night, with the layer to shoulder if it was summer and wrapped it in the winter,
empty stomach continuously talking bull.

If the march was several days, camping in the open or were admitted for charity in the haystack
of a sale. Woe to the grapes, melons and figs that were to step in
the right time!

... His only concern was that another group, another "gang", had had the same thought and is present
in the village, establishing tough competition.

When they reached the end of his journey, eyebrows and mouth full
of dust, loose and dismissals by the way, were presented to the mayor,
and the most shameless, filling the roles director, spoke of the merits
of his people happy by giving everyone for generosity The chambers
in the municipal block from the inn, giving them over with a pot,
which was clean a few moments.

In the square of the area, closed to cars and tables, soltábanse old bulls, real castles of meat, full
of scabs and scars, horns splintered and large, animals that had many years of being bullfights
at all parties in the province; Revered animals who "knew Latin", such was their malice, and
accustomed to a steady bullfighting were in the secret of fighting skills.

The young men prodded the people to the beasts from a safe place, and people looking for reason fun,
more so than in the bull in the "bullfighters" came from Seville. They tended their coats shaky
legs and encouragement comforted by the weight of the stomach. Tumble, and large uproar in the
audience.

When one, with sudden terror, took refuge in the stockade, peasant barbarism welcomed him with
insults, blows to the hands gripping the wood, giving caned on the legs to jump to the square.
"Gee, you rascal! To give face the bull, a liar !...»

Have you ever taken out of the square to one of the "skilled" between four companions, pale
whiteness of paper, glazed eyes, his head down, his chest like a broken bellows. Came the
farrier, reassuring all seeing no blood.

It was a concussion suffered by the boy to be fired a few yards away, falling to the ground
like a sack of clothes. Other Sometimes it was the anguish of having been trampled by a beast of
enormous grief. He threw a bucket of water over his head, and then, regaining their senses, with
a large obsequiábanle Cazalla drink of brandy from the Sierra. Not a prince could be better care.

In
the square again. And when the pastor did not fit bulls and the approaching release evening,
two of the crew caught the best cape of society, and supported by the tips table in table ranged
from asking for a reward.

Rained down on the red cloth coins copper according to the taste which had given the residents
the exploits of outsiders, and finished undertook the run around the city, knowing that the inn had
exhausted their credit. Often quarreled on the way for the distribution of the coins stored in knotted
handkerchief.

Then in the rest of the week, recalled his exploits in the eyes of the cronies absorbed that
were not the issue.

They spoke of Veronica in the Garrobo, their Navarre Lora, or a terrible caught in El Pedroso, imitating
the air and the real attitudes professionals within walking distance of them comforted their
lack of contracts with every arrogance and lies.

Once, Ms. Angus was more than a week without knowing of his son.

Finally had vague word that he had been injured in an amateur bullfight in the town of bacon.
My God! Where would those people? How to get to him? ... Gave his son died, I cried, wished, however,
go there, and when the trip was available to reach Juanillo, pale, weak, but talking to manly joy
of his accident.

It was nothing: a puntazo in a buttock, a wound several inches deep. And the shamelessness of
the triumph, I wanted to show it to the neighbors, claiming that she got into a finger without
reaching the end. He felt proud of the stench of iodoform that was spreading in its wake, and
spoke of the care with which he had been treated in that town, it was for him the best Spain. Wealthier
neighbors, as it were the aristocracy, were interested in their fate; the mayor had come to him,
after paying the return trip. Still kept in his pocket three dollars, that he gave his mother with
a generosity of a great man. And as much glory to fourteen! Your satisfaction was even greater
when in La Campana, some bullfighters - but real bullfighters - turned their attention to the boy,
asking how its going to hurt.

After this accident did not return to the tent of his master. Knew what they were bulls; his
wound had served to increase his boldness. Torero, torero nothing but! Mrs. Anxieties abandoned
any intention of correcting, judging useless. It was realized that there was his son. When
present in home at night, when the mother and Sister ate together, they did so dish silent,
trying to overwhelm him with contempt. But this in no way altered his chewing. If you arrive
late, do not bore or a crust, and had to turn to the street as he
had come.

Night-walker was in the Alameda de Hercules with vicious eyes other boys, mix Learner confusing criminal
and bullfighter. The neighbors found him sometimes the streets talking to gentlemen whose presence
made women laugh, or with serious gentlemen slander those who gave feminine nicknames. Some
seasons he sold newspapers, and the great feasts of Easter offering to the ladies sitting in the
plaza of San Francisco trays of sweets.

At fair time wandering in the vicinity of the hotel waiting an 'English', since for him all
the passengers were British, hoping to serve as a guide.

- Milord!

... I torero! - Said to see an exotic figure, as if his professional a recommendation was indisputable
for foreigners.

And to certify their identity took off his hat, throwing back the
queue, a lock of a fourth that had stretched out on the top of the
head.

His misery was mate Chiripa, boy the same age, small body and eyes
malicious, without father or mother, who wandered through Seville
since I can remember and exercised on Juanillo the domain of experience.

He had a cut cheek and the scar of a goring, and this signal considerábala the Zapaterin as something
far beyond its invisible injury.

When the door of a hotel, some avid traveler of "local color" with
small talk bullfighters, admiring her pigtails and the story of his
wounds, to stop giving them money, Chiripa sentimental tone said:

-
Nah, you do not give to the practitioners which mare, and I'm alone
in the world er.

Tié mare who does not know what you have!

And Zapaterin, with a sad regret, allowing the other to seize all money, muttering:

- It's true ... is green.

This tenderness did not prevent their continued existence Juanillo abnormal, appearing in Madame
Angustias very from time to time and taking trips away from Sevilla.

Fluke was a master of the wandering life. The days of racing we stated in his will the purpose
of entering into the bullring with his comrade, appealing to it to the stratagems climbing
the walls, sliding or soften the crowd with humble employees pleas.

A bullfight without that they saw them, they were of the profession! ... When capea had not
in the villages of the province, would take his rag to the bulls in the meadow Tablada, but
all these attractions of life in Seville not enough to satisfy his ambition.

Chiripa had run the world, and spoke to his companion of the great
things seen by him in distant provinces.

He was skilled in the art of free travel, surreptitiously sneaking in trains. The Zapaterin
listened with rapt descriptions of Madrid, a city dream with its Plaza de Toros was by way
of a cathedral of bullfighting.

A gentleman, by laughing at them and said to the door of a cafe on the street Sierpes Bilbao
win that much money because there are not many bullfighters in Seville, and the two boys started to
go, clean pocket and no other team that its layers, layers 'real', which had been bullfighters
cartel, miserable wastes acquired real in a few ropavejería.

Introducíanse cautiously on trains and hid under the seats, but hunger and other needs required them to
report their presence to travelers, who eventually sympathize with these adventures, laughing
at their strange shapes, their pigtails and capes, aided with the remains of their lunches.
When an employee gave hunting seasons, running from car to car or attempting to climb the roof
to wait crouched on the train launched. Often surprised them, and grabbing the ears, accompanied
slapped and kicked, left in the lonely station platform as the train
moved away as a forlorn hope.

Awaiting the passage of another, bivouacking outdoors, and if they were closely monitored, undertook
immediate progress towards the station through the deserted fields, certain to be more fortunate.
Just arrived in Madrid after several days of long and eventful journey to the accompaniment
stops strokes. In the streets of Seville and the Puerta del Sol admired groups of fighters without
Contractual higher authorities, who dared to seek, without success,
a charity to continue trip.

A boy from the Plaza de Toros, who was in Seville, took pity on them and let them sleep in
the blocks, providing them the delight of witnessing a run of steers the famous circus, which seemed
less important than its land.

Afraid of their audacity and seeing more and more distant the end of the excursion, undertaken return
to Sevilla as they had come, but since then took a taste for travel sneaking onto the railway. Dirigíanse
minor villages in different provinces when they heard vague news Andalusian holiday with their
capeas.

Just arrived Mancha and Extremadura to, and if the chances of bad luck requiring them to march
foot, seeking refuge in the homes of peasants, gullible people and smiling, which is missed
of its few years of their boldness and deceitful talk, taking them for real tenderers.

This wandering life made them easy ways of primitive man used to meet their needs. In the vicinity
of the cottages on the belly arrastrábanse, stealing vegetables without being seen. They waited for
hours to come near a lone hen to them, and twisting the neck will go on, to light a wood fire
dry in the middle of the day and swallow the poor charred and medium rare animal with a voracious
of little savages. They feared the dogs of the field rather than
the bulls.

It was difficult beasts for the fight, running towards them showing their fangs, as if the anger
his exotic look and sniff in their persons enemies of the property.

Many times when sleeping outdoors near a station, waiting for the passage of a train we got them a couple
of Civil Guards. When you see the red wrappings which served Pillow these vagrants, soldiers
tranquilizábanse order. I gently removed caps, and to find the furry appendage of the queue, they
walked away giggling over inquiries. They were not thieves: they were fans who went to the amateur
bullfight. And in this tolerance was a mixture of sympathy for the national holiday and respect before
the darkness of the future. Who would know if any of these boys ragged, crusty misery, would
be the future an "art star" a great man who sires a toast to kings, live like a prince, whose exploits
and those reproducing the papers! ...

One afternoon, the Zapaterin left alone in a village in Extremadura. For more awe the public
rustic applauding the famous bullfighters' come on purpose of Seville ", the boys wanted flags
nailed to a bully and an old bull. Juanillo put their sticks to the fierce and stayed with a
boardwalk, enjoying receive popular acclaim in the form of slaps and offers tremendous sips
of wine.

An exclamation of horror him out of the intoxication of glory.

Fluke was no longer on the floor of the plaza. Only the flags were in it rolling in the dust a
shoe and cap. She moved the bull as irritated at an obstacle, being engaged one of its horns
a bundle of clothes like a puppet. With the violent headbutts The report was released horn
package, expelling a jet red, but before reaching the soil was achieved by the opposite pole,
which in turn shook him a long time.

At last the sad package fell headlong, and lay there, limp and lifeless, releasing liquid such
as a skin pierced expelling the jets came.

The pastor, with his oxen, took the bull pen, because no one dared approach him, and poor Chiripa
was conducted on a pallet to a small room that served as City Hall imprisonment. Her partner
was with a white face as if it were cast, eyes dull and blood-red body, but it could contain
the vinegar and water wipes it applied in the absence of anything
better.

- Adio, Zapaterin! - Sigh -. Adio, Juaniyo!

And he said
no more. The companion of the dead began returning to Sevilla terrified,
seeing his eyes glassy, ??hearing his whining goodbyes. I was scared.
A gentle cow coming out the way you had been run. He thought of his
mother and the wisdom of his advice. Was it not better engage shoemaker
and live peacefully? ... But these purposes only lasted while he was
alone.

Arriving in Sevilla felt the influence of environment. The
friends ran to him to know in full detail the death of poor Chiripa.
Professional bullfighters was asked La Campana, remembering with shame
to that urchin cut face that many times they ran errands. Juan, emboldened
by such tokens of regard, giving vent to its power imaginative, describing
how he had thrown on the bull to see his poor caught companion how
he had caught the bug in the queue, and other prodigious feats, despite
which the other had left the world