 Freya moaning eyes
closed, without departing from its inertia.

The sailor, scowling, wrinkled with rage, with tragic ugliness, remained motionless, staring
grimly female to fall.

I was satisfied with his brutality, was a timely relief, breathing better. At the same time
I felt shame. "What have you done, cowardly ?...» For the first time in its existence had
hit a woman.

His right hand was sore to the eye level. One of his fingers bled. Maybe had caught on her earrings,
perhaps he had torn a lost pin on his chest.

He sucked the blood of the deep scratch and then forget this wound to continue watching the
body lying at his feet.

Little by little accustomed to the dim light of the room. Saw and all objects clearly. Freya
covered his eyes with a look that blended the hatred and remorse.

The head, buried in the pad, had a painful profile. She seemed much older, as if his age would
have doubled with tears.

The brutal coup had done away with funeral flapping its wonderful freshness and youth. His eyes
were half open an aura of momentary wrinkles, the nose had taken the pale edging of the dying.
The hull of her hair, broken under the punch, spread on brown and
wavy meshes.

Something black forming snaking tendrils of silk cushion.

Blood was running a short distance between heraldic flower embroidery, blood flowing from the
hidden temple, to be drunk by drying the soft padding.

Ferragut, to make this discovery, he felt increased their confusion. Stepped on body lay, for
the door. Why still there? ... All I had to do and was done, all they could say was already
said.

- Do not go, Ulises! - Sighed a mournful voice -. Listen! ... This is your life.

The fear that was incorporated to flee the painful moans, and this
movement accelerated the output of your blood ... The cushion continued
as a meadow watered thirsty.

An irresistible pity, equal to that of a stranger could feel abandoned in the middle Street, pushed
back to sea.

His eyes were fixed on a high glass tube rose from the ground with
his mouth full of flowers.

A blow on the carpet spread all this spring arranged earlier by feminine
hands with the fever that has waiting for the minutes and lives.

He dipped his handkerchief in the water of the flowers and knelt
Freya, raising his head pad. She was allowed to wash the wound with
a sick child abandonment, setting in offender pleading eyes, that
opened for the first time whole.

When the blood ceased to arise in
the head forming a red clot, Ferragut tried to lift.

- No, well let
me - she whispered -. I'd rather be at your feet. I am your slave
... your thing. Hit me more, if that calms your anger.

Wanted to
assert his humility advancing towards him with a kiss lips timid,
grateful servant.

- Ah, no! ... No!

Ulysses, to escape the touch,
stood with violence.

Again felt hatred against women by degrees recovered
his senses