 I found him
more "human" than before, no doubt because it was also more depressed. Tempt him not desire speak,
nor was desirable provocársele as very expensive custom of Neluco, tell me I think by having
nothing else to occupy them there. It was certain that I had come really want to my uncle:
the view was what hurt me the seriousness of his condition and the danger he was in the hands
quedársenos when least expected, and yet the prospect of that number of bed days imposed by the doctor
to the patient, with Subject to that made me this extent, the scant and gloomy precincts of
that room, and tenacious, thick snow that had heaven in darkness, the earth without soil to
tread and imprisoned its inhabitants, I worried and hurt me why deny it! more. The heart frequently
vitiated human of these ailments, not evil itself, but for lack education of the feelings, disuse
of the most delicate of them, remnants of selfishness acquired the freedom of a life without
barriers and boundaries. I Explicábame that weakness, which seemed to grave sin, with these
thoughts, and they consoled me, although not as much as the hope that plans be made and come
Neluco Lita and her mother, Lita especially to relieve the weight of the cross, renewing the air
and faces and sounds and light up those areas sorrowful, silent, black and dreary. But lend
themselves to come Mari Pepa and her daughter, despite their good and charitable desires?
Is not arredrarían barriers of snow and cold, cold that he had not felt maybe I did in Russia, not
to be in Tablanca other recourse than to the kitchen and a bad brazier to fight him? I knew Mal
breaths tablanquesas ladies! By midmorning entered the door of the room of the house the daughter
and granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco, shortly after I heard if any "chirp" and fill the passage
of Argentina and harmonious voices. Also He had guessed my uncle.

- Jesus! ... The cellerisca! - He exclaimed, to hear, in a tone that showed more joy weigh.

I went to meet him and got a pinch without hiding the great joy that his visit gave me. The eyes
and nose were all that was seen of his people: all else was a conglomerate
skirts, jackets, shawls and woolen shawls thick and sweet.

Asking and saying, pray quietly (when it was undesirable that could hear my uncle), now almost
shouting (to agree hear it), were loosened head and discovering his face, until it appeared in
Lita (I saw little in the other) as moon in January between gray clouds, or more properly, as
an August apple wrapped in the leaves of the branch: this was coloradito of smooth and down the
roundness of her flesh there.

As they came well-informed and educated by Neluco, little or no talk about the role they corresponded
in the comedy that we were going to represent in front of the patient.

Don Pedro Nolasco was unable to accompany them, or rather, had not allowed them, for fear fall
would have been fatal in hombrazo of his years ... because they were the roads Virgin Mary,
our Mother! they were scary. It 'eslociaban "foot in the snow as eels in hand. Only on the
rise it had fallen scree (Lituca) twice, and the same knee that must have made a pity. I had not
seen it yet, but I could swear by what the "sting", but not preventing movement, thank God.
Moreover, they knew that the patient did not suit him talk, although the request: the Occasionally,
some chunga, as if evil was a joke, on time and with love, drugs and food, and to forgive
them if they openly for inviting us to eat, because they, under the pretext of the snow, had planned
to stay until night without Don Celso malice the truth of reason. They came equipped to do more
entertaining work hours remaining around the brazier.

My uncle were received with four jokes and some regrets. Although still alive, was given be
dead now. They protested against the course, assuring him that he had "lodging" then it was the
coldness of snow, and may also feel some of that would give the knowledge
of what happened on the mountain the day before.

- Do not deny it
- it answered my uncle - and therefore no two ways about what you
I said, for what can be expected as a man of my vein when left mayor,
as I am mayor, by tinkering like that?

It was the truth, but, nevertheless, insisted the women bonísimas deny it, but not the impetus
needed to achieve its charitable purposes, they were extremely affectionate
and were imposed and shaken before that exhaustion and that cadaverous
pallor the poor Don Celso, neither for the sake of maintaining their
rights ignored by professional tyranny of Neluco, remembered and rising.

They

left at last in the calm he needed instalámonos in the adjoining room, came gray woman with
encogollado brazier of glowing embers, put him in the box that was there, and we sat around it,
without losing sight of the sick, Mari Pepa, her daughter and me.

Mari Pepa got a very large pocket of her apron to the accoutrements of media; Lita (I did
not know what withdrawal of its complicated wrappers) to the nail, and both began to work in their
work and talk at the same time, but with eyes and sign with the mouth, which had to do with
the status of my uncle. Of "what happened yesterday," there was much more, and with some care to not
heard from the bedroom as I could impress again.

It was a miracle of God that we do not hear most of it, because with the stubborn determination
I had in that there should be something between Lita and physician I was really heavy and insistent
in certain passages of dialogue, particularly during Mari Pepa getaway to the bedroom, because
my uncle had coughed or believed that he had called ... or to see if I needed something, but
coughed or call. At Don Pedro Nolasco had known all, shortly before going on "the cloud" that had
terrified. They had lived in the same anguish I late into the night. I spoke of Lita had doubts
Toper's home, and here's where my tenacity bordering on impertinence. I met him at a glance
strangeness with my beautiful interlocutor who responded to me a hint that were cleared too
my intentions. I won the serenity that seemed protest against poor understood right to ask "certain
things" for very obvious they were.

Then came Don Sabas, complaining since the passage of the regard that had been saved in our house that
night. Who told us that traveling at about the mountain, no guts to stay with him for doing his
duty at any time to call your door? And if the thing had pressed a little more than pressed,
what would have been Christian in danger of death? Who have been the responsibility? What would
he said and what of us? ... And while not squeezing the thing, how soon are good friends?

- Well, look - he said to bed hugging Don Celso - what is it you do not forgive.

- Bah, bah! - The aforementioned thrashing grumbled a bit - do not break my head. You can JACER what
suits you, well I know what I did.

- Jinojo! - Said Don Sabas - is that the courtesy that was such that if not now topo mesmo
with Neluco, blessed day passes without me to know what happened to you last night.

I intervened, desenojé the Priest, he remained alone with my uncle
and continue the others around brazier, as before, talk talk, on "last
night" over "what happened yesterday" and even on certain promises
made by me to my interlocutors that the day was known, eat at home
any time; promise was still unfulfilled, because it noticeable from
the hectic life he led uphill and downhill, if not the fierce temporary
I had locked the house.

At noon came Neluco, not found in the patient nothing special or
new, nor wanted to enter the plea I made to stay and eat us pray for
his part, I was rebuffed and the Cure.

Then they went both together after prescribing first aid plan for the evening, and to avert the
second to that for any reason or human courtesy we fail to notify
the minor novelty Lita and her mother returned to the bedroom of the
patient to weigh the improvement noticed in he (and God knows how
knowingly lied in their weights), and give Mari Pepa few sips of milk
while his daughter arranged the bedclothes and women entering gray
lounge set the table near the hearth, and little time we sat down
to eat.

Eating and talking, I had to say, because I asked my talkative diners, what things were eaten
by the wealthy, and at what times, in "into the world again." All were astonished those women
very simple, and I perceived this, and I liked to speed up the note, and so I to ponder the
exquisite taste of frog legs and swallow nests, including distinguished and elegant junk food
that I quoted. And it was to see the face then Mari Pepa put and gestures of disgust Lituca was
looking at his mother and back at me to me, as if he doubted the truth of what I meant.

- Pure vice daughter, pure pleasure - said after Mari-Pepa -; pure pleasure of it jartura those
living Genton, of what God created.

As it was so bonded with each other, pulling out the way of eating lifestyle and mode of travel.
New fans and new amazement. Thesis also extremely well here, and even suspect that I lied
a little, but within the plausible and pardonable. Lo bed near dawn and rise after midday
to stay at home until the evening, I marveled as much as swallow nest soup and fried legs frog.

- Mary my Mother! - Lita cried upon hearing it - because if these people never see ever the sun,
so what is he can see the happy and fattening? I think that's living against the law.

- Vice, daughter, vice - insisted Mari Pepa -; habit of not knowing what jacerse in a life so
spoiled.

Lita asked me if I also had 'over there' these bad habits, I replied that yes, and I said,
all comments, with a truly naive and infantile simplicity:

- Well,
be good rascal you ... Right, mom?

I celebrated the saying with a laugh no less naive, then giving thanks for the compliment, about
the same time responding to the question Mari Pepa:

- Who knows, daughter of soul, who knows?

Jaz who eat "nial" swallow unruptured of "doubt", you can jacerse to live that way without offending
God or break your health.

With the exception of his mother Lita was very red, and he wanted
me he could amend like his impertinence, and I, without leaving conclusion,
paved the way for your wishes offering it to boot a statement, not
devoid of sincerity, of my great disappointments.

- It would happen
about now - I objected Mari Pepa - when one was married, to live as
God intended.

What the heck want to know and possible when they are lonely monsoon family open house? ...
Well, look, Don Marcelo, said that for these houses, close-knit they
are, whenever the devil has a key.

- You can have it - I said I was
very formal - but in mine never entered.

- Jorrios, trapacerón of
satanincas!

Released after the laughter, and dropped it while Lita.

I help them with another, by the grace I did both, and then began the "mince" and shootings that could
not miss there, among the three.

Because these riddles are innate in women of all castes and latitudes; and put them all in the
same situation, all except the differences of place and style come to dig in the grounds and
with its own aims.

Always initiatives and force of daring, the cunning and tenacity, the mother, the subject studied,
the ill-concealed curiosity, eloquent silence, looking sideways, the punctured subtle, daughter.
So the two came to take for granted that I would have had no less than fifty brides nor would
drop the remaining three in Madrid crying my absences and maybe my
ingratitude.

But if the background scene was not new to me, éranlo, to fascinate,
those quaint nuances of language, this dialectic haphazardly, without
scaffolding or rhetorical devices conventional sanotas those sprouting
from mischief palabreo joyful, spontaneous fresh, airy and transcending
to 'land' as the roses in the garden between the virginal and splendid
litter fence that protects them.

So I felt in my soul that had just this highly original "discreteo."

And Mari Pepa finally go to my uncle who was coughing and complained, Lituca while at the same time
he heard the moans and coughs, I ordered shut by putting Dedina cute one on the mouth and Facia
came to pick up the crumbs and tablecloths the table.

XXIV

Soon passed my uncle, and spent two hours with no other noteworthy event in the big house and
beyond that a wet gale gusts that "blackened" a bit of snow, thing we filled all of complacency,
women less gray, as the signal phenomenon desnieve upcoming. Near dusk, when Mari Pepa and her daughter
picked up the respective Work and shook the rags clinging to clothing, and admonished the 'clouds'
and shawls, saying the way to my uncle many jokes and cheer, and dripping carcasses Snow Roof "melted"
by the rain that was thickening, the doctor came again. Examined the sick, and nothing particularly
alarming or found in it to make fear a night like the past, but did not dare to prometérnosla
calmer, because everything could be in a bad breed disease in a painful and helpless as crushed
as my uncle. This me said apart after me, before Facia and Mari Pepa, the campaign plan to the next
day, subject to return it at the last minute, so that might occur. The Lita's mother insisted
on staying to watch much, but I did not consent, because neither the patient has consented or would
have sat well be the mere suspicion of it, with suspicious and apprehensive
that put darkness as were invading the bedroom.

It was agreed that Facia ensure that no Chisco and lie down to sleep
I like hares, and It marched with Lita and her mother Neluco, waving
them "tomorrow" and "to then ', they fell in the dark and cold those
dilapidated areas of the house he grew up silence and darkness, and
spent a long time, while women decorate the candlestick gray, though
I saw nothing around me that the dying embers dying from the ashes
brazier, or heard other rumors that the laborious work of breathing
of my uncle the bottom of the chamber, and the rhythmic and monotonous
flow of the water-logged channels goterial.

When there was light in the room, I approached the bedside and spoke to desentristecerle a bit
and encourage him. Lost work. I intend very grateful, but he just knew all how bad it was and
how impossible it was out of this quagmire without a miracle God. I supposed overwhelmed by
the weight of my subjection to her assistance, and was determined to reassure with the promise
that it would not be long my captivity, I apologized for the bad times I was in the meantime, and
I conjured up again when I got my freedom, not take forgotten what I had prayed so, because the
less was he in that town, if there were those who the house occupied the position was left
empty with his death. I seem heavy and the subject; but this is what we demonstrate the importance
he gave ... All this, said between moans and panting pauses, his voice dull and deathly exhausted
the light of the oil lamp placed on the bureau, which only served to extreme cadaverous pallor
of the patient, including odors ether and rosemary, while the channels were flowing and grumbling
the gale outside, was very sad indeed. On the play of chance are often produced very curious contrasts
jokes that seem very heavy destination. On the dresser and under the burner ignition the candlestick,
had a stack of letters and newspapers that I had put there the night before to be entertained
with reading my long hours of sailing after that, after the asthma attack could sleep my uncle.
For most of those letters and those papers paper, were packed with news, reviews and trials planned
dances, receptions sumptuous new comedies in the halls and theaters in Madrid, as if everything
had been written for me out about it in such a timely opportunity.

The relapse of my uncle, the drop in temperature, with subsequent clearing of paths and roads, and
salsilla of "what happened yesterday" the cocinona took a big hit
that night of commentators.

TARUMBA attended to, which rarely went there, far more restless and frustration with the illness
of Don Celso and the stupidity of pepazo, that having been widened more of the same, with the
weight and the distillation of snow, which had its anchovy jastial home in the West. Pete also
attended Salces, who remained as pulseless when Tona, face awash with smiles and eyes of sweetness, he
praised the achievement of Eve and told him without qualms that "from this one and those ready
liked it men. " Puches, how to put away the mozallón with praise! If you do not restrain with
a compelling reflection and toss brunt of his lastic, make another atrocity there less laudable
that the mountain. I had never thought of it (I swore so intertwined fingers their hands, those
who were crossing) a thing "as jacedera and currienti" could assert many flows. With the tough
one who until then had been Tona! Geez, what kind yours! Thinking that is the envy Chisco I remembered
the discovery made by me Toper house in the heart of Tanasi and Fuila with the story of Robacio
the monsoon in a besides I had with him. I replied that I had taken a job well idle, although I
thanked him very much.

- Things - ended in the judgmental tone that was peculiar to him - pa shoot well, they jancia roll
with himself unu.

The man was the calmness and equanimity in the flesh, and the same pulse Bear in front of him
in his cave, which the warmth of the bride.

On behalf of my uncle, I often walked in the kitchen rather than do the honors the gathering,
to prevent him pundits will invade the bedroom. He loved; but could not bear on the plight
of body and spirit in which was. Thus, even without the doctor's strict prohibition would
not have wanted to receive any of them during the day. When they were saying goodbye to everyone,
would be different.

Late Don Sabas and Neluco arrived: the first determined to stay there, without being notice the
sick, please you have asked me if he had not anticipated offer me; the second to find out the
state of affairs before retiring. As such Things did not offer new or alarming aspect, said
goodbye to my uncle, and those with him we stayed at the house, and went with the last commentators,
one of whom was Pete, encountered with people, benches, doors and partitions, pure and foolish
that aceleradote had given him the praise and cuddles of Tona.

He spent the night better than we all expected, and the next day dawned without a cloud in
heaven or a puff of air on earth, and when the sun peaks transposed the East and greeted the
valley with its rays sparkled on the snow that had not broken the rain, my poor uncle sent them
to open wide the paneled his bedroom, as was not allowed to do the
same with the doors and windows to let in light and the air in the
abundance that he needed to stay afloat in this sea of ??troubles
"that ajogaba him "because of the drawn mediquillo seemed determined
to kill him.

And indeed was that if the body is not noticed anything more miracles of the panacea that so
eagerly asked the sick, was very large in spirit.

It was "another man" from the sun had crept into his bedroom and through the bars of a prison, and
saw floating, dancing within the luminous band across the room in
front of his bed from the paneled window, the fluff and dust homeless.

Not even the purpose of pointing up, because they would not let the exhaustion of its forces,
but believed in the possibility of returning in the sun before they die, even sacándole in a
basket to the laundry if it lasted visage that while a few days.

And it lasted more than seven, and tuned in such terms and fixed the
aging and confused my uncle's machine so that, not in a basket, but
rather sitting on the couch in cow your bedroom, well wrapped and
wrapped in blankets and coats, got be more than four "Bellyful of
sun" outdoors in the warm corner of the laundry, where I pulled him
little unless in the air, the door of her bedroom, between the storms
of vows and oaths with protesting against "the bitch acabación" that
made him so miserable ends.

He had many visitors at that time, and the family of Don Pedro Nolasco they are made for tomorrow
and evening. In it was the vejancón of Castañalera, fewer useful of speech and conversation
issues, used to break the long hiatus of silence downloads like this and two truncheons on the
ground:

- Go, go with the good Don Celso that we want to die without more ado! No, no, because like mine
is worth, do not you come out with it. I swear that I am.

Lituca, if present, came to remove the impertinence with a joke rather forced that I alluded to
me that for the pious and the luck to finish off peacefully my uncle.