 

Beatriz made a funny face that meant nothing.

- And then - said the countess - if you saw how good and how simple
and how sir!

Beatriz said nothing either to corroborate these praises.

Here came the Count, and San Teódulo was presented on Beatrice and her sister and Don Braulio.

It was the Count of recent school and last breeding, which boasts of spending little regard
with women, or if it was, could distinguish occasions and people, and knowing he would not win
with bold and sharply folded down on its prey, was to cut and shy
in the first moments.

He merely said some polite words to each of the two sisters, without too close to them, and
above all, without incurring the insolent vulgarity, in which now incur often men, reaching out to
the ladies just know them forcing them to slights or all of a sudden come to amicable terms of confidence.

Then
looked the most natural way to start a conversation with Don Braulio,
and as if a man so formal and weight as him, he entertained over half
an hour on important matters.

She further. Did something that seemed impossible, given what he was talkative, learned to shut
up, listen with attention and don Braulio compel him to speak, of which Don Braulio left happy.

Finally,
with general conversation, the Count dropped the reins to his good
humor, skewered thousand humorous blunders, always within the limits
not just of decency, but the more delicate manners, and enjoyed and
rejoiced at the meeting, be making nice to everyone.

Thus prepared the minds, when they had just struck eleven, and abandon the proposed Condesa
Gardens and all go home to tea. Don Braulio, although it had laughed at the thanks Earl and was
glad that he had heard discreet, scales both gift and was not a little startled to see how it
was getting into the big trot world, but could not resist. The Countess was going to take up her
house in his car. Then, from the house of the Countess to the Don
Braulio had a few steps to go.

Raided and the difficulties it would have been rude not to accept the invitation.

Don Braulio thus accepted in the company of his wife and Ines, the
four in the same Landau open that night was an intimate gathering
to the daily running of the Countess of San Teódulo.

X

In general, no gathering or meeting for fun where no dancing or to play cards. Without sitting for the
elderly and no polkas and waltzes for the young, all usually bored.

Is admirable, therefore, a gathering, like our Condesa, where only had fun chatting with people.
The woman who manages to have a chat and can boast have put a pike in Flanders. Know how many
of these businesses will be recognized worldly in women who preside over such gatherings uncommon
gifts of understanding.

Other singular virtues shone also in Rosita. It was so good as a bad friend for the enemy. Her
husband wanted, cared for him and petted him as the most faithful and consort lover. This had
not prevented it had estimated later and want it any other way and other shades and hues of
honey.

Women usually do not understand that there is only one baby, giving full someone or distributed
in this way or the other. Rosita was not. Rosita felt understood and various affections, not
destroying each other and are harmonized nicely. The Count of San Teodulo loved him in a way,
his poet wanted another, and these feelings, own and exclusive of
women arose others that seemed to start the fund essential spirit
where there is no difference of woman and man of principle neutral,
before you purchase determination sexual.

I mean that Rosita loved many of his commentators to a friend similar to what a man can feel for
another man, with a sweetness most ineffable her as a woman, and even pretty woman, manages
to put into this friendship, completely oblivious all feel love.

The first of these friends was the Comte de Rosita Alhedín. Between Rosita and the Count had
not secrets. Everything is trusted.

The Earl looked at her friend consolation for their troubles and tips for your difficulties.
Rosita Condesito admired talent: we laughed all jokes, was that no one was more discreet than he,
nor her poet and her husband were worth Pitoche next to Conde, and he had made any sacrifice
Rosita. Never, however, and the Count had thought of love to Rosita and love it in the count.

So
poetic relations based on mutual esteem, to Rosita was Alhedín Count
as an oracle, especially when it came to science that we dare to call
Aesthetics social, that is, to qualify people, and actions and things,
stylish, of distinguished and beautiful.

A sentence of Count Alhedín on ugly or pretty, on good tone and bad tone on distinction or lack
of distinction, was appealed to Rosita.

This will include their sudden enthusiasm for his old friends there. Count it had described as
two portents, and Rosita had taken for granted that they were.

Wishing then show them off at their gathering, happy to see the enthusiasm of so competent judge
The Count fell on his nearly countrywomen, and hoping that the Count of known and tried, sought
and found, as we have seen Beatrice and Agnes.

The Count himself, as he saw them, had come to tell who came through which was easily tired Rosita
recognize.

Moreover, neither in this plan was sinful, or Machiavellian purpose or any concert between the
Count of Alhedín and confidant. Nothing had been hatched against the virtue and Beatrice or against
the innocence of Agnes, nor against the rest of Don Braulio honored.

Rosita looked with joy and pride to their semi-countrywomen, confident in the praise of the Count. When
finding them, or because they were well-disposed, either because they deserved it all, he
seemed better, each in his style, which he had said the Count. And Rosita was not envious, when
there was no jealousy or emulation by, wished well to all her friends and was honest about Beatriz had
spoken.

I went through your mind that your home could Inesita find a good boyfriend, felt at home may come
out of its dark Don Braulio, and as he has judged bird came to fingírsele
in a short time or Director General or Minister, making a thousand
businesses use to the country, and especially her husband, and did
not seem not unlikely that at home and the Count of Beatrice finds
himself falling hopelessly Alhedín from each other, but this could
not manage to see Rosita, as happens, and it occurred with due caution,
nothing tragic, or even unpleasant to Don Braulio who, as she had
said, it was really nice, and who was already very high concept.

With such ideas about their new, or rather, restarted friends, the Countess of San Teódulo burst
into kindness.

Beatrice was in the party happy and charming. Pleased to be served and pampered for all, rejected the
shortness and took the land, as if he were already in those who attend
classrooms.

Everyone, even the most difficult, admired his ingenuity to match its beauty, and celebrated
the natural simplicity of his manner, his is not learned but innate elegance and their spontaneous
Andalusian charm. Although the intoxication of success Beatriz tended to talk too much, I knew
restraint and to not be tempered by brash and talkative. Through their thoughtful prudence was
therefore unbeatable.

Ines, for style, was also very good. His Olympic serenity, its calm divine, not abandoned for
a moment.

In luxury and splendor of this house, previously unknown for her, she felt, as his sister, who rose to
head something like vapors of champagne, and without the rustic jungle indifference, and without
the affected contempt of vain and proud, not wondered about anything, showing that he understood
and believed it all, but was not foreign to your condition. In short: Ines was in the party
as it might have been a real princess, for whom all these festivities were a proper element,
or rather, were below the item that she was breathing and that his soul alive.

The serenity of Agnes might have passed for pride if it were not softened
by a gentle angelic perhaps been confused with apathy foolish, if
in the light of her eyes, clear and profound at the same time, intelligence
will not fire.

Who fixed his gaze on that of she believed to penetrate through magical crystals within an enchanted
palace filled mystery, or imagined sinking to the bottom of clear
lake, beautiful village and vague creations, whose divine contours
could not quite understand intently, because the most Sigh slight
aura of pure curling waves, and these, without loss in clarity or
purity every image faded and vanished.

As for Don Braulio, must be confessed he was quite cramped and out of place in such gatherings.

We
know that it was very escamón, as they say on their land.

So while disguised with ability, was with the beard on his shoulder and fingers seemed guests.
He was smart, but boasted ladino, and came to be about malicious. He was therefore one of the
party very different concept of Dona Beatriz had formed.

Although Don Braulio had lived mostly in places and small towns of the province, and but in
Seville, during the first years of their marriage, had been retiradísimo without never deal with
what they call the great world, he conceived and understood him more
beautiful than now presented itself.

He hesitated, therefore, that the great world was pure, but Fake I imitate him, as is imitation
gold ormolu. And in this way was beyond what is reasonable and made judgments adventurous,
understanding all the grotesque and Trabuco things.

Los Condes de San Teódulo seemed a if Counts not stick, and while the gathering was subject
of true worth and class, the concept was a bit cloudy that Don Braulio
masters of the house had to project a certain dark shadow on the house
that attended.

In almost no one thought right. Strange human condition! One only won of course confidence,
one just seemed elegant, distinguished, noble completely discreet, distinguished, elegant, sweet
and fair: The Count of Alhedín.

Seeing often whispering Rosita and be home more carefree than the others, Don Braulio, going
from ready on this occasion, made a settlement there in his mind,
and decided the Earl of Alhedín represented in that house on paper
than in reality represented the poet Arthur.

Back inside the Don Braulio Conde graciously spared this loss, and considering their excellent
qualities, and without fear of anything on this side, almost intimate with him.

Instead, the poet, who was very nosy, which of course treated with the utmost confidence the two
sisters, who approached a lot to talk to them, and by bad manners
as being somewhat short-sighted, and began to Beatrice in verse and
prose infinite compliments, Don Braulio took grudge and looked like
a Don Juan Tenorio needy and third or fourth class.

Anyway, Don Braulio not loved the gathering, but Don Braulio had a pattern for his conduct, which
had decided not to depart.

As it is society, which would be the ideal he had of the great world, the fact was that the
house of the Counts of San Teódulo was a respectable house, where
any other in place, would have been thrilled to be admitted.

I could think Don Braulio it wanted to Rosita and her husband could denigrate, in the depths of his
severe awareness, gathering with their commentators, but to the world, under the conditions
of this life we ??live, could not resist, bypassing ferret, by jealous and tyrant his wife to continue
going to that gathering.

Don Braulio would not also include his wife with sermons or severely, or mandates. She wanted
only love for love. His plan was laid out.

Could not and should oppose Beatriz treated Rosita and to strengthen bonds of friendship with her.
Conveníale finally give notice to his wife about the moral value of Rosita, to not deceive, but
hide then his anger if his wife was treating. And this was Don Braulio.

Some might think that Don Braulio did wrong and I was weak in character. Here we do not give
as paragon of strength. I paint as it is.

We will say, however, as fertilizer, which are very rare Cato. All are reported behavior the
servants they will receive at home, and one of those people they
are dealing with and intimate with his wife and daughters, provided
that such persons to save face and not frowned upon in the world.

In short, and with tolerance, and with the blessing of Don Braulio,
and Ines Beatriz, since that night on, kept going frequently to socialize
Countess San Teodulo and being his most precious and attractive ornaments.

Rosita

also sometimes carried them in his company, and the theater, and to the Gardens, and the walk, and
eat at home.

Don Braulio, as his duties or his humor, was or was not with his wife and sister to these entertainment
and parties, to which Rosie was always careful to invite him.

XI

It was months since the night he first had appeared in the gathering of the Countess Don Braulio,
his wife and sister.

All the wise reflections of Don Braulio his wife had been in vain.

Beatriz liked to shine in society, and to this consideration was
of little importance to the advice of its husband.

Seemed to him perhaps exaggerated musings of a man and elder.

Do not know her that deep down Don Braulio had some reason to argue
that the gathering of San Teódulo was not the truly great world, it
was the legitimate good tone, but could bring her husband this great
world?

Certainly not.

Was, then, abandon it to go anywhere; had follow enclosed within
four walls in the prime of his youth, and to condemn Inesita same
punishment because it was a perfect society, in every way, where to
apply?

In various discussions that took Beatrice and her husband about this business, always made silence
and emerged victorious.

His arguments were, indeed, difficult to refute. For all had an answer.

- The Countess of San Teódulo has a bad reputation - said Don Braulio.

- It is a calumny - answered Beatrice.

- What if what is said against it is founded?

- So ... What will you do? A well that is not contagious.

- I concede that not give the spread when there is no predisposition to do so, but unless you
grant me that transcends the bad reputation, that the gossip is not only fattening who deserves
it, but people around who deserve it, even if they are not complicit
own.

- That may be true, but, by dint of wanting to prove much, proves
nothing.

If every woman virtuous, with only dealt with one that is not exposed to confuse and equate
their behavior with her friend, it is best not dealt with anyone,
living as in the tomb.

What? Am I going to ask for a certificate under the women you speak? You say that the San Teodulo
big world is not true. Will there be more virtue in women's real big world? Do not speak of them as
we talk about my friend? Well, if you go down, if you intend I deal with women's clerk, the janitor
or the clerk, where do you infer I you find in them all the severity
of Lucretia?

Are you perhaps related virtue in the humble people? Honesty Is the exclusive privilege of
needy females? Kid yourself, Braulio; what you want is to live here so alone and in Seville, facts
about ferrets, without dealing with a soul.

As for me I resign ... to give you taste, but well know it is very hard ... I'm still young ...
You, busy in your Registry and your studies, just follow me. Do I have to live in eternal soliloquy?
And then, poor Inesita ... not has, like me, a husband who ay who love to please, why should
it be victim of that whim of yours?

Such arguments wielded invincible power in the soul of Don Braulio. Nothing was that answer them,
and was silent.

Beatriz, seeing him silent and nearly exhausted, gave him a loving look, she smiled sweetly
I was a baby, and Don Braulio had to undergo. Not only was then able to prohibit to go to the
gathering of the San Teódulo, but had no right to oppose any madness that occurred to his wife.

There,
in the interior of his soul, Don Braulio gave reason at all, not merely by the professed affection
for him, but for the making of his intellect and the condition and character their ideas.

"What right do I have - he said to himself - so that this beautiful woman, so discreet, so funny
so on purpose to be the charm and wonder of those who try to be buried alive in punishment for
loving me and took me for a husband?

What right do I have to impose also the same penalty on her pretty sister, younger still and
not least in order to look the world? So it's ridiculous that I please be virtuous society they
frequent. Where I find it? Society is not virtuous or vicious. What are the people who compose it.
And the vice is more common virtue. "

Sometimes thought Don Braulio:

"If I banned my wife that was to accompany the Rosita, everyone who knew or presumed to be make
fun of me ... and with good reason. I would distrust samples not I honor and honor to my life partner.
Would believe that the suspected light or easily. My wife would exert against a tyrannical act, which
would also have something libelous. She would then have reason to stop loving me ... to hate
... maybe to despise. "

The mere assumption that his wife came to not love him, hate him or despise him ... waving nerves
unhappy. He was agitated, as if the sky were to fall out over, and only calmed down, just passing
tempest of his soul, when tears came to his eyes and vented with them the feeling of the heart.

Ines
Beatriz and were therefore in complete freedom to go to Rosita everywhere, and not failed to
seize it. Don Braulio became complicit in this, accompanied not infrequently. Then I used to feel
the most opposite emotions. Some were nice, some very unpleasant but all cleverly concealed by
him.

The Don Braulio unpleasant emotions born of distrust of himself, tormented him. Recognized tired,
melancholy, old, slightly pleasant, shabby, inelegant, and each see step understanding men whose
clothes, whose moral worth, whose soul, in short, we seemed far inferior
to what in his own being noticed and appreciated, but they were at
the same time, so superior to him in all that noticeable and more
easily estimated, for example, distinction and ease of manner, youth,
physical beauty, health and vigor, amenity and joy in treatment, lightness
and grace in conversation, he looked like inexplicable prodigy his
wife did not liked, rather than him, of any of these men.

Corroborated in his mind persuasion so sad thinking skills that he seen in men, and which was
deemed inadequate. The waltz was his despair. It a man admired waltz well, it seemed beautiful,
lovely waltz, and said to yourself, "What will my wife from me, not waltz?" More still admired by
young people hunt, pulling a gun and the foil, skating, riding on horseback, and are agile and
strong for all this.

Even those who deal or are graceful in calves caused her tricycle envy. Back in his conscience, yet
secret, declaring to himself our Don Braulio that being a woman,
he would be very close to falling in love with a handsome young man
who had such skills.

So he gave the unhappy the devil, and had made a pact with fixed him surrendering his soul,
if the overnight he had become clumsy in fast and of puny in robust, granting under skating, waltz,
ride, fence, fight, hunting and cycles.

Don Braulio just wanted to believe in spiritualism of women when they often prefer to the above
skills other manly virtues, but even so, what evidence there given
him these other virtues?

What battle was won? What poem was written? What speech was delivered in Parliament? How much
money was earned in the stock market in the game or business? What picture was painted? What
statue was carved? What brand system philosophy had created in his mind? What new machine or contrivance
had given the industry human?

Don Braulio is plunged in such meditations, and out of them so mean and base their own eyes,
which instilled shame. He was unnerved and prostrate.

He looked at his wife, which was really beautiful, elegant, discreet. Appeared to him worthy of
a throne worthy of going in magnificent carriages, stepping Alcatifa of Persia, lace dress silks
and delicious, to receive adoration of the wise and brave and rich, to award merit, skill,
poetry, science and daring with a sweet look of love. Y as Don Braulio had done nothing to earn
the award, almost persuaded that he was usurping, that was a miserable
possessor.

Doña Beatriz, meanwhile, was delighted to all men of the party of her friend. His joy was talkative,
his speech, delightful. Said a thousand jokes, subtle and shrewd, to be applauded and loved even
more for the accent in Seville with that said, the term its face, the brightness of his eyes and
the fresh red lips and white, the same and clenched teeth, including soft gushing, Argentina
and easy and spontaneous sympathetic word. She knew also instill love and respect. They who covet
her beauty the fenced reverent.

So the poet Arthur stopped too close and contented himself with bend the lens for a better
view.

In contemplating this pleasant emotions born of Don Braulio. So admired woman and coveted was
his. Which, perhaps, or safe and perhaps inspire many men love of worth, which at a glance,
with a slight favor, could have been filled with pride and happiness, just loved him, and he
just kept all the tenderness of his heart, and all the treasure of
beauty, as desired and commended.

Don Braulio, however, was one of
those creatures who all thrill hard grata little, who suddenly comes
the sad thought that poisons such emotion.

"But why - they said -
I'm the one she loves, the only happy, the owner of the treasure,
that holds the key to your heart? By chance, first, for having found
a place where no one had that competed with me. And then, of a contract
set by religion: by a moral, legal and religious, that drives him
to love me in an exclusive manner. If the latter, one or the other
was her husband, rather than be me, do not you want as I want? Who
knows? Perhaps you would like more. "

Then he remembered Don Braulio
and analyzed in his mind all touch, every word of love, any sign of
sympathy, and it struggled to find what can only come from love, away
duty which, coupled with kindness and compassion even, perhaps appropriate.
Almost always got this analysis that all evaporated in goodness, in
compliance with an obligation, desire not to grieve, in gratitude,
and nothing left to love in the bottom of the retort, where her wicked
criticism had made all of the samples convoluted love Dona Beatriz
had given him when they married