 

No answer. Fr Gil took the fan was on the bedside table and hurried get air. At the same time
screamed:

- Godmother! Godmother! Come!

Ms Eloisa and the maid rushed into the room. Tried in vain to revive the dying giving incorporate
air after opening the balcony, rubbing her feet with a brush doing everything that I suggested
at the time his imagination. It was the last attack of breathlessness.
Occasionally opened his mouth.

He moved his fingers shaking slightly. But its appearance is was quickly immobilized. The man
transmigrate to the statue, the soul is turned into stone.

He breathed three or four times the air and froze, motionless, eyes
and mouth parted.

Ms Eloisa embraced him sobbing and kissing his face covered corpse. The maid broke screaming
as if she was hitting. Gil's father dropped to his knees and began
to read quietly by his breviary.

After a while Ms Eloisa and the maid also knelt at the foot of the
bed and prayed.

But it, seeing a tear to hover between the lashes of his brother,
he rose quickly and caught it with his handkerchief.

Tear was shed that just died, tear Protest against power ominous
creature that has taken them from nothing without asking.

- Look,
father, how calm, how still breathes his sweet face! - Cried good
lady, watching her brother with eyes of pain and tenderness .-- It
is well known that has finally been reconciled with God!

The priest dropped the book on the bed and covered her face with her hands.

XII

Obdulia told his confessor that he was determined to leave the world and devote himself entirely
God in a convent. He could not give more pleasant news. Long ago that the preferences submission
and to the exaggerated idolatry that she was pleased devout restless Fr Gil. The latest extravagance
he had committed, and which he heard the secretary Bishop, put in a state of confusion and anger
that many days would not talk with it, let alone agreed to confess. The event had transpired and much
commented and laughed not a little too.

Of course he was mostly lost her, but reflecting also undermined the dignity of the priest. The girl
was embarrassed. Not presented in public or at home with their friends, and even tried to go
to church at times when no there were people. But I was even more distressed, with the attitude
of his confessor, who embarrassed. Perhaps because of this, and to win back his will, he went
to an evening news to the confessional the determination was made.

Do not hesitate to give their consent. So exalted devotion, a desire
to live as penance and sacrifice more of their degree would find the
walls of a convent in the middle of impurities of worldly life. In
fact, had always a little surprised that his penitent had no recollection
of the monastic life, as according to their inclinations. Then the
age reached, transposed and early youth, did not fear that their resolution
was the daughter of a fleeting desire, of a fleeting romantic exaltation,
as usually happens at girls of fifteen to twenty years