 

Maxi and her aunt were accommodated there in front, near a bench to sit at intervals rest. The girl,
imbued with a keen religious sentiment, not daring to look at Miguel; believed profane the majesty
of God's house. However, occasionally, in rare rare, authorized the raising of the eyes and
throw a quick and serious gaze, regretting I did immediately. In our youth that made him enjoy
more shy and very fast look that hot and prolonged than other women more beautiful and more attractive
had lying in the course of his life.

Although long-distance, observed this afternoon that Maxi's face was not the same other days,
the melancholy, always scattered about him, had become the deep sadness; their eyes were more frequent
and longer, and around his eyes slightly red circle clearly accused the tears spill. What happened?
he asked anxiously. Does be scolded his aunt? And wishes to conclude the ninth soon to know.

It
was dark when they left the church.

The young stranger used to wait Dona Rosalia and her niece on the porch, holy water and offer
to accompany them home in conjunction with other neighbors, which allowed him to catch up with
his girlfriend and holding her conversation apart. All this idyllic breathed a sense of gentle happiness,
which, in contrast their refined courtly love, was causing him great delight. After having
directed insignificant questions, to which the girl replied with a sweet and subdued voice,
little more subdued than usual, he asked bluntly:

- What is it? ... Looks like you're sad and you cried (the secret had been tuteaba few days:
she did not dare to do it occasionally, when the young man as strongly required.)

Maximina walked in silence.

- Do you have fought your aunt?

- No.

Was silent.

After a moment, his face getting closer, he observed that some large tears rolled down her cheeks.

-
Are you crying?

... Why? - Asked anxiously.

- Do not cry ... is not - "she lifted her eyes towards him smiling,
but cloudy with tears.

- You cry, yes, and I want to know why.

I think I have a right to it ... if I want, as you say.

It took some work still wrest their secret. At length she vented her breast and His voice cut through
the sobs:

- Today have been Paul and Second home and took me to the store before
coming Joaquina to the ninth ... and there began to make fun of me
... I said something so bad!

- What did they say?

- That V. was
laughing at me and just seemed to love me for some fun ... That how
I could figure out a rich and elegant young man had to marry me ...

-
"All that you have said? - Miguel said with irritation deaf .-- Nothing
else?

- They also told me V. I had a girlfriend ... a lady who lives
there in the way of France and that was V. to see every day ... It
seems that they came for me especially designed to this knife!

-
I do not have told you the truth.
