 He could afford this luxury. It would be like
a huge yacht, ready to do due to his taste or convenience, and providing the same time high
profits. Maybe your child to become a manager of shipping company, the over the years become
the first ship in a huge fleet.

He knew all the ports in the world, all roads of traffic, and would know to guess the locations
devoid of vessels, which are paid higher rates.

Until now had been a brave employee and blind. I was about to start his life operator of the sea.

Two
months later he wrote from England saying he had bought the Fingal, steam-mail Three thousand
tons, which made the twice weekly service between London and port
Scotland.

Ulysses enthused by the cheapness of its acquisition. The property was Fingal a Scottish captain,
who, notwithstanding his long illness, he would not ever give up
command died on board his ship.

The heirs, landsmen, tired from a long waiting, eager to get rid of it at any price.

When the new owner entered the aft lounge, surrounded by cabins - only habitable place in this
cargo ship - the memories of the deceased came to his step. In the plans for the entrepuertas were
painted the heroes of the Iliad Scotland: the bard Ossian and his harp; Malvina round of the
arms and loose tresses of gold, the mustachioed warriors, with helmets
fins and protruding biceps, which were given knives in their shields,
waking the echoes of green lakes.

A soft, deep armchair opened its arms to a stove. They had spent the last years, the owner of
the vessel, heart sick with swollen legs, running from seat on a course that was repeated every
week, through fog, through winter waves that ripped chunks of ice crept to the icebergs. Near the
stove there was a piano, and on its cover a pile of yellowed by time scores: The sleepwalker
Lucia Tosti romances, Neapolitan songs, easy and graceful melodies which spread the old strings
of the instrument with the fragile and crystalline timbre of a music box. The poor sailor
legs of stone tended his sick heart into the sea of ??light. This music raised up among the misty
skies Sorrento hills, covered with orange and lemon trees, the coast
of Sicily, scented by burning plant.

Ferragut manned the ship with friendly people. His second was a pilot
who had begun his career on fishing boats. It was the same people
of the grandparents of Ulysses, and he remembered the Dotor with respect
and admiration