 We very quickly. Is it all right for us to sit a while in the Progress
Square to talk peacefully? ".

No doubt The blind man said yes, because five minutes after they were seen sitting side by side
in the base of the fence surrounding the statue of Mendizabal. The face Almudena, an ugly expression,
dark citrine, with wispy beard, black as the raven's wing, was characterized mainly by the excessive
grandeur of the mouth, when he smiled, affected a curve whose ends, replicating the loose skin
of the cheek, got too close ears. The eyes were like sores and dry and insensitive, surrounded
by patches sanguine; medium size, crooked legs. His body had lost its graceful shape by the
habit of walking in the dark, and spend long hours sitting on the floor with legs Moorish folded.
Decency wore on, as his clothes, but old and full of dirt, did not tear or damage which were
not amended by a darned smart patches or applications and patches. She wore black boots, very
pink, but perfectly seams and patches defended habilis. The bowler hat revealed dilated services different
heads, to come to lend at that, that may not be the last, dents felt they were not such that would
prevent the defense skull material covering. The stick was hard and glossy, the hand that
was holding him, nervous, outside morenísimo color, throwing Ethiopic, white palm, his tone
and softness that resembled to a press raw hake, nails trimmed, the collar at least dirty it
is possible to imagine the miserable condition of the unhappy and wandering life of His son.

"For what we were going, Almudena - Benina Sena said, taking his handkerchief
to put it back, restless and nervous as a person who wants to ventilate
the head -.

I have a serious commitment and you, nothing but you, you can get me out of it.

- Dicermi it, you ...

- What did you think to do this afternoon?

- At home me, mocha that
JACER me: I wash clothes, sew mocha, mocha patch.

- You are the breading
man in the world.

I have not seen another like you.

Blind and poor, you fix yourself your clothes, thread a needle with her tongue sooner than
I with my fingers sew to perfection, are you tailor your shoe, your laundry ... And after
asking in the parish in the morning and evenings on the street, you have time to go for a while
coffee ... You of what there is, and if there were justice in the world and things were willing
to reason, should give you a prize ... Well, son, because what is this afternoon I leave work,
because you do me a service ... For chances are friends.

- What dirt you?

- A tremendous thing. I have not lived.

I'm so unhappy, if you do not throw me shelter me the Viaduct ...
That's right.

- Amri ... pulling no.

- Is there such a big commitment,
so great that it seems impossible that it may leave them.

I'll tell you at once to give you free: I need a hard ...

- A Durro! - Almudena said, expressing the sudden seriousness of the face and the energy of accent
the horror that was causing the magnitude of the quantity.

- Yes, son, yes ... hard, and I can not go home if not before it.

I must have that hard, runs you, then it must be removed from under
the rocks, looking for whatever it is.

- It mocha ... ...-- mocha
murmured the blind turning his face toward the ground.

- Not much
- watched the other, trying to deceive their grief with optimistic
ideas -.

Who does not is a hard? A hard, Almudena friend, you have any ... With what can you buscármelo
you, yes or no. "

Something said in his strange blind Benina language translated by the word "impossible", and throwing
a deep sigh, which Almudena answered with another no less deep and plaintive, remained a painful
time in meditation, staring at the floor and then to the sky and the statue of Mendizabal Mr dark
green bronze that she did not know who he was or why he had put there. With that look that is
vague and distracted in moments of intense bitterness, as a harrowing twist the soul itself, he saw
pass by a garden and another band of people hurried or lazy. Some had a hard, others were searching.
Collectors spent the Bank's Satchel shoulder; carts with beer and soda bottles, hearses, which
was conducted the cemetery one to whom nothing mattered and hard. Buyers came in stores coming out
with packages. Ragged beggars pestering the lords. With rapid vision Benina reviewed the boxes
of such shop, the different quarters of all households, into the pockets of every well-dressed
pedestrians, acquiring the certainty that none of those folds of missing a hard life. Then I thought
it would be a step too salty to submit it in the nearby home of Céspedes saying to do a favor
to give a hard, it should give even a loan. Surely, they would laugh at such absurd claim,
and would nicely on the street. And yet, it seemed natural and right wherever a tough represented
only a negligible amount, it should give it, for whom such sum was ... like a huge atom. And
if you pass the desired currency hand with many other possessed her, to theirs, would not be
noticed any change sensitive to the distribution of wealth, and all follow the same: the rich,
rich, poor her and others of their poor condition. Well, this being so, why not come to his
hands hard? What reason is there for twenty people they passed not deprived of a real, and
that these twenty actual racking not natural to go through his hands? Navigate things in this
messy world! Poor Benina was content with a drop of water and Withdrawal before the pond could
not have it. Let us all, heaven and earth, would I lose Retirement something the pond because
it is take out a drop of water?

V

This thought, when Almudena, returning from a meditation calculator,
you must be very sad face that went down, you said:

"Did not you
thing that comb?

- No, son, all committed and, until the ballots.

-
Do not be someone who Priester you?

- There is no one that I rely
now.

No I take a step without encountering a frown.

- Mr Carlos call you tomorrow.

- Tomorrow is too far, and I need the hard today, and soon, Almudena,
soon.

Every minute happens is a hand me the noose tightens I have in the
throat.

- Do not mourn, Amri.

You be good Migo, I arremediando you ... Vesl now.

- What are you?

Tell me soon.

- I combed clothes.

- Does the outfit you bought at the flea market?

How much do you give?

- Two and a half piesetas.

- I'll do it for out three. What else?

- Come home Migo - Almudena said, rising with decision.

- Quickly, son, no time to lose. It's too late. For there is little to walk from here to Santa
Casilda inn! ".

Hurriedly made their way down the street from Meson de Paredes, speaking
little.

Benin more suppressed by anxiety that the resiliency of the pass, threw light on his face, and
each Once he heard bells of clocks made a grimace of despair. Cold North Wind I drove down
the street, puffing his clothes like sails of a ship. One's hands and another was ice, and his
nose dripped red. Their voices hoarse, the words sounded with hollow cold and sad.

Not far from the point where Meson de Paredes leads to the Ronda de Toledo, found the hostel
Santa Casilda, a vast hive of affordable housing in runners superposed aligned. Enter it by a yard
or corral long and narrow, filled with piles of garbage, waste offal and waste of everything
human. The room we lived was the last of Almudena ground floor, at ground level and not had
to cross a single step to enter it. Housing made up the two pieces separated by a mat roof
slope: next the kitchen, another room, also a room or cabinet, with well-beaten dirt floor,
white walls, not as dirty as others of the same human or burrows mansion. Saddle was the only piece
of furniture, because the bed was a mattress and blankets brown,
leaning around a angle.

The stove was not without pots, pans, bottles, nor food.

In the center of the room, he saw a black figure Benina, something like a bundle of clothes,
or a bag abandoned. In the dim light that came after the door closed, she observed that the
lump was alive. By touch, rather than by sight, he realized he was a person.

"You be here Pedra drunk.

- Ah!

What stuff! It is this that helps pay for the room ... Drunkard, sinvergüenzonaza ... But
do not lose time, son, give me the suit, which I will take ... and with the help of God, I
will take even two eighty. Go get me thinking about what is missing. The Blessed Virgin to you
will, and I shall pray for you to give it folded, as I certainly do not want me any thing. "

Taking
Charge of the impatience of his friend, the blind man picked a nail the suit he called again for
a convention very common in business combinations and gave it to her friend, who in four Zanchetta
was placed on the patio and in the round, then pulling to the call Campillo de Manuela. The beggar,
meanwhile, uttering angry words, it is not easy to play narrator,
being in Arabic, felt the bulk of women intoxicated, which as a dead
body lying in the middle of the cubicle.

A angry expressions the blind, only answered with harsh growling, and turned away, sprawled and
stretching arms to fall back into deep slumber and more brutal inertia.

Almudena put his hand in between the black robes, the folds, scrambled with shawl, formed an
inextricable mess, and accompanying registration of furious exclamations, explored also the flaccid
bosom, as if you love skins with cloth. I was so nervous man I found what should be covered, and
hid what they like to see the light of day. There took rosaries, scapulars, a bundle of papers
wrapped in a hard piece of paper, horseshoe pieces gathered in the streets, teeth of animals
or people, and other trinkets. Following registration, entered the Benina, back and diligence,
which had sent so quickly, as if it had been brought on wings and
the angels of heaven.

The poor woman came sofocadísima the fast run through the streets, I could hardly breathe, and
Fire dismissed his sweaty face, her eyes joy.

"I have been three - he said, showing the coins - a quarter. I have not had much luck in Valeriano
be there, you get to be the mistress, Reimund, labor cost get two-plus.

"

Responding to the old happy, Almudena, with a face of joy and triumph,
showed him between his fingers a quarter.

'Is here in the Piech of this ... Tigo catch.

- Oh, what luck!

Did not have more? Looking good, son.

- I had more. My regolver Piech things. "

Benina shook the drunk's clothes waiting to see a coin jump. But it jumped more two forks, and
some bits of coal.

"I had more."

She rattled the blind, and by the explanations given of the nature and behavior the big woman, could
understand that if they had found this in a state of normal clearance,
peseta would have given the asking.

With a short sentence summed up his partner Almudena Hosting: "Being Bueno, be bad ... Take
it tudo, tudo give it. "

Continuous act lifted the mattress and digging into the ground, pulled out a dirty old suitcase,
who carefully hid in rags and cardboard, and put his fingers in her, like someone pulls out
a cigarette, took a papelejo, which unfolded was a penny of two realities, new and shiny. Benina
took it while he drew from his pocket Almudena, where he had many tools, scissors, needle spliff,
knife, etc.., another envelope with two shillings.

He said to them he had received from D. Carlos, and gave everything to the poor old woman, saying:
'Amri, and arriglar tigo.

- Yes, yes ... I put mine today, and the absence so little that I will not bother you anymore.
Thanks God! I can not believe. Oh, son, how good you are! You deserve to drop the lottery, and
if you do not like, it's because there is no justice on earth or in heaven ... Goodbye, son,
I can not stop another moment ... God bless you ... I'm on tenterhooks. I'm flying home ... Stay
in yours ... and this poor wretch, when you wake, do not hit, son, poor thing! Each one, for the
sake of not suffering, get drunk so you can: this with the aguardentazo, others with something
else. I also lame, but not well: mine are deeper thing ... I'll tell you, I'll tell you. "

And
shot out, the coins stuck in the heart, afraid that someone removed
from the Along the way, or that he flew away, dragged from their tumultuous
thoughts.

Al Left alone, Almudena went to the kitchen, where, among other junk, had a palanganita tin
and a jar of water. He washed his hands and eyes, then took a pot in which ashes and coals
were off, and going to a neighboring house, he returned a little while with fire, over which
poured a handful of some substance in an envelope of paper beside his bed. Fire rose very dense
smoke and a pungent odor. Was the incense of benzoin, the only remembrance of the native soil
material that allowed Almudena wandering in exile. The special aroma, characteristic of Moorish
house was his comfort, keenest pleasure, religious practice and home
together, then wrapped in smoke that things began to pray that no
Christian could understand.

With the smog, the snarling drunk again, and cleared his throat, and coughing, as if trying
to remember yes. The blind did not make him more attention than a dog, attentive only to their
prayers in that language know whether it was Arabic or Hebrew, covering one eye in each hand,
and lowering them later on mouth to kiss. Median time spent in meditation, and when finished,
was sitting before him with eyes slut lloricones elusive and, because
of the itching caused by the thick incense, looked at him.

Seriously presenting palms, Almudena I let these words:

"Great pick,
not having more than one God ... b'rracha, b'rrachona not be more
than one God ... a God, a God alone, alone.

"

He dropped another hearty laugh, and touching his chest, he wanted
to clean up the mess concerned that the hand of his roommate had caused
in that part interesting of person.

Clumsy sleep out alcoholic who could not quite put everything in its site or to cover the modesty
seeks and ever sought to be covered. "Jai, you I've arregistrao.

- Yes ... Not have more than one God, one God alone.

- And to me, what? For me who have already two or forty, all that they themselves want to have
... But tell me, sponger, I've removed the peseta. I do not care. Pa ti era.

- A God alone!

".

And seeing him take the stick, put women on guard, saying, "Hey, do not hit, Jai. Enough and
of incense, and get to make dinner. How much money do you have? What do you bring? ...

- B'rrachona! diniero failing ... Take the Embaixador, you sleep.

- What do you bring? - Murmured the black woman staggered and closing his eyes -. Aguárdate a little
bit. I have dream, Jai. "

He fell back into deep sleep, and Almudena, which had required the club with intentions using
it as an infallible remedy for drunkenness, took pity and sighed hard, muttering these or
similar words: "Paste you another day."

VI

Almost is not hyperbole to say that the Sena Benina, after leaving Santa Casilda, possessing
incomplete hard that calmed his mortal anguish, going in rounds, and street crossings as an
arrow.

With sixty years back, kept his agility and alertness, coupled with perseverance inexhaustible.
He had spent the best of life in an eager rush, which required much
activity as a prank, crazy efforts of the mind and muscles, and that
teaching was fortified in body and spirit, it formed the special temple
woman will know who read this timely story of his life.

With amazing alacrity entered in a drugstore in the Calle de Toledo, collected medicines had ordered
early in the morning, then did stop at the butcher shop and grocery store, carrying her shopping
distinct wrapping paper, and finally entered a house in Imperial Street, near the Rinconada that
is the True almotacén and Contrast. Glided along the narrow portal, blocked and almost impassable
by the flaps of a trade of rope that is in it, rose stairs, walk to the main rapids with moderate
step up to the second, came panting to the third, which was the last, with honors attic. Turned a
large patio Gallery of leaded glass, uneven ground due to uneven subsidence and the old factory,
and finally came to a paneled door, unpainted, called ... It was his house, the house of his
wife, which, in person, groping the walls, came the noise of the
bell, or rather hoarse jangling, and opened, not without the precaution
of asking for sight, square, defended by an iron cross.

"Thank God, woman ...-- told at the door -. Go a few hours! I thought
that I caught a car, or you had an accident.

"

Without saying a word to his wife continued Benina gabinetillo up
next, and both sat down.

Apologized Maid's explanations for his delay was to give them fear,
and began to defensive, waiting to see where it came from Dona Paca,
and what positions he took in his irascible genius.

Something reassuring tone of the first words with which it was received;
expected a sharp rebuke, words complacent.

But the lady seemed to be of good, trained, indeed, the harsh nature of the intensity of suffering.
Benina proposed, as always, accommodate is that you play the other, and soon to be with her,
changed the first phrases, he calmed down. "Ay, ma'am, what a day!

I was undone, but would not let me, I let out of that blessed home.

- I do not explain it - said the lady, whose Andalusian acentillo
persisted, although highly attenuated, after forty years of residence
in Madrid -.

I'm aware. On hearing the twelve, one, two, I said to myself: 'But, Lord, why take so long Nina?'.
Until I remembered ...

- Right.

- I thought ... as I have in my head all the calendar ... that today is San Romualdo, confessor and
Bishop of Pharsalia ...

- Cabal.

- And are the days of Mr. priest
in whose house you're an assistant.

- If I thought you had to guess,
would have been more quiet - said the maid, in his extraordinary ability
to build and expose lies, took advantage of the solid cable threw
her mistress -.

And it was not loose the job!

- You've had to take a long lunch.

That's what I reckon. And do not be short of swallows the San Sebastian curánganos, colleagues and
friends in your D. Romualdo!

- Everything you say is not enough.

- Tell me, what are you wearing? - Nervously asked the lady, who liked
to know what ate in the homes of others -.

I'm aware. I would mayonnaise.

- First rice, which was very close to me. Oh, Lord, how much praise! That if it was I first
cook the whole Europe ... that if shame is not sucking her fingers
...

- What next?

- A fricassee that they wanted for themselves and
the angels of heaven.

Then, squid in ink ... then ...

- For though I have you told me not to bring any leftovers home, they prefer misery God sent me to
suck the bones of other tables ... as you know, you've no doubt brought
something.

Where's your basket? ".

Seeing fuck, Benina hesitated a moment, but no woman was undaunted by any danger and mastery of
the trick suggested working soon remove: "Well, ma'am, I left the
basket bringing suit in Mademoiselle Obdulia, who needs it more than
us.

- You did well.

I praise the idea, Nina.

Tell me more.

And a good steak, not wearing?

- Go, go!

Two and a half kilos, ma'am. Sotero Rico gave me the higher.

- What desserts, drinks ...?

- Up Champagne of the Widow.

Priests are the devil, and nothing is private ... But let's go inside, it's too late, and will
be the lady fainted.

- I was, but ... I do not know: it seems that
I've eaten all that you've spoken ... Finally, give me lunch.

- What
have you taken?

Is it cooked little turned away last night?

- Daughter, I could not pass.

Here I am with half an ounce of raw chocolate.

- Come on, let's go. The worst thing is you have to light a fire. But soon release ... Ah! also I bring
medicines. That comes first.

- Did you do all that I commanded you? - Asked the lady, launched the two into the kitchen -. "Grasp
my two petticoats?

- Why not?

With two pesetas I took, and two others who gave me D. Romualdo for
his holy, I could attend to everything.

- Did you pay the oil yesterday?

-
Well, no!

- And the lime and bloody?

- All, everything ... And I
still have left over after the purchase, for tomorrow.

- God Will
you bring us a good day tomorrow? - Said with great sorrow the lady
sitting in the kitchen, while the maid, with nervous promptly gathered
chips and coals.

- Ay! Yes, sir, keep it at that.

- Why did I tell
you, Nina?

- Because I know.

Heart tells me. Tomorrow we have a good day, I say that a great day.

- When you see him tell you if you hit ... I do not trust your hunches.

You're always with you tomorrow, tomorrow ...

- God is good.

- Me no think so. No shots were tired of me: I beatings, will not let me breathe. After bad
day, is a worse.

Spend years waiting for the remedy, and no illusion that I was not
become disillusioned. I get tired of suffering, I also tired of waiting.
My hope is treacherous, and as always fool me, I do not want to expect
good things and bad I hope to come ... even regular.

- For me that
Mrs. - said Benina giving the bellows - have trust in God, and would
happy ... You see, I'm ... Did I not see? I always think that when
we least expect it We come the stroke of luck, and we so richly, remembering
the days of trouble, and retribution of them with the great life that
we're going to give.

- I do not aspire to the good life, Nina - said
almost crying Mrs. -: I aspire only to rest.

- Who do you think about
death? That does not: I feel very comfortable in this world fandanguero,
and until I have him for odd jobs law happened. Not die.

- Would
you settle for this life?

- I'm satisfied because it is not in my
power to give me another. Come all before death, and we suffer provided
they do not miss a piece of bread and can eat with two sauces a very
good: hunger and hope.

- And support, and of misery, shame, humiliation
so, due to worldwide not pay anyone to live a thousand tangles, traps
and tricks, not to find who you rely value two real keepers ourselves
persecuted and sellers?

- Go if you take it! ... Everyone in this
life, as can be defended