 

I talked to him a good while yet, because I entertained a lot of their conversation picturesque
and I finally asked about the doctor's house.

- Sail there - I said
turning around to the right hand and pointing to "Lord a building
more than the current rate in the village -.

Two is Zanchetta in it.

- And Don Pedro Nolasco? - Ask later.

- Sailing to the other manu
- he answered, pointing with his opposite -.

Above tejau of the first to tend orchards, güertu, looms the Aleru
vencíu and detraseru jastialón of eya, with its balconies with fierru.

In this coming toward us from the top of the site, whose homes, like
those of all mountain areas, have no rhyme or reason to each other,
a girl of good picture, with a highly polished copper cauldron on
his head, and a clay pitcher in each hand.

The TARUMBA, after meeting her, he winked at me, turned back and told me while carrying on
snuff his pipe

- That's Tanasi.

- Who is Tanasi? - I asked myself.

- The eldest daughter of Toperu
- he answered.

- Who is the Toperu? - He inquired.

- Pos is the
father of Tanasi ... Come the monsoon Chiscu courting.

- Aha - I
cried watching her carefully, because time was passing in front us.

The monsoon, which had assumed something of what we were discussing
the TARUMBA and I became very red and smiled, lowering her eyes to
give us good morning.

Heart praised the good taste Chisco, and I explained well the molehill.

-
Well, what the hell you want for your daughter? - Asked TARUMBA.

-
One such Pepazus - I said it -.

A mozallón as a cajigu, which removes two hazas of a cave, eats cuatru Cavone, and unless the
pump unless it tenemus moriu ahead.

You say you have the Toperu this hobby, not because I am able to juralu that as Nah, you, sir
Don Marcelu, can ponder me and what I will or that come in these canteens?

Putting up at the doctor's house, who wished to pay his visit that
day, despedíme the TARUMBA, but it, cutting by half the dismissal,
she said she "gypsy he was also because both houses were full, and
his doctor, just opposite, and cast to walk beside me.
