 My father never talks about it;
Mom, with care, it is enough; to Leocadia likes going to church when there are large parties,
the absence of other more fun but more expensive than you are banned, and as to me ... Callus:
I do not want you to call me herejote. Anyway, I'm not alone.

Just for today: you can not complain that I write little.

It is with care, because tomorrow, if I can, go see your father if
you have something to send.

Yours always,

PEPE.

"

The letter, in answer to it, found the next day Pateta under unsafe
tiles oven stove, said:

"My Dear Pepe:

By God, I ask you not torment
me so.

I've told you a thousand times. I love you because yes, because I think you're the best man,
and do not ask me more. Do not you usually say My father raised me like other women? Well, that
is. If you had a great fortune, would perhaps easier for us to be each other, but I would like now
could not give even a lint more than affection. So do not give me grief or tontunas, not ever
say to leave you, or that if I leave I will endure. If you think it is because I want. Am I
rich? All the better. Come out and poor, and if not, I want to I have become, provided that
you do not look at any other woman. Do you understand? That's all I do not forgive ever. We agreed
that you will never go again nor do I write nonsense: not deserve another Name the things you say.
My father will not let me marry you, but do you marry another? That if you do not! What is this
answer you Peace. Come on, I do not understand these sublime sacrifices from you and nonsense.
I have not thought, or think, or think you down for ever in nothing in this world. Do you know?
I have read so many books of which has my father, me Don Quijote agreement says that all the
knights wore on his shield a sign. Well, you and I are two men walking with this sign: love
and patience. Like it? Well, shut up and not waste time on wishes sad. Ensure that people
who hopes to despair: no matter. I am content with who I love very much. I think this has nothing
to do with social conventions, with the humility of your house or your bitterness. If you loved
me as I to you, would not require more. Do you think I will get nun or forcibly married to a
prince of a fairy tale? Am I stupid? You'll see, you'll see, when you know my father as I know
you!

Concerning the coming of your brother, I can tell you anything, but
I figure that you see everything black.

Until you know what your situation, there is no need to hurry. If you come to expect, you should
dare to ask Dad to recommend him to anyone. Would you be angry if I tell you that your fears I look
stupid? Is it to be bad because it is cured? Undoubtedly, this is what you have been occurred.
In truth, the thing is rare, be so big brothers and do not know, but see how that's why you
have no trouble. And if you suffer, I love you a little more for miss anything.

Goodbye, sad me.

Do not ever forget your

PEACE.

"

XI

Tirso Following an ecclesiastical career, was one of those serious things in human life are
resolved quickly and with little intervention concerned.

One Don Tadeo, a friend of his father, who pay a debt of gratitude is first made by of education,
then the future of the boy, was honest and good, but fan reviews political and religious beliefs.
Their excess of faith and realism was honest, and undisputed its influence and prestige among
the supporters of the legitimacy and people from church inhabiting the region. For long periods,
in which he ordered the moderate party, retained Don Tadeo its fate in the Treasury of the
province and was one of many protected Carlist by the Poles, who considered less dangerous to
attract supporters of the Pretender compromise with liberals. Past few years, and governing
a liberal ministry, its peers and subordinates prepared the terrible snare whose disastrous denouement
did head Jose statements. The case made against him or cause gave no result that dismissal, but this
fact, which went unnoticed by the rest of the nation, was important local event. Thereafter,
Don Tadeo was to his enemies become a poor man, and in the eyes of his supporters as a martyr:
he, imagining make good his downfall, he devoted himself entirely to be an instrument of ideas ever
had inclination. The clergy of the capital of the province, which initially was considered
as a victim, then by his strength, he had the strong man, and seeing it as a character willing
to fight with greater freedom than the church, tacitly and insensibly awarded leadership.
He became what we now call a bishop of the Levite, the pair local chief a game. A home were
constantly the canons of the cathedral, the missionaries that often made trips to the city, journalists
and even the Catholic prelate the diocese. According to these people, Don Tadeo charge of education
and future of Tirso was a meritorious act, thought he paid his debt of gratitude to the best
of ever did anyone, especially a child that starting from the jaws
of a parent progresistón and perhaps heretical, it seemed a wonderful
thing.

For his part, Mr. Thaddeus did not attempt to say Jose was a pity he had liberalescas trends.

Tirso
raised a housewife in a village, and could do a goat, a sexton, protected by Don Tadeo, taught
from small to read, write, count and pray, after eight years knew how to help mass, and at
fourteen and her godfather could be used to write letters and run errands of those who do not
trust to servants. In contrast to their parents wrote very little, and when I did, down at the
instigation of Don Tadeo that of its own accord. The friends of the former, seeing educated in
the fear of God, he was treated with special affection and, in return, Tirso became all respect
for those gentlemen, that he was included magnates. Priests, especially, he deserved special consideration.
The talking and trying to close for a few hours before had been officiating in the temple with
rich costumes and taking the people prostrated themselves around, was in his eyes it would
have been for boys increased between soldiers mingle with superiors. Unable to realize the greatness
of the ideas represented by those men, he seduced the position they occupied in the city. Under
a canopy walk, talk from the pulpit and give a hand to kiss, seemed more signs of prestige to ride
music front, sword in hand and battalions behind, so when he told his godfather to study for
the priesthood, his childish imagination received the news with such emotion to joy. What other
career had to give a man dedicated to serve as guide means, through an agent to the interests
and biases of the clergy? A canon was the one who decided to fate of the boy, answering and
Don Tadeo, who consulted on the matter: - "No You could think of nothing better. If the boy is
the chosen and get a luminary of the Church What glory for you! If not ... it will have a career
as good as any. And so it is up to his parents - he added - understand that complain if the guy
you should mark another path, but who can take the wrong purpose so noble? "- Shortly after entering
Tirso in the seminary, where, incidentally, under the influence of those who took him did not
suffer hazing endured by others.

Then they began to pay off the separation from family and lack of Tirso parents who spent the
first years of his life. The voice sounded powerful and compelling self-interest, Don Tadeo saying that
man could do, that your family, however, had no means for it. He had talked so much the fear
of God and so little of his own mother, who praised the idea of ??being a minister of the
Lord.

The first effect of religious education was to make him understand that his future would correspond
harbored the hope that seeing and envying those who frequented the house of his protector.
The lessons from teachers and books that put him in his hands, he
said the mission of the priest was superior to anything I could imagine
their ambitions.

The most famous of the prophets, the precursor San Juan, had the joy of putting your hands after
on the head of Christ: he, as a priest, he would every day in his, and he consecrate his words.
The angels are continually about God, but what angel has, as he was to enjoy it, the power to
forgive sins? In the womb of the Virgin incarnate the Word, but only once: in the hands of a priest,
by virtue of output sentences from his lips, incarnate the Word every day, and not as deadly, as
he conceived Mary of Nazareth, but impassible, immortal, glorious,
as it is in heaven.

What power and dignity was the same as yours?

Two distinct features of his personality began to develop in him during this time of his life, while
a student at the seminary. His intelligence, late in understanding, became accustomed to admit what
they gave thought, as preferable to the work of thinking for own,
and the ease with which he could continue the race for that protection
to be dispensed, he did little humble.

There was a priest of the brief career, studying only the rudiments of Latin, philosophy impaired
and some moral Jesuit, but continued the race can, soaking Theodicy,
Patrologia, Hermeneutics, canon law and church discipline, up to a
doctorate in Theology in all of which eight years elapsed, after which
the juvenile was ordered.

Happy Day one in which the simple tonsure him a soldier of the militia of Christ! But this that did
not sprout in your soul to the warmth of faith, or hopefully your good intentions with what
could make managing the divine weapons which would be granted, but born of contact used by
the docility with which she received the words heard so often promised, as was the priest, the
supremacy over other men. The priest is an ambassador speaking on behalf of God, and despise is insulting
to whom he sends, he said, taking St. John Chrysostom, repeating this and other similar phrases
over and over again to soak of the nobility of their mission, as did the pagan oracles to those
who aspired refer to your service. Minor orders of porter, lector, exorcist and acolyte seemed full
of charm, in the amount of dignity and by indicating that advertised. Being goalie the house of
God! Read the word of God to the people! Throw the evil enemy outside
the body in which prey!

Able to approach the Holy of Holies! What a great and enviable privileges!

At last the day of receiving major orders. The Church, speaking to him presented and referring
to him and his companions, asked if they were worthy (worthy illos SCIS " esse?) imposed several
days after withdrawal and exercises, and then anointed and sanctified their hands, making them
the paten and chalice to pair with amazement of the angels, pronounced the archbishop solemnly
these words: Accipe offerre sacrificium Deo potestatem, Misasque celebrare, quam pro tam pro defunctis
you live, in nomine Domini, Amen, and then placed the hands over
his head saying, Accipe spiritum Sanctum, quorum peccata remiseris,
remittuntur eis, et quorum retinueris, retention sunt.

The worm born sinful mouth, the fruit of profane love, the son of carnal passion, impurity was suddenly
redeemed and elevated to a greater dignity than that of kings, coated with powers similar to God,
as the books said they did study. It was a priest; I could intervene in the most noble of
human government, in the care of the soul. But look at the fertile bosom of Nature causes of things,
he said it was stir impurities of matter to dive into the consciousness to illuminate his
reason with the Truth labeled him a wicked, read the life of the people, it decried as sterile
work because Providence's finger traces the destinies of man, listen to your heart, I was warned
to surrender to joy, and love to put on your lips, kinky and distorted
the words of Christ to his mother: What do I have with you, woman?

Don Tadeo, far from letting abandoned their own forces, gave parish, and Tirso after his first
Mass in the capital of the province, which gave rise to a party count was a royalist forces, went
to live in a village, rather, valley, whose harsh inequalities was scattered hamlet homes and
poor people miserable, about who should start to exercise their sacred ministry. Then he devoted himself
entirely to the needs of their state: the Masses, baptisms, weddings, confessions and funerals,
preaching, and sometimes take part in games of his parishioners, were the main occupations.
The few books that led to his retirement eventually serve as a base to an image enclosed in
a box: the study was annoying him. At four months, his only reading was that of absolutist Catholic
newspaper recommended by the bishop of the diocese: Theology, the Scriptures, the Fathers, the
intellectual work represented, was forgotten emerging in its place another kind of business reasons
for thinking, and replacing distinct lineage of devotion to the serious
contemplation of the mysteries and dogmas.

Before that, though little worried something of natural religion, which precludes any revelation,
just the man to save himself as to whether the experience of the senses or through awareness
can be reached, as by faith, to the knowledge of God, whether the method is better demonstration
that the hypothetical and analytic: but soon settled down such impulses, and as if that influenced
the country life, overriding the material to the ideal, fell into a devotion vulgar, and thought,
without tending to spread, got locked in impenetrable boundaries. The first sermon he gave
was of a man who has begun to study: after one year, the sanctification of the parties, the
Immaculate Conception, the Pope's guards, modern miracles, the wickedness of civil marriage, free
call of infamy educated, were his favorite subjects, and the peasants, who at first did not
understand him, began to be excited about his speech, which was not greedy, but the generous, experiencing
something akin to the pride of the mission accomplished. When from the pulpit looked gathered
the flock of the faithful who heard him in devout silence, I imagined
to be the highest performing and noble of human destiny.

There was nothing in his conduct reprehensible. Filled with zeal his duty, barely, very late to
time, wrote a letter, understated and brief, their parents, already used to that distance,
as parents of a son ocean sailing across the world.

His life was relaxed, monotonous, without emotions that agitate and musings which reveals, placid,
perhaps selfish, analogous to a peaceful silence of the countryside.

From the windows of his room covered with eyes wide space, extensive plantings of turnips,
lush cornfields, hollows where sound of running water rose, small houses and scattered half hidden
among the foliage of large brown cupped, and there, on top of a Hill, a chapel with the cross
of overhead cut short by the wind. On the slopes of forests, land tracts seemed ungrateful to
all human endeavor, the summits were crowned of the angles bald rocks gnawed through the centuries,
and stood granite peaks erect in defiance of time. The sky of this region was rarely serene to morning
and evening, at any time of year the ground was covered with mists, licking slopes and high,
rose gradually to form clouds, which, based on ridges of the mountain, tended the flight through
the air, mingling, to the ends of the horizon with other clouds coming from more distant mountains.
The spread of the village contributed to the Tirso lonely, so I had some friction with his parishioners,
almost the precise relationships given its position, so that, no respect is the confidence waned,
and frequency the deal could engender intimacy.

Many years ago in that neighborhood do not remember a priest so secretive and uncommunicative.

Tirso was a rough character, his roughness seemed to intimate the result of some pride for compliance
of duty, and farmers always kept a reserve calculated as if he thought that befitting his status
as a priest the separation of human misery. What contributed most to its reputation, was the
indifference expressed towards women since he took office the parish. Talking to men was cold, and
dry a few words, but this coldness and rose sharply from point to deal with women, for whom he
was only on the lips sourly and thought suspiciously. His youth and the free life of the clergy in
those lands were emphasize more this antipathy to women. Family members in the offices of the
diocese handled the secret record of the conduct of the clergy of the diocese, took many months
believe that there was a womanizer, and espionage, it was not free to be godson Don Tadeo,
only managed to find that, using what was close to his parish city, Tirso used to go to the people
a couple of times a month, remaining there some hours, no one knew where or what he was going.
This made a thousand conjectures on malice; but nothing came to know
with certainty.

Such was the life of Tirso during the first years of their stay in those areas where certainly
was not easy to undertake all the promises of dignity and grandeur
that made it their own imagination and those who consecrated to the
priesthood.

        Then suddenly, and in a few weeks, his life moved in full course.

* * * * *

In towns and villages began to be noticed strange restlessness and unusual move, replacing, to
conversations about the state of the field or the care of estates, dialogues expressed, not fear,
but hope next disorders.

They knew with indignation annoying things, and commented on in anger. The Revolution, which had
an oath to the Constitution sacrilegious priests, and girded on the crown of San Fernando a
son of the jailor of the Pope, seemed to launch a new and appalling excesses governments that happened
in Madrid were composed of enemies of the Church of some of the ministers Protestants were said
and added that the court was hatched a conspiracy to suppress the salaries of pastors and
their convents throw the poor nuns who escaped persecution of the year 68. At this news, first spread
cautiously, and then violent forms, said the region with intense anxiety. The people spoke greedy
to receive and communicate new to justify the exaltation of spirits, those who could not read,
ie the largest number, gathered in circles to hear the relationship
in letters or newspapers are made of state of Spain, which resembled
have fallen to the Moors, began to act with respect leaders names
forgotten, and people who never flaunted its opinion, said frankly
that if, in those valleys he heard the cry God, Country and King,
will answer to him with enthusiasm