 But to study the second year of theology, these
gentlemen of the seminary received a letter written elegantly. In it they expressed he did not feel
called by God to an ecclesiastical career, and that before being a bad priest preferred to learn
the trade from his father or embarking for America. Ended up pleading earnest words that let
you change the theology of the law, to which thought inclined, and this does not give so much
to the chagrin of his father. Benefactors agreed demand. And Sinforoso column was made after the
state rather than the Church, as desired the Perinolo. As the race continued with laws and awards
outstanding at the beginning, Notable later and finally approved, Smear some articulejos Lancia
in newspapers. With this thought in the case of letting the hair grow and put glasses on his
nose. So unveiled its new graduate Sarrió with the aura of glory around whom also made his
debut, and even fought battles in the press. He had joined in the Liberal Party's most advanced
and denying their ancestry. With this, his father was strongly disagreeable. If you enter the
house left debióse to the intercession of the mother. Not speak or give him a penny for their
expenses, limited to consenting him sleep under their roof and eat the ration. After several
months the shoes were skinned and was sorry to see her clothes. But all very well made up for
the lawyer with the packing and gravity the appearance and graceful in his bearing. He spent
the morning reading in bed, afternoons and evening in the café loudly discussing what he read
in the morning. The neighbors do not loved him but respected much your artwork and talent.

-
Who has asked for the floor? - Asked Don Rosendo.

- Suarez ... Sinforoso Suarez - said the young man leaning his breast
over the railing.

- You've got, Mr. Smith.

The young man coughed and put his fingers on both hands through his hair, leaving it hollow and stirred,
put on glasses that brought hanging from a cord and said:

- Gentlemen.

The firm, calm intonation that gave the word, and made long pause
after ensuring glasses on his nose and walking a look of a great man
in the competition, imposed silence and respect.

- After the brilliant
sentence just made my dear friend illustrated assistant of the port,
Mr. Peña (the helper, but has not spoken with Smith more than three
Sometimes in life, leans grateful.

Sarrió respectable neighbors learn that there more prayers to the Lord's Prayer, the Hail Mary
and the other prayed by the Church), will be well convinced the assembly of generous and patriotic
purpose which has inspired the promoters of this meeting. Nothing big, nothing so beautiful,
nothing so sublime as people gathered to see a to discuss the highest and dearest interests of
his life. Ah, gentlemen! to listen just now to Mr. Peña, I imagined being in the Agora of Athens
deciding, as a citizen free, including free citizens as well as I, the destiny of my country.
I imagined hear the word strong and burning one of those great speakers who illustrated the Hellenic
people ... Because the eloquence of my dear friend Mr. Peña has a lot of the passion that characterized
snatched Demosthenes, the prince of speakers and enough also on the fluidity and elegance that shone
in the speeches of Pericles. (Pause hand glasses.) is alive and vibrant as Cleon, is sensible
and prudent as that of Aristides; have specific and serious tones as the corners, and notes
as pleasing to the ear Isocrates. Ah, gentlemen! I too, like the eloquent speaker who preceded
me in speak, wanted the town where I first saw the light of day, wake up progress to life,
the life of freedom and justice ... Sarrió!