 That must be wonderful .... We entered, and a world of pomp and harmony,
memories and solemn nature of the ruins and animation, offered to
our eyes.

I had no idea, unless the Colombian jungle than a luxury similar vegetation. From the door
inwards, in an extension of several hundred meters, lies a lush forest of old trees, under
whose shade canopy is absolute. This forest is divided into several streets magnificent macadamized
whose sides run and jump clear that flows to form a delightful music. There is a ray of sunlight
penetrates under those domes where the sacred genius loose a race, an entire civilization disappeared
.... On the right, between the halls of ivy and elm trees and colossal walls and towers stand inside
the fortified line that separates itself from the Alhambra gardens much of the city. On the left,
extending to fifth (including the very famous for a rich banker, Mr. Calderon), surrounded by orchards and gardens
cármenes or if it has what is most delicate and beautiful, aromatic and voluptuous vegetation Andalusia.
That paradise of scents, shadows, vegetables and harmony is inhabited by hundreds of nightingales
hiss slowly when approaching night. She wants to live there many years in a relentless collection
of love, contemplation and poetry .... It passed under the portico of the city, leaving the city
forest of mysterious harmonies and the traveler is in the vast courtyard of the tanks. The center cavity
is huge underground reservoirs: South Alcazaba tower and platforms
of Prisons, and later Vela high tower, north of Summer Palace to the
right, a wide street to the left, leading the city or town, and the
center of the palace of Charles V, massive and noble tasks ruin a
small part of the site to cover the Winter Palace of the Moorish kings.

Whenever giant rubble, misery and sorrow, - skeleton colossal military and artistic miracle of
civilization .... Go up the stairs of the building walls Prison break bleak dusty steps resonate
abroad granite mass of brick and hard, producing echoes that appear to be hidden under the cries
of the victims crowded houses for huge.