 This cessation of smiles and laughter of a another, and I felt
I downloaded the mind of a great weight, because that weaknesses are strung together of life, and
has never been told the truth as the pompous Don Hermogenes: "There is little or much at all.
"

Twice accompanied us on these expeditions, exploration and mixed game, the priest Don Sabas, but
no weapon that pinto club that served as a cane. Was it something like gunpowder decline in spending
in those bursts of pure pleasure, and called them "creatures of God" those who were in the magnitude
scale, from wild boar and roe down. But how knew the full scale complete and true, and those
mountains and other such, and how respect he heard the two men, as hunters, both are growing at
my side, and how happy I listened and I watched him this way ... and many others, for those
without eyes or the rough ears of Chisco witted and his comrade!

Because it's true that this word hombrazo so dull and so poor in resources in the party My uncle,
a bit more pleasant and loose officiating in the church where he spoke from the altar more fairly
to the case and the extent of understanding of his rustic parishioners, in the heights of the
mountain did not seem to himself. It was under him, to be much, the interest to know in a few
colorful phrases and the news I asked, not to satisfy I supplied the Chisco and his partner,
about the great beasts in their hideouts in those mountains and how to catch them, trouble sets
in which they had seen him and As this was related to near and far, their descriptions of journeys
made by this or that port during an unbridled "cellerisca" their risk of death among these snowdrifts,
sometimes at fault and clinging to life itself, and most of them for love that of others: the
rest was, for me, the way they "fall" on the mountain, like a statue master in its own right
pedestal; that their way of enjoying the nature that surrounded, swelling it by smell, by sight
and even every pore his body, so after this surfeit, was reading me aloud as he passed his
eyes through the pages of this immense book so close and in Greek to me, the ease that was within
the rough simplicity of their language, the right word, the picturesque touch, note exact box needed
to be well observed and well meaning, the role played in this work of true artist, his painting
club, stressing in air and the end of the arm extended, the force of words, the folding of the
humble cassock, gently moved by the continuous air blowing from the heights, the head erect,
eyes sparkling, his hat down over his neck, correctness and elegance, in short, all lines of
this living sculpture ... Oh! diéranle the poor priest in plain land in the open valley, in
the city, a miter, the papal tiara in the capital the Christian world, and would give them death:
breathing at will, to live at ease, to know God, to feel in all its immensity, to worship
and Don Sabas serve as served and worshiped him, he needed the continued spectacle of those
grand altar of that wilderness, rugged and lonely, with their peaks vanished so often in the
clouds that blended with the sky.

None of this, how beautiful it was and so was the view, read or estimate
the two monsoon how deep respect for Don Sabas had only become a priest
of the parish and man of unquestionable competence as soon as they
reached them.

My temper, in the scale of the sensible, not even reached the level
of the innumerable as for "feel natural" need to see reproduced on
canvas and embellished by fantasy the painter and resources of the
palette, and yet, I read something I had never read in nature every
time I looked in the light of the impressions of Don Sabas perched
on the tops of the mountains.

And it was much appreciated and even admired for me this miracle cure Tablanca poor; miracle that
had never been to me no pictures, no books or speeches.

On the last occasion for those coming home the two, I surrendered, and hastily, and it so fresh
and so lively as if it had not left the place, told me he had seen everything me until then
it was like to see nothing and had to do something that I had promised.

- What you want when you want - I answered trembling, for its commitment to acquiring with the
man for whom gambling excursions were a thing to me out of joint.

- Well, my account is the case - he replied - and there is no more to say.

VIII

My visits to the village thorough examination alone and I made my own, leaving appear in it as
the careless, to surprise the best in their intimacy. Knowing "Sight" to your neighborhood
at Mass the previous Sunday, I had noticed very strongly monotonous uniformity "cut", so to
speak, and even clothing. All the boys used the 'lastic' red and green all the old, and all women
had the "blanket" or similar color shawl and similarly crossed over his chest and kidneys; everywhere
and all kinds abounded blond and the curved line, not without grace, with a tendency the square to
the shoulders, everyone walked, talked and moved with the same calm, and in all faces, old
and young, you could see the same expression of goodness in some tinge of fright, as if the continuing
vision of the great masses in whose shadow they live those people, the had frightened and suspense.
I did not have one iota to rectify these impressions, received at a glance that the whole neighborhood,
when I tried studied in further detail on the contrary, resultóme that the monotony of their
way and clothing to be well confirmed by, had to add another monotony less salient by the
way: that of their rooms. All Tablanca houses, with very rare exceptions, I found the same plane
built by: the ground floor, for livestock stables sheep and goats, on the floor, family room and
the kitchen ceiling without the roof, and above the loft, bounded by a vertical board on the edge
corresponding to kitchen, forming with the three remaining walls what might be called "smoke
box." Outdoor accessory to a block and a cattle barn, and stuck to her or the house, an orchard very
small.

Just as in the kitchen of my uncle spoke all over the place for young and old, old and young.
As a characteristic of that language, such as jacks and Hs oes as
esu end gratia "jermosu" and "jormigueru" with beautiful mound.

But as so melodic and rhythmic cadence is giving the sentence, which are not the rough a word
is unpleasant to the ear: on the contrary, and have expressions and idioms of taste so signally
classic, that this and the rhythmic chant that accompany them, listening a conversation between
those mountaineers, came to my mind the "music" of our old romances.

It is also very noteworthy that none of these peculiarities in the way of being and expression,
undergoes alteration visible by changing places or customs. It's very common there to migrate
during the summer the men servants to the provinces as distant as
those of Aragon to hold the office of sawing wood, or those of Castile,
or work implements chestnuts, to exchange for wheat or cash.

I spoke with these men, newcomers the valley after many months away from him, and did not find the
slightest difference that distinguished in dress or speech, or how to conduct themselves at
all, its other neighbors; nor have I found after looking for her to try, very noticeable signs
that interest them outside their homes, rather than the issue that brings them, as if they only
had eyes heart to see and feel the native homeland.

The race is as healthy and beautiful I have ever known in Spain, and I think they are a prominent
part it continued fitness of the mountain, the abundance of milk and the integrity of customs public
and domestic. I learned with astonishment that there was no place in a tavern, and that Property
of the City, who sold the recipe and came to almost every consumer
I drink at home, from where it was, by force of habit, which was very
poorly regarded the man who showed instincts' bartenders, "and much
worse that was carried away from them, albeit rarely.

Not so stunned me the news that there was scarce a lot of money, to be a common lineage shortage everywhere,
but I thought it was of note that of which, however, were common fruits of the earth, as among primitive
peoples; and so it is important that services are paid with a half dozen or panicles a miller
chestnut. What is not in that valley are potatoes, but instead, abundant harvest of promise in
the valley of my paternal grandmother and upstream Nansa, where there is no maize, which is the
main crop Tablanca, so these two valleys, separated by four hours away at a good walk, are in frequent
treatment to change those important fruits of the earth.

Almost all men are Abarquero Tablanca, some of which, while being farmers, industries that make
a trade. They camp in the summer, in the bush in teams of eight to ten, cut wood, prepared in
the rough sandals pairs, and so them down to the village, where, after it cured, they concluded
just a little. In this task I found some of them occupied, and seeing me enthralled narrow
adze handle overalls and long shear, or removed by curette curly chips from deep and intricate
the Almadreña, or "painting", the tune and, at knifepoint on artificial patina dried colostrum
fire.

Others are more carpenters, and also collects and prepared in the bush timber stands and "canes"
(poles) of horses, or farm implements which are then refined and topped down.

Another peculiarity of those people buried among the highest mountains of the Andes: called "the
Mountain" to the flat land in the valleys of the coast, and "mountain" to its inhabitants.

One of the first people I got "the talk" on that occasion, was a man that was very original.
I found him picking edges of the floor and closing the gap with them a 'morio' which had collapsed
there. He worked with great deliberation, and was pushing a lot, without removing the pipe
from his mouth, every effort he made, because it was old.

He greeted me very smiling at me beside him, and I even called my name, "Don Marcelo."

Enough my quality of "sir" and a stranger to earn those honors a person of Tablanca, where are
all the same courtesy, but I was also nephew of Don Celso, son "of the late Don Juan Antonio"
blood Bejos Ruiz, of the noble substance of Tablanca, the "house" "...», Going up there, the Pharaohs
of there, something indisputable, prestigious and respected per se and as of divine right, but
not the authoritarian manner despotic feudal traditions, but to the
patriarchal and llanota of biblical times.

No wonder, then, should not miss me, view things from this side, the warm welcome I excused
the man morio.

Was "amañandu aqueyu" because he was in face view "in Abertal."

Finances were not his, 'As I could understand, "nor the land nor any fence, but had seen a day removed
the first song of the middle, then two of the "apareaos" with him,
and then "other of arrimaus to eyus "and finally, he had said," to
the first celleriscas to come, or the first response to jocique up
a little lick pa verdinis Estus is the moriu esborrega around here.

" And so it happened. Three days was the open gap without being seen by the owner farm and
a further four 'Pedric "he fruitlessly for him to take up before it biting beasts to that gate and
ended up with the "poverty" of the fence ... until passing the "moriu" weeks in that state "bichornosu
'he had resolved to close the gap. Why was this "one", and I could not help it. Not in all cases
less than that the interest that was taken by the alien, but she always gave in his face and
got into big care carelessness of others. I knew him when I had come to Tablanca and life I had
done since then. She loved me attached to the land and the house of my grandparents. Chisco
was a good companion to walk where I walked with him Pito also Salces, but not as "amañau" as the
other "pa the AUTU of rozasi with finus gentlemen." If Chisco out of Tablanca as was Robacio, there
is nothing to ask. Still yet, faithful, honest and serving workers as it was and where he served,
no parent of that place was in "josticia of law ", close the door of his house. Then there
were those who, if not properly closed, either is the opening of goodwill. Topics men. The girl
was nice, and some goods had inherit in their day, but was not "to each Callejues regolver" a
good man flow was a "per with himself." Well she knew him, so looking at Chisco with good eyes,
but it was a very different looking from his father, and he understood. The mother was on the
road different than her husband, and snuggled closer to those of the daughter ... In addition
and settlement, and what Don Celso fix, if the thing was good for everyone. But what "amejao" my
father I found it! She had known him a little more than "mozucu" because Don John Antonio I would,
if alive, at the foot of ten years. He had left the place without having Hair beard yet, then
again, "mozallón arroganti Jechu a" but "come out here and Aya, as he says otru that. " "We pulled
it mundanu Muchu Jacia had big bucks apañau through the land of God and the woman who waited to
marry him. Had become to be alone "the mayoralgu" he never wanted to destroy out of Tablanca.
"Although it was not mujeriegu of by suyu ", loneliness and other penalties had been forced
to marry well. Married Well, that yes, "Lifetime Bejo Rock!" with the best of Caórnica, home
of the Pine: Dona Candida Sanchez del Pinar. It seemed I was seeing, so arrogantona and so ...
and then involved with their softness ... But God had not wanted things happen from there,
and today a son, and tomorrow another, had been the three who had been taking, and finally
it worth a Potosi pure gold, and with it the light and joy of the house, which fenecería "Tomorrow
or on otru" with the poor Don Celso, who had been about to die. And deceased Ruiz de Bejos latter,
and in closing the house or moving to unknown owners, what Tablanca would not live for his,
no one came over in the valley as old as the same river that crossed? So he was glad both of
my coming. Permission might well be of God. Because if I take attachment to the land, what
better owner for the house, no more pompous Lord for the entire valley, when Don Celso missing?
Ah, how happy he is to I was cheering! For now, there had to serve him in whatever he wanted
to send ... Cucón Nardo, the "TARUMBA" if it wanted more plain and familiar, because it was called
the mote, did not know why, but it was the truth that offended him ... Anyway, was closed gap
...

That was when he joined the TARUMBA all, although still somewhat bent kidney and fairly wide apart,
and faced me. His talk had lasted as long as their work and I had not done more than look
at him and hear him. He removed his pipe from his mouth after rubbing both hands against his
pants, Smote face down on the thumbnail on the left and taught me a smile full of teeth chipped
box. It was an old man's face placid and very gray hair matted, somewhat reedy voice and very hard
to "hinge", ie, awkward their every move. For a man as careful as that of the estate of others,
I felt very well looked after itself had in view. I say this by the shabbiness and filth his
whole person, which were very large ... Still, it was interesting
and very nice the old man.

I talked to him a good while yet, because I entertained a lot of their conversation picturesque
and I finally asked about the doctor's house.

- Sail there - I said turning around to the right hand and pointing to "Lord a building more
than the current rate in the village -. Two is Zanchetta in it.

- And Don Pedro Nolasco? - Ask later.

- Sailing to the other manu - he answered, pointing with his opposite -. Above tejau of the
first to tend orchards, güertu, looms the Aleru vencíu and detraseru
jastialón of eya, with its balconies with fierru.

In this coming toward us from the top of the site, whose homes, like
those of all mountain areas, have no rhyme or reason to each other,
a girl of good picture, with a highly polished copper cauldron on
his head, and a clay pitcher in each hand.

The TARUMBA, after meeting her, he winked at me, turned back and
told me while carrying on snuff his pipe

- That's Tanasi.

- Who
is Tanasi? - I asked myself.

- The eldest daughter of Toperu - he
answered.

- Who is the Toperu? - He inquired.

- Pos is the father
of Tanasi ... Come the monsoon Chiscu courting.

- Aha - I cried watching
her carefully, because time was passing in front us.

The monsoon, which had assumed something of what we were discussing
the TARUMBA and I became very red and smiled, lowering her eyes to
give us good morning.

Heart praised the good taste Chisco, and I explained well the molehill.

- Well, what the hell you want for your daughter? - Asked TARUMBA.

- One such Pepazus - I said it -.

A mozallón as a cajigu, which removes two hazas of a cave, eats cuatru
Cavone, and unless the pump unless it tenemus moriu ahead.

You say you have the Toperu this hobby, not because I am able to
juralu that as Nah, you, sir Don Marcelu, can ponder me and what I
will or that come in these canteens?

Putting up at the doctor's house, who wished to pay his visit that
day, despedíme the TARUMBA, but it, cutting by half the dismissal,
she said she "gypsy he was also because both houses were full, and
his doctor, just opposite, and cast to walk beside me.

We spent an alley with many Bardales, and lead to a square green land and contoured for the most
part died with ivy and elders, said my companion, pointing to the
left and bottom of a bag that was there for two enclosures, one of
'busquizal "(thick bush) and a crumbling wall between weeds:

- This
is my home.

And turning to the opposite side, he added, while pointing to another
that closed the square there:

- And this is the méicu.

The house snuggled TARUMBA the wall on one side of ruin, and there was with him at pains and
losses and the harnesses from the owner. With these thoughts in his head, looked at TARUMBA without
saying anything, but he must have read it to me in the face that
I put, because I said right away:

- No espanti of EYU, because it's
metal or wood.

I stayed and women, not because of the salt beds and the hijus, among Casaus and ausentis, it mesmu
that if any; and I do not reach the pa ná tiempu with the work they give me the ajenus beware ...
Because, believe me Nah, you, sir Marcelu Don, what happened to me has vistu moriu Nah, you
raise, going on here with a thousand and five hundred to ca time of day and nochi, and if not
by the Tarumbu juera, Nah, you don believe me Marcelu, believe me tomi Nah, you and not to emponderancia:
if the Tarumbu juera, the goal of Tablanca vecindariu of callejonis Estus she would have been
devoured by the swarm and cuerus vivus.

Well keep me even putting it in doubt, I left him very affable, and I went to the doctor's house,
which was two steps.

IX

Since he had known little more than a glance, at my uncle, I felt a great desire to take a
paragraph to my taste Tablanca's physician, because it seemed to me at that youth had more 'quarry'
which is in the usual type and flow of men their age and circumstances. And the quarry was
the first clearings, at ground level, as they say.

As I had been closer to home, came out to meet up with a doublet portal home, little more than
summer, despite the cool winter running environment, but with good
coats and plump white flesh that stuck out in hives and gathered cuffs
of her nightgown and above the slight neck jacket.

Upstairs Condújome a few sections, then a short passage, and, finally, I introduced a living
room with sunshine and cabinet, which, for the furniture and the
books it contained, I assumed from then he would dispatch.
