 Seemed to be enjoying voluptuously
of insensitivity that gradually penetrated his being, of preludes of nowhere.

- And yet - he concluded by saying Fr Gil, a sigh and staring always on the balcony - would
not it be infinitely sweeter this time if the entry of a new life, if our souls come down a legion
of angels to take her to enjoy God ever, as we Christians believe?

The mayorazgo lifted her eyes a little and made signs of denial to the head. Closed again. But after
making some effort to join instances, firm voice said:

- For life in another world I would be bearable ... would be forced to transform my completely
... My character in itself be enough to get bored ... Leave me to rest in peace ... Let you, Father,
to destroy the fundamental mistake of my life ... Neither do I win nothing to perpetuate ... or
not the universe ... There are other makers millions to sustain the
burden of life.

- But it is horrible to enter a night without limits,
forever!

- Not so ... Life is a nightmare ... Death is a peaceful
sleep ...

He closed his eyes again.

Fr Gil squeezed her hand affectionately, exclaiming:

- Who knows?

The dying man's hand trembled slightly. The toilet did not re-deploy the lips. He bowed his head
on his chest and also closed his eyes, pressing them with the tips of fingers, as if trying
to contain the torrent of thoughts that escaped from his brain. The wind and rain had ceased.
There was no sound in the room but the distant sound of waves crashing against the rocks.

The meditation of the priest was long and painful. The blade sharp and penetrating cold skepticism
in her womb: a hand tossed mercilessly cruel to tear better. What that man, maddened by pain,
he said it might not be true. But it was what it claimed Christianity? This, in the final result
was also an attempt to explain the existence and the universe, more beautiful, more consoling than
the others ... but in the end an attempt. No security could hold her, because they do not have
it in our power to know things.

When after a long time raised his head, the shock he received made him leap in the chair. D. Alvaro
was dying.

His mouth was open and picked up the silent air, no longer sufficient
to move their waste lungs.

- D. Alvaro!

D. Álvaro! - He shouted, shaking.

No answer.

Fr Gil took the fan was on the bedside table and hurried get air. At the same time screamed:

- Godmother! Godmother! Come!

Ms Eloisa and the maid rushed into the room.

Tried in vain to revive the dying giving incorporate air after opening the balcony, rubbing
her feet with a brush doing everything that I suggested at the time
his imagination.

It was the last attack of breathlessness. Occasionally opened his mouth. He moved his fingers
shaking slightly. But its appearance is was quickly immobilized. The man transmigrate to the
statue, the soul is turned into stone.

He breathed three or four times the air and froze, motionless, eyes and mouth parted.

Ms Eloisa embraced him sobbing and kissing his face covered corpse. The maid broke screaming
as if she was hitting. Gil's father dropped to his knees and began to read quietly by his breviary.

After
a while Ms Eloisa and the maid also knelt at the foot of the bed
and prayed. But it, seeing a tear to hover between the lashes of his
brother, he rose quickly and caught it with his handkerchief. Tear
was shed that just died, tear Protest against power ominous creature
that has taken them from nothing without asking.

- Look, father,
how calm, how still breathes his sweet face! - Cried good lady, watching
her brother with eyes of pain and tenderness .-- It is well known
that has finally been reconciled with God