 

The dummy

Nine years had passed since Louis Santurce was separated from his wife. After he had been involved in
silk and tulle at the bottom of elegant carriage, passing before him in a flash beauty, or had
guessed from the paradise of Real, down there in a box, surrounded
of men who were fighting the murmuring something in her ear to show
off an intimacy smiling.

These events removed in all the sediment of the last wrath had fled forever his wife as a patient
who fears the resurgence of their ailments, and yet, now would to
meet, to see it and speak it at the hotel de la Castellana, which
was insolent luxury the witness of his disgrace.

The rough movements rental car seemed to blow past memories from all corners of his memory. That life
did not want to remember, was developing with your eyes closed: their honeymoon modest employee
married to a beautiful woman, educated, daughter of a family fallen on hard times, the joy
of that first year of poverty sweetened by affection, then tossing Enriqueta protests against the
narrowness, the deaf displeasure at being called beautiful by all and be humbly dressed, the troubles
emerging for the slightest reason, the brawls at midnight in the marital bedroom, the gnawing
suspicion Gradually confidence husband, and suddenly the unexpected rise, material wealth slipping
through the door, timidly at first, and avoiding the scandal, then insolent display, as believing
enter a world of blind people, until they finally Louis had the unquestionable proof of his misfortune.
He was ashamed to remember his weakness. It was not a coward was sure of it, but lacked the will
or loved him too, and therefore, when after an embarrassing intelligence was convinced of his
disgrace, he knew only raise the clenched hand that beautiful doll face pale, and ended up
not strike a blow. Only had the strength to throw the house and mourn
as an abandoned child just closed the door.

Then complete solitude, the monotony of isolation, interrupted by news that they hurt. His wife
was traveling through central Europe as a princess, a millionaire had released, this was their very
existence, for what he was born. A winter call attention in Paris newspapers spoke of the beautiful
Spanish; their triumphs on the beaches were noisy fashion, tried to ruin an honor for her,
and several duels and certain rumors of suicide were around his name a legend environment.
After three year would be triumphant, returned to Madrid, its beauty enhanced by the strange
charm of cosmopolitanism. Now protect the richest businessman in Spain, and in his splendid
court ruled on a hotel only for men: ministers, bankers, political
influence, characters of all classes who sought his smile as the best
of his decorations.

So great was his power, until Luis believed to feel around him, seeing that political situations
were happening without being touched their jobs. The fear to fight for the sustaining life
made him accept this situation, in which sensed the hidden hand Harriet. Solo and sentenced to
work for a living, I felt, however, the shame of wretch whose only claim to be the husband of a
beautiful woman.

Was worthless running away when its path, insolent and triumphant in his disgrace, to escape
persecution those eyes that were fixed on him with surprise, pride of women losing their coveted.

One
day he received a visit from an old priest and timid-looking, the same who now sat with him in the
car. He was the confessor of his wife. Well had learned to choose! A man kind, short-sighted.
When you say who sent him, Luis could not contain himself: "Valiente such, 'and let the insult
round. But the good old imperturbable as he brings learned discourse and are afraid to forget if it is
slow release, he spoke of Magdalena sinful, the Lord that being who he was, had forgiven him
and passing to the plain style and natural, had transformation suffered by Harriet. I was sick,
barely out of his hotel, a disease that gnawed her womb, a cancer that had to be tamed with
continuous injections of morphine for did not faint and roar of pain
with his cruel scratches.

Misfortune had have turned their eyes to God repented of the past, wanted to see ...

And he, the cowardly man, jumped with joy on hearing this, weak with satisfaction that is avenged.
A cancer! ... The luxury damn rotting inside her, making her die in life! And always so beautiful,
right? What sweet revenge! ... No, not go to see it.

It was useless arguments that seek healing. Could visit whenever he wanted and give news of
his wife: that he was very happy and now understand why men are bad.

Since then the priest visited him almost every evening, smoking a few cigars, speaking of Harriet,
and sometimes went out together, walking on the outskirts of Madrid old friends.

The disease progressed rapidly convinced that Harriet was going to die. Wanted him to beg his
forgiveness, calling it a tone of whimsical and ill child requiring a toy. To the other, the powerful
protector, gentle disposition despite his omnipotence, he begged the priest to take them to the
hotel to the husband of Harriet. The good old man spoke with fervor of the conversion touching the
lady, although admitting that the cursed estate, loss of so many souls, still dominated. Her illness
was a prisoner in her home, but at times of calm, when the rogue pain did not go back and forth
like crazy, flipping through catalogs and figurines in Paris, wrote to its suppliers there, and
rare was the week that did not reach drawers with the latest news: costumes, hats and jewelry,
after targeted and hands a day in the closed room, fell into the
corners or hiding forever in closets, and useless toys.

For all these fads going the other, provided to see Harriet smiling.

These confidences were continuing to slowly penetrate Luis in the
life of his wife was by far the course of their disease and not a
day passed without rozase with that mentally being, we had departed
forever.

A priest was later presented with unusual energy. This lady was in the past, we called aloud,
was a crime to deny the last consolation to a dying, and he does not consented. He felt able
to take it by force.

Luis, defeated by the will of the old, left Drag and got into a car, mentally insulting, but no strength
to back ... Coward! Coward forever!

In pursuit of the black cassock crossed the garden of the hotel many
times, going by the immediate walk, had spied with looks of hate ...
And now, nothing, no hate or pain: a strong sense curiosity, like
entering unknown country, savoring the wonders ahead he expects to
see.

Inside the hotel the same feeling of curiosity and wonder. Ah, wretch! How often in dreams of
his will impotent, was seen entering the house as a husband drama, gun in hand to kill his
unfaithful wife, and destroying afterwards, as a wild beast, expensive furniture, rich draperies,
fluffy carpet! And now tenderness he felt under his feet, the beautiful colors by sliding his eyes,
the flowers that greeted him with her perfume from the corners, an intoxication causábanle eunuch
and felt impulses to lie in that furniture, to take possession, as if he belonged, being of his
wife. Now he understood what was wealth, and how hard hung over their slaves. Was already on
the first floor, and had not even seen, in the solemn quiet hotel,
none of these details is revealed in death as they enter a home.

Saw as impassive mask reared after thought he saw a gesture of insolent curiosity: a girl greeted
him with enigmatic smile, it was not known whether it was sympathy or mockery "The husband of the
lady", he believed distinguished in an adjoining room a man who was
hiding (Maybe it was the other), and stunned by this new world, went
through a door, gently pushed for his guidance.

Was in the bedroom of the lady: a room engulfed in soft shadows, ripping a strip of sun filtering
through a balcony ajar.

In the midst of this beam of light was a straight woman, slender,
pink, dressed in a beautiful soirée dress, the pearly emerging from
behind clouds of lace, and chest and head with the dazzling sparkle
of the jewels.

Luis back amazed, protesting the farce. "That was the sick? Had he been called to insult?

- Luis ... Luis !...-- groaned behind him a weak voice, with intonation and gentle child, reminding
him the past, the best moments of his life.

His eyes, already accustomed to the darkness, saw in the back of the room something monumental
and terrible as an altar, a bed stands, and which, under the undulating curtains, incorporating work
was a white figure.

Then he noticed the motionless woman, who seemed to wait with her
slender stiff and his eyes of vague look like blurred by tears.

It was a mannequin art bore some resemblance with Harriet.

The best served to consider developments that continuously received Paris. It was the only actor in
the representations of elegance and wealth that was given alone a remedy for his illness.

- Luis ... Luis !...-- groaned again the little voice from the bottom
of the bed.

Sadly it was Luis to her to be grasped by arms that tightened convulsively
and feel a burning mouth seeking hers, imploring forgiveness, while
a cheek received the warm touch of tears.

- Say you forgive me, say
it, Luis, and I may not die.

And the husband, who instinctively tried to repel it, ended up throwing
themselves into those arms, unwittingly repeating the same loving
words of the happy times.

To his eyes, accustomed to the darkness, was dialed with every detail of his wife's face.

- Luis, Luis mine! - She said smiling through tears -. How do I find? And I'm not as beautiful as
in our times of happiness ... when I still was not crazy. Tell me
God! tell me what you look like.

Her husband looked at her in amazement. Beautiful, always beautiful, her beauty and innocent
child that made it so scary.

The death was not yet there: only between the soft perfume Sovereign of the meat of this majestic
bed, seemed to slip a subtle and distant mist of dead, which gave away the rotting interior mixing
in her kisses.

Luis divined the presence of someone behind him.

A man was walking distance, contemplating with a confused expression, as if drawn there by a superior
boost to the will that he was ashamed. Harriet's husband knew, on average nationwide, the stern
face of that man and entered years, a man of sound principles, great defender of public morals.

-
Tell him to go, Luis! - Cried the sick -.

What does that man there? I just want you you ... I just want my
husband.

Forgive me ... was luxury, luxury damned: I needed money, a lot of money, but love ... just
you.

Cried Henrietta showing his repentance, and the man wept, weak and
humble with contempt.

Luis, who had so often thought of him with fits of anger, and had been seeing him impulses to
throw around his neck, finally looking at him with sympathy and respect.

We also loved her! And the community on affection rather than repel, linking the husband and
the other with sympathy strange.

- Let him go, let her go - repeating the sick with a stubborn child.

And her husband watched the powerful man with pleading, as if asking forgiveness for his wife,
not knowing what he said.

- Come on, Mrs. Henrietta - said from the back of the room the voice of the priest -. Think in herself
and in God does not commit the sin of pride.

The two men, the husband and the guard, ended up sitting by the bedside of the sick. The pain
was roaring, we had to give frequent injections, and the two went solicitous their care. Several
times he stumbled his hands to incorporate Harriet, not separated instinctive revulsion, but rather,
helped with effusion fraternal.

Luis was increasingly sympathetic to that good man, so smooth treatment despite their million, and
that his wife was crying even more than him.

At night, when the patient rested under the action of morphine, the two men, imbued by that evening
of suffering, talking quietly, but his words seeming less remote hint of hatred. Were as brothers
reconciled by love.

Harriet died at dawn repeating, "Sorry! Sorry! "But his last look was not for the husband.
That beautiful bird took wing brainless forever caressing with mannequin
eyes eternal smile and glassy eyes, the idol of the estate, which
stood near hollow head balcony, on which, with infernal glow, sparkling
diamonds, wounded by the bluish light of dawn.

The paella "Roder"

It was a holiday for the district head of the sudden visit of the deputy, matron Madrid, so powerful
for those good people, who spoke of him as the Holy Providence. There was great paella in the
garden of the mayor, a gargantuan feast, entertained by the town band and referred to all women
and children, who peered curious behind the walls.

The flower of the district was there: the priests of four or five villages, as the deputy was defender
of order and sound principles, the mayors and all that in times beadle choice trotting on the
roads bringing Don José minutes unscathed for blemished his white virginity to monster figures.

Among
the new gowns and party dresses smelling of camphor and the folds of the ark stood out lenses
majestic gold and black tuxedo deputy, but despite all its pomposity, Providence district barely
attracted attention.

All eyes were for a man in corduroy trousers and black headscarf, lean, tanned, strong jaws, and
beside him a heavy shorty, not changing without wearing seat behind
him the old gun, which looked like a stick of his body.

It was the famous Quico Baggins, the hero of the district, a thirty-year Roder exploits the
I looked at young people with almost superstitious terror, recalling
his childhood, when mothers told to hush, "Coming Baggins!"

At twenty he knocked down two matters of love, and then to mount with the shorty, to make Roder's
life, the knight errant of the mountains.

More than forty processes were suspended, waiting to be good enough to be caught. But was it good!
Jumping like a goat knew every corner of the mountain, was based on a coin shot in the air, and the Guard
civil, tired of fruitless wanderings, they will cease to see.

Thief ... never. Knight had his outbursts, eating on the mountain which gave him for admiration or
fear of the farmhouses, and if he was a thief in the district, soon
reached your shorty, he had his honesty and theft did not want to
pay others.

Blood ... yes, even elbows. To him a man worth less than a stone path, this beast used masterfully
all sorts of killing the enemy with bullets, with knife, face to face if they had guts to go after him,
waiting and ambushed, if they were so wary and cunning like him.

Out of jealousy had been suppressing the other roders who infested the mountains, in the roads,
one today and another tomorrow, had murdered former enemies, and
often fell to people on Sunday to leave lying on the square, leaving
the mass, mayors or influential owners.

And did not bother him or chasing him. Political passion killed by men who barely knew to ensure
the triumph of Don José, eternal district representative.

The beast was without realizing it, a large polyp claw waving electoral Far on the Ministry of the
Interior.

He lived in a nearby village, married to the woman who drove him to kill first, surrounded of
children, paternal, benevolent and smoking cigars with the Civil
Guard, who obeyed orders higher as a result of an exploit had to pretend
to be chasing him, he spent some days hunting in the mountains, good
pulse entertaining shooter.

We had to see how he cared for the gifted, and notable district paella.

"Baggins this piece of chicken; Baggins, a drink of wine.

"Even the priests, laughing with a ho ho! bondadosote, patted him on the back, saying paternally:
"Oh Bolsonet, how bad you are!"

He was held by that party. Only because he had stopped at the head of the district Jose majestic
on his way to Valencia. I wanted to reassure and to cease in their
complaints, increasingly alarming.

As a reward for their abuses in the elections, had promised him a
pardon, and Baggins he was old and longed to live peacefully as a
farmer honored, obeyed the Lord Almighty believing in his rudeness
that every outrage, every crime, accelerating their forgiveness.

But years passed, it was all promises, and Roder, firmly believing in the omnipotence deputy,
contempt or neglect blamed on the delay of a pardon.

Submission trocose a threat, and Don José felt the fear of the trainer to the beast that is
rebels. The Roder wrote to Madrid every week with a threatening tone. And these letters, scribbled
by brute bloody paw, eventually haunt him by forcing to leave the
district.

You had to see them after the paella, talking in a corner of the garden,
the deputy, obsequious and friendly.

Baggins, frowning and moody.

- I came just to see - said Don José, stressing the honor accorded
him by his visit -.

But what is the rush? Are not you well, dear Quico? I have recommended to the Governor the province,
the Civil Guard says nothing ... What do you need?

Anything and everything. It really did not mind, but it was uncertain, could change times and going
back to Mt. He wanted what was promised a pardon, recordóns! And formulated their claim as soon
as Valencian pronunciation in Castilian unintelligible.

- You got it, man, you will.

Is in the offing, one of these will be.

Baggins smiled with cruel irony. It was not as gross as I thought. Had consulted a lawyer Valencia,
who had laughed at him and pardon.

Had to be caught, charged with patient two or three hundred years that could sprout in numerous
judgments they had extinguished a part of prison, as they say in a hundred years, could come on that
pardon. Recrystallization! Just kidding: it is not mocked.

Deputy flinch seeing almost lost confidence Roder.

- That lawyer is ignorant.

Do you think the government is impossible? Has sentences come out soon, I swear.

And she emptied her talk, she loved with her talk, knowing the power house talkative skills
upon his head dusky.

Roder regained confidence little by little on the Member. Expected, but a month only. If after
this period did not come for pardon, not write, no more bother. He was a MP, a gentleman,
but the bullets only men.

And leave with this threat, required shorty and greeted the entire
meeting. Back to his people wanted to take the afternoon, because
men like him are only the roads at night when needed.

He was accompanied
by the butcher of his people, a fine fellow admirer of his strength
and skill, a satellite followed him everywhere.

The deputy fired
them with kindness feline.

- Farewell, dear Quico - shaking hands
said Roder -. Quiet, will leave soon penalties. They are good your
kids: and tell your wife that I still remember how well I tried when
I was in your house.

The Roder and his assistant sat in the tartan
of his people, three neighbors who greeted Quico Sinor with affection
and a few little boys who passed his hands through his loaded shorty
like a holy image.

The tartan advanced tumbling down among the orange
groves, orange blossom-laden. Ditches sparkled, reflecting the gentle
afternoon sun, and spent the warm space breath of spring impregnated
with perfumes and rumors.

Baggins was happy. A hundred times he had
been promised a pardon, but now it was for real. His Squire fan and
heard him quiet.

Were on the road a couple of the Civil Guard, and
greeted her amicably Baggins.

In a revolt appeared a second pair,
and the butcher Hastened away in his chair as if he puncture. There
were many couples in such a short path. The Roder reassured him. Had
concentrated the strength of the district by the journey of Don José.

But
just beyond the third pair found that, as above, followed slowly the
carriage, and the butcher could not contain himself. That he smelled
bad. Baggins, there was still time! A down right away, to flee across
the fields to win the mountain. If nothing was going with him could
return home at night.

- Yes, Sinor Quico, yes - said the frightened
women.

But Sinor Quico laughed at the fear of those people.

- Arrea,
Tartaneros ... rhea.

And the trap went on, until suddenly jumped
into the road fifteen or twenty guards a tag with an old three-cornered
hats official front. Through the windows came the mouths of the guns
pointed at Roder, who remained motionless and calm, while women and
screaming kids were thrown to the bottom of the carriage.

- Baggins,
low, or we'll kill you - said the lieutenant.

Roder lowered with
its satellite, before setting foot on land they had taken their weapons.
Even he was impressed by the talk of their protector, and no thought
of making resistance not preclude his famous clemency to a new crime.

He
called the butcher, begging him to run to the village to warn Don
José