 I too, when I
married, my china was crazy. Is it true that you want? ... Well, take down, Frenchy the devil,
someone has to carry, and you do not loose out as a cow mother ... Let's see if I stay full of
grandchildren.

Reappeared the major producer of men and beasts to make this wish.

And if it considers necessary to explain his attitude, he added:

- I do all this because I love you, and I love you because you are serious.

Again the Frenchman was absorbed, not knowing what it was so appreciated the seriousness.

Desnoyers, to marry, he thought of his mother. If poor old could see this extraordinary leap
of his fortune!

But Mom had died a year before, believing his son enormously rich because every month he sent
one hundred fifty pesos, slightly more than three hundred francs, drawn the salary he had in the room.

Joining
the Madariaga family served for less interest is attending to his business.

He pulled the city, with the attraction of the charms are not known.

He spoke with contempt of rural women, poorly washed Chinese, now inspired him disgust. Had left
their country rider clothing and exhibited with childish satisfaction
that suits you dressed a tailor in the capital.

When Elena wanted to accompany him to Buenos Aires, defended claiming troublesome business.
"No, go with your mother."

The fate of fields and cattle not inspired concerns. His fortune, managed by Desnoyers, was
in good hands.

- This is very serious - say in the dining room before the family together -. As serious as
I ... Of does not anyone laugh.

And so the French could guess that his father, speaking of serious, alluded to the integrity character.
According to Madariaga spontaneous statement, since the early days he tried to Desnoyers could guess
a genius like his own, perhaps more hard and firm but not yelling and eccentricities. For this
he had been treated with extraordinary kindness, feeling a clash between the two would not fix.
Their only disagreements were due to costs set by Madariaga in earlier times. Since the son directed
the stays, the work cost less and people showed greater activity. And this without shouting, no harsh words,
with just his presence and short orders.

The old man was the only thing he faced to keep the capricious system
followed suit of the gift.

Indignant thorough and mechanical order, always the same, without some arbitrary quirky, good-natured
tyranny. It is often presented to some of the Desnoyers Mestizo peons
to the public posed by the malice in intimate relationship with the
landowner.

"Patroncito, says the old pattern to give me five dollars." The little chief responded negatively,
and soon after had Madariaga, angry gesture, but measuring his words, considering to which his
son was as serious as him.

- Much love you, son, but here no one commands but me ... Ah, Frenchy! Are equal to all those
of your land pilláis penny goes to the media, and sees more sunshine though you crucified ... Did
I say five dollars? I'll ten. I sent him, and that's it.

The French paid a shrug, while his father, satisfied with the victory, fled to Buenos Aires. It was
good to note that the room still belonged to Madariaga Galician.

In one of his trips back with a companion, a young German, who, according to him, knew everything
and served to all. His son worked too. Karl Hartrott would help in
accounting.

And Desnoyers agreed, feeling a few days a nascent estimate the new employee.

Belonging to two enemy nations meant nothing. Everywhere there are good people and this Karl
was a subject worthy of appreciation. Was kept at a distance from their peers and was inflexible
and hard to lower. All his faculties seemed to focus on service and
admiration of those who were above him.

Just unfold the lips Madariaga German shook his head in advance to support their words. If
I said something funny, your Laughter was a shocking sound. With Desnoyers showed taciturn
and applied work regardless of hours.

Just saw him enter the Administration, jumped from his chair straightening with military rigidity.
Everything was ready to do so. On their own, spying on staff, betraying their oversights and shortcomings.
This service not enthusiastic about his immediate boss, but thanked him as an expression of
interest by the establishment.

The old rancher praised the acquisition as a success, claiming that his son's held alike.

- A very helpful waiter, is not it? ... These gringos of the German work well, they know many
things and cost little. Then, so disciplined! So humilditos! ... I'm telling you, because you
Frenchy, but you have cast evil enemies. Are people hard to peel.

Desnoyers replied with a shrug. His homeland was far away and also the German. Wonder if it
again! ... There were Argentine, and should think about things immediately, without worrying about
the past.

- Also, have so little pride! - Continued Madariaga ironic tone -. Any gringo of these, when it is dependent
on the capital, sweeping the shop, make dinner, take the accounting sold to the customers,
typing, results from four to five languages, and accompanied if necessary, to the friend of love
like a great lady ... all for twenty-five dollars month. Who can fight with people like that!
You, Frenchy, you're like me ... very seriously, and you would starve before going through certain
things. So I tell you that are fearful.

The farmer, after a short reflection, he added:

- Maybe not as good
as they seem.

You have to see how they treat those who are below them. They might think the simple but was
not, and when they smile when receiving a kick, say to himself: "Wait it reaches the mine, and
I will refund three."

Then he seemed to regret his words.

- Anyway, this Karl is a poor boy, an unhappy, just tell me something,
open the mouth as if to swallow flies.

He asserts that it is very family, but who knows of these gringos! ... All starving, coming to
America, the cast of children princes.

"So he had familiarly Madariaga from the first moment, no gratitude, as to Desnoyers, but to
make him feel his inferiority.

He had also introduced in their house, but only to give piano lessons
to the youngest daughter.

"The Romantic" and not placed at dusk at the door watching the setting sun. Karl, once work in
the administration, came to the house of the farmer, sitting next to Ellen, who typed with a
persistence worthy of a better fate. At the last minute, German, accompanied on the piano,
sang fragments of Wagner, which made Madariaga to doze in an armchair with a strong cigar Paraguay
acceded to his lips.

Elena watched with growing interest while the gringo singer. It was the gentleman awaited dream
of the white queen. It was almost a servant, a blond pulling immigrant to red, fleshy, somewhat
heavy and with bovine eyes that reflected an eternal fear of displeasing to their bosses. But
day by day, was found in him something which changed his first impressions: Karl women's whiteness
beyond the face and hands tanned by the sun rising martial of his whiskers, and the ease with
which he was riding his horse, his air troubadour to sing with a
rather deaf tenor voluptuous romances with words she could not understand.

One night at the dinner, could not restrain himself, and talked with
feverish eagerness which has made a great discovery:

- Father: Karl
is noble.

Belongs to a family.

The rancher made a gesture of indifference. Also in those days was concerned. But during the evening
felt the need to unload on someone's inner rage that came gnawing
since his last trip to Buenos Aires, and interrupted the singer.

-
Hey, gringo, what's that in your nobility and other clubs who have
told the little girl?

Karl left the piano to stand up and respond.

Under the influence of recent songs, there in his attitude something to remember when Lohengrin
to reveal the secret of his life.

His father was a general von Hartrott, one side of the war leaders of 70. The Emperor had
rewarded ennobled. One of his uncles was an intimate adviser King of Prussia. His older brothers
were on the officers of the regiments privileged. He had drawn sword as a lieutenant.

Madariaga interrupted him, tired of so much greatness. "Lies ... clubs ... air. "Talk nobility
to him gringo! ... Went very young of Europe plunged into the riots American democracies,
and although it seemed somewhat anachronistic nobility and incomprehensible, is imagined that
the only genuine and respectable was that of his country. For the gringos were granted first
place for the invention of machinery for ships, for animal breeding
price, but all the Counts and Marquises of gringuería seemed fake.

-
All farces - he repeated -.

Not in your country is noble, and you have all together five pesos. Tuvierais If not you would
come here to eat or you send enviaríais women who are ... you know what they are as good as
me.

To the astonishment of Desnoyers, the German dash humbly accepted
this, nodding movements Head to the last words of the pattern.

-
If they were true - Madariaga continued relentlessly - all these titles
batons, swords and uniforms, why did you come here?

What the hell have you done in your country to have to go?

Now Karl hung his brow, confused and babbling. "Dad ... Dad, "pleaded Helen. Poor thing! How to
humiliate him because he was poor! ... And he felt a deep gratitude to his brother to see that
he broke his silence to defend the German.

- But I appreciate to
this young man! - Madariaga said apologetically -.

Are those of the earth give me rage.

When, after some days, Desnoyers made a trip to Buenos Aires, explained the anger the old.
For several months he had been the protector of a forgotten German-born soprano in America
by an Italian operetta company.

She recommended to Karl, a fellow bastard that, after rolling through several countries of America
and perform different jobs, lived next door Knight him in class singer. Madariaga had joyously expended
many thousands of dollars. A youthful enthusiasm accompanied him in this new existence of
urban pleasures, until to find a second life that Germany had in his absence and how they
laughed at him parasites in his entourage, flew into a rage, saying
goodbye for ever, with accompaniment bumps and broken furniture.

The latest adventure of your story! ... Desnoyers guessed this willingness to give hear for the
first time admitted his years. I did not think back to the capital. All lies! The existence in
the countryside, surrounded by family and doing much good to the poor, was the only truth.
And the terrible centaur idyllic expressed with tenderness, with
a firm under sixty-five, and insensitive to the temptation.

After his scene with Karl, and increased the salary of it, appealing
as always to the generosity to repair their violence.

What I could not forget was about his nobility, gave grounds for
new jokes.

That story had brought glory to his memory trees Pedigree players
stay.

The German was a pedigree, and this nickname appointed him up.

Sitting, on summer nights under a roof of the house, was delighted patriarchal watching his family
around him. The night was quiet hum was populated by cloqueos insects
and frogs.

In the distant ranches came the songs of the peons preparing their
dinner.

It was the time of harvest, and great bands of immigrants were housed in stay for the extra
work.

Madariaga had known dark days of war and violence. He remembered the last years the tyranny of Rosas,
he witnessed the arrival. It listed the various revolutions national and provincial in which
he had taken part, not to be outdone by its neighbors, and to those designated under the title
"people." But all this had disappeared and no repeated. Were times of peace, work and wealth.

-
Look, Frenchy - she said, shooing the jets of smoke from his cigar to mosquitoes that tossing
around him -.

I'm Spanish, you French, Karl German, my girls Argentine Russian Cook, his assistant Greek block
the pawn of English, Chinese cuisine, a are in the country, others Italian or Galician, and among
the laborers come in all breeds and laws ... And we all live in peace! In Europe probably would
have beaten us at this hour, but here all friends.

And he delighted listening to the music of the workers: Italian songs laments to the accompaniment
of accordion, guitar playing support to Spanish and Creole voices s wild who sang love and
death.

- This is the ark of Noah - the rancher said.
He meant the tower of Babel, Desnoyers thought, but the old man was
the same.

- I believe - he continued - because we live in this part
of the world there are no kings and armies are few, and men only think
have the best possible thanks to his work. But I also believe that
we live in peace because there are plenty and everyone comes to your
part ... The one rations are closet if they were less than people!

He
returned to be in reflective silence, to add a little later:

- Whatever
it is, we must recognize that we live more relaxed here than in the
other world. Men are appreciated for their worth and get together
without thinking if they come from a land or another. The waiters
are not going to flock to kill other young men who do not know and
whose crime is being born in the village across ... The man is a bad
beast everywhere, I admit; but here come, have land to spare to lie,
and is good with the goodness of a dog sick. There are too many live
in plenty, getting in each other, there is little pittance and become
easily enraged. Long live peace, Frenchy, and the quiet life! Where
one feels well and is not at risk of being killed by things that do
not understand, there is the true ground.

And like an echo of the
thoughts of rustic character, Karl, sitting in the lounge at the piano,
softly sang a hymn to Beethoven. "Sing the joy of life, sing freedom.
Never lie and betray your neighbor, so even if you offer the highest
throne of earth. "

Peace! ... A few days later agreed Desnoyers bitterness
of these illusions of the old. It was war, a domestic war, which erupted
in the idyllic setting of the room. "Patroncito, run, that the old
pattern has peeled knife and wants to kill the German." And Desnoyers
had run away from your desk, when informed by the voices of a pawn.
Madariaga pursued Karl knife in his hand to strike at all who tried
to block his path. Only he could stop him, snatching the weapon.

-
That pedigree scoundrel! - Shouted the old man with a pale face, shaking
between arms of his son -