 Two days earlier they had planted in corn and
Jewish, as many of its neighbors, as to the land must not let it rest.

He could hardly carry the two fields that had plowed and cultivated. But what same as the late
Uncle Barrett, felt the intoxication of the earth ever wanted to cover more with their work,
and although it was somewhat past the time, thought to remove the next day part of land which remained
uncultivated in the rear of the cabin, to plant in her melons excellent crop, to which his wife
would take very good product taking them, like others, to Valencia
market.

There must thank God, finally allowing him to live in peace in this
paradise.

What the land of the plain! ... For one thing, according to the stories, cried the Moors to
be thrown there.

The harvest had cleared the landscape, breaking down the masses of
wheat poppy nuanced that blocked the view from all sides like a wall
of gold.

Now the valley looked much large, infinite, and stretched out of sight the great paintings of red
soil, cut the paths and ditches.

In all the houses are carefully watching the party on Sunday, and as he had recent vintage and not
a little money, no one thought to contravene the provision. There was not a single man working
in the fields, or a horse on the roads. Old spent the paths to the glistening mantilla over
her eyes and a saddle in the arm, as if they throw it to the bell that turned around far,
far away, on the roofs of the village. Chasing screaming at a crossroads a large group of children,
on the green of the slopes stood out red pants some soldiers who took advantage of the party
for an hour at home. Sounded In the distance, like a fabric that is torn, the shotgun against
the bands of swallows flew to one side to another in contradanza whimsical whistling sharply, as
if rayasen with glass wings of blue sky; buzzed about the clouds of mosquitoes ditches nearly
invisible, and a green farmhouse, under the arbor years, as an amalgam Men swarmed colored floral
skirts, colorful scarves.

The sleepy rhythm of the guitars seemed lull a shrill bugle that would throw all the ends
of the valley, sleeping under the sun, the sounds of the Jack Moorish Valencia.

This peaceful landscape was the idealization of a hardworking and happy Arcadia. There was no
There are bad people.

Batiste desperezábase with pleasure, being dominated by the quiet that seemed to pervade the environment.
Rosetta, with the boys, had gone to dance farm, his wife dozed under
the sunshade, and he was walking from his home on the road, per piece
of uncultivated land which gave entrance to the car.

Standing on the bridge, was replying to the greetings of neighbors, laughing as they passed if they
were to witness a hilarious sight.

They were going to house all Cup, to get close to the famous "stubbornness" of the brothers
Pimento Terreròla, two bad heads as well as Pepeta's husband, who
had also sworn I hate to work and spent the entire day at the tavern.

Including many rivalries arose and gambling, especially at this time, it was when increased competition
from the establishment.

The three bullies were pushing in brutality, eager to reach each of popularity over the other.

Batiste
had heard of this commitment that made people go to the famous tavern as in Jubilee.

It was playing barter sit and drink more fluid without liquor, to
see who was the last to fall.

Began on Friday evening, and all three were still in their saddles rope on Sunday afternoon,
playing one-hundredth of barter, with the jug of liquor on zinc side table, leaving only the
letters to swallow the delicious sausages that they highly Cup fame by the innkeeper knew how
well preserved in oil.

The news spreading through the meadow, had come as a procession to all the nations of a league
round. The three handsome were not left alone for a moment. They had their fans, who were in
charge of occupying the fourth place in the game, and when night
came when mass of spectators retired to their barracks, quedábanse
there watching how they played into the light of a chandelier hanging
from a poplar Cup was as ornery man, unable to endure the heavy monotony
of this bet, and so it was time to sleep he closed his door, leaving
the square to the players after renewing his supply of liquor.

Many pretended indignation at the brutality of this "stubbornness", but in the back of his mind escarabeajaba
certain pride in the fact that such men their neighbors.

Look at those youths iron garden breeds! Spirit passed through his body like water.

All around seemed to be staring at the tavern, spreading rapidly prodigious the news over the course
of the bet. Had already drunk two pitchers, and as usual .... Since
there were three ... and so firm.

Copa kept track of drinking. And people, in your choice, bet on any of the three contenders.

This
struggle, which for two days the whole plain passionate and did not seem even close to an end,
reached the ears of Batiste. He, sober man, unable to drink alcohol without feeling nauseous
and headaches, could not hide a wonder very close to the admiration of these brutes, that according
to their assumptions, they should have a stomach lined with tin.

He continued to look with envy to all who marched into the tavern. Why had not He would go
where others? ... I had never entered the house of Copa, formerly the antrum their enemies, but
now his presence justified extraordinary event .... In addition, What the devil! after so much
work and so good harvest, or an honest man could afford a bit of expansion.

And with a cry to his sleeping wife to warn her he was going, took the road from the tavern.

It
was like a human tingling mass of people filled the plaza in front
of house to Cup There were, body shirt, corduroy pants, black belt
and handkerchief bulging to the miter-shaped head, all men in the
outline.

The old were supported by thick staffs of Liria, yellow and black arabesques, showing young
people with bare sinewy arms and reddish, and as thin sticks moving contrast between his fingers ash
huge and calloused. The huge poplars shaded around the tavern to the lively groups.

Batiste was set for the first time in detail in the famous tavern, with its white walls, blue
painted windows and doorways clad in colorful tiles from Manises.

It had two doors. One was the cellar, and leaves open could be seen between the two rows of huge vats
reached the ceiling, piles of empty and wrinkled skins, large funnels and measures of zinc dyed
red by the continued slide of the liquid. At the bottom of the piece was the heavy truck that
rolled to the limits of the province to bring the wine purchases. This room is dark and moist
exhaled a breath alcohol the scent of wine, which intoxicates the smell and sight disturbed,
suggesting that land whole was to be covered by a flood of wine.

Here were the treasures of Copa, which spoke with reverence and respect
all the drunks orchard.

He alone knew the secret of their barrels, through her, the old view staves, appreciated the
quality of the blood contained, was the high priest of this temple alcohol, and wanting to give away
to someone, he withdrew it, with as much devotion as if he had been among custody hands, a
vessel in which the liquid sparkled with iridescent color of topaz crown of diamonds.

The other door was the tavern, which was open from one hour before pointing the day and at night
until ten, scoring on the road like a big black rectangle light red
oil lamp hanging above the counter.

They had the red brick walls and baseboards painted, at the height of a man with a terminal floral
border tiles. From there to the ceiling the walls were dedicated the sublime art of painting,
as Cup, though he looked rough man, attentive only to at night would be filled the drawer
of his desk, was a veritable Maecenas. There brought a painter of the city, keeping it there for
more than a week, and this freak magnate patron of the arts had cost him, as he declared, about
five dollars, more than peseta less.

It was true that the hearing could not go anywhere without tripping over a masterpiece whose
rabid colors seemed happy to parishioners, encouraging them to drink. Blue trees on purple
fields, yellow horizons, bigger houses than the trees and people
larger than houses, hunters with shotguns appeared majos brooms and
Andalusia, with his blunderbuss on his legs, mounted on spirited horses
that looked like rats.

A wonder of originality that excites drinkers. And on the doors of the rooms, the artist, alluding
quietly to the establishment, had painted amazing 'Still Life' livers grenades as open and bleeding,
which seemed enormous pepper watermelon, balls red yarn peaches trying to cross.

Many argued that the preponderance of the house on the other taverns in the orchard due to these
amazing decorations, and cursing the flies Cup dimmed so much beauty
with black dots of their outbursts.

Beside the front door was the bar, dirty and sticky, and behind him, the triple row of small
drums, topped by battlements of bottles containing the various and innumerable liquids facility.
Of the beams, greasy wings, hanging flags of sausages and black pudding,
or small strings of red peppers and fingers pointed as devil, and
breaking the monotony of this set, some ham majestic red tassels sausages.

The

gift for delicate palates was in a murky glass cabinet at the counter. There the stars of pastry,
cakes of raisins, candied sugar rolls, the muffins, all with a certain twang dark and suspicious
spots denouncing old Murviedro and cheese, sweet, fresh, soft white, in pieces like bread,
distilling yet serum.

Moreover, he had his fourth Cup with a pantry, where they were in large pots as monuments matches
the green olives and onion sausages preserved in oil, goods higher
office.

At the end of the tavern opened the corral gate, huge, spacious, his half-dozen fires to cook the
paella. The white pillars holding a vine very old, which gave shade to such a vast space, and
stacked along a stretch of wall Zinc stools and tables in such prodigious quantities that seemed
to have foreseen the Cup invasion of his home in the entire valley.

Batiste, peering into the tavern, the owner noticed, big man bare-chested, but with a cap helmeted
ear-muffs in full summer on his face huge, plump, purple. Was first customer of his establishment:
he never went to bed happy if there was drunk three meals half jug of wine.

Therefore, without doubt, only if his attention is as sprawling bet brought to the whole valley.

His
desk was a vantage point from which, as a knowledgeable expert, watched drunkenness of his parishioners.
Let no one boast of handsome in his house, as before speaking and had seized him at a club
that was under the counter, kind of ace of clubs, which Pimento trembled and all the bullies
of the contour ... At home, no brawls. A kill himself, the way! And when he opened the blade
and stools flying at night Sunday, Cup, without a word or lose your temper, arose among the soldiers,
grab the arm to the bravest, took them in suspense until the road
and blocking the main door inside, quietly began to count the money
in the drawer before bedtime, while sounded out the blows and the
cries of the fight resumed.

Everything was subject to close a hour before the tavern, but inside it would never have any
justice task while He was behind the counter.

Batiste, after looking furtively at the door the bartender, who with
the help of Women and dispatched a servant to the parishioners, he
returned to the square.

There is added to a clique of old men arguing about which of the three holders showed bet more
serene.

Many farmers, tired of admiring the three handsome, played on their own or snacking forming a
circle around the tables. Circulating the jug, releasing its red trickle that a faint rose glu-glu
to fall into the open mouths obsequiábanse at each other with handfuls da peanuts and lupine.
Earthenware dishes served concave gives the tavern maids the Oily
black puddings, soft cheeses, olives games, with their liquid in which
floating scented herbs, and on the tables could be seen the new wheat
bread, rolls blonde cortex, showing inside brown crumb and a thick
succulent meal from the garden.

All these people, eating, drinking and gesticulating, he raised the same rumor that if the
square nest was occupied by a huge, floating vapor in the atmosphere
of alcohol, a suffocating fog frying oil and the penetrating smell
of wine, mingling with the perfume from neighboring fields.

Batiste finally approached the large circle surrounding the bet.

At first I saw nothing, but slowly, driven by the curiosity of those who were behind him, was
making his way through sweaty bodies and tight, to be first row. Some spectators were sitting on
the floor, his jaw resting on both hands, the nose on the edge of
the table and staring at the players, not to lose detail of the famous
event.

This was where most intolerable was the smell of alcohol. Seemed he impregnated breath and clothes
of all people.

Saw Pimento Batiste and his opponents sitting on wooden stools strong carob with the cards
before the eyes, the jug of liquor within reach of one hand and on
zinc the pile of corn that was equivalent to the many of the game.

In each play, some of the three grabbed the pitcher and drank it and went quietly to their partners,
which I would also steep with no less ceremony.

The most immediate audience watching the cards to every man over his shoulder to convince they played
well.

There was no care: the heads were solid, as if there is no drinker but water, no one was guilty
of neglect or made stupid plays.

And still the game, without necessarily those of the bet would stop talking with friends, joking
the end of the fight.

Pimento, on seeing Batiste, muttered a "Hey!"

Was intended as a greeting, and looked back to his letters.

Sereno, you may be pregnant, but her eyes were red, his eyes shone a spark blue and indecisive,
resembling the flame of alcohol, and his face was getting at times
a pallor.

The others were not better, but everyone laughed. The spectators, infected by the game, it passed
from hand to hand jugs paid to cleavage, and it meant a flood of
brandy, which, overflowing out of the tavern down as wave of fire
in all stomachs.

Batiste had to drink up, pressed by the circle. He did not like, but a man must prove all things,
and he again animated by the same considerations which led it to the tavern. When a parent
has worked and is in the barn harvest can well afford his bit of madness.

He felt heat in the stomach and head a delicious confusion. Beginning to get used to the atmosphere
of the tavern, finding more and more funny the "stubbornness."

Up Pimento was a remarkable man you ... his own way.

The players had finished the game number ... (Nobody knew how many) and discussed with friends
about the next meal. One of the Terreròla visibly lost ground. Two days spirit to all grass,
with two nights spent in turbid, began to weigh upon him.

It would closing his eyes and his head dropped heavily on his brother, who wanted revive him
with tremendous blows on the flanks, muted given below the table.

Pimento smiled slyly before this win. Already had one on the ground.

And discussing dinner with fans. Should be excellent, without fear of spending, however, he
had not to pay. A final dinner was worthy of the deed, then surely the same night bet would be completed
by beating another sibling.

And what glorious trumpet announcing in advance the triumph of Pimento, began to sound snoring
Terreròla the small, fallen face down on the table and close to collapse stool, as if all the
liquor he had in his stomach seek the ground by law seriously.

His brother talked about to slap wake, but spoke kindly Pimento as
a magnanimous victor.

And to wake him for dinner. And give little importance affecting to the imagination and his own
strength, he spoke of his lack of appetite as a great misfortune, after spending two days in the
place eating and drinking severely.

A friend ran to the tavern to bring a long string of chillies.

This would restore appetite. Slapstick caused great laughter, and Pimento, for more to impress
their fans infernal delicacy offered to Terreròla still holding firm, while he, in turn, I
was eating with the same indifference as if it were bread.

A murmur of admiration went round the circle. For each chili that ate the other, Pepeta husband eat
up three, and so ended the string, true demons Rosary red.

The gross must have shield on the stomach.

And continued firm, impassive, increasingly pale, numb and red eyes, asking if FIFA had already killed
a couple of chickens for dinner and giving instructions on how stews.

Batiste him with wonder and at the same time I felt a vague desire to leave. Began to fall afternoon,
in the square the voices grew louder, initiating the scandal every
night Sunday.

In addition, Pimento too often looked at him with angry eyes and strange drunken firm. But without
knowing why, he stood there, as if this show so new for he could more than his will.

Friends of the bully gave him a joke to see that after the chilli was tientos jar, not caring
if he imitated his enemy. "I should not drink so much: he was going to lose, and you missing
money to pay. Now was not as rich as in previous years, when owner of the land was content
to not collect the rent. "

Reckless said this without realizing the value of their words, and it was a painful silence,
as in the bedroom of a patient when it exposes the damaged part.

Speaking of leases and pay in the place where actors and spectators he had consumed liquor jugs!
...

Batiste felt uneasy. It seemed that suddenly passed by the environment somewhat hostile, threatening.
Without much effort had run away, but stayed, believing that all looked at him by stealth. Feared,
if he fled, anticipating the attack, arrested by the insult, and
hoping to pass unnoticed, stood as subjugated by an impression that
it was not scary, but If anything more than prudence.

Pimento's fans made him repeat the procedure in value every year Non-pay
to the owner of the land, and celebrated with great laughter, with
shivering of malignant joy, as slaves who rejoice at the misfortunes
of his master.

The relatively modest bully its glories. Every year at Christmas and San Juan, started for Valencia,
tole, Tole, to see to the owner of the land. Other had a good couple of chickens, the basket
of cakes, the basket of fruit to soften to lords, to accept the pay incomplete, crying and
promising to round out the added later. He only had words, and not many.

His mistress, a stately matron, received him in the dining room of
his house.

Walked near here daughters, a señoritingas always full of ribbons and bunting.

Doña Manuela put his hand to the book to remember the semesters that led back .... Pimento "He
came to pay, huh ?...»

And the sly, on hearing the question of Mrs. Pajares, always answered
the same: "No, ma'am, I could not pay because he was without a room.

Knew that This was credited to crook. Already said their grandfather, who was man of great to
know: Who chains have been made? For men. Do you pay? You're a good person. Can not pay? You are
a crook. "And after this brief course of rustic philosophy, appealed to the second argument, which was
removed from his belt a snuff thistles in black, with a huge knife and began to chop rolling
a cigarette.

The view of the knife shudder at the lady, was nervous, and that is why the rogue cut the snuff slowly
and takes to save, always repeating the same arguments grandfather to explain his delay in payment.

Girls
in bows nicknamed him 'the chain', the mother felt uneasy with the presence of this barbarian's
infamous, smelling of wine and talked gesticulating with the knife; and convinced at last that
there was nothing out of it, indicábale that was, but he felt a deep
joy to be upset and tried to prolong the interview.

He even came to say already paid could not save her visits. The lady would forget the existence
of their land. Ah, no, Dona Manuela! Pimento was accurate observer of his duties, and a lessee
should visit his love at Christmas and San Juan, to show that if not why not pay ceased to
be your humble servant.

And there was two times a year, to stain the floor with his muddy
sandals and repeat strings are for men, making pinwheels with the
knife.

It was a revenge slave, the beggar bitter pleasure of appearing with
their stinking rags in the middle of a rich feast.

All the peasants
laughed, commenting on the conduct of Pimento to his mistress.

And
the bully behavior supported with reasons. Why should he pay for it?
Let's see, why what ... Their land and cultivated his grandfather.
On the death of his father had divided the the brothers to his taste,
following the custom of the garden, without asking for anything the
owner. They were those who worked, what they did produce, which left
little by little life on their lumps.

Pimento, speaking passionately
about his work, showed this impudence, some smiling .... Well, he
did not work much because I was ready and had seen the farce of life.
But some Once working, from time to time, and this was enough for
the land were more fairly to him than that fat matron Valencia. I
came her to work, it was clinging to plow all their pounds of flesh,
and the two girls in the yoked and bows pulling it, and then would
be its legitimate owner.

The jokes were rude bully the roar of laughter
to the audience. To all those people still kept the bad taste of the
pay of San Juan, it was very funny to see covered their masters so
cruelly. Ah! The plow was very funny, and each is imagined to see
his master, the paunchy and meticulous annuitant or to the proud old
lady, hooked to the grid, pulling and tugging to open the furrow,
while they, the underdogs, the tenants snapped the whip.

And they
all winked, laughed, clapped their hands to express her joy