 

Recaredo Don came back at once, for having put together a few on the road and all at the door
of the house, up to five wealthy, more or less bound to her by blood distant or ancient friendship,
Nansa the banks of upstream and downstream.

Next to them, appeared in the Hall two characters of great account, which was imposed on me much
for his good looks and harnesses, so different from everything that
was used there and what at the time around me.

It was none other than the famous knight Don Román Pérez de la Llosía and his son Don Alvaro
of Gerra. Iban from Santander, where they lived, and had made the trip in two days. The truth
to all: I, who until then dominated the scene that gives disengage awareness of "worth more"
in the level of education and intellectual culture, to me front of those two competing so distinguished
and elegant appearance, I felt my far down the chimney smoke, even what to wear clothes well,
particularly played as compared with the most correct handsome son of the matron of Coteruco.
I was quite awkward to express the gratitude owed to them by this act as honorable to the memory
of my uncle, and the satisfaction that I felt possessed by shaking hands a few people who
so many big news had reached me from to Tablanca. I remember this was the subject of my response
to the polite greetings two knights, but not what I said. What I am sure you have said is very
wrong.

Valga truth.

Without giving me time to ask Don Román (by which I avoided, probably, the commission a great
impertinence) how high they went back to his purposes Coteruco appeared on the scene another
character of the first class, to which I embraced with genuine outpouring of my soul: Lord,
renowned Provedaño Tower, that to reach the time came, Recaredo as a gift to get from the cliffs
of Deva and of Caórnica from their valley, had needed night walk halfway, and which way! So
he came, his face pouring fires and lips made between the beard and whiskers bristling with
icicles. The had happened before between the coming and present, for all known treatment, or name
at least, spent time, but with the notable difference that the repair that of the of Coteruco
Provedaño did not end all in the warm handshake or family and clapping each other on the back,
but moved and eager each other, without saying a word, hugged so closely that hit did not seem
to separate. Then it was the turn of Don Alvaro, who was not as friendly as that of Campóo his
father, and under this Act was an expression of greeting.

For very little more than these compliments he gave me the time because they had not yet sat
down again half the people there, when Don came word that everything was Sabas early in the
church and we waited. As we were very close and not exceed ten the funeral less than two hours,
and outsiders had to go home after lunch in mine, and evenings were very short, we started immediately,
accompanying Neluco and her sister Mari Pepa, much mourning. The old Marmitón not allow leave.
To have the table and direct and order all that was left was painted Lituca one for this and other
much more. Also Chisco and Pete stayed with two monsoon Salces my confidence, well aware of many
care for me, particularly the monitoring, I do not know if it came spontaneously from within the
occurrence, or because I was inspired by a Women's eloquent look gray, to see how the house would
remain, without us, helpless and all but empty.

And walk toward the church, we saw pop up on the rocky hump of a man tall, stocky, beautiful
head, wrapped a broad-brimmed hat and a gray beard; came to hand with a brown jacket and trousers,
the same color, rolled up on a stout boots of sole and very muddy. He brought his hands in his
pockets coat, a paint stick and knotted under his left arm, and mouth smoked a pipe.

The first thing he saw was the lord of Provedaño, who was the most forward among us. He paused to watch
him singing with his hand over his forehead, and also stopped the other with dark eyes and impassive
upon him. Like two lions. Do not missed more than smell. Then came more, and shook the right
hands with stout shocks. Then I found two mountain twin oaks shaken by the breath of the same burst.
I do not know what they said or if they said something. Why? In these questions I saw Don Román
Pérez de la Llosía out like an arrow, among the laggards of the group coming down, to the
man up, and it, noting that he was approached by Coteruco, detached His right hand of the campurriano,
took off his hat smartly with it, discovering and spacious, white forehead, over which seemed
to reflect the light beam launched then his eyes. I have never seen a man more manly attitude,
nobler and more beautiful. But Don Román not walked in tiny, and like it or not, he shook in his
arms. His son did the same immediately. Then Don Recaredo forward and extended his hand. A whole
this was in the air as the 'Lope' given by many mouths, and with it and I knew the story of
Don Roman busts in his village, narrated thoroughly by my uncle several times, say by known
character, and I was right, for a few moments brought me hand Mr. Perez de la Llosía and presenting
said:

- My best friend and noblest Coteruco neighbors of mine, Don Lope
of Oak Grove.

Comes to Tablanca to offer you personally for all the friendship and respect that he deserved the
virtues Don Celso, and to pray for his soul at the funeral today.

Reciprocated with the utmost cordiality and as best I could to those noble offerings; knew where
he went over there, and unwilling to accept a moment of rest, which did not need back and
went the way to church with us ... I say bad, with only Romao, they took it on his own course,
a good distance away from others, that nothing we come closer to them respecting the holy avidity
with which the noble expatriate Coteruco would use this providential opportunity to know more about
what he knew about the state of affairs of his native town, although they were drawn with the
pick of their desire for that chest of four keys. Meanwhile, Don Alvaro de la Gerra was charting
new and very curious character traits to the incredible original, of that gentleman mountaineer.

Thus
we come to church, where we had not managed to penetrate without
leaving, as they left it, some of those inside, which barely fit after
the porch, also was jammed with people.

The length of the trades did not go down a minute of two hours calculated,
and when we returned the house that it had gone to church, it's strange
that he wanted become Don Lope to Coteruco from there, and it has
become without the intervention of Don Roman, unique among all us
acquainted with the springs that are governed this eccentric character,
he was the table set up with all the grandeur of ancestry ... and
something else that had been acquired, even in the homes of friends,
including Don Pedro Nolasco and physician.

Because we passed a dozen and half the guests, between insiders and outsiders.

At one time I would have an accident in the presence of that food menu, the more than the food
itself, because it was truly frightening that come to the table (taken by Facia and his daughter,
suffocated by the bustle and glistening skin) piles of dishes sausage with shrapnel, from piles
of chicken upside down between gaps of fat; Steak threaded; of lean with hard boiled eggs, meat
in all sorts of dishes, stuffed duck sausage and tenderloin, and
after it, the custard as millstones, and the custard and rice pudding,
a little less than boilers.

They did not understand the direction otherwise women who had handled, and so I explained I
perfectly the desires and anxieties, and people and things that had moved into the house and removed
at the place and out of three day at that hour.

The weight of the conversation at dinner, they brought the Lord of Provedaño and Don Roman. As
was natural and was started by the praise of the deceased and their cool stuff, like in the
kitchen, except the language and style. Among Neluco and I supply the requested details about
his illness and death ... and jumped at once what I saw coming time did, and I wondered why I had
not jumped before the conversation: the point of continuing I was there the charity of my uncle.
Don Roman was silent here as death, and said the famous campurriano,
after applauding the good intentions declared by me to put all means
to achieve such great goals, if I decided, in my procedures, to serve
protected my old wine into new bottles, which he does not disapprove,
he did with great touch, 'because - he concluded - and beautiful is
the light, but do not open all the windows suddenly those who have
lived in darkness for ailments of the eye, for there to be afraid
of the crazy things enter through the dazzled eyes.

" This could no longer remain silent Don Roman, and gave the example Coteruco's fall, as a demonstration
of what his friend said. Straightened the conversation these lanes, we talked about what it cost
him acclimate to life in the city could not her such a man, born to breathe oxygenated air, pure,
Nature, and also required the presence and even the company of those men, rustic, even with
their ingratitude. The action of leaving them alone with his sin, had made very good fruit. Gradually
raising had gone from his fall, and already missed. This will consoled and satisfied him, and if
he had not already Coteruco was because I wanted to be desired a little more, to better ensure
the healing of his "crazy." Unfortunately not involved those children of their dreams, because
they had other tastes very different, but all could fixed with some sacrifice of everyone. Meanwhile,
distracted by his impatience with spells of a little grandson that God had given him, and was the
most beautiful creature he had born mother. He went then in proceeding with Sotorribas projects,
so that the known his other grandfather, Don Lazaro, whose ailments prevented him from leaving
home.

Someone asked if there was true that Don Gonzalo González de la Gonzalera had been poor memory
and trouble and waste resulting from domestic, but got no response the question because of
a sudden appeared in the room a new character that began to say that not for having shot three
times on the floor and almost burst the dappled in his desire to run, had been reached before.
Thus came the unhappy muddy and tattered from head to toe! He was a man of good age, nice picture
... and its municipal judge people, from that very empingorotado that I had met one of my blood
of promise, Neluco going to the Tower of Provedaño. The case was that by going to ride early in
the morning attend the funeral of my uncle, had delivered a letter from the court of first instance
forcing him to practice some procedures as he entertained about two hours ... all respects
to "trigedia" the day before, that I should know, and for this the truth were told, for who knew
him mainly came.

Hicímosle seat at the table, preventing Facia that were served from the noodle soup inclusive,
and while out Tona and his mother was changing and removing leftover food destroyed in stews,
and all we paid him very great care, he noted that lowering a pastor of winter, just started
the desnieve, cross country, because it pushed the ran very cold and a black cloud of bad part
and worse road, stopped for a moment and take a tinderbox and light the pipe, the same mouth
of a covachón, known to very few for being out of path frequented, as half the distance, the short cut
between Tablanca and the people of relatante, but in this municipality. Standing there and give
the pastor you hit the edge of the knife, because it sparked the stone was not tinder the best,
notes on the nose gives a "jedor" that would lie on his back. Look here smells there, note that the
jedor out of the cave, curiosity tempt them, enter, and at a bend very wide, to the right,
sees three men lying in the long run, face up, stiff and almost stacked
on each other, killed three and leaning against one of ash and embers
Piluca off.

Frightening, flee from there, and for being the closest, according to his account, gives the
people the narrator relates what he has seen. It goes back in his office, accompanied by appropriate
way, and truth is denounced by the pastor. Three were, indeed, the bodies and of well-known
place, and were well equipped firearms ... and up ropes and knives. Without doubt the surprise
snowstorm there since the beginning, and they perished from hunger and cold ... by decree
of God who knew his evil intentions. It was a comb that was called an engineer and said go
in search of a gold mine, months made and, with his ragged clothes, his matted hair and wild beard
and seams in the face, it started half an eye and nose.

Here there was a clatter of dishes infernal tattered, and a cry of Facia who is had fallen
from his hands as a dozen of them. Then I looked and found her looking at me me with frightened
eyes and the color of death in the face. I told him to mine not to commit indiscreet; entendióme,
and added in words and smiling was not the mess one reason to be frightened so much, referring
to the pieces, while snuggled Tona the municipal judge's two half-full of dishes knowledgeable
sources, so some pasmadona had caught the story, but probably more by the disaster of the
vessel, which had started her mother cry.

Relatante to become the story after this incident, and seeing that, out of respect for I certainly
was with Repulgue and fussiness to testify who were net Castilian the other two dead, apresuréme
to say:

- I am well aware of who it is, and you want to avoid reluctance to
declare before me are two of my relatives, of the two gentlemen of
promise.

With a that the engineer lived CHIRLA, in his hometown of you: we saw them together and I passed
Neluco for him, going to Provedaño. As good news source, then waiting overnight missing brother
of one my relative (who, apparently, arrived in time) to give final blow to the exploitation of gold
mine he had discovered the lynx wild beard. In good justice, had three more than deserved
the stick, which had dead are not dying in this different manner. So you see you if I have to
reason, as far as touches my relatives, to rejoice that they have finished well, like any good
man.

Preopinante said was the truth that everything I had said, added in response a question that
someone did, that the man in the face Chirlo had lived in the place with the name, certainly,
of course, Pedro Gonzalez as reflected in his personal card, and
that that had been registered as dead in the book in question; alegréme
yo this, and surely would be glad Facia, who listened, much more ...
and ended the conversation without getting into a new one, because
he had also finished the meal, time was pressing and had much to outsiders
for the guests go back to their homes each, and other to complete
their journey.
