 A cavil and quibble force reaches the point of
hallucinating himself, and what initially was a vague thought, without stability and consistency, it
becomes incontrovertible truth. Embarazarian exceptions too; the easiest thing is to build
an universal proposition: behold the axiom. Come after numerous cases not included in it does not
matter: this object is conceived in terms general and unclear or unintelligible, to be interpreted
in a thousand different ways suffer on your screen all the exceptions you want without losing
any of its prestigious reputation. Meanwhile, the axiom serves admirably to build an extravagant reasoning,
giving weight to an absurd trial, or banish a hard constraints: they are offered to the spirit
doubts about the truth of what you stand for, when it is feared that the building does not come to
the floor with thunderous ruin himself is said the spirit, "No, no danger, the foundation is
solid; is an axiom and an axiom is a principle of eternal truth. "

To deserve the name, it is necessary that the proposition is so obvious to the spirit, as what
are the objects we look eye present, due to distance, and in the middle of the day. In not
entirely convinced leaving the understanding from that is offered, and once understood the meaning
of the terms in which it is stated, should not be admitted to this class. Flawed ideas by an axiom
false, sort are all very different things than they are in themselves, and errors are much
more dangerous, as the most deceitful lies in understanding security.

§ III.

Propositions are too general.

If we were known the essence of things, we could establish with respect to it proposals universal,
without any kind of exception, because the essence remains the same in all beings of the same
species, it is clear that what the one afirmásemos, would be equally applicable them all. But
as with respect to said essentially know little, and imperfectly, and often nothing is so common
there that can not speak of beings, but relation to the properties that are within our reach, and
often do not discern if they are rooted in the essence of the thing, or if they are purely accidental.
Tenders general suffer from this defect, because they express what we conceive and judge, can
not be extended but to what our spirit is known. Hence it is suffering thousand exceptions that
did not foresee, and perhaps find that it had made a rule that was
nothing more than the exception.

This happens even if a lot of work from one who sets general proposition,
what will be, if we look at the lijereza with which they are often
formed and issue?

§ IV.

Inaccurate definitions.

These can be said about the same as the axioms that serve as direct light perception and opinion,
and point of support to strengthen the intellect. It's about how difficult a good definition,
and in many cases impossible. The reason is obvious: the definition explains the essence of
the thing defined, and how do you explain what is unknown? Despite size disadvantage in all
sciences there a multitude of definitions that go currency which good law, and although it often
happens that authors rise against the definitions of others, they in turn take care of replacing
them with yours, that make move throughout the work by taking them based on their speeches.
If the definition is to be the explanation of the essence of the thing, and knowing this essence
is so difficult business, Why is being defined in such a hurry?

The target of the investigations is the knowledge the nature of beings, for the proposition
that explains this, it is that the definition, should be the last to issue the author. In the definition
is the equations with solving the riddle, and the resolution of the problems this equation is
the latest.

What we can clearly define it as purely conventional, because the nature of being conventional
is that which we give ourselves for the reasons that seem good. Thus, since it is not possible
in many cases set the thing, at least we should fix it what we mean when we talk about it,
or in other words, we should define the word with which we intend to express the thing. I do
not know what the sun does not know its nature; and therefore its
definition if you ask me, I can not give it.

But I know what I mean when I say the word sun, so be easy for me
to explain what she meant.

What is the sun? I do not know. V. What do the word sun?

The star whose presence brings day, and whose disappearance occurs at night. This naturally
leads me to misspelled words defined.

§ V.

Ill-defined words. Examination of the word equality.

In appearance nothing easier than to define a word, because it is very natural that whoever
employee knows what is said, and therefore can explain it. But experience shows If not, and very
few able to fix the meaning of the voices they use. Such stems from the confusion that reigns in
the ideas, and in turn helps to increase it. You can listen to each passing a heated dispute
in which the opponents expressed perhaps uncommon wit: let them give a hundred laps in order,
that are undertaken and rejected a thousand times, as enemies in a bloody battle, so if you
want you go through a mediator, and make palpable unreason of both, take the word that expresses
the capital object of the question, and ask each one, what means V. why? What gives meaning V.
to this word? I often pass The two adversaries will not know what to answer you, or pronouncing
certain expressions vague, disjointed, stating it clearly that you have left them suddenly not waited
for him flank attack, being perhaps the first time this deal, badly his will, to realize to themselves
the meaning of a word in fifteen minutes have used hundreds of times, and they were doing endless
applications.

But suppose this does not happen, and that each easily and quickly gives the explanation requested:
be sure you do not accept the definition of the other, and that the unconformity dealt with
before or seemed to be about the merits of the question, suddenly be moved to new ground engaging
dispute over the meaning of the word.

I have said or seemed to relate, because although it has been observed the turn of the discussion,
it will have missed seeing that under the name of the thing was hiding with Often the meaning of
the word.

There are certain voices that express a general idea, applicable to many different objects and senses
but several seem invented on purpose to confuse. All employed, all to realize themselves what they
mean, but everyone to his way, resulting a racket that hurts the good thinkers.

"Equality of men, said one speaker, is a law established by God himself. We are all born crying,
we all die sigh nature does not differentiate between poor and wealthy commoners and nobles,
and the religion teaches that all have the same origin and same fate. Equality is the work
of God, the inequality is man, only evil have been introduced in
the world that these terrible inequalities suffered by the human race;
only ignorance, and lack of sense of self-worth have been tolerated.

" Those words do not sound bad to the ear of pride and can not be
denied that in them something specious.

The man says capital errors and glaring truths, confuses those with
them; and seductive for the unwary speech, presented before the eyes
of a good thinker, a cacophony ridiculous.

What is the cause?

Take the word equality in very different ways, the application to
objects as far away as heaven and earth, and passed to a general deduction,
in whole security, as if without risk of mistake.

Do we want to reduce to powder as just said? Here's how we do it.

- What do V. for equality?

- Equality, equality .... is clear what it means.

- However, there will be more than V. tell us.

- Equality is that
one is neither more nor less than the other.

- But you see V. this
may be in very many ways, for two men six feet height are equal in
it, but it will be possible to be very unequal in others, for example,
if one is paunchy, as the governor of the island of Barataria, and
other dry of meat like Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance.

You two men may be equal or unequal in knowledge, virtue, nobility,
and a million other things, that we will be well before reach agreement
on the meaning that gives V. to the word equality.

- I speak of equality
of nature, this equality is established by the same breeder, whose
laws are powerless against men.

- This is not to V. say more but
that by nature all are equal ....

- Right.

- I, but I see that nature
does to a robust, to others weak, some beautiful, ugly to others,
to a flexible, dull to others, to wit a clear, silly to others, to
gives a peaceful inclinations, violent to others, to some .... but
it would never end if you wanted to list the inequalities that come
from nature itself.

Where is the natural equal to V. speaks?

- But these inequalities
do not take their equal rights ....

- Ignoring that V. has changed
completely since the state of the question, leaving or severely restrict
equality of nature, there are also disadvantages in that equality
rights.

Does it seem to V. if the child a few years is entitled to fight and punish his father?

- V. fakes absurd ....

- No sir, this and this requires nothing less than equal rights, if
not so be V. tell us what rights speech, which is meant equality and
what not.

- Well now clear is that we try to social equality.

-
There was V. it only, it is recent speech he spoke V. general and
in the most absolute, only cast a trench retreats V. in the other.

But going to social equality. This means that in society we must
all be equal.

Now I ask, what? What authority? Then there will be no government possible. What assets? Congratulations;
Leave aside justice and do the deal: after one hour, two players alijerado be one of the other pocket,
and will be uneven and, after a few days the industry will increase its capital, the slothful
will have consumed a portion of what received, and will fall in inequality.

Become a thousand times the cast, and a thousand times unevenly fortunes.

"In consideration? but do appreciate V. honored as both men the rascal? "Shall be deposited in
the trust as at that? Do you take care of themselves Metternich to
businesses that patan rudest?

And even when quiesese, could they all do it all?

- This is impossible, but it is not impossible is equality before the law.

- New withdrawn, new trench, here we go. The law says that contrary to suffer the penalty a thousand
real and Insolvency ten days in jail. The rich pay a thousand real and laughs at his crime, the
poor do not have a penny, to atone for his lack of bars inside. Where is equality before the
law?

- Well, I take away these things, and would establish penalties so that no outcome is never inequality.

-
But then would disappear fines, excise not inconsiderable budget gaps and relief of rulers.
You'll demonstrate to V. it is not possible in any assumption this
alleged equality.

Demos for a transgression that is marked is worth ten thousand real,
two men have engaged in it, and both have to pay, but one is wealthy
banker, the other a modest craftsman.

The banker makes fun of the ten thousand pieces, the artisan is ruined. Is it the same sentence?

-
Certainly not, but how would you have remedy?

- No way, and this is what I want to persuade you to V. that inequality
is a thing irremediable.

Demos that corporal punishment is, find the same inequality. The prison, exposure to public shame,
are penalties that the man void of education, and feeling of dignity,
suffering with tired indifference, but a criminal who belongs to a
certain Category prefer death a thousand times.

The punishment should be appreciated, not by what is in itself but for the harm caused to the patient
and the impression that affects you, because otherwise disappearance of the two ends of punishment:
the atonement and punishment. Then, the same penalty applied to criminals of different kinds,
but not equality in name, to pose monstrous inequality. Confess to V. that these problems are far
from hopeless, but we recognize these sad needs, and let us ponder equality impossible.

The definition of a word, and discern the different applications that
it could done, has brought us the advantage of reducing to nothing
a specious sophistry, and to demonstrate until the last evidence that
he or shown pompous nonsense, or not told us anything we did not know
in advance, as there is much discovery to announce that we are all
born and die the same way.

§ VI.

Free assumptions. The headlong.

In the absence of a general principle we sometimes an event that has no more truth and certainty
from which we grant. Where many systems to explain the phenomena of nature? In a gratuitous assumption
that the inventor of the system had to settle as well stone of the building. The greatest talents are
always exposed to this danger who strive to explain a phenomenon,
lack of positive data on its nature and origin.

An effect may have come from a myriad of causes, but not found Just knowing the truth that was
able to proceed, you must demonstrate that it has proceeded. If I hypothesis satisfactorily
explains a phenomenon I have in sight, I can admire it wit who invented it, but soon I shall
advance to the knowledge of the reality of things.

This habit of giving effect to a possible cause, saving the distance
from the possibility to reality, is more common than you think, especially
when the reasoner can draw on the coexistence or succession of events
that aims to link.

Sometimes, even awaiting to know if the fact that there really is
designated cause, enough to have been exist, and that its existence
could have the effect of which is intended to reason.

It has been found at the bottom of a cliff, the body of an acquaintance, the signals of the
victim clearly expressed that died falling down. Three assumptions can excogitating to account
for the catastrophe, a fall, a suicide, a murder. In all these cases, the effect is the same,
and in the absence of data can not be said to explain a more successfully than the other. Many
viewers are watching the disastrous scene; All are eager to discover the cause, cause that is
present the slightest hint, of course you will see born in abundance conjecture, and you will
hear the expressions "is true, so be it can not be otherwise .... as if he were watching ...
no witnesses, can not be proved at trial, but it is certainly not it.

"

And what are the signs? Some hours before finding the body, the unhappy was heading towards the
fatal spot, and there are some who saw I was reading some papers, which stopped from time
to time, and showed signs of restlessness.

For the rest is well known that the latter days had past troubles, and businesses from home were
very badly. All neighborhood saw in his face signs of grief and uneasiness. Case closed, this man has
committed suicide. Murder can not be, I was so close to home .... also that a murder not committed
in this way .... A calamity is impossible, because he knew very well the ground; and on the
other hand, was not precipitated nor men who walked with his eyes distracted. As the poor man was
harassed by his creditors, mail today due to receive a letter pressing and there will be more
able to resist.

- Come on, come on, answer as many, something clear and has V. reason,
is now fully Mail day ....

Comes the judge and the effect of instructing
the first steps, the full portfolio of the deceased.

- Two letters.

-
Did not I tell you ?.... the mail today !....

- The one is N. its
correspondent in the plaza N.

- Come, overall there had his trouble.

-
Says: "Sir, at this point I just got out of the proverbial reunion.

No missing remittent, but ultimately supported the NN friends, I got everyone entered in reason. For
now you can V. live in peace, and if your son V. I had the good fortune to restore therefore
any American business, these people will be provided to all, and keep V. his fortune and credit.
The details for the email immediately, but I believed that it should not differ a moment to
tell V. as satisfying news. Meanwhile, etc., Etc. "There is no reason Why kill yourself.

- The other ?....

- It is your son ....

- Bad news must bring ....

- Says: "My dear father, I have come to time, and a few hours of my
landing was broken trap

.