 The
evil companion, which is nothing to Socorro, the third siren retired, holds. Climb at the end
of the first in the cross of two branches; rises after another, applauding nymphs and encourage
with shouts of enthusiasm ...

But behold, Rubio, the lieutenant of the third, a man attested to their peers bold Gun and a
devastating genius for females, it occurs suddenly rear its bold head above a thicket. The nymphs, seeing
him, cry out and are petrified attitude in the surprise. Consuelo, from the top of the tree, he apostrophizes
violence. If your hand was immediately trasformaría deer that new Actaeon. Here, for between
ourselves, it is possible that a husband preferred to first transform it, without prejudice
go ahead on the classic metamorphosis ... But Rubio, the lieutenant of the third, known well the
value of these cries, and these apostrophes. Do not flinch, smile mischievously and called hoarsely
to their brothers in arms. What confusion, fear among those smiling daughters of forests to approach
their children in close column of Mars! No pick blankets, and gloves, and umbrellas, anything
short of what belonged flee and disband the forest screaming in terror. But the red pants
satyrs pursue them with a vengeance, are caught here and there and bring them captive in the midst
of hideous laughter. Meanwhile the poor Consuelo, and locked up the tree for three of these sylvan
voluptuous absolutely refuses to go down when not away at least fifty yards. They Cruel! denied. Pray
the nymph, irritated, is about to mourn, but not anger or get tears soften the hardened heart
of the infamous satyrs. Finally resigned to descend and, although it takes many precautions
castes, they fail to see a foot deliciously shoes and a leg birth makes them roar with delight.
But where is Rubio? Where is the most terrible and ferocious of them all? It is not known, but long after
leaving the woods dragging Socorro, the most sentimental of the sprites of D. Cristobal. In
the cruel features of his face is painted the expression of triumph, and in hers shame and submission
of a captive. Many hours later, the last of the night, sitting at a coffee table and surrounded
Marañón eight or ten of his colleagues, Lt. the third narrated with evil smile expiration of the
nymph, calculating at least in three or four who managed to steal kisses in different places
on his face sorcerer and all the sons of Mars cheered and celebrated with this new triumph
Homeric laughter of his heroic partner.

Finally, the winners were not too tyrants, and order was restored by the timely arrival of the
Miss de Mere, who were accompanied by Maria Josefa and Paco Gomez.

The authors and solely responsible for everything that had drawn the bottom of the chest. Carmelita
Alepin wore a dress of black silk that came to light only in large occasions, whereas Nuncita
and therefore had fewer years and respectability, could wear a suit clear with embroidered flowers,
as only seen in pictures of the last century. Were happy eyes brimming with satisfaction,
but the legs did not respond to that eternal youth their hearts, walking paths relying on crutches
and with his free hand holding the arms of their escorts. They were received with cheers and hurrahs.
It also heard some Family tired phrases, such that no more than blessed to Meré indulged and
laughed. That's why the teasing had little merit. Ever there was a case of seeing them angry
with friends, and that some slipped in together until reaching quite a few times to rudeness.
On the other hand were very prone to internal strife, that is, to chafe each other, but we
know how long these masses stopped.

The reckless spirit of Lieutenant Rubio, crowded by circumstances engendered an idea most happy,
to wit: that to better spend the time until dinner time to be constructed
a swing, where the ladies could enjoy the happiness of a few moments
to shake off the diaphragm, and to provide them knights gallantly
moving the unit.

Said and done: the search strings, a table saw, in less than a quarter of an hour is all over.
Rubio, while carrying out, it is still expressive wink to his companions, including, smiling,
silent, deeply admired, as always, boldness and penetration of Lieutenant of the third. Already tied
the swing. Who is first? All show the same shame, her cheeks flushing same. One would think
wickedly propose Nuncita try it out. The others applaud the idea. Resists Nuncita terrified. Carmelita
or grant nor denies permission. Instances are repeated endlessly. The young men find the idea
increasingly original. Finally, almost by force, between the frantic applause of the circle, Cuervo,
the Herculean ensign of the first, lifted the girl in his arms and sits on the table.

- Hold on tight, Nuncia! - Paco Gómez yells, while the lieutenant said, and some other friends
start rocking.

- Soft, soft! - Carmelita exclaims.

Do not worry, they do so because they fear to find her on the ground.

But even moving the swing sparingly, the air gets up, before long,
the skirts of the old maid.

The officers laugh and push the swing to make it look more.

- Strong, strong, that something is caught! - Paco Gómez yells.

The girls, between laughing and ashamed, cover their faces and hug
each other saying word in the ear.

- Stop, stop! - Carmelita exclaims
you .-- Stop!

Nobody pays any attention.

Girl's clothes are going up, up: do not know where they're going
to stop.

- Stop, stop!

By God, sir, Lieutenant!

- Go with it! - Roar the military.

And the swing is ever more lively. Nuncita is so scared she has no time to think in the assault.

- Lord Lieutenant!

Captain Lord! - Carmelita trembling cries, waving arms, lower jaw toothless, beating against
the superior, toothless, too, with a shudder .-- particular Captain, Please God! For the Virgen
del Amor Hermoso! ... Stop! Stop! ... Stop!

- Sooo! - Paco exclaims.

But the captain is Swedish and is pressing.

Nuncita petticoats are already in the most where they can reach high peak. The girls are back
again, some are laughing to hide among the trees. Only when they had accomplished their work
of shamelessness was achieved deferred and that officers would enable Nuncita to land. His sister,
instead of being angry with the guilty, the embarks with her rage-filled, vibrating beams from
his eyes.

- Get out, naughty! Scandalous! Is that the education that you learned from your parents? Is it
So what I advised the confessor?

Nuncita, terrified, he begins to pout and drop the key of tears. Youth male, like female, try to
calm the enraged Carmelita. Captain and the ensign throw all the blame upon himself. It is
in vain.

The anger does not turn off until it While downloading offensive words and heavy. The poor girl,
sitting on the floor, sobbing, with his face buried in his hands, excited the compassion of all those
present, who never cease intercede for her.

The question is which one has to get into the swing later. Nothing pleases natural. How should
they be left swinging by men so bold and shameless? Military is in vain countrymen and explain his
conduct in the previous event and make an oath not to reoffend and be frugal and prudent, and
always orders the ladies. They do not trust. Especially Rubio Lieutenant inspires considering
a panic, and not without reason, as the soul from any lustful intrigue.

But the more hopeless they were, behold, Consuelo, dazed and determined little girl that had
recently been perched on a tree, talk to your ear to a partner and then forward and says,
in horror of his companions:

- I upload. You help me.

A scream of excitement greeted these simple words. For a few moments there was no more Consuelo
to live! Consuelo alive! the crowd frenzied. No one is unwilling to help and who does not fill
them with flowers and entertainment. The lieutenant athletic, with a gesture of chivalry, put
one knee and asks her to freeze her foot on his thigh.

The intrepid young is not to pray and run it, sitting in a jump in the table. The same military the
promise countrymen happy and change each other looks of intelligence, determined to break his word and
pay the trust of the girl with the blackest treason. But when they were about to kick off their evil
work by pushing the device does sign Consuelo his partner. It moves forward with a handful
of pins and in a moment he turns on the petticoats underneath, so there is no way that you see
or even toe throw a flying swing. Female sex crazy applauds enthusiastically.

- Well, Consuelo! Good!

The masculine, angry and sulky, dare not, however, to protest loudly, but murmurs that lack of
confidence, while interested, proud of its occurrence, looks on with a mocking smile. The
misery was complete. The Alfileritos obtained a success so flattering that there was no girl who
ascend to the device that fails to take sewing clothes previously with them.

While such memorable scenes were made in the forest, Jaime Moro, disdaining the pleasures countryside,
had been catechize Fray Diego and D. Juan Estrada-Rosa to take a
tresillito.

Was bored in church, was bored in the forest in the city and the countryside. Recovered only serenity
of mind and was reborn in him calm and happy when I took the cards hand. As luck would be of hardship.
There were no cards in the house. But why is not afraid. Down to the kitchen, separate calls to
a servant, who seemed lighter and muscular, and giving tip instructs it to go full speed into
the city and bring a pair of Barajitas. While therefore, not to escape it, make mighty efforts
to entertain their peers, speaking of what else may be interested, especially to Don Juan, who expressed
trends strongly marked to desert, tempted by the idea absurd for a walk in the fifth and make
a visit to the mill and other guests.

Moro was sweating with fear of not being able to grief resist until the return of the servant.
Fortunately it arrived on time. As he had in his possession the coveted decks and was another
man. Sure of victory by dragging them to one room removed from the mansion, it is appropriate
to bring a table, candles, beer, cigarettes, and we there! ... Having been to lose two fingers,
Jaime Moro enjoyed that happiness with a noisy joy it caused envy.

A good crowd of people ridiculous without imagination enough to understand, or taste the sweetness
the triplet, was gone, retired to the head, to travel and visit possession after new mill
that the earl had ridden a short time ago. They formed the party, among others, the boyfriend,
the captain himself Núñez, with those of their less favorable female, Garnet, D. Enrique Valero,
Saleta, Manin and a few others. The count was not could drag because he was not found. It said
he was giving orders to the servants and monitoring some works far away, but was not found
either in them. One foreman was doing there steward or medium provided to serve as a guide.

The
farm was situated on the gentle slope of the hill where it is established Lancia. Behind the
house is the forest, depriving him of sight in the city. So to be so close it seems to be a
hundred miles of it, in the kind of loneliness field.

At the same time protect against the winds of North and West, leaving only open to the mild
and beneficent streams coming from the south and east. Fail up there
the sounds of the population.

Only the cathedral bells ring true sweet hour muffled by distance. The main road is behind the
forest. Another little girl, who starts it, puts it in communication with the fifth. No is in
this, as we know, no English park or French, or garden, or waterfalls,
caves or artificial.

It is a half of recreational land, half of work.

First forest, then the house with his run, then a vast and neglected garden, then meadows immense
that extend along the foot of the hill and come to the river and
still saved and swell on the opposite shore.

For these grassland is grazing cattle, you hear their bells and the barking of dogs. It is easy
to forge the illusion of being within solitary nature. Peace is deep and only interrupts the
song of a bird or the lowing of a cow.

Hikers walked the blocks, which were well cared for, as the count had love of farming. However, Saleta
said the Netherlands had seen much better.

- Go figure, gentlemen - said with his characteristic Galician accent - there to cows were
tied with a rope tail, you know? and have it suspended so that when given the desire to provide
what can be done without getting dirty.

This news, rigorously accurate, it burst out laughing to the present.

- But this D. Ramon when they tire of inventing nonsense! - They said to each other under his
breath, all because of that damned liar reputation it had acquired.

- Pue atrazaiyo eztán well in Holland, a friend Zaleta - Valero said that would not let him
go a .-- In Manchester, when a cow he wants from ezo, ze Zientara him in a toilet and ze the sewage
treatment clean with toilet paper.

Saleta took no offense. I was so accustomed to the disbelief of his audience, although now bursting
with impatient really not not believe him.

When they had walked the blocks took the way of the cross-country meadows, and fell trimmed down
to the river, for both of the banks, alder, poplar and willow, which were here and there a
bush thick below which ran dark and gloomy. Lora is a river of the less abundant and at the same
time the most original of Spain. Before arriving the sea, "which is death," as the poet said,
is arranged to give plenty of laps as a wily old intended to mock the common law created beings.
Impossible to imagine an extravagant runway. Exits any very determined and booming population,
looks set to swallow the leagues and fearless go to the ocean.

But on the fourth of a league repents turns and slow and slouched back near the point of departure,
which suggests a some, not without foundation, walking uphill. Out again, not by choice, but pressed
by circumstances, this time out of sight, the whole world believes to be really never to return.
Not so, however. The big fox, when he understands that he no longer seen from the village, very
underhanded toss and again tries to get him, but he ashamed, and
before coming away a bit, it goes to a village near the same council.

Never pursued a career frank and open. Like all characters discounted, repugnant light, uses
every situation to slip under a rock or a bush and hide the gaze of men and remain stuck there,
rotting in degrading idleness. No one is wary of him. With its appearance of old and rheumatic
invalid, unable to take a step, has misled many shepherds. Invites you to swim into thinking
they do not have half a yard background, and then chokes miserably among its green waters. There
will be within breaking beauty of celestial nymphs swimming with their fragile alabaster arms
crystals, not to leave at night to play on her lymph the graceful mermaids, blond-haired. Lora
river is silent, enemy of all poetic idealism. Nothing fantastic beings. The fed only true
love is a swarm of frogs, so big that causes vertigo thinking how many of them live under its protection.
They are in charge of cheer with her melodious voice the places he travels.

They were also prevented with deafening noise that they Saleta could argue, as later claimed
that they were away, that being on the banks of Yumurí one afternoon, he had the kill with one stone
a crocodile. True that under the gaze of his insistent Valero colleague was quick to correct stating
that the crocodile was still a puppy and had no more than a run of teeth.

Continued good stretch the margin Shady Lora and crossed by a rustic bridge the place where the
earl had bled through a ditch, to move to his mill. But at that point, friends of the groom,
genuine representatives of the element more vigorous and masculine battalion, they suddenly
wake up the feeling of muscular strength and power of his legs. A lieutenant jumps the ditch.
A captain, not be less than the subordinate does too, but wet feet. Excited-esteem, takes off
his coat and goes again with happiness.

The others imitate. Instantly making that the appearance of the Olympic Games and still more
of the great American batuda.

But Núñez is an outstanding jumping. That was long known throughout the army and more particularly
in the infantry weapon.

Jumped three or four times with ease, but, wanting, as Of course, overcome their gallant comrades
and give proof of his skill, says in a tone dismissive "that is worth nothing" and that he is
able to jump the ditch, turning the back. These words were received with respect by his colleagues,
but also silence that the captain struck him doubtfully. And without
further ado resolve confused.

Does not shed only one item of uniform, this is for newbies, takes
flight, and arriving the water's edge turns and jumps, but with such
bad luck that your feet get tangled rushes in and falls back as long
as it was in the middle of the stream.

Is hidden from sight of his friends for a while, and finally out
snorting and splashing like a real triton saying that there is nothing
and it will jump again to display.

But his father- does not consent. I ran my hands through the body to make sure it's draft (how
had to be!) and dam of insane excitement, he who had only recently been exterminated in full to all
the militia, began to shout:

- It is necessary to move! ... Right now! ... A pneumonia!

... Moving! ... Friction! ... A rheumatic fever!

And other exclamations more or less consistent, which gave testimony to the keen interest health officer
inspired.

Nunez, though a warrior, yields to his request and returns to the house to face fierce grimly,
determined to be removed entirely to socks and go to bed while Lancia is sent by itself to a
mute.

All your friends around you, and so come to the house.

Emilita, which is the balcony, seeing them in that guise, she asked
with surprise:

- What is that?

- Nothing - her dad yells, - that
Nunez has fallen into the ditch.

Naturally Emilita hearing this heartbreaking cries out and falls fainting into the arms of several
ladies. Nunez, a hero, despising their own health, run to her rescue. In a few moments fills the
room with glasses of water and also come to light two or three bottles of antispasmodic. When he begins
to regain consciousness and reach the turning point of tears, her sister Micaela can not be contained,
violently scolds his dad.

- This has been a real barbarity! Have you figured that her daughter has a heart bronze? ... Well
little finesse is needed to hurt this way to a poor creature ...

The poor creature that defense pays a loving look in his eyes wet, squeezing while hand. The
retiree is in the last stage of depression and just dare to murmur "that live Núñez seeing
his side so there was no reason for fright." The Micaela ladies judge
that has been disrespectful to his father, but at the same time can
not least agree that what has been a bullet, and manifest the unhappy
wife an ardent sympathy.

VIII

Fernanda wine.

Fernanda had not witnessed
any of this. It was first thing in the forest, making bashful nymph
like her classmates, but soon tired of the paper, turned away from
them and began to think for the most solitary places. His head, as
always upright, bent under the weight of boredom or worry, its flexible
size, undulating, moving without a compass spinning to and fro like
a drunken man's body, dragged his eyes on the ground, those beautiful
African eyes were the most precious ornament of the noble city of
Lancia, and his face pale crossing a very deep wrinkles, a sign of
fixed and painful thought. Had much tortured for two months! The impression
that loves the Count had left in his soul, choked at first by the
pride, hope to return to them, had dilated suddenly to discover the
secret of their diversion, had burst into her, had filled and burned
all the love and jealousy. They were all the more harsh as he clearly
saw Luis had been cheating long time, he had pretended he loved and
to love when another. The miserable betrayal of the revolted Amalia,
inspired him with horror and disgust, but the Count, had to admit
it, the pain pierced his passion and was further widened