 Moreover, the very idea touring
America under such flattering auspices Alhague me greatly, and lit my ardent imagination, offering
pre-thousand pictures each as attractive. Merced to the benevolent advice of Messrs. Cuvier,
Brongniart, Cordier, Isidore Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, and the famous traveler Baron de Humboldt, I was
given a glimpse of what would be the circle of my research. The natural sciences were the
main object, but seen as complementary indispensable geography, ethnology and history, I decided not
to discard anything, when were in those places, to bring me the most complete treasury of material
relating to these important branches of human knowledge.

On July 29, 1826 in Brest, I embarked on board of the Meuse, frigate of the State, and gave first to
my transatlantic pilgrimage. I stop in the Canaries, where for several days I study, in sight
of the famous peak of Teide, the productions of the island of Tenerife, and their ragged peaks.
Two months later we could see the coast of Brazil, and environment embalmed with the perfume
of a thousand flowers arrived and to me, making me like ineffable and sweet emotions. I was going
to throw after standing on the world of Columbus, on that ground wonders, as he had always
longed for exploration in the midst of the dreams of my childhood. Finally took a seat in America
for eight years.

The Rio de Janeiro with its mountains of granite and its beautiful and unspoiled forests was the
first theater of my explorations. Montevideo, Maldonado, and all the Eastern Republic of Uruguay,
busy So by the Brazilians, then showed me their fields, which are similar to those of France.
I went across the Banda Oriental to Buenos-Aires, and then I embarked on the Parana, to transporting
to the borders of the province of Paraguay, today declared an independent state. Subi as three
hundred and fifty leagues for this immense river, whose current is majestic hope that some day
will crisscrossed by hundreds of boats, which driven the steam will rise up Chiquitos, making
communication more immediate in Bolivia with Europe.

The waves of this mighty river, which has more than a mile wide, running
over a bed and innumerable islands whose shores are adorned with colorful
boscages, where the graceful entretege their foliage palm tree with
the most varied and beautiful.

I walked for a whole year all parts of the province of Corrientes and Misiones, and after having
entered the Gran-Chaco, turned around by the provinces of Entre Rios and Santa Fe. Back to Buenos-Aires,
I wanted to aim for a Chile or Bolivia, but calculating how difficult it would cross the continent
to be sure, by the turbulence, after the peace with Brazil, undermining that state, I decided
to go to Patagonia, land mysterious, whose name alone locked up then
I know not that magical.

I was transported for there to the end of 1826, and stayed there for eight months.

I made my first research with fairly calm, for it was the most painful go one of the most arid
country, and where water shortage is felt at every step in the heart of these monotonous and endless
deserts, but the Indians Puelches Aucas and Patagones unexpectedly revolted against the rising colony
of Carmen, located on the banks Black River, and I saw then compelled to meet its inhabitants to
cooperate to the defense common. Having returned for a second time to Buenos-Aires, I found
this country in such a complete anarchy, , recognizing the absolute impossibility of passing through
the pampas to Chile, took the game round Cape Horn. Upon my arrival to Valparaiso found also to
the republic Chilean in a state of agitation anything suitable for scientific voyages, and then
provided the recommendations of the consul general of France in this
State, I went to Bolivia, whose government should I expect a warm
welcome, and the means to continue my exploration mainland.

Cobija, Bolivia port, greeted me of course with the impressive appearance of the mountains the
crown. Shortly after I landed in Arica for beginning to my journeys by land. Leaving the coast
soon, I went to Tacna, and then began my ascension to the ridges on the road and Tacora Palca, but
instead of tripping over there with those steep and sharp ridges, which are figured on the
maps, I found myself on a very extensive plain, placed at a height of four thousand five hundred
yards above sea level, and which only became aware of a few moles here and there cloud-covered cone. Crossing
this exalted level, I came to meet then at the top of the chain of Chulluncayani. Contemplating
from there the very extensive extension that unfolded before my eyes, and so large variety of objects
that looks amounted to dominate the time, I savored a sense of indefinable admiration. It is true
that most picturesque landscaping are found in the Pyrenees and the Alps, but never saw these
look so great and so much majesty. Plain Bolivia, which has more than thirty miles wide, you dilated
at my feet by right and left out of sight, offering only small parallel ridges, which seemed to
fluctuate the ocean like ripples on the vast plain, where the north-west horizon and the Southeast
did not meet me to discover, while they looked towards the north shine above of the hills that
limited, some areas of the crystalline waters of the famous lake Titicaca, the mysterious home
of the children of the sun. On the other side of such a sublime set could see the severe symptoms,
which form the vast curtain of the Andes, interrupted with peaks acute, representing the exact
shape of a saw. Between these heights are raised the Guaina Potosi, Illimani and Sorata snowy
cone showing her oblique and flattened, these three giants of American forests, which are drawn
glowing snow, above the clouds in the dark blue background of the sky more transparent and
beautiful in the world. Towards North and South Eastern Cordillera is declining gradually until
completely lost on the horizon. If I had I felt full of admiration in the presence of Tacora,
here I was carried, and yet this was not only one of the faces in that picture, because back
towards the other hand, showed me a set of not less attractive. I discovered even the Chipicani,
the Tacora, and all the mountains of western plain, which had just transpose, and on which my
eyes had been arrested many times during the three days of my traffic of the Cordilleras.

I went to the Bolivian plains situated even at the height of four
thousand yards above sea level, and that is the most populated of
the republic.

I came to the city of La-Paz, the former Choquehapu (Gold country), named for its abundance
of this metal mines, gave the Aymara. This valley favored by the proximity of the Yungas, which is
three thousand seven hundred lifting beam, holds to the same time all the fruit markets of the
countries cold, the temperate and torrid zone. Immediately wrote to the government, forwarding my
letters of recommendation. In response he offered me his protection, and funds if needed, also
proposes a military officer and two youths to accompany me. Not wanting to abuse of such generous
offers, I accepted, with the greatest gratitude, only the last two and transportation facilities throughout
the republic, and from that moment, I considered and sure you can go with this beautiful and rich
fruit of the American continent.

Eager to see the province of Yungas, which they said to me many wonders,
dirijíme to Palca, and once placed on the summit of the Cordillera
Oriental, I was dazzled so by the majesty of the whole, which certainly
did not see but the vast extension without to realize the details.

It was no longer a snowy mountain that I thought to grab, no was a wide plain, cloudless and
without active vegetation .... Everything was different here. Turning towards the side of La-Paz
still sailing the arid mountains and the sky is always pure, typical the high plains. Everywhere,
at the level where I was, clad heights ice and snow, but what a contrast by the side of the
Yungas! Until five or six hundred yards below me, upholstered in green velvet mountains, and that seemed
reflected in clear skies and calm to this point, a border of white clouds, representing a vast
sea battering the flanks of the mountains, and above which rise to all highest peaks, appearing
islets. When the clouds parted, I discovered a unfathomable depth below this zone, the limit
of vegetation on, the green dark blue of the virgin forests that adorn everywhere so rugged
terrain. Full of joy at being surrounded by nature, so different from the one I had submitted
the western slopes and plains of the mountain, I want first to hide under this canopy of clouds,
a few moments to roam freely over the region of thunder.

I visited on Yanacachi, Chupi, Chulumani Irupana, etc., Alternately passing the riverbed to the top
of the mountains. The pompous vegetation of Rio de Janeiro you go away reproduced in these sites,
but with more splendor in a warm moisture encourages them even on the most rugged rocks, plants
prodigious.

After having studied in detail this province, so rich in production, followed by the same western
side, crossing uneven terrain, but rich in silver mines in the provinces of Sicasica and Ayupaya,
through Cajuata, Suri, Inquisivi, and Palca Cavaria to climb the mountain again east, where
my eyes fell suddenly, to a few thousand feet, on the rich valleys of Cochabamba and Clisa. What a singular
contrast with that of the cliffs where I was! It was the image of chaos next to the largest peace:
it was the nature sad and silent in the presence of more vibrant life. I saw it in the midst
of barren hills two extended plains cultivated and trimmed on all sides of huts and groves,
among which were distinguished large number of villages, and a great city to which we excel their
buildings as a queen among his vassals. Nothing can effectively compare to the sensation that
produces the appearance of these plains, covered with villages, plantations and culture, circumscribed
by a mountainous and barren nature, extending to more thirty leagues around the horizon lost confused.
One would think there's see promised land within the wilderness. If I ever tried had vivid
impressions presence of the beauties of that savage nature Boliviano great plain, and Eastern Cordillera,
where life does not fit all in all, it is nothing there regarding the man, they would not be
much higher, finding these places I animated, these buildings strewn plains, these rich fields
abound that aroused in my mind the image of my country!

Cochabamba and its surroundings were for a time the theater of my research, continuing then my
march towards the east, walked through a hundred miles of mountains quite dry, but cut of fertile
and deep valleys. During this journey I recognized on the provinces of Clisa, Mizque and the Valle
Grande, following the path of Punata, Pacon, Totora, Chaluani, Chilon, Pampa Grande and Samaypata
(the bench rest), the last inhabited place in the mountains of which only thirty leagues were
far from the fertile plains of the continental center.

Few days Later it was discovered, the top of the slope of Flask, the extended horizon of a flat hot
covered with forests, in whose center is granted the quiet town of Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra.

The study of this remarkable city and its contours occupied my attention for several months: past
them, I resolved to penetrate deeper in the lands inhabited. I was already as to three hundred
leagues from the sea, but also longing to know the pure populations Indians, I turned my place
on the east, towards the province of Chiquitos, atrevasando the Monte Grande, whose thick foliage
covers an area of ??more than sixty leagues, where vain Guests will seek out other savage animals.

Chiquitos Province, placed in the center of the Americas, has over ten and eight thousand miles
in area, and being very fertile their land, it can be grown all the fruits of the hot countries,
while in the mountains of Santiago could sown wheat and planted vines. I visited on San-Javier, Concepcion,
San-Miguel, Santa Ana, San-Ignacio, San-Rafael, San-José and Santiago, and just came to find
on these mountains in the spring of those regions.

While the hot sun toasted the surrounding plains, some charities clouds perched on top of the
mountains, had operated a total change in the appearance of nature. The trees were covered in a
sweet variety of foliage and flowers, the countryside luxuriously deployed its exquisite ropages.
Absolutely nothing could compare the beautiful station in Europe to a certain moment in the
torrid zones.

In France, for example, the leaves are sprouting little by little, and the cold and lack of
beautiful days are often feel even after late spring. In places, this is but the change Suddenly
a decoration. Nature is dead, lifeless, a very pure sky field illuminates a sad and almost deserted,
but a downpour occurs, and to the point, as charm, all things take a new life. Requires only
a few days for glazing Meadows greenery and fragrant flowers, and trees coated with these tender
green leaves, or with the flowers that precede them, giving to each one of them a bright color and smooth.
If the countryside flaunting their beautiful carpet, embalmed the air with perfumes softer, forests
have less other non-flattering beauty and variety. Here a tree laden with long clusters purple
contrasts with the glasses, and sky, and the purest gold, there stands a snow-white summit
meeting to more tender pink. I climbed with much rejoicing by those slopes, where vegetables
are so beautiful façade, with its jewels, or walked the meadows without knowing which site to
give preference, as each of them offered me a charm it was particular, a different type. I confess
that I never felt so amazed in the presence of the beauties of the ground covered by a canopy so splendid.

Leaving
very soon the little town of Santiago, and through immense forests and the river of Tucabaca, probably
intended to deliver rich gold mines, arrived at Saint-Heart, which is the easternmost point
of the inhabited places of the republic. Holy Heart was actually end that part of the world because
no one could then spend more later. So Therefore, calculating the massive benefits that would
result from the navigation of the Paraguay to commercial traffic and to the civilization of
the province of Chiquitos, and longing to be the first instrument of this giant, picked up all
possible data of indigenous used to traverse the forests, and I open
a way towards the ruins of ancient Holy Heart, where the river runs
Oxuquis, consisting of rivers and Tucabaca San-Rafael, reaching to
make sure that the high steep banks of this stream could provide,
in all seasons port and comfortable hotel within walking distance
of the Paraguay River, which flows a bit above the fort of New-Coimbra.

In 1831, these important data communicated to the government of Bolivia, making him see the positive
change that for the province and the whole republic would result in a new way of communication,
by the Rio de la Plata, the Atlantic Ocean.

Eager to explore another point of Chiquitos, through beautiful forests in the mission I set San-Juan,
and returned at once to San-Javier, where I also said goodbye to departed the province, after
six months I had dedicated to his study.

Amid the vast and gloomy forests that separate the vast provinces of Chiquitos and Moxos, and a large
complex, which is indicated in our best maps and unknown runs a navigable river but also ignored:
this river is the San-Miguel. Its banks covered of vegetation as luxurious as active, are inhabited
by a remarkable nation, such Guarayos are, they do in America, for their open hospitality and customs
quite simple and primitive, the poetic dream of a golden age. Among these men of simple nature, who
never tormented jealousy, theft, this moral plague grossest civilizations
as the more refined, it is not known.

If some I had often longed to lie in the abandonment seeing magnificent countryside, while
Europe so many unhappy peasants perish in misery, how much more acute sense should not be my
in the presence of those places, the most abundant that I had found
until then, and wherein a prodigious nature, and a special class of
vegetation, it seems be asking to use arms to come through the crop
producer!
