 Siguiéronse prison without halting its secretary, Fermin Aguirre, sugeto Spanish and
not of common birth, who for the ambitious fantasy of having appointed Viceroy of that province,
embraced the seditious party, and others who were decorated with several titles, to divide the
husband of the four that had been proposed rule: and exhalation as a visiting its troops commanded
all near the village, at two miles away, who managed to secure to the other accomplices of the
mob. So, afternoon were 100 inmates in the prisons of the main and most had distinguished
themselves in this conspiracy. Were taken by the commander after all precautions and Orders convenient
to make a sorpesa, and those required to resist the rebels, if they tried to invade the town, as stated,
to liberate their leaders. Placed double advanced guard, chose the church to make a last stand, ordered
rounds, appointed patrol, ordered the accuracy of the service, and increased their vigilance and
care in proportion increasing their risk. Militia called Suipacha people, who were by the King
and Tarija, reinforcing the few relics that had remained faithful, and before unfair that they
could recover the terror instilled by arms of the Sovereign, the resolution of that operation,
the unexpected imprisonment of their leaders, and of all the circumstances action as occurring
in particular, named items to avoid the damage that followed on all bounds of the province that were
moved, and that the rebels committed atrocious cruelties, forcing the inhabitants to come fugitives
Spanish, to welcome the shadow of the newly arrived troops. Diary was helpless widows and orphans
afflicted, that by abandoning their farms, and home comforts, they met in Tupiza to Commander
exposes his sufferings, with the loss of his parents, husbands and property which I had taken
the rigor of tyrants, aggressors, who egercitaron their barbarism, with more excess elsewhere in the
minerals we took, Ubinas, Tatasi, Portugalete and Great Chocalla, insulting to the priests, desecrating
the temples, and committing the most sacrilegious deaths in them, large theft, shattering the
mills, and destroying the work mine. Reseguin Oíales affably, consoled them all with tenderness,
and looking ofrecíales for them, as a parent beneficial for their children, promised to restore
them their property, and shed the last drop of blood in its defense, and for such a just cause.

The
sedition of this province had some circumstances, which is more frightening to the general that
undergoes in Peru, and could have given much care, unless it been cut so timely progress. The principal
author and head of her, Luis Laso de la Vega, was caste cholos, more Spanish than Indian,
and was serving sergeant as those militias, whom was accompanied
by a bold and some special genius that they made a distinction between
his own.

This wicked, favored by the mayor, D. Francisco Garcia de Prado, corresponded to his benefactor
with the greatest ingratitude, forging this plot, to usurp the command of the provinces of
Chichas, Lipes, Cinti and Porco, taking advantage of fermentation that had caused the edicts
and measures of main commissioners Tupac Amaru rebels, and other movements, which also forced
the mayor to collection of some ammunition, and to assemble in Tupiza militia regiment of that name, cholos
and mestizos compound, which served Laso, who was called to his ambitious and daring thoughts,
March 6, taking the spot of the journal, to touch the spirits of his fellow soldiers, who were
soon to be seduced, and shaking the reins of obedience, began dictating to them how excesses
will and suggested to the leader egemplo which followed the Indians and the village surrounding, growing
in such turmoil acceleration, which disappointed Prado of any fruit they produced their persuasion
and authority, had no recourse but to seek asylum in his house with some of their own. Besieged
in Laso it with a flood crowd, vainly tried to break his horse sometimes favorable than it
had to be on the run and run the risk that at moments grew, but their efforts were useless watching
to find out, decided to defend until ultimately favored the doors and windows of your house, from
where it started to fire at the crowd that had surrounded him, which made the same way; lasting
the confusion until midnight, when dead and some other tired and weak to continue the defense,
the rebels managed to burn down the house, and blow up the spare powder that had collected for
munitions that troop, and dropped a canvas wall penetrated to corral the Indian Nicolas Martinez,
and found her dazed in a corner mayor, approached to him and promptly beheaded him, and he drank
much of his blood. Could have been saved if undertaken in advance would escape, as well as
advising some sugetos intentioned, but it was less sensitive die than abandon their interests acquired
at the expense of general discontent, which put him in that state and situation.

After the assailant released the death of his mayor and others who accompanied him, entered
the rebels at home, inasmuch as it had been ransacked, and during the night made many excesses
and disorders in the population and its surroundings, as in the estate of Salo, where Indians
encouraged by the example of Tupiza, plotted against its owner, D. Paxsi Salvador, whom was beheaded
and captured the substantial assets she possessed: through which and others of like nature,
Laso rid of that could cause sugecion sugetos, and now free from this obstacle, he thought
only the domain to ensure that proposed. It headlined Governor and Captain General of that province
by Tupac Amaru, by issuing without loss of time, his secretary Aguirre,
circulars and announcements for all the jurisdiction in which ordered,
under the severe penalties, join him to contribute to the defense
common, shake the misrule and oppression in which the magistrates
had placed the customs, excises and other branches of finance, again
established.

The parish priest of villa, Dr. D. José Dávalos, tried to dissuade them from the principles
and quiet, using the most humble supplications and efficient trades, but did not get more than
permission to give burial to the bodies, whose diligence practiced with the greatest piety, was
not enough to contain such tensions, which lost the obedience and respect to justice, they soon
also lost in the Lord's house, entering it as a portion riotously Indians filled with rage, they
dug up the corpse of Prado, and cut off his head, took the audience de la Plata, as declared
some, or his Inca, according deposed others. The truth is, the Indian governor of the town of
Santiago de Cotagaita, who had remained loyal to the center of the rebellion, sought and gave
him burial in the church its people with all due solemnity, and turned to the Indians that led
to suffer the punishment he justly deserved such a criminal offense, but this example, neither the
repeated measures practiced by some neighbors honest, prevented all parties submit to pay obedience
to the usurper, the chiefs, governors, second and curacas, ensuring support their ideas to sacrifice
their lives and property for freedom.

Such was the state in which they were those provinces, when the commander D. José Reseguin
came to them with their small number of troops. The weight of such grave care, and the crowd
obstacles he encountered and that at times were increased, were not enough to stop him nor
to intimidate, rather, knowing how convenient it was not losing a moment in such Occasionally,
immediately gave the highest activity to the remedy of so many grown evil, constantly seeking
the most appropriate and effective remedies to prevent them. His work active, their spirit and
determination were undoubtedly the levees that held back the speed that ran the progress of
the revolt, and those who put down the voracious flames had begun to burn with too much violence, stirred
by the sweet enticing offerings that promised freedom to the edicts of Tupac-Amaru, scattered by the
commissioners in all parties, which did not fail to penetrate to the hearts of the inhabitants of
the province of Tucuman, whose natives were beginning to be available to support the troubles gladly
Tungasuca raised in Chayanta and having no qualms about publicly
expressing what a pleasure they would be the domain of an owner who
claimed freedom from oppression that were considered.

On March 18 received the first specifications of the commander D. Ignacio Flores, which communicated
the happy success which he had Punilia the attack, news of which had acquired Reseguin few
hours earlier by some voices vague, but before long the exhilaration of such disturbed important
to notice, because the same evening he learned from D. Juan Domingo de Reguera, which was presented
clerical dress, Gold fugitive wit, it was Pedro de la Cruz Condori Main Indian people Challapata
Chayanta province and Governor of the Cerrillos General entitled Tupac-Amaru, with more than
4,000 rebels who were being treated and obeyed with the greatest veneration. Representing a
lot of authority, adorned with the insignia corresponding the supposed character, speaking with
integrity, have manifested the spirit and resolution, with some ability to perform the command
obtained, and premeditated attack Tupiza to free the criminals who were imprisoned in their
jails. He added, that three Indian brothers, names, one of Tupac-Amaru, and the two remaining
Damaso and Nicolas Catari, had entered some villages, ensuring personages were pretending, and
that the natives without further examination, and obeyed blindly following them, with who had
assembled a considerable body, able to overcome the efforts of the few neighbors fair, which had been
held by the King until then in some populations, those which abandoned hastily, afraid of death
and forced the terror instilled by those tyrants everywhere, with killings, robberies and outrageous
excesses. Major Tax of this series of calamities, and it was very convenient saves in its principles,
or persuaded with the delay or increase would take more circumspection and authority the new leaders,
making every moment of greatest strength, saliesen arranged to meet him three detachments, composed
of veteran troops and militia, who arrived by different paths at once the spot where he was camped
Condori Pedro de la Cruz, he attacked the agreement and seek capture. Indeed came to his view, as
they had been prevented, and recognizing the short number of men presented to them, looked with great contempt,
and advancing with few of their own, to talk with the commander D. José Vila, Deputy Dragons
expedition, he proposed the boldest confidence to return, or is incorporated, because otherwise,
it would be a victim of the wrath of its people, it was known temerity to try otherwise the
sight of the forces that had present. Far from being intimidated this officer, whose bizarre
spirit credited after repeatedly throughout the time of the rebellion, he played was delivered,
and does not lead to that spilled the blood of those unfortunates who brought deceived. Whose
expressions, heard by one of the Indians who accompanied him, ordered the grave in action to fire
a stone at him which Alonso told by Messiah out of their own body, pulled a gun and the bullet
pierced the chest of the attacker before he had to implement its attempt begun. This unexpected
accident scared the others who accompanied Condori, and dazed undertook a hasty flight, to join
with more distant, between those who took the disorder, and inserted between all the confusion, which
usually causes the diversity of views, but did not think that the leak leaving in the hands of
his revered our general, who have been properly secured, continued to Great Chocalla in search of
three brothers who had the same fate, and sixth day departure, returned to Tupiza with all
these prisoners, full of glorious satisfaction and not a little pleased with some Spanish, because
they saw recovered much of the wealth they had usurped. He was also arrested at the same time the
deputy of that cure people, the degree D. Jose Vasquez de Velasco, owing to having been justified
accompanied to Condori in the cheers that were made of Tupac-Amaru, in the public squares
of doctrine, after having made the demonstration of blessing that rebel troops, begging favor
with the Almighty for the happiness of their weapons, and invited me to follow him to the
attack Tupiza than premeditated, contributing to the authority of his character to enact edicts
and spreading seditious letters which he used to stir the spirits, which are expressive of as follows:
-

Charter of the rebels.

Lord Chief WELL AS NATURAL SPANISH CREOLE MESTIZOS OF THE DOCTRINE OF SANTIAGO Cotagaita: -

Dear
Sirs .-- "With the greatest civility and attention which is due to humane treatment, make this
to Vds. as Governor-elect for these provinces, on behalf of MDS José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, Inca
King of this vast viceroyalty of Peru, and talking to you represent in his quality of ambassador,
I say: - That the order to which I have come to this province, and I write this, is, to know the
views and opinion of their wills in case to vassalage, which taking their consent, would which
deliberated Vds. party to that lean, and I warn its opinion: that is, if up to become vassals
under the banners of the King, whose piety and clemency tends to nothing more than to the preservation,
peaceful tranquility and comfort of all civilians, natural and mixed Spanish and Creole, and
other sugetos of any quality or condition, born in our lands, taking them out of the tax and
heavy yoke until the day we have underweight had so oppressed by the tyrannical government
of Spain, with her breasts unbearable, that did not seem anything other than a total servitude slavery,
like the captivity of Babylon, where the Jewish people of God, groaned. So having seen with mature
under all these reasons, in the name of God, our Lord, and after he referred in our Monarch, Inca,
rather invite them to come to peace and harmony than to make war. But if you call and ignoring
this sweet treat, we would like Vds. surprise, then undergo rigorous
punishment that prevents our Monarch in edict, which refer rather,
to point out, that are imposed Vds. purposes as holy and righteous
intentions leading untapped at this company.

And in the course Vds. and other key individuals that make up this
body, support this party proposed to them, shall be public and convenient
places, then read on tone sides and proclamation, so that all understand
and are commonly imposed on its content.

"We also make known to DVDs, so you do not live suspicious, misleading or confusing, as in this
Tatasi doctrine or Chocalla I have in prison, to apply the death penalty to certain bandits and outlaws,
who pretending to be commissioners of our monarch, Inca, and usurping several titles poachers,
committed many crimes of treachery and murder, and dragged many Spanish and mestizo residents
of several villages, as they are, Tolapampa, Ubinas, eastern Chocalla and others only brought the
evil to steal and his inordinate greed. Contemplating Unfortunately the story that runs through
here, that in the town of Santiago are dead Governor natural to her, and do not know what Spanish
Creole, to warn those natives egecutar are contained in these deaths, without authority or reason
of having committed, that does not command our pious monarch, but only to refute the bad government
to exterminate or expulsion of European magistrates, and armed all the Indians and Spanish
Creole defend him, if by any of the ports of this kingdom come upon armed soldiers opposed, and
opposed to his crown.

"And because I trust in his Divine Majesty, who in His infinite mercy Vds. support this proposal,
I am but, to whom I pray they keep for many years. Chocalla, and March 19, 1781 .-- BLM your humble
servant of you, their good wishes. "

The Governor, D. PEDRO DE LA CRUZ CONDORI.

Edict for the Province of Chichas.

D. José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, Indian real blood, and the main trunk:
- "I know to the countrymen Creole inhabitants of the province and
its vicinity Chichas that seeing the heavy yoke that oppresses us
with both breast and the tyranny of those who run for this office,
without consideration of our misfortunes, and exasperated them and
their wickedness, I have determined shake off this yoke unbearable,
and contain the evil government that experience of the leaders that
make up these bodies, for which reason the public died in the mayor
of this scaffold Ink province, to whose defense came to her in the
city of Cuzco, a portion of escutcheons dragging to my beloved natives,
who paid with their lives for their courage and daring.

I feel only the Creole countrymen, whom has been my intention to not follow them any harm,
but we live like brothers, and gathered in a body, destroying Europeans. All of which looked more
mature with the agreement, and that this claim does not preclude the most Mild to our holy Catholic
religion, but only to suppress both disorder, after having measures taken by those here who have
been conducive to the shelter, protection and conservation of the Spanish Creoles, Mestizos,
Zambos and Indians, and peace of mind, since all and fellow countrymen, as born in our lands, and
the same origin of natural and also having had all these oppressions and tyranny of the Europeans
- has been it convenient to let them know these peasants Creoles, who if they choose that opinion,
no they will damage or lives or estates, but if you disregard this my warning it do not, will experience
his undoing, turning my gentle in rage and fury, reducing the province to ashes, and as I say,
I have the strength, weight, and at my disposal these neighboring provinces in natural union between
Creoles and outside the other provinces also are my orders, and thus deemed not in short is
my warning that is born of my love and mercy, which tends to the
common good of our kingdom, as it ends to pull all Spanish countrymen
and natives of the unjust slavery that have suffered.

Looking at the same time as its main objective to stop the offenses to God Our Lord, whose
ministers, priests Lords, have the proper appreciation and veneration to their states, just as religions
and monasteries, whose pious and righteous intention with which I
come, I hope of divine mercy, as intended by it to effect me shine
and rule for a business you need all your support for your happy success.

"And

so that they have understood, fixed copies of this edict, in places
is considered appropriate in that province, where I know who follow
this advice, to reward loyalists and punish the rebels, who will know
your good, and then alegareis not ignorance.

Is all I can say. Lampa, and December 23, 1780.

"

D. Jose Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, Inca.

There was no longer in the province any leader who could provide care. The items veteran troops
that had been allowed to see throughout their jurisdiction, had filled in respect to the Indians
living in villages, and were beginning to discern some signs of submission their neighbors, because hasty
diligence Governors came to Tupiza Indians, beg pardon, expressing greater care in credit had
not come for formally revolt, which resulted in the commander, to substantiate the causes to inmates
I had learned, which was verified militarily, and justified the crimes were the last 23 major
ordeal, and the rest were condemned to prison and flogging: egecutó everything without the
slightest novelty occurred in spite of the threats had published in some papers satirical attack
that promised to liberate the town oppressors. It continued for official jealous that the more accurate
and active measures to recover stolen goods, and the Spanish who had died, and those who were
fugitives. Managed to gather more than 2,500 pesos, which returned to their owners, preceded proceedings
precise justification of legitimacy, and delivered goods to court dead, no more responsible
than to pray to keep interested parties to pay, by some days at his expense, the militias
who had enlisted with a view to saving to the exchequer this expense, he willingly agreed that,
in response to the many benefits they provided.

Alert after the establishment of the public tranquility, and considering that to get it was
necessary to ensure the apprehension of punishment entirely, which in some peoples susistia
had contributed to much of this conspiracy, I decided to publish in all churches, by their
priests, the following edict: -

D. José Reseguin, Dragrones Lieutenant Colonel, Commander in Chief of the body of this kind destined
to the square of Montevideo and commissioned by the Superior Government of Buenos Aires to the pacification
of the rebellious provinces of Peru.

"I know that having come to this town of Tupiza with a portion of people, which has arranged
to pass the city of La Plata, the Excellent. Mr D. Juan Jose de Vertiz y Salcedo, Viceroy Governor
and Captain General of the provinces of Rio de la Plata, & c., to establish the peace and quiet
of which were shaken and revolted, one of them is Tarija and Chichas,
found desirable to know the governors, priests, and other second villagers
of their jurisdiction are maintained without any novelty in their
homes, continuing the work, chores and work, what he did before the
present riots, because otherwise undergoes the most severe punishment.

It also ordered that to any individual who is present, secure and
put at my disposal, to avoid onwards, these malicious seize the opportunity
to surprise and seduce simple minds of the Indians, stealing properties,
and committing many heinous acts, worthy the greater penalty.

So let them know also that the King's troops and weapons do not come with other aim than to
dispel these troubles, punish the guilty and restore everywhere good order and administration
of justice.