 Part of the latter was what occupied the offices,
which were not very significant. A Salabert was sufficient for the conduct of their business with
a dozen skilled employees. The luxury displayed in the house was amazing: the furniture worth more
than a few million. Clashed with greed, everyone attributed to its owner. This and other similar
contradictions will be resolved as we go penetrating in character, one of the most curious and
most worthy of setting the reader's attention. The kitchens were in basements, which were spacious
and well arranged. The dining room, which occupied the rear the ground floor, was to add an
exceptionally large greenhouse where they grew large number of shrubs and exotic flowers and where
the water was flowing profusely estanquecillos and very pleasing to see waterfalls, all imitating, if possible,
to nature. The blocks were in separate building at the end of the garden, as well as some servants'
room, not everyone.

The Duke, lounging on the only chair that was in the office Llera, while it kept standing in
front of him spinning in the hand of a big scissors cut paper, walked three or four times from one
angle to another of her mouth and wet black cigar unanswered the
last words of his secretary.

At last he grunted more than he said

- Hum! The minister is becoming more stubborn.

- Who cares! Do not you know the secret of giving him? ... Liverpool telegraph you and fifteen days
before the bottle of quicksilver down from sixty to forty dollars.

The Duke of Requena had formed on the initiative and advice Llera, for four years, quicksilver
company or union in order to capture all the mercury they release it on the market. As a result,
this product had risen dramatically. The company was to a huge deposit in Liverpool. Llera plan
was released in a given time producing a huge low frightened the government. This, held at the
same time payment of the loan of one hundred million pesetas that the Government had made ten
years ago to a foreign company, would push him think about selling
mine rivers.

If on the other hand helped the company will sacrifice a few million, subsidizing newspapers
and characters could be assured success. This plan, consisting of
Llera and matured by the Duke, came unfolding regularly and was coming
to an end.

- There shall see - said the wealthy banker and was some
thoughtful moments -. When go to auction - said after - it will be
necessary to form another company