 

But the attorney, insurance convince led him to the house of Dona Sol, talking about his recent
interview with the lady. Showed himself somewhat offended by the neglect of Gallardo. Best Sevilla
had come to her with the accident in Tablada, and he did not.

- You know that a bullfighter should be fine with people better. We must have education and demonstrate
that is not one raised a farmhand in the branding.

A woman of such importance that distinguishes you and waiting ...!

Nothing, I'll go with you.

- Ah! If Nah, you with me! ...

And Gallardo breath to say this, as if he spared the brunt of a great fear.

Entered the house of Dona Sol was Moorish courtyard, recalling his colorful arches work fine
horseshoe arches of the Alhambra.

The jet of the source, in which coleaban goldfish bowl, singing with sweet monotony evening silence.
In the four bays, coffered ceiling, separate patio marble columns of the arcades and saw the old
bullfighter vargueños, dark pictures, pale-faced saints, venerable furniture rusty iron and wood
riddled moth, as if they had been shot with buckshot.

A servant brought them up the broad marble staircase, and again she surprised the bullfighter
altarpieces watching blurry images on a gold background, which seemed
corporeal virgin carved with an ax, with pale colors and dying gold,
torn from old altars a soft tapestry of dried leaf, fringed flowers
and apples, some depicting scenes Calvary, others full of porridge
hairy, with horns and hooves, which seemed bullfighting several scantily
clad ladies.

- What is the ignoransia! - Saying with surprise to
his agent -.

And I thought that this too Bueno pa was only the convents! ... What apresia paese that these
people!

Encendíanse on its way up the balloon of electric light, while in crystals of windows still shone
the last rays of the afternoon.

Gallardo experienced surprises. He was proud of his furniture brought from Madrid, all colorful
silk and intricate carvings, heavy and opulent, which seemed to proclaim loudly cost money,
and here he felt disoriented and frail looking lightweight chairs, white or green, tables and cabinets
with simple lines, walls of a single ink, without further adornment
distributed small squares to large tracts of thick strands and earrings,
a luxury painted and seemed to work fine carpenter.

Ashamed of his own amazement and what it had admired at home and supreme luxury. "What is the
ignoransia!" And seating did it with fear, fearing that the chair rotates groan under their grief.

Dona
Sol's presence made him forget these reflections. He saw it as I
had never seen free blanket and hat, the hair light air, which seemed
to justify its name romantic