 

But no longer experience sudden chill that went down to the plants.

Medrano did call and he rehearsed his strange situation, Beatriz contempt,
coldness Don Alonso and what he had to tell her page.

The squire paled suddenly and, stroking his beard, said:

- Love child,
water basket - after raising the front: - Could it be some mischief
Franco Ringer?

Ramiro, thinking it could refer the matter of the Moors, shook his head. Continuous act like
a man determined to undo the knot so soon tired, he clothed himself with the doublet suede
and girded his sword to give him Eagle Don Rodrigo. Then, stripping the leaf pressed with
both hands on his chest lining, to pray in that guise long prayer.

Persignose finish with the handle, and by running along the steel indefinable look, envainolo
again in silence.

Everything was agreed. Medrano was ordered to haunt the house of Beatrice. I wanted to know what
was happening, moment by moment, as if it was true what the ticket. The in turn would to wait
by the Puerta de San Vicente, and would Pablillo email.

It was past eleven o'clock when Ramiro and his valet left the city, taking, to the left, the road
that runs outside, at the Lunch at the foot of the walls. The boy was walking ahead with the
air clear and happy, and although he had the stomach more hollow than a drummer, his instinct
peeped some whiff of adventure that was to he often livelihood. His master was not a man of
many memorials, and if the other was presented with music under the
windows of the lady, would secure a fight worthy of the streets of
Salamanca.

He, in turn, believed to have the best legs of the kingdom, and, unless will blind you suddenly
making him enter his head in the belly of a guitar, had happened some time, banks of the Tormes,
was secure in his person.

The morning was fresh and radiant. Pablillo felt his blood boil of life, burning of dance, wild
urge to stomp the ground and throw to the winds long sharp songs that bounce in the hills. Spring
wheat provided to the undulating sheen of silk, green and silver chasuble over the puce of
terroir! The sun sparkled on the mica from the rocks, at the gate of the plows in the river, pretending
like a light shower in the distance, on the Villatoro saws. Everything seemed imbued with clarity
and freshness of morning, to the tolling of bells, the sound of the
anvils, and the song of the weavers and tinkers in the Moorish suburb
of Santiago.

Some women burned at the foot of the hill piles of litter and a rustic scent, better than the
incense, the outline deliciously perfumed.

Ramiro recalled without wanting his love to the Saracen.

When he had come to the Puerta de San Vicente, the page who said to wait at that site, while
he would stand against the North wall.

He spent the afternoon without Ramiro would receive notice. At about five in the afternoon, Pablillo
came to inform you that Don Alonso had just left his house in a deck chair, and that as he had
told an old servant, that gentleman, after some time, spent the night
in the convent of Santo Tomas.

The later died. Ramiro sat on a rock, his face almost hidden by the brim of his felt. The purplish
soil at his feet seemed to ripple under the vibration of the dark hallucinatory.

From time to time, the young nobleman raised his head and looked lost
on the boundary, indifferent to the magic of the sky and the seductions
of the landscape, but picking up in the soul, an instinctive way,
the vigor of the place of sublime passion and violence.

The sun, before hiding, dying with his glory exalted gold of the sky.

The pupils Ramiro widened.

Desolate melancholy suddenly bathed the roughness of the wall awesome. Ramiro imagined that towers
are succeeding to the same space as the paternoster of the rosary,
which included the battlements Hail Marys, and the Cathedral, with
its projection dome, the hole filled with relics crucifix saints and
knights.

When Pablillo resubmitted without any notice, his master told him that he would pray to the caves
of San Vicente, and proceeded, in effect, to lie at the feet of the Virgin the Soterra침a.

Approaching the Basilica dipped his hand in his pocket and pulled out the rosary of fifteen mysteries
that he had offered his first preceptor Fray Antonio de Jesus.

It was an old Rosary Holy Land, whose accounts, made of camel bone, were strung on strong and
tight white silk cord.

"Always carry the rope to strangle the hell" said Franciscan Tell
them to offer it.

The church was lonely and dark. A silver lamp burning in the chapel. Mysterious ever it seemed
strange monument now the gold and blue of the Martyrs. He descended into the crypt. The miraculous
image was surrounded by burning candles.

Two women, breasts pitches in ground, wailing into a corner, completely
covered by their cloaks, suggesting two huge bats dying.

Fervently prayed the fifteen mysteries, and when he thought that the shadow he would walk the
streets without being recognized, addressed to the city, entering it through the next door and going
to stand a few steps from the house of Beatrice.

She waited a long time.

Suddenly a man Rozol package and passed. Something was reached after
a round.

A bracket came by shaking it back and forward across the smoky lantern barred. That light shone
crudely the faces of the ministers.

Pedro Ramiro recognized the sheriff Ronco by imposing facade. The eyebrows and mustache seemed
drawn to a brand on his skin color tallow.

Authoritarian noise of feet and the swords were away.

Escuchose then a voice:

- Lord! My lord!

Was Pablillo.

He said that, a moment before, a masked man was standing in front of the house Don Alonso, and that
Medrano was sending time with this news, there was a new masked which, approaching the first questioned
him harshly. And seemed to go hands when happened to pass the round. Using masks and leaning abate
the fire at the faces, the Sheriff Peter Ronco two brothers recognized
the San Vicente, ordering with fierce threats the second son to go
away to the point, if you do not want to end up in jail.

The mayorazgo withdrew also, but, as the squire, would soon return to the same place.

Ramiro was to be placed on the nearest corner. Medrano he encountered, he said and the page to leave
him alone.

The moon was leaning over the rising, then began to outline the wall
on that side their triangular turrets.

Over an hour passed, his eyes Ramiro's house Beatriz.

It seemed at times the flap of the door half opened and closed.

Suddenly a woman's body appeared through the opening. White singular touch and bulk denounced
Mrs. Alvarez. Each Once pulled out most of the bust, gaining confidence.

Finally, hissed quietly, very quietly, several times.

Nobody answered. The shutter remained closed.

When Ramiro Gonzalo began to think that perhaps would not occur that night, saw him coming along
the street, the figure of a man who went to stop at the house Beatrice,
at the foot of the windows.

Ramiro drew his sword, and grasping of the blade above the water, stepped forward, speedily, touching
the wall darker. It was Gonzalo! Although his face was covered by black taffeta reconociole, at first,
by the white feather, subject to the cap with a beautiful ornament
of diamonds, Cinderella and the layer carrying also nights spent at
the gambling house.

While the young ruler was going to hit the door with his knuckles,
Ramiro, running to him, asiole arm in the air.

Then, squeezing hard on the face mask, eventually tear it with furious tug. San Vicente drew
in turn, and saying, "Kill him!" fell on his opponent. But it was waiting already stretched steel.

Gonzalo
stopped, and angrily waving his sword, shouted back:

- Ask for forgiveness of the treacherous.

- You to me, villain, for
your slanders diminished.

- Then the dog Moorish Die! - San Vicente
screamed again.

- Speak more softly, Mr. Alderman, lest you help
pay the round.

- Have not necessary.

- Well, look, if you please,
somewhere further away, the buzz of the swords do not poke someone
thinking it owns the gold of your bag.

- We go where you please.

The two sheathed, and Ramiro took the narrow lane, in the direction
of east, towards a lonely place within the walls, he had observed
in one of his walks.

Gonzalo going to the left, and his gray coat looked like a silver fabric between the uncertain
clear night.

Arrivals who were at an old gate, Ramiro stopped and tried to violate the lock. Gonzalo helped
with my shoulder. Finally, after a vain struggle, agreed to climb together the wall. Gonzalo put
his foot on the thigh of Ramiro and when he had climbed, stretched
from hand up to his rival, helping each other as on the challenges
of chivalrous books and as they did Amadis Rugero or Esplandi치n, with
its brave courtesy.

It was an abandoned quarry.

The rock, forming a single mass in the form of choline, did not allow any house up on its stone
caparacho, as old as the world.

The wall stood right, embattled, sullen, solemn and formidable shadow covered.

Stopping at the flattest place, the two young men knocked down their coats. Gonzalo also threw
the shield away from him that had hung from his belt. The sky, all Tented, transparent clouds, spread
over the quiet city with a mysterious light of dawn. Towards the
rising, pearly halo surrounding the hidden pearl of the moon.

Steels crossed.

Gonzalo masterfully blows stopped, awaiting the moment. Ramiro, in turn, displayed a flamboyant
fencing and soldiers, with turnstiles fantastic, and his mouth slightly open for the lust murderer,
leaving teeth glittered.

San Vicente, despite his skill he felt cruel hesitation to that mask, confidence, any force,
any courage, and finally, fearing that her heart faltered, made a false and Ramiro sent it to a right end and
swift as a dart. The weapon pierced through and through the doublet from the side, scraping the
flesh. Ramiro then lit by a spark of instinct, took two big steps forward, to allow trapped
in the leather leaf the opponent, and took his own sword, as one who stands a dagger blow
clav칩sela of the chest. Then he plunged it fiercely through the bodice,
all whole, all, all, to the hawks.

Gonzalo said:

- It is done!

And, casting a wave by mouth blackish desplomose.

His arms and legs shook for a moment, and his head and lifeless, bent, lay side on the stone.

When
looking at the plants spread to her lifeless body of his rival, Ramiro submitted a short prayer
Our Lady of the Soterra침a. He avenged! The source of pride now shed all enjoy your body a huge
and brave. Stand in the breeze felt like a cockscomb, feather in his hat, and experienced
on the heels a strange sense of invincible power. Had wanted to launch, with all their voice,
to the moon, the battle cry of their elders.

Assaulted by a sudden thought, he ducked into the body, and undoing
the laces, took between the jacket and the bloody shirt a ticket without
overwritten.

Unfolded. Clarity was weak, but looking to the sky, observed that the moon was going to happen
very soon after crack in the clouds. Shortly after his eyes read the following words:

"Please your worship come tonight after eleven. First hit three times
and then two, very quietly, in the wicket.

I'll open. Cross the yard and garden and climb the tower of the wall. My lady will then talk to your worship.

"Your
faithful servant, Alvarez."

Tomos forehead with both hands, was possible! Is it true that Beatrice? ... Is there not some
trick everything infamous mistress? It was easy to know. He held his meditation, and, instantly,
with nervous haste, changed his black hat cap Gonzalo.

Then dragging the body to the edge of a cavity than black at the
bottom of the walls, with empujolo standing stoutly for rolled to
the bottom.

Then, collecting the clear layer of dead embozose with it, making
it a mess that pushed him under the arm.

As he prepared to jump back over the wall, he saw two faces looming behind dark. Was a thrill. Medrano
and Pablillo were, they had witnessed from there all scene. Falling into the street, the squire
received him on his chest, exclaiming:

- Famous thrust, vote for
Christ!

Flee, flee quickly, lest the round again.

Ramiro ordenoles this time to rule that they would wait for the sun, and layer them and hat, stood
up resolutely to the home of Beatrice.

Arrived at the door, said on the floor the black mask Gonzalo holding it with promptly put it
in his face.

Hit three times and then another two with his knuckles. The cloth layer gave off sissy perfume.
His spirit began to wander. Saw and stopped several times to see a pillow Aixa adorned with
gold thread and precious stones. Noted that the door contained nails heads of lions. Called again.
Too much emotion you drunk.

Finally, the bolt wicket creaked slightly and entreabriose; Dona Alvarez looked out, and after
having observed a moment, he whispered:

- Good news, Don Gonzalo!

Then, opening the shutter completely and shaking his hand impatiently:

- Presto, presto - added; - cross your grace the yard and garden, and climb the tower.

When Ramiro was found at the top of the cube, from whose platform was being seen sunset child,
accompanied by the dwarf, leaned his back against the battlements
and began to wait.

Incomprehensible apathy flooded him: unconsciousness, a vague emotion,
comparable to early intoxication.

His meditating without understanding why.

The freshness of the night doeth smile.

Down deep, undulating hillocks with gloomy color of steel. The convent of the Incarnation with
her sad pale walls, poppy at night its holy calm.

Dim light floated on the abode of purity and passion, as if its walls enclose some miraculous
garden lilies. Low clouds, cracked like icebergs, covered the sky,
leaving transparent that fearful ashy light favorable to all spells.
The roosters crowed at times as if you started the aurora. Beat a
dog so grim at the foot of the wall.

Suddenly, on the stairs was
heard rustling silk dresses.

Ramiro stood.

Covered with a dark veil,
a woman had appeared on the tower, his hand, gloved gracefully struck
her veil. The pale complexion Beatriz then shone with whiteness marble,
and lustrous hair, girded by a ring of gold, taken at night peacock
bluish dark armor. Two locks were detached from others, which vibrate
in the air twice snake.

Wide silver braid bedrooms sapphire skirt,
while the fabric of my jacket disappeared under accounts and beads,
height of wavelet trinket like water constantly restless. The girl
lifted her face with narrowed eyes, remaining motionless for a moment.
Its smooth lips seemed to suck the light coming down from heaven.

Ramiro
felt like mad before this apparition. His whole being was not an abrupt
frenzy, a flame that reaches out to devour the veil soon. Beatrice
was standing before him, his Beatrice, his wife, deified by the magic
of the night and silence. Forgot your suspicion; forget the role of
Mrs. Alvarez and the recent drama; forgot like a drunkard, as an insane,
wearing the clothes of another man, forgot the mask that hid his face,
and it seemed that, after a hopeless dream, was last with her beloved
husband and lord, on the enchanted castle tower. Asiola walked toward
her and gently. Beatriz resisted weakly on his lip, wet, shivering
a little light blue, a drop of moon!

It was at first a perfect kiss,
almost disembodied, taken with the breath, in the stillness, in the
high on the dream of the city and land, but at first, the contact
undecided over to awaken the senses, and their mouths were bound,
tightly clenched under the male furor. Beatriz moaned unable to dodge,
while Ramiro was running for his superhuman body delight. In order
to achieve the longed, the dream touch! It was the kiss, the kiss
of Beatrice so many times imagined! But suddenly, in the midst of
this crazy transportation, a lightning reason shone in his brain.
Reality just hit you suddenly. It was awful. With still quivering
mouth on the face of the girl, suddenly thought he was with the layer
and the touch of the dead man wearing a mask over his face, that Beatriz
believed found in the arms of Gonzalo, and, finally, that the kiss
was the kiss of another, the triumph of another, supreme caress intended
for another lip, another man!

At that moment the girl, lifting her
face, exclaimed with passion:

- Ah, Gonzalo, how happy you make me!

She
placed her mouth again insatiable.

Ramiro gives flight was full of
dementia. His whole being gritted which igneous sheet the swordsmith
suddenly immersed in water. She felt that her mind spinning into a
vortex of darkness, and heard in his brain the barking of the dark
powers of revenge, not seeing but one idea, one need only one justice:
the destruction, death!

It took, however, unable to resist the new
kiss of Beatriz, returning that caress with a savage bite