 Zadig wanted to see what he wrote: arrimóse, and saw a Z,
then an A, and wondered: then read a D, and gave her heart skip a beat, but never was both
his astonishment, as the two rearward Quando read letters in his name. Remained motionless for
a while, finally breaking the silence, unsure, voice, said: "Generous Lady, forgive to a hapless
foreigner who dares to ask why anything strange encounter here the name of Zadig, by thy divine
hand writing? On hearing this voice and these words, lifted with trembling hand the lady her
veil, myth Zadig, uttered a cry of Temur, wonder and joy, and surrendering to the various emotions
that together embatian his soul fainted in arms. Was Astarte, was the queen of Babylon, the
same as Zadig idolized, and whose love his conscience accused him, those whose fate had cost
so many tears. He spent some time deprived of the use of their senses, and when their eyes Cluver's
eyes slowly Astarte opened again between faint, confused, loving, O immortal powers! exclaimed, "Restitais
me to my Astarte? What time, what site, around to see what state? Hincóse knees before Astarte,
bowing his fiente Baxo dust of your feet. Lift it up the Queen of Babylon, and I feel it themselves
on the banks of the stream, a thousand times enxugar eyes always bathed in fresh tears. Twenty
times ci knotted thread of reasons that blocked her moans; doeth questions about anything that
had gathered, and did not rise to that respond to new questions, beginning to tell their misfortunes,
and wanted to know those Zadig. Having finally both a little calm the tumult of his breast,
he said in brief Perhaps why Zadig was in this meadow. But as I am, or respectable queen and
unfortunate, in this deviant site, dressed in a slave and other slaves who accompanied looking for
a basilisk, for boiling, under a doctor's prescription, in rose water?

While they are looking for their basilisk, I shall inform you, 'said
the fair Astarte, all I have suffered, and forgive the sky once you
get to see you.

You know that the king My husband took it amiss that you were the kindest of all men, and perhaps
for this reason took a night to send you the determination to hang, and give me a tósigo, and
also know that compassionate heaven disposed to let me know my dwarf silent orders of his sublime
Majesty. No sooner had I pointed the faithful Cador to obey and depart, she dared to penetrate
by a side door in my fourth at midnight, I pulled out of the palace, and took me to temple
of Orosmades, where I locked her brother magician into a colossal statue which is based rests on
the foundation of the temple, and the head touches the roof. This was like buried as the magician
who served me made sure that I shall not want. At break of day, entered my quarto of His Majesty
the chemist with a potion of henbane, opium, hemlock, black hellebore, and anapelo, and another
officer went to your house with a blue silk cord; Nias found no to anyone. For more deceive
the king, Cador him a false complaint against two of us, pretending you wore you the way to
India, and mine in Memphis, and sent people in our trackers.

I knew the messengers who were looking fight, because it seldom had
shown me face, unless it was to you, before my husband and by his
order.

Chasing Ibanme by signs that they had given me, and found the line of Egypt with other my height
itself, and that perhaps was more beautiful. I was in tears, and walked heedless, so that
they did not doubt that she was the queen of Babylon, and to Moabdar conduxéron. Wroth King violently
by mistake, but after having covered more closely to this woman, saw that it was very beautiful,
and was comforted. Missouf was called, a name which, according to later I am told, means the
beautiful Egyptian, capricious, and it was indeed, but were not in behind their gear to their
cravings, while having to Moabdar liked him so captivated who declared his lawful wife. Manifestóse
then frankly its kind, giving unchecked to all the extravagances of his imagination. Wished to
stress the high magician, old and gout, to which Bayle in his presence, and having refused
this, he was haunted by death. In the Horse I ordered a sweet cake, and since it was not represented
baker, all was in vain: he had to make the cake, and let him go because he was so toast. The
office of the Horse was given to his dwarf, and a page to him tax advice: ruled in this way
to Babylon. Llorábame around the world, and the king, until he had sent me hang and poison had
been pretty good, I leave that his virtues runners to shipwreck on his love of beautiful fanciful.
The day of the sacred fire came to the temple, and I saw him implore the gods for Missouf,
prostrate before the statue where I was stuck. Then raising voice, I said to him: "The Gods
dismiss the pleas of a king became a tyrant, and has wanted to take the life of a woman on
trial for marrying a crazy woman. "put these words Moabdar on such a confusion to which he was
the head. In oracle I had pronounced and the tyranny of Missouf had plenty to lose his reason, and
with effect in a few days went crazy.

This madness, which was attributed to punishment from heaven, was the signal for rebellion: amotinóse
the people and took weapons, Babylon, where queen into a pier as long idleness, became theater
of a horrific civil war.

They pulled me out of the hole of my statue; They put forward of a party, and Cador was running
to Memphis, to bring him to Babylon. News of such fatal New Prince of Hircania came with his
army to form third party in Chaldea and came to attack the king met him with his blundering Egyptian.
Moabdar died, pierced by a thousand cuts, and fell in the hands of the victor Missouf. It was my
misfortune that I also was caught by a band of guerrillas Hyrcanus, Condux me into the presence
of the prince, at the same time it took to Missouf. Surely ye shall know that I had the satisfaction
for more beautiful than the Egyptian, but shall not be less feeling for what you say you I devoted
to his harem, saying without beating about the bush, then to conclude a military expedition
to qual was scheduled to leave, would come to me. Imagine qual was my grief: Broken links with
Moabdar shook me, could be Zadig, and fell in the irons of a barbarian. I replied with all
the pride that my high large hierarchy inspired me and my affections, having heard that all
my life that people of my dignity of the heavens had endowed of such greatness, with a word and
a look of eyes mingled in the dust of the blue to quanta were reckless daring to depart from
a point in the most reverent obedience. Spoke as Queen, but I was treated like a maid of pitcher:
the Hyrcanus, without even deigning to answer, he said to his black eunuch that I was swearing,
but he seemed nice. Ordered him to me take care and give me the treatment to those who were
in his favor, that I became the colors, and were more worthy of his touch on the day it seemed
appropriate to honor them. Dixel would kill me, and I replied laughing that none were killed by these
things and was accustomed to such fuss and went as a xilguero dexándome cage. What situation
for the first reyiia of the universe, and more for a heart that was Zadig!

And he knelt down to hear these reasons, watering with tears plants Astarte. Alzola this affectionately,
and went on to say: Viamed in the hands of a barbarian, and competition with a crazy who was locked.
Contour Missouf his adventure in Egypt, and for painting that you
did, by time, by the dromedary in ye were mounted, and the other circumstances
came to the attention of Zadig was who had fought in their defense;
and no doubt you were in Memphis, I determined to take refuge in this
city.

Bella Missouf, I said to him, "you are much more comely than I, and looking for fun rather
Hyrcanian Prince: procuradme means of escape; reynaréis you alone, and you will make me happy,
librándoos of a rival. Missouf helped me to make my flight, and I departed secretly with an
Egyptian slave.

Already played with Saudi, when a robber stole my very name, called Arboga, the qual I sold
to some merchants that they brought me to this palace, where he lives, Mr. Ogul, which I bought without
knowing who I was. This is a glutton, who thinks only of binge well, and believes that God has
put the world to enjoy a bueu table. He is so excessively fat, which
every moment seems he is going to burst.

Your doctor is with him little influx Quando makes good digestion, but when they have high-handedly
sends ahitera and now has made believe that he had to heal with a basilisk boiled in rose water.
Has promised to give hand to the slave that traxere a basilisk, and you see me I leave they
deserve the very high honors, having never been less willing to bump the basilisk that since
they have heaven wanted to come back to see you.

Astarte and Zadig Dixéronse quanto then the most generous and passionate breasts could countered
inspire affection so long and so much love and so much misery, and geniuses that love led preside
reasons of both in the sphere of Venus.

He turned about a fifth of the women Ogul without having found anything. Zadig was introduced
to him, and said to him: the sky Descend the immortal Hygia to dilate your years. I am a doctor;
I've been having heard of your illness, and I am bringing a basilisk
in boiling water Rose, not because I aspire to marry you, I ask only
the freedom of a young slave Babylon, which I sold a few days ago,
and I acquiesced to remain a slave in his place, if I have the joy
of healing the magnificent Mr. Ogul.

The proposal was accepted, and went to Babylon, Astarte in the company of Zadig's servant, promising
that he would ship out immediately a messenger to inform had quanto happened. No less than his
recognition were loving their vouchers, because, as written in the great book of Zenda, the two
most solemn times of life is the moment we meet again, and that we
parted.

Zadig to the Queen wanted as much as he swore, and Zadig loved the queen more than what he said.

Zadig
spoke in this way to Ogul, Lord, my basilisk not eat, that all virtue is you must enter through
the pores, I've put in a good swollen wineskin wind and covered with a fine leather, it is necessary
that such wineskin empujeis towards me in the air with all your strength, and that I will throw
it often, and with a few days and this Diet Exercicio will see the effectiveness of my art. The
first day it was to drown Ogul, and believed that was about to breathe
the soul, the latter is less tired and slept most good: at last the
eight days regained all the strength, health, lightness, and good
humor of his most florid years.

Zadig said to him: Have you played at the ball, and you have not had enough: know that there
is no basilisk in the world, that a sober man and always makes Exercicio healthy lives, and
how imagined amalgamation is the art of gluttony with health as the Sorcerer's Stone, judicial
astrology, and theology of the Magi.

Knowing the quan Ogul first doctor of medicine was dangerous for such a man, collide with the
apothecary to send for guild basilisks to the other world: so that having been punished for their
good deeds always, was to die for having given health to a man gluttonous. Convidáronle to
a feast, where he ought to poison the second service, but still in the first, received a part
of the beautiful queen, and rose from the table, splitting without delay. He who is loved by a beautiful,
says the great Zoroaster, everything goes well in this world.

CHAPTER XIX.

The fair.

Received the Queen was in Babylon with that joy with which we always
welcome a princess beautiful and unhappy.

Babylon then still seemed something more: the prince had Hircania
killed in battle, and the Babylonians declared winners would marry
Astarte with which he was elected by the sovereign.

But they did not want first place in the world, was the husband of
Astarte and King of Babylon, hanging in tangles and parties, and swore
King recognized by the bravest and discreet.

They raised a few miles from the city a vast palisade fencing arenas beautifully decorated,
the maintainers will have to submit armed to the nines, and he drew each a separate room where
no I could not see or speak to anyone. It had to run four spears, and those who had the said
Beating four horsemen, had then to fight each other: so that the rearward by those who stay
the camp was declared the winner of the tournament. Four days later he back with the same weapons,
and hit the riddles proposed the magicians, and if not the successful, there was to be king,
but they were to return to running spears until they give a man to come out with victory in both
tests, because they were determined not to recognize king to whom it was not the bravest and
most discreet. In all this time were allowed to the Queen communicate with anyone, only gave
him license to attend games to cover a veil, but was not consented to talk with any of the suitors,
because there were no injustice or valimiento.

This notice was her lover Astarte, waiting for her proven more valuable and discretion anyone.
Zadig departed, praying to Venus to strengthen his spirit and enlighten his understanding, and reached
the banks of the Euphrates on the eve of the solemn day. He then lay his nickname among those
of the other combatants, concealing his name and face, as the law required, and came to rest in the
room which he had fitted eu luck. His friend was back Cador in Babylon, having searched in Egypt,
he sent his quarto take full plate sent to him by the Queen, and
also with her more lush horse of Persia.

Well Zadig saw These gifts are hand of Astarte, and acquired new vigor, new hopes and her love
and his boldness.

The next day the Queen sat Baxo a canopy adorned with precious stones, and full and auditoriums
of all women and people of all states of Babylon, see dexáron maintainers in the circus. Set each
his nickname at the feet of the high magician sorteáronse, and Zadig was the last. The first
a man presented himself very wealthy, called Itobad so full of vanity as lacking in courage, skill,
and understanding. Persuaded Habíanle his servants to a man as he was to be king, and he had answered
them: A man as I should reign.

Habíanle as armed from head to foot, wearing a gold nail guns green, a green plume, and the
spear hung with green ribbons. On the way to govern Itobad his horse, threw himself upon seeing
that he had not intended the scepter of Babylon to a man like he the sky. The first knight
that ran throws made him lose his temper, and the second pulled him by the legs of the horse
to the ground, legs up, and open arms. Again Itobad to ride, but doing so sad figure, the whole
amphitheater burst out laughing. No deigned to touch the third with Lance; but he passed to him
grabbed his right leg, and they should give him half-back, threw him down on the sand, the squires
of Games went to lift laughing: the quarto fighter takes him by the left leg and throws the other
side. Conduxéronle a thousand insults to his apartment, where according to law had to spend that
night and he said, scarcely able to wiggle: What an adventure for a man like me!

Best discharging their obligation to the other champions, there were some who beat two fighters,
and a few up to three. Only four vanquished Otama prince. The little gray rearward Zadig,
and far removed from the stirrups Donayre to four riders one after another, with this started
the fight between Zadig and Otama. This was bringing arms in blue and gold with a tuft of the
same; Zadig those were white. The mood of the attendees were divided between the knight blue
and white: the queen to her heart pounding, making passionate pleas to the ring by white.

Champions gave both repeated twists and turns so lightly, and dodged asentáronse such boats with spears,
and remained so strong in his stirrups, that all but the Queen, wished to have two kings in Babylon.
Tired and horses, and broken spears, Zadig used this trick: passes behind the prince, rushes
to the rump of his horse, it takes for half of the body, it breaks down on the ground, mounted
on the empty chair, and begins to spinning around Otama lying on the ground. Crying all the
amphitheater: Victory the white knight. Upgrades Otama enraged, drew his sword, gives a jump
horse Zadig the naked cutlass.

Both begin in the new arena and more dangerous battle triumphs now agility, strength now. Flying
in the wind wounded often hit the plumage of their helmets, the nails of their bracelets, the
mesh of their weapons. Sharp edge and are wound to left, right to the head, chest, retiranse, acométense,
move away, they hold back; dóblanse like snakes, lions embísterise as: every moment Salfa sparks
of blows stick. Zadig finally takes a breath, stopped, Otama dodges a blow, not given to roam,
it breaks down, disarm him, and exclaims Otama: White Knight, to you is because the throne of
Babylon. Was beside herself the queen of joy. Knight led the blue and white knight, to every
one to his room, as they had done with everyone else, provided that commanded the law. Silent
about the came to serve, and they brought them food. Well if it would be presumed the mute queen
who served to Zadig. Dexáronlos sleep alone until the next day by morning, Quando was the winner
had to take his nickname to the supreme magician, to be collated and to know.

Zadig was so tired he slept deeply, because love, but not sleep Itobad I was lying in the quarto
immediately: getting up at night and entered the Zadig, picked up his weapons and his nickname, and
set their own green in place of them. Hardly scratched dawn, when presented to the supreme magician
proud, declaring that a man as he was the winner. Nobody expected it, but was proclaimed while
Zadig was still sleeping. He turned Astarte stunned and desperate to Babylon. Almost everything
was empty amphitheater Zadig awoke Quando, and searching for weapons was found with the green
instead. Saw himself compelled to put on them, having nothing else to fall back on.