 

In this kind of writing should be distinguished two parts: the descriptions of objects which
seen, or scenes you witnessed the traveler, and other news and observations that fills his
work. As regards the former, we should remember what has been said about the truth; adding two caveats:
1 ª. that distrust of the fidelity of the pictures should be kept some proportion to the distance
from the scene, by the thing: distant lands, Luengas lies, 2 ª. that travelers are at risk
of exaggerating, disfiguring, and to pretend, be doing very wrong ideas about the country that
describe, for the vain itch to be interesting, and given importance, telling outlandish adventures.

As
to the other news and observations, it is possible to reduce fixed
rules how to distinguish truth from error, mostly being impossible
task in many cases.

But it will be characterized by thoughts that somehow fill the void of rules, inspiring mistrust
and maintaining prudent to keep the inexperienced and unwary.

§ II.

Origin and formation of some relationships travel.

How are most of the trips? Spending no more than the most famous places, both in stopping some major
points, and across the country through so quickly as is possible, therefore to instigate this powerful
three reasons: to save time, save money, and lessen the discomfort. If the country is cultivated,
with good roads, with canals, rivers and coasts of rapid navigation, the traveler jumps from
one capital to another shooting like an arrow; asleep with the rocking of the car or ship,
and poking his head out the door to recreate the view of some beautiful landscape, or strolling
on deck watching the banks of the river which robs power. Hence results from across the country
through is completely unknown in regards to ideas, religion and customs. Something is about
the quality of the land and the costumes of the inhabitants, because both objects offered to
the eyes, but even in these things if the traveler is cautious, and attempts to speak general,
readers may disseminate false news items and extravagant. If from here to Some years we go
through the Ebro from Zaragoza to Tortosa, the traveler to paint field and costumes of Aragon
and Catalonia, stick to what we had seen on the banks the river, by the way that they provide
to their readers back crazy.

Now reflect the relationships fond of travel, if you need to do the detailed news about a country
many thousands of square miles described by a passenger who observed in the above manner. "He
who has seen up close what he says, and will without a trace of doubt "in this way you talk,
or credulous reader, thinking that this news gathering put your hard work and care guide, for I'll
tell you what might very well have happened, and again do not leave
so easily fooled.

Travelers come to the capital, perhaps with little knowledge of the language, and perhaps with
any, will be walked dazed and confused some days, in the maze of streets and squares, often
deployed to the city level, asking at every corner, and out of step the best possible way to
find the passport office, the home of the embassy, ??and sugetos for those who carried the
letter of recommendation. This time is not well adapted to observe, and if at times takes
car to get rid of tiredness and to avoid loss, the worse for the
notes of their portfolio: all paraded his eyes very quickly and in
flashlight magic illusions pictures, collect very pleasant sensations,
but not much news