 The deck was swaying as if
they flee from under the feet of the crew, and the mast creaked pulse of the fans candle. But
suddenly the barrier gave way and the boat, leaping, he resumed his march.

The rig, before rigid and tight, hung loose and fainted.

They pulled him and surfaced the hook, but broken, split in half,
despite its size.

The friend shook his head sadly.

- Antonio, the animal can more than us. Let him go, and give thanks
because he has broken the hook.

For a little more going in the background.

- Leave it? - Shouted the pattern -.

A demon! Do you know how much is this piece? It is not time for scruples or fears. He! He!

And by turning the boat returned to the sea where the encounter had
taken place.

He put a new hook, a great hook, which skewered several Rovelo, and
without releasing the Helm took a sharp hook.

Light blow was to let go to that stupid and chunky beast as put at your fingertips!

The rig hanging from the stern almost straight. The boat shuddered again, this time a terribly.
The tuna was well grasped and pulled the hook solid, stopping the boat, making dancing wildly
on the waves.

The water seemed to boil, rose to the surface foam and bubbles in
muddy swirl, which if depth development of a gigantic struggle, and
suddenly the boat, and seized by hidden hands, lay down, filling the
water to half cover.

Flip That broke down to the crew. Antonio, releasing the helm, was almost in the waves; but heard
a crack and the boat regained its normal position.

He had broken the tackle, and the same moment came the tuna with the side, almost at the water,
raising enormous foams with its powerful tail. Ah, you thief!

We finally put a shot!

And anger, as if it were an implacable enemy, Antonio threw several
times with the gaff, sinking iron in that clammy skin.

The water is stained with blood and the animal sank a red swirl.

Antonio breathed at last. Good had escaped: all lasted a few seconds, but a little more, and had
gone to the bottom.

He looked at the wet deck and saw the mast my friend, grabbed him, pale, but unalterable peace.

- I thought we were choking, Antonio.

So I swallowed water! Fucking animal! But good shots you've stirred. She will not take to
stay afloat.

- And the boy?

This is the father asked anxiously, anxiously, as if afraid the answer.

I

was not on deck. Antonio slid down the hatch, expecting to find in the Creek. It sank in water up
to the knee: the sea had flooded. But who thought this? He fumbled in the small, dark space, without
finding more than the barrel of water and gear parts.

He returned to the deck like a madman.

- The boy! The boy! ... My Anton!

The friend grimaced ruefully.

Would not they were close to going overboard? Reckless by a blow, he would have gone to the bottom
like a bullet.

But mate, even thought all this, said nothing.

Far to the site where the boat had been close to capsizing, a black object floating on the water.

-
There he is!

And the father jumped into the water, swimming vigorously, while the
companion slackened sail.

He swam and swam, but its forces left him convinced that the object
was a rowing a wreck of his boat.

When the waves lifted up, pulled the body out to see farther.

Water everywhere.

Over the sea were just him, the boat approached and a black curve
that had just emerged and horribly contracted on a large bloodstain.

The tuna was dead ... Valiente thing he cared! The life of his only
son, of Anton in exchange of that beast!

God! Was this way of earning a living?

He swam more than an hour, believing that each friction body of his son would arise under his
legs, imagining that the shadows of the waves were the child's body floating between two stools.

There
had been, there would have died with his son.

The friend had to catch it and put in the boat like a rebellious child.

- What we do, Anthony?

He did not answer.

- Do not take it well, man. Are things in life. The dead boy that killed all our relatives, where
we die. All a matter of sooner or later ... But now, what we are, to think that we are poor.

And
preparing two nooses tuna seized the body and took him to tow the
boat with blood staining the foam of the wake.

The wind favored them, but the boat was flooded, was sailing badly,
and the two men, sailors Above all, forget the disaster, and the scoops
in hand, worshiped the inside the creek, throwing shovels of water
into the sea.

So the hours passed.

That tough task brutalized Antonio, prevented him from thinking, but tears were rolling their eyes
and more tears, which, mixing with water from the creek, fell in the sea over the grave of
the child.

The boat was sailing with increasing speed, feeling emptied their bowels.

The small port was in sight, with its masses of white houses by the golden afternoon sun.

The sight of land awoke in pain and Antonio numb horror.

- What will my wife?

What will my Rufina? - Groaned the unhappy.

And all men trembling as energetic and daring, which at home are slaves
of the family.

Glided over the sea like a caress cheerful rhythm of waltz.

The land breeze greeted the boat with live and lively melodies.

It was the music played on the promenade, opposite the Casino. Below the flattened palm parade,
like beads on a string of colors, the umbrellas of silk, straw hats,
clear and colorful costumes of all people summer.

The children, dressed in white and pink, leaping and running after their toys, or were gay
Outcry as color wheels turning.

In the spring thronged the office: his eyes, accustomed to the vastness
of the sea, had recognized what was towing the boat.

But Anthony only looked at the end of the pier, a tall, bald and
blackened, standing on a rock, whose skirts swirled the wind.

They arrived at the pier. What cheer! Everyone wanted to see up close the huge animal. Fishermen,
from their boats, threw envious glances, the rascals, nude-colored
brick ech치banse water to touch the huge tail.

Rufina was opened through the crowd, reaching her husband, who with
his head down and stupid expression I heard the congratulations of
friends.

- And the boy?

Where's the boy?

The poor man still more his head down. The sunk between his shoulders, as if to make disappear, refusing
to hear, not see anything.

- But Where is Anton?

And Rufina, with shining eyes, as if to devour her husband, she held
on to the front, rudely shaking that big man.

But soon release him, and lifting the arms, burst into terrible scream.

- Oh, Lord ... He is dead!

My Anton has drowned! Is in the sea!

- Yes, women - the husband slowly said awkwardly, mumbling, as if you drown the tears -. We are very
unfortunate. The boy is dead, is where his grandfather, where I will be any day. Eat sea and
the sea has to swallow ... What a relief! Not everyone is born for bishops.

But his wife did not hear him. Was on the ground, shaken by a nervous breakdown, and rolled
kicking, showing her thin and roasted animal nakedness of work, while pulling by the hair, scratching
his face.

- My son!

... My Anton! ...

The neighboring district of fishermen flocked to it. They knew what it meant: nearly all had gone
through the same perils. They lifted her up, holding it with his
powerful arms, and marched towards his house.

Some fishermen took a glass of wine to Antonio, who never ceased to mourn. Meanwhile, compadre,
dominated by the brutal selfishness of life, with buyers haggled
fiercely fish that wanted to purchase a beautiful piece.

The afternoon. The waters, waving gently, taking gold reflections.

At intervals sounded farther and farther away the desperate cry of the poor woman, disheveled
and crazy, jostled her friends home.

- Anton! My son!

And under the palm trees were still parading the colorful costumes, happy, smiling faces, a world
that had not felt the misfortune to spend with him, who had launched a look at the drama of poverty,
and the elegant waltz, rhythmic and voluptuous, anthem cheerful madness, harmonious glided over
the water, stroking his breath the eternal beauty the sea.

Man overboard!

As the night, left the lute Torrevieja San Rafael, with a cargo of salt to Gibraltar.

The cove was packed, and on deck amonton치banse sacks, forming a mountain around the mainmast.
To move from stem to stern, the crew were on the edges, holding with dangerous balance.

The night was good summer night with stars in bulk and a cool breeze, somewhat irregular, that as
soon swelled the great lateen sail up the mast to moan as ceased to blow, falling faint the
vast canvas with loud flapping.

The crew, five men and a boy, had dinner after the exit maneuver,
and once slicing the steaming cauldron, which sank the fishing fraternity
from crust to the pattern to the boy disappeared down the hatch all
off duty, to stand on the hard mattress, their bellies swollen with
wine and watermelon juice.

It was at the helm Uncle Sparks, a toothless shark that growls eagerly welcomed the latest
indications of the pattern, and with him his protege Juanillo, a
rookie who did San Rafael in his first trip, and I was very grateful
to the old man through whom he entered in the crew, killing your hunger,
it was not little.

The wretched lute antoj치basele the boy a ship Admiral, a happy ship,
sailing sea ??of ??plenty.

Dinner that night was the first dinner he had made serious in your life.

Had reached nineteen years, hungry and almost naked as a savage, sleeping the crooked hut where
her grandmother wailed and prayed, still by rheumatism: day helped
to launch the boats unloading fish baskets, or pest was in boats chasing
tuna and sardines, to take home a handful of tiny fish.

But now, thanks to Uncle Sparks, who was law for having known his father, he was a sailor, was
in way if anything, could rightly put his arm into the cauldron, and even wore shoes, the first
of his life, superb pieces able to navigate as a frigate, which plunged in an ecstasy of worship.
And yet they say that if the sea! ... Come on, man. The best profession the world.

Uncle Sparks, without looking away from the bow rudder and hands, bending to probe the dark
between the sail and the pile of bags, we listened with crafty smile.

- Yes, no profession has made a bad choice.

But is bankruptcy. You'll see ... when you're my age ... But your site is here: go ahead and warn
if you see a boat ahead.

Juanillo ran overboard with the peace of a rogue safe beach.

- Careful, boy, watch out.

But he was in the bow, and sat next to boom, peering into the black surface sea, at the bottom
of reflected light as serpentine thread of the restless stars.

The lute, paunchy and heavy, fell after each wave with a grand chap! I did jump drops Juanillo to
face: two sheets of phosphorescent foam running down both sides of
the thick nose, swollen and sailing, with the top lost in the darkness,
seemed to scratch the vault of heaven.

What king or what Admiral was better than the watchman of the San
Rafael? ... Brrru!

Her stomach belching greeted him with full satisfaction. Life more beautiful! ...

- Uncle Sparks! ... A cigar.

- Come get it.

Juanillo ran down the side of the side opposite the wind.

It was a moment of quiet, and sailing riz치base with strong palpitations,
fainting next to fall along the mast.

But wine a burst, and the boat tipped with fast motion, Juanillo, to keep the balance agarrose
the edge of the sail, and at the same moment it swelled up as if it were to explode launching the
lute in a sprint and pushing hard throughout the body so irresistible
Boy, that shot like a catapult.

At the sound of water to swallow it Juanillo thought he heard a cry,
somewhat confused words; maybe the old helmsman who shouted, "Man
overboard!"

Fell much, much! dazed by the blow, so unexpected fall, but before exact realize it saw himself
again in the sea surface brewing, absorbing fresh wind furiously ... And the boat? Did not
see it now. The sea was very dark, darker that seen from the deck of the lute.

Believed to distinguish a white, a ghost floating in the distance
on the waves, and swam to him.

But suddenly no longer saw him there, but rather the opposite, and
changed direction, disoriented swimming strongly, but not knowing
where to go.

The shoes were weighed as lead, damn! The first time
so I was! Cap I racked the temples, he pulled his pants as if it came
to the bottom of sea ??and were swept algae.

- Quiet, Juanillo, quiet.

He
threw his cap, wishing he could do the same with shoes.

I was confident.
He swam a lot: he was to hold for two hours. Those in the boat would
turn for fishing: a dip and nothing more ... What then die just like
men? In a storm as they had killed his father and grandfather, good,
but beautiful night with good sea die driven by a candle would be
a fool's death.

And swam and swam, always thinking she saw that ghost
hesitant to move around, waiting that emerge from the darkness the
San Rafael coming after him.

- Ah the boat! Uncle Sparks! ... Pattern!

But
the screaming and distressed him two or three times the waves they
covered his mouth. Damn! ... From the boat seemed insignificant, but
at sea, up to his neck and forced a continuous nudging to hold, choked
him, beat him with their deaf undulation opened before him and moving
deep trenches, then closing them to swallow.

He continued to believe,
but with some concern, in his two hours of endurance. Yes, had them.
Two hours and over there on the beach swam tirelessly. But it was
in daylight hours, at the sea ??of ??blue glass, looking down there,
through great transparency, yellow rocks with sharp grass like branches
of coral green, pink shells, stars pearl, bright flowers quivering
fleshy petals to be touched by the belly Silver fish, and was now
in a sea of ??ink, lost in the dark, overwhelmed From their clothes,
having under his feet who knows how many boats destroyed, how many
bodies emaciated by the ferocious fish! And trembled at the touch
of his wet pants, thinking feel the friction of sharp teeth.

Weary,
faint, lay on his back, carried away by the waves. The flavor of the
meal rose to her mouth. Damn food, and how much it costs to win! There
would eventually die foolishly ... But the survival instinct made
him sit up. Maybe you were looking for, and being stretched would
go near him without seeing him. Another swim, with the anxiety of
despair, joining on the crest of the waves to see farther, going as
soon as another aside, waving always in the same circle.

Leaving
him like a rag fell from the boat. My God! So forget a man? ... But,
perhaps he was wanted at that time. A boat runs a lot, and soon they
had uploaded onto the deck and lowering sail, and would be more than
a mile.

And stroking this illusion, sank gently as if tirasen their
heavy shoes. Felt bitterness in mouth salty, blinded their eyes, the
waters closed over his shaved head; but between two waves formed a
small eddy, clenched hands and peered out again.

The arms were asleep,
his head bent over his chest as overcome by sleep. A Juanillo Heaven
seemed changed: the stars as red as blood splatter. No I was afraid
of the sea, felt the desire to be abandoned on the waters of rest.

She
remembered her grandmother, who at that hour would be considering
it. And he wanted to pray a thousand times had heard his poor old
woman. "Our Father ..." I prayed mentally, but realizing it, her tongue
moved, and said in a voice so hoarse that he thought of another:

-
Pigs! Thieves! I give up!

Sank again, disappeared struggling in vain
to stand. Someone threw their shoes ... Delved into the dark, sipping
water, inert, helpless, but not knowing how, turned back Once the
surface.

Now the stars were black, blacker than the sky, standing
like drops of ink.

It's over. This time they really get to the heart:
your body was made of lead. And fell in a straight line dragged by
his new shoes, and his fall into the abyss of broken boats and skeletons
eaten, the brain, increasingly surrounded by thick fog, kept repeating:

-
Our Father ... Our Father ... Thieves! Rascals! I have left!

A whistle

The
excitement warmed the theater. What a debut! What Lohengrin! Tiple
do that!

On the red of the seats in the courtyard stood out bareheaded
or towers ties, flowers and tulle, motionless, without approaching
the whisper or the boredom, in the boxes silence, no talk shows and
talks in a low voice, up in the raging inferno of the philharmonic
hall, ironically called Paradise, enthusiasm escaped long and loud,
like a huge sigh of satisfaction, every time the voice sounded the
soprano, sweet, powerful and robust. What a night! Everything seemed
new in the theater. The orchestra was angels until the spider was
more light center.

In this excitement took no small part patriotism
satisfied