 It was the first warning. If before the third had not killed the
bull, it would be returned to the yard, leaving the sword under the
weight of the greater disgrace.

Gallardo, as if awakened from their sleepwalking, terrified by this
threat, he horizontal the sword and threw himself on the bull.

A lunge again, that did not penetrate into the body much of the beast.

The left sword hang their arms in despair. But this bug was immortal ... Lunges did not cause a
dent. It seemed that it would not fall anymore.

The futility of the last coup angered the public. Everyone stood up. The whistles were deafening,
forcing women to cover their ears. Many brewing, throwing his body Later, as if to throw into
the square. Oranges fell in the sand, crusts pan, seat cushions, such as fast projectiles for the
killer. The lines of stentorian voices sun came out, roaring like
that of a steam whistle, which seemed impossible were the product
of a human throat.

Occasionally sounded a loud bell with a touch of alarm. Near the bullpen, a large choir sang
the dirge of the dead.

Many volvíanse to the presidency. When will the second warning? The cleanup Gallardo sweat with
a handkerchief, looking all around, as if surprised at the injustice
of the public, and being responsible for the bull that happened.

At this time the stage was set for Dona Sol This turned his back to avoid seeing the ring, you
may be pitied, perhaps I was ashamed of her condescension in the past.

Again he threw himself to kill, and very few could see what he did, because he concealed layers
open incessantly about him ... Fell the bull, throwing a pipe through the mouth with blood.

At last!

... The audience quieted down, ceasing to slapping, but continued shouting and whistling. The animal
was topped by the nailer, you pulled the sword, was engaged by the forehead to throw mules and dragged
across the arena, leaving a wide strip of land packed, and trails of blood that hits the waiters
deleted with rake and baskets Sandy.

Gallardo was hidden between the barriers, fleeing the offensive protest to raise his presence.
He remained there, tired and panting, with a sore leg, feeling of
disappointment among the satisfaction of being free from danger.

Did not die on the horns of the beast ... but I owed it to his discretion. Ah, the public!
Crowd of murderers who crave death a man, as if only they love life and have a family! ...

The output of the square was sad, when through the crowd that occupied the area around the circus
of carriages and cars, long lines of trams.

Gallardo's car rolled with slow pace, not to run over spectators groups leaving the plaza. They
departed to the mules, but he recognized the sword seemed sorry for
your kindness.

Gallardo sensed the movement of his lips tremendous injuries. Passed by the car other carriages occupied
by beautiful women with white blankets. Some turned their heads, as not to see the bullfighter,
others looked at him with eyes of pity heartbreaking.

The achicábase sword as if to go unnoticed, was behind the bulk the
National, frowning and silent.

A group of boys began to whistle along the carriage.

Many who were standing sidewalk imitated them, believing their revenge
and poverty that had forced them to stay an afternoon outside the
square hoping to see something.

The news of the failure of Gallardo had circulated among them, and insulted him, happy to humiliate
a man who earned enormous wealth.

The protest took the sword from his resigned silence.

- Cursed be! ... But why Sirba? "Han is perhaps in the running? ...
Do you have Costao the money?

...

A stone smashed into a car wheel. The vagabonds shouting along to the bracket, but came Two
guards on horseback and rid the demonstration, then escorted in style of the famous Calle de
Alcala Juan Gallardo ... "The man in the world."

X

Crews had just come out into the arena, when sounded loud knocks on the door Stables.

An employee of the square came to her crying with temper. Not coming through there, should find
another door. But a voice answered from out strongly and opened.

Came a man and a woman with white hat he Cordoba, she dressed in black
and mantilla.

The man shook hands with the employee, leaving in it something that humanized his fierce gesture.

-
I conose Nah, you, do not ?...-- said the newcomer -.

What I do not see cones? ... I Gallardo wedge, and this lady is his wife.

Carmen looked around at the abandoned courtyard. In the distance, behind the stout walls brick, hear
the music and could feel the breath of the crowd, cut screams Rumors
of enthusiasm and curiosity.

Crews were paraded before the president.

- Where is it? - Nervously asked Carmen.

- Where have you in this, woman? - Said the brother rudely -. In fulfilling its obligasión PLASA ... It's
crazy to have come, a nonsense.

This character so weak that I have!

Carmen continued to look around her, but with some hesitation, as have repented got there. What
would I do? ...

The employee, moved by the handshake Antonio and the relationship of those two People with a famous
matador, showed himself obliging.

If he wanted to await the completion lady the party could rely on the caretaker's house. If you
wanted to see the race, he would know put in a good place but do not carry cash.

Carmen shuddered with this proposition. Does watching the race? ... No. He had come to the square
with an effort of will, and he regretted it. He could not withstanding her husband in the ring.
She had never seen bullfighting.

He would wait there until it could more.

- Take Dio! - Said with resignation the saddler -. We quearemos, I do not know what to paint
here in front of the riding center.

Since the day before Encarnacion's husband was behind her sister,
suffering shocks and tears of an excited nervous fear.

On Saturday at noon, Carmen had spoken in the office of teacher. It
is going to Madrid!

Was committed to this journey. I could not live in Seville. Took about a week of insomnia, seeing
horrific scenes in their imagination. Her feminine instinct seemed
to tell a great danger.

Needed to run alongside John. I did not know for what purpose or what I could get on the trip,
but longed to be with Gallardo, with the loving desire to create
standing lessen the danger about your loved one.

That was not live. Had learned from the newspapers of the great failure of John on Sunday earlier
in the plaza in Madrid. Professional pride knew bullfighter guess
not tolerated with resignation this setback.

Going to do crazy things to win back the applause the public. The last letter he had received
from the vaguely implied.

- No, no - he said briskly to his brother -. I'm going to Madrid this afternoon. If you quies
me accompany, if not wishing to come, I'll go alone.

On too, not a word to Don Jose: I would clog the journey ... This does not know more than the mummy.

The
leather agreed. A free trip to Madrid, though it was in sad company! ... During Along the way,
Carmen gave shape to their desires. Strongly speak to her husband. Why continue toreando? Did
not they have enough to live? ... Should retire, but immediately, otherwise it would perish.
It was necessary that this run was the last ... Even this seemed too much. Madrid came in time
to prevent her husband torease afternoon. He said the heart their presence was to prevent a
disaster.

But the brother protested with great fanfare at this.

- What barbarism!

What you are women! It puts you one thing cabesa, and that has to be. Do you think there is
no authority, no laws or rules of place, and that it was sufficient
to woman comes to mind embrace the fear tené mario, pa to suspend
ran and quee the public a parm Naris?

... You say what you want John, but will aluego of the running.

The author does not play, we would go to the Carsel toos.

And the saddler imagined the most dramatic consequences if he persisted
in his foolish Carmen idea presented to the husband, preventing it
torease.

The worn them all. He looked already in prison as an accomplice to this act, which in its simplicity
considered a crime.

When they arrived in Madrid had to make new efforts to prevent their
partners are at the hotel where her husband was.

What was going to get through this?

...

- What are you going to chance your presensia, and go to the plaza aluego bad smoke, no serenity,
and if you argo happens, you will have the CURP.

This reflection tamed Carmen, causing them to surrender to the direction of his brother. Was allowed
lead to a hotel that he chose, and there was all the morning, lying on a sofa in his room,
crying, as if by some misfortune give.

The leather, be happy in Madrid, improperly installed, indignant against this despair, which
seemed ridiculous.

- Vamo, man! ... What you are women! One would think that you are a widow, and you Mario is breezed
this time as preparation for the running, Gen and healthy as Roger
himself Flor.

What tontunas!

Carmen just had lunch, deaf to the praise that taxed his brother the
chef the establishment.

In the afternoon, his resignation became to fade.

The hotel was located near the Puerta del Sol, and reached her noise and movement of people going
to the race. No, I could not stay in this strange room while her husband risked his life. Needed
to see. He lacked the courage to bear the sight the show, but I wanted to feel close to him:
he wanted to go to the plaza. Where would plaza? ... I had never seen. If he could not enter
it, wander around.

The important thing was to feel close, believing that this approach could influence the fate
of Gallardo.

The leather protested. For life ...! He had intended to attend the race; had left the hotel
to buy a ticket, and now Carmen aguaba the party with its commitment go to the plaza.

- But what are you doing there, baby? What are you going to remedy your presensia? ... Imagine,
if Juaniyo yega to see you.

Discussed at length, but the woman objected to all your reasons the same answer persistent:

- Do not come with me ... I'll go alone.

He finished his brother to surrender, and a rental car went to the square, entering it Stables
in the door. The leather is remembered much of the circus and its dependencies after Gallardo accompanied
one of his trips to Madrid for the spring run.

He and the staff showed themselves undecided and cranky woman with red eyes and sunken cheeks, still
planted in the yard not knowing what to do ... The two men they felt attracted by the sound
of the crowd and the music played on the square. Would they be there
all afternoon, without seeing the run?

...

The employee had a brainstorm.

- If the lady wants to go to the chapel ...

He had finished the parade
of the crews.

On the door leading into the arena again some trotting horses. Were the picks that did not round
and withdrew from the arena to replace their colleagues when they reached the turn. Tied to
a ring the wall were lined up six jacos saddled the first they had to leave the arena to replace
casualties. Behind them, the waiting choppers entertained by evolving their horses. A manager
of the stables, riding a skittish horse and brave, made her gallop
around the corral to fatigue, then delivering it to the boobies.

Coceaban the jacos, martyred by flies, pulling the ring as if he guessed
the nearby danger.

The other horses trotted, inflamed by the spurs of the cavalry.

Carmen and her husband had to take shelter under the arcades, and
finally accepted the wife of the bullfighter the invitation to go
to chapel.

It was a safe and quiet, and there could do something of benefit to her husband.

When he was in the holy part of a dense atmosphere by respiration of the public who had witnessed
the prayer of the bullfighters, Carmen fixed his eyes on the poverty of the altar. Burning four lights
at the Virgen de la Paloma, but she seemed to mean this tax.

She opened her purse to take a drive to the employee. Could not bring
more candles?

... The man scratched a temple. "Candles? "Candles? ... In the personal property of the square did
not think to find them.

But suddenly remembered the sisters of a matador, who brought candles where he was fighting.
Latest had just consumed, and should be stored in some corner of
the chapel.

After long gleanings found them. Candlesticks were missing, but the employee, human resources,
brought a couple empty bottles, and entering in your neck of the candles, lit them, placing them
next the other lights.

Carmen was kneeling, and the two men took advantage of her immobility
to run the square, eager to witness the first sets of the race.

He was curious women in contemplation of the blur, red by the lights.

No Madonna knew this, but should be sweet and kind as that of Seville, to which many Sometimes
he begged. It was also the Virgin of the bullfighters, which listened to their prayers Last time, when
danger was near the rough men pious sincerity. On that ground was kneeling her husband many times.
This thought was enough to who felt drawn to the picture, contemplating with religious trust,
which if known since childhood.

Moviéronse his lips repeating sentences with speed automatic, but
his thought fled Prayer, as drawn by the noise of the crowd that came
to her.

Oh, that intermittent roar of the volcano, that roar of distant waves, cut off from time to
time by breaks of tragic silence!

... Carmen is imagined to be witnessing the corrida invisible. Guessed by the various intonations
of the sounds of the square during the tragedy developed in the ring.

Sometimes it was a burst of angry shouting, accompanied whistling, others, thousands and thousands
of voices shouting unintelligible words.

Suddenly sounded like a scream of terror, long, loud, seemed up to the sky, a exclamation frightened
and panting, I did see thousands of heads stretched and pale with
emotion following the bull run fast, I was going to reach a man ...
until instantly cut the cry, restoring calm.

The danger had passed.

Extendíanse long periods of silence, a silence, the silence of the void, that sounded enlarged
the buzzing of flies outputs of the stables, as if the huge circus
was deserted, as if they had remained motionless and breathless fourteen
thousand people sitting in the stands and Carmen were the only living
thing that survived in her womb.

Suddenly he encouraged this silence with a loud crash and infinite,
as if all the bricks of the square is release from its interlocking,
giving each other.

It was a standing ovation that shook the circus. In the courtyard immediately to the chapel
sounded caning on skin of the wretched horses, cursing, hoofs and voices clash. "Who's playing?"
New choppers were called to the plaza.

These noises uniéronse others closer.

Steps in the rooms sounded immediate doors were opened with a bang: the voices could be heard
wheezing and several men march as if burdened by heavy weight.

- It's nothing ... a bump on the head. You do not have blood. Before the end of the run will be
biting.

And a hoarse voice, weakened by pain, as if it came from deep in the lungs, groaning, sighing,
with an accent reminiscent of Carmen their land:

- Virgen de la Solea! ... I think I've broken argo.

Look closely, Doctor ... Oh, my children!

Carmen shuddered with horror. He raised his eyes to the Virgin, deceived
by fear.

His nose seemed sharpened with emotion between the sunken cheeks and pale. He felt sick; feared
collapse on the pavement with a syncope of terror. Tried to pray again, isolated in prayer, not
to hear the sounds outside, transmitted through the walls with a sound desperate. But despite
these purposes, came to his ear a dark water splash and the voices of some men, which should
be physicians and nurses, encouraging the chopper.

This was complaining with a roughness of ranger rider, trying to hide at the same time, pride
virile, the pain of broken bones.

- Virgen de la Solea! My children! ... What will they eat the poor churumbeles if their partner does
not can sting? ...

Carmen rose. Oh, I could not anymore! Would fall if he was still slumped in that dark place moved by
the echoes of pain. I needed air, seeing the sun.

I thought felt in his bones the same punishment that the man was moaning unknown.

Went into the yard. Blood everywhere, blood on the floor near a vat, where the water mingled with
the red liquid.

Retirábanse the picks of the ring. They made the sign for the fate of flags, and coming riders
on their horses for blood, the skin torn and hanging their bellies the nasty Bandullos from the
bowels into the air.

Desmontábanse riders, talking with animation of the incidents of the
race.

Carmen was to stew alight with all the weight of his vigorous humanity, releasing a string of
curses the "wise monkeys" who helped him awkwardly on his descent. Seemed hampered by his hidden
iron legs and the pain of several bump. We had a hand in the back to scratch with painful stretches,
but he smiled, showing his yellow teeth of a horse.

- Have you seen ustés that has estao Juan Bueno? - Told everyone around him -. Today is Bueno
really.

When repairing the only woman in the courtyard and recognize, showed
no surprise.

- Nah, you here, Sena Carmen! Both Bueno! ...

And he
spoke quietly, as if he, in the drowsy you ever had wine and bestiality
itself, could not surprise you anything.

- Nah, you've seen Juan
?...-- continued -. It has been lie down on the floor, Elante the
bull, in hosicos themselves. What hase hase that bowed not anyone
... Peek a veil, which is now mu Guen.

They called from a door, which
was nursing. His partner wanted the chopper speak before he moved
to the hospital.

- Adio, Sena Carmen. I'll see what that probesito
Quie. One fell to fratura, according to design. This toa non-biting
in the season.

Carmen took shelter under the arcades, trying to close
their eyes to the disgusting spectacle the yard, but at the same time
he felt drawn to the dizzying red blood. 

The "wise monkeys' led
by the bridle the horses injured, who dragged their guts on the ground,
while dropping below the tail with diarrhea of ??fright.

Seeing them,
a manager of the blocks began to move his hands and feet, agitated
by a fever activity.

- Force !...-- brave young men shouted, addressing
the stables -. Hard! Drive there!

A stable boy, moving cautiously
along the horse, coceante of pain, deprived him the chair, throwing
her legs after the bonds of the stiff straps, joining the four limbs
and bringing down the animal to the ground.

- There, brave! ... Hard!
Hard on him! - Still screaming in charge of the stables, while moving
the hands and feet.

And the young men, rolled up, inclinábanse on
the open belly of the beast, that scattered around pools of blood
and urine, struggling to introduce a handful in the tragic rift heavy
guts hanging out of it.

Another held the reins of the animal and
pressed down on the floor putting the sad head one foot on it. Twitched
his nose in a gesture of pain clashed long and yellow teeth with a
shiver of martyrdom, lost in the dust the neighing, suffocated by
pressure foot. Fought the bloody hands of the healers to return to
the open cavity the flabby belly, but the heavy breathing of the victim's
swell, making them out of their confinement and scattering again as
packed scraps. A huge bladder inflated in the wreckage, hindering
the settlement.

- The comic, courageous !...-- shouted the director
-. Hard on the comic!

And the bladder, with all his heart attached,
finally disappearing into the depths of the belly, while two young
men, with the agility of custom, sewing the skin.

When the horse
was "fixed" with barbaric quickly, he threw a bucket of water head,
freedom legs of interlocking straps and gave him a caning to be put
in place. Some, barely walked two steps, hung round, spilling gush
of blood from the wound sewn with twine. It was instant death to recover
the belly position. Discover the secrets manteníanse strong force
animal resources, and the servants, after the "settlement", they carried
the "barnizaje" flooding their legs and bellies violent ablutions
with water buckets. The white or brown color of the animals was bright,
his hair dripping with pink liquid mixture of water and blood.

Mending
the horses as if they were old shoes, exploiting his weakness to the
last time, prolonging their agony and death. Were on the floor pieces
of intestines, cut to facilitate the operation of the "settlement."
Other pieces of his heart were in the ring covered with sand, until
the bull died and the boys could collect these scraps in their baskets.
Many times, the tragic emptiness of lost organs remediábanlo barbarians
healers with handfuls of rags placed on the belly.

The important
thing was to keep these animals stand a few minutes more, until picks
get back out on the square: the bull is in charge of finishing his
work ... And jacos dying suffered without protest the grim transfiguration.
Those who were resuscitated limping with loud strokes of the cane,
they trembled from the legs to the ears. A horse meek, in despair
of his misfortune, tried to bite the "wise monkeys' approaching. Still
kept his teeth and hair flaps of skin cells. To feel the tear of horns
on its belly, the wretched animal had bitten the bull's neck of lamb
with a fury rabid. 

Sadly injured horses neighing, lifting the tail
with noisy exhaust gases; stench of blood and feces scattered around
the patio plant, the blood was between stones, blackening on drying.

Until
there came the sound of the invisible crowd. There were exclamations
of concern; a "ay! Ay! "Launched by thousands of mouths, I did guess
the leak harassed banderillero closely by the bull. Then silence.
The man turned to the beast, and burst the thunderous applause greeted
a couple of flags in place. Then the trumpets sounded announcing the
kill, and repeated applause.

Carmen wanted to leave. Virgen de la
Esperanza! What was he doing there? ... Ignored the order would to
continue the slaughter in their work. Perhaps that touch marked the
moment when her husband would stand in front of the beast. And she
there, a few steps away, and without him! ... I wanted to escape to
escape this torment