 A string something blackish, with keys to watch and medals, there was a tendency for buttoning
cassock of a breast pocket. Two fingers were red from holding a cigarette snuff. The head, hard and
intensely black hair streaked with gray prematurely, partly hid under a round cap of silk, like
the one used by shopkeepers.

- Jose Fernandez, priest to serve God and you - said the priest doing
the presentation of person.

Showed the strong teeth of man field, with a humble smile that betrayed
a desire intimate with this fellow, the most prominent of those came
in the ship as opinion.

The music had stopped playing, and the priest took this silence to express the exuberance lacking
a wordy friends seeking opportunity to spread his eloquence. Spanish Openness Fernando treat
him confianzudamente a few words, just as if it were an old Comrade, accompanying each advance
of his intimacy with humble apology: "Pardon me, but here is not like on land. We spend our
lives together, we are in the solitude of the sea, confident to the will of the Lord ... "So
you also went to Buenos Aires, Fernando?

... Well, go! Here we go everyone and may the Almighty that the business will prove well, according
to their desires. "

Good cleric spoke without interruption, and Ojeda was sorting fragments of history These periods
confidential chat. He had his mother in a village in Castile Old, also unhappily married sister,
with a crowd of children, and all trusted him, that was the glory of the family, "the priest",
to be exceptional.

Last descendant of a line miserable day laborers had achieved emancipation from the bondage
of the soil Thanks to some ingenuity demonstrated resiliency in the village school and the protection
of an old lady who had paid for the career of the priesthood.

- Short Run, Don Fernando. I'm no theologian, I am not doctor anything. Mass and pot cure nothing
more, but I've worked in this life! And what is to punish me! ... My brother is unhappy, a good
man, not good for anything, and I have to keep, and poor old lady, and my sister, nephews and
all who believe themselves superior to others in the people because they have an uncle cure.
I have been vicar, working from dawn to night six reals a day: peseta and a half, Don Fernando.
He was pastor of bad alternate locations death, and after sending my mother what he earned (less
than you make a Civil Guard) I had to stay in the gifts of the poor parishioners. And yet the
village barber and other gossips whispered spoiled life we ??lead those of the Church ... When
lived in Madrid, near the district deputy, requesting a better job,
I've walked fact a sacristy sacristy Azacan of asking masses like
the begging.

He spent much hunger, I have no shame in saying: so hungry to hold mine, and so I there, to see
if I change my luck.

Jose paused, as if hesitated, afraid to express their ideas, and finally
went quietly

- They say Spain is a Catholic country, the most Catholic
of the earth.

That may be, but there in it two pesetas for the clergy of my class, so we work really. There
is money for the Church, but I have others ... others.

In the vagueness of his eyes, the timidity of her voice, there was some protest against those
who living at high altitude.

Fernando asked how he had thought the idea of ??travel.

- I have beyond seminary classmates. A boy who studied with me living in Buenos Aires, I have written
and wonders of the land, inviting me to go with it.

Before it was much better: missing people from our class, now, on vessels arriving priests of
all countries.

But no matter: the capital can live well in the shade of a parish, and there are the field, where
each week is founded a town and need a cure ... I have also classmates in Chile and other Pacific
nations. I think there still appears the best thing for us. They write that there are woman
who gives one hundred dollars to charity for a mass. And that does not happen in Spain one of
three pesetas! ...

Ojeda was pleased with the frankness of Don José when comparing the earnings of the priesthood
in the two hemispheres. Had done well to embark: surely there fortune awaited him.

- It's not so easy, Don Fernando, there is much competition. I say the Italian priests working
for what they provide, and have lower prices.

As many will help with a trade and when they return home church, are tailors or patching old
shoes ... In those land men are shown, as I know, something indifferent to us. The same than
in ours.

We must seek the support of women, and for this he has promised gift Isidro introduce these rich matrons
who speak with him and sit in the bow.

They seem very enthusiastic about the Italian bishop: "My lord, here, lord, there ', but I I'm
Spanish, and who knows? ... I'd find a rich woman to protect me.

Fernando smiled, somewhat amazed at the ease with which Don José made this statement. What cynicism
alone! ... And he wanted to accompany his smile touching his chest with a finger, but stopped
to see his look of surprise.

- You are mistaken, Mr. Ojeda.

I am a sinner unworthy of many things ... less at that. I have my faults, like all men, but
what you think ... Ever! I do not think never in such trifles. I am a real man!

Banged his chest with manly pride in making this statement, and admired the inconsistency Ojeda
the poor priest, who repeated as proudly as evidence of masculine virtue.

- I'm very man, Don Fernando, and that leaves me indifferent to the
sin in you fool think and it only provides scandals and headaches
... Other sins, I say no ...

A malicious grin wrinkled his cheeks
brown child, which was marked the spot the strong blue beard.

Were bared their teeth, dazzling, that they reported a large occlusal force. Surveying his
avid brightness, believed in the purity Ojeda the man. The pleasure he had contracted in all
its tentacles, to withdraw sordidly on the palate and stomach.

Maltrana had spoken sometimes insatiable appetite of Don José, how quickly that went into the
dining room just sounded the trumpet, the profusion with which gathered their hands sandwiches
and biscuits on trays for tea time, the enthusiasm with which he
praised nutritional abundance aboard the Goethe.

Its power capacity was only comparable by Isidro, that of a castaway
who is saved or an inhabitant of that beleaguered city gives up after
several years.

Forty generations of hungry laborers ate at his mouth.

At that moment, looking towards the promenade Ojeda port, saw he had
just Isidro leave their conversation with the ladies and went to him.

But he stopped before the family Nelida. The father, without leaving your seat, talking to
Martorell, the poet banking and Maltrana, after listening a few seconds, intervened in the conversation.

-
I need to break through, a lady to protect me - continued Don Jose -. But that is not easy in
our world there are fads, as in all the worlds, and vanities and categories. I am a poor priest
who knows only meet as a good worker.

- You ought to imitate - Ojeda said - to the French Abbe excites both ladies.

- Shut up, sir! - Protested the priest -. I'm not good puppeteer. The Spanish did not know make
comedies: we have more serious ... I am a real man!

And he summed up his anger with a fierce blow to the chest, saying several times that he was very
human.

- Maybe I ground my way easier. I am not a cure for fashion, but I'm healing Spanish, and that something
must be worth between people who are our blood, they speak our language and profess Catholicism
because Spain was the first to discover land. There is the Dona Zobeida good, that angel of kindness for
her there is no priest on board I: the bishop and the abbot, as if
they were shoemakers.

Hopefully it is resolved its lawsuit and change of fortune!

Certainly not forget me ... Furthermore, in the land, they say, excess money and wealth of the priests
McLean business. Some are dedicated to the breeding of horses or oxen, others lend money to
parishioners about the crops. But I came to work only on my own, to meet as well, and I am content
with little.

My happiness would be a parish in those areas where the meat is pulled, they say, and the bread
is same. My mother can not come, because he is afraid of the sea, but bring my sister, who guisandera
is fine, and evil will not place my brother and nieces and nephews career ... Lord so!

Stood irresolute and silent, as if his brain wave new and unexpected ideas.

- Forbid that the Almighty of a scam - he said - but I think, Don Fernando, that we in America
we are something. Maybe we do not know much or less daring that chatty beards, but we are more
serious, more simple. Our American Catholicism is more ... How do
I explain?

... more ...

- More classic - stopped Ojeda, to remove the priest from his predicament.

- That is - "Don José after a hesitation, as if he weighed poorly
understood word -.

More classic, according to the country, and so good and simple people are not cure fashion should
greet us better than those that seem foreign priests theater people.

Both remained silent, and Ojeda returned to have the same vision of the day before ... "Buenos
Aires!" Again this name was jittering world a moment, as flickering mystic lamp in the darkness
of the sacristy, evoking the illusion of a plentiful table, a table of fill, and around it
a strong and healthy family, secure the future, surrounding the priest
rich ... And there were all following the flutter of hope to a world
fertile solitudes faults of men, taking as the price of its entry
forces, initiatives and desires: some their arms, others their intelligence,
others eager to copulate avid capital with the land and reproduce
to infinity ... and until that poor priest had his mass, its Spanish
Catholicism, more serious, more ... classic.

The arrival of these meditations interrupted Maltrana.

- What does Don Pepe? ...

And accompanied by the familiar greeting with a gentle pat on the
abdomen of the clergy.

He leaned smiling. "What Don Isidro so cheerful and nice! ... It was impossible to be angry
with him ... "

To see together the two friends, the priest seemed to shrink in his humility.

- You have to talk - he said, looking at his watch -. Will be noon. Lunch time! I need a little tour to whet
your appetite.

And he walked away, followed by the laughter of Maltrana, which ironically lamented the lack
of appetite of the priest.

Ojeda asked what his friend had spoken with the father Martorell and Nelida.

- We were talking business - Isidro said with sudden gravity and an expression of mystery -
a big business that we hand. Who knows, within a year I'll be rich, very rich, but you, who wants
to go to the desert to plow the earth ... Friendships serve much, and I have them good.

The quizzical look and amazed Ojeda invited to continue in their confidence. Doubted a moment, as
if he feared the ridicule of his friend, then said resolutely:

- We will establish a bank just come to Buenos Aires ... Do not laugh,
Fernando; me as expected.

Is serious. Martorell puts the idea and technical experience. Mr. Kasper, Nelida's father, will
the capital needed to start off little, according to Catalan much of this understanding. I
... I do not know what I put into the business, but surely I will something, then I enter it,
and my associates seem happy to have me in their company.

Ojeda he fell out laughing so hard that his back hit the railing, bending the outside. "Maltrana
banker Maltrana founder of a bank when he was a bit of money to land !...»

- Do not make fun - he said, somewhat piqued -.

The thing is no big deal. Are we going or not going to land of riches and wonders? ... If you hear
that guy Catalan, the simplicity explaining things that convince the Bank is serious business.
And what's the big deal I get to be a great banker in a country where everyone, upon arrival,
change professions and each is found with powers and skills that are not suspected in Europe?
... Here in ship do not hear more than the millions and great business. We all have our gigantic
plan to amaze the New World and chained to fortune. Even those who became America's desperate
return with renewed vigor. Why not have Maltrana your business?

... Believe me, those who have founded banks were not worth more than that I never had the talent
Martorell, an eagle for these things.

After the first access of hilarity, Ojeda admired the conviction with which he spoke his Friend
of future business. He felt, indeed, the mysterious influence he had observed him on previous trips.
A broadening of the illusion, even more absurd ends unreal, dominated travelers. The isolation
in the middle of the ocean or nullified dwarfed all the obstacles encountered living on the mainland.
The immensity of the sea was dilate the brain and eyes. They thought big and they saw their
own ideas with retinas increase. And as the illusion of a no obstacles opposed to the hope of
others, all jostled wildly, assuming things done in this galloping
optimism.

Seat neighbors, during the first days of sailing had been regarded with hostility on the promenade
deck, buscábanse now, unable to live apart, and spoke hours future business hours designed
in partnership, without getting tired of fiddling to appreciate best merit, examining, as a precious
stone, facet by facet. A breath of heroism contemptuous of obstacles brains rattled. Old Europe,
meticulous, cowardly and retard, left behind, the propellers sent
by the frothing waters broken as a derogatory spittlebugs goodbye.

For the wind came ahead of the New World, breathing a land of courageous
without scruples or regrets, where the absurd wins, always it is accompanied
by the tenacity and courage.

If a business is required to land, the
land would be acquired. Future winners not know how or by what means,
but would be paid, y. .. enough. This was a little detail importance.
If required large capital, would be alike. There was no worry about
this. What was important was the business, the big business of great
novelty it had happened - news that was something old and traditional
transplanting of Europe - and calculated the safe gains: a month as
both a year, many millions at five years, believing in illusion strength
near the end of this fast run of luck. 

Some, with endless generosity,
they felt the desire to share his great fortune all relatives, and
every morning they admitted a new partner, graciously offered some
a new subsidiary, to the point of not knowing for sure what it would
deprive them of great inventors. Other, coarser soul, began to look
with suspicion and suspicious surveillance mutual fear of betrayal
in the business was yet to come. Hearts wealth shrinks and hardens.
Most extraordinary was that everyone detested the imagination and
a disgraceful and ridiculous power. 'No illusions: we must see things
as they are, and placed the case of exaggerating the worst. Let's
say you only win half, say that is only half of the half ... "And
after these calculations down, revealing his hatred all fantasy, always
turned millionaires.

The most enthusiastic and unwavering faith were
those who had been to America and returned to her a second or third
time. The newcomers, who listened with astonishment their prophecies
of wealth, suddenly seemed to doubt. European timidity was revived.
"I've been there, and I know what is that - said the old fellow -.
No fear, this time in my experience, I am confident of success ...
And Maltrana, mocking and skeptical, I was going to America without
knowing certainly why, he had been suddenly taken away, like the others,
for this hurricane optimism.

- Yes, sir, a bank - looking at Ojeda
repeated expression somewhat aggressive -