 He saw hundreds of fallen men, saw horses running treading guts. The harvest
of death had not been for sheaves: whole field was smooth with sickle-one punch. And if the
batteries in front divined the disaster, stepped meanwhile the fire, sending a rain of shells.
Fell on all sides. Beyond the castle, at the end of the park, opened a crater in the woods that vomited
whole logs. The projectiles pulled from their graves to the dead buried yesterday.

Those who had not kept throwing down the wall openings. Then they got up to precipitation. About
arming the bayonet, pale, her lips tightened and a brightness of madness in the eyes, others turned
their back, running toward the park exit, ignoring the cries of the officers and to the revolver
shots made against the fugitives.

All this happened with dizzying speed, as a nightmarish scene. Across the wall sounded like the
hum rising tide. He heard screaming, he thought he heard voices hoarse and discordant singing the
Marseillaise. The guns worked with speed, as machines sewing. The attack was about to get stuck again
by the furious resistance. The Germans, mad with rage, threw and threw. In a gap appeared red
kepi, legs of the same color trying to pass on the rubble. But the vision faded instantaneously
under the spray guns. The attackers should fall in heaps on the other side of the wall.

Desnoyers did not know with certainty how the mutation was performed. Suddenly he saw the red trousers
within the park. Passed with irresistible jump over the wall, slid down the gaps, fund came
from the woods by invisible entries. Soldiers were small, square, sweaty, with his coat unbuttoned.
And mixed with them in the clutter load, handles African devil's eyes and foaming mouths,
wide breeches Zouaves, hunters blue uniform.

German officials wanted to die. With his sword held high, after having exhausted the shots of their
guns, they advanced against the assailants, followed by the soldiers who have obeyed them. There
was a crash, a hodgepodge. The old man thought the world had fallen into silence. The cries of the
combatants, the encontrón of bodies, the din of arms, not represented anything after the guns
had fallen silent. He saw men stuck in the belly at the end of a rifle, while a red tip sticking
out through your kidneys, butts in high falling like hammers opponents embraced rolling on
the floor, pretending mastered with kicks and bites. Gone are the mustard-colored breasts, only saw
color behind the fleeing toward the exit of the park, filtering through the trees, falling in
mid-career hit by bullets. Many of the attackers wanted to pursue the fugitives and could not,
engaged in rude jerks release with a bayonet of a body that held
in agonizing spasms.

Soon found Mr. Marcelo in the midst of these fatal crashes, jumping like a child shaking hands,
shouting loudly. Then he woke again, bearing in his arms dusty head of a young officer looked
at him in amazement. Maybe you thought a fool to receive his kiss, to hear their incoherent words,
to receive on their cheeks a rain of tears.

He kept crying when the officer came off rude shove him ... needed to vent after many days of quiet
agony: Vive la France!

His men were already at the park entrance. Ran ahead with a bayonet in monitoring of the last remnants
of the German battalion that escaped into the town. A group of riders spent on the road. Dragons
were coming for extreme persecution. But his horses were exhausted, only the fever of victory, which
seemed to be transmitted from men the beasts, and held his trot forced and painful. One of
these riders were stopped by the park entrance. The horse eagerly devoured a few weeds, while
the man stood hunched in his chair as if asleep. Desnoyers touched
on one hip, he wanted to wake him, and immediately rolled to the opposite
side. He was dead, guts hanging out of his abdomen