 Leaving
the coast soon, I went to Tacna, and then began my ascension to the ridges on the road and
Tacora Palca, but instead of tripping over there with those steep and sharp ridges, which are
figured on the maps, I found myself on a very extensive plain, placed at a height of four thousand
five hundred yards above sea level, and which only became aware of a few moles here and there
cloud-covered cone. Crossing this exalted level, I came to meet then at the top of the chain
of Chulluncayani. Contemplating from there the very extensive extension that unfolded before my eyes,
and so large variety of objects that looks amounted to dominate the time, I savored a sense
of indefinable admiration. It is true that most picturesque landscaping are found in the Pyrenees and
the Alps, but never saw these look so great and so much majesty. Plain Bolivia, which has more
than thirty miles wide, you dilated at my feet by right and left out of sight, offering only
small parallel ridges, which seemed to fluctuate the ocean like ripples on the vast plain, where the
north-west horizon and the Southeast did not meet me to discover, while they looked towards the
north shine above of the hills that limited, some areas of the crystalline waters of the famous
lake Titicaca, the mysterious home of the children of the sun. On the other side of such a sublime
set could see the severe symptoms, which form the vast curtain of the Andes, interrupted with
peaks acute, representing the exact shape of a saw. Between these heights are raised the Guaina
Potosi, Illimani and Sorata snowy cone showing her oblique and flattened, these three giants of
American forests, which are drawn glowing snow, above the clouds in the dark blue background
of the sky more transparent and beautiful in the world. Towards North and South Eastern Cordillera
is declining gradually until completely lost on the horizon. If I had I felt full of admiration
in the presence of Tacora, here I was carried, and yet this was not only one of the faces in
that picture, because back towards the other hand, showed me a set of not less attractive. I
discovered even the Chipicani, the Tacora, and all the mountains of western plain, which had
just transpose, and on which my eyes had been arrested many times during the three days of
my traffic of the Cordilleras.

I went to the Bolivian plains situated even at the height of four thousand yards above sea level,
and that is the most populated of the republic.

I came to the city of La-Paz, the former Choquehapu (Gold country), named for its abundance
of this metal mines, gave the Aymara. This valley favored by the proximity of the Yungas, which is
three thousand seven hundred lifting beam, holds to the same time all the fruit markets of the
countries cold, the temperate and torrid zone. Immediately wrote to the government, forwarding my
letters of recommendation. In response he offered me his protection, and funds if needed, also
proposes a military officer and two youths to accompany me. Not wanting to abuse of such generous
offers, I accepted, with the greatest gratitude, only the last two and transportation facilities throughout
the republic, and from that moment, I considered and sure you can go with this beautiful and rich
fruit of the American continent.

Eager to see the province of Yungas, which they said to me many wonders,
dirijíme to Palca, and once placed on the summit of the Cordillera
Oriental, I was dazzled so by the majesty of the whole, which certainly
did not see but the vast extension without to realize the details.

It was no longer a snowy mountain that I thought to grab, no was a wide plain, cloudless and
without active vegetation .... Everything was different here. Turning towards the side of La-Paz
still sailing the arid mountains and the sky is always pure, typical the high plains. Everywhere,
at the level where I was, clad heights ice and snow, but what a contrast by the side of the
Yungas! Until five or six hundred yards below me, upholstered in green velvet mountains, and that seemed
reflected in clear skies and calm to this point, a border of white clouds, representing a vast
sea battering the flanks of the mountains, and above which rise to all highest peaks, appearing
islets. When the clouds parted, I discovered a unfathomable depth below this zone, the limit
of vegetation on, the green dark blue of the virgin forests that adorn everywhere so rugged
terrain. Full of joy at being surrounded by nature, so different from the one I had submitted
the western slopes and plains of the mountain, I want first to hide under this canopy of clouds,
a few moments to roam freely over the region of thunder.

I visited on Yanacachi, Chupi, Chulumani Irupana, etc., Alternately passing the riverbed to the top
of the mountains. The pompous vegetation of Rio de Janeiro you go away reproduced in these sites,
but with more splendor in a warm moisture encourages them even on the most rugged rocks, plants
prodigious.

After having studied in detail this province, so rich in production, followed by the same western
side, crossing uneven terrain, but rich in silver mines in the provinces of Sicasica and Ayupaya,
through Cajuata, Suri, Inquisivi, and Palca Cavaria to climb the mountain again east, where
my eyes fell suddenly, to a few thousand feet, on the rich valleys of Cochabamba and Clisa. What a singular
contrast with that of the cliffs where I was! It was the image of chaos next to the largest peace:
it was the nature sad and silent in the presence of more vibrant life. I saw it in the midst
of barren hills two extended plains cultivated and trimmed on all sides of huts and groves,
among which were distinguished large number of villages, and a great city to which we excel their
buildings as a queen among his vassals. Nothing can effectively compare to the sensation that
produces the appearance of these plains, covered with villages, plantations and culture, circumscribed
by a mountainous and barren nature, extending to more thirty leagues around the horizon lost confused.
One would think there's see promised land within the wilderness. If I ever tried had vivid
impressions presence of the beauties of that savage nature Boliviano great plain, and Eastern Cordillera,
where life does not fit all in all, it is nothing there regarding the man, they would not be
much higher, finding these places I animated, these buildings strewn plains, these rich fields
abound that aroused in my mind the image of my country!

Cochabamba and its surroundings were for a time the theater of my research, continuing then my
march towards the east, walked through a hundred miles of mountains quite dry, but cut of fertile
and deep valleys. During this journey I recognized on the provinces of Clisa, Mizque and the Valle
Grande, following the path of Punata, Pacon, Totora, Chaluani, Chilon, Pampa Grande and Samaypata
(the bench rest), the last inhabited place in the mountains of which only thirty leagues were
far from the fertile plains of the continental center.

Few days Later it was discovered, the top of the slope of Flask, the extended horizon of a flat hot
covered with forests, in whose center is granted the quiet town of Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra.

The study of this remarkable city and its contours occupied my attention for several months: past
them, I resolved to penetrate deeper in the lands inhabited. I was already as to three hundred
leagues from the sea, but also longing to know the pure populations Indians, I turned my place
on the east, towards the province of Chiquitos, atrevasando the Monte Grande, whose thick foliage
covers an area of ??more than sixty leagues, where vain Guests will seek out other savage animals.

Chiquitos Province, placed in the center of the Americas, has over ten and eight thousand miles
in area, and being very fertile their land, it can be grown all the fruits of the hot countries,
while in the mountains of Santiago could sown wheat and planted vines. I visited on San-Javier, Concepcion,
San-Miguel, Santa Ana, San-Ignacio, San-Rafael, San-José and Santiago, and just came to find
on these mountains in the spring of those regions.

While the hot sun toasted the surrounding plains, some charities clouds perched on top of the
mountains, had operated a total change in the appearance of nature. The trees were covered in a
sweet variety of foliage and flowers, the countryside luxuriously deployed its exquisite ropages.
Absolutely nothing could compare the beautiful station in Europe to a certain moment in the
torrid zones.

In France, for example, the leaves are sprouting little by little, and the cold and lack of
beautiful days are often feel even after late spring. In places, this is but the change Suddenly
a decoration. Nature is dead, lifeless, a very pure sky field illuminates a sad and almost deserted,
but a downpour occurs, and to the point, as charm, all things take a new life. Requires only
a few days for glazing Meadows greenery and fragrant flowers, and trees coated with these tender
green leaves, or with the flowers that precede them, giving to each one of them a bright color and smooth.
If the countryside flaunting their beautiful carpet, embalmed the air with perfumes softer, forests
have less other non-flattering beauty and variety. Here a tree laden with long clusters purple
contrasts with the glasses, and sky, and the purest gold, there stands a snow-white summit
meeting to more tender pink. I climbed with much rejoicing by those slopes, where vegetables
are so beautiful façade, with its jewels, or walked the meadows without knowing which site to
give preference, as each of them offered me a charm it was particular, a different type. I confess
that I never felt so amazed in the presence of the beauties of the ground covered by a canopy so splendid.

Leaving
very soon the little town of Santiago, and through immense forests and the river of Tucabaca, probably
intended to deliver rich gold mines, arrived at Saint-Heart, which is the easternmost point
of the inhabited places of the republic. Holy Heart was actually end that part of the world because
no one could then spend more later. So Therefore, calculating the massive benefits that would
result from the navigation of the Paraguay to commercial traffic and to the civilization of
the province of Chiquitos, and longing to be the first instrument of this giant, picked up all
possible data of indigenous used to traverse the forests, and I open
a way towards the ruins of ancient Holy Heart, where the river runs
Oxuquis, consisting of rivers and Tucabaca San-Rafael, reaching to
make sure that the high steep banks of this stream could provide,
in all seasons port and comfortable hotel within walking distance
of the Paraguay River, which flows a bit above the fort of New-Coimbra.

In 1831, these important data communicated to the government of Bolivia, making him see the positive
change that for the province and the whole republic would result in a new way of communication,
by the Rio de la Plata, the Atlantic Ocean.

Eager to explore another point of Chiquitos, through beautiful forests in the mission I set San-Juan,
and returned at once to San-Javier, where I also said goodbye to departed the province, after
six months I had dedicated to his study.

Amid the vast and gloomy forests that separate the vast provinces of Chiquitos and Moxos, and a large
complex, which is indicated in our best maps and unknown runs a navigable river but also ignored:
this river is the San-Miguel. Its banks covered of vegetation as luxurious as active, are inhabited
by a remarkable nation, such Guarayos are, they do in America, for their open hospitality and customs
quite simple and primitive, the poetic dream of a golden age. Among these men of simple nature, who
never tormented jealousy, theft, this moral plague grossest civilizations
as the more refined, it is not known.

If some I had often longed to lie in the abandonment seeing magnificent countryside, while
Europe so many unhappy peasants perish in misery, how much more acute sense should not be my
in the presence of those places, the most abundant that I had found
until then, and wherein a prodigious nature, and a special class of
vegetation, it seems be asking to use arms to come through the crop
producer!

Leaving the land of the Guarayos, I went and walked eight days paddling on the waters of San-Miguel,
whose margins are already covered with tall bamboos and palm fronds of palms. The river is
well boxed everywhere, so that vessels of all sizes can navigate there easily at any time.
Thus I got in the mission of Carmen de Moxos and visited this vast province, where, on a surface
of thirteen to fourteen thousand miles, thirty and three navigable rivers are offering to commerce
and industry in the middle routes already mapped one plain, which gives rise to all major
southern flows, tax the famous Rio de las Amazonas. Live there, divided into ten different nations
and speaking different languages, one people, all dedicated to navigation, and who know the smallest
twists and turns of these natural waterways, they cross daily in canoes made from a single
tree trunk, which is hollowed out by dint of iron and fire.

Navigating the Rio Blanco and Rio Itonama, and on a canoe through flooded plains, up to the Rio
Machupo, I visited on Concepcion, Magdalena, San-Ramon and San-Joaquin, remains of the splendid
past of the Jesuits.

About the last point found some iron mines, which embraced a two leagues have been placed by nature
as to facilitate tillage and give life to those regions not far from the river, and immediately
to very great forests.

I went down to the Machupo Itonama its confluent, and then leads the Guaporé or Iten, by which the Brazilians
up from the Amazon to Rio Mato Grosso, taking into their booths for goods from Europe. Actually
I found two of these boats in the Forte-do-principe-de-Beira, where
a Brazilian garrison.

This has Guaporé point more than half a mile wide, its waters are majestically in the midst of
fine margins and between islands of trees trimmed very picturesque. Down for him, I compared
mentally these deserts, sad and silent today, which will be when
an industrious population and encourage them to come to derive benefits
from their gifts, and when trade with Europeans, as in action, covering
the waters for steamboat to bring wealth and intellectual life.

I finally arrived at the confluence of the rivers Guaporé and Mamore,
and placed on the very tip the angle formed by the reunion of the
two major rivers in those regions, I hugged at a glance flows either.

Between both the most wonderful contrast. On one side, introduced Guaporé the symbol of the stillness,
dark forests extend to the edge of its waters, which are slow and majesty: the other, I offered
the Mamore the image of chaos and instability of things. Its red waters highly restless, crawling,
bubbling, countless pieces of vegetation, and even giant trunks, violently uprooted along the
banks of the stream. Nothing is stable on its passage. If one of its banks is almost naked terromoteros
cover of vegetation, and where they grow some annual plants, the other, armed with sandy gullies,
time crumbles time constantly undermined by the waters, dragging down trees that have centuries,
so the creeks are full of logs, that rising extraordinary have been piling up.

The Mamore Guaporé as wide as I showed on its shores and on its tributaries,
in the course of a voyage as a hundred leagues, the beautiful missions
exaltation Santa-Ana, San-Xavier, the Trinidad and Loreto.

Communications that existed between Cochabamba and Moxos were long, and mostly very risky this being
a huge barrier to trade established between the two points. So I decided to look for obiar such
drawbacks, a more abbreviated way, or a waterway in the midst of jungles and mountains, convinced
that with this I would do a service to Bolivia able to give his government a testimony of
my gratitude for the many favors that he was just borrowing.

A little south of the Trinity, I had noticed on the west bank of the Mamore mouth of Rio Securi,
unmarked on maps, and whose course even in the same country was unknown. This mighty river,
which comes more directly from the mountains east of Cochabamba, should help implement my
project, but wanted to make sure everything by myself, for if they were not exaggerated the difficulties
of communication hitherto existing.

Indeed left the scorching plains of the province of Moxos, flooded
a part of year and embarking in a canoe, helped by the Indians Cayuvava
the best rowers the area, climbed the Mamore river to its confluence
with the Chapare, and for this, then, to its junction with the Rio
Coni.

Finally, on the fifteenth day of an arduous voyage, during which I had not seen anything but forests
and the small part of heaven for the deep furrow in the rivers in the middle of that perennial
sea of ??green, I came to find with the nation of the Yuracares, at the foot of the last slopes of the
Cordillera Oriental.

The virgin forests of Brazil, so perfection and grace has been transferred
to canvas the brush of one of the best French artists, in no way resemble
the places where I was.

In these, nature aided by a hot temper and constantly wet, has taken such a development, that
there is nothing that can compare. The whole of anditos vegetation there four different account.
Trees of eighty to one hundred yards of elevation form a canopy of green life, often glazed with more
vivid colors and purplish flowers, trees that are entirely covered, and the vines, such as hair
falling to the ground.

That's where countless species of fig trees walnut, and mulberry trees mingle with a crowd
of trees, each of which represents a true botanical garden by parasitic plants that cover
them. Below the first rank, and as protected by it, soar to the height of twenty to thirty yards
thin trunks and rights of palm trees, foliage covers a very varied in its forms, and bunches of
flowers or fruit that court to contention most beautiful birds. Below, still grow, as three to four
yards high, other palms slightly thinner than first, and to which the slightest breath of wind would
unravel, but only the north wind Waving the top of the giants of
the vegetation, which rarely let a few rays enough sun to reach the
ground, which is also decorated with more plants varied miscellany
of elegant ferns to cut sheets, small palm with leaves whole, and
especially of horehound an extraordinary lightness and delicacy.

Is not a slip under this shadow for life, one can visit all the points without bothered by the
thorns and brambles. Who was given this wonderful painting show, and express the feelings he
inspires? The traveler feels transported, his imagination is exalted, but if waking from his trance
descends into himself, and dares to be measured when confronted with a creation so awesome,
how is null and meager! And how then by awareness of their smallness and weakness in the presence
of so much greatness, comes to pass out your pride!

Leaving these beautiful regions, say first to my ascent on the mountains between thousand cliffs, and
as I got up, looked quickly change to the nature of a and appearance.