 Truth who have gone to a better life. But I think I am watching ...
Were surrogates of Antrines Garcia, is not it?

- Yes, ma'am. I also tried them a lot.

They were friends of my house and I have very present them in my
memory ... I think I am seeing with his old cut black coat ...

-
So, so.

- Its sole neckties, and those hats that looked like the
tower of Santa Maria ...».

Continued the conversation with this vague fluctuation between reality and imagination, and
therefore Benina up the street, down the street, and with a clear mind, calm the spirit by possession
of a rate not less than three dollars and a half, I thought that all of tracamundana Almudena
spell was simply deceived fools. More likely to see success in the lottery, that is, more than
say, a work of blind chance, because who says that does not go through the air, an angel or a
demon invisible takes out the big ball, knowing beforehand who owns the number? Why things are
so rare: for example, that is distributed the prize among many poor people who came together
to that end, making this a real, the other one peseta. With such ideas came to think who would
give a share modest, as one tenth acquire it seemed to him many adventures. With his partner Petra
Fourth and kilo, which proved fortunate in almost all backgrounds, did not want bills, better
be understood for this business Polished mate begging in the parish, which had combinations
of moves that made lotteries in neighboring Burrero Obdulia; and to take her in his house before
she would go to ask, he quickened his pace towards the Street Head, and gave background on the
establishment of asses milk. In the stables of those peaceful beasts Pulido gave shelter to
the dairy honest, good people and humble. A Burrera sister of tickets sold on the streets,
and an uncle of Burrero, which had the same business in the same street and house, years ago,
the fat had been removed and retired to his people where he bought land. The crowd was perpetuated,
as in the establishment, habit forming vicious, and the date of this history, what had spent
in fifteen burreros years of plays, they could have won triple the asses they had.

Benina was lucky to find the whole family together, back the asses of his morning excursion.
While I devoured these bran, the sound is entertained in making calculations of probabilities, and
appraise the reasons could be found certainty that come out winning the next day 5005, which had a tenth.
Pulido, examining the case with their powerful inside view, that the blindness of the eyes prodigious
body is increased, clinched the conviction of the burreros, and in a prophetic tone told them so
true was that the 5005 award would, as there is a God in Heaven and the Devil Hell. Needless
to say that the claim fell on that stubborn Benina family as a bomb, and that the first impulse
was to deny all involvement at all seeking, because it was tantamount to give him lots of money.

Peaks
the beggar, saying that was three quarters to throw in a decimito, for her, and this bold stroke was
its effect.

Finally, it was agreed that if she bought the tenth, they would take him half, giving it a real
participation of two the magical 5,005, number safe, as safe as looking pregnant. This was done:
left Benin and took a little while one tenth of 4,844, which, seen by others, and heard singing
by blind, controlled the gang lottery throughout the greater confusion and bewilderment, as if
lucky mysterious art had passed from one to another number. Finally, made themselves the treatment
combinations to please everyone, and spread the papers Burrero participation the old staying
with six real in his and two on the other. Pulido went grumbling and went to his parish in
a bad mood, saying that this church had pocritona been to remove the lot, the burreros Obdulia
be ranted against, saying they paid bought bread and pots of flowers, and that the landlord was
going to plant in the street, and Benin went to see the girl, whom he found in the hands of the
hairdresser, who was trying to fix a pretty head. That day her in-laws had ordered meatballs and
marinated sardines; Luquitas had come home at six o'clock, and still slept like a puppy. Thought
the girl go for a ride, eager to see gardens, trees, vehicles, smart people, and hairdresser
told him to go to Retiro, where would these things, and all the beasts of the world and also swans,
which are a comparative, long neck geese. Knowing that Frasquito patient, was collected at the
home of Doña Paca, the girl was sincere grief, and wanted go see him, but took it off Benina
head. Better to let him rest for a couple of days, avoiding conversations delusions, which upset
the brain. Concurring with these discrete reasons Obdulia goodbye to her maid, persisting in
going for a walk, and the other olive-hurriedly took to the streets of Ruda, where deudillas
want to pay little money. Along the way he thought he should give up some of the excessive
amount spent on lottery and this order was intended to find the blind Moor for me to play a quarter.
Safer this was not the operation of calling the spirits Soterrana ...

This thought, when he found himself face to face with Petra and Diego, who came to sell, bringing
between the two, hand for hand, basket with ordinary notions trinkets. They stood with wanted
to tell you something wonderful and certainly the interest: "Do not
know, master?

Almudena the're looking for.

- Me? But I want to talk to him, see if he wants to take me ...

- It will take your measurements. That said ...

- What?

- That's furious ... Mad lost.

To me nearly killed me this morning of the dislike of me. Finally, the dislocation.

- Moved to Santa Casilda ... Cambroneras be.

- It has given the tarantaina, dancing on one foot alone. "

Burst into laughter the two sluts out of tune, and Benin did not know what to say. Understanding that
the African was ill, said he thought going to San Sebastian after her, to what replied the others
had not come to ask, and if the teacher wanted to find you, seek them Arganzuela toward or into
the street of the Rock, since in that direction they had seen little before. Benina to where
it was told him, briefly released in the street matters of Ruda, and after circling the brook
and up and down repeatedly Rock Street, saw the Moroccan, who left
the house of a blacksmith.

Came to him, took him by arm y. ..

"Release me, release me you said the blind man ...-- shuddering from head to foot, as if receives
an electric shock -. Poor you, winning you ... I kill you. "

Alarmose the poor woman, warning in the face of his friend very great
confusion: contracted and lips swelled with convulsive vibrations,
disfiguring his usual physiognomic expression; hands and legs trembled
and his voice was hoarse.

"What are you, Almudenilla? What fly has bitten you?

- Chop you me, fly bad ... Viner me ... I want to talk tigo. Bad Muqui be you ...

- We go where you want, man. If you think you're crazy! ".

Fell to the Round, and Morocco, knowing that land, led to the gas factory, carried away by her
friend by the arm. Passed by narrow paths to walk the Acacias, without the good woman could obtain
a clear explanation of the reasons that strange uneasiness.

"Let's sit here - Benina said upon reaching the tar factory -;'m cansadita.

- We do not ... more abaixo ...».

And they burst through a very steep trail, opened in the embankment. Had shot the two slope if Benina
not hold his moderating pace, and it sure where put the plant. They came finally to a place
lower than the ride, broken ground, full slags seem lavas of a volcano left behind homes, grounded
at higher altitudes the heads of them had roofs of homes before poor,
their lowest level feet.

In the riots of that hollow distinguished miserable huts, and far away, oppressed between the
moles of the Asylum of Santa Cristina and workshop Chainsaw, the neighborhood injuries, where
destitute families swarm.

They both sat down.

Almudena, taking snorts, wiped the copious sweat from his forehead.

Benina did not take his eyes, listening to his movements, as it did not have them all, seeing
alone with the mad Moroccan place so lonely. "Let's see ... masters ... to see why I'm so
bad and so misleading. Why?

- Poique you n'gañar me. I knowledge acquired you, you quiries other ... Yes, yes ... Lord
Bunite, cabaiero Beau ... you wanted him ... Weasel him home sick ... You bring him your house
... knowledge acquired yours ... knowledge acquired ... rich him, sir him ...

- Who told you these potatoes, Almudena? - Said the good woman, laughing with all his soul.

- Do not deny you anything ... Your n'fadar me you me ...». riyendo

By
speaking thus possessed of a sudden fury, rose, and before Benina
could sense the danger that threatened her, she burst upon the club
in full strength.

Thanks that could save the unhappy head apart strongly, but the shoulder, no. She wanted to snatch
the stick, but before that I tried got another whack at shoulder, and a third in the hip ... The
best defense was the leak. In a blink eye, the old woman was ten paces of the blind. It tried
to follow, she sought him turns, is placed in a safe place, and he vented his furious blows in the air
and soil. In one of these fell face down, and stood there as if it were the victim, biting land,
while the lady of his thoughts he said: "Almudena Almudenilla, if you lame see ... Tontaina, borricote
!...».

XXIV

After rolling on the floor with epileptic contraction of arms and
legs, and hit face and pulled by the hair, releasing guttural exclamations
in Arabic, which Benina did not understand, began to mourn as a child,
sitting as a Moorish style, and continuing in the job to pound on
the front and stick fingers in his face convulsed.

She wept with bitter disappointment, and the tears subsided without
doubt, its mad fury.

He approached Benina a bit, and saw his face flooded with tears that
moisten the beard.

His eyes were a source through which his soul was unloaded a stream
of infinite worth.

Long pause.

Almudena, plaintive voice of boy punished, affectionately called
her friend.

"Nina ... Amri ... "To be here with you?

- Yes, my son, here I am
watching you mourn as San Pedro after he did the dirty trick of deny
Christ.

Do you regret what you did?

- Yes, yes ... Amri ... Have you stuck! ... "Pain you mocha?

- I bet it stings me!

- I mean ... yorando me days mochas, poique paste you ... Amri, you
forgive me ...

- Yes ... forgiven ... But I do not trust.

- Take
your club - said extension - Come qui ... be me.

Take my strong suit and give up you have to kill me.

- I do not trust, no.

- Take thou this cochilo - added the African
interior bag drawing tool Reefer shear -.

Pa grocery store I hit you ... You kill me with him remove my life.

Mordechai did not want life ... death itself, death ...».

As one who does nothing, Benina seized two guns, stick and knife, and pulled without fear and
the unfortunate blind, put her hand on his shoulder. "I have a party bone, because it hurts
mocha - he said -. To see where I am cured now ... No, no broken bones there, but I have set up a
morcillones as my head, and arnica I spent this afternoon you have to pay me.

- I give you ... life ... Forgive me ... I months Yorar mochas, if you do not forgive me ... Be
crazy ... I want you ... If you do not want me, I kill them if he Almudena.

- Good going. But you have taken some curse. Go, get out now with that story of falling in
love Me! But do not you know I'm an old, and if you saw me you would fall back of fear did you?

- Not being old you ... I knowledge acquired you.

- You want to Petra.

- No ... B'rracha ... ugly, bad ... You be muqui a single ... Do not be another me. "

Without giving any respite to his intense grief, cutting words with deep sighs and continuous sob,
slow tongue to the utmost, Almudena said what I felt, and indeed that if Benina could understand
language so strange, it was not for the value and meaning of concepts, but by the force of truth
that the Moroccan put in their modulations very strange, howling, desperate cries and muffled
whispers. Told him that since King Samdai pointed to the single women, to follow him and seize
it, he went running around the earth. But the way, more women going forward, unable to ever achieve.
In time, believed that the fugitive was Nicole, which he spent three years wandering life.
But it was, soon saw it was not. His forward, always forward, and without being seen entapujadita
face ... Sure, he saw the figure in the eyes of the soul ... Well then, when he met Benin a morning
that was first introduced it in San Sebastian, led by Elisha, heart, wanting to fall out of the
chest, said: "This is, this alone, and no other." Most spoke it, the more convinced it was his, but
wanted to pass time, and Priebe better. Finally came the certainty, and he waiting, waiting
for a chance to tell her ... Thus, when told that the gallant Bunite Benina wanted, and that
he had brought home no less than by car, he became such a disappointment,
followed by dreadful fury, man did not know whether killing or kill
... The best would be consummated at a time the two deaths after having
sent for the other half of humanity the world, delivering blows to
right and left.

Benina heard with interest and pity this story, here given, not to tire, reduced to minimum proportions,
and as she was a woman of good sense, did not make the lightness
of conceited with that African passion, nor did irony for her, as
seemed natural, considering their age and physical condition of the
unfortunate blind.

Staying at a mean of discretion, looking only for an immediate end to his friend to calm down,
away from its mind the ideas of death and destruction. Beau Explicole what Bunite, trying to
convince that only a feeling of love Tell them moved to take him to the house of his mistress, without
that mediate it love, or anything concerning the relations between
man and woman.

He did not by Mordechai convinced that finally raised the issue in terms that justified the truthfulness
and firmness of his affection, namely that he believed what had just
told Benina, convenient that show him with deeds, not words, that
the wind blows.

And how do you prove it with facts, so he is fully satisfied and
convinced?

Then in a very simple: leaving everything, his wife, his house, trouser
Bunite, went to live with Almudena, and being together and the two
for life.

Replied the old woman not outright denial not excite you anymore, and simply introduce disadvantages
sudden abandonment of his wife, he would die if she is separated. But all these reasons, opposed
the Moroccan, others strengthened in the jurisdiction and laws of love they all overlap. "If you
want me, Amri, tigo marry me."

When you offer in your white hand, accompanied by a sigh of tender and squeamish shame, with their
enormous lips to the ears dilated or contracted form a monstrous snout, Benin could not help but
chuckle of derision. But holding back instantly went to the response to this discreet argument:

"Son,
so called because you could be ... I appreciate your finesse, but I have met repairs sixties.

-
Comply Failure to comply sisenta, milienta, I want you.

- I am an old woman who is useless.

- Served, Amri, I want you ... mais that light you Bunite; girl you.

-
What nonsense!

- Migo Casar trol, and Dirna Migo with you to my terra,
terra de Sus. My father Saul, rich him My Germans, they rich and my
mother Rimna rich Bunite her ... you want, you dicir daughter ...
Terra see mine: oiled mocha, orange mochas ... meat my father mochas
... mochas trees it is the river, big house ... d'fresh water wheel
... Bunite, neither hot nor cold. "

Although the paint slightly influenced
so much happiness in his mind, would not let seduce Benin and as a
practical person saw the disadvantages of a sudden travel to countries
as distant which would be among unknown people, speaking a language
of all the demons, and surely it would be differentiated by the customs,
religion and even clothing, because there they went to fixed-loincloth
... She would Bonita loincloth! Well, he could think about the good
things Mordechai! Showing affection and gratitude, I argued with the
disadvantages of rainfall in a matter as serious as getting married
of bat, and run a jump no less than Africa, which is, as one says,
where they begin the Pyrenees. No, no: you had to think slowly and
take time to not come up with a boob