 A bluish cloud crossed the fumes that surrounded the mountain and like a piece
of heaven. She replied: "Yes, but this is a hoax: the sky is closed." I replied: "Soon will open."
Gradually became covered the whole landscape, all colors had disappeared, there were no other colors
than white and the black: the mountains black, leaden water, the silver foam, the gray clouds,
sunrises puffs, puffs pale, iron-colored clouds. She said: "Does not it seem a watercolor?" I approve,
and then I added: "In this there is so much beauty as when the sun shines." I kept talking.
Added an inner light that illuminated my whole life, my eyes no longer saw everywhere else
what forms of beauty. His pale beauty was wonderful at this time, appeared to reflect all the
pale of nature around us. I took her hand. A heat of life transmitted from the hand to my body.
She withdrew, more pale. I said nothing, but the tears rushed to me in the eye. She said:
"You understand that we must part." My answer was: "His will is always fulfilled. If you want,
will depart tomorrow. Wait from afar. And if you want do not wait, do not feed more hope, try to forget.
Difficult it must be to destroy the hope that governs our life and think you know my pleasure,
my pride, my vanity, are to be as you wish ... "Everything had disappeared our view: the whiteness
of clouds, blackness of the forests are cleared and confused in a gray uniform. The rain began
to fall. She shuddered. I returned to turn his hand. I wanted to tell her that this was the
last salute, which could leave your hand in mine last time. I could not speak. She did not withdraw
his hand, and I still did not utter a syllable: a riot confused me ideas ...

- Would not you noticed the terrible struggle she felt inside?

Upon hearing this interruption, candle plant shook his head sharply.

-
I do not know, I know ... Too many thoughts assaulted me and wanted
to leave at once, but idea I was concerned above all others: "If I
speak will withdraw its hand."

The veil of mist would evaporate and, as the lake appeared, the foaming
waves that rose and dissolved then, produced the same impression left
by climbing fast, stunning.

A slice of heaven was like a smile. I said, 'Do you see the blue sky ?...» She got up.

- What next? - Asked the judge to see that the narrator is silent.

What the youth had to say should be more serious, had to be contrary to the prosecution, to
do it and stop your story.

- What next?

Tell me everything must say it all!

- She talked about the other.

I knew it was not love, but the duty that bound him to it.

On rising he said these words: "I do not deserve your love. I applaud the sincerity and I demand
to others I've missed me. You know, and I've said, I am not free ... But the man with whom I had
left was united, you did not see my hand, both could believe that never return. Now ... is
here. If you want me still considers, do not tell me anything else ... "

- Do you see?

Do you see?

- I answered it: "Be as you wish, but this man was going to leave
you again ..."

- Do you see