 Shortly after taking the capital of this
rich province, ie June 15, Bolivar entered it preceded the warmest and expressive tokens of appreciation
and enthusiasm of the people of transit. From here he moved Guayaquil, where the shouts of joy
were reproduced from then to Cuenca, from which point put at the disposal of the government of
Peru is a division of 4,000 Colombians.

San Martin ran to find Bolivar, and July 25 in Guayaquil embraced two brave warriors, having started
from both ends of the New World, were to confer about the independence of his country under the burning
sun of Ecuador. Three days passed together these two American heroes, not a single moment
they saw one without the other, but the outcome of his talks remained shrouded in mystery
night. Only known that Interviews though the most attentive kingdom cordiality between them, their
separation, however, were not those that the friendship reveals the outpouring of enthusiasm
or the tenderness of a Live affection. Among the political ideas of these two eminent men stood
perhaps a high fence.

The royalists occupied at the time, not only all of Upper Peru, but also most Lower, and were
very encouraged and hopeful because of his recent triumphs. The Patriots possessed only in Lima
and the countries located on the northern coast; also were separated in different political
parties, which undermined its force base the common cause of South
America, and metal resources were not over, before the contrast, were
short.

Such was the situation of Peru from late 1822 to mid-1823.

On 8 April this year, Colombia's Congress met again, and authorized on July 4 the freedom to
pass to get their aid to Peru, the most notable event of that legislature. We know that after
the interview had called dictator of that country and the illustrious Caracas. In the course
of the same year the city was preparing Montilla Axe an expedition against Maracaibo, combined with
the effect commanded naval forces Colonel squad leader Jose Padilla, who can judge the risky
venture of force bar, an operation which was offered to fulfill and
accomplish his May 8 with only the loss General Bolivar's brig, commanded
and owned by Captain Nicolas Joly.

Once free to cross the lake, where I get to lord it in late June, and while General Francisco Esteban
Gomez, sick of Montilla, was headed against Maracaibo, Morales strengthened their squad with
two schooners that was bringing Captain Laborde Curacao. Gathered in Zapara Spanish fleet,
anchored on July 22 between Maracaibo and the island of Captain-Chico. The independents were doing
so in Altagracia Punta Piedras. Both fighters, in sight of each other, waiting for the wind to
be undertaken when patriots when they had been favorable, boarded the 24, three hours after
noon, the enemy and fight renidisimo'm locking a winner Padilla. The royalists had 800 casualties in
dead and wounded, 420 prisoners from more official kind of army and
navy.

The Patriots were 44 officers and men killed and 119 wounded.

Weapons Republican, favored for their courage and good cause, marching seeding for the way the
laurels of victory and adding one each day over the colossal stone building independence. Where
there had discouraged by their fruitless efforts the former rulers of Venezuela, ceded the
field to the brave and freedom fighters. On August 3 chapter Morales under the most generous
terms of the Republicans who doing so will be crowning glory and twelve days after the candle is
to that memorable general due to the island of Cuba. In the rest of the year Coro and Puerto Cabello,
the last bastion of Spanish domination in Venezuela, also fell into the hands of the brave
and meritorious children of the New World, whose heroic came spilling
blood for so many years, and finally to leave the 1823, could exclaim,
waving the flag of Colombia: "We are already free."

CHAPTER XI

Bolivar in Lima .-- The public spirit in Peru .-- Lost. - Dissolution of Congress .-- The Libertador
organized a major expedition .-- Passage of the gorges of the Andes .-- Victoria Junin Colombians in
the Troops .-- .-- Break Spanish. - Combinations Bolivar .-- strategic directs the High Battle of Ayacucho
Peru .-- .-- .-- Entry Capitulaciones Bolivar in Lima .-- Call for a reunion of Congress .--
The .-- reunion and actions Republic Surrender of Callao Bolivar .-- .-- Emancipation of South
America made Considerations .-- .-- Principia to disturbed the order
among Venezuelans decreed against Paez Deposition .-- .-- Revolt of
Valencia. - Assembly .-- parties caused by the Federalists of Caracas.
- Bolivar is heading to Venezuela .-- Proclamation given in Maracaibo.
- Events of Peru.

The 1 deg. September, 1825 had made its entry into the liberator Lima, where he was sworn in dictatorial
power, with authorization to dispose of all resources of the country; but given the opposition of some
political parties, and realizing that the elements solvents that undermined its noble undertaking
would not be possible to reach the end which had proposed Trujillo
retired.

Thus abandoning the capital, was soon occupied by the royal troops Canterac under General.

In early 1824 the state of the cause of independence was pitiful in Peru and marched despondently
to ruin. Missed the February 5 strengths of Callao, was dissolved Congress, putting in Bolivar
hope of their salvation. The illustrious leader Colombian even if it were not for their ardent
love for the cause of freedom of South America, I could not watch with indifference the dangers
that would come to threaten the work done by the up there if the arms enthrone Spanish arrived
in Peru, and when he received the sad news was the latest disaster in the province of organizing
troops Huamalies and waiting for reinforcements from their republic to continue operations at
its own risk may oppose in a little to the misfortunes that occurred
an army of 4,000 patriots country and 6,000 Colombians.

Then crossed the passes of the Andes, while those of Jauja Canterac garrisoned and placed their
outposts in Houses, and marched resolutely on Pasco. The Spanish general, who know the direction
followed by its opposite, is heading the same point in order recognition practice. Here he learned
that on August 5 had been taking for Bolivar the right of Lake Junin, and fell in the act to
hinder the enemy forces came to be at your back. By practicing this movement, and have three
days undertaken, Canterac was hit by Bolivar and the royalists suffered
a major defeat in Or Pampa Junin de los Reyes.

The winners Canterac followed in pursuit of that, on and in good order, was retiring to Tarma, Jauja,
Huancayo and Huamanga, and arrived at Cuzco with a loss more than 2,000 men. The liberating
army Huamanga not pass until after he had rested there for about a month, at which time, as he
had his boss, General Sucre was to Challuanca go on to threaten the enemy's rear, while he
practiced a recognition of the Apurimac, operation in which the winter came to surprise suspended
and that after this debian verified. Bolivar then moved by powerful causes, he separated from
his army, leaving him in winter quarters, and headed the Alto Peru in order to prepare the necessary
means to close the hood and at the same time to organize good governance
in that country.

Later, on December 9, the troops were crowned with laurel Sucre in Ayacucho, reaching a decisive
victory over Spanish arms, commanded by Laserna, then viceroy of Peru. A nearly 9,500 men ascended
the viceroy's forces, while not arriving at 6,000 the general command of the republic, but well
combined and skillfully directed the plan battle, the royalists were completely undone, remained
in the hands of Sucre, in addition de Laserna, 15 generals, 16 colonels, 68 lieutenant colonels,
484 officers, 3,200 soldiers, corporals and sergeants, 11 pieces of artillery, a large number of
rifles, ammunition and finally, all the military equipment belonging
to the enemy, who had been placed in the case of surrender by capitulation.

On

this memorable day, the brightest of which took place in South America, with the head that reached
heroically distinguished Jose Maria Cordoba, English Miller and Gen. Lamar. According to the foundations
of the Spanish capitulation was forced to surrender countries still dominated by them in the
Upper and Lower Peru and the victors to spare the lives and property of the vanquished and their
supporters, paying also travel to the peninsula Army individuals who request them. The immortalized
the Battle of Ayacucho name of the brave son of Cumana, as good a patriot as a virtuous citizen,
as skilled as noble general.

The next day the battle Bolivar Lima and expedia entered a decree which summoned a congress on 10 February
next year. After that date, and already met the first acts of this body were directed to express
in a solemn manner his gratitude to the liberators of the country, ordered it opened a medal
in honor of the Liberator and the Lima's main square was erected a statue. You made the present
of two million pesos, for one it circulated among the generals and other military classes,
reserving the other for himself, which he refused with dignity, and distinguished himself while General
Sucre the title of Marshal of Ayacucho. After Bolivar conferred on the executive, and he asked
Colombia permission to accept it, because, according to his words on this occasion, he recognized
monstrous that the authority and improper.

Republic under the name of Bolivar (Bolivia later), constituted by a General Assembly, declaring
independence in the provinces of Upper Peru to July 10 the same year 1825 and entrusted the executive
authority Libertador around the time of stay in the territory of the State, and Sucre is charged
with the immediate command of the that departments that had been divided. Three months is not
complete, that is, 6 October, after having instructed the Liberator, which formed a political
constitution for the country, disbanded the Assembly, postponing the constitutional body reunion,
reunion which was to be held on May 25 of next year.

Despite the efforts made by supporters of independence, General Rodil, refugee in Callao, held
for over a year this place, finally surrendered on 23 January 1826, the day that Peru, as
a result of this event was totally emancipated from Spain and South America saw the completion
of the long and bloody struggle started and carried to a successful conclusion by the brave sons
of Venezuela, under the direction glorious the celebrated Bolivar.

But the Colombian people, like all people placed in analogous circumstances While yielding to a natural
impulse, had displayed all his strength to throw off the yoke of slavery, not even willing to
receive the new form of government, unenlightened to find ways to take advantage of the freedom
they had conquered, and not understanding the value of the duties to acquire new rights acquired,
soon became involved in civil strife not willingly given them. Resisting the Caracas the third
invitation made by Paez, who wanted to implement the decree on the organization militia, was
the chief forced to do some prisons, and on that occasion Caracas presented 17 days prior to the seizure
of Callao the image of a terrible revolution.

Pretext of having been trampled people's rights in the way of implementing government decrees,
the House of Representatives Paez fulminated against an accusation, March 30 in the Senate admitted,
suspended from his job and to realize quoting of their behavior. Disobeyed the order not only
transmitted by the executive, but that provision of the Municipal Assembly of Valencia, whose
city was Paez then April 30, retook the Senate that he had separated, resulting in the fact to believe
all people are entitled to ignore the legitimate government, and soon Republic was embroiled
in civil strife.

There were two sides who were raised: one federal and one central, with supporters first system
who marched to an end with more unity, more perfect harmony. The Federalists stirred Paez Caracas
to convene and chair an Assembly general in order to determine the political destiny of Venezuela
in the circumstances, and verified the reunion on November 7, after violent debates and an
unspeakable vote, Paez is authorized, pursuant to the powers that the Assembly had invested, pointing
issued a decree on December 10 for the reunion of polling stations and the installation of fixed
Valencia constituent body as day of January 1827.

Bolivar, news of the scandals promoted in Venezuela, departed from Lima on September 4 and forty
days later went into Santa Fe de Bogota, and was received with general samples affection. On November
25, headed to Venezuela and during his journey to Cucuta was massing troops to perform with
impressive attitude. On 16 the following month gave a proclamation from Maracaibo that, offering
high speed National Convention to legally people had the basic laws, he said: only the (people)
know her well and is owner their fate, not a powerful nor a party, not a single fraction from
the same village. The Liberator which returned some of the patricians lost, I arrive at Puerto-Cabello
Choir last day of the year, a time when Paez was in Valencia.

The events of Peru as the course of the year that were expiring so: the reunion Bolivia's Constituent
Congress, which accepted the draft Thin variants that Bolivar had sent, accompanied by the
recognition of that republic by the Council Peru's government, the appointment of General Sucre
as Life President of the State dignity that only admitted for two years, the declaration of
nullity of the powers conferred by schools in some provinces to their representatives, made
by the Governing Council Peruvian Congress in its first constitutional dissolution of this, the
school reunion election in the province of Lima, by decree of the competent authority, 16 August,
the acceptance that it made the Bolivian Constitution as fundamental Code Peru, and Bolivar's
appointment to president in perpetuity of the Republic, acts punishable by the Governing Council,
in view of unanimity had simply to have polling stations proceeded in all its agreements.

CHAPTER XII

Conciliatory provisions .-- Bolivar and Paez reconcile political failure .-- .-- Claims New-Granada
and Peru .-- Resignation of the Liberator to the fifth Congress meeting in Bogota .-- No his resignation
is accepted .-- factions are raised in Venezuela .-- The Constituent Congress Peru .-- political
unrest and disunity of Colombia. - Fail the Convention of Ocana Act .-- June 15, 1828. - Conspiracy
to armed .-- .-- Hazard Libertador Justice Act against the conspirators .-- New convening a Constituent
Congress .-- spade work of the discontented .-- Bolivar Manifesto .-- .-- Consequences of the
manifest is called the Libertador by some members of Congress of Colombia .-- .-- Punishment
of the Political Code Cessation of the dictatorship and the representation of Colombia .-- Journey
to Cartagena Bolivar .-- Decrees Paez .-- Congress in Valencia Installing New Constitution of Venezuela
.-- Death .-- del Libertador.

The year 1827 was opened by the Libertador in a manner and conciliatory policy. The first that
day from Puerto Cabello published an amnesty decree, confirming the authority Paez of civil and military
chief at the beginning of the revolution had been given by councils municipal. This dictated the following
other decree by which he recognized and sent acknowledge Bolivar as President of the Republic,
at the same time canceling all its previous resolutions, including that of reunion of a Congress. 4, at
two in the afternoon, both leaders had been and embraced at the foot of the hill Naguanagua, and
fit together in Valencia amid the acclamations enthusiastic people, and 10 of the same month across
Caracas melted in terms of greatest admiration to host on its campus to its illustrious son,
the liberator of America del Sud

The excessive love of this great man for the cause he had so nobly defended constant, strong desire
to consolidate it shook his great work, I made a mistake, excusable this point of view. But? Who
felt that felt like, who he saw that as as rebels surrounded circumstances when looked just the
first dawn of freedom of his country, who found that as the threat of being wrapped in the
shadows of a devastating storm at the moment of birth, had not tried to avoid at all coast of
the sad consequences that would result from disunion among the political elements which were
to be so strongly supported? This was no doubt what he did flatter the dissidents, which forced
him to put his unbridled ambition and desire to control, producing among his friends discontent
and envy. iAmigos! ... iQue pitiful abuse has been made This beautiful phrase, used without
reason rather than to be followers of those men who and Bolivar, come to have in their hands
the destiny of a nation!

In New Granada, as well as in Peru, many representations they directed the military failing
government reforms in the primitive law of the State, and, after so many great sacrifices,
after so much bloodshed and so precious for the sake of country, narrow interests, selfish view
domain, envy and resentment wrong tablets Tempers flare and ranks first in the most unjust war
the human race is between iniquity of the war itself, which the genius of evil awakens and
keeps the heart than you should join the fraternal bond of custom, language, country and family.
So, unfortunately, the triumph of independence was followed by the civil strife in America del Sud,
bitter and overwrought by measures whose spirit, whose purpose was none other than conciliation,
the welfare and strength. But man proposes and God disposes.

To the fifth congress, held in Bogota, Bolivar resigned his position as President, and then lengthy
and heated debate, by 50 votes to 24, went unheeded. This resignation was made from his hometown,
in view of the refusal, on 10 September step Bogota, vowing again before the Congress, meeting in extraordinary
session effect, and to uphold and defend there the Constitution of the Republic. In Venezuela
meanwhile had risen factions that, like Cisneros in Caracas, brought devastation everywhere.

The Constituent Congress of Peru had been met, prior to the events lately cited by 1 deg. May,
and declare that the Constitution sworn in on December 9th of the year was above zero and
with no effect, being punished by illegal and threatening the sovereignty of the people provisionally
restoring force and effect with suppression some chapters, meantime the Legislature was concerned
with forming a new one, that permitted and voted in 1823. Don Jose de Lamar, Grand Marshall, and
Don Manuel Salazar and were Barquijano elected, the first and the second as President and Vice-President
of the Republic. Such were the most notable or important in South America this year.

In 1828, following two major parties were stirred in the heart of Colombia. Those who aspired to
the best of faith in the world to make liberal changes in the law fundamental - which means,
in the eyes of his rivals, was the most on purpose to overthrow the Libertador, as well as
for those who wanted to divide the territory into three Colombian different states independent
of each other - were the first of these games. In the second Most were members of the generals,
commanders and Venezuelan officials, but all foreigners who remained in the service of Colombia
and the relatives and friends of Bolivar, that strove to uphold the integrity of the republic
created by the union of Venezuela, Quito and New Grenada. This was precisely the division attempted
by the faction contrary.

After having failed the National Convention held in Ocana on April 9 due to the findings of opinions
and political principles represented there, a gathering of people notables, formed in Bogota, signed
on June 13 an act in which they made solemn protest against any reform emanating from the Convention,
depositing the highest office of the Republic and his entire confidence in Gen. Bolivar, example
was later imitated and followed throughout latitude for the other races.