 He had only a surname sounded, to accept it with enthusiasm. To visit
in July, proudly presented it to his friends, it was about to call him "Dear Master." The tango
was monopolizing all conversation. Even in the Academy had dealt with it, to show eloquently that
the youth of ancient Athens amused with something like ... And Lacour had dreamed all his life
with an Athenian republic to their country.

The youth met at these meetings Desnoyers marriage Laurier. He was an engineer owned a car
engine factory near Paris, a man of thirty-five years, large, somewhat heavy, silent, who posed
around his person a slow look, as if to penetrate more deeply into men and objects. Madame Laurier
was ten years younger than her husband, and seemed detached from it by the force of a harsh
contrast. Was of a light, elegant, frivolous, and he loved the pleasures of life and satisfactions
it provides. Seemed to accept with smiling conformity the silent adoration and her husband's grave.
I could not do less for a creature of its merits. Furthermore, had provided marriage a dowry of three
hundred thousand francs, which served as the engineer capital to expand business. The senator had
been involved in arranging the marriage partnership. Laurier interested him as the son of a companion
of his youth.

The presence of Julio Margarita Laurier was a ray of sunshine in the dreary room Lacour. She danced
the dance of fashion, frequenting the "tea-tango" which was admired Desnoyers. Verse Suddenly
the man next to famous and interesting women vying ...! To believed that a bourgeois not equal to the
other fellow members of the senator, spoke of her sewing, all of the rue de la Paix, declaring
gravely that a woman can not get respect into the street in a dress less than eight hundred
francs, and the hat of a thousand, subject of wonder a few years
ago, was now a commonplace.

This knowledge was used by "small Laurier" - as her friends called her, in spite of good stature
- is sought by the teacher saw the dances, going to dance with him between glances of contempt
and envy. What a triumph for the wife of a simple engineer, they went everywhere in his mother's
car! ... July became the top attraction of novelty. As he had believed all languishing in his arms
following the complicated rhythm of dance. After he found differently. The strength of it then
of the first verbal intimacies exalted your desire. Never really had tried to a woman of her
class. The first time was their parishioners of the restaurants at night, who eventually get paid.
Now, the celebrity was bringing his arms to ladies of high position, but with a shameful past,
anxious for news and over-ripe. This bourgeois marching toward him and slipped the time of
abandonment with sudden revivals modesty represented something special.

Tango

salons experienced a great loss. Desnoyers was seen less frequently abandoning his glory to the professionals.
Whole weeks passed without the devoted could admire from five to seven their black tresses
and gleaming varnished little feet under the lights to the beat of graceful movements.

Margarita Laurier also fled these locations. The interviews of both developed according to what
she had read in romantic novels that are set in to Paris. I was looking for fear of being recognized
in July, trembling with emotion, choosing the more suits dark, covering his face with a thick
veil, "the veil of adultery", as they said their friends. Came together in less frequented
neighborhood squares, changing places as birds fearful that the slightest concern to take
flight to go and sit at a great distance. Sometimes they met in the Buttes Chaumont, others
preferred the gardens Left Bank, Luxembourg and even the remote Montsouris Park. She felt chills
of terror at the thought that her husband could surprise, while the industrious engineer was
at the plant, at an enormous distance from reality. His appearance startled, their excessive precautions
to slip unnoticed, eventually drawing the attention of passersby.

July impatient with the inconvenience of this love wandering without achieving some furtive
kisses. But it was silent at last, dominated by the words of Margaret supplicants. No I wanted
to be his as one of many: I needed convincing that this love would last forever. It was his first
offense and wanted to be the final. Ay! His reputation intact until then! ... The fear of what people
might say! ... The two fell into adolescence, is loved with passion and childlike trusting
fifteen years, they had never known. July had jumped from childhood to the pleasures of debauchery,
ranging from a stroke all the initiation of life. She had wanted the marriage to do as the others, to
acquire respect and freedom of a married woman to her husband feeling only a vague appreciation.
"We end where others begin," said Desnoyers.

His passion took all forms of intense love, faithful, and vulgar. Melted with sentimentality
of romance to shake hands and change a kiss on a garden bench to dusk. He kept a lock of hair
from Margarita, but doubting its authenticity, with a vague suspicion that it might be of
added taxes for fashion. She left her head on his shoulder, all evenly, as if imploring his domination;
but always outdoors. Just trying to coach, Madame repelled him strongly. A contradictory duality
seemed to inspire his actions. Every morning woke up ready the final maturity. But then, to
be near him, reappeared the petty bourgeois, jealous its reputation, faithful to the teachings
of his mother.

One day he agreed to visit the studio, with the interest that inspired the haunts the beloved.
"Swear that you will respect me." He had the simple oath, and swore by all what Margaret wanted
... And from this day were no longer in the gardens and wandered pursued by the winter wind. They
stayed in the study, and Argensola had to modify their existence, looking for a painter friend stove
to continue his reading.

This situation lasted two months. Never knew what secret force suddenly collapsed its peaceful
happiness. Perhaps it was a friend of hers, who, realizing the facts, made know her husband through
an anonymous, perhaps unconsciously betrayed the same wife, with inexplicable joy, their returns
to the house later, when food was already on the table, and the sudden aversion to the engineer showing
the hours of marital intimacy, to remain faithful to the memory of another. The shared between
the legal and human mate love was a torment that her enthusiasm could
not bear simple and intense.

When he trotted a night on the rue de la Pompe looking at his watch and trembling with impatience
not finding a car or a simple cab, cut him off a man ... Laurier Esteban! Still remember shaking
with fear at this tragic hour. For a moment thought he was going to kill her. Men serious, shy and
submissive are terrible in their outbursts of anger. The husband I knew everything. With the same
patience he used in solving industrial problems, had studied day
after day, without being able to guess this surveillance on his face
impassive.

Then had followed, to acquire the full evidence of his misfortune.

Margarita had not ever imagined as vulgar and loud in their passions. Expected accept the facts
dispassionately, with a slight tinge of irony, philosophical, as do truly distinguished men, as
they did the husbands of many of her friends. But the poor engineer, his work beyond just looked
at his wife, loving her as a woman and admired as a delicate and superior overview of all the
grace and elegance, no could resign, and yelled and threatened without any modesty, making the
scandal spread around the circle of friends. The senator felt great discomfort to remember
it was in his respectable house where they knew the culprits. But his anger the directed against
the husband. What lack of good living! ... Women are women, and all be fixed. But after the follies
of this madman was not possible a elegant, and had to file for divorce.

The

old Desnoyers was angry to learn of the latest exploit of her son. Laurier inspired a great affection.
Instinctive solidarity between working people, patients and silent, they had sought. In the
gatherings at the senator asked the engineer news the conduct of its business, interest in the
development of that factory, which spoke with tenderness of a father. The millionaire, who
enjoyed a reputation for miserly, had come to provide selfless support, if needed someday expand
their laborious action. And to this good man was coming to steal your child's happiness, a dancer
frivolous and useless! ...

Laurier, at first spoke of fighting. His anger was the work horse breaking the straps of the
working machine, ruffles his hair with the neighing of madness and bites. The father was angry
at his determination ... A scandal!

Julio had dedicated the best part of their existence to handle weapons.

- I kill you - said the senator -. I'm sure you will kill him. Is the logic of life: useless always
kills it serves for something.

But there was one death.

The father of the Republic knew how to handle some and to others with the same showing skill
in the corridors of the Senate to rise to a ministerial crisis.

Is silenced scandal. Margaret went to live with his mother, and began
the first steps for divorce.

Some evenings, when the clock of the study gave the seven, she had
said sadly, between stretches of fatigue loving:

- March ... Leave
when it is my true home ... Oh, why are not married!

...

And he, that was blooming in her soul a whole garden of bourgeois
virtues hitherto ignored, repeated convinced:

- It's true, why are
not married!

His wishes were carried out. The husband provided them over with his unexpected intervention.
And the young Desnoyers went to America to raise money and marry Margarita.

IV

Berlin's cousin

The study of Julio Desnoyers occupied the top floor above the street. The elevator and stairs
Main ended his door. Behind them, two small departments received the light from an interior courtyard,
with the only media service stairs, that led up to the attic.

Argensola, by staying in the studio during the trip of a partner, had sought the friendship floor
of these neighbors. The largest of the rooms was unoccupied for the
day.

Their owners just returned after eating at the restaurant. It was a marriage of employees, only stayed
at home for the holidays. The man, vigorous and martial aspect, inspector serving in a department
store. He had been a soldier in Africa, showed a medal and held the rank of lieutenant in the
army reserve. She was a blonde bulky and somewhat anemic, clear-eyed and sentimental gesture.
In the spent long holidays hours at the piano, evoking memories of music, always the same. Sometimes
saw Argensola working inside a window in the kitchen, aided by his companion, laughing both of their
clumsiness and inexperience to improvise Sunday lunch.

The caretaker had to this German woman, but she did record its status in Switzerland. Played employment
as a cashier in a store that was not his teammate. In the morning went out together, to separate
in the Place de l'Etoile, each following a different direction. At seven PM greeted with a
kiss on the street, as lovers who meet by first time, and after your meal returned to the nest,
rue de la Pompe. Argensola found himself rejected in its attempts to friendship, selfishness of
the couple. He answered with a courtesy glacial: living only for them.

The other department, composed of two parts, was occupied by a single man. It was a Russian or Polish,
almost always returning with packages of books and spent long hours writing beside a window
in the courtyard. The Spanish he had from the outset by a mysterious man maybe hiding enormous
merits: a true character in a novel. He impressed the Tchernoff exotic appearance, his beard
revolt, their hair greasy, his glasses on a large nose appeared deformed
by a punch.

As an invisible halo surrounded him some composed of cheap wine smell and fumes of clothes
transudates; Argensola perceived it through Service door: "The Tchernoff friend comes back."
And there went out to the staircase to talk to your neighbor. This argued for a long time access
to your home.

The Spanish arrived to believe that was dedicated to the mysterious alchemy and other operations.
When he was finally able to enter, saw books, many books, books everywhere, scattered on the
floor, aligned on tables, stacked in corners, invading rickety chairs,
old tables and a bed it was just remade from time to time, when the
owner, alarmed by the growing invasion dust and cobwebs, demanded
the help of a friend of the concierge.

Argensola recognized at last with some disappointment that there was nothing mysterious in the
life of this man. What he wrote next to the window were translations: some custom made, other
volunteers to socialist newspapers. The only thing amazing about him was the amount language he knew.

-
All known - said to Desnoyers to describe this neighbor -. I just heard a new one, for few days to
master. Holds the key, the secret of living and dead languages. Talk Castilian as us and has not
ever been to a Spanish speaking country.

The sense of mystery Argensola he experienced while reading the titles of many of stacked volumes.
They were mostly old books, many of them in languages he could not decipher, collected at low
prices on secondhand bookshop and boxes of bouquinistes installed on the parapets of the Seine.
Only one man, who had "the key languages, "could acquire such volumes. An atmosphere of mysticism,
initiation superhuman, secrets intact through the centuries, it appeared these piles dusty volumes,
some with leaves gnawed. And confused with antiquated books others appeared brand new and red
cover, socialist propaganda booklets, brochures all European languages, and newspapers, many
newspapers, with titles that evoke the revolution.

Tchernoff not seem to like visits and talks. He smiled enigmatically through Ogre beard, saving words
to finish the interview soon.

But had Argensola the means to overcome this intractable character. It was enough to wink expressive
invitation. Shall we? "And the two were installed on a couch in the kitchen Desnoyers or study,
compared to a bottle from the avenue Victor Hugo. Precious wines of Don Marcelo softened Russian,
making it more communicative. But even using this aid, the Spanish knew little of its existence.
Sometimes referred to Jaures and other speakers to socialists. Their livelihood was safer to translate
the party newspaper. On several occasions escaped the name of Siberia, stating that he had been
there a long time. But he would not speak of the distant country
visited against his will.

He smiled modestly, not given to older revelations.

The day after the arrival of Julio Desnoyers was Argensola in the
morning, talking with Tchernoff on the landing of the stairs, rang
the doorbell the study that led to the main staircase.

A great disappointment.

The Russian, who knew advanced to politicians, he was realizing the efforts to Jaures keep the peace.
Still there were many who felt hopeless.

The, Tchernoff, commented these illusions sphinx's smile flattened.

He had his reasons to doubt ... But the bell rang another time, and the Spanish ran to open,
leaving his friend.

A man wanted to see Julio. He spoke French well, but his accent was a revelation for Argensola. Upon
entering the bedroom looking for his companion, who had just risen,
said with certainty:

- It's your cousin from Berlin who comes to
say goodbye.

There may be another.

The three men gathered in the study. Desnoyers presented to his comrade, for the newborn come
no mistake about his status.

- I've heard of him. The Lord is Argensola, a young man of great merit.

And Dr. Julius von Hartrott said this to the sufficiency of a man who knows everything and want
to please a lower, giving the charity of your attention.

The two
cousins ??watched with curiosity not devoid of suspicion. A relationship
linking them intimate, but knew little, feeling each other a complete
divergence of views and tastes.

In considering Argensola to this
wise, I found some aspect of plainclothes officer. You could see in
him a desire to imitate the men of the sword when from time to time
civil adopt the habit, the aspiration of every German bourgeois to
be mistaken for those of upper class. His pants were tight, as if
they were destined to slip into in riding boots. The jacket, with
two rows of buttons, had gathered waist, wide and long climbs the
apron and very lapels, loosely imitating a military frock coat. The
reddish mustache on a strong jaw and hair cut this simulation to completed
rape warrior. But his eyes, eyes of study with the pupil mate, great
astonishment and myopic, they slept behind some thick glasses, giving
it a peaceful man