 And no longer knew what it could see, or worse, afraid to know too. Florence had
been death! No trial had been afraid of God! I had not thought in the salvation of his soul he
did not believe in their future life, because everything had been killed ends in death.

"So there is nothing, nothing ?...»

The question of the dead remained unanswered, unheard.

By sole virtue of sight of his beloved candle plant had looked, I
had heard, including the soul of the world: mysterious voices had
told him memorabilia, all living, throbbing and glistened.

But, then again silence and darkness to gather around him. The with previously evident or hidden
meaning remained mute.

So deep and sincere was his conversion, which is sometimes felt under electric of the ancient
faith, but then again the darkness around him thicker. And in the alternative of course, was
silent again with terror and despair, his alter ego, the man Time I thought I had buried past and
into himself. As before having met the Countess, his thinking was dark, confused, lost. The miraculous
flowering had sprouted from every crevice of your soul withered and
crumbled.

At other times, his heart, be closed to all pleasure in their own greed, but once they had received
the seed he was embittered by rancor infinity.

The young man decided to go. He saw other lands, other men, hoping to leave his pain over the ways
of the world, but nothing was enough to calm him down. In Nice, in front of the tomb his sister,
wept hot tears that far from extinguishing the fire revived. Lake had become: a mortal dread
came over him at the thought of seeing again the only places where
I could tell he really had lived.

Feared drowned with grief to see Ouchy beaches, hills of Lausanne, the town Cyclamens, the forest
of Comte, the humble chapels, the panorama of Lake Geneva veiled by clouds and smiling, sunlight.

Finally,
one day went. Found these places as they had left. The passivity of the Nature eternal hurt
him as an insult: if at least something had been destroyed in the
land, if only I had seen around him traces of devastation similar
to which he felt inside.

Secular forests, perennial waters, ravenous beasts graves, remained immutable. The young man
was acknowledging each point along the way, every detail of perspective. His desperate certainty
that no power could have never perform the miracle to give back what
was lost and turned around but his eyes, and sharpened ear, as if
an apparition, a voice suddenly could evoke the lost asset.

And one afternoon from a window in his room watching Dôle summits
behind down which the sun rays, shuddered when he heard a voice behind
him spoke.

Was it a hallucination? Is not daydreaming?

Alejo Zakunine Prince was in his presence.

- Roberto candle plant - said the voice - can not you recognize me?

A kind of shiver shook the nerves, believed to be seeing a ghost.

What he wanted with this man? Why would fetch?

- Do you know who I am? But I was not expecting you! I come to you because I have something say.

He
spoke with his head bowed, humbly.

Seen from above, from the spacious front end to the tip of the beard,
the face was all furrowed with deep wrinkles.

Hair, very rare, were white with temples.

His whole person was printed signs a rapid decline.

Candle plant looked at him as if fascinated, unable to answer a single word, to see clearly
in the tumult of feelings that raged in his soul.

- I have to tell you one thing. Ferpierre want to give it to the judge, but I thought it best was
first to address you ...

And after a pause he added:

- Listen, candle plant, Florence d'Arda not killed. I murdered.

The young man ran a hand across his forehead, eyes. Again, more so than in the first instant
was unsure of being awake.

- Do not believe me, you? Yet, you were so close to the truth!

I know you the asserted against everything and everyone, and very
nearly got to prove it.

True many circumstances, especially, were, against you. Sister's letter Ana, seemed to have
the last word on the fate of the Countess. What cheated justice was that when I killed was indeed
determined to be death. I will say you how I killed her ...

Candle plant trembled as if shaken by fever.

- I will refer you to my shame: this is the beginning of the punishment. I never knew what
worth.

Never, while he lived, I realized the beauty of her soul. No beauty was understandable to
me: the world and life seemed devoid of that quality. I had within me a Hell, nothing could
extinguish the flame which devoured me.

Everything I touched was reduced to ashes. She loved me for compassion: the instinct, need, lust
of slaughter gave me. And although I did not understand, for a moment I was blinded by her
light. I could not bear the light, and looked away. And I teased her and offended.

He paused a moment, staring before him as if he were blind, and then continued:

- Listen you. When he has said everything, you will understand my words deserve faith. In the
first time I said I was next. Nature and life had to go provided me with a feeling passing
another with fulmineo violence. Those who know what I have done in the world may sometimes
think that perhaps the voice guided me the right. But I do not was
aware.

If within me judging my actions and those of others, all came down a mechanism, a game of blind
drives and fatal. I could not, therefore, believe the change had come over me by virtue. I only
made fun of it, too I laughed at myself ...

Should tell you which was, day by day, hour by hour, my awful work,
how to constant, tireless preaching of divine love and goodness opposed
contempt, insult, betrayal.

But you know all this. And then, then ...

Everything you suggested to his hatred towards me was not enough: what I did is incredible. Sometimes
when words poison and corrosive desecrated, vilified, destroyed their faith, when he showed
that nothing exists outside of evil, that the only remedies are iron,
fire, death, when urged to leave me, to betray, to lose, was operated
inside me a backlash, and tears came to my eyes.

But I hid my tears.

When you met her, I realized that she began to love him, my heart was dilated to joy. View your
feelings wavered decanted eternity; provide that would fall as all
fall, to say it: - You see?

Where are your moral laws? You also do as others, what you please! - was something that filled
me with joy ...

Meanwhile, I gave myself completely, had prompted the action to the fainthearted to my country
and others. The last attempt seemed destined to prosper and savored
success.

Everything was carefully prepared, had prompted the action to the fainthearted the wavering,
to the fearful, and delivered almost all that remained of my property without thinking encounter
difficulties in later.

My duty was to get me also in action, and I had to leave for that purpose, but I was obliged to stay
to prepare a new action in the case of a setback.

And one day I learned that my brothers were dead, hanging from the gallows that fell on roads
leading to the exile, under the rule of the thugs, and I knew that women, the children went to
the gallows, that many innocents suffered in my place that fear reigned over all the people
of my race ...

That day I found myself in the presence of such ruin, with the fear of having the wrong road,
alone and almost poor. Then suddenly arose in my heart something like a necessity, as a forward,
like a burning thirst for relief, then I almost reach out and find support me, almost prostrated
me to hear a word of comfort ...

The consolation being that could exist, would have had nothing else to do to go after her, to
open my heart. Might have been still long. Or maybe not: it was too late ...

Too late! Do you know what these words mean? ... Me a boost of pride stopped. Would I have to beg?
And yet, I realized that nothing in this crisis My life could have been heal as the love of
a creature like this.

I went back to his side, but nothing I said.

My attitude was to demonstrate, however, what happened within me. Too late! ... We suffer and
accept suffering, we can despair and live in despair, but at the thought that happiness would
have been for us; that fortune has come to our side to get it that
we only had to extend hand, to say a word, and we've taken her hand,
and uttered - too late! - the word at the idea the heart stopped beating
...

And it was not mine: it was you, and when I acquired this certainty,
I started to laugh again and mock.

I ran it, but I had to return to his side, even when I showed repentant and converted, I weighed
the subject, far from it could not live. Thus passed the recent months, alternating with brief
escapes my returns. A Zurich going to talk about it another unhappy, Alejandra. Alejandra Natzichet
is dead ...

Candle plant was stunned. No, not dreaming, but the reality was all the dream characters. The man
who spoke in his presence seemed to him as proud revolutionary pale images of a nightmare look like
living people. Dead, the Natzichet? How, why he died? Until the time and light are unnatural:
the yellow twilight oddly lit room, the things the Prince's emaciated
face.

- I trusted my torment Alejandra, Alejandra and loved me, without
me even noticing!

The Life has so dear: our souls, that these four creatures have been found to suffer unspeakable
pain, and none knew what the other suffering, or always know too late! Alejandra I professed
brotherly affection: the solitude in which he was sunk, her integrity, which made her able
to withstand and overcome the difficulties of life, I inclined to
protect her, to hold her like a sister, as a daughter, but she wanted
me with a more ardent affection!

And even if I had realized his love, what could have made it happy?

Only she could trust with my passion for the other! ...

Alejandra tried to cure me call of duty to serve the cause: I wanted
to hear, but vain.

The idea of ??winning back the love that before disdained, to seize and running my whole life.
After being overlooked and attributed to the love an inestimable
price.

It was fair! ...

None of this is said to Florence: the time had come to see, I spent days shaking discover and
mine was no longer in the soul, had already handed over to you. To not believe in this horrible
thing, I say, "Think so elevated, it never will!"

And an inner voice answered: "Now do you believe in that moral high ground that before you laugh?"
Yes, before I laughed. And still did not believe it!

My confidence that I would betray not based on both the esteem in
which he had his character, as unable to believe it was all over between
us irretrievably.

I saw that my back and my repentance produced a mortal anxiety, and I flattered the hope to recover
...

Being at his side and unable to hold his hand! Remember the past and the despair of living another
After one of his hours! ... As much as happened to me, and nothing could say! I pride and
still contained another reason less petty. I was already in poverty, she was rich: speaking
of my love, could not be a lie suggested by the calculation?

...

One day I spoke. The said

- I've lost, I wanted to lose, I feel that my guilt is irreparable.

But if you knew what happens inside me! I ask you please not leave me this time around collapses
around me.

Later you will do what you want ...

That same day, the day the storm
had spoken to you too.

Narrowed between our two passions, he resolved to die.

The answer he gave me was:

- Never leave him because I'm his wife, but you remember that our
love is dead.

His tone was cold, her eyes meet mine avoided.

When I realized that you also had spoken, I thought it was not sincere,
I thought I was hiding something.

But the fear was that had decided to flee, did not believe that had
the decision to die: not even know!

...

I spent quite a night. She also spent awake.

A hundred times a thousand, I wanted to go look, but his door was
closed me.

Alejandra morning came for me, calling me with intuition of a disaster.

As I promised, but first I wanted a last look at Florence.

Hearing me into his room hurriedly hid something. I saw it was the gun.

At this point he was squeezed between our two passions, he wanted
to die to free ... I realized that I had no right to speak, introducing
me to his room, which was given leave to your destination, freedom,
death, but could not.

The idea that among two people who had been on each other did not
exist, nothing, nothing that I was worse than a stranger to her, she
found no place in my mind.

And the secret voice told me: "Before, you thought that love was
fleeting encounter of two whims, before you laugh ties indissoluble
... "

I could not admit that he belonged to another, even if it were only
in thought.

I, who had betrayed her, could not accept being betrayed my time. My pride was unlimited,
would not tolerate someone were worth more than me.

And understand that you would have known make her happy, pride, love,
jealousy, all passions, all the instincts of my race, my nature revolted
threatening.

- You promised me yesterday - I said with bitter emphasis
- let me not because you're my wife, and now want to kill you ...

She
did not deny it.

- Let me die - was his answer, - it will be better
for everyone.

In his voice there was something I did not know: his love for you,
the bitterness of having to abandon happiness that was promised to
you.

- "So you can no longer tolerate my sight?

So much you cringe?

The said these words, and many, many others.

She replied only:.

- Whose fault is it?

- Listen you: this was the first complaint that I was going after so many months of pain.

- Well - the "I replied, - I will disappear, will depart today, in
a moment and never see me again.

You want to die, though?

- Yes - I said.

I was afraid to understand, but, however, asked

- Why?

His words, nothing I said I did not already know.

- Because if I live I will be yours.

His, for you, otherwise ...!

A flare up to my eyes and forehead.

- That's not possible, will not happen! ...

She shook her head.

- Do not say no! - Insisted .-- Do not say no! ... I know you do not love me you hate me, that
defy me but do not tell me you love another, because ... because
...

- I love him - he said.

Then I begged, I cried. She repeated:

- I love him. Do not lie. I do not pretend to know.

I love him, and because this love is forbidden me, I die.

Then I fell down laughing, derided:

- The person who wants to die does not say! ... Well performing your role! ...

I still see his eyes in amazement.

- Are not you think?

Do not believe me when I fired the only person I will cry honestly? ...

- How he cried ?...--.

A Sister Ana was who had written, but no outrage expressed my suspicion, tone of irony to express
it.

Merely corrected:

- Sister Anne

I always said I facetiously:

- What about the health
of the soul?

At these words he hid his face in his hands.

I know I took them suddenly, and tried draw it into my chest.

-
No, not die, you live for me, me ...

She jumped up and leaned back:

-
Do not you touch me!

I felt that my great love crashed into implacable hatred.

- Well!

Is caused horror? - The said .-- And you love him!

And though it actually would you kill, would not, because he fears
the trial of his God.

I want you free from that penalty! ...

And before I even had the time to suspect my intention, I seized the
weapon, had hidden in several books.

- Now do not kill you, will
not face the wrath of God, and you may also run for new strokes.

Since then no longer recognized.

He looked around him, as if she were prey to a terrified, as if he thought lost, like become engaged
in a whirlwind voracious and absorbing.

Then she looked: her eyes were lit by a glow of joy, a grin.

- Ah! Do you? ... How you think I want to die? ... How have you believe ...? Take that gun!
It is death that awaits me, but life and pleasure ... Go you: leave
me alone: ??he is coming now!

...

I also then looked around me, puzzled: my hand shaking armed. And as in my eyes had a question,
she realized:

- It's going to come: I am yours!

...

I climbed the red flare again, more furious, eyes and forehead.

-
Shut up you! - The screamed.

- No, I will shut up!

I can not! ... I love him, I'm yours!

- Shut up! - The computer again.

- No, I will shut up! I love you, and you will hate and despise you! You have made me so ill,
I have the right to retaliate at last! No one can condemn! ...

- Shut !...-- privacy for the third time.

- No, I can not shut up! Although I condemn, what do I care? My whole being needs to breathe
happiness that finally feels saturated. I want to scream at all, all I want to do I see the happiness
that fills the soul ...

- You're crazy! - I cried.

- Yes, I'm yours!

No, that was not possible. If it were true, if I'd believe it because I too had gone mad.

- Not true! Do not believe it! - I cried.

She replied, astonished, laughing:

- Do not you think? How do you believe it? ... Listen: if it were not true, what I would have liked
die? You've found me with the gun in his hand, I have already written
a letter last farewell; I would write my will, then I would have written
it.

Do you think I would have liked, might have to leave that way?

Without the remorse of guilt, would have thought in death? Had it not been my downfall, would
have continued living as now! Wanted to die, because he believed
they have sinned, but now no, no, no! ...

- You have done that?

-
I have done and do it again. I love him, is mine forever. Want to
know how long? Want to know how?

- Shut up! Do not tease me!

- No,
do not provoke. What I care about you? Who are you? What are you doing
here? Who has given you the right to come here? Go, leave me! He waits
for me, I repeat ... Do you want me so scared? ... Ah, ah ...

My
eyes had to be frightening, and she laughed and insisted!

- Do not
be afraid! What can you do to me?

I burst out:

- Kill!

She opened
her arms, looked up, introduced the chest.

- Kill me! I'll keep him
until the grave!

- Shut up or I'll kill you!

- To the grave! There
is not one of my thoughts, not a beat of my heart, not a movement
of my soul, not a fiber of my flesh, that is not yours ...

I raised
the gun. The eyes flashed, his voice sang:

- In life, even beyond
death, it just ...

The fire broke ...

Roberto candle plant had trembled
in the tale, of pain, horror, compassion, remorse impotent, hate bad
content. Upon hearing the shots came forward, and lifting fist shouted

-
Murderer!

The Prince held his gaze and said:

- Paste you.

So the
two stood face to face for a while neither could have then appreciate.
Candle plant again dropping the arm, and a hollow voice, tremulous,
he repeated:

- Murderer!

- I have come that you meet justice. What
you do will be fair. But listen to me still an instant. When I saw
her fall, when I saw the blood flow from his horrible wound, a roar
escaped from my chest. She was still alive. He lived to tell me his
last words. You hear them:

- He lied to die ... I could not ... Thanks
... Sorry ...

Those were his last words. I wanted to die with her.
He was holding the gun, and I went against myself, but someone pushed
me in that moment his arm as with pliers. Alejandra was before me:

-
You must live! You live! You save! Let me do! ...

I do not understand.

Alejandra
placed the gun near the body, was studying how to put it, he drew
a capsule.

- Will have been killed, as he said: we all believe ...

And
voices approaching, rumors of steps:

- Listen. If suspect, let me
answer me in any case confirms my answers. Think on duty! Think about
the cause! Think of me, I love you, I love you for me, I know make
you happy! ...

I do not understand. I ran to call for help, hoping
to still be alive. Why Why hide the truth? Say it was my first impulse.
If not I immediately said it was because still did not understand:
I could not hear the questions I did, answered them mechanically as
dreams. But then, when you threw me face the charge, I rebelled. Still
was that my condition. My thoughts, my feelings, blindly obeying the
kind of sudden reactions. Charged with you, I defended myself. I said
all he could say against me, I recognized it was me who pushed her
to death, but denied the extreme act. Several times during the interrogation
was to confess, but hearing the name you, to see the harshness of
the judge, I contained. The need to tear, dying, to atone for my fault
that I overlooked at first, I went to the anxiety of the discussion:
imprisoned like a wild beast, and I had no other commitment than to
break my chains, running open field again be master of myself. And
without understanding, confirmed the statements Alejandra, and when
she was accused, when he finally realized when I saw that was lost
for my sake, then, naturally, I accepted the sacrifice ... Both were
released, and then, at the time that I was free, which lie succeeded,
I wanted to say truth. Still I was silent for some time, because within
me, in the long night of my mind, the dawn of a new day was already
included. Alejandra believed to watch over me because we were together,
because I spoke. I could not see, not heard: a soul, silent and invisible,
ruled and my life ...

He paused, looking up at the sky. The sky was
calm, yellow clouds were gone, colors pink and green, pure, illuminating
the west.

The Prince continued:

- The bitterness, hatred, envy,
concuspicencia all the misery that had formed my life, I finally came
under the dim light