 Yet progress is undeniable, if not us,
in what is outside us, although our power and accumulated inheritance. Napoleon, for instance,
is not better than Alexander the Great, but Napoleon has guns and other means of warfare that Alexander
did not have. Neither Kant nor Hegel worth as much as Aristotle but Aristotle did not possess the
scientific data twentieth of Kant and Hegel.

Fed is understood and in what sense and to what extent progress is undeniable. No progress in science
but in art there is no progress. If Pericles would be resurrected today turulato to hear the phonograph,
talking on the phone and see the electric poles, balloons, Railways and photography. Even a box
to fit a small dog matches to topple him the ground, dazed with awe and surprise, but it sure
would not find among all Paris hetairae a more discreet, distinguished and beautiful that Aspasia,
and you seem Magdalena a sad parody of the Parthenon and the Eiffel
Tower an ugly and monstrous freak.

I confess that, if brought together the finest lyrical poetry of great poets Pericles today
and could read and understand, was to find them superior to those of Pindar. Neat would explain why.
Suffice it that I recognize that in the lyric outbid the old. Not so in the rest. The same wealth
of knowledge and the itch to analyze things and look all around each object, remove grace,
lightness and sharpness style and make it heavy, confusing and vague. Pericles accustomed to the
speed of the narration Herodotus could not stand or the great historian Macaulay, who, if he
had continued history of England until now, have had to give the stamp hundreds volumes of the
Tauchnitz edition, and would have been necessary, even for an intelligent reader and regular,
the use of some years of life just to read and learn half Macaulay of what he says. Used also
to the conciseness Pericles in the telling of so many beautiful fables, legends and traditions of
their homeland, I'd bet a thousand to one that would not suffer with patience, without yawning
and without sleep, the ponderous and endless descriptions a novel
by Zola.

It is true that anyone will tell me to answer that Zola does not
write for me to read Pericles, but to read to the men of the day