 Wide left the stables, vomiting into town
for milk cows, herds of goats, the nag of dung. The curtains of dwarf trees that overshadowed
the roads vibrating bells and bells, and cutting off this merry jingle sounded the energetic "arre,
here!" encouraging the beasts reluctant.

At the gates of the barracks saludábanse who went to the city and those who stayed to work the
fields.

- Bon dia we done Deu! [1].

[1] Good morning to give us God!

- Bon dia!

And after this greeting, changed with all the gravity proper to a people who have been in his
veins Moorish blood and can only speak of God with a solemn gesture, it was the silence if you
happened was a stranger, and if intimate, is charged with the purchase of small Valencia objects
for women or for the house.

It was daylight completely.

The space had been cleared of faint mist, night of the wet fields
and murmuring irrigation ditches.

I was going to sunrise. In the red furrows larks flew with the joy of living another day, and
the naughty sparrows perched on the windows yet closed, pecking wood, telling the inside with
its cry of drifters used to cadge 'Up, lazy! To work the land, to eat us !...»

In Toni's shack, known all around for Pimento, had just entered his wife Pepeta, an animated
creature, whitish and flabby flesh in his youth, undermined by anemia,
which was nevertheless the hardest working female entire garden.

At dawn he was back in the market. Got up at three, loaded with baskets Toni picked vegetables
to close the night before between oaths and vows against a crafty life in which both have to
work, and to grope for the path, guided in Dark as the good child of the garden, going to Valencia,
while her husband, that good boy who cost so dear, still snoring
in the hot students, well wrapped in Carrion rugs marriage.

Those who bought vegetables in bulk to resell it to this young woman knew before dawn and was in
the market of Valencia, sitting in their baskets, shivering under the thin and threadbare shawl. I
looked with envy, not realized, those who could drink a cup of coffee to combat the cool morning.
And with the patience of a beast submissive waiting to give him money
for vegetables that had been set in their complex calculations, to
keep Toni and bring the house forward.

After the sale ran back toward his cabin, hoping to save as soon as one hour way.

Came back in office to develop a second industry: after vegetables milk. And pulling the halter
of a cow blonde, who had hit the tail as loving Satellite a playful calf, returned to the city with
his wand under his arm and tin as to serve customers.

La Roche, and dubbed the cow for his blond hair, bellowed sweet, shuddering
under a burlap trappings, hurt by the cool of the morning, turning
his eyes wet towards the hut, he stayed behind with his stable black,
relaxed, in which straw smelly thought with pleasure of the dream
unfulfilled.

Pepeta the herding with his staff. It was getting late, and they would complain about the customers.
And the cow and the calf trotted through downtown Alboraya Road, deep, muddy, deeply furrowed
lanes.

On the slopes side, one arm in the basket and the other swinging, spent endless cigar beads and
spinners of silk, all the virginity of the garden, going to work in factories, leaving with
the flutter of her skirts a trail of chastity rude and rough.

Fields scattered by the blessing of God.

After the trees and houses that blocked the horizon as the sun peeped huge red wafer, horizontal
casting golden needles forced to cover their eyes. The mountains in the background and towers
of the city were taking a rosy tint, the puffs that rowed by coloreábanse sky as skeins of silk
crimson ditches and puddles in the road seemed fishiest fire.

It sounded inside the barracks dragging the broom the clash of crockery, all the noises of
the morning cleaning. Agachábanse women in slopes, taking the basket next to the laundry. Jumped
on the brown paths rabbits, with his devious smile, teaching, to flee, heading for the pink
buttocks the button-shaped tail, and on piles of manure blonde, cock, surrounded by his cloqueantes
odalisques, uttered a cry of jealous sultan, with the ardent pupil chins red with anger.

Pepeta, insensible to this awakening he witnessed daily, continued their march, more more quickly,
on an empty stomach, aching legs and undergarments impregnated a sweat of his own weakness and
poor white blood, that perhaps escaped during for weeks, contravening the rules of nature.

The avalanche of hard working people that was heading to Valencia filled bridges. Pepeta passed
among workers in the suburbs who came to the lunch bag neck slope,
stopped at the octroi of Consumption to take his ticket - a few coins
that all ached on the soul - and went through the deserted streets,
cheering the cowbell de la Rocha with badajeo pastoral melody, sounding
to the sleepy bourgeois with green meadows and idyllic pastoral scenes.

He

had the poor woman parishioners scattered throughout the city.

His departure was a convoluted journey through the streets, stopping before the gates closed,
a knock here, three and ringing away, and always, then the shrill, sharp cry, which seemed impossible
could arise from its poor and satin chest: "The lleeet!" Jug in hand down the maid disheveled
in sandals, with swollen eyes, to receive the milk, or the old caretaker, still with blanket
that had to go to the Mass of the morning.

At eight o'clock, after serving all customers, Pepeta was seen near the neighborhood of Fishermen.

As
also found in the office, poor orchard went bravely into the dirty alleys, which seemed dead
at that hour. Always, on entering, felt a certain uneasiness, instinctive repugnance weak stomach.
But its spirit of honest and sick woman known to overcome this impression,
and continued on with some pride vanity, a pride of female caste,
comforting to see that she, weak and overwhelmed by poverty, was still
superior to others.

In the closed and silent houses came the breath of cheap debauchery, loud and undisguised:
the smell of spicy meat and rotten, wine and sweat.

Through the cracks of doors seemed to escape the brutal breath and sleep after a night landslide
caresses of fierce and drunken amorous whims.

Pepeta heard his name called.

At the door of a ladder beckoning a good girl, bare-chested, ugly,
no other charm than a youth about to disappear, the eyes wet, the
twisted ribbon, and cheeks blush stains from the night before: a cartoon,
a clown for vice.

The styling, pressing his lips with a gesture of pride and disdain
for the distances it was quite clear, he began to milk the udder de
la Rocha inside the jug out to him the girl.

It did not take his view of the peasant.

- Pepeta! - His voice wavering, as if it were not certain that was herself.

Pepeta raised his head, fixed his eyes for the first time in the slut, and seemed to hesitate.

- Rosario! ... Is that you?

Yes, she was, I said with sad nods. And Pepeta immediately expressed amazement. She there! ...
The daughter of parents so honored!

Shame on you, Lord ...

The harlot, by custom of the trade, tried to accommodate with cynical smile, the gesture skeptical
who knows the secret of life and believes in nothing, the exclamations of shocked styling. But
the gaze of the eyes eventually clear Pepeta embarrassing, and lowered head as if to mourn.

No, it was not bad. He had worked in factories, had served as home to a family, but finally
gave her sisters example, tired of being hungry, and there he was,
receiving sometimes affection and other blows, until they burst forever.

It was natural: where no father and mother, the family ends well. Of all his fault the master
of the earth, it Don Salvador, sure to burn in hell. Ah, you thief! ... And how he had lost
whole family!

Forgot Pepeta cold and reserved attitude to join the outrage of the girl. Truth all true, this
guy was to blame greedy. I knew the whole orchard. Good God, and how you lose a house! So
good that Barret was the poor guy! If you raise his head and saw
their daughters!

... They knew in the garden that the poor father had died in prison in Ceuta For two years, and as
to the mother, the old wretch had just suffer in a bed Hospital. The twists and turns the world
in ten years! Who had told them to her and to her sisters, used to
live at home and queens who end up that way?

Lord! Lord! Libradnos a bad person! ...

Rosario was encouraged with the conversation seemed to rejuvenate with this childhood friend.
His eyes, before dying, sparked by remembering the past. And your booth? What land? Remained
abandoned, right? ... This liked: busting, which is the Holy hiciesen the sons of Don Salvador
rascal! ... It was all I could comfort her. I was very grateful Pimento and to all the folks
they had prevented other work that you enter of right belonged to his family. And if someone wanted
to grab something, well known was the remedy .... Pum! A shotgun that break the head.

The girl was whipped up, shining in his eyes sparks of ferocity.

Revived in the harlot passive beast accustomed to the beatings, the
daughter of the garden, which is born from the shotgun hanging behind
the door and holidays and aims to delight the smoke of gunpowder.

After speaking of the sad past, awakens curiosity was wondering Rosario all there, and ended
in Pepeta. Poor thing!

Everyone could see she was not happy. Still young, age revealed only clear those big eyes
virgin, dupes and timid. The body, a mere skeleton, and blonde hair, color of sweet corn, and
appeared gray to handfuls before thirty years. What life gave Pimento? Ever so drunk and fleeing
work?

She had sought, by marrying against the advice of everyone. Good boy, yes, he shook everyone in
the tavern Cup on Sunday afternoon, when he played the trick with the most handsome in the garden,
but at home should be an insufferable husband .... Although In truth,
all men were equal.

If you know it! Dogs that were not worth is worth looking at them. Daughter! And what was the poor
deteriorated Pepeta! ...

A booming voice came down like thunder tomboy through the gap in the ladder.

- Elisa! ... Upload milk soon. The Lord is waiting.

Rosario began to laugh herself. Now called Elisa: Do not you know? Age requirement rename office
and speak with an Andalusian accent. And mimicked with rustic grace the voice of the invisible
tomboy.

But in spite of his joy, was quick to withdraw. He feared the above. The booming voice or The
Lord of the milk could give something bad for his delay.

He climbed the ladder faster, After much to recommend Pepeta that ever pass through there, to
remember together the things from the garden.

The weary bell rang de la Rocha over an hour through the streets of Valencia. Released the withered
teats to milk the last drop of tasteless product of a poor grass leaves cabbage and waste, and
finally undertook Pepeta back to his hut.

The poor peasant walking sad and pensive under the impression that
meeting.

Remembered like it was the day before the terrible tragedy that engulfed the Barret with whole
family.

Since then, the fields over a hundred years ago the ancestors of the poor working labrador had
been left by the wayside. His cabin, deserted, without a hand merciful to cast a patch to
the roof and a handful of mud cracks walls, was sinking slowly.

Ten years of continuous flow together had managed to ruin that people
do not take notice already on it.

Pepeta it had long had not stopped his attention to the old shack. This interest only to the
boys, who, inheriting the hatred of his parents, he plunged into
between the nettles of the barren fields to mow the abandoned house
with stones, breaking the timbers of its closed door, or blind with
dirt and stones that opened well under a very old vines.

But this morning, Pepeta, influenced by his recent encounter, he noticed debris and to stopped
on the way for a better view.

The Barret fields, or rather for her, "the Jew and his unholy Don Salvador heirs "were a blur of
misery amid the fertile garden, worked and smiling. Ten years of neglect had hardened the ground,
drawing from its neglected innards all parasitic plants, all the thorns which God has created
for the punishment of the farmer.

A dwarf jungle, tangled and misshapen spread over those fields, with a wave of foreign shades
of green, tinged here and there by mysterious and rare flowers, the kind that only arise in the ruins
and cemeteries.

Under the foliage of the jungle tiny and encouraged by the safety of his lair, grew and multiplied
all sorts of nasty, spilling into neighboring fields: Rough-backed green lizards, giant beetles with metallic
shimmer shell, spiders short-legged and hairy, even snakes that glide immediate ditches. There
living in the heart of the beautiful and neat plain, forming separate
world, devouring one to others, and even cause harm to the neighbors,
they were respected with a certain reverence, for the seven plagues
of Egypt seemed little to those of the garden to throw on those lands
are cursed.

As Barret lands would never be for men, were nesting in them bicharraco disgusting, and the more the
merrier.

In the middle of these desolate fields, which stood out on the beautiful plain as a stain of dirt
in a regal cloak of green velvet, rose the cabin, or rather this,
falling, with straw cap of gutted, teaching through the openings pierced
the wind rain and its rotten wooden ribbing.

The walls, scratched by water, showed their raw clay bricks, no more
than a very slight white spots that exposed the former whitewashed.

The door was broken underneath, gnawed by rats, with cracks that cut from one extreme to another.
Two or three windows, completely open and martyred by gales, hung from one hinge, and were
to fall at any moment, just blow a rude gust of wind.

Sorry to ruin that mood, squeezing the heart. It seemed that the left were CASUCO to shut out ghosts
in the night, who were inside screaming to people from murdered,
that the whole bush was hiding under a shroud of it hundreds of corpses.

Horrific

images was what inspired the contemplation of these abandoned fields, and highlighted even more
dismal misery when contrasted with the lands near, red, well maintained, correct full of rows
of vegetables and seedlings, to which was the autumn leaves transparency caramel. Even the birds
fled from the fields of death, perhaps for fear of the animaluchos that rebullían under brush or
by sniffing the breath of misfortune.

On the broken thatch, if anything could see was the fluttering of
black wings and treacherous funeral feathers of crows and kites, which
were shaken mute the laden trees of joyful and playful fluttering
PIID, remaining silent the garden, as if there were sparrows half-mile
radius.

Pepeta going to move forward, toward his white farmhouse, which peeked through the trees some
fields beyond, but had to lie still on the high side of the road, that he should a cart loaded
advancing stumbling and seemed to come from the city.

Her feminine curiosity was excited to notice him.

He was a poor farm cart drawn by a bony old nag, which helped in hard
bumps a tall man who was walking next to him encouraging him with
shouts and pops whiplash.

Labrador dressed, but how to wear the scarf round his head, his pants
corduroy and other details of his suit, which was not betrayed in
the garden, where personal adornment has gradually been contaminated
by the taste of the city.

Was a farmer in some remote village: kidney may come from the province.

On the car amontonábanse, forming pyramid to higher than the poles,
all kinds domestic objects.

Was the emigration of an entire family. Consumptive mattresses, straw mattresses scandalous stuffed
corn husk, esparto chairs, pans, kettles, plates, baskets, bed green benches, all piled on the
car, dirty, worn out, miserable, smelling famine, to escape desperate,
as if the march unfortunately after nipping family heels.

At the top of this mess three children could be seen hugging, which provided the fields with
wide eyes, as explorers visiting a country for the first time.

On foot and behind the cart as watching for anything out of it fell, a woman and a marching
girl, tall, slim, slim, it seemed daughter.

On the other side of the horse, helping when the vehicle is stopped
in a bad way, was a boy of eleven years.

Its exterior betrayed serious child, accustomed to struggle with
poverty, is a man at the age others play.

A dirty little dog panting up the rear.

Pepeta, supported on the back of his cow, they looked forward, ever possessed the most curiosity.
"Where would these poor people?

The way that, tributary to Alboraya not going anywhere.

Extinguished in the distance, and exhausted by the myriad branching
paths and trails that gave entrance to the barracks.

But his curiosity
had an unexpected ending. Jesus! The car left the road, crossing the
dilapidated bridge of logs and earth which gave access to the cursed
land, and is got by Barret fields, flattening their tires brush respected.

The
family remained behind, saying with gestures and words confusing the
impression that caused him misery, but straight at the wrecked cabin,
and who takes possession of what is yours.

Pepeta not want to see
more. Now I really ran to his hut. Anxious to arrive before left to
the cow and calf, and the two beasts continued their march calmly,
as who does not care about things outside the barn and has insurance.

Pimento
was lying on one side of his hut, smoking lazily, staring at three
sticks smeared with lime, put in the sun, around which fluttered some
birds. Occupation was a master.

Upon seeing his wife come to the
astonished eyes and poor chest heaving, Pimento changed positions
to hear better, recommending that does not approach the wands.

Let's
see, what was that? Have you had stolen the cow? ...

Pepeta, with
emotion and fatigue, could barely say two words together.

"The land
of Barret .... An entire family .... Iban to work, to live in the
barracks. She I had seen. "

Pimento, bird hunter with league foe
of labor and terror of the contoured, could not impassive gravity
retain great man at such unexpected news.

- Recontracordóns! ...

Got
a jump straight weighed and human muscles, and began to run without
waiting for further explanation.

His wife saw how he ran cross country
to a bluff to the lands immediately cursed