 

But Don Eleazar has found his match, while their agents, divided into two gangs operating in
the opposite direction, preparing his coup, he did not expect that in this land of paper money,
a new issue is small matter, and the tightrope with he had imprisoned his debtor, become loose,
the new issue has been done and lo that the decline has taken place more frightening.

In this situation, Mr. Eleazar has decided not to reorganize its operations. He has reason to
certain point, demands fair play, as the British fighters. In the house of the stock, everything
is allowed as in war, playing up publicly and covertly to fall; launch a cat, give notice of
sensation, ensuring that the war with Chile is a fact that our squad is in a dreadful state, that
our army will be defeated if a battle; in short, spread terror, regardless of any kind by patriotism,
but double play with guns loaded, no. That does not, it never! ... Don Eleazar in these matters
is most correct, and especially when rather than he who aims happens that is against him against
whom become the mouths of cannons. But worst of all, my friend, is not it. The worst thing is
that Don Eleazar, taking advantage of his misfortune, because it is capable of fully exploiting
and Take advantage of all, has decided not to pay anyone. A besieging him from starvation,
but he will cuts off water and bread, and with the same rope to hang him, he attempts to hang
her adversaries.

- Means that I am on the street - told the hear to end their relationship.

- Oh, no! Do you think man Don Eleazar is fired for such petty things? ... No. Your bankruptcy
is a bankruptcy that does not spoil or takes it to court, everything is solved for him in not
paying the debts are not debts Exchange, and in the case of Mr. Eleazar has not spent more or
less what happens in a bad home game when the lights go out, every player defend the fist that
can, and I assure you that your employer will know hold their own.

No panic: not lose the job.

- It alarmed me, Don Benito, by so little - I replied laughing heartily
.-- I who I resolve not to return to the desk of Don Eleazar!

I do not add up neither man nor employment.

- You do well, my friend, that honors him.

- No, Don Benito, and I honor or dishonor me, do not do a quixotic,
and would be entitled to it.

Don Eleazar has been good to me, I religiously paid my salary and has had the good sense not
to impose their business.

- What are you doing?

- Do not know, but tomorrow I'll know. Since then have you in my room: we must part!

- Separate Us?

Never! - I answered the old man craning his noble head and accompanying
his words with a strong signal that denoted a deep feeling that had
caused my resolution .-- Separate Us?

Never! - I repeat - look, July ... Look, my son - said, - let me tute you, my gray hairs I am entitled
to do so, is it true?

And as a sign I did so, continued shaky

- I have observed to date the resolution of your uncle, but I must confess that I have suffered
the see you at Don Eleazar. Such use does not love you, and I do not understand is how Ramon
has placed you there ...

- My aunt, you know ...

- Yes, that governs like a spin, but that is no reason for you to neglect. Look - I said, - today
I'll take care of you. What the hell! I am old, but I have a young soul yet: I'll be your
father and your brother at the same time. I have a bad reputation in the world: women misia
Medea hate me because I do not believe in political gods, and men like Don Eleazar also I can
go, because I can not do business that they do. We will live together, from when then hear
in my room a woman's voice ... What you want! ... I am a man ... súfreme these aberrations.
Women drive me crazy, so I had the good sense not to go crazy for one: I've gone mad for all
and I'm not married with any, I hope not into temptation to do so
in the years that I have.

I'm smiling, carefree and frank live without mysteries I take life as it is. Back in my youth
I read a lot, but I was reading one advantage of all that I have
done: there is next to the bedside: Rabelais.

When you're my age and you run the world, you'll see he was right: it is the only book help them
to die, so I despise the Jesuits.

I have no children, or rather, not I know if I have, because if they knew for sure, do not deny
a father, but doubt, you well know that it is better to abstain,
for it to take as their own works others, is a minor.

And I fled the mostly ridiculous.

I have no friends of my age: my friends are young people of yours,
I live with them, fall in love with them and scandalized this room
also with them in Buenos Aires there are many beautiful women and
so stupid that the leads.

And at the end, Don Benito wrung me in his arms and against his chest, and I do not could contain
the tears that sprang to my eyes.

The next day I showed up at the Don Eleazar, tomorrow.

The courtyard was crowded they whispered and gesticulated with animation:
Desktop doors closed.

I went and hit the glass: to open up Don Anselmo, who recognized
me, two or three people patio door fell upon the desk with the intention
of entering.

- Excuse me, can not you go ...-- Anselmo said, and
gave almost the door in his face.

And I could see that one of them raised his fist in a threatening manner.

In two words don Anselmo realized my decision to leave the house.

- Well, well, have you also been bitten by the tarantula?

- I do
not bitten any tarantula, nor I, nor I have nothing to do with those
who protest outside or against those who shut themselves in, I come
to thank Don Eleazar the honor has already made me tell my resolution.

Can I do you advertise?

- If you can not receive you ...-- Anselmo said, shaking his head.

- See if you can ... I want to fulfill what I consider a must.

Don Anselmo went on to the next room, which was that of Don Eleazar, and after a while back.

-
Don Eleazar says that can happen - he said.

I went resolutely. I will never forget the picture presented to my sight. Almost in the middle
of the room, next to a very high desk, where Mr. Anselmo used to written under the dictation
of Mr. Eleazar, skeleton sitting on a chair, was it, breakfasting in front of a table little
bigger than the dish I ate. A servant served non-stop Galician dish after dish, and Don Eleazar
ate to the severity of a bear who devours his ration.

In a corner of the room, standing, three men witnessed this collation morning in complete silence.

-
Between you, Don Julio, "We also leave you in the days of trial? ...

I explained the reasons for my resignation, trying to convince him that she was completely foreign trade
to the recent disaster, but Don Eleazar, moved, despite the appetite devouring their meats, it was
contrived to lament with words that broke their heart.

- Well, young man, since you solved it, Let us part, but you will do me some justice day ... You
see the situation that I am reduced! I lost everything! From now live the love of my family,
yes, sir, charity of the family ... Here you have me prisoner, I caught in this country who
have lavished benefits!

Do not you see, sir, that even authority is plotting against me! You see, sir, all those men
who come the glass and threatening me, are completely unknown to me! I have never had dealings
with them! I do not know! And follow me, sir, follow me to death! You see a I'm small! A not to
eat these snacks at home, they are even able to poison!

And if not for my faithful John (exclaimed looking expressively Galician that served lunch),
if not for him, who knows what would have happened to me!

But I will reward you someday ... you know that everything I lost,
I have nothing that therefore I can not fulfill my commitments!

Say, John, at all, it is possible than you might think you are! ... Say you, Young, secure,
you know my business, all are clear, as public as legitimate!

... You know, gentlemen ... I have been a victim of people (adding faced with Don Anselmo answered
with an affirmative sign) without law and principles! ... You know, Don Anselmo, you know all
my business, she knows my house!

... I can not meet, and do not feel much for me, but so wonderful person who I have to injure, against
all my feelings!

... You see, you see how threatening these men! It I believe I stayed
with some of them!

... Thanks, John, thank you, my son, pour me tea, I have no appetite! ... Try it yourself first,
see if you have bad taste!

... Ah, gentlemen, I have a conscience! ...

And while Don Eleazar complained, all I heard in silence, as appalled
by the horrible disaster of that providential man who swallowed like
a shark, in the midst of catastrophe of his fortune.

FUEM necessary to cut a blow that eternal farewell elegy and forever
from that den that had been eight months.

What is wrong with the world!

Upon leaving the creditors of the courtyard that the foaming mouth, said Don Eleazar had made
five hundred thousand dollars of profit and that they lived on the
street.

Who could believe it?

XI

Strictly wearing ties in white, with a fraction of Poole and a pair
of pumps by Thomas, Don Benito penetrated one night in my room, elegant
young as a boy of twenty years.

I dressed slowly, that night I made my debut at the club. The club! ... It is not necessary say
it is the Progress Club of which I speak, and that dance is a dance perspective July: the
great attraction of the season in Buenos Aires.

- Are you still
in that state told me I ?...-- complicated preparations for his shirt
- is one almost!

...

- Ah! What do you think? Is serious prepare a shirt ... I remember you opening.

- Ca! an elegant man is not made, born ... Look at me - I said - Picture in the middle of room.

-
Well, be patient, I'm not you ... I'm not smart ...

- Yes, but you Blanquita block, right?

... And I guess you tend to come on as a woo, look who is a woman so loose and light as the
mother ... and I want to know.

- Do not kid with Whitey, and I know that White block and I have a girlfriend ...

- Okay, marry it, but it falls to ... Do not be silly ...

- What
if my advice?

- Do not!

The mother loves you and the mother is the protector of that child.

- Oh! Fernanda known me lad was twenty years old when I was ten or twelve but the daughter ...

- The daughter is like the mother, both are women of courage and breakdown,
pretty as a dove and dangerous as two wolves.

- Tonight will be radiant,
are the queens of the dance, Mr. Montifiori will shine his legation
vacancy.

- Montifiori!

    ... What kind of man is Montifiori?

...

- I'll tell you later ... go, tie the tie soon.

- Will right? Very big the bow, right? ...

- No, it is well, women do not look at it, the neck of men are indifferent.

Well, put on your coat, excellent! You're a lord. If I had your body and your years and you
my experience! ...

- Always the old proverb, Don Benito! ... Ah! nothing is complete in the world.

I wandered through my room, I took my gloves, put the half-light gas
and left me and my old partner.

It was cold all the devils, but Coupe Don Benito was at the door; lock ourselves into it and
started to slide on the rails of the tramway to everyday use. In five minutes we were on the
block from Club del Progreso, we had to wait a few minutes more so that you come to our carriage
approaching the turn, and finally got off at the door among a group
of men and women coming up the stairs softly upholstered hastily and
adorned with flowers and green wreaths.

Who does not know the Club for a night of dancing? The entrance is certainly no input Elysee Palace
and the ladder is not a marvel of architecture.

However, for the old Buenos Aires who has never left Buenos Aires, or the young provincial who
just arrived from the province, the Club is or was at one time, something like a dream mansion whose
chronicle is full of prestigious romances and which is not as penetrating
to all mortals.

Don Benito knew the house from its foundation and enjoyed it a unique influence. Al come, young
and old greeted him affectionately as an old friend.

The good old, putting his left arm back, took me to the glass booth
where we took the overcoats and we consulted a moment the figure on
the mirrors.

At that time the orchestra played the last part of the gangs of Carmen ...

Toreador, en garde toreador ...

and Bizet's music is saturated, so to speak, in the very blood of Merimee, distributed the
body of the women who made the paintings, the warm tones that the young master been rhyme that
strange love poem commoners and low revenge.

The lounge, hybrid, where the refined taste of a clubman race would have much to scratch, disappear
before the compact mass of men and women who filled.

My old friend gave me his arm and together we take our place at the Buenos Aires bouquet that way
every year in July with the accuracy with which they celebrated an anniversary.

It is a dance club where Progress can be studied in stages thirty years of Buenos Aires social
life: there have made their first steps by today's grandparents.

The gilded youth of the center founded 52 years of good tone, mainly Creole, which has not
nor ever had the distinction aristocratic English club or one of the chic clubs Paris. However,
being of the Club del Progreso, even back in 70, was chic, as was be corny Club del Plata,
with forgiveness after their partners.

The entrance was something hard, did not enter either: he had to be the best whipped cream
social and political bourgeoisie to tread the soft carpets of the
great room or sit play a game of whist in the classic games of the
portraits is at the forefront of the street Victoria.

In this last room, long and cold as a vestibule, which has been papered it a hundred times less than
green or light blue and has spent fifty different items casings what's Iturriaga, born a generation
which are being very few representatives.

There has bitten the urban gossip revelers players, husbands skulls a dissolute and dissipated
youth, and every bite of indignant mom has made havoc of smallpox
in the moral portrait of the victims.

The slander of the large village is like slander of the Barber of Seville: the passing of Hurricane
VENTICELL and woe to him who is involved in the blast!

The Progress Club has been the pepinera of many public men who have studied in their Banquet constitutional
law, literature easy to learn without books, burn the midnight lamp on a chess table, and I do
not know why, it strikes me that some of the portraits May the men
who witness this group of thinkers, makes a face every time a chicken
accompanied by a discourse on freedom of suffrage with a blow that
sits on the checkerboard a queen check by the mob of survivors pawns!

Missing father's portrait there Castañeda! And above all, lack the spirit! Also twenty thirty
years, to do the same!

Until recently, the library was not very heavy so to speak.

Many memory, much Register Official on condition of not being ever when asked, and at the table reading
Buenos Aires all day, empty and sterile as sheets of a nun, wearing
article editorial front, long lead track, in order to avail myself
of a biblical figure, fatigue horses of the imagination.

At the table reading the Illustrated London and New Revue (Would be almost useless to add des
Deux Mondes, if not to talk in the club), the Revue in which M. of Mazade Article bourgeois occurs at
a time and Lanfrey Forcade signed and some French newspapers almost
always serve as decoration, as these branches dry rot in forgotten
rooms for servants.

Despite this, anyone would think it reads ... None of that!

There he speaks: in the group of kids happy and spiritual, which falls at 12 pm, repeating
the last note of Tamagno, not missing a copy of dense bourgeois gargantuan,
gourmet night owl, fattened and enriched by the free womb of his cows
that right there made to serve a sausage per night, while the deep
disdain Gross happy, sloppy dress, stripped to the ill-content, look
what surrounds you with a satisfied apathy, putting his hand to blackish
hair and dander that dredging inert mollera with the sharp nail of
the index.

Not lacking either the village idiot, Magin decomposed, the candidate of crooks, victim village
jokes, crazy ideas about philanthropy, gasping with admiration and
blinking with one eye palsy suffering from intermittent, while the
pupil of another comes out as the pit of a peach Prisco.

Neither Tenorio suburb that does not change, that is seen today as yesterday, with beads altar
and fixed-price items, healthy, tame, inoffensive, good and forgotten
mortified by those who still believe that it is fashionable to censure
or ridicule of the innocent.

And between this company and colorless Hybrid Memory of a minister, my friend Don Benito, purge
and noble whose honesty is confounded by the contemporary positivism
sleep a dreamer, he would suddenly explode with noble sarcasm, probably
feeling how sterile have been the misfortunes of the past and how
fate has dealt unfairly favors its in the present.

But the club is the club that night, violins, laughing under the bowstrings,
conveyed the joy and excitement of music unique to every face.

Standing in front of the door that leads to the grand staircase from
the dining room, I followed the flight coiled couples impelled by
the hot breath of a waltz by Metra. I do not know why these fascinating
waltzes, compliments and undulating phrases that seem drawn into the
ether magic baton by the teacher, gave me a deep melancholy, bringing
me to remember Hugo verses that provides, through the windows fogged
by the cold of the night, the body of his beloved bound by the arm
of an opponent happy.

But several show! 

Much ideal and attractive
woman under the loving story of these modern fabrics, accomplices
meat and contour this materialistic century woven with bird wings
or petals exotic flowers! How disgusting to be grotesque ugliness
of painful stunting, jumping graceless, marking shrill note of ridicule!

What
a contrast!

How many foreign faces, necks hanged for outdated, wearing
ties satin dove, Byzantine enfracada with trousers in the form of
pipe and boorish Brazilian booty!

How old cock free picks, struggling
against time in vain, with weak arms the unguents! How to be tasteless,
gasping and withering satisfied with your treatment unbearable so
many beautiful and reckless woman seeking without finding your ideal!

Mom
much flattened at the people passing, serving on the sofas Cairn Lamp
cream!

How tolerant husband who gives his woman hawks claw and is
in the buffet with the practicality of a believer!

How old fool,
dying from head to toe, turned on a page, who reeks of mint from further
and install their claims intolerable to any beautiful woman, so that
will curdle the tasty world renowned lucky! How happy boy and philosopher,
chickens the village, who know the village and taking the game with
the good humor of the disbelievers!

The dance was at its height,
when I heard about a whisper. Two women in the big world entered the
room and couples parted to give way. Don Benito accompanied a of them,
and the other against the strictest rule of our rooms, walking alone
on the side. Don Benito came straight to where I was talking to a
group of friends.

- Julio! - Told me with the most perfect and aristocratic
manners: - Fernanda! - And turning around and pointing to the youngest,
he repeated, as any presentation: - White!

I leaned revere and look
up, I tuck my partner eighteen years has theater! ...

- I think we
are old friends - Fernanda told me .-- And as if to reassure, Added:
- But you're a man!

- Lady ... Miss !....

And a fine view of Don
Benito, almost imperceptible, I extended my arm and White hung him
with a frank and sweet abandon