 The long separation from the motherland, the stubborn persistence of the
struggle, the short-lived occupation of land that is often reduced to the same country boundaries
day camp and in battle to land the fight, influence, finally, the prolonged military life,
had made Argentine and Colombian officials prototype Men's Light in thought and action, brilliant
insouciance of future, living au jour le jour, knowing that value paid, and certain that the
flow not finish.

At last, one gave. Is the most patriotic, the most reasonable? Much has been said about that interview
of Guayaquil, which some historians, for whom things are always independent the pitch of the tragedy,
wanted to meet with a mysterious veil and raise the level of major historical problems! North
of Ecuador, the act of San Martin was not the compliance respectful of the genius and the right
of his rival, on the south, the supreme self-sacrifice a big heart, the inspiration of patriotism,
in generous self-sacrifice for the sake of the American cause. In my eyes (and well I am daring
to talk about these things, then voice as high and authorized), but not sacrifice the retreat of
General San Martin. It's all about moral organization, Bolivar, retiring to private life, or
San Martin, keeping blood and fire its primacy in Peru, have been made so far beyond logic, as
opposed to its natural character as were the various roles they played in the drama. I can
think ...-- Bolivar Bolivar assume born on Argentine soil, member of the lodge Lautaro (Alvear
there could find his master) - winner in San Lorenzo, transient general of the Northern army,
organizer, finally, the Army of the Andes. What would have been his attitude towards the internal
situation of the country under Rondeau directory? Would like San Martín, disobeyed, crossed
the mountain, and giving back to anarchy, moreover, the agony of the new nation, free to come
to Peru? Had he once won in Peru, given way to San Martin from the north, embarcádose, and come
face the beaches of their homeland, denied to step on them, because the raging civil war, to
go to end in the life of a bourgeois thoughtful, his career and light action? And there, in
the house in the suburbs of Brussels, Bolívar, in 1830, when people knock on your door, asking
him leading the uprising against an oppressor so hated as the Spanish ... Would you have answered
the Belgians with the dry logic of San Martín? In my view, the courses in American history would
have changed profoundly, the spirit is lost in the conjecture, but the study of the characteristics
of these two men can ensure that their action identical media, have been mixed.