 From
there it was said the most discreet and courteous gentleman at that age did Italy that 'peace and
war was so marked, if fame is not ungrateful, always in the world publish his praise and clearly
show that nowadays few kings or lords large we have seen that greatness of mind in knowing
and all have not been lower under compared to him. " He had fought the Portuguese in Toro, to
the Muslims in Granada, Alpujarras in the Moorish rebels in Ostia to the fiercest of pirates, the
Turkish Kefalonia, and Italy to the French, disrupting their hosts, beating their kings and
most distinguished leaders and won for Spain the most beautiful of that peninsula. Had acquired
and lavished great wealth, had won a trophy of their victories over two hundred flags and two royal
standards, and had ensured that he celebrated and admired in all Spain, in Aragon and Castile.

Victim
and suspicion, and perhaps the envy of the King, retired disillusioned sick their domains of
Loja, devastated after seeing the strength of Montilla, who was his
crib and severely punished many of his relatives and friends.

Gonzalo tells that one day he visited his elderly cousin Dona Beatriz
Enriquez, who had and been a friend of the late Admiral D. Christopher
Columbus, who retained long in Spain despite the contempt of the Court.

Case

against Dante, as often cited, is not always painful, but tasty sweet memories of the happy
age of the young loves and triumphs and adventures that then achieved. Doña Beatriz in his old
age and isolation, she was comforted by seeing and talking to his
glorious mourner.

Was lively conversation that he had.

Doña Beatriz was expansive and just ended up being boastful. Proudly declared which was glorified
for having loved the Genoese adventurer, having discovered and recognized
all his worth and spirit have believed and hoped in the lofty mission
entrusted to him heaven, when they were still very few men who scorned
him.

- For me - he said - he stayed in Spain man sent from God.

In large part I should Spain the glory of having broken her the secret mysteries of the seas and
islands have discovered flourishing and extensive land, rich in pearls and gold, which still gets
as bulwark to prevent us from reaching Cipango, to Cathay and the empire of Prester John, where they
penetrate and The Portuguese, following opposite paths and navigating
to the regions where it was thought I had her closet the Aurora.
