 All these Indians begins the day with a swim, and scratch the day are already underway:
the top to make about eight for lunch, and before going any further take a second bathroom.
At noon they stop again for an hour for lunch, and then navigate until evening. When the traveler
is a personage of distinction, send administrators a canoe loaded with food, where food is
prepared hours to rule without detensiones waste time. In all traffic Indians play their tasks
with greater heat as possible and not given an idea of ??the lengthy care that cater to travelers,
while always alert to guess and to prevent their children wishes.

When you have to climb a river, usually go from eight to ten miles per day, and when Vogue downstream
is usually double this distance, but this depends on the varying speed current, variable in each
river, and also of the rowers, whose skill and activity not all parts are of equal rank. Each
nation has its particular way of paddling: the Itonama will sit and paddle with lots of precipitation;
the Cayuvava, also seated row slowly but forcefully, while the Baures remain standing as if more
Drive to the oars. Of all these nations the Cayuvava are more famous rowers, and try to preserve
their reputation, striving to excel in speed to all vessels foreigners who are on their way.
These natives have a habit of bathing three times a day when they go on journey, to practice, they stop
suddenly, thrown into the water, dive and return, to peel his shirt dress, then continued walking.
All Once Moxos come to bathe, teach their backs covered with scars that appear to burns, and which
are simply the result of the flogging of Holy Week. Among them manifest themselves proud of
carrying such signs on their bodies, mocking with certain irony for those who do not.

When the weather is beautiful, the heat which prevails to this noon in the narrow callegon
formed by flakes and ancient trees that adorn the banks of rivers,
never come to be tempered by the slightest breeze and passengers,
the traveler then throwing less vivifying air of the past week, want
the night with impatience, but as soon as This involves land, dense
vapors rising from the river, and is a very wet morning as if it had
rained all night tough.

When it rains during the day with no storm, leaving thousands of mosquitoes forests, and taking
refuge in canoes, torture to the poor travelers, who too suffer such discomfort at night. If
time becomes extremely bad, the Indians built a hut haste cane under which the travelers to
get insured against the torrents of rain, and if this continues, They also built for spacious
cabins, so that in a few moments becomes camp in a hamlet where many days remain until the
wind subsides. The waves that promote strong winds in the large rivers are not, as we have said,
the only danger to which the traveler is nswer passing through those places. Sandy gullies derrepente
usually subside over the water, dragging down one of the giant trees that stand on the banks,
whose roots are huge behind a huge mass of land. If all this debris falling by chance on fragile
boat, make it disappear completely, but when this happens, would be sufficient to make waves
capsized the projection, which excite such collapses within waves.

Sometimes up rivers in the rainy season, the Indian venture to go through among the arms that
form the islands, where the current is less evident fast, however, these arms are often found
in their shots blocked by thick trunks that have piled up the waters, if the rowers trying to
save the way they get by small narrow where the current is very impetuous, tangle the canoe
through the branches, and is filled water at a time: just alarmed are cast into the river
course, and I swam, and Bolivia on the branches, holding the boat without sinking, until they
reach their assistance in the other canoes.