 It's amazing the interest that the show wakes up, giving rise to the advantageous
speculation made by resellers of tickets. Your gain is often fifty percent and sometimes much
higher, when the first Matador is a sword or of the great art notables, princes of the heroic
butchery.

Not making a complete description of the bullfight. No traveler and writer eminent customs boasted
that no matter your skill description: at same if I try to imitate them, or my description would
be pale and mediocre, or to interest much would that be plagiarism. So, I confine myself to
the comments referred to the most salient features of that vigorous
and original drama.

In Colombia, thank God, the bulls are not a permanent institution. Each year, for the feast of
the saint-patron, or the anniversary of independence, there are public rejoicing, essentially
democratic, lasting from three to eight days. During that time, none in the city ??and the people
have other occupation than that of fun, except those who speculate the fun, having fun and doing
business at the same time. There, the holidays are a set curious bullfights, dances, field trips,
drama, raffles and games patriotic songs, banquets and picnics, concerts, exhibitions, rants,
etc.., etc. But it's all popular and the public, everything is free, passenger, and like all original
passenger, passionate and feverish. Spend the holidays, it starts the last stake of the barriers
and balconies makeshift bullring, and there is no trace of the noisy and varied scene. Until
next year, at the same time, it becomes to think about it. In addition, it has not or horse-Torunos
no casualties in the square, and it is rare that dead men tell or seriously injured, in spite
of the disorder which presides over the runs and the wonders of brandy,
liquor chicha and other streams running to the thousands of throats.

In Spain, the bulls are a chronic drama. Each city has its permanent place, species heterogeneous
gladiatorial circus (a horned and polled other), and the station bull runs from almost the beginning
of spring until late autumn. Winter dispersed to the bullfighters
and gives respite to older horses and bulls. The classic capital of
bullfighting are Madrid, Seville, Valencia and Barcelona