 Imagine you, how I
have to be able to marry that the general's nephew, still madly in love with someone else?
Be rich, be handsome, will count, will be all that the general will, though I suspect I do not
know why, that must be an Andalusian gentleman, born and raised in a poblach칩n, lisping much,
throwing it so funny, and more on purpose to shine at trade shows, dress nice, and capture the
heart of the Roma and the cool, who agrees to appear as the elegant rooms, inspiring true and
deep love to a young lady and make well-educated then happy. You see, Mom, I have no reason
to love your nephew and future to prefer my Greek. And do not give me the objection that my
Greek is to be a heretic or schismatic. Fixed-that is very good Catholic. If it were, there would be
such a good friend of Father Gonzalez, who I introduced him in the sacristy, for over a week.
Do you hear, Mom? ... What? ... Do you I want to go crazy? Now it is the Father Gonzalez, who
answered me. He says that the narcissistic Greek is not natural and ever, but migratory and temporary.
Said to be the first secretary of the legation of Spain in Athens and Constantinople, who came to
Madrid for four months of licensed real.

(Back Manolita to talk by phone.)

Listen, Father Gonz치lez, whatever it is, you have nearly all the guilt that I have known and treated
narcissist, I have walked with him through the deserted streets of Retiro and along the banks
of the pond, leaving Dona Rita very respectable distance: so so You Have pity on us and preach
to my mother and generally not to persist in that I get married with
that abominable nephew ...

Heavens!

What props horrible, how complicated conspiracy against a poor inexperienced girl. I do not speak
the Father Gonzalez, the general tells me. Is your home and not the narcissist from which speaks
to me .-- Yes? ... Eh ... Today is outrageous to me more and more insolent than ever.

Mom has been playing with the doctor sitting with the Father Gonz치lez.

The general advantage the chance to unleash your tongue against me:

His nephew is not abominable, but adorable, that I presume too discreet and list and I'm a
spoiled little child, willful and stubborn, and that if he had presented to me Narcissistic and nephew,
I would have found it vulgar and ugly and had been jilted; and it has been necessary to build
all the props and conspiracy, in which mother entered the general,
the doctor, Father Gonz치lez and even Dona Rita, so I created a Greek
or Turkish narcissistic and he fell in love with me.

Look here, General, please report yourself and do not insult me. Think what you want. The I think
and argue is that I want and I need a narcissist, but I know I will
not say if, happy or angry, that is the nephew of you, and it is almost
as insolent as you, so mocking and so heartless. You offend me by
word, because it is far from me