 It will also be when the season ends, and they all invited to my wedding.
And you, Gabriel, do not think getting married?

- For me, not to
be outdone - I said - I say that when the war will marry me as well.

"And with whom?", You say. Well, I marry a countess.

- With a countess!

- Yes, sir, a countess who possesses all these countries we're seeing and others there, and has
two coats with eight silver and fourteen wolves on pots, with half
head Moor and a sign that says ...

- Take smokehouse and woman who
can spin - Marijuán said, interrupting -.

Did not say who marries a countess? Duchess will be with a mop. But say, what castles your girlfriend
is real?

- This is a simpleton who does not know what is being said - noted D. Diego -. Countess will
Lucida it! Well, as I said, guys, my girlfriend is very upsetting waiting is over the war to
marry me. So I've been told, and I believe. I bet you're raging Find out who he is and what
it's called, but that does not have to lie, because my mother and Mrs. D. Paco told me if I
talked about this before you get the chance, punish me not letting me mounted on the rack. How
beautiful it is, gentlemen! Her eyes are two stars, as that great and very clear that he is on
the roof of the house, her mouth is composed of two sheets of pink, his teeth make all the pearls
make a run of envy, his cheeks are open carnations and when she cries, her tears are diamonds.
I have not seen more that figure, because they have you know that when I went to visit his aunts
in Cordoba, I got a medalloncito with the portrait has to be my wife, which portrait, for fear
of losing me, what I have to keep Mr de Santorcaz.

- That seems - said one of the listeners - the story of Princess Laureola, through whom came of Mecca
three Moorish kings, and tells the story that his eyes were burning jet, the mouth of pomegranate
flowers, and ears of snails from the sea. Did you know?

- That is the romance of the Queen dwells, gross.

What does that have to do with the princess Laureola?

- I know the
romance of the Queen dwells - shouted D. Diego, clapping -.

Did you miss?

- Come.

- No: the railing of the sky, which is more beautiful and speaks of the Virgin - added Condesito, Joyful
able to showcase his skills -.

  My sister taught me presentation,
  who knows twenty-seven
  all tack and said before the
  Bishop of Guadix, when His Excellency
  stood at home last month.

And
  wait until your rogasen, the
  Rumble morgado with school singsong
  voice, sweet and sour and effeminate
  gestures, began the following
  litany:
  
  On the railing of the sky
  a girl walks white, blond
  and red, that shines like a star San Juan tells Jesus "Who is that
girl?"

"Our Lady, good St. John, cute and beautiful our mother "; Virgin is not alone: angels come with
it; does not come dressed in gold, or silver, or silk: comes dressed
in scarlet .... ..........................

And at the end of this
relationship was welcomed with loud applause, the reciter animóse
and saddled us another, equally famous, beginning:

Up at that height,
is a clear source, where the Virgen lava His holy breasts and face
.... ............................

- No more romance! - Santorcaz
suddenly exclaimed, scaring us all with her a break -.

  That is a matter of boys and
  men not formal. Do you know
  more than that?
  
  - I know a lot more - the boy said shyly -.

Don Paco has taught me many, and makes me learn by heart to tell them in the gatherings.

- "Nothing else has taught you that Mr. D. Paco, who from the first moment I and MP for a great
dunce?

- History has taught me also, yes, sir.

And I know what our father Adam and that of Alexander when he went to give battle to the Persians,
and now let us give to the French.

- Is that all?

- Takes!, Also Latin, but my dear mother told not bunged me the head
of Latin, since it was not necessary, and finally D. Paco said to
know a little muse Musa enough.

- What books have you read?

- Nothing
but the Sinners Guide, which is what the hell.

It is very ugly book, and my dear mother would not let me read more
than what the hell, who gives a lot of fear and dreams with it.

But my dear mother has other books in the chest, and when he went to Mass, I very cautiously
pulled them out to read them. One is titled The sputtering, or converted comic, novel written
by a monk minimum, and another, Princess, Whore and martyr, St. Afra. Both books are very nice,
and bring a one of love and kisses, that I was secretly glad Ouando I read them.

Santorcaz smiled. After a pause, he said rather smugly:

- "So you have not read the encyclopedia?

- What is that?

- The Cincopedia - shouted one -.

Hey, do you know where Cincopedia falls?

This word, which acquired fortune that night, was going from mouth
to mouth, and over a hundred the repeated between buzz and chacota.

-
I see that you are around animals - Santorcaz said, a little smart -.

Anyway, Mr. D. Diego, education you received could not be more deplorable in a young primogeniture,
which what it has to stand out from others in society, must cultivate his understanding.

- Well, friend - said Rumble - you tell me stuff that I like. All you I said yesterday, when we
were on the way over here, I was delighted, and I swear that if was on the verge of getting
married and was necessary to continue to tutor, I would tell my dear mother I will put you
in place of D. Paco, which I reached it taught me not geese and more than nonsense.

- As a young man again to occupy such a high position in the world must know something more
than the romance of rail in the sky. Truth is, or I am much mistaken, or all of entails, it
will trap, and sooner or later things will be made so that each is the son of his works.

- It should be - added Marijuán -.

Are not we all God's children?

- Come here and respond - Santorcaz said, arousing the curiosity of
his listeners -.

Is not it seems the world is badly managed?

Several mouths were opened in astonishment, and did not hear any response.

- Well I have not read any book - said at last one of those present - say God has to retake
the world, because that will take you to all who came first the womb, and the others are dancing
pelao is not well.

My brother the oldest, just because you felt like being born before me, has three paddocks and
two houses and others ... had to get a monk, another went to Peru, another is dying of hunger
in a hospital in Seville, and I, gentlemen, I had to get involved in smuggling so as not to I froze
the roof of the mouth.

- Hey, Marijuán - said another - you know
what I had in Seville?

Well, the Board would Sidekick put with the other Boards for removing
many bad things in Spain's government, which we can do without the
French come to show us.

[2]

- It must be - observed Santorcaz -.

I have said that Sevilla are secret societies.

- What is that?

- I know - said a -. Luis is right.

In Sevilla there is what they call flamasones men bad night to come together to make spells
and witchcraft.

- What are you saying? There are no such spells. My master was also to such boards, and when
his wife taunted him, he replied that there were entered in the manner of philosophers and did not
harm anyone.

- Well, in Madrid the secret societies are still in its infancy -
added Santorcaz -.

In France, there are thousands, and everyone fits into them.

- Well if I go to Madrid - the morgado said emphatically - the first thing I will do is get involved
one of these societies, where no doubt be learned very good things. Is not it true, D. Luis?
I have nothing clumsy: I know him, yes, gentlemen. Would you believe, Mr. Santorcaz, that what you
said of entail I had happened to me many times when playing in the
backyard with the chickens?

But since you teach me what I know, answer me to a question: why do we have in our houses many
old papers full of scribbles and why we use these shields with frogs
and snakes?

Of my house has four alligators and a chessboard with two very cute Calderito.

- If these signs represent something - said Santorcaz - is concerning the first of their use
their deeds, if he did, or their privileges, if he had, but today,
my friend, these paintings not worth anything, and within a few years,
that having no money, be a poor ragamuffins, anyone who came over
as well as anyone who has made a fortune work or excel for their talent,
will bienquisto in the world, even if you or a dram lizard on his
shield.

- "So - asked the lad - I'll be a ragamuffins if I lose my
heritage or am I a brute?

This is really good.

- Nothing, nothing - said a -.

Outside primogeniture, and all brothers and females entering to inherit equally.

- That can not be - observed Marijuán - because then there would be large houses overlooking
luster to the kingdom.

- That can not be - said a third -. Why, do the King would be so stupid
that removed primogeniture?

Nothing, nothing, the account will always have it.

- Is that if
the King does not take away, some would remove them - added Santorcaz.

Everyone laughed at hearing support the idea that there is a will
superior to the will del Rey.

- How can that be?

If the King does not want ... Is there anyone who is on top of the
King?

The King commands everywhere, and say whatever they want, no more
than its real sacred will.

Guys, live Fernando VII!

- But come here, dunces - said Santorcaz -.

Do you say that no one commands more than the King?

- No more.

- And if all the Spanish say with one voice: "Do we want this, Mr. King, we feel like the do this
", what would the King?

Were opened everyone's lips again, and nobody could answer.

Footnote # Page #

[2] exact words of the Supreme Junta of Seville.

XIX

- Gaznápiros, animals, if you're proving what I say - he said vigorously D. Luis -. What happens
in Spain, what is? Is that the kingdom has been willing to do one thing and doing, against the advice
of King and Emperor. Three months ago was in a bad Aranjuez Minister King sustained a fool, and
said: "We do not want the Minister or the King" and went Godoy and Charles abdicated. After Ferdinand
VII placed his troops in the hands of Napoleon, and officials all, as the generals and chiefs
of the garrison, were ordered to turn his head to Joachim Murat, but the locals said: "We
do not feel like obeying the King or infants, either to the Council or Board, or Murat ", and stabbed
the French Park and on the streets. What happens next? The new and the old King go to Bayonne,
where they looked the tyrant in the world. Fernando says: "The Crown of Spain belongs to me,
but I gave it to you, Mr. Bonaparte. " And Carlos said: "The Corona is not my son, but mine,
but to end disputes, I gave it to you, Mr. Napoleon, because that is very upset and what you
can fix yourself. " And Napoleon takes the crown and gives it to his brother, while turning
to you says: "Spanish, I know your troubles and I will correct them."

But you rear up with that, and answered: "No, comrade, this does not fit you. If have scabies, we
scraped it: no more King of Spain Ferdinand VII. "Fernando heads to the Spanish and told to
obey Napoleon, but in the meantime, guys, a man who is called mayor of a town two hundred
neighbors write a scrap of paper saying to be armed all the French, this scrap of paper going
from town to town, and like a fuse that set fire to several mines scattered here and there, you
lift your step the nation from Madrid to Cadiz.

For the North goes the same, and the large towns, the same small form their boards, which read:
"No, if this does not send anyone but us. If you do not recognize the abdication, nor admit
to that D. King Joseph, and we feel like to obey the Emperor, because
the Spanish sent in our house, and if the kings have to govern ourselves,
we do not our mothers have given birth to them we lead and bring us
as if we were flocks of sheep ... "Are we?

Do you understand? Well this, no more no less, is what is happening here. And now answer me the
cork oak hear me: who's in charge, who arranges things, who makes and breaks, the king and kingdom?

The
amazement that produced these revealing words in the friendly competition, consisting of boys
rude and ignorant, but very vivid imagination, was so extraordinary that a short time there was not
the slightest voice, a sure sign that the ideas expressed by Santorcaz, coming up suddenly in the dark
cacúmenes of his listeners, there were armed great zipizape and dust, leaving them dazed, confused
and speechless. The first to break Rumble was silence, saying:

- It's all very well said.

"For days will believe that I had a similar idea when I was catching flies and putting them
in a certain part tails so that the fly did laugh my two sisters who were praying? Only I
did not know how to say what I thought.

- Yes, gentlemen, live Boards! - Said one, standing up -. I know that paper memory who took
to the streets of Cordoba, saying ... Hear me, "Córdoba: the kingdoms of Andalusia are undertaken
by the murderers of the North; your country is going to be oppressed
under the yoke a tyrant yourself you shall be plucked from your homes
and your houses.

Forty rings is carving a lascivious Murat to lead you to the north and to the unclean animals
... Soldiers, howl of rage and fury! ... Twelve million people are watching and envying you
your glory, and even France itself forward for your success. "

Loud applause and cheering greeted this proclamation, faithfully recited with dramatic gestures for
the boy.

- Yes the Spanish - then continued Santorcaz - can do what they are
doing, do not can also say tomorrow: "We do not want no more no more
Inquisition Let's say ...?», links ... Or they say: "Instead of a
thousand monasteries, which have so only half, which is more than
enough "or" I feel like there tithes ... "

- That would be good -
said Marijuán -.

But if all the Spanish are going to do that, and each begins to throw
his side saying what she wants, she will become such a labyrinth that
not be interpreted.

- Go around dunces - added Santorcaz -. But come
here, do not you see that is in Seville a Board that is available?
Do you not see that there is another in Granada, Cordoba and another
one in Malaga etc.? Well, instead of all those small governing boards
in each village, can not be a very big meets in Madrid and agree what
to do?

They looked listeners each other, and monosyllables of acquiescence
and admiration ran word of mouth, showing how quickly those young
minds deployed its wings, still stiff and hesitant to try to describe
the first circles in space of thought.

These conversations love with
me - said the young Count of Rumble -