 Ideally, china, no heart. So do not feel love for anyone.

- Then, it seems that you give you cheated.

- As deceived not. God forbid! Leonardo has left me no other and I
think I leave.

If you would not be suspected even telling you from this chair.

-
What more do you want, woman?

I fear that peje not return to bite on your hook.

- What do you know?

Cecilia asked scared.

- Nothing, nothing, Nemesia repeated. But I can not forget the sign said Clara, Uribe's wife: each
with each.

- I do not understand.

- Lighter can not be. "Password Clara has more experience than us? Absolutely. Is of age and has
seen double world that you and me.

Well, if often repeated that said, why good to have. Here, between ourselves, Naída has told
me, but I know that Clara always sign liked more whites than the
brown, well durito and Uribe Sr. married.

Of course, took more burned and disappointments that hair on its head, so now repeating consoles
girls like you and me, each with each.

Do you understand?

- Yes, well, just do not see how I come the refrain.

- Here is identic, sweety, you take by law.

Would not you prefer the white to brown, Clara as a sign?

- I do
not deny that I do like a lot more white than brown.

I fall face of shame if I was married and had a son saltoatrás.

- Do not kid yourself, woman bonitura, love, love, perseverance, nothing subject to the whites.
Then Leonardo is not going to marry you not by the church.

- Why not? Cecilia replied hotly. He promised to me and keep his word. Otherwise I would not want
as I want.

- Ay! I am very sorry to hear you talk like that, but would not take away the illusion. You
just say you open your eyes, lest evil has come too late. Do not trust, do not trust, and always
have mind that the flying ants get wings burned.

- He who dies for
his love, until death you know.

- I understand, but if one died suddenly,
without pain, no work, go, is all for God.

The case is China, which before death will suffer a lot. Come here, does it hurt so much when a
man White leaves us a woman of color, as when we left for a white? Did You? That yes it hurts.
And I figure that you are you're going through that now. So do not talk, or say I will not drink
this water.

It provided Cecilia to deny the accuracy of the simile when he appeared on the patio door José
Dolores Pimienta, and if she could not or could not say what he thought
he was dumb and static in the doorway of the room.

I did not expect such a company, let alone at that hour of the night.

Replacement after his surprise, said in brief sentences how glad
selected of view.

Cecilia said she had come only to give a caradita Nemesia, and began
up to leave.

- I have good news to give, said the musician.

The dance label people of color has agreed to give the day before
Christmas Eve at the home of Soto, Jesus corner Mary.

Of course, the girl is uninvited in front, and is expected to go Nemesia Clara and password,
and Mercedita Ayala, and all friends.

     
     It will be a dance flourish.

        Will check, I tell you the lady.

- The easiest thing is that I can
not attend, said Cecilia.

Chepilla is not good and I'm afraid to leave alone.

- Well if you lack the lady, that there will be light to illuminate
the dance.

- I did not know you were so flattering, "said Cecilia,
smiling and moving toward the door.

- Miss Do not go alone, "said
Jose Dolores.

- Nobody will eat, you lose care.

No bother. Goodbye!

Notwithstanding his refusal, the musician and his sister Cecilia accompanied to the door house
where he lived.

CHAPTER XVII

And to the extent that thought can win Of steel makers was clear to cross.

Luaces JL

José Dolores Pimienta said that the dance of people of color are held at the Soto home. It
occupies the western corner of the Rue de Jesus Maria, in his meeting with walkway Monte, opposite
the Champ de Mars.

Precedes the hallway or entrance portal with a wide wooden railing. From this, alterations windows,
fully open, could the public, without the right to enter, attend to your taste the party. In
the square courtyard, which was covered with a sheet, put on their
tables ambiguous in the dining room the orchestra played, in the very
large dance hall and the rooms are rested and had intimate conversations
of friends or lovers.

The decorations of the room was reduced to a red damask hangings, the national color, collected
flags with blue ribbons, at the height of the lintels of doors and windows. The lighting was
provided by candles of pure semen, burning large crystal chandeliers, with a profusion of
prisms that reflected the same light, multiplied and decomposed in all colors of the rainbow.

Dancing
With the phrase label or cut, meant to imply a very ceremonious in
high tone, and such, no longer held the whites, or for the dance pieces,
nor the singular dress of men and women.

Because of these should consist of and involved in white satin skirt, blue sash crossed at the
chest and marabou feather on his head. The men, in black cloth coat, vest and tie pique white
linen pants Nanjing short, medium flesh-colored silk and flat shoes with silver buckles, all
as Fashion Carlos III, whose statue, made by Canova, [43] was the end of the Prado, which now
holds the source of India or Havana.

To enter and take part in the festival was not enough special suit of men needed be provided
with ballot, due in the hall where the committee constituted to receive and rooms for women.
Observose this measure strictly to the principle; but as soon as it came time to dance, toast
and pepper, main quartermaster, delegated the task in less scrupulous individuals and straight.
In this neglect was due where, late at night, penetrated some individuals who, although in
ceremonial dress, not present or were craftsmen either ticket.

This number was a black man of medium height, rather thick, round face and full, with large
entrances on both sides of the forehead, who passed it almost forty
years of age, end in a complete bald.

Although dressed as had been arranged, the coat was coming somewhat narrow, the vest he was
quite short, the means were discolored old, had no buckles her shoes,
no shirt was cheap and the neck up too to cover nearly the ears, perhaps
because he was of short neck and Morrudo.

Whether by these faults, or leftovers, that we are not well aware,
black entries became the cynosure of all since he set foot on the
ball.

But he warned him, he was no fool, and of course walking at first as bewildered, dodging the room
where the light was more profuse and brilliant, but at eleven o'clock
at night made by joining the cliques that formed around the pretty
girls, until he dared and invite a court dance a minuet, with both
rhythm and grace that called for it the general attention.

Two or three times the group came dallying or worshiping in Cecilia
Valdés the most beautiful women of that meeting heterogeneous looked
askance at the long while and then walked away with visible signs
of defiance.

In one of these moments, an officer of tailoring Uribe watching him closely, he remained outside
the room, put her hand on his shoulder with some familiarity and
said:

- Listen!

Are you here?

- What, do you offer? he answered, turning and shaking from head to
toe.

- What do these neighborhoods, Chiquete? asked the officer with
more familiarity.

- Please tell me, sir, "replied the entries, angry:
when and where you've missed maloja?

- Man! said the officer quite
mortified, those are big words.

- Older or younger is that bothersome
to use as you

- Do not come trying to be mysterious and very lady
that I know who you are and you know who me.

Get down, man, from the stage.

You can fade the head, and if you fall, das in the kitchen fire.

-
Come on, what you want me now?

- No, I do not nadita of this world.

I noticed you did just the ugly to the prettiest girl dance and this
piqued my curiosity.

- Are you going or something comes to you in
this melting pot?

- Rather more than you you think.

- And you intends
to defend this girl, right?

- I think you have not insulted.

Women are not the king's face to please everyone. In like or dislike no offense.

- Well, then let me soul you still.

- You are an ungrateful, "said the official, serious. Not your fault, but I I care of an individual
less than me, cook y. .. slave. Was filled with anger that the black and raised his hand to
strike a blow to his opponent, but for reasons he knew, did not download the coup. Had entered
the house without a ballot, did not know anyone was an intruder and every scandal that arms
should result in damage. Contented, then, to threaten him and tell him to fix accounts after
the dance ended, turning her back with contempt. Such output at most excited the laughter of the
official tailor, and said a joke:

- Jacket, release this man.

To keep looking at his friend José Dolores Pimienta, told the occurrence
to the black large inflows laughed both the occurrence and did not
address it anymore.

Early on the floor was full, boat by boat, as stated in the familiar phrase. The coup people
of all colors, sexes and conditions that are crowded with both windows wide portal, had looked
so lively and interesting and tumultuous. In the great hall not could not stand it, at least until
they danced, the men nudged each other, and almost completely hid the women sitting around. Cecilia,
Nemesia and password Clara Uribe's wife, occupied a front seat to the street, in the dividing wall
canvas between the door and the dining room, and whenever groups of men allowed who came to greet
her, could hear the exclamations of admiration his pilgrim Beauty
people excited in the portal.

Sometimes, after the weights of the graces of the girl could hear voices of compassion it took her
by a young thoroughbred, it was natural to see her there were shocked and low feelings they
believed he was consenting to rub so closely with people of color. Cecilia, meanwhile, tasted victory
at home more than any woman ever reached in the prime of her youth and beauty. One after another,
many men of a certain semblance filled the dance that night, knowing or not, came to salute
and pay tribute, which they know sit for the black Creoles of Cuba who have received some education
and pride themselves on fine and attentive to ladies. Among these we can cite Brindis, musician,
elegant and well-bred; Tonda protected from Captain to General Vives, black, young, intelligent and
brave as a lion; Vargas and Dodge, both of Matanzas, one barber, carpenter the other, which were
included in the alleged conspiracy of people of color in 1844 and shot in the Paseo de Versailles
in the same city, to José de la Concepción Valdés, alias Plácido, the poet more estrus Cuba
has seen, and had the same disastrous fate of the two preceding, to Thomas Back and Flowers, an
outstanding violinist and composer of remarkable contra, which in that year died on the ladder, he
was subjected to torment his judges to extract a confession of complicity a crime whose existence
has never been tested enough, at the same Francisco de Paula Uribe, skilful tailor that to avoid
the fate of the previous run, killed himself with a Beard knife in the moments that you locked
in one of the dungeons of the Citadel La Cabana, Juan Francisco Manzano, tender poet who had just
been released, thanks the philanthropy of some letters from Havana, José Dolores Pimienta,
tailor and skilled toilet clarinet, as graceful as a small face and
dapper in his person.

With the latter and Cecilia Vargas deigned to dance dance, cutting minuet Brindis, another with
Dodge, chatted amiably with Placido, replied with a bow that made
him funny Tonda, spoke with Vuelta y Flores contra, and held a lot
of talent musician Ulpiano who led the orchestra floor.

Any observer could see that medium, to the kindness turns used by Cecilia with all who approached
him, he had marked difference between blacks and mulattos. With these, for example, two contra
danced with the first ceremonial only minuets. But given wide rein to his innate exclusivity
when presented with the black entries deep and prayed admitted as a partner to dance a minuet. Just
do not bore his refusal to not harsh, dry and gave his reasons for not dance with him, he had
committed the next piece, he was very tired, and so on.

The man was satisfied, before was mortified that is unspeakable and walked away muttering
phrases rude and threatening.

This did not stop much attention Cecilia, but when shortly after walking
with Nemesia Clara countersign the tables around the ambiguous and
stumbled with black entries that seemed lurking lying on the doorpost
of one of the side rooms, he was afraid and squeezing the arm of her
friend and whispered hastily: - There he is!

- Who?

Nemesia asked turning his face.

- Look, said Cecilia. Over here. That.

At this time the man fell off the door and went to play with the beard
on Cecilia shoulder, which without preliminary he said:

- "So I believed
the girl worthy to be his partner tonight?

- What say you?

Cecilia asked more frightened than before.

- I say, "continued the grim black glancing Cecilia, say that the
girl has made me a snub.

- If you think you and I ask a thousand
pardons, because it Be had such intention.

- The girl told me she
was tired and then went to dance with another.

Look no apology the child (added race knowing that Cecilia wanted
to replicate), I understand why what the child has snubbed me.

The girl sees me tight, poorly dressed, with no friends in this select meeting and has figured
I am a nobody, a brat, a ragamuffins.

- You are mistaken

- I'm not mistaken.

I know what I say, as I know who the girl.

- Lord, You take me by
another.

- I know more than you would think the girl.

I've known the girl sucking and crawling. I met your mother know your father as my hands and
I have every reason to know the woman who raised her for over a year in a row.

- Well, I do not know you, or ...

- Neither he nor the child care? I understand. I tell the girl, however, that girls hate me because
they figure that because it has the white skin is white.

The child is not is.

If you can fool others, not me.

- Have I been arrested for insulting you?

- No, miss. I'm not used
to insult people who wear robes.

If, as girls wore tunics, pants takes, believes he would speak well.

It bothers me so much more pride that the child spends with me ...

- We've talked enough, "interrupted Cecilia turned her back.

- As the girl likes, he continued very angry, but let me tell you a little lower cocotte, because
if your father is white, his mother is not whiter than me, and besides,
the girl is cause I see my wife separated for over twelve years.

-
What about me I have to do with it?

- Must have been something, because
my wife has been the true mother of the girl, who raised her as since
birth, unable to raise a child her mother for being crazy ...

- The
fool is you, Cecilia cried aloud.

Clara surrounding Nemesia and then sign her friend and tried to take her to the room. But stopped
to see Tonda, Uribe, the officer of this and at the same José Dolores Pimienta (Under whose
protection was implied Cecilia), who heard the scream and came rushing
to find out what happened.

The last named was the first to ask it.

- Nothing. That dark, "she said with supreme contempt, is determined
to have an affair with me ... as I see women.

- Coward!

Pepper shouted, suddenly become modest lion lamb.

And the stranger pounced to punish him, but he stole the body and
stood on guard.

José Dolores was unarmed and was content to add:

- Who are you?

-
I am who I am, "replied the other with fearlessness.

- What are you
looking here?

- What I want.

- Well now you leave the house or I
miss a kick.

- I see it.

- A dog!

You had to be a slave. Out!

Tonda intervened at that point, Uribe and Officer Taylor, without
whose presence insurance strikes a bloody feud between the gallant
and the unknown musician of great entries.

The officer said he gave the name of Dionisio Gamboa, and having surrounded all gradually were
physically pushing to put right out in the street.