 Was this, as the port that appears to the navigator
After a long journey, was the result of my calculations, the triumph of my ideas, a tributary
of the Rio Securi finally, that I had left near the Trinity Moxos.

In the space of two days continued, but declining, the ridge of these mountains, imprisonment
under a canopy of intertwined branches that form an impenetrable mass veredura the sun and reach
the people of the savages Yuracares, who welcomed me perfectly in their huts, expressed its
determination to cooperate to my projects. I left with them then Before this heat to cool, and
I went into the heart of the world's most beautiful rainforest in search of a tree, which alone
were enough to build a canoe. My savages, who knew one by one all those trees to me straight
away in the thickest of them, whose trunk circumference of twenty feet, maybe he had seen many
centuries. A jump ax blows after their chips, but by evening only, and to pulse of hard work, so
doing falls shattering, tearing down everything that is ahead, and pushing some objects to others,
leading to destruction more than two hundred paces. Redoubled blows of the ax made the forest
ring for seven consecutive days; I went in the meantime the work of the Indians and work alongside
them to encourage by example, until the ruler of the trees found himself transformed that neighborhood
in a very spacious boat. There was smooth after that, through the woods, obstacles who opposed
their march, about a quarter of a league, to launch on the river, what which was held victoriously.
Congratulated me and the success of my wishes, because that complete the mission that I had
my taxes, I was missing something else to do but row towards Moxos.

My promises to three Yuracares determined to follow up Moxos, by making
use of rowers and no provision that some cassava and other roots,
we set off, abandoning forests.

The waters were too low and the river full of jumps: in four days, only could walk three miles
to the confluence of river Icho. Always stuck in the water drag the canoe and nearly barefoot
during the day were devoured by poisonous bites of quejenes, who were displaced, at night, swarms
of mosquitoes bitterest yet. Finally, at the junction where the two rivers together form the
river Securi provided waterway, I was obliged to leave at all inhabited places, and give me almost
miss provisions, to the contingencies of a voyage whose end and I was given obstacles expected,
especially accompanied by inexperienced people, who know not only save balance, tip exposed to at
every step our weak vessel. The abundance reigned since then, thanks to the success of fishing
and hunting, but as he overtook, the forest was becoming more and more deserted, and soon we were
small fish, no salt, all food. Finally, after having seen many significant rivers, all them
strangers, who meet surcábamos, and after three days of grueling voyage, beam continuously
blazing sun, or exposed to rain so abundant in regions hot, appeared again before us the Mamore in all its
grandeur. Then I forgot about the past sufferings. I was in Moxos, white of my labors, and to
the Next morning, after an absence of forty days, I saw the capital of the province where I
scarcely recognized, as was the alteration that the work had caused in my face.

Plotting the level of the latter route gave me way less than the Chapare, and at most, I had discovered
a passage not as risky as the Avocado-Cave. My votes, in this occasion, were also completed,
and I was allowed to offer the government of Bolivia, the delineation of a new avenue for their business
transactions, a present worthy of their benefits, not believing so
exempt from the obligation to preserve my imprescriptible eternal
gratitude.

Finished for my research in the province of Moxos, I went again and returned to climb the Mamore
to its confluence with the river Sara, and then by this until Piray reunion with the river,
which led me, after a troublesome voyage of fifteen days port of the Four-Eyes, situated at
Treit leagues from Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra.

On 17 November 1832, at fifty days of hospital stay in this city, I left it penetrated with
gratitude for the many favors that its inhabitants had me filled. Dirigíme back to the mountains,
and climbing until I went to Samaypata Chuquisaca which was about one hundred and fourteen leagues.
I visited the beautiful pass Grande Valley counties, where finish the last branch of the Eastern
Cordillera, and went then to the Rio Grande, which receives all the waters of the provinces of
Cochabamba, Mizque Arque, Chayanta, and part of the Laguna and Yamparaes in the departments
of Cochabamba, Potosi and Chuquisaca. Crossing the mountains and fertile valleys of the provinces
of Laguna and Yamparaes, and passing successively through the Fish, by Tomina, Tacopaya, Tarabuco
and Yamparaes, I finally to the capital of Bolivia, the former seat of the audiencia of Charcas,
today home of a supreme court and a university. The illustrated city of Chuquisaca or La-Plata,
surrounded mountains and cultivated fields, offers entirely the same temperature of Provence in France,
and could produce the same results.

Leaving the city, crossed the Cachimayo and the Pilcomayo, and soon ascending more more about the mountains
came to Potosi, a city of legendary wealth, the product that Special silver mining, has a part to Spain
this gloss has enjoyed over the past centuries. She admired in her large artificial lakes,
their many mills, the mint, and then climbed on his mouth screening
hill mine of which have left so many thousands of dollars, but it
has improved the condition of the poor Indians, which are essential
for these excruciating workings.

At the summit of this hill, I found eighty yards above the level of Mont Blanc.

After having carefully examined around Potosi, I went to Taropaya, Yocalla to, and to Tolapalca
throat, then went down to the deep valley of Ancacato that flows into the Lake of Pansa, and
continuing through the valley of Condor-Apacheta, I found myself a spacious plains that led
me to Oruro, Potosi second, whose mines, rich also in another time, soon ceased to produce
their treasures. The city, well-decayed this, not now but supplies of tin metal, or some little
gold started, shall we say well, to their neighboring mountains.

I was back on the plain Boliviano, the most populous of those Parages. There is where the cultivation
of potatoes, on the one hand, and the raising of llamas and alpacas other hand, have been the
elements of that great society which is dominated by the Incas, civilized Rangers to all peoples.
In a voyage I made to the province of Carangas, saw all parties, through parallel hills, abundant
in copper mines, the remnants of older population: never had I found so many pucaras (ancient
fortresses), and many groups of graves (chulpas) still standing.

I noticed especially the Cruise immediate near Totora, and Jerusalem artichoke-chulpas (the hundred
graves) near Huaillamarca.

Back to Oruro, I continued my exploration of the plain, and headed by Caracollo, Sicasica and
Calamarca to La Paz, where I went to visit Tiaguanaco, as famous for its ruins. There I saw
huge buildings that testify to a civilization perhaps more advanced than the Incas, and certainly
should be of above. These monuments are remarkable, especially by the enormity of the carved
stones that make up his factory.

Amid of a vast plain where a mound rises to more than forty yards, they are surrounded by colossal
pilasters, the remains of some temples square looking towards the east, which have as one hundred
and eighty yards in front of each side, and whose frames are covered with flat reliefs representing
the sun, and the condor His messenger, it is also noticed there are still some fragments of
giant statues. All these monuments, placed very close to the shores of famous Lake Chucuito,
home of Manco Capac, are quite different of which are noted on the islands of Titicaca and
Coati, where the latter were built by the Incas, after which they came to be owned by the
conquest of countries which inhabited the Aymara nation, the first seed of the civilization
of the Andes.

Having traveled to test the contours of the huge lake of Chucuito, which is located at the height
of four thousand yards above the ocean, extends to over thirty-three leagues Geographical long
over fifteen to twenty wide, presenting the appearance of a small sea, I passed for the last
time the western mountains, heading to the port of Arica.

More than three years since I had used in the exploration of the Republic of Bolivia, and I
Apart from this rich and beautiful part of the Americas, taking with me, not only material huge
and all genres to make it known under its various aspects, but also the most heartfelt gratitude
towards his government and to its inhabitants, who had always filled me civilians, and given
me, along with entertainment, fine estimation tests.

After having visited the ports of Islay and Callao (Peru), I finally embarked Valparaiso to go
to France, accompanied by six young Bolivians, named for their government to study metallurgy in
Europe. We set sail in the early days October 1833 to early 1834
and turned to see my homeland after an absence of eight years [1].

I went immediately to Paris, where I hastened to submit to the opinion of the Institute an album
more than five hundred illuminated plates, which I had drawn in those places, copying of the
same nature, large number of manuscripts collections and vast geological,
zoological and botanical.

It appointed a commission composed of Messrs. de Blainville, Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, Adolphe
Brongniart, Savary and Cordier, and April 21, 1834 showed that, on those materials, a relationship
that will copy here a few passages.

Rapporteurs .-- ZOOLOGY, SS. Blainville's and Geoffroy.

"For the details we have just entered, details that could have double
and triple, being so abundant materials at our disposal, the Academy
will have seen no zoological observations doubt that M. de Orbigny,
and often written in part and accompanied by illuminated figures,
copied from the living and animal collections in support, must fill
many gaps that were in our collection, which will advance significantly
zoology from many points of South America, very little known to the
present, like Patagonia, the provinces of Paraguay and Peru high.

"We recognize that Mr. de Orbigny has been a complete success in the limited spaces of his mission,
in a manner so important to our collections as science itself. "

BOTANY .-- Rapporteur, Mr. Adolphe Brongniart.

"Finally, the third region that he has explored with special care, covers all the Republic of
Bolivia and some parts of Peru, she embraces between grades 13 and
22 south latitude, an extension greater than the whole of France,
and has the most varied heights, from sea level to the west and the
flood plains of the province of Moxos east to the perpetual snow-covered
peaks of the highest part of the Andes.

"Three years have passed in this interesting region, which has traveled everywhere. In through
research of all kinds, to which this laborious traveler had been delivered, yet been able to find
enough time to collect and prepare more than a thousand carefully six hundred species of plants,
many of which will be of great interest to science.

"This immense mountain range that borders the great Pacific Ocean, from Cape Horn to the Isthmus of
Panama, is far from having been studied in all its extension with respect to their natural productions,
Mutis, Ruiz and Pavon, Dombey, Haenke, and more recently Messrs. de Humboldt and Bonpland
have explored its northern part, from Panama to Lima, ie up to 12
degrees south latitude.

Moreover, Ruiz and former Dombey, and modern times the unfortunate Bertero, many English and German
botanists, and our fellow lords Urville, Lesson, Gaudichaud and Gay had carefully studied
Plant wealth of Chile from 30 to 38 degrees latitude south, but all the space between 12 and 30
degrees south latitude, had not been visited by any known botanical. It is here but where are
the heights highest of the Andes, is it where the vast plains surrounding the limit of perpetual
snow, spread over a large surface. It is in this region, almost unknown to the naturalists, that
M. de Orbigny visited a very large part, between 12 and 22 degrees latitude. But he has not
been limited to travel only that range of mountains as remarkable for their crop production,
has also studied vegetation in the lowlands and blistering extending to the borders of Brazil;
and if your research on other branches of natural history have not allowed, as we he says, picking
up all the many plants found in such spot, but one thousand six hundred different species, collected
from a very smart sites they could have higher interest to plant geography, testify to the same
time its active zeal for all science items, and the wisdom that guided him in those that he
had not made a special study.

"Many plants collected, either in the central provinces or on the ridges, are obviously new, and
although it would be necessary to enter into a more scrupulous than ours to fix The exact number
can be counted, without much risk of deception, more than three hundred or four completely unknown
species, which has included in this part of his journey; and all, new or already known, should
be of great interest to plant geography, providing a missing link to unite with the vegetation
of Chile to Peru and Colombia.