 Propúsose, as always, be spiritual, and said:

- Did you see what ventrisca run?

The girl was silent.

- Nothing matters now - continued - because they are all collected fruits, but if there fallen
before, not even leave us a chestnut or a grain of corn, heh, heh!

He felt happy Garnet issue this idea, judging by the expression of
joy that shone in his eyes.

- But here it's cold, eh?

... I have none, ha, ha! ... On the contrary, I feel the heat ... Is it because your eyes are
two calofer ... caroli ...

Yet again rushed the floor radiators without being able to top the company. To cover his impotence
feigned a fit of coughing. His face became purple interesting resemblance with that of a hanged
man.

The beauty, who was staring into the void, turned his head to his devotee, he looked for a moment
with an expression vague, distracted, as if he saw it.

Rose suddenly and walked away without saying a word to sit in front. The Indian kept the same smile stereotyped
in the face, the petrified face of a satyr.

But look back to the group I had just left, seeing a lot of laughing eyes fixed on him, was
suddenly serious and sulky.

- Which party has the Maroon among the pretty girls! - Paco Gomez
said it already .-- I said the other day.

"You no need of having to go to America rich women the world. You
have the fortune in the face.

"

- Look, condecito, now you must go and sit by his side.

She will not get up then - said Manuel Antonio.

- Yes, yes, you must go, Luis - Maria Josefa supported .-- We will see a curious thing, to decide
whether or not in love with you. Right, Amalia, who should go?

- Yes, I think you should sit by his side - said the lady.

His voice went off and trembling.

- Do you? - Asked the count, looking at her.

- Yes, you go - the lady replied with perfect composure and, avoiding his gaze.

- As you allow me to disobey. I do not want to expose myself to a snub.

- Never mind the slights to a lover! ... Because you, more to say, is in love Fernanda ... He
knows the league.

- The league will be, because, which is about a jot - Manuel Antonio said.

And Mary and Joseph and Emily Paco Mateo Gomez confirmed the species with laughter.

Amalia said. Indeed, Luis hid it well, but as for greater efforts to so, there is always a loose
end, a crack through which light comes, she had guessed long ago that the Count, in the depths of
his heart, kept fond memories Fernanda.

- Address you: a few days ago he came to say Moro had two false teeth. You can not imagine how this
man was ... He almost hits ...

- Not really, not so much - said the count, smiling ashamed .-- I expressed myself with some vividness
it always annoyed me injustice.

- Oh! The exaltation in these cases are suspect.

When you feel an interest in a person with less heat defends ... Caramba! I never saw him so
angry!

You can say this girl has a brave champion willing to break lances
for it.

The lady rushed the joke. Not get enough of pressing the count, as if to let convicted Fernanda
your love. Despite the benevolent smile animated her face, there were certain odd inflection
that no more than a single person could see at that time.

But the quadrille was over, and the group with multiple partners increased significantly they
were relatives. They went some others came, after all, the lady of the house found surrounded
by new people. Bailose another waltz and a quadrille. The twelve sounded at last the great clock
of the cathedral.

And young people are determined not to disband, in spite of the traditional
custom of the house, Manin, by order of Peter, appeared at the door
living, embracing the mess of the ladies' coats.

This was the farewell to the Mr. Quinones was at their gatherings. It was not very polite, but
no one was angry. On the contrary, is always received with jubilation, as a funny joke.

After everyone went to shake hands, the Grandee, Formosa middle of a group room. Amalia, in
the middle of it, kissing goodbye to her friends dearly. She was pale and his eyes feverish looks uncertain
goodbye.

To shake hands with the Count turned his head away, feigning distraction shook vigorously three
or four times to pep talks. Well I needed the poor gentleman.

I was so haggard and trembling that Amalia thought he would fall
unconscious.

In a tightly-knit gatherings came out into the hallways and down the
grand staircase of stone dirty and wet.

A servant opened the front door.

- Ay! Who will be left here this basket? - Emilita said Matthew, who
ran the first with the obstruction.

- A basket? - Asked several ladies
approaching him.

- Some poor who walk around asleep - said the servant,
who had not yet closed the door.

- You do not see anybody - said
Manuel Antonio, which had registered the site quickly.

The curiosity excited soon to a lady to lift the cloth that covered the basket. Immediately
the cry uttered familiar, you released so many centuries ago and
the daughter Pharaoh saw floating on the river's famous Moses basket.

-
A child!

Moment of amazement and curiosity in the circles.

All rush, everyone wants look at the same time the foundling.

For a moment no doubt that the child was there intentionally exposed.

Paco Gomez picked up the basket, and it was completely uncovered Showcasing his friends sleeping
infant.

Burst a storm of cheers.

- Angelito! - Who could have been the infamous Poor ?...--¡ of my
soul - What hearts hyena My God - look how beautiful it is - Will
there have long been exposed? - We'll be numb the creature .-- Paco,
you let me touch it.

The basket was shooting from hand to hand.

The ladies, much interested, quivering with emotion, depositing tender
kisses on the cheeks of the newborn, so that instantly got wake.

From that pile of pink flesh out a low moan that vibrated with pity at all hearts. Some women shed
tears.

- Subámoslo, for now, to warm up a bit.

- Yes, yes, subámoslo!

And again the resonant group launched into the courtyard and the staircase
of the mansion Quiñones bearing in triumph the mysterious basket.

Amalia middle of the room was still and pale when the doors opened again. D. Peter had been
transferred to her bedroom and by Manin and another servant. This new and sudden eruption
appeared to surprise a lot to the lady of the house.

- What happens?

What is this? - Said in an agitated voice.

- A child! A boy! - Shouted several at a time.

- Just found on the site - said Manuel Antonio, which had already taken the basket and presented
it.

- Who has left there?

- Do not know ... It is a foundling. Look, by God, how beautiful, is Amalia!

The lady looked at him a moment and said with marked coldness:

- Perhaps some poor man will have left to pick it up right away.

-
No, no, we recorded the portal.

The street is deserted ...

The creature of all this began to scream, shaking his fists clenched
uncertain movement, like two rosebuds.

The compassion of the women burst into exclamations again passionate. They all wanted to kiss and
warm against her breast.

Finally, Maria Josefa achieved seize him, pulled him out of the basket and wrapping it with
cloth that had been covered, what tenderly stroked. A paper had fallen from the clothes of
the creature to remove and had fallen to the ground.

Manuel Antonio picked it up.

- You see, Amalia? Here is the mother of the lamb.

The paper said in big characters, drawn apparently by rough hand:
"The unfortunate mother of this child entrusted to the charity of
Mr. Quinones.

It is not baptized. "

- It's a girl! - Cried some ladies at a time.

And the tone in which they squandered these words was not difficult
to detect some disappointment.

They had become accustomed to the idea that man was.

- What mystery is this? - Asked Manuel Antonio, while a curious smirk wandered down her face.

-
Mystery?

None - Amalia said with some displeasure .-- What is clear is poor
you want to keep it to your daughter.

- However, here there is a
something strange.

I bet they are wealthy people the parents of this girl - said the
fairy.

- Goodbye!

And we are going to Manuel Antonio serial! - The lady said with a nervous laugh .-- The wealthy
people do not leave their children involved in these rags.

In fact, she had been covered with miserable rags and a tattered, dirty blanket.

- Slowly, Amalia, slowly - Saleta said his voice clear, calm .-- I have collected in the doorway
of my house many years ago, I found myself in Madrid, a child who had been involved in very
rough diapers. After some time we found out he was the son of a very high person I can not
name.

All eyes turned in surprise to the judge Galician.

- A very high person, that's - continued after a pause, with the same
composure .-- Well impertinent easy it was, by the way, guess posting
a little attention on the features of his face, Bourbon entirely.

The amazement of the bystanders was profound. They looked at each other with a smile mocking as
usual, Saleta seemed not to notice.

- Atiza! - Valero said .-- Open uzté an umbrella, D. Zante!

- The child died two months - continued unperturbed Saleta .-- Surely when we took him to the
cemetery the procession joined a car that no one knew to whom it belonged. I knew him because
he had seen in the royal stables, but I kept quiet.

- It ezcampa! - Valero murmured.

- Well, Saleta, and you tell us that day. At night these things espeluznan - said the Sierra fag winking
at the others .-- The thing to think now, Amalia, is to be done with this child.

The lady shrugged with indifference.

- Phs ... I do not know ... We will leave here tonight. Tomorrow we will look for a nurse who
wants to have it at home ... because it, indeed, is a disorder.

- If you do not want to have it at home, I'll be glad of it, Amalia - said Maria Josefa, who
was walking a little way and lulling the child to silence.

- I have not said he wanted - he said the lady hastily .-- will pick up that girl, because
I have obligation than anyone, because trust me ... But as you understand, to make I need
to count on my husband.

The gatherings adopted these words in a whisper.

Manin appeared just asking from D. Peter what the noise meant. It was explained. Mr. Quinones
was moved back into his chair with wheels to room, saw the girl and very interested by it. Immediately
stated that it would of his house, ordering a servant to the dawn
was in search of mother.

As soon as the child was brought milk and tea in a bottle teat, it is wrapped with more and
better clothes. Loving the circles witnessed with interest these operations. The women uttered
cries of enthusiasm, they were razed to tears to see the eagerness Mamosa with the girl sucking
the nipple of the bottle. So I got fed up, took leave everyone Again, not without deposit before
each a kiss on the cheeks of the poor little foundling.

The Count de Onís lips had realized all this time. Was withdrawn in third or fourth row, with eyes
of shock following the care lavished on the creature. And slyly tried to leave without further
farewell, but Amalia stopped him with boasts of daring that left him stunned.

- What is it, count, does not want you to kiss my ward?

- Yo! ... Yes, ma'am ... Of course.

And pale and trembling, approached and placed his lips on the front of the creature, while
the lady looked at him with provocative and triumphant smile.

III

Appointment.

This
was the third night the Count de Onís could hardly close my eyes.
Nothing more natural in the previous two were agitated, feverish,
but now, why? Everything was determined as wanted. The company had
carried out with happiness. Does not diminish over to sleep peacefully
on his victory. However, it was not. Despite its robust figure and
graceful, the count had a nervous system too impressionable. The lightest
emotion disturbed his spirit was disturbed to a degree beyond words.
Such exquisite sensitivity I came by inheritance and by education.
His father, Colonel House, was a man focused, sensitive, delicate
susceptibility that made him a martyr in the past years of his life.
Everyone Lancia recalled in an interesting and moving episode closed
that chivalrous life.

The colonel commanding the defense forces of
a plaza in Peru when the insurrection the American colonies. The place
was taken by the insurgents of an insidiously and surprise. An evil
colonel complained to the Madrid government as guilty of treason,
asserting that it was in collusion and bribed by the enemy. Too precipitation
without impartial consideration of the facts and without regard to
the brilliant record of Comte de Onis, the king was deprived of his
job in the army and all the crosses and decorations owned. Under the
weight of this horrible injustice, military honor was stunned. His
companions pulled the gun at the time of threat to his life. Accompanied
by his faithful assistant and a cousin traveled from Madrid, where
he had come to defend themselves, Lancia, where he waited his wife
and young son. Family life was a sedative for the terrible open sore
in the heart of the soldier. But that brave, so often had defied death,
had not the courage to endure the stares and curiosity of his neighbors.
Instead of rebelling against the injustice he had done, instead of
trying to convince his countrymen of his innocence, which would have
cost not much work, because everyone felt his character and know their
value, full of shame, as if it were really criminal, fled the eyes
of the people, retreated to his house, and just walking in the garden
behind it extended, high-fenced wall and damaged.

The palace of the
Counts de Onís deserves special mention in this story. It was a building
very old, the oldest in the city together with some remains of the
original basilica were still standing. He had not saved anything from
the horrific fire in the century XIV destroyed the population. Was
their most fortress mansion. Few narrow windows cut by stone columns,
distributed haphazardly in the front, a smooth wall of stone, blackened
by the years, some square holes near the ceiling, by way of loopholes
and a large semicircular door reinforced with large steel nails. The
inside was huge and had more joy. The yard wide, wider than the street.
By rear of the midday sun bathed the windows. The trees in the garden
put my branches for them, serving fresh shade to temper its rays.
The whole of this ancient mystery mansion offering unique charm and
fitted for lacienses imagination, especially for children, only people
who remain, in our prosaic age, fantasy awake. Its facade, if such
name can be given to that smooth wall with small holes lying bulk,
overlooking the street of Mercy, one of the most central of the city.
One of the windows, perhaps the widest, Locksmith Street barreled,
and she looked the cathedral in the distance.

Here is buried or imprisoned
former Colonel House, were sufficient without the prayers of his wife
and the few relatives who frequented his deal to make him desist from
that decision. His idleness was of value to the house. He arranged
the garden, put some viewpoints in the rear, furnished several rooms,
paved patio, etc.. The dark old house, without losing its ancient
and mysterious aspect, the inside was transformed into a pleasant
home. But military dishonor consumed, dried in it like a tree without
light and water. A deep melancholy undermined his body, he wrinkled
skin, bleached her hair, weakened his legs and put his hands trembling.
At fifty-eight years old accounted be seventy. Inside the house is
not felt. Walked through the corridors like a ghost. Day was spent
and no one will hear the voice metal. But it showed grim with anyone.
A sweet, sad smile on his lips constantly wandering. Did not seek
the caresses of her son, but when I stumbled through the halls casually
held his head lovingly kissed it, murmuring some tender words in his
ear and suddenly and abruptly moved away, sometimes with tears in
his eyes. I thought it was a great misfortune for that little boy,
blond and beautiful as a cherub being born son of a disgraced father.
The unhappy he apologized, his eyes, of having fathered.

By the year
1829, four after arriving in America, the colonel was a real spectrum