 This was granted, and hastily gathering a large squad
of soldiers, left the capital decided to die on the claim or bring the Princess's letter Khan
of Tartary and the son of the Khan, alive or dead.

After the departure of General, Princess saw fit to inform the Fortunate King of what had happened.
The King was beside himself. He said the history of bird Green was a ridiculous dream of his daughter
and the washerwoman, and complained that her daughter founded in a dream, sent so many murderers
against an illustrious Prince, missing laws hospitality, the law
of nations and all the moral precepts.

- Oh daughter! - Cried - you
have taken a clear bloody smear on my behalf, if not remedied.

The Princess also grieved and regretted what he had done. Despite his vehement love the Prince of
China, and preferred to leave forever charmed by their love shed a single drop of blood.

So he sent dispatches to the general to not engage a battle, but to no avail. The general had gone
so fast that there was no way to reach you. Then had not telegraph and offices could not be delivered.
When they reached the post where he was the general, they saw all the soldiers fled to the King
and followed suit. The forty of the guard Tartar, who were so many geniuses, ran in pursuit
transformed into hideous monsters, who threw fire from his mouth.

Only the general, whose bravery, coolness and skill in arms bordered on the superhuman, remained
undaunted in the midst of terror sick excusable. The general went to the Prince, the only
enemy who could deal with fantasy, and began to quarrel with him more brave and extraordinary
fight. But guns were delighted Tartar Prince, and general could not hurt. Knowing then that
it was impossible to kill him if he did not use a stratagem, moved a long way from his opponent,
broke a long fast and strong silk sash which encircled the waist, made her without being noticed,
a loop elusive and stirring on the Prince with unprecedented speed, threw the noose around his neck,
and continued with his horse at full speed, knocking the Prince and dragging in the race.

Thus general drowned Tartar Prince. As soon died, disappeared geniuses, and the soldiers of King
Fortunate rallied and gathered to his boss. This waited with them the messengers who brought
the letter from the Khan of Tartary, and did not wait long.

On the evening of that day went back into the general at the palace of King Fortunate the letter
from the Khan of Tartary hands.

Using a gentle and respectful greeting, handed to the princess.

It broke the seal and began to read, but to no avail: he did not understand a word. Fortunate
King same thing happened.

They called all employees in the interpretation of tongues, not also figured that writing.
Individuals came twelve royal academies and then were no more working.

The seven wise, so deep in linguistics, which had just come without
the phoenix, and they were therefore condemned to die, also attended,
but, although they were promised the sorry if you read this letter,
failed to read, nor could tell what language was written.

The Fortunate King was thought then the most unfortunate of all kings
have complained been complicit in a crime in vain, and feared the
vengeance of the powerful Khan of Tartary.

That night eyes could not sleep late.

Her pain was, however, much more desperate, when waking up the next day early morning knew that
the Princess had disappeared, leaving written the following words:

"Father, nor do I seek, or pretend to find out where I go, if you
want me dead.

Suffice know that I'm alive and in good health, but not see me again until you have decoded
Kan mysterious letter and disenchanted my dear Prince. Goodbye. "

VII.

Venturosa Princess had gone with her two friends on foot and on a pilgrimage, to visit a saint
hermit who lived in the wilds and rough mountains towering to a short
distance resembled the capital.

Although the Princess and her friends had wanted to go to the Shrine Knights, had not been possible.
The road was more suited to goats, camels, elephants, horses, mules
and donkeys, which, with forgiveness is that, were the beasts that
are used to ride in that kingdom.

For this and devotion was the princess and without any entourage chirped his two confidants.

The hermit who came to visit was a very penitent man was in the odor of sanctity. The mob also
intended that the hermit was immortal, and was not without reasonable grounds for this claim.
In all the country had no memory of the hermit when it was established in the recesses of
those mountains, which rarely showed himself to human eyes.

The Princess and her friends, attracted by the fame of his virtue
and his science I have been looking seven days for those byways and
byways.

During the day they walked in search between brambles and weeds. At night took shelter in the hollows
of the rocks. Nobody had to guide them and craggy as the site or any of the popular Cabrerizos, for
the inspired fear the curse of the hermit, ready to throw it to who
invaded his domain temporary, or who gets disturbed in his prayers.

It is understood that this hermit, as cursing, a pagan. Despite the natural goodness of his soul,
his religion required him grim and terrible to curse and throw anathema.

But the three friends, imagining, for inspiration, you could read only the hermit the letter,
decided to face his curses and sought him, as aforesaid, for space seven days.

On the night of the seventh and three pilgrims came to the shelter
in a cave to rest, when they discovered the hermit himself, praying
in the background.

A lamp lit with flickering light and that mysterious melancholy retreat.

The three shook to be cursed, and almost repented of having gone there. But the hermit, whose
beard was whiter than snow, which was more wrinkled skin that passes, and whose body was like
a consumptive skeleton, threw over them a glare with eyes, but deep, gleaming like two acuas,
and said in a firm voice, cheerful and gentle:

- Thank goodness you're finally here. Hundred years that you expect. Wished for death, I could not
die until you fulfill a duty that has placed me king of the genii. I am the only scholar who
still speaks and understands spoken language rich in Babel before the confusion. Every word of
this language is an effective spell power and moves to the powers of hell to serve who would
pronounce. The words of this language have virtue of binding and loosing all ties and uniting
and governing laws of natural things. Kabbalah is only an imitation of the language groserísimo
incommunicable and fruitful.

Dialects imperfectísimos very poor and it is the most beautiful and complete language of the
day. Science now, lying and quackery, science compared to that language had itself. Each name
of the language contained in his lyrics the essence of the thing named and its hidden qualities.
All things, at being called by his real name, obey who calls them. Such was the power of the
human race when he had this language, which sought climb the sky, and would have undoubtedly achieved,
if the sky had not provided that the primitive language is forgotten.

Only three well-intentioned scholars, of whom two have died, kept in memory that language. He
also kept, by special privilege of the devils, and Nimrod descendants. The last of them died,
a week has, by order you, O Princess Adventurous! and no longer left in the world but one person
who can descifrarte's letter Khan of Tartary. That person is me, and to make that service, the
King of the Jinn has retained my life ever.

- Well here's the letter, oh venerable and profound wisdom! said the
princess, putting hands of the mysterious hermit writing.

- At the
point I descifrártela, said the hermit, and put on his glasses, and
approached to the reading lamp.

You have two hours he read aloud in the language of the letter was
written.

Every word he uttered, the universe was moved, the stars were covered with mortal paleness,
trembling moon in the sky, and shakes its image among the Ocean waves and the Princess and her
friends had to close my eyes and cover their ears not see the ghosts that were shown, and
not hear the mighty voices, terrible or mourners, who started from the bowels of the troubled
nature.

Finished reading, the hermit took off his glasses and said in a calm voice:

- It is not fair, nor appropriate, nor possible Venturosa Princess oh! you know all that this abominable
letter is enclosed. It is not fair or appropriate, because it is frightful and possessed mysteries.
It is not possible, because in many human languages ??spoken in the
day are those ineffable mysteries, unspeakable and even inexplicable.

The human race by Through its incomplete and sickly get to know why, when passing thousands
of years, some accidents of things, but always ignore the substance that I know, who knows
the Khan of Tartary and have known scholars who have drawn early
to its elocubraciones, of the most perfect language and non-transferable
and for our sins.

- Well, we're fresh lavanderilla said, if after
what we went to meet you, and since you're the only one who can translate
this tangled letter, go out now that do not want translation.

- Neither
I nor should I, "replied the ancient and secular hermit but I will
tell you what the letter contains interesting to you, and I'll tell
you in very briefly, without stopping in drawings, because the moments
of my life and my death are counted is approaching.

The Prince of China is for its virtues, talent and beauty, the favorite of the king of genius, which
has saved thousands of times from the snares that the Khan of Tartary placed against his life.
Displaying the Khan that he could not kill him, determined to make use of a charm to keep him away from
its subjects and rule in his place in the celestial empire. Well he wanted the Kan charm that
was indestructible and eternal, but could not achieve despite their wonderful knowledge in
magic.

The king of the jinn were opposed to his evil desire, and although he could not completely
ineffective to his enchantments and spells, strip them of much learned of his malice.

The Prince, but turned into a bird, was given power to recover their evening true figure. Prince
also had a palace, where live and be treated with the utmost courtesy, honor and gift due to its August
class.

It was agreed, finally, disappointment, if the following conditions are met, that the Khan, so by
the low opinion they have of women as perverted and vicious as what is the human race in general,
judged impossible to comply.

It was the first condition, and carried out that a woman of twenty years, quiet, spirited and
passionate and lower class people saw the three young men happy,
they are the most beautiful there in the world, out of the bathroom
naked, and that cleanliness and chastity of his soul were such that
they were troubled and staining with the slightest stimulation of
lightness.

This test had to be done in the spring equinox, when all nature excites love. The women had
to feel for the beauty and admire deeply, but in a spiritual and holy.

It was the second condition, and also fulfilled, that the Prince could not show only three moments,
and this in the form of green bird, inspire a love so passionate
and chaste, the Invincible, a princess in her class.

The third condition, which now is running to fulfill, was to seize the Princess of this letter,
and I would interpret it.

The fourth and final condition, compliance with which to intervene have three daughters you hear
me, is as follows. I only have two minutes to live, but before dying I will put in the palace
of Prince Cup next topaz. There will be birds and will be diving and processed into very beautiful
young men. Three you'll see, but you have to maintain, seeing, all your thoughts chastity and virginity
all your souls, loving, however, each one of the three, with a holy love and innocent. The Princess
and the Prince loves China and lavanderilla squire, and both have
shown the innocence of his love, now missing that favorite girl fall
in love with the Princess Secretary by the same style.

    When the three young men happy
    to go to the dining room, you will continue unseen, and will remain
there until the Prince asked the box of entertainment and say, kissing
the cordoncito:

Oh, my lady cordoncito!

Who saw her now!

The Princess, then, and you marry the princess, I shew to the point, and each will a tender kiss
on the cheek left the object of his love. The spell was broken in the act, the Khan of Tartary
die suddenly, and the Prince of China, not only possess the Celestial
Empire, but also inherits all khanates, kingdoms and provinces, which
own right has that charming devil.

Hermit just finished saying these words, grimaced very rare, opened his mouth, stretched his
legs and fell dead.

The Princess and her friends suddenly found themselves behind a mass of verdure, beside Topaz
Cup.

Everything is served as the hermit had said.

The three were in love, all three were chaste or innocent. Even at the point committed to give the gift
and kiss tight felt more than a profound shock to all mysticism and pure.

So I immediately became disenchanted the three youths. China and Tartary were spoken under
the sway of the Prince. The Princess and her friends are still married were more so cute with those
men. The Fortunate King abdicated, and went to live in the court
of his son, who was in Beijing.

The general killed the Tartar Prince got all the decorations China,
the first Mandarin title and a pension of thousands upon thousands
for him and his heirs.

There is, finally, that the Princess Venturosa and Emperor of China and lived longer and happy years,
and had half a dozen kids each more beautiful. The lavanderilla and the Maiden, with their husbands,
followed always enjoying the favor of their Majesties, and being
the major lords over all that land.

PARSONDES

Although love and respect for virtue, do not believe it's so blatant
and so skittish as that of some censors of the day.

If we had to write like them, if we taking their stiffness valid
and sincere, and if we had to adjust to it, our writings, maybe not
the traffic agonies of death, Venegas, nor the cries of hell, Boneta
father would be edifying models to imitate.

Unfortunately, the rigidity is only apparent. The stiffness has no other result than to exasperate
spirits, making them doubt and sneer, if only in dreams, self-righteous
hypocrisy now used.

See, if not, sleep has been a friend of ours, and we moved here full when not for recreation, for
the instruction of the readers.
Our friend dreamed as follows:

- More than 2600 years ago, I was
in Susa a satrap beloved of the great King Art and more rigid, severe,
and morale of all the princes. The holy man had been my Parsondes
teacher, and I had communicated all the communicable of science and
virtue of the first Zoroaster.

Seven years ago because Parsondes,
after illuminating the world with their doctrine, and to form several
disciples worthy of him, had disappeared, and that you return to see
it, either living or dead. Gave good believers, then, for sure Parsondes
had risen to the region uncreated light near Ahura-Mazda, which shone
almost as much as Amschaspandes and Izeds, where eclipsed, at its
own FERU with beatific glow