 

Arched eyebrows, look between apathetic and curious, ambiguous answer in dialect:

- The little run of a dog ....

We are fresh, he thought the traveler, if you could not quite figure out what a dog on a walk
career suspected that should be enough for a horse. Finally, in arriving at the cruise would
Pazos de Ulloa ..... Everything is back to find the shortcut, right ..... Or signs. The sidewalk
widening, by land is mountainous and dotted with patches of oak and the occasional brown still
laden with fruit: a left and right, briar thickets grew scattered and obscure. Indefinable malaise
experienced rider, excusable in whom, born and raised in a quiet, sleepy town, is first compared
to face with the harsh and majestic solitude of nature, and recalls
stories of travelers stolen, people killed in desert places.

- Which
country of wolves! - Said to himself, gloomily impressed.

Alegrósele the soul with the view shortcut, right to be discerned, narrow slope between a double
fence of stone, limit of two mountains. Down relying on the morning of jaco to prevent tripping,
when he saw almost within reach of his hand something that made him shudder: a wooden cross,
painted black with white fillets, medium and over the seawall fall that sustained it. The priest
knew that these crosses mark the spot where a man died violent death, and, crossing himself,
prayed an Our Father, while the horse, no doubt sniffing the trail of a fox, shaking slightly steep
ears, and adopted a trot fearful that soon led him to a crossroads. Among the framework that
the branches were a huge brown, there stood the cruise.

Tosco, common stone, wrought so bad at first glance seemed Romanesque monument by but in reality
was only a century date, still the work of a stonemason with pushes sculptor, the cruise, in that
place and such time and under the natural canopy of the magnificent tree was poetic and beautiful.
The rider, subdued and full of devotion, gave discovered: "Adorámoste, Christ, and bless you because
by your Holy Cross you have redeemed the world", and incidentally
that said, his eyes looking far away the Pazos de Ulloa, which should
be one large building rectangular, with towers, back in the valley