 They were trembling from the blows they
had sustained and they were teetering about in dismay at the loudness of it all. The animals scurried
about in a mass of confusion prodded by canes. A mere horse, he was, but he was aiming to bite the monster
headed his way. His teeth and torn flaps of hairy skin were clinging to his body, probably due
to his own will.

He had had to withstand the horrific attack of the bull and had managed to bite into his tender
neck with a furious clench. All of the horses were traumatized and
their neighing showed this.

They
smelt of blood and feces and suffered as well with fumes of sickly
gas from under their tails.

Their blood was sprewn between the stones and it was turning black as it dried.

This commotion endured until the crowd arrived. You could not really see them in the midst of it
all, you could only hear them.

They were shouting exclamations of concern such as, "Ay, ay!" This in turn created quite a loud
decible of noise, considering that there were thousands of onlookers. The banderillero stuck closely
by the bull before he turned to the beast amid an uproar of applause and proceeded to hail two flags
into the air.

At this the trumpets sounded to announce the kill only to find the crowd applauding again.

Carmen wanted to go. Holy Mother Mary! Why was he even here?

That was her husband with the bull and there she was only a few steps from him but still could
not be free of the torment that she felt. She did not like to see the beasts tormented, she did
not like to see the blood running through the courtyard. She also knew that this occasion needed
a persuasive feminine air to help in repelling the foul odors of
the carnage, as she held her handkerchief to her own nose.

She had never seen the bulls for a long time, she had only heard stories of these bullfights.
The stories portrayed a beauty of a lavish arena, a sunny day, irridescent
silk and embroidery which did not tell the tale of the heinous rituals
of preparation and revolting suffering of weaker animals.

To think that the banderillero could acquire his fortune at the expense
of these shows was quite honestly shocking and repulsive.

As she sat and watched the crowd rang out with some more loud applause.
There were orders being made in commanding voices. There was already
one bull dead and the doors were still open at the bottom of the passage.

The
fences around the stables connected around the outer edge of the ring
and seemed to intensify the noises of the crowd and the echoes of
the music that played in the background