 In balancing obligations
on it, had known the value of time.

- Today there is no class - crying at the door.

And throwing his hat on a couch, began a dance step, getting away with child shrinks the arms
of her lover.

A few minutes later regained his composure, the gesture was often serious in it from the beginning of hostilities.
He spoke of his mother, always sad, trying to hide their grief and animated by the hope of
a letter from the child, spoke of the war, commenting recent actions under the rhetorical optimism
of the official parties. Thoroughly described the first flag taken from the enemy, like a
suit of unprecedented elegance. She had seen in a window of the Ministry of War. Is softened
by repeating stories of Belgian fugitives arrived at his hospital.

They were the only patients who had been attend so far. Paris did not get injured even war by the government
order sent from the front to the hospitals in the South.

No longer opposed by the resistance of the first day to the wishes of July. Your nurse learning
gave it a certain passivity.

Seemed to despise the attractions of the area, stripping them of the spiritual significance attributed
to them until recently. It gave no resistance without desire, with a tolerant smile, happy to
be able to give a bit of happiness, which she did not participate. His attention was focused
on other concerns.

One afternoon, being in the bedroom of the study, felt the need to communicate some news that from
the previous day filled his mind. He jumped out of bed, looking through his clothes littering
the handbag, which contained a letter. I wanted to read it again, report to someone's content
with dragging irresistible impulse to confession.

It was a letter his brother had sent from the Vosges.

She spoke at Laurier rather than himself. Belonged to a different drummer, but included in the same
division and had taken part in similar battles. The officer looked up to his old brother. Who a hero
would have guessed that engineer future peaceful and quiet! ... And But it was a true hero.
Proclaimed him the brother of Margaret, and with it all officers who had seen him do his duty
quietly, braving death with as coolly as if he were in his factory, near Paris.

Risky as requested by the observer, sliding as close as possible to the enemy to monitor the accuracy
of artillery fire, grinding your telephone instructions. A German shell had demolished the house whose
roof was hidden. Laurier, to emerge unscathed from the rubble, reset your phone and went quietly
to continue the same work in the branches of a nearby grove.

Its battery was discovered in an unfavorable match enemy planes had received the concentrated fire
of the artillery in front.

In a few minutes rolled over all personnel: dead captain and several soldiers wounded officials
and nearly all the servants of the pieces. Laurier was only as the impassive head - so his
comrades called him - and helped by the few gunners who remained standing, continued firing,
under a rain of iron and fire, to cover the withdrawal of a battalion.

"I have quoted twice in the order of the day - still reading Margarita -. I do not take in getting
the cross. It's all a brave man.

Who would have believed a few weeks ago !...»

She did not share this wonder. Living with Laurier had seen many times strength of character,
fearlessness by his gentle exterior masked. For somewhat warned instinct, making him fear the
wrath of the husband in the early days of his infidelity. He remembered the man's gesture
to surprise her one night out of the house in July. Age enthusiasts who kill. And yet, had not
attempted the least violence against it ... The memory of this respect
Margarita woke up in a feeling of gratitude.

Such Once he had loved like no other man.

His eyes, with a lust for comparison, were set in Desnoyers, admiring his kindness youth. The
image of Laurier, heavy and vulgar, his memory came as a consolation.

It was true the officer interviewed by her in the station to fire his brother did not seem to her former
husband.

But Margarita wanted to forget the lieutenant pale and had a sad look passed before his eyes,
to remember only the concerned industrial profits and incapable of understanding what she
called "the subtleties of a chic woman." Decidedly July was more alluring. No regrets about
her past: she did not repent.

And his selfish love him once again repeating the same exclamations:

- How lucky you are abroad! ... What a joy to see you free from the
dangers of war!

July always felt irritation at hearing this.

He came close to collapse with one hand mouth of her lover. Did he make fun of him? ... It was
an insult place apart from other men.

Meanwhile, she, with the illogicality of his daze, he insisted on talking about Laurier, commenting
their exploits.

- Do not want, I have not ever wanted. Do not frown. How can you compare
the poor you?

... But we must recognize that provides some interest in his new existence. I'm glad his exploits
as if they were an old friend, a visit to my family which he had not seen in a long time ... The
poor deserve a better fate, have found a woman who was me, a fellow at the level of ambition
... I tell you I feel sorry.

And the shame was so intense that his eyes moistened, waking up in the torture mistress jealousy.

From
these interviews came Desnoyers moody and gloomy.

- I suspect we're in a false position - said one morning to Argensola -, life is going to serna
increasingly painful. It is difficult to remain calm, following the very existence before,
in the midst of a people who are bat.

The partner felt the same. Also considered insufferable young alien existence Paris tossed in
this war.

- Should one go teaching roles at every moment for the police to be convinced that has not
found a deserter.

In a subway car had to explain the other day that was Spanish to some girls who were surprised
were not on the front ... One of them, after learning my nationality,
I simply asked why I volunteered ... Now they have invented a word:
"ambushed."

I'm sick of sight ironic that host throughout my youth, I hate to take me for a French "ambushed."

A
blast shook the impressionable Bohemian heroism. Since everyone was going to war, he I wanted
to do the same.

I felt no fear of death: the only thing he was terrified servitude military uniform, mechanical
obedience to trumpet the blind subordination to the heads. Fight for it offered no difficulties,
but freely or sending to others, because their reared character to everything that meant discipline.
Foreign groups Paris tried to organize each his legion of volunteers, and he also projected
the own: a battalion of Spanish and Latin American, reserving, of course, the presidency organizing
committee and then the commander of the body.

Had released advertisements in newspapers, place of registration, the study of the rue de la
Pompe. In ten days there were two volunteers: a clerk in the very cold summer, which required to be
an officer because he wore morning dress, and a bartender to the first Spanish-language words
stripped of his command refused to Argensola with the futile pretext of having been a soldier
in his youth, while the other was just a painter. Twenty Spanish battalions were initiated
at the same time with equal success in different parts of Paris. Each fan wanted to be boss the
other, with the individualistic pride and disgust to the discipline's own race. Finally, future
leaders, lack of soldiers, seeking to register as simple volunteers ... but in a French regiment.

-
I hope to see what makes the Garibaldi - Argensola said modestly
-. Maybe I'll go with them.

This made her name glorious warrior tolerable bondage. But then hesitated would anyway that
obey anyone in this body of volunteers, and he was rebellious to
a obedience that was not preceded by long discussions ... What to
do?

- It has changed life in half a month --- continued -.

We seem to have fallen on another planet: our old skills are meaningless.

Others go to the front rows, the most humble and obscure, which held
before the last term.

The man of refinement and complications spiritual has collapsed, who knows how many years ...
Now go to the surface as victor simple man of limited ideas, but firm, which knows how to obey.
We are no longer fashion.

Desnoyers nodded. That was: they were no longer fashionable. He could tell, he had known the
visibility and spend now as a stranger among the same people who admired him months earlier.

-
Your kingdom is over - Argensola said laughing -. Nothing good is being a good boy. I, with a uniform
and a cross on his chest, will now expire in a romantic rivalry.

The only official makes dream in times of peace to the ladies from the provinces. But we are at
war, and all woman has awakened the enthusiasm they felt their remote ancestral grandmothers
by the beast aggressive and strong ... Large ladies complicated desires for months with subtleties
psychological, military now admire the simplicity of the maid you are looking for the soldier line.
Uniform feel about the humble and servile enthusiasm of female animality inferior to the crests,
manes and feathers of their male fighters. Mind you, master! ... There to follow the new course
of time, or resign themselves to perish obscurely: the tango is dead.

And Desnoyers thought that, indeed, were two people on the margins of life. This had jumped,
changing the channel.

There was no place in the new existence for him poor painter of souls and for him, the hero
of a frivolous life, which had reached five to seven p.m. wins most envied by men.

III

Withdrawal

The war had extended one of its tentacles to the avenue Victor Hugo. It was a war deaf, in which
the enemy, soft, shapeless, gelatinous, seemed to escape from the hands to resume a little
further hostilities.

- I have stuck at home to Germany - said Marcelo Desnoyers.

Germany was Dona Elena, the wife of von Hartrott. Why had not taken his son, Professor of unbearable that
failure, he now felt like a spy?

... Why what sentimental whim had wanted to stand by his sister, missing the opportunity to return
to Berlin before the closing of the borders? ...

The presence of this woman was for him a source of regret and alarm. Fortunately, the servants,
the chauffeur, all the male servants were in the military. The two Chinese received a warrant
in a threatening tone. Very careful when talking to other French maids, nor the slightest allusion
to the nationality of the husband of Dona Elena and domicile family. Doña Elena was Argentina ...
But despite the silence of the girls, don Marcelo feared a withdrawal of exalted patriotism,
which was devoted to tireless fervor On the hunt for spies, and that
the sister of his wife saw confined in a concentration camp suspicion
of dealing with the enemy.

Mrs. von Hartrott corresponded poorly to these concerns. Instead of keeping a discreet silently
introduced discord in the house with their views.

During the first days of the war remained locked in her room, meeting with family only when
called to dinner. With pursed lips and staring sat at the table, pretending not to hear verbal
enthusiasm overflows Don Marcelo. This described the departure of troops, moving scenes in streets
and stations optimism commenting unable to question the first news of the war. Two things considered
beyond dispute.

The bayonet was the secret of the French and the Germans felt a thrill of terror to its luster,
slipping irretrievably. The gun 75 is was accredited as a unique jewel. Only his shots were
accurate. The enemy artillery He feels very sorry, because if you casually on target, their shells
were erupt ... In addition, the victorious French troops had entered in Alsace: as were his various
populations.

- Now is not like in 70 - said, waving the fork or napkin waving .--. The kicks are going to take
across the Rhine. A kick! ... That's right!

Chichi nodded enthusiastically, while Dona Elena raised her eyes as if in silent protest to someone
who was hidden in the ceiling, putting to witness so many mistakes and swearing.

Doña Luisa was going to look after the withdrawal of his room, believing
in need of comfort to live out of his house.

"The Romantic" worth it no longer silent about this sister I had always complied with their higher
education. And the poor lady was stunned by the story that he was making enormous forces of
Germany, with all their authority wife Germanic a great patriot and
mother a teacher almost famous.

The millions of men emerged to pour from his mouth, then thousands marched to the guns, mortars
monstrous huge as towers.

And over these immense forces of destruction, a man reportedly worth alone an army that knew
everything and could do anything, beautiful, smart and infallible as a god-emperor.

- The French do not know what they are facing continued --- Dona Elena
-. They're going to annihilate.

It is a matter of a couple of weeks. Before the end of August, the emperor has entered Paris.

Ms.
Desnoyers impressed by these prophecies could not hide his family. Chichi are indignant at
the gullibility of the mother and her aunt Germanism. A rousing Belize had taken over the former
'Peoncita. " Oh, if women could go to war! ... He saw a rider on a regiment of dragoons, charged
the enemy as other Amazons hermosotas arrogant like her. Then the skaters on their tastes predominated
ride, and wanted to be a hunter Alpine 'Blue Devil' of sliding over long skates, rifle in the
back and alpenstock in his right hand for the snowy slopes Vosges.

But the government despised women, and she could not get another entry in the war than to admire
the uniform of her boyfriend René Lacour, become a soldier. The son the senator offered a
nice appearance. Tall, blond, a little feminine delicacy reminiscent
to the dead mother, René was a "soldier of sugar" in view of his girlfriend.

Chichi experienced some pride to go out into the street next to the warrior, had found that
the uniform increased because of him.

But one disappointment was clouded by little and little joy. Senate Prince was but a private.
His illustrious father, for fear that the war cut off forever the dynasty of the Lacour, precious
to the state, he did add ancillary services to the military. Thus, Lacour (son) would not leave
Paris. But in such a situation, a soldier was equal to knead bread that cloaks or patching. Only going
to the war front, as a student at the Central School could, make him a lieutenant added to the
reserve artillery.

- How happy you stay in Paris! How I love you to be simple soldier! ...

And while Chichi said this, I thought with envy of her friends whose
boyfriends and brothers were officers.

They could go out into the street, escorted by a braid that attracted kepis the gaze of passers
and greetings from the lower.

Whenever Dona Luisa, terrified by the predictions of his sister, sought to communicate their
terror to the daughter, it stirred angry:

- Aunt Lies! ... As her husband is German, he sees everything like
your wishes.

Dad know more, the father of René is better aware of things.

We are going to great beat long run. What a pleasure to hit my uncle
in Berlin and to all my cousins, so pretentious!

...

- Shut up - wailed the mother -. Do not say nonsense. The war has made you crazy as your father.

The
good lady was shocked to hear the explosion of his wild desires whenever memory was emperor.
In peacetime, Chichi had admired something to this character "He's cute - he said - but with a
smile very ordinary." Now all the concentrated hatred in it. Women were crying because of him at this
hour! Mothers without children, women without husbands, children abandoned to poor people on
fire! ... Ah, poor man! ... Arose in his right hand the old knife "Peoncita", a silver-handled
dagger and cover chased gift grandfather, who was exhumed from the memories of his childhood,
left in a suitcase. The first German to be near her was sentenced to death. Doña Luisa was terrified
seeing brandishing the weapon in the mirror of her dresser. She did not want be trooper or
"Blue Devil." He was content to be left with a space closed against
the hateful monster.

In five minutes she would resolve global conflict.

- Defend, Boche! - Putting on guard shouted, as he had seen done in childhood laborers to stay.

And
with a knife from below upwards air threw the entrails Majestät. Then echoing in his brain
a acclamation huge sigh of millions of women relieved of the bloodiest nightmares thanks to her,
it was Judith, Carlota Corday, a summary of all heroic females killed by doing good. His fury
saving made him continue the imaginary dagger in his hand killing.

Second shot!: Crown Prince one hand and rolling his head on the other. A rain of knives!: All
general invincible speaking his aunt fled with their guts in their
hands, and to the tail of them, as fawning lackey also receiving its
part, Berlin's uncle ... Oh, if you submit opportunity to realize
your wishes!

- You're crazy - protested the mother -: crazy auction.

How can you say that a lady? ...

Elena, the fragments surprise these delusions of his niece, raised
his eyes to heaven, henceforth refrain from communicating their views,
which reserved for entire the mother.

The indignation of Don Marcelo took another form when his wife repeated the news his sister. All
lies! ... The war was going well.

In the eastern frontier, the French armies had advanced within annexed Alsace and Lorraine.

- But what about Belgium invaded? - Asked Dona Luisa -. What about
the poor Belgians?

Desnoyers replied indignantly:

- That is a betrayal of the Belgian ... And a betrayal among decent
people is worthless.

He said it in good faith, as if the war was a match where the traitor was disqualified and the
impossibility of continuing their felonies. Furthermore, the heroic resistance of Belgium inspired
him absurd illusions. The Belgians seemed destined to supernatural men the most stupendous feats
... And he had not given any attention to hitherto this people ...
For a few days in Liege saw a holy city with its walls was about to
crash all the power Germanic.

Falling Liege, his unshakeable faith has found a new foothold. Were Liège many inside. Could go
deeper into the Germans would then many managed to get out. The delivery
of Brussels did not produce anxiety. An open city! ... His surrender
was intended: thus better defend the Belgians in Antwerp. The progress
of Germans to the French border also caused him alarm. In vain his
sister, with a brevity malignant in the dining room was mentioning
the progress of the invasion, referred vaguely the newspapers. The
Germans were already at the border.

- So what? - Shouted Don Marcelo
-. Talk soon found. Joffre them to step out. Our armies were in the
East, on the site that corresponded to the true frontier at the door
of the house. But this is a traitor and coward friends that instead
of giving face comes from behind, jumping the walls of the corral,
like thieves ... You're welcome will his betrayal. The French are
in Belgium and settle accounts with the Germans. The crush, not to
again disturb the peace of the world. And to that damn subject stiff
whiskers will post it in a cage at the Place de la Concorde.

Chichi,
encouraged by parental claims, plunged to imagine a series of tortures
and vengeful scorn as a complement of such exposure.

What most irritated
Madame von Hartrott were allusions to the emperor. In the first days
of the war, his sister had caught her crying at cartoons in newspapers
and certain blades sold in the streets.

- A man so good ... such
a gentleman ... such a good parent! The fault is not nothing. They
are the enemies who have caused.

And his reverence for the powerful
did you consider the injuries against the admired character more strongly
than if they were directed to his own family.

One night, while in
the dining room, left her tragic silence. Several sarcasm directed
Desnoyers crowded against the hero tears in his eyes. This served
her tenderness to remember their children, who are undoubtedly in
the army of invasion.

His brother wanted the extermination of all
enemies. Let there be only one of those pointed helmet barbarians
who had just set fire to Louvain and other towns, shooting to helpless
civilians, women, elderly, children! ...

- You forget that I am a
mother - she moaned Mrs. Hartrott -. You forget that among those whose
extermination ask are my children.

And began to mourn. Desnoyers
saw suddenly the gap between himself and the woman lodged at home.
His indignation overcame family considerations ... Could mourn all
he wanted for his children: he was within his rights. But these children
were aggressors and made wrong willingly. He was only interested inspired
other mothers who lived quietly smiling in the Belgian population
had suddenly seen their children shot, run over her children, burning
their homes.

Elena cried louder, as if this description of horrors
meant a new insult for her