 This is from you to me, and the first thing you have to ignore is
Bringas ... Within the trust, friendship and pure honest, I can offer you I have left and you
take what you need without compromising the dignity of either. "

They followed this phrase of a more romantic than financial, in which the unfortunate Mr. expressed
once again experiencing the comfort his aching soul breathing the atmosphere that house, and
discharging the burden of his sorrows in the forgiving person holding and first place in their
hearts and their thoughts. Rosalie left the window with upset head. Would have gladly been
there a couple of hours listening to those rhetorical, in its view, were as debt arrears of tribute
that the world had to pay with it.

Some days passed without noticing Bringas sensible move in condition. Golfín cruelly tormented him
three times a week, passing by the eyelids a wet brush silver nitrate, then another brush
dipped in a solution of common salt. Our friend see the stars with this, and needed all the strength
of his spirit and his entire dignity of man not to be bawling like a child. By applying compresses
cold water soothed her pain. Some time after the fire was on welfare, and it was felt better
and Golfín grandly praised. After ten or twelve days with this system, the wise eye ensured
that all the good lord in August would be much improved, and that September healing would be
complete and radical. The patient had such faith in the words of that distinguished teacher, did not doubt
the accuracy of the forecast. After 20, cauterization, was done as copper sulfate, was less
painful, and the patient could be some times without a bandage on
the darker room, but focus attention on anything.

The hyperbolic praise D. Francisco had to take her as Ridley's hand another order of ideas, and
frowning, scowling put. "When I think little story that I will make this Santa Lucia with his coat
- he said - I tremble meat. He I heal the face, but I will draw an eye from his pocket ... Not
that I spare, being of the precious treasure of sight, not that I
feel give all my savings, if need be; but it is, my dear, that this
marvel is going to leave without a shirt.

"

While they stood to both, husband and wife, the renowned specialists have always into account,
their fee request, the fate of the patient. A rich, you open a potentate carcass, yes, but
when it comes to a sad employee or any person of humble position, humanizing and able to adapt
to reality. Rosalie knew of a family (those of precisely Reed), who had led Golfín little to
the removal of a cyst followed by a slow and difficult to cure. Sign in these ideas of distributive
justice, applied aching mankind, the great Thiers, when Ridley was present, never stopped stunned
well studied with lamentations of their fate. The good man is crying so much that very nearly
was like asking for a handout: "Oh, Mr. D. Theodore, my life will bless you for well I do,
and more will bless you for my children for me because those poor not have to eat if I have
eyes to see! ... Oh, D. Theodore of my soul ... cure me soon so you can get to work, because
if this goes on, goodbye family! ... We are in a horrible lag because of my illness. In the
Administration I have reduced the salary to half, and as I do not see you soon ... What a future!
... And do not tell me. I do not care finish my days in a hospital,
but these poor children ... these pieces of my heart ...».

XXXIII

Mal these ideas were consistent with that Ridley was the establishment of the position and gentlemen
Rosalia, as many times as he had seen the happy couple in theaters, on field trips and public
places, very well dressed one and another, as was also seen walking Rosalia Castellana drive
in the Marquise de Telleria of Fúcar or Santa Barbara and even thought he found it in a meeting
elegant, competing in galas and stiffness with people of higher rank, supposed to give value
to these social cues that D. Francis was a man of revenue, or at least one of those officials
who can remove policy of the juice in vain want others to make the hard, dry work area. But
that Ridley was a little naive in worldly affairs, and as he had
spent most of his life abroad, knew bad our customs and live this
specialty Madrid, which elsewhere would be called Mysteries, but here
are no secret.

As Bringas was entering box, warned his wife that weakened those abductions conjugal affection so
vividly attacked him in the dismal days of his illness. Observed her that such exaggerations
of love got along poorly with the hope of remedy, and when This had the advantage over the disappointment,
the child senile soboncito crying and regained the conditions real manly character. On the
spot, that's you be the lady the slave house and I turned out to be lip service, sick cuddle
irrelevant. Since my man could govern alone and spend hours without suffering, though deprived
of sight, Gasparini in his chair as he had entered as a whole and inspect hormiguilla to provide
for and learn about the innards of the house ... Rosalia, not to hear, let him alone Paquito
or Isabelita with most of the day, and claiming occupations, occurred long encerronas in the Camon,
where he again began to operate Emilia amid a sea of ??rags and tapes,
whose choppy waves came to the door.

But the economist, anxious to show his authority at every turn, come
mandábala his presence, and there, with gestures and looks not with
inexorable judge, made public display (this used to be Torres or some
other friend) domestic sovereignty.

"I smell a stew of sugar. What is this? The girl told me this morning was great package brought
from the store ... Why did not I noticed this ?...».

Rosalie answered awkwardly eat that day in the house Mr. Fish and the host should not be treated
as Candidita, who was given half bun dessert and two dried figs.

"But, my dear, you should be thrown into the fire a bushel of cinnamon ... Is the house stinks
... If I were good, would not these things well. Surely you've made custard for an army ... Do
not even think of anything. To ask the chef how he did such a thing, he'll have sent fact
... And let's see: What is the sound of scissors that I felt all
day today?

... Would I do that, and what brings you here the loafer tasks Emilia
... What is it, to the Marchesa dresses?

This story is much that we shop here a dressmaker for your honor ... And tell me, what clothes
you've done to children, was struck yesterday in the Plaza de Oriente? ".

- Drawing attention!

- Yes, calling attention ... by well-dressed ... Thankfully, that's why. Ridley told me this
morning: "I saw yesterday in the Prado to their children so elegant you ...». Look closely, So
elegant! Believe it, my daughter, this palabrilla known me very badly and I have traversed.
What we think of this good man, when you see that our children go
out there facts lambs a raffle, as the richest people?

... Think whatever nonsense ... I figured some of this myself, because yesterday, in a little while
I unravel, I saw the girl Autumn was wearing very thin stockings. Where did that come from? ...
And he has, Why not remove them to enter the house? ... What is this? What happens here? ...
From this we deal when I see clearly and without pain, that God will be soon.

With these Andromina, Rosalie was, it is easy to suppose, given to demons. He sought to appease
with subtle explanations of everything, but his genius did not come
fully achieve the desired Finally, because of suspicion of the extraordinary
good economist and large their knowledge of things and domestic arts.

A single lady unburdened her heart oppressed, speaking mutely a phrase angry, bitter: "Cursed
cominero, when did I prove that I deserve? ... Do not ever understand a woman like me has to
cost more than a housekeeper? ... Do not you understand, why, Nonito, tooth fairy? Well, I
can I will understand. "

Making plans of gradual emancipation, and studied sentences that was soon to express their final attempt
to break that bondage silly and ridiculous, but all came to their minds land when considering
the huge embarrassment that would befall her if the Bobito discovered the exploration made
in the false bottom of a treasure chest. Christ Father, how was going to get! ... Big lack was
her role to remove that portion of the marital fortune, because although conceived it all
his own, should not take it without consent of their own tooth fairy ... But more was his mistake
to believe that such a man could have jokes that nature. The apology on the occasion of the event
was conceptualized as reasonable seemed to him as vain and unbecoming
of a serious person.

The motives for which it was antojáronsele without any basis, and powerfully argued his conscience.
No, I could not wait her husband felt the need. Gave him a strong dismay at the thought that
he discovered, and was indispensable in place to replace the ill-fated number, six thousand pieces,
he had taken five thousand for a thousand to perform miracles and chandeliers and other trifles.

The
need for this return is imposed so his spirit, no longer thought of nothing thing. He had the strength
of the note and word of the Marquise. This reassured on 22, saying: "Everything is arranged. Can you
neglect. " But meanwhile, Rosalia Black went off, expecting every moment a disaster and run all
sorts of industries and machinations to avoid it. Until then Bobito persisted in the good habit
to give his wife the keys to her chest sacase of money.

But one afternoon antójasele back to their old ways and make the fateful Cajoncillo, and opens
and begins to fondle him that within had ... Oh, God, what my trance,
what time!

The color Pipaón it was and another was coming. Lela and terror was
impedíale make a decision.

"You ... always messing ... You ignore what it says D. Theodore ... What a man ... Dame the case
here. "

- Stand back, calamity - Bringas said defend his treasure with strong gesture.

He told the hundreds of gold one by one, hit two ounces, the old clock that had been his father,
a chain and medallion ancient ... As nothing was missing, there was no danger while standard
was not the double bottom ... Rosalie felt compelled to shout "burning the house!" or other similar
outrage, but did not dare because it was present Paquito. And flexible cominero hands stroked
the part where the top ceiling rose. Rosalia invoked all the saints, all the Virgin, the Blessed
Trinity, and still thinks it made a promise to Santa Rita if he pulled the sake of trouble. But
when D. Francisco got the nail in the wood huequecillo, was in his
mind a change of intention must have been a miracle ... Withdrawing
his fingers closed the casket.

Rosalia turned his soul the body, and his lungs breathed again.

He had been in a trice ... Surely it was wrong by the imagination of her husband's idea, not
even the suspicion of embezzlement, and although it was reviewing tickets just for fun, on this
occasion he did God knows why. Perhaps all those invocations that Ms. made the Saints were
well received, and an angel tooth fairy inspired the idea of ??leaving for another time counting
their savings.

XXXIV

But Pipaón not had all along until they saw him save the casket, put it in your site carefully, as
it gets in the cradle a sleeping child, and turn the key to the drawer. Only then raised his mind
to heaven in thanksgiving for the favor he had just grant. But what did not happen that day
by special divine intervention could well be in another. Saints are not always the same mood.
In case the second time seemed to him to record the double bottom, ran the industrious lady a discretion
which, in apparently postponed the conflict as it came to replacing resolutely avert money.
Imagine, then, placed in the box a few pieces of paper the size of the bills, and if he could
find equal role in the quality of the pasta, so no different touch, cheating was easy, because
her husband was not to see it with your fingers ... Stood to work, and searched and examined how
much paper in the house.

Finally, in the table Paquito found one that it seemed very similar, the flexibility and consistency,
which employed Bank on their tickets.

He received this assurance after careful comparison work enters the various kinds of paper
and a real hundred tickets remained. To refine imitation, lacking give the patina of use,
that sweetness is sticky passage through many hands of tellers and collectors, by the lavish
and by the of the greedy. Rosalia submitted the pieces to a series of operations equivalent to
rattle of notes in public circulation.

- What are you looking here, girl? - Isabelita angrily said he was,
as usual, to put his nose at all -.

Go to accompany dad, who is alone.

Carrion shut himself in to avoid indiscretions, and there crumpled paper, leaving him a ball.
Then he stretched, ironed it with the palm of the hand, until the repeated squeeze gave the
desired flexibility. I missed that sticky skin that Tickets are true, but how to get this? It
seemed impossible, though his hands were well prepared for the object. Croquettes had done
in the kitchen, and had been careful not to wash their hands so they could print something on
paper of that soil to which no idealist, to my knowledge, has yet
sulky.

When he thought he had worked hard, wanted to test his work. Distrust Entrábale and said, "I
do not know what is this role that no other matches it. I think not cheating. " And his fingers
made a study of touch on the real and sham bill. "Suppose I do not see ... Suppose I put this
forward and I try to differentiate between legitimate the ... Oh, no doubt about it. ...». Immediately
known And a sigh is discouraged therefore, that very nearly had to
give up the hoax ... "No, no - thought then -.

When is in secret, the difference is more noticeable, but not being in the secret ... I'll put in
the double bottom, and God will. See beyond. "

On the evening of that day, when Brinker took the casket, the lady had her papers prepared to
make them act appropriately in case the cominero opened the double bottom. But not open it.
Then Rosalie, to prevent the hassle of going to the table, took off from the Cajoncillo hands,
and in the short time that he use to put in place, he knew enter the vile papers that, when pass this
magazine, should respond by who had gone elsewhere. Of course, that workaround was very dangerous,
and suited to accelerate the final demand for payment of the loan Milagros.

The next day was July 25, the day of Santiago, pulled the Heat in a horrible manner. Bringas
was in shirtsleeves and Rosalie, with a very light muslin robe, never stopped fanning, cursing at every
moment of the climate of Madrid and that exposure to West Bringas had chosen for your home.
Cominero And had the nerve to say that liked the heat, which was very healthy and that he pitied
the fools that were out! That Santiago day of the great economist had announced solemnly and
firmly to all family would not go to bathroom, which was Rosalia more sulfur than the heat.
Prisoner in Madrid during the dog days, when all relationships had migrated! The upper town
palate was almost deserted. The Queen had gone to Lequeitio, and she Dona Tula Dona Antonia,
the largest and most splendid part of the high bondage. Miracles and Mr. Fish were also preparing for
the journey. It would, therefore, the poor girl alone, without further friendship Torres,
Candida and the clerks and little people who lived on the third floor ... Her excitement was
such that all day did not say a quiet word and all that mouth of his August out were harsh,
unpleasant, threatening. Paquito was lying on a mat reading novels and newspapers. Alfonsin tangled
as usual, insensitive to heat, but with breeches open at the front and back, showing the pink flesh and
drawing fresco all I want out. Isabelita not bear the temperature as well as his brother. Pale,
haggard and unable to anything, he threw himself on the chairs and floor, with a feverish slumber,
stretching endlessly searching for the bodies to rub hard and cold against them. Forgotten your wrists,
did not like at all, did nothing but watch what was happening at home, which was quite unusual
that day. Don Francisco decided that make a gazpacho for dinner. He could do better than anyone,
and in other times people in the kitchen with gathered sleeves, and
made a gazpacho that was scrumptious thing.

But at that time can not go to the kitchen, gave its provisions from the cabinet. Isabelita
was the telegraph that transmitted, lazy, and every moment came and went with these parties
culinary, "says piquéis two onions into the bowl ... that put no more than a tomato, or clean
their nuggets ... He says good bits cortéis bread ... and that you put some garlic ... Echéis says
no a lot of water and has more vinegar oil ... That you put two cucumbers if they are small,
and also you to take pepper ... well as a means thimble.

At night the poor girl had a voracious appetite, and although his father said that no gazpacho
had been well, she liked it a lot, and larger volumes ration could. When bed, the weight of infant
sleep impedíale feel the difficulties of the Digestion farrago that it had introduced in his
stomach. His nerves were unruly and brain, as if it were compressed between two forces failure
of the dream action and action nervous and started work with extravagant tricks, playing everything
for the day had acted on it directly through the senses. In his horrific nightmare, Isabel Milagros
seen entering and talk in secret with her mother. The two got into the Carrion, and there were
a little while counting money and talking. Then came Mr. Fish, who was a gentleman unfriendly,
and a devil with a pin of saffron and green pants. He and his dad Policy spoke about rogues
saying that large would cut off their heads all people, and that Madrid would be by a river
of blood. The same river of blood wrapped little then red waves, your mother and Mr. Fish
himself, when speaking in La Salette, she saying that there were already toilets, and he: "I
can not stop me now more, because my girls are very impatient. " After Mr. de Pez got all blue flames
poured from the eyes, and to give the girl a kiss burned. Then he caught on his puéstole Alfonsin
knees saying, "But man, do not you ashamed to go teaching ...». To which Alfonsin quarts answer as
usual asking ... Later, when he was no stranger at home, his father
had been angry about some things that her mother replied. His father
had told him: "You are a spender," and it had gotten very angry at
the Carrion ... After had entered another visit. It was Mr. de Vargas,
the cashier of the Administration, the office his dad. Talking, talking,
Vargas had told his father: "My dear D. Francisco, Mayor has mandated
that from next month is not paid you more than half the salary. 