 His attention, his words of affection were sometimes exaggerated: he wanted
erased with them thinking that clearly read in the eyes of the former. Other times, imagining that
could serve to doubt their sincerity, they stop and take a hit indifferent and cold. Anyway
there was between those two current concerns made them suffer, by different ways, the times when
they were together.

Ms Carmen finally fell into bed, never to rise. Clementina went there all day. The terrible time
approached. At last one morning, between two and three, called with alarm Osorio's hotel two servants
of the duke. The lady was dying. His daughter asked insistently. This hastily got up from bed,
and all the escape of their horses flew to the palace Requena. Osorio was with her. Upon entering
the room with the patient encountered Duke, who will face looked
sullen.

- You arrive on time!

You arrive on time! - Growled softly. And he walked away without another word.

Clementina thought he noticed in these words malicious intent and bit his lip in anger. The
sad scene offered his view, just approached the bed of Ms Carmen managed to briefly shut down their
hatred. The unfortunate lady was showing on his face signs death, deathly pallor, the taper of
the nose, eyes glazed over and around of them a dark circle, purple. At his side and stood the
priest who urged to repent. (What?) At the foot of the bed, Marcela, her former maid, cried hiding
the face with his handkerchief. Two other servants watched from far away with frightened faces,
rather than sore, that pitiful picture. There in a corner the doctor wrote a prescription.

On
seeing his daughter, the duchess turned her eyes toward her and extended
expression of anxiety a hand to call.

Come, my dear - "His voice was quite clear. And after taking his hand went between both of his yellow,
emaciated, terrible exclaimed looking at her steadily in the eye

- I die, my dear, I'm dying!

Is not it true that you feel it? ... Why at least not you glad?

- Oh, Mama!

- Say that you are happy - eagerly insisted without removing his gaze from the eyes of the young.

-
Mom, for God's sake - he said it stunned and terrified at the same
time.

- Say that you're happy! - Repeated with even more power lifting
at the expense of great efforts head, staring hard.

- No, mother
of the soul, no! If I could preserve his life at the expense of mine,
I swear to you that I would.

The large opaque eyes of the dying softened. He put her head on pillow, and after a short silence
and a muffled voice said hesitantly

- It would be ungrateful ... yes, very ungrateful .... Your poor mom loved you so much! ... Give
me a kiss .... Do not cry .... I feel let the world .... What hurt me is that you, my daughter
heart ... you .... What a horrible thought! I have suffered much!

The priest brought at the time asking her to leave the worldly thoughts.

The sick listened humbly, devoutly repeated the prayers that she read aloud. The doctor and the
Duke came to put a shock, but noting that began rattle, the doctor
made a gesture and grabbed his arm to duke it out outside the stay.

Ms Carmen cast a haggard eyes, glassy, ??and all of them and stopping
them in Clementina beckoned again one approaching.

- Farewell, child
- said without looking at her, his eyes fixed on the ceiling -.

You do well to rejoice of my death ....

- You say, Mom! - Said that with a cry of horror.

- It's good .... I am glad that my death serve you something .... If I could give you in life
that I belong ... have given you everything .... It's sad right?

... Have to die to make you happy .... I would have enjoyed seeing you both happy! ... Farewell,
my dear, goodbye ... ever remember your poor mom ....

- Mother of my soul - shouted the lady fell down and bursting into tears -. I do not want I die,
no! ... I've been very bad ... but I've always wanted ... and I respected
....

- Do not be silly - said the dying woman in an effort to smile
and stroked her head with skeleton hand -.

It does not hurt to gloat .... Who cares? ... Die happy knowing that you will owe me some happiness
.... I recommend the old ladies of asylum .... Protect them, my daughter ... Marcela is already good,
too .... Bye bye all .... Forgive me the evil I have done ....

Rattle
grew, sounded more strident and more grim by the minute.

Clementina's sobs and cut at intervals Marcela notes that snoring fatal. Duke, trembling, altered,
drag it left the end of the room.

Ms Carmen did not speak again. His eyes closed, mouth slightly open,
the body alone.

From time to time up a little eyelids and looked affectionately at his stepdaughter kneeling. The
priest read a nasal voice, plaintive, the prayers of his book.

Thus died the Duchesse de Requena. Leave her, let her go!

Some days later, Clementina and her husband, despite the professed unquenchable hatred, held long
and frequent conferences. The great question of inheritance temporarily united. Clementina morning
and afternoon visiting his father. Osorio also often went to the palace Requena. Either the
old thousand attentions lavished, pitied her solitude, her spoiled. There was some familiarity
affectionate behavior that fits very well with some children that
will protect the venerable old age of a parent.

The Duke was left watching worship with that sly look more tenderly. When they returned back to leave,
followed him with eyes, lowered his eyelids slowly, stirring between his lips and the American
fig sketching in his face was a grin that lasted even a few seconds after of out of sight.

Things
continued in the state before. Despite the will of the Duchess was strict, Salabert did not deign
to speak a word of interest. Continue to have their chief flow delivered to business with absolute
confidence. His daughter and her husband lost it to see this attitude. Began to live rough,
to communicate to every moment with violence impressions, to form plans to bring an explanation.
Clementina Osorio claimed that you speak. This thought was she who had kindly ask for an explanation
before from making a complaint.

After several days of hesitation, finally decided the wife to address a few words to his father,
though with some hesitation and pregnancy, he knew the character
of this and better yet your own.

- Let's see, dad - he said, finding
him alone in the office, with affected gaiety -.

When I talk about money?

- What money? ... Why? - Duke responded with surprise, looking at her face so innocent that
made you want to slap him.

- Why should it be? to find out what concerns me. Am I not the only universal Mom's heir? - replied
without leaving the jovial tone, but with some alteration in voice
well perceptible.

- Ah, yes - said the Duke, making a hand gesture
of indifference -.

We will discuss later ... Much later!

Clementina turned pale. Anger made her jump to her blood.

His lips trembled and was about to say nonsense.

- It would be nice, however, we understood we ...-- murmured faintly.

- Nothing, nothing, not talk now. When you have time and mood and I will deal with those things.

He
spoke with such confidence and indifference not without contempt,
that his daughter had to choose between give free rein to the tongue,
to break with his father in a violent way, or leave.

Decidióse, after a moment's hesitation about this. He turned on his heels, and without a word goodbye
left the room and got into the car, in a state of excitement that shook whole body.

When he got home he ran to lock herself in her room and gave out the fury that seized. He cried,
kicked and tore his clothes, broke a piece of junk. Osorio also mounted angry and said he would
do and events. All this was not, however, rather than a letter that, with enough respect, his father
invited him to manifest the state of their finances, to kick off early trading inventory.
Salabert did not answer this letter. We wrote another. Neither. They stopped to visit. Clementina
did not want go "not to make a scandal." Osorio was not considered sufficient moral force,
since the state of their marital relationships, with power to claim the wealth of his wife. In this predicament
talked to some friends of the Duke of respect, and sent them as medians. They fulfilled their task:
they spoke with the old, and after several interviews resolved to bring about a friendly meeting
so that the case go to court. Efectuóse this, after some resistance by Clementina, in the palace of
father. It was attended, besides stakeholders Ortega's father, Count Cotorraso, Calderon and Jimenez
Arbós. The latter (which had ceased to be a minister and was in opposition) opened the meeting
broaching a speech "conciliatory tone" excited to Concord for not giving the public the spectacle
of a dispute between father and daughter money issues, show that, given his high position in
the world, could not to be repugnant. Followed him in using the word Father Ortega, who with persuasive
accent and unctuous that characterized him, after giving them, like the Duke to their children
a good crazy praise soap to put soft, appealed to his Christian feelings, they This was a bad
example that would, I painted the sweetness of love and sacrifice mutual and concluded by promising
them eternal glory.

Clementina said the first she had no other wish than to continue to hold with his father the same
relations of affection and respect that until then, and that to achieve was willing to do whatever
was possible. The hard, dry tone that gave these words and the scowl that accompanied them did not provide
clear evidence of his sincerity.

However, the duke said so moved.

- Arbós! Father! You, my children! Everyone knows my character perfectly .... For me, outside
the family there is no happiness possible .... After the terrible blow that out of suffering,
the only thing I have left in the world is my daughter .... Here I have concentrated all my love,
my hope and my pride .... I worked for her, I fought tirelessly, have met I own the capital ....
I can say I've never felt the need for money rather than my woman (God rest his soul) and my
daughter ..., by viewing them happy being surrounded by and luxury .... I always have enough to
live four quarters, as you know. Today I am old, more so .... What do I and millions? Soon I will
be forced to take the train to another neighborhood, eh, Julian? And thou likewise. Consequently,
to whom may come up that I will fight as a matter of pennies to the daughter of my heart ... Here
there has been more than a mistake. I needed time to clarify my issues .... That's all .... But if
you have thought otherwise, my dear, I can only tell you this .... What's in this house is yours
and always has been.

Take it whenever you want .... Take, daughter, take it .... I simply nothing ....

As he uttered these last words visibly moved, his eyes wanted arrasársele tears. All samples were
also of emotion and burst into phrases conciliation. Ortega's father Clementina gently pushed
into the arms of his father, and although she was less agitated, he finally stopped hugging him,
that was a good time tight.

When released it took the handkerchief to her eyes and sank into a chair, beaten by the weight
of so much emotion.

After this no one dared to remember touching scene of interest. The meeting broke up tightening
all hands cordially and warmly welcoming the success of flattery
his efforts.

But Clementina Osorio and his car ran into serious, frowning, and
no talked all the way a word.

Only when I got home the wife whispered accent angrily

- We'll see
how to play!

Osorio shrugged and replied:

- I give it by sight.

Neither is wrong.

The Duke and gave them a penny again or talk to any of the inheritance.

He was very affectionate with them: They did eat many days at home, complaining of loneliness,
until he spoke sometimes businesses that were pending, but nothing to settle their share share.

Clementina became irritated as abruptly left to go home. Mediate again cards. They could not
get more than answers ambiguous, vague hopes. Finally decided to sue, and began a lawsuit that
shook with joy to the curia.

Clementina stopped for all happiness. Thereafter he lived in a state of perpetual irritation, following
with eager interest the incidents of the case, draining the attorney, attorneys, seeking to
counter the powerful influence of the duke.

This led the matter with much more calm, I tangled with skill desperate, taking advantage of the violence
she showed to make it appear in the eyes of society as ambitious and unnatural. This did not
prevent that its intimate let go once in a while one of his derisive phrases and cynical,
that it reached the ears of popping fury. The fighting was doing increasingly fierce. On the
other hand, creditors Osorio, disappointed in their hopes, began to turn against him and threatened
to leave him ruined. It is easy to represent the agitation, violence, unrest that would prevail
in the hotel in the Rue de Don Ramón de la Cruz.

This discomfort, and may even be said unfortunately, involved the then lucky Raimundo. The spirit
and the body of Clementina, disturbed by the tumult of other passions, could not resting in
the sweetness of love. The moments that you gave it became increasingly short and restless. Talks
became extinct happy, boisterous, which once maintained.

The beautiful lady and did not like to tease her young lover. He could not remember even those joyous,
childish scenes in which they delighted, now making it to queen court
receives their ministers and kisses playing cards or in a thousand
other trifles that he set to adolescence.

Now just could talk about anything but their lawsuit. Her nerves were so excited that with the
slightest word was fired and mounted in furious anger.

Furthermore, given the vehement interest in his father's success,
growing their Escosura flirtation with newly appointed minister.

This was, as it should be assumed that most was unfortunate the young entomologist.

One day, he was more affectionate than usual, sitting at his feet holding him and stroking hair with
her beautiful, delicate fingers loaded with rings, said in his sweet accent:
- You continue with your jealousy of Escosura. Eh, World? ... As
you do really bad .... I do not like small or great man ....

- Yes,
that I've said many times ... but ....

- No buts about it, wayward
child - said happily tugging at the ear -. Nor have I loved, I can
not love anyone but you. All men seem to me ugly, stupid and presumptuous
by your side .... But (here comes my but!) Unfortunately you're not
a minister, but deserve more than anyone I know .... You know that
my fortune is now in the hands of justice, that of overnight I can
get without a peseta