 But this link where to find him? What breed was it? ... Who knows the spaces then walked
to the angry and visionary imagination! In this fast and crazy ride I found no quiet time or rest,
because everything seemed wrong to make a high Respite ... until I found the most singular of
occurrences. But it was even a assumptions on which to conclude the analysis fatigued. As a result,
and with all the scrupulous detail of whom, as I meditate on that matter as serious as the first time
in his life. I raised thoughts over the barriers craggy valley, and carried him far, far away
of Tablanca, closed my eyes, I went to the parts of memory, and was extracting from it a legion
of images, which I later paraded one by one, ahead of me. When he had spent the last figure
of this bizarre procession returned to the thought the realities of Tablanca montunos ... and
I put my hands to his head as he realizes that has been filling it with nonsense ideas for
saving. I turned off the flashlight of my thoughts and, oh surprise, with the last ray of light
I saw her breeze through obfuscated terms of imagination, a new and unexpected image that seemed
to have itself the power to resolve all the difficulties of conflict. But ... And I ended up
making me crosses and to laugh.

Was still laughing when he came Neluco.

- So I like to see you -
I said - and not with the degustation of these sad days ago.

- For
her return, Neluco friend - I said - if God does the miracle that
I ask.

- However, you laugh now ...

- Laughing Rabbit ...

- I do
not insist - said the doctor - because I do not want to have you by
reckless, but I assure you, without that fear, more than twice had
asked him in recent days on the grounds of a disappointment that you
could not hide.

Woke up this statement Neluco the idea, not entirely asleep on me,
to confess with him as Facia had pleaded with me.

Could expect much from the advice of your experience, and, ultimately,
the relief given in the crush of departing spirits of the resource
them with a good understanding friend.

- Exactly - I said armándome
resolution - I had a great desire to have a paragraph with you on
these individuals.

So, now or ever.

I closed the door of my cabinet, sentámonos the two with the table between them, and began to
speak as follows:

- You must know, friend Neluco that since returning to the rule of order and silence in this house after
my uncle died and was buried, I do not know where to invest the hours I have plenty in it ...
I seem endless, do not see how to improve them and it scares me the
future with a similar perspective.

This is the truth of what happens to me, will I have to your good friend, and you declare
it.

- Why? - I asked the doctor, very quietly, after a silent contemplation
moments.

- For now - I answered - so that you know, then, that, if
any kindly assist me with his authoritative advice.

- What? - Ask
me again with the same serenity as before.

- Well, I like the occurrence,
gee - I cried a little bit by that way of cornering, that looked very
much like a joke rather heavy -.

What is meant here to help a man perishing in the bottom of a cliff?

- Excuse me - "the doctor - but either I'm not in my right mind, or the case I quoted for example,
is not entirely applicable to your particular case. Which is in the bottom of a cliff, can
have no other desire than to go out and get away from him and you,
in the situation today is, you can serve in two ways: helping out
it, or go for a test work bearable and even fun.

Now you tell which of these two extremes is.

- The best seems to you - I said - or both together ... In order to please you in my case, tell
me frankly.

- Well, frankly I say - said the doctor not to wonder what happens to you.