 The companies of cavalry of Puno, and the Tiquillaca, commanded by D. Andres Calisaya, This
second village chief, with others of the Chucuito, opposed to those who tried attack by the Cerro
de Queroni, but never locked combat, because undertaken fled to the slopes of the mountain,
and down when our retired. As was decided that Captain D. Juan Asencio Monastery, with the assistant
D. Francisco del Castillo, and some other officials from other provinces, incorporated with the
rifle company, advanced supported by the cavalry, as egecutaron happily, pushing back the enemy to
mountains, was the result of which free people everywhere. Function lasted until six in the evening:
it repeatedly attacked the enemy with all his might, that as it is passed from 18.000 the combatants,
and ours only came to 1.400. The fixed number of the dead were, we could not investigate because
they looked after they are removed promptly, but in response to live and continued to fire
they suffered, were to be believed many, and the highest number of wounded. Of us was hurt Chucuito
Governor a rifle bullet that pierced his left thigh, and dislocated the same Orellana foot of
a fall from his horse, which briefly noticed discomfort, and continued the action. Other officers
and soldiers were also wounded, and some of them dangerously, but ended happily the result
of his injuries.

At night, doubled the care and safety precautions to prevent a surprise;
but the rebels abandoned the site, leaving only a piece to conceal
his withdrawal: to provide coverage to better their true intention,
which maintained its cautious view used to make some proposals to
the clergymen who placed themselves to parley its immediacy, again
asking the person be handed the magistrate Orellana, and publish the
They sent camp, commanded by the traitor see José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru,
entertaining part of the morning with these and other stratagems,
something more subtle and warned, regularly than a nation renowned
thought humble and uneducated, to disappeared all in search of the
first who gave up the effort.

Then Reconocióse was certain the entire withdrawal, and no doubt would go in much disorder,
it was decided remain upon the villa companies that were considered necessary for safekeeping,
and the rest of the troops out in scope, under the command of Colonel Chucuito militias, D. Nicolas
de Mendiolaza, were pulverized to the rear with the prevention of too strive not with enemies. He managed
to achieve a league and a half away, on a mountain not very high, to the left the real way
of Cuzco. The minute they were immediate, the first alighted, and unite them without waiting
for the others, began the fire on some Indians, who separated the bulk of his army occupied
and defended a short eminence of stone, where they were rejected instantly, and went to meet
with others, in the top of the hill, which was where they had their charges. There was renewed fighting
with incredible bravery of obstinacy and both sides, because without the rifle, he believed
more suitable for entertaining to the contrary, wreaking havoc on them, which was also defended
with courage and perseverance. However could have achieved a glorious action, if companies of cavalry
had copied to the forefront the few who fought with courage and bravery, but in spite of zealous
activity that sought to carry the fight their Commander Mendiolaza could not reduce the persuasion
or the example I gave, putting himself at the head of them, making he fire the enemies amid
a flurry of stones which they threw their slings from close range, and seeing that nothing could,
abandoned the attempt which had proposed stay in that place until the next day to continue the
attack, and play sent the call to retire to Puno, as they performed. But the same disobedience
of troops caused the disorder, and perish in the function and removed six of us: rather than
bought enemies to much price advantage because they had more casualties, having suffered more
than two hours, a high heat to them by the musketry.

Although it managed to repulse the rebels in Puno, who founded the trust in futility that were
directed against the Indians of that village where people traveled, caused dire misfortunes.
In the village of Coata wiped himself every day to Spanish and mestizos who may have to blows, and
the same happened in the Capachica. On the other part, the people of Yunguyo Desaguader Cepita
Chucuito province, declared by the party of rebellion and joined the province Pacajes, preventing
pass an extraordinary, Orellana dispatched by the Commander of the Peace, asking him appoint
a sugeto able to maintain and defend that position should be considered already in care to that
as a result of the fall of the horse was unable to continue as important Object: and considering
that he had been fruitless diligence, did not think of another thing that prevented damage to
lower than expected, and resist invasions that repetition of the
insurgents.

Also Chucuito Governor, then he knew the alteration of the first towns in the province, asking
the media to calm down, and having tried on board, war which seemed more appropriate, submit proposed
to contain armed men those movements, to which no Orellana agreed by the consideration that,
being arising the same cause as others, it was essential that the whole province were moved,
and Thus detachment getting locked in the center of it: as indeed it happened to that, the Governor
particular order, are sent to the chief's Pomata, D. José Toribio Castilla, who was killed
with 25 men who accompanied him on his own people, who took occasion to declare to the neighbors
discovered by the rebel side.

With the news of this second unfortunate event, the same magistrate determined to send all militias
in the province, who marched under the guidance of Captain D. Santiago Road and on arriving
at Juli recognized the bloody havoc of all the inhabitants of that town, which passed by the Spanish,
whose assets had been plundered, without getting rid of the sacred temples of anger and profanity,
taking the rebels for asylum after the mountaintops immediate. Upon entering our people in the population,
they found the plazas and streets flooded of blood and bodies thrown everywhere and found no
one who would give them reason of that fateful show: until the noise of some fusilazos who shot
at Indians who descended to the foot of some hills to bother them, they go to the priests
and a few others who managed to escape, tucked into the most secret places, and assured the captain
Road that there were no other hidden, gathered his people and went back to the campaign all
those who had had the happiness of freedom from the careful application
of the Indians and went back to the vicinity of YLAB, where he had
participated as occurred, and accordingly was determined in a council
of war to continue its withdrawal, but did not obey, until he forced
many Indians Acora people who suddenly declared by the usurpudor whose
novelty Orellana said to them that went for a body troops under his
command, only to sustain the withdrawal, because the just care of
their capital did not allow anything else, not least stay away from
it for long.

Shortly after his arrival, he received the news that the Indian rebels were on Puno: The Governor
communicated Chucuito, Moya, and called him, warning exploited the moments to help him. He
raised his field and was launched at twelve o'clock at night, leaving willing to follow him as
the only way in those critical circumstances, which effectively egecutaron immediate morning
to Chucuito Acora escorting the neighborhood, and those July and had escaped YLAB, whose populations
are immediately seized by the rebels, and delivered to the flames in jail, the gallows and
some private houses, looting in Furniture churches which tried to protect the sacred shadow of
his respect. For Azangaro part of our weapons were happier, as a small detachment, released by
Orellana under the command of D. Calisaya Andres, chief of the village of Tiquillaca, did not
Capachica only relief but also to cover those Pusi, Saman, and Caminaca Taraco that infested by
the rebels, chastened by death of some, and removing the livestock they had. So also D. Melchor
Frias and Castellanos, at the head of the faithful Indian peoples of Mañazo, Vilque, Cavana,
and Cavanilles, who had come forward to provide their people King's service, he traveled the road
of Arequipa, and he defeated a party of thieves, commanded by an Indian named Juan Mamani, who
had intercepted, slaying him and to many of his people, after a stubborn resistance, of whose
results were Free Spanish 20 wives who were prisoners, and the Indians
seized a faithful considerable deprivation, from how much they had
stolen from the people and roads.

Esponse is withdrawn as Chucuito militias to its capital, Captain D. Santiago Road, inquired of
the Board of War, established in Puno, if withdrawal should continue until incorporated into that
town with the other troops, stay in defense of the city, if attacked by enemies, since the
drain and Cepita, continued the conquest across the province, and in this case begged succor
you with live ammunition. Responded the Board, which is franquearian, not only ammunition but
also that it would strengthen with people who are considered necessary, then to report the
number of enemies who threatened, but at the same time he wrote privately to the Governor Moya
commander, to attempt to withdraw all the troops, provisions made to discover any animosity
between these two magistrates, who regularly undergoes Unfortunately, when many have part in
military operations, as everyone wants to own a glory that is envied even those who are unable to acquire
it, and that many misfortunes have followed hard after repair, as happened on this occasion,
for while it was decided, determined Chucuito attack the garrison of a party of Indians coming
to him. Standing in the road, and engaged in combat in the summit and slopes of a mountain of very
harsh and difficult climb, at a distance of half a league from the city, where the value was
not enough that the enemy attacked known to gain advantage, and came up to meet him the next
morning, already found the situation improved, but still fought a long time without fruit.

In the afternoon the enemy recognized the little damage they received from a mason, with which sought
to offend, and determined to seize him, as indeed he got, attacking precipitation suddenly and
those who defended him, who put in a shameful and hasty flight, which followed a total disorder
in others. Indians do not miscarry this favorable opportunity presented to them, and upload it again
with all the fugitives, followed them to lock them in the city, in the scope of which killed many
of the ours. The Indians did not dare to penetrate even into the population, and retired In
the foothills of the mountains that dominate it, after having set fire to a few ranches around,
satisfied with the benefits they had achieved, but the confusion extremity where were those
militants, led to a total lack of obedience, and without repair the danger to which esponian,
scattered and disordered fled to Puno, arriving many the same night, referring to that event
with mournful wailing and greatly exaggerated the number enemies that made up to the immense.
Novelty Difundióse instantly throughout the villa, and dismayed by this sort of tensions, which
Orellana came to suspect trying to leave their troops, so that was obliged to take great precautions
to avoid it, and to the Next morning, though the missing part of Lampa not just fears of new attack
Chucuito marched to three companies of cavalry, in order to investigate the situation of Indians,
and which enters the same city if the road was disengaged, but with orders not to engage in
any function, but only supports withdrawal Officers and soldiers who had remained, and also to pick
up the wretched Spanish of that neighborhood, and seek to free them
from the fury of the Indian rebels.

They let the enemies this task to the same city, but was cautious because immediately occupied
a gorge inevitably more difficult to withdrawal, which warned by the commander, while he was
gathering all who had been in Incas, it was necessary to throttle back, yet he was obliged to
open Step by force, whose stock lost some soldiers, unable to avoid the havoc The rebels did
in those who sought to save the shelter of this relief, in which also lost his life occasion
the priest of the Church of Santa Cruz de Juli, he could avoid the first risk of loss in the
commotion of his people. The first to arrive to Puno referred the conflict in which they supposed
to Chucuito, with news of which sent Orellana gets ready musketry all determined to go in
person to help her, and by the act of undertaking the , they arrived other circumstances that
varied widely, ensuring it had delivered the Most of the people, and came back a little with the
three companies incorporated of cavalry, and also was useless to go for those who had not been
able to pass the gorge where the rebels were posted, because inevitably had already perished.
Reasons they did suspend the output, and very soon gave him the most just cause for feeling
He recognized the deception and lack of many sugetos estimation, particularly of D. Nicolas
de Mendiolaza and others, which forced him again to send balza be carried to the lake to the
immediate banks to Chucuito, to liberate some who had hidden in the straw, reed call, that
abounds.

Then they left the city cited the three companies of cavalry, entered
the Indian rebels without resistance, and executed the most atrocious
cruelties.

Killed more than 400 Spanish and mestizos of either sex, without reserve the creatures chest. Within
the priest's house, the cathedral seeking asylum, went to many unhappy sword. With sacrilegious
audacity desecrated temples, without the veneration and respect due serve a shield to those
who had hidden in them, because removing them at the doors of the church, they took away the lives
on the threshold of the house of the Lord. Determined to pass the same Orellana the third
day his troops to prevent some, if he could, so many horrors, but again penetrated with sorrow
to view the pitiful sight he found the streets and squares, and disastrous idea that the entire
population had reduced to ashes, and only had occasion to recognize the skill with which the
zeal of D. Claveras Peter had moved days before more than 240 Puno quintals of quicksilver and important
roles for SM, which were in the royal treasury, which also got involved in the fire all the
people. There was in it other than Spanish the two priests and a few clergy, who also awaited
the death that day, intifada the inhuman leader of the rebels, if not declared the camp site
where they supposed hidden SM flows, the danger averted by the arrival of Orellana, whom expressed with
tears of her heart, and then thought about returning to Puno, traffic which carried the enemy
to the Gorges, with intent to cut up, as it had been earlier: but they were frustrated the plan to
have bet some Rifle pickets who held them with the loss of three or four of the most daring.

At
the same time or with little difference, the Indians of that part of Azangaro, doubling their efforts,
back on the people of Capachica, whose faithful Indians had some mestizos rejection of the principles,
but finally gave in to the crowd, which empowered the population,
used the same cruelties on the other, from the sword and to all the
Spanish people white, which may have to blows.

So, there were no nearby Spanish Puno others that sought to invoke that with time the shadow
of the trenches of that town, which was like a small island in the middle of Loyalty a sea
of ??rebellion that surrounded on all sides. Indian rebels Desaguadero Omasuyos and Pacajes
rid of care that gave them the province of Chucuito, with total ruin of their capital, were warned to
attack to Puno, in concert with those who occupied Lampa provinces and Azangaro. This risky situation
to the truth, compelled him Orellana to ask for some relief to the captain of grenadiers of the regiment
of infantry veteran of Lima, D. Ramon Arias, and colonel of militia, D. José Moscoso, with a detachment
of 500 Arequipa men had left, and lies nine leagues away alone, but only replied that they had no
orders from their chiefs to cross, much less wanted to send ammunition and food she will buy,
if that ground before; as executed, leaving the center to Orellana provinces revolted those without
more resources than they had in the short-occupied premises, where he was alone, because Moya
Governor was compelled to go to Arequipa to heal the wound as a result of he had received in
the thigh in the attack of the day March 11. This statement left see rebel Chucuito the day
April 9, 1781, and until the next morning were marching to occupy the neighboring mountains that
dominate to Puno. Orellana had increased some defenses to resist. He raised a tower at the site
Guansapata advantageous, which placed a cannon and a mason, with the corresponding musketry
for safekeeping. Inside the villa reinforced trenches, and grew, opening new pits in places
that seemed weaker. I had three more guns, he did cast in all diligence, and sought to provide
themselves with powder and ball, with which orders are hopes conceived to repel the rebels
who tried to invade later.

In fact, the morning of 10 immediate woke up, forming a semi-circle on the hilltops, where attempted
to seize a portion of livestock, leading to hostilities beginning this term and remove the
subsistence of the garrison and neighborhood. To avoid this highlighted companies of cavalry,
and although they had the orders not to commit, could not contain, and rushed to the enemy:
so that not only thwarted his attempt, but also evicted the land they occupied.

After the operation which had been referred to these companies, commanded bet Orellana outside
the population, towards Chucuito Avenues because it was discovered that part the bulk of enemies,
who were quick to lock them some lasting escaramusas until two in the afternoon, it came out
to support part of the musketry, causing a fire continued on that liberalized. From the turret
of Guansapata and square are made also quite fire with artillery, whose shots coming with opportunity
and success, caused some havoc on the enemy, who retreated to the most fearful eminent Orcopata
hill, until with the approach of night ceased all hostilities on both part without the one we
had perished, but many of his own, with a number who had significant injuries. On the opposite side
and Hill had been stationed Quicksilver from morning a party of enemies, who were kept in constant
motion, gesturing to undertake the Indians Mañazo entire period of the attack others. With the
idea of cut and is not held in the other, Orellana gave the order for a task cavalry come
out to attack them, which so aptly egecutó, which came at the same time Paucarcolla faithful
Indians, and stay Guaca Moro, who took them from behind. And to be sure but the try and force
them to surrender, the position was reinforced with some pickets Rifles, who arrived very late
and were unable to rise to be very rough and dangerous: they stated obstacles to retreat to the
square, where some went very abused the hondazos who had received, which is why it took the provindencia
of command the Indians stay faithful and maintain their position, and that the guard Mañazo
the opposite slope until the next morning, they probably thought would be achieved, whether
the low compliance and no warning of the chief had given them no Bastinza the means of escape.
Thus the second invasion resisted the village suffered Pano, and although the number of enemies
that rushed, was not as great as in the first less the confidence was not taking it, but disappointed
by the same method to withdraw at night, with only the difference of having followed their flight
without stopping anywhere, for long afraid to come out the garrison in scope, as in fact he
practiced Orellana it some distance, to prevent damage to suspicious egecutasen Icho Indians
from the jurisdiction of the province, which until then had not missed to the fidelity, diligence
fails, because when he came to this town, and had his throat cut to all the Indian revenge
this inhumanity, the fidelity of their husbands who were enrolled in Pano, constantly following its legitimate
sovereign flags

.