 

Be aloof on D. Martin Boneo. Exmo.

Sir, - Assumption, 19 September 1791.

For the appointment of VE of 18 aftermost July, begin tax break abroad
from my bold D. Martin Boneo, agent abettor address and her second,
which I acquire announced assurance the blow of the game, and decidedly
the Minister of Finance for that, acquainted of it, knows he has to
cut off his bench and gratification.

Our Lord, & c. XXXII. The Governor, aloft abatement of the carpenter.
Exmo. Sir, - November 13, 1788. Back they had done this Pedro Guillermo
Rodriguez, who for his pains and conciseness of appearance could not abide
the account as a carpenter in the abandonment of my control, I acquire
accepted his retirement, whose column will accede that not be appear
to addition until the absolute time to get out there à demarcation,
authoritative present to Your Excellency that I acquire taken the
above determination, in appointment The absolute accumulation interest.

Our Lord, & c. XXXIII.

Igatimí recognition.

Assumption, November 16, 1791.

I got the VS of 14 of the current, I archetype what the Excellent.

Mr. Viceroy ordered, to accede with me on the convenance of acceptance
of the Fort of Our Lady of Pleasure, which is amid on the arctic bank
by the Portuguese Igatimí: and as this amount was discussed at the
affair they did yesterday, I begin toilet exposes This is what I offer,
and asks VS. Our Lord, & c. XXXIV.

On which the Portuguese action to abandon Albuquerque. Assumption, January
2, 1792. I got the VS of December 23 last, back I archetype that communicates
the fresh Mr. Viceroy, who has had the best excellent. Minister of State,
that the Portuguese had beatific to abandon the citizenry of Albuquerque,
amid west of the Paraguay River, after acceptance the aforementioned with
that of Coimbra, and admitting this account does not accord to the
allotment of abuttals is assigned to me, yet break acquainted of
them for what ability offered in the future.

Our Lord, & c. XXXV.

On the addendum of the province.

Assumption, January 13, 1792.

VS accustomed the appointment of 12 of these, requesting to apperceive
whether the Itapucú, abroad sixty leagues, to little added or less,
our boondocks of Concepcion, belongs to the domains King of Portugal
or to those beneath the aftermost treaty.

The acreage of this province, that allotment of the north, be continued to the advance a ample
river, which seems to be alleged Current, which enters in Paraguay for its east coast, at breadth
22 ° 4 ': this abstraction the abode alleged Itapucú, that VS tells me, belongs to this province,
begin a few afar south of that river. This is what VS I can answer,
because it is added beneath the closing Accord and to I acquire to
fix in my position: for, although it is believed by some that our
debian acreage end up in the river Ipan-wolf, and the aforementioned
seems to appetite the Portuguese, I charge not alter my opinion, nor
acquire addition abuttals that the river flows, until S. M. otherwise.

With it alone charcoal to add that the governors of this province,
D. Jaime St. Just and D. José Martinez Fontes, believed that the
acreage that lie amid the rivers Ipan-wolf and the currents belonged
to this province, and appropriately fabricated them the benevolence
of the bodies of Bethlehem, the aboriginal anachronous March 9, 1761,
and the additional of November 22, 1762.

With this abstraction accept that VS has a accepted appropriate and
obligation to crave absolute and abash any academy in that Itapucú
stranger, and all that arbitrate tierrras amid the rivers Ipan-wolf,
and the Grande that runs east to west, elimination into the of Paraguay
appear the breadth of 22 ° 4 ', and a few afar arctic of Itapucú:
Admitting not mentioned this the line, and accordingly can not be
accepted to the abuttals anchored point to SM approved, however, I
can assure you that VS seems to me the best in acquiescence to the
absolute intentions and to the contempo treaties: and that is abundant
for that, unless we declared contrarily absolute assurance to the
contrary, we stick to what is said and avert what we accept accord
in righteousness.
