 

Peace be hurt by this answer, and diverting eyes from him, was silent, but his attitude and the
expression on his face showed no anger, but bitterness. It seemed that he had spoken so had
authority to do so. Pepe said in surprise:

- Excuse you, but the error is not mine. It took you as a cry of poverty mocked, perhaps an unconscious
envy what has been a very simple observation. How could You believe that I dared to so much? What
am I to you, Miss? Only spoken Were you honored me pay for it with
rudeness or lightness?

- Say no more the case.

What I want is to know that I have not offended you - and he extended a friendly hand.

Both were stunned, and since then were more reserved one for another. Peace remonstrated mentally,
thinking that Pepe injuring the shame of poverty had made very ugly action. Pepe did not succeed
to define what he felt.

Their lives began to come together as in the bed of the river tend
to gather, drawn by current grain of sand and the gold particle.

VI

When Pepe finished the job for which he was called, he stopped going to Don Luis: something like
fear him away from there. The last morning was, taking advantage of a time left they could
not watch him. They asked their parents if they had paid, and said: - "I was not Don Luis, and
see him in the Senate. "The truth was that, like M. de Agreda who any expenditure was met Peace,
Pepe was loath to the idea that it was she who put in the handful of hard labor provided by
his father.

For the first time I felt spring up in the background pride of the soul: a bad drive was a
precursor of more noble sentiment, so sometimes in the spirit of man, as in the life of nature,
precedes the shadow to the splendor the day.

One week elapsed without Pepe return home, Paz was accused of this, and worried with that disappearance,
and thought about the poor lad if he were a friend offended: it also
agreed that he had not paid, but could not think of sending the discrete
mode money.

Why a servant? He could not explain the cause, but for anything in the world had valid for
such a medium. Write her? To imagine, was not afraid to hurt that
crossed his imagination, but rather as a vague fear, shame mortified
by itself.

At the end did nothing, not even dared to speak to his father, but never stopped thinking about
it and there was day, crossing the room of books, experienced disgust and sadness.

Gradually the light grew in his soul.

       His ears, made to flattery, no never heard phrases the mob, nothing
made her feel those men who might want it as a jewel placed at their
fingertips, and now she put spontaneous and stubborn determination
to remember simple sayings, the most insignificant compliments of
a pauper, who was terrified a cost of five thousand.

What sometimes seemed romantic to the ridiculous, others times felt like to mourn.

* * * * *

One morning in the spring of 1872 - eight or nine months before that dinner where parents Pepe
spoke about the upcoming arrival of Tirso - were in San Pascual, de Recoletos, playing Mass of eleven.
The sun lit up the grass of the little gardens, polished by moisture and obscured in spots by
the shadows of the acacias, whose aroma perfuming the air. About the deep blue sky stood out
dark green tops of some pine trees, the branches, including purple and crimson, love the trees,
pretending Japanese background details, and Boxes waterlogged stood the pungent smell of wet
earth. Children played on the floor glazing with yellow sand-colored outfits, and fell crying
undercuts the trees, while the nurses were laughing in chorus some shameless lackey. In the
banks, each with a newspaper in his hand, had some old gentlemen, types retired military, the
elderly infirm that shaking the numbness of winter went in search of warm sunshine. In Aguaducho,
full of glasses, the towering beacon of sugar cubes and the jar with spigot, after which thick
belly hid the jar sour cherries and plate rolls, while the water carrier, giving a talk saved, washed
in the basin brass spoons. At the center of the circular walk quickly some spirited horse drawn
carriages along the line of chairs iron unemployed were a few cabs to hack down the neck and the driver
lying on spelling out the box Cowbell. On the other hand, the trams ran on rails, blocked
by cars and trucks, their drivers cursing aside of the road when he heard the whistle foremen,
and the long stone pavement, silent, step by step from top to bottom, authoritatively the couple
was bored guard public order, then called yellow take comfort that no other subversive looks good-looking
maids. In the neighboring streets they arrived just combed and flirty ladies willing to make
the groom out to meet the girls eager to play and loaded moms devotional subjects Autumn gum.
A fast walking the way from impatience, other tired with the fat of the years, looking, according
to your taste, exquisite elegance, workshop arrangements homemade oddities fad, fashion hype, some
simply calculated and all hard to please. At the door of the temple we stopped from time to
time a sedan emblazoned, and slowly got out of it a lady, the more powerful less adorned, showing sleepiness
eyes leaving the overnight, and the withered face burning tracks the atmosphere of the holidays.
A quick and short little steps, bending the body into the earth, head down and fearful awareness
of late, came attached to the facades of the the little old house shoes and black shawl goat, and
they were going ahead devout girls, as ignoring the power of youth, calling incessantly to heaven
those that can give the world. The bell was calling them with his monotonous ring, and all
came as a flock to the fold: ugly, beautiful, rich, miserable, virtuous, lost, holy, sinful,
mothers, courtesans, the household vestal or priestess of love, all, elbowing, together, they
disappeared swallowed up by the door of the church, raising to enter a portiere heavier than
a slab and quickly hinting charged atmosphere, dirty, smoky and dotted with the yellow glow of
candlelight.

Throughout the morning he was renewing that audience, mostly women,
and the door women swallowing was then thrown into the street past
twenty or thirty minutes after which I saw them opening out or unfolding
umbrellas fans, because sunlight the offended, and his retina accustomed
to the darkness of the holy cave.

Some men also fell, but the greatest number of them remained in the little gardens forming
a circle, discussing the day's news had just read in the newspapers
that sellers hawked around him with the last parts of the North.

Towards the street could be heard Alcalá jingle of the buses that went to the section of the
bulls, and walking slowly along the seafront, sun-drenched, came the donkey with baskets full of pots,
listening to screaming from time to time to fine fellow who led them: the tieestóo of claaveles
doobles ... Those who came the outcry could hear fragments of conversations and noticing, perhaps,
some of which up there with him to his wife or daughter defended the ideas of the century with
words impregnated of modern wickedness.

- Items are on the rise.

- They say that the King goes to the Northern army.

- If this does
not hold, we go right to Don Carlos.

- Well, you believe that religious
fanaticism debases us to cultured Europe.

- I fear I have is who
the Republicans.

Let us go to a ninety-three awful.

- All evil passions have made their way.

- Up to form a league they have to lose!

- Every day a meeting! I even peaceful demonstrations by top of the setae.

- Calle you, man, by God!

That is not compatible with the government.

In times of Don Ramon and Don Leopoldo had mitins!

It will come.

- Well, I think that the King wins sympathy.

- What has to win, man? If a foreigner!

- You are mistaken, Sir, that means nothing. History shows that Carlos
I and Philip V were also foreigners.

A group of ladies out high-pitched and shrill voices, trying to rags, fashion, gossip and servants.

-
Girl, no one knows what to wear: this is from last year.

- Well, I feel very good.

Look, look, there goes the impeller. The other night was that they were Castellana in the white
blanket and comb to tease the Kings.

- What a mess!

Queen To me I feel sorry.

- Daughter, what do you want? As the impeller was hostess Isabella!

Well I've heard that alfonsinos move much: - And this he said looking
sideways at a gentleman who sat in an iron chair, still with an eye
to the group of ladies.

Two chicks separated from their mothers held, with dengue fever and
grimaces, a lively dialogue.

- Do not you enter?

- No: Enrique's
father says the mass very slowly.

I also want to give time to get that. Mom left and enter the house.

Is the poor boy who drinks winds.

- What's yours?

- This just in June.

- Daughter, as you said a year ago. The race has that! ...

- Well, I like. He is more loving!

- Girl, with those suits seem striped zebras.

- Bye, Mom to be those of Zangolotino!

- Abur, remononísima.

The premature, fuming at the mouth and wearing American last summer, parody Don Juan Tenorio.

- I tell you this lady is not such a lady, and I have said he appears.

- Come on, boy, you shut up! I've followed two evenings, and not even looked at me.

- Well I know that you are dating.

- Yes! Disappointed.

- I come ... goodbye.

The bell sounded stronger, the beggars in the temple gate saddened
voice as they could, wet nurses were beginning to march like a donkey's
milk; Ladies entering or leaving the church, throwing envious looks,
the raging heat and walking it was becoming little more than desert,
hearing by the strong stone pavement taconear of girls passing by,
half hidden by the wide umbrellas in bright colors, while the mother
called to children, dogs running and playing mules stopped to look
at the pictures that were to step into the hand of the newspaper vendors.

Was slowly going around the world, and the bell stopped playing, there were only the tobacconist,
sitting next to her drawer, the wife of Aguaducho turning on a concave dish the pot of stew that
just bring a guy, and the pair of yellow, horse up, walk down, came from Cibeles to the Mint.

While the sexton, with his bunch of keys and his robe stained wax out Close the door of the temple, also
left two women: one, dressed modestly in black, gray hair, wrinkled face, lady-like modernized,
mittens and shoes lace of Rusel, the second set elegant and extremely simple, without ornament
or jewelry. Peace and her governess were.

- There has been the car - it said - Let's sit a while, no longer take .-- And began to make
drawings in the sand with the stick of the umbrella.

The old woman looked at the air as he thinks of the shrews. The power of the sun was rising; the shadows
of the acacias drew strongly on the ground and very black outlines, and Jardinillos was nothing
but a passerby spurred by the hope of lunch or some old gentleman laboriously dragging his feet
on the sand. The water carrier was savoring his frugal meal, and the tobacconist dozed thrown
face down on the stone of test currency. Suddenly the car arrived Peace and stood to walk across.

-
Come on - said it pulled the groom seeing the box.

Peace Putting your foot in the stirrup suddenly turned to look at the costume of a lady passing,
and noticed that a few steps away, was a man, Pepe.

The girl hesitated for a moment: his first impulse was to call him, but felt in the face a wave
of heat and embarrassed his own idea, sat down beside the old. Then he saw Pepe and took off his
hat: She bowed her head, giving her eyes a look of affectionate confidence, and then for a few
seconds, he was leaning toward the window: Pepe remained still. When starting the horses became
Peace at him, and then, without realizing it, his eyes were riveted
on the boy sadly, leaving the lids then fall slowly that look as if
they intend to ship an expression of sympathy and a complaint.

Pepe, that had not moved yet, stood amazed, confused, with the admiration that creates an impression
never felt. It was not in vain conceit that he entered the soul, nor vainglory sudden absurd
adventures, but a very great surprise. What those signs were born of pleasure, restrained, but very
clear? The moment of hesitation to get in the car, and then sweet,
sad look, what they mean? Impregnated loving that expression of modesty,
but obvious, why obey? Might not be everything, but some of that sympathy
which, like alms, exempts the powerful to the miserable. The pessimism,
the constant companion of misfortune said he was right. What else
could it be? But then the imagination defeated sanity and the folly
of thinking overcame the chill lied that he wanted to flaunt Pepe
before it itself. His mood was rapidly passing the biggest disappointment
to the more fanciful hope and finally, after many entertainment options
and weakness, fearing that the novelistic degenerate into ridiculous,
decided not to ever put foot in the house of M. de Agreda, or never
pass by Recoletos to the hours of mass.

Indeed ... Sunday was another
Recoletos with the intent to see her without her noticing and, when
he saw the car, entered the church, staying in the shade, next to
the entry screen. A moment later the nurse came Peace and merged in
a group with other women, let them fall pass, and as they knelt, advanced
to put in place suitable to look on taste, without being seen.

The
church was embroiled in a semi-shade gray and dirty, the light falling
from the high windows of the cupola, hidden by thick blue curtains,
not enough to clarify the environment. From time to time campanillazos
sounded, and sometimes the clash of the rooms inside the brush an
acolyte presented to the faithful asking for this holy iglesiaaa cultooo.