 Even
Don Antolin loomed in the morning at the door.

How's the baby? "Like ...? All for God!

And retreated, making the shoe the great love of not talking to the PTA who owed him, in response
to the ill child.

The Virgin Blue showed himself outraged by this incident that disturbed the quiet of the cloister
and the bliss of your server digests the church happy and well-fed. It was a shame Zapaterin that
this had been lodged in the Claverias with poverty and all the flock
mangy, miserable child.

Die one per month: they were going to spank their diseases. And with what law was in the cathedral
had not been paid any salary if the Obrería? Such hediondeces should stay out of the house
of the Lord. His mother was indignant.

- Hush, holy thief - he said -, silent, or I shoot a plate! We are all children of God, and
if things were right, the poor should live in the cathedral.

Ideally, in Instead of saying such things to these poor dieses them something to steal from
the Virgin.

The clerk shrugged his shoulders with contempt. Since they had to eat, that they should not children.
There he was just a daughter. Not thought entitled to more, and why, thanks Our Lady, kept a
morsel for the elderly.

Tomasa shoemaker's child spoke to the good gentlemen of the council that after the chorus stopped
a moment in the garden.

The distracted heard, plunging his hand into his cassock.

- All for God! How much misery ...!

And gave it a dime, others a real up there who came to give a quarter. The planter spent a day
at the palace of the archbishop, but Don Sebastian was with the arrechucho
and would not received, sent two pesetas with a relative.

- They
are not bad - said the gardener, giving their collections to the poor
mother - but each living for himself and for others it is fixed.

No one party and the mantle with anyone .... Take this and see how sales of the step.

Ate better in the shoemaker. The scrofulous urchins who ran through the cloister was the best
of luck with the disease of small, increasingly weak, immobilized for hours, with a faint breath on
the lap of the mother.

When he died unhappy, everyone rushed from the cloister at home.

Within rang lament of the mother, shrill, interminable, like the
howl of a wounded beast.

Outside the father wept silently, surrounded by his friends.

- He
died just as a bird - said with long pauses, cutting the words with
sobs -.

His mother was on his knees .... I worked ... "Antonio, Antonio! - I cry -; see Why has the
boy, moving his mouth, grinning. "I go. His face was blackened ...
as cover it with a veil.

He opened his mouth ... two faces, with eyes scrim, and bent his neck .... Like a bird ... same.
And cried, stubbornly repeating the resemblance between her son and
falling in winter birds cold dead.

Ringer looked gloomily at Gabriel
.-- You know everything, does not it have died of starvation?

And
Tato, his impetuosity scandalous, said loudly:

- There is no justice
in the world! This has to fix! Look to starve a child in a household
where money is flowing and so many guys wearing gold ...!

When they
took the dead child to the cemetery, it seemed that the cloister was
abandoned. All his life he re-concentrated in the house of the shoemaker.