 Seemed very worshipful,
and people were fashionable in Cadiz, all very discreet and elegant. Any of them was a poet,
or rather, everyone did verses, but bad, and I think they I heard of a certain Academy that
met to shoot at with his verses, entertainment did not hurt anyone.

As I looked around, I noticed the strange figure of the men, in their effeminate gestures and,
above all, in their costumes, which seemed extravagantísimos. There were not many people dressed
that way in Cadiz, and thinking after the dispute had among those trappings and the ordinary people
I had ever seen, I realized that was that they wore to the Spanish, and friends of Mrs. Flora
under fashion Madrid and Paris. What first caught my eye was the strangeness of their staffs,
which were a few clubs and gruesísimos twisted knots. They are not seeing the beard, because
the hid tie, sort of shawl, that making several turns around the neck and extending to the lips,
was a kind of basket, tray, or rather basin on resting face. The hair was a mess contrived,
and rather than comb it appeared that it had been seasoned with a broom, the tips of the hat touched
their shoulders, the jackets, very high-waisted, almost swept the ground with their tails,
ending in boots tip, the pockets of his waistcoat hung a multitude of charms and seals her
panties listings is attacking the knee with a huge loop, and that such figures were complete
doodles, All had a lens that during the conversation repeatedly approached the right eye, closing
the claim, although both of have very good eyesight.

The conversation dealt with those characters out of the square, alternating
with this case the relationship does not know what dance or party
that weighed a lot, being one of them subject of high praise for how
well he did with his light braids dancing legs gavotte.

Having talked a lot, went with Mrs. Flora in the Carmelite church, and there taking each his
rosary, prayed that the stripping a good amount of time, and some
of them gave me a bump on the head nicely on top, because instead
of praying so devoutly like them, pay much attention to two flies
buzzed around the loop height Dona Flora hairstyle.

We left after hearing a sermon annoying that they held a masterpiece, we walk again, continued
to talk more vividly, because we are united some ladies dressed in the same style, and among
all hell broke so noisy racket of gallantry, phrases and subtleties, mixed with some bland verse,
I can not remember.

And while my dear master martial and tried to set date and time to move permanently Aboard! And
I was exposed to stay on land, subject to the whims of that old I love gooey with its dull! Would you
believe that that night insisted that would stay forever at your
service?

Would you believe that said he loved me, and gave me some loving proof hugs and kisses, ordering me
not to tell anyone? Horrible contradictions of life!, I thought when considering how happy
would be if My mistress had treated me that way. I, embarrassed to the utmost, I said I wanted
go to the top, and when I might want to return at will, but if not let me fulfill my desire,
so much so abhor, and reached out to express a number very great abhorrence.

Then, as unexpectedly entered my master, I, judging when the time to achieve my object by starting
oratorio, who had careful preparation, I knelt before him, saying in the most pathetic tone that
if I was carrying, I would throw desperate to sea.

My master laughed at the occurrence, his cousin, by pampering his mouth, pretended to some hilarity
that disfigured his face amojamado, and finally consented. He gave me a thousand sweets to eat
on board asked me to flee from the places of danger, and said not
a word contrary my shipment, which took place the next morning early.

-IX-

October
was the month and day 18.

From this date I have no doubt, because the next day left the square. We got up early and went
to the pier where a boat awaited us brought on board.

You go figure what my astonishment, wonder what I say!, My enthusiasm,
my disposition, when I was near the Holy Trinity, the largest ship
in the world, this fortress of wood, seen from a distance that is
represented in my imagination as a factory prodigious, supernatural
only monster worthy of the majesty of the seas.

When our boat passed by a ship, I examined with some religious awe,
amazed to see such great helmets me seemed so small from the wall,
at other times seemed smaller than my imagination had wrought.

The restless excitement that possessed me exposed to fall water when he looked with rapture a
figurehead, an object more than any other fascinated my attention.

Finally we come to Trinidad. As we got closer, the forms of that colossus would increasing,
and when the boat got alongside, confused sea space where project, what horrible black and glass,
the shadow of the ship, when I saw how they sank the still grim hull, gently whipping the sides,
and when I looked and saw all three rows of cannons poking their mouths threatened by slides,
my enthusiasm was changed to fear, I went down pale and motionless stood clinging to the arm
of my master.

But as we went and found myself on deck, I enlarged the heart. The graceful and high rigging, animation
of the castle, the view of the sky and the bay, the admirable order
few objects occupied the deck, from the hammocks [4] posts in a row
on the bulwarks, to the hoists, pumps, hoses, hatches, the variety
of uniforms, all in order, I stayed in such a way that for a while
I was absorbed in contemplation of such a beautiful machine, without
thinking about anything else.

These can not take care of those magnificent ships, much less the Holy Trinidad, for the bad pictures
they have seen represented. Nor anything resembling Warriors ships today, covered with heavy
iron harness, long, monotonous blacks, and no accidents very visible in its vast, so I have
like Sometimes huge floating coffins.

Created by a positivist era, and science appropriate to nautical military these days, which means
the steam has canceled the maneuvers, trusting the success of combat power and thrust of the
ships, the ships of today are simple machines war, while those of that time were the same warrior,
full armor attack and defense, but relying primarily on their skill and courage.

Yo, I see as I see, I've always had the habit of linking to an extreme
exaggeration ideas with pictures, things with people, even of the
most inasociables categories.

Displaying calls later Gothic cathedrals of our Castile and Flanders, and noting imposing majesty
how complex and subtle highlights its factory between buildings modern taste, built by the utility,
such as banks, hospitals and barracks, no I have less to bring to mind the different kinds
of ships I've seen in my long life, and I compared the old with the Gothic cathedrals. Forms,
which extend upwards, the predominance of vertical lines on the horizontal; some inexplicable
idealism, some historical and religious at the same time, mixed with the hassle of lines and
the color scheme that combines at whim the sun, have determined the association extravagant
I explained that the trace of romanticism in the spirit leaving impressions childhood.

The Holy Trinity was a ship of four bridges. The largest in the world were of three. That Colossus
was built in Havana, with the richest woods of Cuba in 1769, was thirty and six years of honorable
service. Was 220 feet (61 meters) in length, ie aft forward, 58 feet wide (W), and 28 post (height from
keel to deck), dimensions extraordinary then had no vessel in the world. Its powerful frames
that were a real forest, sustained four floors. On its sides, which were very strong walls wood,
had opened loopholes to build 116, when reformed, fully pleasing in 1796, he opened 130, and
artillery back in 1805, was on their side when I saw him, 140 fire hydrants, through canyons
and carrion. The interior was wonderful for distribution of the various compartments, as were bridges
for artillery, plaice for the crew, storerooms for food stores, cameras for heads, kitchens,
nursing and other services. I was lost going through the galleries and other caches that Escorial seas.
The cameras were located at the stern of a small palace inside and outside a kind of fantasy
castle, the balconies, flags of the aft corners, such the headlights
of a Gothic castle, were as large cages open to the sea, and where
the eye could go three-quarters horizon.

Nothing greater than the rigging, masts those giant, launched into the sky, as a challenge
to the storm. It seemed that the wind had not have the force to push their huge loon. The view was dizzy
and lost the vast skein contemplating forming aloft in the rigging, you are, fathoms, coarse,
topping lifts and halyards that were used to hold and move the sails.

I was absorbed in the contemplation of so great, I felt a strong blow to the neck. I thought
the mast had fallen on to me. I looked dazed and threw a exclamation of horror at seeing a man
who threw me the ears as if to get up in the air. It was my uncle.

"What dost thou here, worm? - I said in the gentle tone that was common -. Want to learn the office?
Hey, John - he added to a ferocious-looking sailor - Lift me up in this turtle to the main yard
to walk around it. "

I evaded a commitment as I could walk around the yard, and explained
with the utmost courtesy that within the service of D. Cisniega Alonso
Gutierrez, had come on board with him.

Three or four sailors, friends of my nice guy, wanted to harm me, so I decided away from such
a distinguished company, and I left the camera in search of my master. Officers made his toilet,
on board no less difficult than on land, and when I saw the pages occupied in powdered heads
of the heroes who served, I wondered if that operation was the least the way in a ship where
every moment is precious and where everything always gets in the
way that is not immediate need for service.

But fashion as tyranny was then as now, and even at that time imposed a compelling way their vexatious
absurdities.

So the soldier had to use precious time to become the doublet. Poor men! I saw them lined up one
after the other, fixing each the queue in front of him, half-witted that completed the transaction
quickly.

Then helmeted fur hat, heavy mass, the object I could never explain and then go to their jobs
if they had to keep watch, or walk around the waist if they were Free service. The sailors did not
use that ridiculous hair appendix, and simple I think that suit has not changed much since then.

In
the chamber, my master spoke heatedly with the ship's commander, Don Francisco Javier de Uriarte,
and the squad leader, Don Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros. As little I heard, I had no doubt that
the French General had given orders for the morning departure.

This was delighted to Martial, who along with other old sailors on
the forecastle, discoursing grandly on the next play.

Such a society liked me more than my interest uncle, because the colleagues of the Middle-man jokes
were not permitted to me. This only difference was to understand the diverse nationalities
of the crew, and while some Purebred were sailors, taken there by hook or voluntary enrollment,
other cam were people, often lazy, unruly, of evil habits and bad knowing the trade.

With the first I had better friends than with the latter, and attended all the conferences Marcial.
If I were not afraid to tire the reader, we refer the explanation he gave of diplomatic and
political causes of war, to paraphrase the funniest way possible
what I had heard a few nights before Malespina mouth at my masters.

For he knew that groom my mistress had embarked on.

All conference ended at one point, the next battle. The fleet was
to leave the next day, what a pleasure!

Browse this gigantic ship, the largest in the world, witness a battle in the midst of the seas; see
how the battle, how to shoot guns, how preyed on enemy ships ... What a beautiful party!, And
then re-covered Cádiz glory ... All who would hear me say: "I was in the squad, I saw everything
tell ...», also my mistress, telling the grand scene, and exciting their attention, curiosity,
interest ... also say: "I found myself in the places of greatest danger, and trembled That ';
see how upset, how pale and frightened listening refer the horrors of combat, and then look down
upon all those who say 'reckon, Gabrielito, that something so awful
!...»

Oh, this was more than I needed my imagination to go wild ... Quite frankly on that day I had not
changed by Nelson.

19 dawned, it was for me very happy, and had not yet dawned when I was in the quarter-deck with
my master, who wanted to attend the maneuver.

After sluicing began operation. Large topsails hoisted, and the heavy windlass, touring with his
sharp chirp, tore the mighty anchor the bottom of the bay. The sailors were at the yards, drove
other hot coals, ready to Boatswain's voice and all voices of the ship, before silent filled
the air with frightful cries. A whistle, bell bow, the discordant concert a thousand human voices,
mingled with the creaking of blocks, the creaking of the ropes, the mop whipping the sails swell clubs
before impelled by the wind, all these varied sounds accompanied the first steps of the massive
ship.

Small waves caressing her sides, and the majestic mass began to slide across the bay without giving
the slightest nod, no swaying side with grave and solemn march, which only could be assessed
comparatively, observing the imaginary translation of merchant ships
anchored and landscape.

At the same time he looked around, and what a sight, my God, thirty-two ships, five frigates and
two brigs, between Spanish and French placed in front, behind and our side is covered with candles
and marched also impelled by the light winds. I have not seen more beautiful tomorrow. The sun
flooded the magnificent harbor light, a hint of dyed purple surface waters eastward, and the chain
of hills and distant mountains limiting the horizon to the Port were still lit by fire of past
dawn, the clear sky just had some red and gold clouds on the east; the blue sea was calm, and
on the sea and under that sky forty candles, with their White sails,
undertook the march, the most visible form squad that can occur to
human eyes.

They were not all ships with the same step. Some came forward, others were slow to move; spend
some with us, while he who stayed behind.

Slow his departure, and the height of your rig, canvas covered, some mysterious harmony that
my ears perceived child out of the glorious helmets, kind of anthem that undoubtedly resonated within
myself, the light of day, the fresh air, the beauty of the sea, outside the bay seemed to stir
with gentle joy to the approximation of the fleet were the most impressive box imaginable.

Cadiz, therefore, as a rotating panorama is foreshortened by presenting our view on the various
facets of its vast circuit. The sun, lighting the windows of his thousand viewpoints, splashed
the city with gold dust, and white mole stood out as clean and pure on water, which seemed to
have been created at the time, or taken from the sea and the fantastic City of San Gennaro. Saw
the development of the wall from the dock to the castle of Santa
Catherine Bonnet recognized bulwark, a bulwark of Orejón, Cove, and
I was filled with pride considering where it came from and where I
was.

At the same time reached my ears as the mysterious music of the bells of the city half awake,
playing to mass, with the chattering din of the bells of a great people. And expressing joy, as
a greeting of good trip, and I heard the rumor that if of human voices that give us the farewell,
and I seemed to announce to sound sad and upset a disgrace, and as we drove away, the music was
fading until it was extinguished widespread in the vast space.

The squad came out slowly, some boats spent many hours to be outside. Martial during departure,
was making comments on each ship, watching the march, nicknamed if they were heavy, encouraging
them with fatherly advice if they were lighter and set sail soon. "What Heavy is D. Federico! -
Said watching the Prince of Asturias, commanded by Gravina -. There goes Mr. Horn - exclaimed
looking at Bucentaur, general ship -.

Well haiga who you Ray began - ironically said looking at the ship of this name, which was the
heaviest of all Well ...-- squad for Dad Ignacio - added contact the Santa Ana, who rode Álava
-. Check all the topsail piece of dolphin - watching the ship said Dumanoir -; this gringo
has a hairdresser to curl the topsail, and loads of candles with tongs. "

The sky is clouded in the afternoon, and dusk was already a great
distance, we saw Cadiz gradually lost in the fog, until it mingled
with the ink of night his final contours.

The squad took southbound.

At night I left him, once I left my master very well ensconced in his cabin. Surrounded by two
colleagues and admirers, he explained the plan of Villeneuve as follows:

"Mr. Cornet has divided the squad into four bodies. The vanguard, which is commanded by Álava
has seven vessels, the center, which has seven and sends Mr. Horn in person, the rear also seven,
which is commanded by Dumanoir, and the reserve corps, composed of twelve ships, that sends Don
Federico

.