 For the first time was to get away from my country for some years, ... perhaps forever! Honda
with its sublime debris, broken tombs of ancient opulence - their jumpers and noisy river, foaming
cataracts, - its tall palm trees woven into floating pavilions, - its lush evergreen trees that bathe in the
waves and abundant curly hair, - her steep hills and amphitheaters, of eternal solitude, and whose
high plains of emerald grasses swaying in the summer the sturdy hurricanes - Honda, Queen dethroned
shadow his distant splendor appeared to my eyes with his blue blanket and covered ruins, stray
sadder and more beautiful than ever. Jerusalem dark poem of my youth, left between its hills and forests
as a shrine revered memories. The mother received a bye the son traveler, my mind understood it
better than ever!

Leaving the homeland this fact alone poses a whole drama to the heart! What time that solemn,
recollection for the traveler's soul, hope and fear deep supreme!

Leaving the sandy beach where his deep breaks the majestic Magdalena, parting thought of an
immense treasure. There were: the grave of my father, family traditions, ash Home, sweet memories,
and the mad whims of young love, friends fortune, freedom, air, sky, the thousand vague rumors
and confusion, and all that lovely set of impressions and dreams, regrets and memories, misfortunes
and such, which is called the Fatherland ... All that was left behind, and buried in a cemetery
whose cover was a Honda! What future? ... The vague and unknown - infinite and marvelous -
that touches the heart in his dreams of hope, and that doubt covered with its shadow when the traveler
says: Who knows?

       * * * * *

Honda is an old city, Spanish entirely by their construction, but looks so Whimsical and colorful
that reaches the proportions of romance. The Magdalena River, the great artery of commerce
in New Granada, after having brought in some leagues the direction of SE to west, suddenly lost
its gentleness, is narrowed between high rocks of two parallel ridges, and twisting is released
directly north by between rapids stony, crowned with foam, roaring like the great bulk of a
waterfall, and as tired for this decrease storm, goes to it rested, a league below, gently licking
wide Bodega beaches. A plain four miles, interrupted by some woods and hills; picturesque and
luxurious vegetation, coming from the ruined town of Mariquita (the tomb of conqueror Quesada),
at the foot of the central cordillera of the Andes, and ends on the edge Magdalena left, overlooking
the rough rapids which the natives call the waterfall. The exquisite Guali river, blue, diver, sparkling
like a torrent, and orrilado by rich woods, limits the plains to the north, and running O.
to E. come clean and give him his tribute to Magdalena divided into two parts Honda City, while 400
meters above a beautiful stream flows as well, cutting the main harbor beach.