 If you wanted, you no longer
I! A burst of grief! ... Christ! Paece lie that I'm dead yet! ...

They were silent for a long time.

Absorbed in his thoughts, no longer heard the noise of the fun, feminine
voice that was singing songs.

- Fermin - suddenly said the overseer
.-- You're the only thing that could occur to fix everything.

This is why he had waited out the desktop. He knew his great influence on family. Maria de la
Luz respected him more than his father, and became languages ??of their wisdom.

Education in England, and the praise of the foreman, who saw his son
intelligence almost as big as his teacher, influenced the girl, eating
in your brotherly kindness a great deal of admiration.

Rafael did not dare to speak the godfather: he was afraid. But Fermin was waiting around,
and trusted him.

- What you tell him to do, that will ... Ferminillo, do not forsake
me, protect me.

You are my employer, I would like to get in and go on an altar candles
and pray to a litany.

Fermin darling me: do not leave me, save me. Soft rock that, in heart, catch me, because otherwise
I and I fall to prison or the madhouse.

Montenegro exaggerations mocked the whimpering of his friend.

- Okay, man, do what you can, but do not weep, nor let go of those prayers, you look like Don
Pablo, my principal, when spoken of God.

Mariquita see: I'll tell him you: I'll tell the very indina what they deserve. What, are you
happy now? ...

Rafael cleaned the tears, and smiled with childlike simplicity, showing
his teeth square of crisp white.

But his joy was impatient. When thinking Fermín see Mariquita?

- Men, tomorrow. On the desktop we are very busy in the year-end settlement. English accounts
give me too busy.

The strapping young man made a gesture of annoyance.

Tomorrow! ... One more night of no sleep, to mourn misfortune, of cruel uncertainty, not knowing
whether to expect anything.

Montenegro laughed at the sadness of the overseer. But how to put the love of mankind! Daba
desire with the rod tip to that young man, like an overgrown child and angry.

- No, Fermin, and I ask you Sallu. Do something for me, see at once and you will draw a soul
with grief. Nothing you say on the desktop: the gentlemen you want,
you spoil your child.

And he besieged with pleas burning, with caressing words, to be at
once sighted with his sister.

Montenegro yielded, overcome by anxiety fine fellow. That would Marchamalo same evening, lie
the head of the desk saying that her father was ill. Don Ramon was
good and would turn a blind eye.

The impatient Rafael then told that they were shorter than the evening of January and the need take
advantage of the time.

Fermín called the servant, who missed the paucity of the two friends, inviting them to ask for
more. Everything was paid! Don Luis had an open mind! ...

Leaving Rafael, went directly to the street, fearing that the master
could see him with his eyes red.

Fermín poked his head into the room of revelry, and after accepting a glass of Dupont fled
from it, trying to catch him by the lapels, for her to stay.

Before the afternoon was Marchamalo Fermin.

Rafael took him on the rump of his horse. His impatience made him twitch his heels, spurring
the animal.

- Are you going to pop it, great! - Shouted Montenegro, sticking his chest to the back of the
rider .-- That weigh much both!

...

But Rafael only thought about the next interview.

- In the very carriage of St. Elias would I take, Ferminillo for you to see before the cunt.

They
stopped at the tavern on the road near the vineyard.

- Do you want
to wait? - Said the overseer .-- I will gladly wait here until the
day of Judgement.

I felt impatient to know the resolution of the girl. But Fermin did not want wait for him. Planned
to spend the night in the vineyard. He continued the march on foot, while Raphael was announced
to voices that would come to fetch the next day.

When Mr. Fermin saw the arrival of her son, she asked anxiously if
anything happened Jerez.

"Nothing, Father." He came to spend the night with the family as on the desktop had given permission
for lack of work.

The old appreciated the visit, but without discarding had expressed concern that the arrival of
his son.

- I thought, to see that something bad happened in Jerez, but still
nothing happens, will happen soon.

Yo, from here, I know everything, never missing a friend of the other wineries that brings me blow
what they think the strikers. Furthermore, in the tavern repeat what they hear on carriers
ranches.

And the foreman told his son of a meeting that the workers were to be held on Next on the plains
of Caulin. Nobody knew who gave the orders, but the call had circulated by word of mouth through
the countryside and the mountains, and would join thousands of men,
coming up to the limits of the province of Malaga, all the wages they
earned in the Jerez countryside.

- A true revolution, son.

Come in all this a stranger, a boy called the Madrid, speaking of
killing the rich and share the treasures of the city.

People seems crazy, everyone thinks that tomorrow will succeed and
that was just misery.

The Madrid uses the name of Salvatierra, as works by his orders, and many say, as if have seen,
that Don Fernando is hidden in Jerez and presented at the time of
revolution.

What do you know this? ...

Fermín shook his head in disbelief. Salvatierra had written some days before without state intentions
to return to Jerez. Doubted that was true travel. In addition, we seemed unlikely this attempt
at revolt.

It would be an alarm over the many invented of the desperation of the hungry. Amounted to an attempt
madness invasion City troops being there.

- I see you, Father, how are met in Caulin, everything is reduced to shouting and threats, and at
meetings in the ranch.

And Don Fernando, do not pass you off. I have the conviction you are in Madrid. It is not so
foolish as to go to engage in crazy like this.

- I myself believe,
son, but about what might happen tomorrow seeks you mix with those
crazy, if you enter the city.

Fermín looked around, eyes searching for her sister. Finally Mary left the house Light, smiling at
his Fermín, welcoming his visit with exclamations of joyful surprise.

The boy looked at her intently. Nothing! Not to talk to Rafael, I could not guess sadness those
who had cut his loves.

It was more than an hour without being able to speak alone with his sister. In the stares Fermin
seemed to guess the girl some of his thoughts. It aims to show impassive but his face, as soon
paled with the transparency of the wax, as flushed with a rush of blood.

Mr. Fermín down the slope of the vineyard, going to meet some carriers passing down the road. His
keen eye of a peasant were recognized from above. They were friends, and wanted They know
what they were talking on the ranches of the meeting the next day.

When left alone the two brothers, their eyes met in the middle of
an awkward silence.

- I have to talk, Mariquita - at last the boy
said with determination.

- Then start anytime, Fermín - she answered
.-- I guessed quiet accent to see that something was coming.

- No,
not here.

Father could return, and what we have to talk takes time and quiet.
Let's take a walk.

And the two set off down the hill, down the slope opposite the highway. Down and between strains
on the back of the tower, going to a limiting line cacti the great
vineyard on this side.

Maria de la Luz tried to stop several times not wanting to go that far. Wished to speak regarding
prior to exit from its agonizing uncertainty.

But the brother was reluctant to start the conversation pisasen while the land under the supervision
of his father.

They stopped at the fence of prickly pears, along with a wide gap revealed a copudo olive grove
after which the sun descending branches.

Fermin had his sister to sit on the bank, and planting himself before her, said sweet smile
to encourage her to trust:

- Let's see, Loquillo: you tell me why you broke with Rafael, why
did you fired like a dog, causing her such pain that the poor seems
to be dying.

Maria de la Luz seemed to take a joke issue, but was pale and his smile was the tension a sad face.

-
Because I love him, because I cansao him, ea! It is a dull boring me. Am I not owner to want a
man like me? ...

Fermin spoke like a rebellious child.

I was lying: he was known in his face. Could not hide that still loved Rafael. There was something
in everything that he knew needed for the good of the bride and groom,
to put back together.

This Boredom Lie! Lie bully that girl power that was expressed to justify breaking Mariquita Rafael!
She was not bad, it could not deal with such cruelty to her old boyfriend. What! Is that how
you break a love affair started almost as a child?

So farewell to a man after to have had it for years and years, as it were, sewn skirts? There
was something his conduct could not be explained, and it was necessary that she be told. Was
not his brother unique and the best of friends?

Do not tell him all the things you did not dare say father, by the respect he inspired in him?
...

But she was insensitive to caressing and persuasive tone of his brother.

- There is nothing of that - said firmly, craning his chest as if to rise .-- All are your
own inventions. No more, I'm tired of dating, I have no man, I spend my life with father and
you. Who better than you? Gone the bride and groom!

The brother greeted these words with a gesture of disbelief.

Lying again! Why soon tired of the man he had wanted? What causes powerful had broken so quickly
love? ... Mariquita Ah! He was not so stupid to swallow an apology
unmeaning.

And as the girl, to hide his embarrassment lifted his voice, repeating
strongly owned their will and could do whatever was to their liking,
Fermin began to chafe.

- Ah, young lady fake!

Alma hard! Heart song! Do you think a man is left when one you think, after having entertained
for years at the gate, maddened groups with little words, saying
that he wants more than life?

For much less them advantage of some the heart of a stab ... Shout: repeats that do what you
please: I think in that unhappy, while you talk like a drag, the poor guy walks there actually
a shame, crying like a child, even though the man is man entire field of Jerez. And that for you
... For you, that you behave worse than a gypsy!

For you vane! ...

Exalting impulses of his anger, he spoke of the sadness of Rafael,
the weeping gesture that had implored his aid, the anguish awaiting
the outcome of mediation.

But he could not talk anymore.

Maria de la Luz, passing suddenly from resistance to discouragement began to mourn, increasing
their groans and tears as the story progressed Fermín of the desperation
loving boyfriend.

- Oh, poor baby! - Wailed the girl, forgetting
all pretense .-- Oh, my Rafael my gun!

...

Softened the voice of the brother.

- I want, do not you see? you want. Tell what you yourself. Why make him suffer? Why that stubbornness,
that he makes you desperate and you mourn?

And boy, leaning on her sister wrapped her in their prayers or shoulders
pushed violently, sensing the gravity of the secret that he hid Ladybug
all trance want to know.

The girl was silent. Listening to his brother groaned as if each of his words penetrated in his
soul, twitching with the pain of torn wounds, but did not open his mouth feared saying too much
and just crying, wailing populated by the silence of the afternoon.

- Talk - shouting imperiously Fermín .-- Say something. You want to Rafael, you may want more
than before. Why do you separate yourself from it? Why do you say goodbye? This is what interests
me, your Silence scares me. Why? Why? Speak, woman, speak, or I'll kill you.

And rudely pushed Maria de la Luz, which, like I could not stand up under the weight of emotion,
was lying in the ditch, his face in his hands.

Began to sunset. You could see the cherry colored disk, behind the branches of olive, and the
black through a lattice. Its last rays, flush with ground, heat with an orange glow the colonnade
of trunks of olive trees, tangles of plants land, the curves of the
body of the girl lying on the ground.

The poignant film erizábase prickly pears as a light skin.

- Speak, Ladybug - Fermin's voice roared .-- Say why you do that.

Say it for your life! Mira you drive me crazy! Tell your brother, your Fermín!

The girl's voice went dim, murky, distant, of that lump lying.

- Do not want ... because I love him very much. I can not love him,
because I love him too much to unhappy.

And with these words as if nerving confusing, Mariquita stood, staring Fermin with his eyes filled
with tears.

Could beat her, could kill her, but she would never speak to Rafael. He had vowed that if considered
unworthy of him, abandon him, although it destroyed her soul. It was a crime rewarding love so intense
that their future existence by introducing something that might insult Raphael, so good, so noble,
so loving.

There was a long silence.

The sun had disappeared.

Now the black olive branches stand out against a sky violet color with a light gold stripe
single horizon.

Fermin was silent, as if terrified by the contact of the mysterious truth, whose touch and feel
believed.

- According to that - he said with a solemn calm - you consider yourself unworthy of Rafael. Flee
because there is something in your life that can be embarrassing,
make you unhappy.

- Yes - she said without lowering his eyes.

-
What is it?

Talk: I believe that a brother should know.

Maria de la Luz went back to hide his head between his hands. Never: Do not speak, had enough
said. It was a torment beyond his strength. If Fermin wanted some, should respect his silence,
let alone that he needed fed. And the rattle of their tears, torn from again the calm of twilight.

Montenegro
showed himself as despondent as his sister. After his outbursts of anger, he felt weak, softened,
humbled by the mystery, that only he could descry.

He spoke softly, with humility, reminding the young the close affection which united their
lives.

They had not met his mother and held for small Fermín the void left
by the death that woman, whose face, kind and sad, barely remembered.

How many times, at the age other guys are sleeping in a warm lap, had a mother for her, rocking
dead of sleep, their cries and suffering manotones? How many times in the days of misery, when
the father was unemployed, had suppressed their hunger to give it
the scraps that would give him other children, peers of their games?

... When she suffered childhood diseases, his brother, who just passed
the head of the edge of the bed, had watched, had stayed with her
without fear of infection.

They were more than brothers, half of his life had been spent together, in touch from the feet
to the front, mixing their breath, their sweat confusing. Each of them did not know what in
his or her body was treated as the other.

Then, when older, this brotherly love soldier by the pain of a sad childhood, had widened. He did
not intend to marry, as if his mission in the world was living at next to his sister, seeing
happy with a good and noble man as Rafael, devoting all his life to the children she had ... To
not keep secrets Fermín Mariquita. Ran him, in moments of doubt, rather than the father ... And
now, the ungrateful, as if suddenly harden your heart, let him suffer impassive, without revealing
the mystery of your life!

- Ah, poor heart! Bad sister!

... And how little I knew!

These reproaches Fermin said breathlessly, as if to mourn, caused more María effect that the
threats and violence before.

- Fermin ... would be dumb to not suffer,
because I know the truth will hurt.

Ay, My Jesus! Breaking my soul to the two men most want! ...

But as the brother demanded, it was hoped, and was what God wanted ... Was upright again and
spoke, without a gesture, without moving only his lips, staring on the horizon, as if in a dream
and tells the story of another person.

Fermin began to get dark and it seemed that all the shadows of twilight
it ran into Skull, clouding his mind, numbed with pain or drowsiness.

Intense cold and chilling, a cold grave, clawing his back.

It was the light breeze of the night, but Fermin seemed like a wind of ice, an ice tornado coming
from the pole for him, just for him.

Maria de la Luz was talking impassive, as if recounts the misery of another woman. Its words
evoked images quick thinking brother.

All I saw Fermin: drunkenness general of the last night of the harvest, the intoxication of
the girl, its collapse as a body inert in the corner of the vats,
and after the arrival of the gentleman to take advantage of the fall.

-
The wine!

The Cursed wine! - Said Maria de la Luz with an expression of anger, causing the liquid Golden
responsible for his misfortune.

- Yes, the wine - repeated Fermín.

And with the thought evoked Salvatierra, recalling his anathema to the evil deity regulating all actions
and affections of a people enslaved by it.

Then her sister's words made him see the awful awakening to fade the
sad delusion of drunkenness, outrage that repelled a man she did not
love, and he still seemed more unpleasant after his easy victory.

It was all over for Maria de la Luz.

Tired evidenced by the strength of his words. And could not be the man she loved. Should appear
cruel, pretending indifference, to make him suffer as a frivolous girl, rather than tell the truth.

She
prevailed in the female common concern that confuses love with virginity
physics.

A woman could only be the wife of the man they carry as a tribute of submission, the integrity
of his body.

She should be like her mother, like all good women knew. The virginity of the flesh was as important
as love, and when we lost, but was by chance, without any will, had to resign, bending his head,
saying goodbye to this and follow the path of life alone and sad,
while the unhappy lover away On the other hand looking for a new ballot
box closed and unbroken love.

Maria de la Luz For evil was irremediable. Rafael loved, the boy's despair increased his enthusiasm,
but never speak to him again. Was resigned to the fact that they had by cruel trick man rather
than loved.

Fermín What did this? Should not it repel her boyfriend, but it's shattered soul? ...

Fermin was silent, his beard in the chest and eyes closed, with immobility death. He looked like a
walking corpse. Suddenly, awakened the human beast rears and roars
to misfortune.

- Ah, outcast bitch! - Roared .-- Bad skin! ¡....!

And
the supreme insult to women's virtue out of his mouth shot Maria de
la Luz. Stepped forward, looking lost and fists. The girl, as if the
painful revelation had sunk into insensibility of idiots, not close
their eyes, not stirred head to avoid the blow.

Fermin's hand without
touching it fell again. It was a flash of ferocity, nothing more.
Montenegro recognized no right to punish his sister. In the mists
of blood color passed before his eyes, thought he saw the bright blue
glasses Salvatierra, cold smile of great goodness. What would the
teacher be there? ... Forgive, undoubtedly, to enfold the victim in
the boundless compassion that inspired the sins of the weak. In addition,
there was the wine as the main culprit: the golden poison, the devil
of amber, spreading its perfume madness and crime.

Fermin was silent
a long time.

- From all of this - he said at last - not a word to
the father. The old man would die.

Sissy nodded in assent.

- If
you were to Rafael - continued - not a word either. I know him: the
poor boy go to prison because of you.

The warning was useless. To
avoid the revenge of Raphael, had lied to her, pretending their cruel
diversions.

Fermin went on grimly, but urgently, without admitting
reply. She Louis Dupont marry ... What you hated? What had fled from
him after that night horrible? ... As this was the only solution.
With the honor of his family played no sir impunity. If you do not
want to love, tolerate him for duty. The same Luis would get it, to
ask for her hand.

- I hate you! I hate! - Ladybug said .-- Do not
come! I do not want to see you! ...

But their protests were dashed
to the firmness of his brother. She could send in their affections,
but was above the honor of his home. Be single, hiding their shame,
with the sad consolation of not having deceived Rafael, could satisfy.
But what about him was his brother? How could I live, looking at all
hours to Luis Dupont, without demanding compensation for their outrage,
thinking that the gentleman was laughing inside of his achievement,
to face him? ...

- Shut up, Mariquita - said harshly .-- A silent
and be obedient. Because as a woman has no able to keep you, let your
brother defend the family honor.

Had closed the night and the two
brothers launched uphill return home. It was a slow climb, painful
legs were trembling, ringing in the ears, panting her breasts, as
if a huge weight will crush them. Carrying on their shoulders he seemed
dead giant, which had to weigh on the rest of his life.

The brothers
had a bad night. During the evening suffered the torment of having
to smile the poor father, to continue their conversation about the
events that were preparing for the next day Fermin to express their
views on the assembly of the rebels in the plains of Caulin.

The
young man could not sleep. Guessed, the other side of the septum,
the Ladybird insomnia; heard continued revolver from his body on the
bed, burst into sighs painful.

Shortly after dawn, Fermín Marchamalo
left, addressing without saying goodbye to his Jerez family. Going
down the road, the first thing he saw was a tavern next to Rafael,
on his horse, standing in the middle of the road, like a centaur.

-
When you come so soon, something that ties Bueno dicirme - said the
tall boy with a confidence Fermin candida it almost brought tears
.-- Drops by that mouth, Ferminillo dear, what results from the study
bring your embassy? ...

Montenegro had to make a violent effort to
lie, hiding with his vague words embarrassment.

The case was going
so well, not too bad. Could rest assured: women's whim without foundation.
The insist that everything is fixed. What mattered was that Mariquita
I wanted the same as before. Could be sure of this.

Which face of
angel, radiant and joyful, that of the tall boy! ...

- Anda, Ferminillo:
climb on the haunches, room! Funny! I'm going to carry Jerez a tell
Jesus. You have more talent and labia, and more that in his head that
the abogaos toos Caiz together, Seville and even Madrí ... If I know
what I grab when latch I looked for my child! ...

The pony was galloping,
spurred by the overseer. He needed to run, sucking air violence, sing
for joy to output, while Fermin behind him, almost crying, innocent
joy of watching, listening to the songs you spent on the skirt, as
if it was again for you, thanks to brother