 Where legitimate, and casting aside the evil passion of envy,
being rich means and must mean that whoever is worth more than who is poor. In short, the
money is and has to be the proper measure of worth of a person.

Certainly there are some rare virtues and tops the money, do not bring money, and, at the time
that they had or exercised to acquire money, leave be such virtues, but those virtues have their
price in themselves. The virtue Excellence is so precious, that there is nothing on earth
can afford. For this I have found always ridiculous prize offered every virtue. Who are put to be
virtuous to win the award would not be virtuous. Tend to make even the virtue of fame and respect
men, it is difficult to ascertain whether it is virtuous firmness and rectitude soul or timidity,
stupidity or cowardice, and men, as virtue is not very evident, we always try to attribute
those negative qualities. So, in almost all languages ancient and modern, the word good, apart from
its direct sense, means simplicity, as dabbenaggine in Italian, euetheia in Greek, French bonhomie,
etc., etc. But as virtue is and must also be superior to the pride, the virtuoso, not only must
be even in exchange for being poor, but in exchange for passing a solemn fool.

Certain declamations and diatribes against vice, corruption and luxury,
I found always more characteristic of envy or stupidity that a right
spirit and judicious.

When it is said, for example, a good man is cornered and unattended and live poorly and this
rascal lives in a palace and gives lavish parties, the honest woman walking on foot for those
Street, filled with mud, and this is mistress in silks, lace and jewels, a magnificent car;
when it is said, again, I can not laugh at least once to move me. Why, do you probity wants to
be paid with palaces, and chastity with diamonds and trains? Then the biggest rascal would become
honest to live with the prince, and would throw quiff the trip to Lucrecia and Susan, to achieve
by this means that the opposite able now. The truth is that the world is less evil than believed.