 Ago century
no one had offered him this rogue scruples to me is being offered now. Then the generality
of mortals thought they knew fully what was money, and nobody saw or the possibility of doubt
on this point were born, misunderstandings, or disputes. Today, Political Economy, is another
matter. Huge volumes have been written to explain what money and what is not. No doubt all those
truths, blatant, simple and be obvious that the interests of powerful men or cunning has had
some hard times to conceal or misrepresent, have been concealed or distorted because it has always
been infinite number of papar in the world. Of these truths, those relating to money, capital
or wealth, are those that have offered more encouragement to these misrepresentations and deception;
but though I can not deny that economists, that place, so to speak, definitely clear these truths,
they do a great service to the public, can not be denied either that the Most of these truths
are what are known as Pero-Grullo. For those who ignored joke made by some men of the credulity
of his fellows is not conceivable, for example, that a wise economist half took seriously use
reading to demonstrate that Money is not a mere token representative of the wealth, but it has
and must have a value itself, that a penny, not only represents the value of anything that is
worth a penny, but it's worth and should be worth the same as anything worth a dime, and four
real things that are worth to each and thirty-four things that are worth a quarter. Still farrago
have spent more economists to show another truth, which is most unlikely nobody has ever doubted,
and whose proof seems absurd to those who are not initiated the mysteries of political economy,
nobody is busy with formality. Is this true that money is not all the wealth, but a part of wealth.
Who has ever been able fit in the brain that is not rich when he has no money, and has wheat, olive
groves, vineyards, houses, fine furniture, jewelry, textiles, etc..? If all these objects mentally
reduced to money, the rate appreciates and find that it is a treasure, for example, two million
reais. But in making the appraisal, merely to determine the exact value he has, by adopting
a common measure, which is money. If instead of the real, the shields or ESP, as the oxen were,
we would say that this owner had a land worth five hundred oxen, and such employee a salary of twenty
oxen a year. The advantage gold or silver coin minted for the foregoing clearly apparent.
Blessed and praise be to God who has given birth at a time when everything is ascertained and
explained so cute! An ox is not very portable, it fits in your pocket, does not happen in all
markets spent on food and can die, and the money or eat or die. In addition an ox may be fatter
or skinnier, smaller or larger, older or younger, while a shield is always a shield, enjoys
eternal youth, and has or should have the same weight and the same law.

This is the great advantage enjoyed by this science. It is so clear, so pedestrian and so simple,
children of the doctrine could understand if they wanted. And yet (something, incidentally admirable!),
just take a step from ground so firm and sure, and from place usually
so clear economists fall into a bottomless sea or within cimeriana
dark night.

Economy Politics goes to escape, jumping from the truism to the sophistry with prodigious agility.

In
the same issue of whether the precious metals, gold and silver are better than oxen for currency,
unforeseen difficulties and contradictions occur. Sample serves as : If the debt that the Spanish
government has made and continues to contract is estimated at oxen could not be lower by 5 100
in one-twentieth, except that the seven lean breed of Pharaoh's dream
and fill the world infinitely all of oxen cacoquimios and emaciated,
but debt estimated PTA has made the cut with softness of a feather,
and almost without anyone realizing it.

Oxen, man with large, unless the lean children, would always be oxen, but the new ESP not
like the old, and the day that the minting of new currency is completed, we ensure that instead
of duty, for example, 20,000 million reais, we 19,000, not be that alteration of the currency
does not pray with the creditors of the State, and they continue to pay interests under the
old law.

But leaving aside this issue, stating that while here we use the word money within the meaning of
capital or wealth, we perfectly the distinction of these things, and have made all men of all
ages, no need for economists indoctrinate. The reason we call money at all wealth is that money is
wealth without which you can not pass. Money is also a value that flows more easily all other
values, and represents and measured. Money is not all wealth, but the moving, and more circulating
liquid wealth.

Blood is not all life on the body, and yet not live if the blood does not circulate throughout
the blood or if we escape, although not completely accurate comparison, because there is no
comparison completely accurate. There is nothing in the body that can replace the blood, but
there is something in society that can replace money, and this something is credit, which
does not create an atom over wealth, but put into circulation and provides mobility and near ubiquity
and much of the wealth that stands and inert. In short, the money, but replaceable credit is part
of wealth, and so this as being the most lively, more energetic and more circulating is a pain
to lose. The company has no money, or the guy who has no money, already Aviados. After many
studies have inferred therefore that the money economists is indispensable to man from the moment that
man lives in society, acute above, whose truth shines brighter than the midday light.

II.

Sitting and these bases, I philosophize and a little discourse on the relationship of money (And
generally of all wealth) with the customs and the highest powers of mind human. Begin to combat
some errors.

The first and most capital is to believe that in our days, is money
dearer at other times.

Nothing more false.

On this day, men are as always, but if some alteration has occurred, has been favorable. You can
almost say that men have more generous.

Easy I would build here a multitude of historical examples, from the remotest ages so far, to
prove that the interest has dominated the world since then, and his empire far from increasing,
fell. I would not, however, make a scholarly work but a meditation philosophical.

The satirical poets, novelists, authors of comedies of all past centuries have shown that at the
time in which they lived was estimated more money than this. While these sayings, ancient remains
of what is called wisdom, come in support of what I say .-- For money the dog dances .-- Cobra
and do not pay, that we are mortal gifts .-- Ten .-- soften rocks
money, yours or someone else .-- Whoever has money, looks tambourines
.-- And so could I keep citing to fill a print sheet.

But still I will quote another saying that, Spain is a very Catholic country, should be regarded
as the most rising hyperbole all is done with money that everything is bought and sold, even the
most venerable and holy. The saying says: For my money, Dad I love him.

In countries with a backward culture, we see a phenomenon which, as we get civilized and a little
more polishing, wanes, and that does not disappear completely. Is this phenomenon disgrace,
discredited, the strong suspicion, and even the horror that surrounds him that is poor, which
is hated, when it is neglected. The old Spanish proverb states that the money is the whole man:
that is, that money is guaranteed straight, probity and integrity
in whom you have.

Further away is yet another proverb: Poverty is not shame, but bouquet of spice. Our immortal Cervantes,
echoing the general sentiment, he says, not once, it is difficult for a poor to be honest.

Well you can bet that no one would think, in our century, San Jose excuse have been a carpenter,
and assume that tickets had three or mortgage.

Neither by the blood nobility apologized poverty before having money has been in all Source century
nobility. Monies are quality, the din is better than the gift, are
sayings corroborate my assertion.

The deep reverence that inspire the money and who has always been identical. The has declined
somewhat is the horror or contempt for the poor, and some pitfalls that must be rich in old,
perpetually surrounded.

Prudent and discreet man was, not many years ago, everywhere, and the day has even, on many,
to do if you can, a great mystery of the state of their finances, especially if it is or was
very rich or very Poor: If you are very poor, so you will not despise, and if it is very rich,
so you will not steal or kill him. Here in this awful dilemma of being dismissed or threatened
with death born that sentence of moralists, that civilized countries today seems so stupid
and so absurd that I had that desire was a mediocrity of fortune, to live happily and quiet,
not envious or envied. Because, in truth, if money is a good while greater good, should be more
palatable, and not conceived the golden mediocritas held by Horace and other poets of all times,
but remembering that the wealthy man was continuously exposed to kill or mistreat him to steal,
and the emperor or Prince under whose rule he lived, and greedy mob. And when wealth was not annexed
a high degree of power was a constant danger, and almost impossible to conjure. I do not think
I hate that deep that we had in the Middle Ages the Jews were just coming deicide people, but
they were rich. The frequent killings of Jews that occurred in Spain perhaps they had not
come to fruition, if the Jews had been careful to stay poor. Something similar can be said of
the monks in recent days, after they lost retained the power and wealth, while the scandal
has been lower because the sweetness of customs, the greater abundance of money and wellness,
and more concerted and political way of life of men, have diminished the hatred of those who do
not have that have.

Proof of this confidence about them is that now, in civilized countries, nobody or almost nobody
treasures. A few years ago, all that were treasured. Popular literature is full of stories and
legends of hidden treasures, guarded by a dragon, a giant or a monster terrible, nothing less
was needed so as not to steal.

These treasures were, or were supposed to, so cleverly hidden that it was necessary to discover
a supernatural gift. From here originated the idea of ??the wizards, who discovered the treasures.
The science of dowsing, now losing its poetic nature and superhuman, has come to be transformed into
the Statistical auxiliary discipline of political economy, with respect to which, it becomes
what is Anatomy in relation to physiology. Statistics is a true delicacy of science, and so that it will
soon form the uninitiated the concept that it deserves, we can define Science tells us snacks. For
this science finds out how much flour, how much meat, how many beans and chickpeas are devouring
a year than is spent on clothing and footwear; what is produced and consumed. All this would
be easier to figure out if people fearful that the Government would impose a greater contribution,
not disguise a little spent, pretending to be even worse treatment than is generally.

However, the desire to conceal and disguise the wealth that you have some money has gone almost
everything in our age. In the past was thus a danger that the money ran out to light, which
had to be legitimately usurer who lent him. The credit, which puts moving the productive forces,
was hardly known then.

Today, however, the ease, mobility, coordination of money, which is presented without fear everywhere
except in Spain, which is agitated and flows, makes believe thinkers little men who live in
a metallic century: now is not intended or it speaks only of money.

What a mistake so gross! Well, by chance, most revered, most adored the image that comes through
the streets and squares, even when very devout procession, and bending everyone in their path
the knee, the divinity itself, always hidden in the back of the sanctuary, for fear that the
vulgar profane with their looks, and even whose name is incommunicable and unknown to those not initiated
into its mysteries?

There are also many other reasons that the day is considered less money. It is the first there's
more. It is the second, which comes more easily credit to all parties.

It is the third that produces less interest. (None of these reasons militate in Spain today. Economists
explain why.) is the fourth, and perhaps the most powerful, that our century, as more civilized than
previous ones, is also more spiritual.

And here I can not help stopping to condemn the ridiculous habit of
giving in charge of materialistic century.

What century spiritualist was never more than ours? Music is the most spiritual of all art
and flowers now flourish extraordinary. Just no fool, who, if he had lived two or three centuries
ago, not having received more than eating, not now enjoy, or at least do not say that enjoys
listening to music wiser and convoluted. Juan Ruiz, Archpriest of Hita, says there are only two
essential things that move man: namely: Inspection and maintenance, and one that I would not dare
to lie, although the tool Archpriest, shielded with Aristotle

If dixiese of mine, would be to blame; Grand philosopher said to him,
not me to crawl.

    
    

So was the concept materialistic in the fourteenth century was a Catholic priest in the Catholic Spain,
the mobile core of human action! Out of these phones did not succeed to discover other mobile.
How things have changed in the day! The music also moves and no man who does not like going
to the Royal Theatre.

But the spirituality of our century is synthetic, and this is the reason that some, do not understand
him, accused of materialistic century. In the past, or if there was no matter and left it at
home as something lost and given to the devil, falling which that were in the mill, or was abused
and punished as rebellious subjects where people came to take in the most cruel asceticism. In our time
trying to rehabilitate people matter, in the best sense of the word, and purify it as they can.
The matter at last is God's work, and although some perverted by sin, is not something as abominable
as says. At last she has been resurrected and go to heaven, but transfigured and glorious.
So bad that I do not go polishing, perfecting, beautiful and subtilized in this world. To polish
usually men, in some developed countries, wash and all day, custom rare if not unknown in Christendom,
a hundred or two hundred years does, and against which even the pious fulminate anathemas Mr.
Veuillot and other holy fathers. So not quite understand the significance of the principle of that
ode of Pindar: High Don is water. Rather, water was regarded with horror and fear, to cause
the greatest evils, especially for people of a certain age. Hence the saying hydrophobic as
accredited: Of forty up, or get married, or you embark, or get wet belly. A man of seventy, when
or where there was, or has not fallen into disuse this saying, should or ought to have their skin
covered with more stratification that our globe. If this neglect of matter that existed in past
centuries, is what is spiritualism, is should prefer to be materialistic. But it seems to me that
true spirituality is in cleaned, shelled and purified, so the soul and body. A man can not
clean feel so beastly appetites as a dirty man. In many moral treaties, writings by monks,
who washed little insurance, I have read so unprecedented precautions to prevent temptation, Pasman
me and make me imagine that men and women would then be like tinder, gunpowder and fire. One
of these authors suggested that if there has to deliver something to a woman, put it to be
delivered in one table or elsewhere, and not be given by hand, to avoid the slightest rub or casual
touching, adding that people of different sex, they are more forthcoming, they must be at least a
distance four rods. The effervescence, which represents the excess of caution, no doubt came
from of the limited water, which cools, molifica and even spiritualized.

It is true that lust is not as fierce in the day as in the past. How lonely do not surprise
those penitents who, after long fasts and cruel still could not tame
and curb some bad passions, which represents some language mystics
call the donkey?

What does not scare, for example, that St. Hilarion, not ate more than a dozen dried figs
a day, and rations had to be shortened by more than half because he was very brave and emberrenchinado?
In this sense we are also more spiritualist now. While then the study of theology and lit overwrought
feelings emotional soul in love, a love that could easily twist a bad part, now studying spirited
youth, from his earliest years, business as serious as Krause Philosophy or political economy,
are made more moderating force and less mischievous and acquire a Gravity really like them, and all the
fire and freshness of imagination going, not poems and compliments to girls, but in rhymed prose
dithyrambs mellifluous, pray free trade, prays to desestanco salt, now to another object of the
same order as in the past old or even suspected that might be the target of many shots poetic
and abductions lyric so wonderful.

These symptoms are noticed today spiritualization everywhere. And homeopathy, to the infirmities
of the matter is cured almost spiritually. Do not take medicines, but are taken, so to speak,
the virtues, the spirit, the misty shadows of the remedies. Who soon know if they will invent foods
also homeopathic precursors that are already beef extract and revalence
Liebig and nourish us with the virtual or the essence imponderable
power of turkeys and hams, rather than nourish the common mode and
rude now used?

Recent discoveries of physiologists prove the rudeness with which nature proceeds so far in
this nutrition. To ensure, as evident truth that in less than a month completely moved all the
atoms or molecules in our bodies and take others. The soul, the hidden principle of life, virtue
plasmante, energy reporting, how ontic, as a wise friend of mine called, is only what remains.
Else changes constantly.

Life is, therefore, not poetic and figurative, but in all reality, a river, a whirlpool, a raging
torrent. A gentleman, to regulate bulk, you get to live seventy years and weighing six or
seven arrobas can ensure that it has been, assimilated and owned as part from your body, from
birth until the time of his death, some 5,000 or 6,000 arrobas substance which, if they are
equipped with high density, perhaps forming a volume one, two or three cubic miles. I ask, what
is the fuss, this move this incessant transmigration of matter, if the shape remains, when, if we
have a wart, always retain the wart? Would not it be better, and it is not possible to discover,
that no substances lose so often, and we do not have either that continually replenish? This
if it would Economy, should it be discovered. What is life but a development of heat, fire,
flame? And why, do not we ever get out of its dormant state that imponderable fluid and subtle,
without combustion of many substances? Do not you ever get cause the fire to move our machines
without having to consume all the lush flora and gigantea of ??the early ages, and retain the vital
heat without destroying so many ways, and not eat so many things? I see clear signs of approaching
the time of these inventions. Phrenology and magnetism has served to demonstrate the intimate and
mysterious harmonies link the spirit and the flesh. The electro-biology is a science that begins
now, and has yet to go a long way. May not be far away the blissful and glorious day when
fed in a less rude, volatilize our bodies, and to sustain in the air, and become ubiquitous,
and communicate, and even light and airy.

For all these considerations and others that remain silent in order not to make very tedious digression,
I have certainly our age, if they sin by something, or pneumatosis is plenty of spiritualism.

And
yet, I say, in this century as a spiritualist, loves little more than money mostly. I agree
that there is this love, but not in that has not always been, and perhaps more alive. I'm
not going to apologize now, but to explain.

At the time that a more perfect society will be well organized, the money will acquire a virtue most
significant (approaching infallibility) that is intelligent, industrious
and careful who you have.

The money will then represent the talent, work and other many virtues. Not having money mean,
almost equivalent to being lazy, ignorant and for little. We have not yet, unfortunately, to
this degree of social perfection, and there still many people who
get the money badly.

But as to confess that the greatest number will becomes ill, even as this were true, would be led
to serious dangers, and would poor excuse for hating the rich, all reasonable people and friends
of order and public tranquility, we believe and we believe that no ill-gotten money, while
a court did not prove otherwise.