 

Navigation had made a most happy, and his ship was like, anchored in the harbor, loaded tin, amber,
iron, skins of ermine and beaver, and other valuables that he had gone for the coast of France,
England and other regions of Northern Europe where only the Phoenicians ventured to arrive at
that time.

Adherbal Tyre was planning to return soon, but first had to take in
Malaga copper, wine, quicksilver and gold dust from the sands of our
rivers, instead leaving behind some of its cargo.

Walking one day along the quay to Echeloría Adherbal saw, and seeing her and swore by Melcart
Ashtoreth as it were by Hercules and Venus, who had never seen more beautiful creature and
salt. Desire was to suddenly reached the girl and slipped the turkey, that is, to say no ceremony,
her daring thoughts but Mutileder was beside her, looking suspicious
everywhere, with the beard on the shoulder, distrustful and hostile
attitude, and brandishing a huge and fierce club.

Prudence restrained the impulses of the Phoenician navy.

It was enough to see a glancing blow to Mutileder bear was able to wear yourself out to any
of a club, if he were to break down a bit with the beautiful and candid Echeloría.

Adherbal, as said, was wise, but he was also stubborn, enterprising and cunning. Echeloría
it was not a fleeting impression and light, but deep and durable.

So he found out who he was and where he lived, and got it with discretion and modesty.

Two or three times was then surreptitiously Churriana horse, and returned to see the child, being
captive to its unique charm.

Finally, through the clever people of the country, it was reported Echeloría life, he knew I
was going to marry Mutileder, and no detail was that you fail to
take full news.

These elements formed Adherbal a diabolical plan,
which went right, as unfortunately go wrong almost every diabolical
plans.

One early morning the ship weighed anchor and set sail from
the port of Malaga, after saying goodbye kick him. Out port and the
ship, he was very near the coast to the west, tacking to win best
wind