 So said the fisherman giving half of all money brought from
Arabia, and the fisherman kissed the stunned and confused's Friend Cador plants, and we last
name his guardian angel.

Zadig news did not stop to ask, and shed tears. What, sir, "said the fisherman, You are also unhappy
to be beneficial? Hundred times more unhappy than you, "replied Zadig. How may be, he said
the good man, that is the one who gives more to be pitied than to receive? Because your great
misfortune, "replied Zadig, was the need, and mine depends on the coraron. Would you Orcan
stolen to your wife? 'said the fisherman. This question he brought to mind Zadig all his adventures,
and made him go through the list of all their woes, starting with queen bitch until arrival
at the house of the bandit Arboga. Ha, 'said the fisherman, Orcan is worthy of punishment, but
these are usually men who are in Privanza destination. Anyway, go to the house of Mr. Cador,
and wait. Separáronse with this: the fisherman it was giving thanks
to his star, and constantly cursing Zadig yours.

CHAPTER XVIII.

The basilisk.

Zadig came to a beautiful meadow, where he saw a crowd of wives who were looking for caring thing
that had seemed lost. He approached one of them, and asked if I wanted that help them find what
they wanted to find. God forbid, said the Syria, what we we can touch only the women. Rare is
it, 'said Zadig: do me please tell me what it is that the women can only touch it? A basilisk,
"she said. A basilisk lady! Why what are you looking for a basilisk? For our lord and master
Ogul, whose palace are watching the banks of the river, and within this field, who are his most humble
slaves.

Mr. Ogul is bad, and your doctor has prescribed a basilisk eat boiled in water roses, and as
is very rare animal, and that only the women are catching dexamethasone, has promised Mr.
Ogul to choose for his beloved wife to bring him a basilisk that well dexádmele look, that you
see how much I would lose if one of my colleagues before I could Topara.

I leave this Zadig to Syria and to all others who seek their basilisk, and continued on his
way the prairie. On reaching the bank of a creek, he found another lady lying on lawns, not
looking for anything. It seemed majestic stature, although he had covered his face a veil. Head
was tilted to Anoy; exhaled from time to time deep sobs and held in his hand a wand with the qual
was esciibiendo letters in a fine sand between lawns and courage mediated. Zadig wanted to see
what he wrote: arrimóse, and saw a Z, then an A, and wondered: then read a D, and gave her
heart skip a beat, but never was both his astonishment, as the two rearward Quando read letters in
his name. Remained motionless for a while, finally breaking the silence, unsure, voice, said:
"Generous Lady, forgive to a hapless foreigner who dares to ask why anything strange encounter
here the name of Zadig, by thy divine hand writing? On hearing this voice and these words, lifted
with trembling hand the lady her veil, myth Zadig, uttered a cry of Temur, wonder and joy, and surrendering
to the various emotions that together embatian his soul fainted in arms. Was Astarte, was the
queen of Babylon, the same as Zadig idolized, and whose love his
conscience accused him, those whose fate had cost so many tears. He
spent some time deprived of the use of their senses, and when their
eyes Cluver's eyes slowly Astarte opened again between faint, confused,
loving, O immortal powers! exclaimed, "Restitais me to my Astarte