 What I suppose, and
what I think about at face value, is that the tyrant, benevolent or malevolent monarch or tribune
president of the republic, or chief alcalde, grows, feeds or breathe the environment, does
the will of the most or more worth by the number or energy, and not be what it is if you do
not provide relief and support for this whatsoever. Maybe Nero, upon his return to rule the day
in a cultured nation in Europe, would be a constitutional monarch afabilísimo something fun lover
and friend, very generous patron of the sciences and arts, would by his side to a composer of
operas such as Wagner, to some excellent Lola Montes dancer and a brilliant retinue of architects,
sculptors, painters, poets, writers and scholars. Perhaps Philip II, and again to rise and
reign in Spain he so identified with the national spirit and national thought then, would
cominero and with no less suspicious and no less cumbersome than it already did, but drifting
stream of time, far from being a fan, it would be a freethinker, but surreptitiously, with firmness,
and seek for different orientations, as they say now, that enlargement and prosperity of their states
that undoubtedly sought when there appeared for the first time.

Bring to mind all the above to the foundation of the opinion that I give on the aforementioned Snow
and mud novel. Is snow, if not the entire population, the vast majority of people a picturesque
and beautiful village of the Alpujarras, located in the fertile but Riscoso skirt Veleta the
lofty, and designated by the pseudonym Iberuela. And are silt Mayor or chief and his son Luke,
two devils incarnate all Anasco. But for them, that place would be paradise. The rural simplicity
of manners, cheerful innocence soft and pure love would prevail there if it were not for Lucas,
the mayor's son is hooked, as a lecherous satyr, the gentle Hope, paragon of all virtues and other
good garments that can enhance the merit of a girl. The father of this is a great subject. And
the parson, D. Serafin, a true holy man, a venerable servant of God, a model cures. His nephew,
Luciano, not far behind in point of moral perfection. Is selfless discreet, hardworking, educated
and courageous, demonstrating the latest in the war in Cuba, where he had to go to war because he
dropped the card as a soldier. Already returned to the place with the license absolute, it becomes
a school teacher, and teaches the kids so well and with such skill and affection, the boys and parents
will bless and love him.

Even before that Luciano was an activist in the Pearl of the Antilles, from infancy almost, or
almost no, Luciano and Hope were dating, they were chained by the flowery sweet loop of the
most chaste and delicate love.

In the novel Snow and mud, whose author is Mr. José Joaquín Domínguez, master, to I mean, holy
cathedral of Guadix, everything I had to figure is beautifully told in full, with rare and
pure elegance of style, with spontaneous naturally and with such vividness and richness of color
so that credit with excellent and inspired writer who does, further demonstrating that paints what
he has seen, taking it from life and feel and love and reflected in his soul all that beauty, not
only as a faithful mirror but adorned, glorified and enlightened
by ideals also glows.

The love story of Snow and mud would be so nice and peaceful, although
less sensual sick and more ethereal than that of Daphnis and Chloe,
if not, as already indicated, by a rogue Lucas, son of the chief.

He throws it all away in the most unexpected, brutal and bloody.

As naturalísimo, lovers Luciano and Hope arrive at the end of their legitimate desires, and receive
the nuptial blessing in the church, but coram popular when the crowd
and general rejoicing, leaving the church the newlyweds, Lucas appears,
is thrown on Luciano like a tiger on its prey, and kills him with
two accurate and terrible stabbing.

Pitiful is the fact. Not without plausibility, although it is strange that someone, inveterate
cynical and vicious criminal who is, resort to murder so little pretense. For more than compliance
with the proverbial phrase or sentence that says that nothing is too dangerous or too difficult to
do when you have the mayor father, is even more strange that the
murder of Luciano go unpunished, and even that is applauded by the
higher authority, which is indicated and is presumed by the end of
the novel