 Nótanse
also on the edge of the woods two other species of palms, the very high and holds its leaves
in a single line divided to the two sides of the trunk, forming a beautiful green range [2]
and the other thorny [3] leaves similar, though smaller, to the Royal Palm Chiquitos. Something closer
to the mission, a wild fruit is grown the shape of a pear, which only eat when you're black
of ripe, they taste like the loquat, and their seeds are very analogous to those of the pear.

;

The
San-Joaquin population in 1823 was composed of seven hundred sixty-six
Baures Indians; but the devastation caused in 1832 by the smallpox
and Sarapion, the reduced number of six hundred and ninety souls.

The village consists of five installments, known under the names
of Paschiono, Caparebocono, Tacarano, Abeabano and stumps.

The cattle of the state property amounted in 1830 to three thousand eight hundred and eight heads,
and the horse to three hundred thirty-five.

In that year the product of the mission was six hundred seventy dollars.

San-Joaquin roads to Exaltation.

To go to San-Joaquin San-Pedro, it follows (as stated in speaking of this mission) during Machupo
River through San-Ramon. To go in the rainy season to Exaltation, which is twenty-seven miles
in a straight line towards the west, it is necessary to cross a plain canoe cross in all directions
for several streams that are routed, one at River Machupo others to the Mamore. In dry times
it has been traveling the same path to the magnificent horse plains, but for the conveyance of goods
there is no other vehicle than the rivers, and path then extends one hundred and twenty leagues.
They got the first thirty Machupo River to its confluence with the item or Guaporé; next forty
east to its junction with the Mamore, which is necessary to rise, following his lengthy detours
by space of fifty leagues, to get to Exaltation. To learn more about these vehicles transport,
which are both the most beautiful rapids of the province, I will describe detail.

San-Joaquin leaving you sail for two days by the Machupo, descending
towards the north-northeast.

The banks of this river are trimmed with very dense forest, which reveal the effect of a active vegetation.
Savage appearance, but varied in these solitudes, not without a certain greatness. On one side,
dark green tint of the forests, the windings multiplied the river, the troops of monkeys, the
many dolphins that travel to two canoes, and the other the multitude of coastal and terrestrial
birds, encourage landscaping making it more interesting. The river, whose width is one hundred
yards, received tributes from a number of creeks help drain the flood plain. At noon the second
day passed by a site where both sides are covered with plantations grown and belonging to the
Indians San-Ramon and San-Joaquin. Machupo along the banks of the river are quite high over
a long space of course, a fact which should encourage the cultivation of its banks, being therefore
strange that is not thought to put less distance missions. A little more than two in the afternoon,
the confluence of the river has Itonama, under whose name continues running to meet the Machupo
Guaporé or ITENE. Then we discover towards the north above the trees, the western prolongation
of the Sierra's Diamond. From this starting point to show thousands of dolphins playing on the airwaves,
and transit Some leagues, are three beautiful species of palms, which are not found anywhere else
Part [1]. At about five river flows into the Iten, whose confluence would have been very desirable
to establish a population, given the great elevation of the left bank of Itonama, but certainly
not this have given rise to endless discussions between Spanish and Portuguese, on the limits
of their respective possessions, and is already referred to, eager the latter to retain its
monopoly of the navigation of these rivers, the Jesuits espulsaron trying to settle on its banks
[2].

Items which the river is a quarter of a mile wide at this point, and its majestic waters fairly quickly
by running between the islands of the most picturesque appearance.

On one of his banks, filled with trees, is a Brazilian place: to go to him, it is necessary
to fight upstream from the rivers Itenes é Itonama, we hit form a barrier force movable, an imposing
appearance. The post is occupied even a sergeant and four soldiers, they have orders not to let
any vessel without the consent of the commander the fort of Beira, which is located two miles
below. It is therefore essential writing advance to the trustee at the request of a pass in front
of the fort. Although the left bank owned any property to the Republic of Bolivia, the Brazilian
are considered the absolute masters of the whole river course. The soldiers guarding the post,
They are just clothes, and live in abject poverty, a handful of farinha pao is the ration given
daily for their maintenance, and every eight days, get some powder cartridges that hunt elk and
other wild animals whose meat they also serve food.

Fort Prince of Beira.

When you have achieved the specified permission, or descends Guaporé
Iten, admiring the picturesque in its margins, and the mountains that
dominate its left bank.

Two leagues, little more or less, presents a strong Prince of Beira on which the flag flutters
Brazil. This strong, square and surrounded by moats, it is also a bastion at each flank. Carboniferous
sandstone, consisting of the adjacent mountains, is the material used in its construction,
which has been well executed by a European engineer. His garrison, now reduced to thirty men.
It was this strong in its foundation, a prison for murderers, but today is intended to serve as the
condemned political exile, who are deprived of all kinds of resources in this secluded place
where they have yet some ease.

The little town of Santa Rosa, under the strong, and half a league originally was far towards the
west, is placed at this háacia the north and to less distance, being
composed single row of houses, whose inhabitants are all black and
mulatto, amounted to number four.

Dealing with this population to traffic with checkpoints, rising from Para, on the Madeira River
and then by the Guaporé, to Mato Grosso. These large boats, awnings and flat bottom are the size
of a sloop of twenty to thirty tons; and though in proportion to the depth of the river may
have more capacity, no number jumps of the Madeira River (which are presented whenever sailors
forced to withdraw to water to carry their boats overland with the help of round logs, placed
by way of wheels) makes its size is decreased. Otherwise this is the only difficulty that provides
the navigation of this river, which is enough depth everywhere to serve as a vehicle for steamboats
of the largest dimension.

Para Starting up the booths to sail or paddle to the mouth of the Madeira River, then to paddle only
to stumble at the first rapids, which is necessary to save the So I have said, renewing operation
more than twenty times, and in which much is lost time [1].

Having saved the last cachuela you paddle with great work to the confluence of Itenes and Mamore
rivers, and from this point, the fort of Beira, where the food makers to go up at once to Mato
Grosso. Be necessary to use a full year in the first leg and return of these expeditions, it is
preferred by ground lead directly Rio Janeiro Santos or value of merchandises, and although the distance
is traveled by mule is eight hundred leagues, while the economy continues to be considerable, so
that the booths, being reserved solely for the purpose of transporting a lot of volume or weight,
no are but three or four expeditions per year from Pará to Mato Grosso.

Around the fort of Prince of Beira forest villages are spacious, where palm trees stand out: the hills
immediately, placed in an amphitheater, is gradually rise towards the north, coming to be
quite far from its peak.

The ground remains entirely composed of sandstone, is barren, and only some pieces adjacent
to the river bank Itenes lend to agriculture and produce very good results.

On leaving the fort of Beira, the river Itenes or Guaporé [1] is about half a league wide;
clear water, but black sheen, are slowly down through forests and magnificent an savage aspect
rather than picturesque.

The nature in this place is too big and majestic for them to understand the details. Meanwhile,
very rarely be disturbed any traveler this beautiful loneliness that holds no more ornaments
than the rich vegetation of dark forests, because even the birds cross only by chance and without
ever stopping. No However, the uniformity of landscaping is occasionally interrupted by some garrisoned
islands trees, and blue mountains on the right bank, highlighting the distance on dark green
background of lush forests.

After having gone a long journey, rowing with all the speed of the current, halts at dusk, or
on the right bank where there is a very dense forest where the ground
should be excellent for farming, or on the left is filled with magnificent
forests.

The Brazilians attacked the fort are often very often these Parages by Indians Itenes inhabiting
both shores, and exploit every opportunity to strive for violence, weapons and iron that they
are absolutely necessary from the time of contact with the Spanish and Portuguese. These savages,
an independent and proud, have retained their entire freedom, preferring to be decimated every
day from over a century, rather than submit to the religious zeal of the Jesuits or the yoke
of the Spanish. Today are still what they were in the time of discovery, and its conservation
should independence to the close union that seems to reign among them.

This nation occupies all the angle formed by the confluence of the rivers Itenes and Mamore.
The tribes who live scattered component within a desert surrounded by huge impenetrable swamps
and jungles.

These Indians, whose customs are extremely unique, just ignore the middle civilization around
them, so clever and covertly slip their canoes in small tributaries of the Mamore and Iten, where
the Indians lurk mission or the soldiers of Fort Brazilian Beira, attacking the neglect, many times
for the shadows of the night, another attempt to procure the few tools.

On the second day, you see the river as wide and beautiful as the day before, but much more tortuous
and almost entirely rid of islets is seen among both trimmed its
left bank palm palm fronds, whereas on the right comes from too many
trees varied, a new species of palms, known as the Indian chuco and
most remarkable for its leaves, whose figure is equal to that of a
sun, it is composed of numerous leaflets it like a lightning start
from a central point to which they are sugetas [1].

Upon arriving at the angle formed by the reunion of the Mamore Itenes, a spectacle more impressive
is presented to the eye, which embrace one stroke both the majestic swing currents can easily compare
and admire the wonderful contrast [1].

The river Iten, which, as already stated, receives all the waters of the province of Mato Grosso
and northern and north-west of Chiquitos, and whose tax, dropping from some high hills, are gently
by a vast area of ??plains, which have strong embankments, it retains
its waves almost always pure and never carries plant offal; to step
the Mamore, not only remains murky and muddy throughout the year,
but carries bubbling trunks, leaves, roots, and sometimes whole trees,
therefore, to have more of their resources on the high cerranías provinces
of Cochabamba, Mizque and Valle Grande, or on the north side of the
last slopes of the mountain, all its tributaries are formed and cross
the raging torrents plain with such rapidity that start passing along
the banks of one of its edges.

Results from this provision so different that the Itenes presents everywhere on its banks a
field highly desirable to establish stable and flourishing villages, while the banks Mamore not
give rise to the insurance of any kind, or even lend even for agriculture: reason why all missions
Mamoré only the banks involved some tax side.

Itenes river water after being reunited with the Mamore, run for a long area without mixing and
still retain their semblance particular.

From the point of reunion of these two great rivers is to make a six-day voyage canoe to arrive
at the confluence of the Beni River, which comes down from west to join on the left with the
Mamore, which carries on its majestic course under the name of river de Madeiras [1].

The banks of the Mamore are already naked in this place of ancient forests, and all parties offer
floodplain, where the plant breeding has been called the Spanish
chuchio [1] and the lambaiva, whose leaves are whitish and cut into
finger-like protruding on the tender green of the willows on the green
or blue with the smooth.

Among the many palm species already known, covering more lofty terrain, stands a new, peculiar
to this district, which is grown in abundance, particularly on the
hillsides.

This plant, which the Brazilians give the name of vinte pes (twenty feet) is one of the most
elegant of the palm family, their roots, that support the trunk, lower from the height of three yards,
away from each other in proportion as they approach the ground: this is the circumstance that
made you give the name under which it is known in the country.

The auction of the trunk smooth and steep, which usually comes at the height of fifteen to twenty
beam, leaving for its large leaves everywhere gracefully trimmed in an elegant plume: sírvense
Indians off to make rosary beads [2].

On the first day of the Mamore, are sighted several camps of Indians savages, and at each step
are noted in the narrow canyons trails that go down to the river, particularly on the right bank,
whose lands are higher.

It comes in the meantime to meet the Mamore, left, the river Iruyani, often furrowed by Cayuvava
of Exaltation, sometimes rising to the west, up near the mission Reyes. A little above, is
also the mouth of Matucaré, on whose Itenes tribes inhabiting the banks that have formed at that
point a sort of village beautiful plantings that grow maize, cassava and bananas: these warlike
Indians make frequent raids on the dry time in the Mission District
of Exaltation in order to acquire weapons and tools.

When the rains that fall into the Mamore sources are somewhat heavy,
they accrete considerably waves, dragging more trees than usual; so
are some areas, particularly in the middle of the river, so covered
vegetable offal look great floating islands.

To have to fight less against the current, always pays Orrillo it is opposed, but the windings multiplied
formed by the river, forcing surfers to cross very often on one side to the other, which continues
to be extremely dangerous, as the slightest collision with these floating logs can immerse
the flimsy canoes: but the wisdom and skill with which the pilots and rowers execute their
maneuvers in difficult times, triumph over obstacles sludge.

In this transition are found always tangled woods, in which there
is a large tree, usually have enough thirteen and fifteen yards in
circumference.

The Spanish have given the Higueron name [1], as a sort of giant fig tree, but in the province
of Santa Cruz most well known under the bibosi. Indians used the bark of this tree to be shirts,
and flat roots, which are divided into vertical sheets are naturally draw tables that serve to
cut the boxes in which the Espido goods in the state-owned. All these forests, inhabited by a
prodigious diversity of plant almost unknown in her womb also harbor tigers and other wild animals.

The
banks of the Mamore present at every step picturesque landscaping, and them that the variety
of the vegetation makes it look more cheerful. The low spots are always covered sensory pink flower,
while the driest thing Parages abundant plant whose stems are shaped like a fan, and are crowned
with tufts whitish, waving uniformly at the whim of the wind contrast
with mimosa blossoms, with lambaiva of sugar clusters, or with vines
hanging all over the interlaced branches with palm trees.

Any wonder the traveler who passes through the middle of those lovely borders, where his eyes peacefully
rests on a very lavish vegetation, or to stop They look forward to these colonies of Kingfisher,
who out of their boxes hidden in holes in sandy cliffs, still by far the direction of the canoes.

On the third day have to face one of the greatest challenges confronting the Mamore for navigation,
as there is a point where its current very narrow, is to be more impetuous, and form a swirling
funnel too fast for canoes can save them without venturing too: such is the violence sweeping the
water passing above them, the weaker vessel wavers and wobbles as
if it had hit against a rock.
