 Bumping this, I asked the reason footman.

- Poor thing - he answered - and na malu, but the afternoon is almost
over, and we are entoavía Stork strips to measure your feet.

I was unsatisfied with the answer, but I insisted no further questions.

It took over an hour to cross the Harbour, which measures, for that line, about two leagues.
At the end of this tiring day, another surprise for me, new show, new ideas and new impressions.
A cliff in front, another right, another to the left ... Which of them would Chisco ...? For
the worse, by the first, the only one, although bad output was visible. This output was the result
of something like collapse of a huge wall built by Titans to scale back the sky. For one the
interstices of that heap of mountains dislocated, half and take a mossy of nut tree, gorse
and olive others, some of them have either robust or village of slender "whitebeams" (the tasty
tree and red fruit), with large red spots on the side, printed by the dry fern, and all part
of their skeletons rock showing through the tears in his clothes, was the road leading to the
end of my empecatada issue. But to get there we had to descend a slope that dizzy. Slide along the
sidewalk, slippery slabs as it, in ziszás, among thickets and sometimes shrubs, many uncovered
over the canyon, at the bottom, darkened by weeds on both sides, grumbled the waters of the streams
channeled homeless there to go to swell by capricious river flow paths that plunges our left and
across the Harbour.

To all this, the night was approaching, the yellowish tint of foliage was dying, highlighting on
the leaden dark of the mountains, gave the closest terms a cadaverous pallor; and bottom of
the cliffs where rotting vegetation was dead, rose pungent smell,
a whiff of tannin me nerves.

In presence of this new show and the plain of Puerto the back, it was not granite statue I
bloody fluid flints: the contemplation of the labyrinth Saw undaunted, Cueto steep and inaccessible peaks,
of harsh and dark folds of terrifying ravines and steep rocky hills, suddenly transported my imagination
the enthusiasm "archaeological" My father felt there contaminated them there conceived the Spaniard
of his hymns in all its savage grandeur, even dressed in skins and drinking blood horse, and
even got to see: I saw him, yes, resurrected in the flesh, the flesh and the bones of my own footman.
That strong body and tireless tow those locks, that Palo Pinto, who mimicked his right hand a spear,
that blue umbrella under his arm left, could be a bundle of poisoned arrows, that jutting jaw,
that powerful and imperturbable look, that face and tawny montuna ... Oh! digging a little
everything, no doubt, the Spaniard was primitive. I realized then resistance six years against
the invincible legions of Augustus, and shattered legions at the bottom of the gorges, or rolling
down the slopes tart, crushed by the rocks abstracted from the summits, the exalted sense of their
wild independence, the death cross before the yoke of the conqueror ... everything, everything
I knew and everything I felt, as that I understood and felt my father, unless she could live
among such intricacies and as elusive solitude, a man of my education, my feelings and my habits.

With these fantasies in his head and closed his eyes very often do not see the depths to my feet,
I went down the slope where and how it was my pony, to whose judicious firmness I had given
to blind faith from above, on behalf of itself Chisco, who preceded
me walking down the precipice to disengage I like the halls of my
house.

Tucked into the crack and a lizard, just gave way, "usgoso" and bewildered to lay their feet
with great care, my nag. At best, large canopies granite with brambles and wild roses mantling
scraping the head, while the I prodded the right side of the escajos
thorns, and the slightest slip of my horse could launch into the depths
of the left