 

And the father cried in his arms to oppress. Silently lamented the brevity of the interview; thought
of the dangers awaiting his only son to leave him.

When René had disappeared, the captain started the running of the group. It was getting late; should
arrive before nightfall to a given cantonment.

Iban downhill, away of an edge of the mountain, watching very high enemy projectiles.

In a hollow they found several groups of 75 guns. Were scattered in the woods, concealed by piles
of branches, crouched like dogs barking poking their noses gray. The big guns roared at intervals
of serious pause. These packs of screaming steel incessantly, without opening the slightest break
in her anger noisy, like a tear fabric that is part endless.

The pieces were many, the rapid fire, and explosions mingled into one, as the series of points are
joined to form a compact line.

The leaders, intoxicated by the sound, gave his orders to shouting
and waving their arms walking behind the pieces.

The guns were sliding on the stationary carriages, moving and back like automatic pistols. Each
shot threw the empty dish, introducing a new bullet point in the room smoking.

Swirling air behind the battery to swell furious. Lacour and his partner received a blow to every
shot in the chest, the violent contact of an invisible hand that pushed back. They had to pace your
breathing to the sound of gunfire. During hundredth of a second, between the air wave and new
wave swept progressed, her breasts experienced the anguish of the
void.

Desnoyers admired these dogs bark gray. Knew While their bites, which amounted to several
kilometers. Still remained fresh in his poor castle.

A Lacour it seemed that the ranks of cannon monotonous chanting and fierce, as they should hymns
to be warriors of mankind from prehistoric times. This music notes dry, deafening, delirious,
waking up was something that sleeps two in the bottom of All souls:
the savagery of the remote ancestors.

The air is warmed with pungent odors, sharp, brutally intoxicating. The perfumes of the explosive
came to the brain the mouth, ears, and eyes.

Experienced the same inflaming of directors of the pieces, shouting and bracts in the midst of
thunder.

Empty capsules were forming a thick layer behind the guns. Fire! ... Always fire!

- You have to spray it - shouting heads -. We must give a good watering the forest where the Boches.

And
watered the mouths of 75 non-stop, flooding the remote woods projectiles.

Emboldened by this deadly activity, intoxicated by the speed shredder, subject the rapture of
the red hours, Lacour and Desnoyers were suddenly waving their hats, moving from side to side
as if they were to dance the sacred dance of death, screaming mouth dry steam per acre wildfire,
"Viva ... alive! "

The car rolled all afternoon, stopping sometimes congested roads by The long parade of trains.
Passed through fallow fields, with skeletons housing. They ran along the torching of villages
that were nothing more than a succession of black facades with open holes on the vacuum.

- Now it's up to you - to the senator said Desnoyers -. We're going to see his son.

They met at the late afternoon with numerous groups of infantry soldiers Luengo beard and faded blue
uniforms for the weather. Returning from the entrenchments, taking over the hump of their
backpacks shovels, picks and other tools to remove dirt, who had
become a key combat arms.

Iban head covered in mud to feet. Everyone seemed old in their youth.

His joy at returning to the cantonment after a week of trench populated the silence of the
plain with songs accompanied by the dull shock of spiked shoes. In the violet dusk, the male
choir he was scattering the winged strophes of the Marseillaise or
heroic claims Canto starting.

- They are the soldiers of the revolution
- said Senator excited -, France has gone back to 1792.

They spent the night in a half ruined town, which had established the headquarters of division.
The two captains were fired. Others would be responsible for guiding them in the morning next.

They
had stayed in the Hotel de la Sirena "old building, with the front
gnawed by shells.

The owner proudly showed them a broken window that had taken the form of a crater. This window was
losing its importance to the ancient sign of establishment: a woman iron with a fish tail. As
Desnoyers occupied the adjoining room which had to received the projectile, the hotel wanted
to show it before they go to bed.

All broken, walls, floor, ceiling. Furniture made chips in the corners
of flowery rags paper hanging on the walls.

For a huge hole could be seen entering the stars and cold night. The owner did state that this
destruction was not the work of the Germans.

Had caused a projectile 75 to be repelled the invaders out of town. And smiled patriotic pride
in the destruction, repeating:

- It is the work of our own. How about how it works for 75? ... What do you say this? ...

Despite the fatigue of travel, Mr. Marcelo slept badly, troubled by the thought that their son
was a short distance.

An hour after sunrise and left the village by car driven by another officer. A the two sides of the
road were camps and camps. Parks left behind ammunition passed the third line of troops, then
the second. Thousands and thousands of men had been installed in the countryside, improvising
their homes. This tingling manly remembered, with its variety uniforms and races, the great
invasions of history. It was a town in progress: exodus of people after it has been women and
children. Here were men only, men everywhere.

All kinds of room passing for mankind from the cave, were used in these agglomerations military.
The caves and quarries were used as barracks. A reminded the American farm huts, others long
and conical, imitating the gurbi Africa. Many of the soldiers came from the colonies, some had lived
as dealers in New World countries, and having to improvise a home more stable than the canvas
tent, appealing to their memories, mimicking the architecture of the tribes who were on contact.
Moreover, this mass of Moroccan fighters had handles, black and Asian
that seemed to grow away from the cities, getting to an open field
superiority made them masters of the civilized.

Beside streams fluttering white robes out to dry.

Rows of bare-chested men facing the fresh morning, leaning on the
blade with water to wash noise followed by vigorous scrubbing ablations
... On a bridge a soldier wrote, using as table the parapet ... The
cooks were moving around the steaming pots.

A whiff soup greasy morning was spreading among the resinous perfume of trees and smell of wet
earth.

Long wooden huts and zinc served the cavalry and artillery to save the livestock and material.
The soldiers were cleaning and outdoor shod horses, pike and fat. Trench warfare kept them in placid
obesity.

- If they had been well in the battle of the Marne !...-- Desnoyers said his friend.

Now, the horses lived in endless rest. Their riders were fighting on foot, firing in the trenches.
The beasts were swollen in a quiet convent, and had to take them
out ride to avoid getting sick before the manger full.

Stood on the plain, gray like dragonflies, several airplanes ready
to fly.

Many men were grouped around them. The peasants become soldiers considered Comrade admiringly
handlers of these machines.

They saw in him the same power of the revered and feared wizards in the stories of the village.

Don
Marcelo was set in the overall transformation of the French uniform. All were grayish blue-clad
head to foot. Scarlet pants, the red kepi was seen in the days of the Marne, were gone. The men
who traveled on the roads were military. All vehicles up the oxcart, were guided by a soldier.

Suddenly
stopped the car near some houses ruined and blackened by fire.

- We have arrived - said the officer -. Now we have to walk a bit.

The senator and his friend started to march down the road.

- Not that way - back to say the guide -. That way is harmful to health.
Get rid air flows.

He explained that the Germans had their guns and entrenchments at the end of this road descending by
a depression in the ground and went back on the horizon the white tape between two rows of
trees and burned houses. Pale morning, with its misty fading, we put to cover from enemy fire.
On a sunny day, the arrival of the car would have been greeted with
a howitzer.

"This war is like that - he concluded -, is close to a death without her."

It agreed to the two general recommendations that had been the day before your table. "Beware: the
trench warfare is a traitor." They saw before them the vast field without a person, but their commonality.
Was the field on Sunday, when workers are at home and the soil seems to refocus in silent meditation.
Objects were reports abandoned in the plains, such as agricultural implements in days of rest.
Maybe cars were broken harmonies artillery destroyed in the explosion of its load.

- Over here - said the official, adding that four soldiers had to shoulder various bags and
packages brought by Desnoyers on the roof of the car.

They walked in single file along a blackened brick wall, following
a downward path.

A few steps from the ground surface was at the height of his knees, and beyond them reached at the
waist, then to the shoulders, and so dug into the earth, seeing only over their heads a narrow
strip of sky.

Were in the countryside. They had left behind him a group of ruins that hid the entrance the road.
They marched in an absurd way, as if they hated the straight line,
zigzag, in curves, angles.

Other no less complicated paths started from the ditch, which was the avenue central city of a vast
underground. Walking ... walked. A quarter of an hour, half an hour, an hour. Lacour and his
friend thought longingly of the roads flanked tree, the outdoor gear,
watching the sky and fields.

They did not twenty paces row in the same direction.

The officer, who was ahead, disappearing at every moment in revolt.

Those who were panting and talking behind invisible, having to rush step not to miss. From time
to time were high to refocus and include for fear that someone had
lost in a transverse gallery.

The floor was slippery. In some places there was an almost liquid mud, white and corrosive, like
the dripping from the scaffolding of a house under construction.

The echo of his footsteps, the rustle of her shoulders, gave off clods and pebbles of the two
slopes. Now and then up the ditch and came up with him walking.

Even a small effort to see over the mounds. But what I saw were uncultivated fields, fences
with poles on the cross, looking as plain lies, lack of inhabitants. Knew Experience the officer
that cost many times that curiosity, and not allow them to prolong
it: "Forward, forward."

They had an hour and half walking. The two travelers began to feel the fatigue and disorientation
in this way in zigzag. And knew not whether advancing or retreating. The rough slopes, Continuous
riots, produced in them a principle of vertigo.

- Is it much to
get there - said the senator.

- There - said the officer, pointing
above the mounds.

There was a tower in ruins and several houses that were burned in
the distance: the remains of a people made and lost several times
by each other.

The same way they would have done on the earth's crust in half an hour going online straight. At
the angles of the underground road, ready to prevent enemy advance, obstacles had to be added
to the fortification of campaign tunnels cut by fences; wire cages that were suspended, but the
fall obstructing the ditch, can the defenders to fire through the
lattice.

Began to find soldiers with bales and buckets of water. Were lost in the tortuous cross paths.
Some were sitting on a pile of logs, reading a smile little paper written in the trenches.

Felt in the way the same evidence that reported on the surface of the earth the proximity of
a population. Soldiers turned away to make way for the procession; sticking bearded faces and curious
in the alleys. Sounded in the distance a cacophony of noise dry as if at the end of the tortuous path
exist a firing range or exercise group hunters to shoot down pigeons.

The morning was still cloudy and cold. Despite the humid environment, a buzzing bumblebee sticky
crossed several times over the two visitors.

- Bullets - the official said laconically.

Desnoyers had sunk a little head between his shoulders. Was well aware that noise insect. The
senator went faster, and felt no fatigue.
Were faced with a lieutenant colonel who received them as an engineer
who teaches workshops, as a naval officer showing the batteries and
towers of the battleship. He was the head of battalion occupied this
sector of the trenches. Don Marcelo looked forward to thinking that
his son was under his orders.

- This is like a ship - said after
hello.

The two friends recognized that underground fortifications
had some overlap with the bowels of a ship. They went from trench
to trench. They were the last line, older, dark galleries in which
only came to light trickles through the loopholes and the large windows
and low machine guns. The long line of defense was a tunnel, cut short
open spaces. It was jumping from light to dark and dark to light with
a rough visual tired eyes. In the open spaces the soil was higher.
There were benches built into the slope table for observers could
make head or examine the landscape using the periscope. Confined spaces
served to both batteries and bedrooms.

These barracks had been discovered
at the beginning trenches, equal to those of first line. To repel
the enemy and gain ground, the fighters, who carried them all winter,
had sought installed with greater comfort. On-air trenches free beams
had crossed the ruined houses, on the beams, planks, doors, windows
and woodwork over several rows of sandbags. These bags were covered
by a layer of humus from which sprang herbs, giving the back of the
trench a placidity green and pastoral. The vaults of time resisting
the fall of the shells, which were buried them without causing major
damage