 With good dogs already have clothing, safety pin. Ah!
God gives me a black dog that smells dende a league ...

- As for myself, "said Captain Peña Moya cutting off the floor, I must inform the Don Candido I've
done in your gift as fit in my faculties. Indeed, just I had notice of the occurrence by which
I gave you his overseer, Don Liborio Sanchez, no watch lost time in passing trade, to use e-Bay
Honda, to Messrs. Lucas Villaverde and Don Maximo Arosarena, inspectors in San Diego de Núñez,
of the item captained by Don Francisco Estévez, just formed by order of the Real Board Development,
to pursue Maroons in jurisdictions from the pier tables or Mariel Callajabos, Bankruptcy Axe,
etc., to the western limits of Bahia Honda. With my job I included the lords inspectors affiliation,
age and nature (more or least understood, because you know that all blacks are alike) of the
seven that have been I hope you run off to, then, that if you encounter them the game, something
feasible, because I suspect who pulled the mountains near Cuzco, the capture y. .. Nor should it
surprise Mr. Don Candido which he has escaped seven blacks, when the same time have flat 12,
St. Thomas, 8, Valvanera, 6, Santa Isabel, 20, of La Begoña, and 40, yes sir, 40 as you hear
it, the narrow, immediate wit here, belonging to Hon. Lord Count of Fernandina. The list of all
their work and held by masters inspectors, and I suppose also, Captain Estévez.

- No wonder the leak of my servants, "said Don Candido thoughtful.

Nor are these the first blacks who are fleeing me. There are, if not, Chilala, Jose, Sixto, John,
Lino, Nicholas Picap, etc., not let me lie. These, when they are not raised in the mountains,
suffering, such as now a rather long sentence on the farm, and crickets are double strand, or
crawl chain with mace. Goyo, or Cayman, the watchman of the talanquera on the road from the beach,
is knows who has spent his youth between these mountains can be seen from here ... But all
those are real congo, congo congo Loango or musundi, race humble, submissive, loyal, the most
proper for slavery, which seems a natural condition. Just a flaw, yes, serious capital: is more
lazy race comes out of Africa. If you could live without eating howler monkeys, there would human
forces that compelled them to turn back and work. Be able to spend the panciarriba cast life ...
And not to work, often fleeing ... What surprises me much, what I fail to explain is why they
followed the example of Peter and Paul howler carabalí, Julian plow, Andrés bibi, Tomasa suam,
Antonio Cleto Briche or Ganga. These black industrious, tireless work, strong, robust, formal,
they do not run away without cause. No, black people who always have time for their masters and
yes, raise money and freedom is often not flee little. They are very proud, that is his only
flaw, to win without strong cause. Before hanging themselves to escape to the forest ...

Lie could see so little that something is reached Don Candido ailment
Gamboa African ethnology.

Already seen, the constant traffic in slaves for many years, holding two or three hundred of
these, he had been taught by race were more submissive or rebellious, more or less calculated
to lead to death on the heavy yoke of slavery. Happened, however, that nothing had taught him to Moya
long experience in handling black own and others, and his whole being revolted when she heard
that there were good and bad, and that some are not without cause powerful ever fled rather took
their own lives. So Moya, at risk of breaking straw with the master, said:

- It is known that Mr. Don Candido has been black and knows those
who serve it and do not serve pa pa that.

By permission of Don Candido I say that blacks are toos do the same when the Guinea them into
his head. Pa toos then pull back as the mules and must jar with the leather. We'll see.