 Are limit the
dimension, for in them end the division, are a generator of the dimension, They therefore that
the extension form, occupying a particular place in space, for which of these bodies form with
all its determinations in the same space. Then, sticking to this opinion, professed by such eminent philosophers
such as Leibnitz and Boscowich, it appears that the geometric point exists in nature with all
the accuracy of a scientific nature.

The opinion that denies the existence of unextended points, admits, however, and must support by necessity,
to the infinite divisibility. The length is over, then there is the division between them,
these sides at the same time, or are extended or unextended, if unextended, is needed to course
and support the opinion of unextended points, if extensive, are susceptible to division, and
thus it is necessary or become indivisible points or continue the
division until the infinity.

He noted that this opinion, although clearly not as favorable as the other, to the existence
actual geometric points, finally coming to recognize this accomplishment. The parties that divide
the compound is not made with pre-existing division but to the division, for that this is
possible is necessary that the parties exist, they exist, not because they can divide, but
you can split them because they exist. This opinion is therefore not explicitly supported existence
of unextended points, but admits he can walk all over them forever,
not only in the ideal order but also in real, for the divisibility
no claims of ideas, but of matter itself.

Congratulations to our experience have a limit on the division, but the divisibility itself
is not a being endowed with more resources than we could bring more division there, on this
scale there are no limits, then as a last resort where we are with
God infinite power division can lead to infinity, as seen in Infinite
Intelligence an instant all those parts that would make the division.

Now, regardless of the difficulties that are subject to an opinion which seems to assume the
existence of that which refuses, ask if all the geometric accuracy may require more rigorously
than is in the points which would come to the almighty infinite consider exercising divider
action for all eternity, or in other terms, parts seen by the infinite intelligence in an infinitely
divisible. This does not only satisfies our imagination and our ideas with regard to accuracy,
but seems to go beyond what they achieved. Experience teaches us that to imagine a point unextended
it is impossible: and to think in purely intellectual, is no more than conceive the possibility of
the infinite divisibility suddenly placed in the final analysis: certainly end is still far from
that in which the set, not the abstraction, but the vision of infinite
intelligence.

If there is a geometric point, there is a geometric line, which is no more than a series of unextended
points, or if we are not recognizing this quality, a series of extremes to which the division
is about continuing to infinity.

The set of geometric lines form surfaces, that of these the solid line being found, and in nature
and in its formation, the real order of the ideal.

[34.] This theory of geometry made, embraces all the sciences that aim to nature. When one says
for example that the reality does not correspond exactly to the theories
of mechanics, it comes with a lot of impropriety: it should say rather
that it is not reality that fails, but the means to experience, what
is attributed to the fact should be attributed to the limitation of
our experience.

The center of gravity on a body is the point at which converge all
the forces of gravitation found in the same body. The mechanics of
this point is indivisible, and under to such a case, establishes and
proves his theorems and poses and solves their problems