 Otherwise you would not believe: the labyrinth of cattle down, and the gathering of
up after praying the Rosary, rare is the night we went to bed early ... And You see, you'll
see, pispajo! how we live here, but montunos and poor, the wealthy use City ... "So entendístelo,
Marmitón? Well, Jorrios! While you're jartu, and his house which does.

Levantámonos all thanked the priest, and faithfully fulfilled We replied, and went with Don
Pedro Nolasco, not without making me see the stars again with the handshakes I got for dismissal.

Shortly
thereafter, I locked myself in my room, paseábame over him trying
to think in many things without actually thinking based on anything
I do not know if it really did not want, or because he could not think
otherwise.

With this darkness in my brain and the continuous hum River in Glen, I finally feel sleepy,
and went to bed.

Clean white clothes like the sun was my bed, but how cold ... and
how hard I found it!

V

However, I slept all night in one fell swoop, but dreaming a lot and many things each more
extravagant. I remember that I dreamed of the bear the Port, with gorges and ravines they had
no end, and so narrow throat, I could not even walk by them in sideways. Persisted in fleeing
the fierce pass that I was swaying on his feet back and licking his nose, forcing both wedge my body,
which stirred the mountains at their bases and ranged up there, high up! the rocky peaks, and even
collapsed many of them on me, but without hurting myself. I also dreamed my uncle dancing in
the kitchen by the fire, some women seguidillas gray singing ringing a large skillet; and then
with Don Pedro Nolasco, who ate raw calves and birch logs and rocks Bardales granite, while
they were eating up to me, fiber to fiber and little by little, the Boredom and Melancholia,
one of the most horrible marriage, who lived at the bottom of an
abyss end anywhere.

Perhaps because that was my last dream of the night, was so sad I wake up in the morning. Because
it was really sad! But I slept with wary curiosity to know sight of land they had voluntarily
bury, and feeling suddenly revive that strong desire to see a bit of light filtering through
the cracks of the doors, I rose quickly, Laverne shivering in the
shelter envolvíme thickest of the various I had at my disposal, and
looked at the same balcony that I had looked at night.

The rain had stopped, but he was the wretched remnant of sky was visible
from there a heightened head full of clouds passing at full speed
over the rock border disappeared over the roof of the house