 Traders and other targets found by chance in mission, usually take part
in these amusements, courting the dancers, who dare a bit when it's punch, and are not to pray
and to perform the different dances used in Santa Cruz.

Bolivians white van traveling in the province in canoes made from a single hollowed log: These vessels
are generally nine to twelve yards long, on one or two wide, are very low in the middle board
and rarely, being charged, beyond two or three inches to the surface of the waves, and so that
the minor crash into a tree floating water enters them in abundance. The canoes of a regular size
generally recognized four or five trunks, and at most three passengers to take cover from the sun or
from bad weather under a canopy of leather where you can barely sit. The number of rowers VARIES the
length of the vessel, to direct, remain standing in the rear the captain Canoe and his assistant,
two other Indians are sitting on the opposite extremity, being careful prevent and avoid pregnancy.
The rowers, placed in the middle of them two by two, do not leave hand throughout the day's
big and wide paddles which serve to promote small boat. All these Indians begins the day with
a swim, and scratch the day are already underway: the top to make about eight for lunch, and
before going any further take a second bathroom. At noon they stop again for an hour for lunch,
and then navigate until evening. When the traveler is a personage of distinction, send administrators
a canoe loaded with food, where food is prepared hours to rule without detensiones waste time. In
all traffic Indians play their tasks with greater heat as possible and not given an idea of
??the lengthy care that cater to travelers, while always alert to guess and to prevent their
children wishes.

When you have to climb a river, usually go from eight to ten miles
per day, and when Vogue downstream is usually double this distance,
but this depends on the varying speed current, variable in each river,
and also of the rowers, whose skill and activity not all parts are
of equal rank.

Each nation has its particular way of paddling: the Itonama will sit and paddle with lots of precipitation;
the Cayuvava, also seated row slowly but forcefully, while the Baures remain standing as if more
Drive to the oars. Of all these nations the Cayuvava are more famous rowers, and try to preserve
their reputation, striving to excel in speed to all vessels foreigners who are on their way.
These natives have a habit of bathing three times a day when they go on journey, to practice,
they stop suddenly, thrown into the water, dive and return, to peel his shirt dress, then continued
walking. All Once Moxos come to bathe, teach their backs covered with scars that appear to
burns, and which are simply the result of the flogging of Holy Week. Among them manifest themselves proud
of carrying such signs on their bodies, mocking with certain irony for those who do not.

When the weather is beautiful, the heat which prevails to this noon in the narrow callegon formed
by flakes and ancient trees that adorn the banks of rivers, never come to be tempered by the
slightest breeze and passengers, the traveler then throwing less vivifying air of the past week,
want the night with impatience, but as soon as This involves land, dense vapors rising from
the river, and is a very wet morning as if it had rained all night
tough.

When it rains during the day with no storm, leaving thousands of mosquitoes forests, and taking
refuge in canoes, torture to the poor travelers, who too suffer such discomfort at night. If
time becomes extremely bad, the Indians built a hut haste cane under which the travelers to
get insured against the torrents of rain, and if this continues, They also built for spacious
cabins, so that in a few moments becomes camp in a hamlet where many days remain until the
wind subsides. The waves that promote strong winds in the large rivers are not, as we have said,
the only danger to which the traveler is nswer passing through those places. Sandy gullies derrepente
usually subside over the water, dragging down one of the giant trees that stand on the banks,
whose roots are huge behind a huge mass of land. If all this debris falling by chance on fragile
boat, make it disappear completely, but when this happens, would be sufficient to make waves
capsized the projection, which excite such collapses within waves.

Sometimes up rivers in the rainy season, the Indian venture to go through among the arms that
form the islands, where the current is less evident fast, however, these arms are often found
in their shots blocked by thick trunks that have piled up the waters, if the rowers trying to
save the way they get by small narrow where the current is very impetuous, tangle the canoe
through the branches, and is filled water at a time: just alarmed are cast into the river
course, and I swam, and Bolivia on the branches, holding the boat without sinking, until they
reach their assistance in the other canoes. It is on such occasions when the superstitious Cayuvava
demolish an ear of corn in thanksgiving to the supreme providence
for having liberated the danger.

If these journeys are painful for the Spanish, they are still much more to the poor Indians,
ESPONSE TO the weather constantly, and often forced to spend the night in floodplains, suspended
over water in their hammocks.

Countless pieces of vegetation, hidden beneath the waters, they often capsize canoes: Then
the Indians detiénense on some sandbar to put out the merchandise. Very rarely get any Indian
to perish in these trances, they all swim like if waves were his natural element. But there
are other dangers to which his life is in such esponse Voyages: cite
as a major encounter with the tigers.

When they discover about Beaches traces of this beast, immediately raised his camp, going to
seek not further the comprehensive security, and if in the middle of the night, hear their
roars, go to immediately collect all the firewood they can and large
lit bonfires, but this is not always the take cover against the fatal
accidents, especially when the expedition consists ne more than Indians.

Magdalena A manager had sent in one occasion a few Indians to go and collect the cuttings in the
woods of a tree, which provides ash eSCelente for a potash soap factory. Many days that these
Indians had entirely unarmed, were camped and cons to your job, when suddenly there was a night
among them a hungry tiger, and throwing himself on an Indian lay asleep in his hammock, I had
to devour far from there, however, afraid the tumultuous cries of the other Indians awoke to the
cries of the victim, threw to run, stranding the poor Indian head pieces and with very few
moments of life. This is like a reproach to the absurd extent that, under the pretext of avoiding
quarrels with the whites, prohibited [1] to carry weapons to men constantly nswers to the greatest
dangers in the midst of those deserts, whose empire still belongs to animals fierce. It is noteworthy
that the tiger never enviste to people whose head can not see, and not a single example of any
traveler, be well hidden under his mosquito net, there victim died of his hunger.

The banks of the Mamore, usually very quiet, come once a year to spend countless canoes that
go together Moxos to Santa-Cruz, and giving to the screams echo tumultuous and gay sailors, paid
an animation whose name might be delicious. Made I happen also to journey I found myself at
the time one of these expeditions. Will copy here the point of my diary that refers to this
passage.

"... More than forty boats were preparing to depart at once from the port of Loreto, composing
a veritable fleet. Priests and traders who were incorporated into the expedition, they wanted I
ordered me to lead the way, traveling in company, and how could practice better, since my rowers
were the ablest, of course I accepted the honor they gave me. At the end of the day we stopped
for the night on a roomy bench Sandy, not far from a forest.

Then I was taken to enjoy a promising perspective, canoes as they came slowly and successively
greeted by triumphant shouts or derision of those who speak in advance. All Indians then scattered
into the forest, and bringing back wood, some with canes that armed beds for travelers, and
symmetric key stakes thick on the ground to suspend, for separate groups the beds belonging to the
rowers in each boat: in the center of these groups went on a fire,
and the outside parle shone at intervals, and other fires where making
dinner.

"

"Our camp, which brought together over six hundred people, had the most curious aspect I could
imagine. They spoke to him almost all the languages ??of the province, without being confused
each other different nations. All the white people had gathered in the center while here and
there, the Baures, the Itonama, the Movimas, the Cayuvava, the Canichana Moxos and forming
various groups, conversing in their respective dialects. The little beach transuto lonely before
the theater was the most animated. Each group of white beds, hanging around a bonfire, in contrast
with the nets of travelers and the row of canoes which extended majestically along the banks
[1]: sitting all on the beach after dinner in the community, raising thousands cheerful conversation,
to which the strangeness of different lenguages ??was more originality. Each individual, away Moxos,
was already escento fears and let your tongue go free, the indiscretions of the one giving
rise to the recriminations of the other, so they were revealed in
That night all the secrets about the private conduct of employees,
and I knew most things In one hour, which in some months in the province.

"

"Finished dinner, all the Indians gathered as usual to pray in community. These religious songs
so many times I had been pleasantly surprised in the midst of those wilderness, sounded to my ear
at that time with such disagreement, I had to retire to one side, and could not be less than
the confusion of those different intonations dialects, which occurred all at once in the silence
of the night. The Indians, without covering with other clothes that their tipois, lie in their
hammocks, and spend the night ESPONSE TO THE fierce mosquito bites, and especially the heavy dew
that falls in the regions hot on the banks of rivers. Hardly bay day, rise and, after hook their
hammocks, sing in chorus and the more reflective the appeal of the morning. "

When traveling with an entourage consisting of a single nation, and that is high in the forest
the banks, these prayers of the night often have inexplicable charm. I can not spare to bring
the case to the expression recorded in my diary of the sensations
that the solemnity of such an act once printed in my mind.

"The night was certainly one of the darker, and the gloom seemed even more under the arch formed
by the thick foliage. Shone distance away in the fires of the Indians encamped, spreading clarity
uncertain about the objects around us and giving a wild magical colorful enclosure. A thing
of my seventy-eight Indians in chorus sang their hymns, which in the silence of the night,
in those places took a character that I felt so much majesty deeply moved, I had never seemed so
simple at the same time imposing: his duration was too short for my bliss, and long after
they had ceased, still looking for my ear their mystic chords. Took possession of my mind a sweet
melancholy are harmonious with the vagueness of my thoughts and especially with the respect
they inspired me virginal beauty of those places.

Very soon my fellow surrendered journey the rest, the fires were extinguished; grew dark, and
majestic silence of the jungle was scarcely interrupted by the rustling of the leaves slightly choppy
in the treetops, or by the murmur of the waters. Only I had stayed up and can not forget the
happy impressions of this evening, whose memory has been more than once to delight hereinafter
my spirit again. "

The dress worn by Indian moxeños to travel, consists only of a very long shirt sleeveless, made
from the bark of bibosi abounds, as noted, on the banks of Mamore, mainly below the Exaltation:
the bark of a species of moral, which located on the shores of all rivers of the country neighbors
Yuracares, also serves for the same. When passing the Indians for such spot, provided always
stop for shirts, echoing throughout the woods for a few moments with the ax retail and the noise
made by falling trees blows to the strongman. Preferably Elígense those newer and less knotty,
first cut a piece to recognize its quality. Once on the ground as the tree chosen, is cut off
the branches, saying then on trunk length of each sleeve by a circular incision, after having
practiced a longitudinal opening, is inserted under the bark a small stick, or smooth and sharp,
to detach from the woody portion without tearing. After this operation, shirt is a cut whose extremity
is necessary to turn to outside in order to separate the exterior, rough and hard, from the inner,
white and compact. However, still lack the preparation work, nothing expensive by the way, and
that comes from follows.

Every Indian Forest brings a piece of tree on which it stands, on the bank of the river, the crust
should be prepared; and provided with a square hammer, grooved transversely, beats on it strongly,
with one hand as soon as soon with the other to detach from each other all the fiber after
having maceado on both sides, stretched, followed by washing in the river, then back to macearla
still for a few moments, and finally extends like a piece of canvas, no more missing, so the shirt
can fill your office, but sew up the sides and make an opening to pass the head.

There in the country of a plant called Itiro Yuracares, which are served to Moxos a purple dye eSCelente
these shirts. When the crusts are already prepared, the bend in a particular way to soak in
that after dyeing, resulting from disposition of the folds, boxes near perfectly equal. All sailors
INDIGENOUS that flow from that country carry this purple shirt, and from afar would think seeing
them is a choir bishops.

If these raids come to find two boats of the same nation, the Indians divided each other, with
a detachment fraternal, everything they have: truth is that they all considered as members
of one family when they came from the same nation.

The unfortunate Indians enjoy in Moxos a lot less freedom than in Chiquitos, having no one day you
can have at his own discretion, since the days of rest on Sundays and other holiday, are entirely
devoted to religious practices. The remaining year are assumed to be occupied for the State, if not
actually make it work tirelessly for the benefit of employees, keeping them, in work requirements,
still less consideration to the women, who resent it, from being
sterilized early.

Never has been greater slavery and despotism under a Liberal government. It should be noted that
before 1832 the chiefs of the republic completely ignored what happened in the provinces away
from the center, considered in some ways as private possessions of employees to whose interests
the little picture much zeal manifested by the supreme rulers.

Every fortnight is distributed in a number of cotton seeds, giving
them each a flake india twenty ounces to around fifteen days should
this file yarn.

Delivery will be made as follows. Placed the chief in front of the school with some scales to
check if the ball of thread, which deposes every entering India has the required weight of four
ounces.

As they pass under the Indian instálanse runners to wind thread: completed this operation, the
re-call list to verify again the weight and also refinement, giving it lashes at the present
too thick. Get after each india, in exchange for his ball of string, a piece of soap produced
in the same mission. In Chiquitos and not punished to the women from the time he administered
the province governor Don Marcelino de la Peña. In Moxos employee greed perpetuated and even
increased Draconian punishment to the natives, and the slightest fault or by the mere whim an
administrator, a priest or a chieftain, when not tied to a pole make them lie belly to flog. There
are examples of Indians who have been punished for having distracted and non welcomed the chief.

As Moxos cattle abound in every fifteen days, in the day Saturday,
is a distribution meat.

Are killed regularly from fifteen to twenty animals, according to the population of missions.
To proceed to this distribution, established by the Jesuits, lead herders slaughtered on the number
of animals is necessary, and after they are slaughtered, make as many servings are few families,
then placing in rows on piebles lying on the ground, all these parts. The chief one hand and
the other given Alferes the voice to the interpreters to call in sections, first to all married women,
then widows, single women and then to the children who came to take their ration from by two rows
of prosecutors armed with a whip to keep the order, which is strictly observed.

Great fun on these occasions to see the familiarity of gallinasos, these parasites the civilized
and savage man, who come with incredible courage as if calling also his part, mingling with the
Indians and often quarreling with them pocesion a piece of meat. One of these birds, which
was the band's boldest, most known for some signals, particularly that lame, always attended distributions
Concepcion. Scarcely appeared in the air, with shouts of joy saludábanlo all Indians for whom it
was already an object of fun, so it was never made the slightest
damage.

This Welcome guest had not failed once in the space of ten consecutive years and was already so
spoiled that carried the meat to the baskets of the Indians.

The day they celebrate the feast of the mission, they doubled the Indians regular rations: Administrators
have the privilege of having meanwhile fresh meat every two days. All this consumption met
the extraordinary that provision is made for canoes, when People traveling to a category, each
mission has a total of just more or less than five hundred to nine hundred head per year.

Baures in the mission and that of Carmen, a tradition still seen as entirely forgotten in the
other missions.

When it any traveler of distinction, all indigenous will visit the day after Sunday Mass, carrying
each a present, which is cocoa, vanilla, monkey fur, ducks, chickens, or anything else you can call
the attention of the stranger, who in turn must correspond with other gifts, but if fame bulking
their donations, the whole town was gathered together at their doors, and I must rely a prosecutor
to put an end to such an assault in nonsense.

The women use the tipoi [1] without any adornment, but a very fine fabric, some of them pintorreado
usually wear black.