 

This is the name which the natives have given the nation more war, more terrible and abnormal
found in the province of Moxos. The Spanish living in the provinces surrounding not designated
by another name: the Jesuits were called Canicianas [1].

If we give credence to the traditions, the nation Canichana lived on the banks of Mamore, near
the rapids that give rise to Rio Machupo, and also over the course of the same, stretching out to
where now stands the Mission San-Joaquin. Still noticeable on the western plains of Machupo,
between San-Joaquin and San-Ramon, the trenches These Indians had built to ward off their enemies.
His many populations [1] were between 13 and 14 degrees south latitude and longitude 67 and
68 west of Paris, and though entirely isolated from all its neighbors, always kept guard against
his wiles, bordered to the east with Itonama, west and north The Ites, south to Moxos, and the
north-west with the Cayuvava.

The complexion of the Canichana, more brown than the Moxos, is little
more or less like that of the Chapacuras.

As high as Moxos, height usually comes to five feet and two inches. The wives are small in proportion
to the height of men.

Their body shapes, identical to those of the Moxos, are somewhat more plump and less desvahidas;
have broad shoulders and stalwart members reveal their strength, without thorough exposure to
obesity. The women in the same proportions that are noticed between Moxos.

Far away are the Canichana to have as open and above a face covered sweetness, his appearance
is ferocious and hard, his big head, his face like that of the oblong Tuffs from Gran-Chaco, have
very pronounced cheekbones, tiny and bent his forehead; wide nose, short and flat, and the windows
wide open, big mouth, her lips thick, deep-set eyes, small and inclined to the upper extremity
to its angle; girls ears, eyebrows arched, his hair and beard as well as other indigenous Moxos
province. His face is sad and disgusting ugliness, but rather squeezes state ferocity savage
gloom.

The women have not the least attractive; They find the same traits in men: among also notice
the absence of the gaiety and joy in the meantime carry on their faces the banner of the malignancy
and indiscipline.

The language of the Canichana, which does not contain a word like unto those of other languages
??of the province, is musical, very sharp, and hard at the hearing a few times guttural sounds
of certain words are composed of many consonants together as jl, tz, ts. Almost every word ends in
a vowel: esceptúanse some whose endings in ac, ec, ip, ij and ch are very rough. The Spanish
j is used frequently and keeps all its hardness, especially when coupled with the l, as in the
syllable jla. The nasal or does not exist and sounds of the x and f are unknown, whereas it
is much use of the French ch and Spanish. Canichana language is perhaps the one with more abnormalities
as to the how first the words. If Chiquitos languages ??the names of the parties the body begin
with a letter, noticing the same singularity in the language of Canichana, as seen in the names
eicokena (cheek), encomete (ear), Culot (eyes) this being common to everything about the man's physical.
There is however an anomaly still more singular, and that the names of all material objects belonging
to animals, plants, minerals, and also to the stars, invariable principle the letter n, such as Nicole
(mono), nitij (cotton), nisep (lake), nicojli (sun). The other consonants are used only pronouns, verbs,
etc. Adjectives belong to both genders.

The numbering system reaches only three. Finally, the pronunciation is very similar to that of the
Moximas and Itonama.

The character of these Indians is as strange as his face and his language, far from being sociable
and full of candor as the Moxos, or cowardly as the Itonama, is bold by others, entrepreneurial,
independent, cold, concealed, sad, sullen, unsociable, and Yet little squeamish. Inclined
to theft as Itonama, more daring steal so as with the consciousness of being feared by other
nations, to the extreme that to let them get away with sack in their populations. Justice must
meanwhile hacerseles a beautiful garment, its consequence and fidelity,
that they have given repeated tests.

But to Despite this, no longer be considered as a wonderful fact, that with such a character
so easily have been subjected to the yoke of the Jesuits.

According to reports I have collected, their customs should be extremely warlike. Had forts
surrounded by ditches, which lived some of the nation, operating from there incursions into
the territory of its neighbors, Itenes, the Cayuvava and Itonama: latter were mainly the most
persecuted, for being the least countered their strength. If we give credence to some relationships,
the prisoners who fell into the hands of These Indians were eaten by them in solemn feasts.
Mainly dedicated to fishing and to the game, neglected agriculture,
its industry consisted only in the construction canoes and the manufacture
of weapons were much given to drink and they made use of liquor fermented.

Vestíanse just as other nations in the province.

Noticing in particular the fast rigorous customs of eight days which required girls entering
the marriageable age, and rejoicing and celebrating libation then
this happy event.

The fear that they inspired an evil genius named Yinijama, was the main base of their religion.

As
to the skin, shapes and height, Canichana not deviate from the Moxos: for With regard to customs
and to the face, they seem rather to the Toba and Mbocobis of Chaco. The singularities of language
puts them in parallel with and Chiquiteños Moxos. I, finally, that belong to the branch moxeño
Canichana but that is an anomaly the more strange, since they are surrounded by people who meet a
remarkable character uniformity in all its physical connections.

NATION OF CAPTURE.

By the time of the conquest of the province of Moxos, inhabited the plains Movimas west of the Mamore,
on the banks of Yacuma, as 14 degrees latitude south, and between 68 and 69 west of Paris.
They were still divided in many villages located on the banks of
rivers, and were neighbors to the south and southwest to the Moxos,
towards the east to the Canichana, and north to the Cayuvava, separating
them from those nations floodplain forests and spacious.

The complexion of the Movimas is identical to that of the Moxos.

Their average height is five feet and two and a half inches, they are usually arrogant presence,
both men and the women, there are girls of sixteen to seventeen over
can compete with men in strength and bravery.

The ordinary height of wives is five feet, thus far superior to the proportion that should save
with men.

The shapes of the Movimas are at least as robust as those of Moxos, and entirely the same as
to the details, with the only difference being that the women involved something from those of men.
The features of his face, filled with more sweetness, also the similar
to those Indians, there is however a large number of women, who not
only have a manly, but no such delicate features that characterize
the male of this nation, usually the Movimas nose is a bit wider than
that of the Moxos.

The language of the Movimas, but different from the others in the province on the merits, looks
like a lot, the hardness of their sounds and the difficulty of their pronunciation, that of
Canichana and Itonama, with maybe even harder than these. Is also in the composition of their
words many consonants together as tch, ch, chl, jn, jl, jr, LJ and ts, which produce sounds very harsh,
almost all the voices end in a vowel, the very few that deviate from the rule, ending in the consonants
l, n, w, p, s, ch ch French and Spanish. Often used the Spanish j, or nasal and the f are
unknown. For the rest, language does not offer this apparent anomaly:
the adjectives fit to both genders.

The numbering system is no more than four, nor have any relation with the number of fingers.

The nature of the Movimas, that all seems to of Moxos, is animated by an excessive goodness and
more pronounced instinct of sociability. Judging from their current way of living, customs
should be also identical to those of Moxos, consisting of their occupations in fishing, sailing,
hunting and agriculture. Its industry, its governmental system and likens religion to the nation
even mentioned. The evil genius, which determined their misfortunes, was called Caniba Kilmer.
Fearing covered with leprosy, these Indians never killed a snake,
and those widowed were kept well to kill a leopard, persuaded that
if they did, they too succumb.

Finally, the total compliance of physical and moral circumstances
that exists between Movimas and Moxos, tear me to believe that both
nations to the same branch, not differentiating but by an entirely
different language, and perhaps by the more or less body strength.

Cayuvava NATION [1]

This nation lived on the west bank of the Mamore, fifteen leagues above the confluence of this
river with Guaporé or Iten, on those plains interspersed with marshes and small boscages that
characterize those fields. Spread over the Cayuvava Vivian small tribes, whose populations
it spread on the banks of that great river, and small tributaries of the western plains [2],
between 12 and 13 degrees latitude south, and towards the 68 west longitude from Paris. They had
for neighbors to the south to the Movimas, Itenes to the east, to
the Kings Maropas towards the west, to the Pacaguaras Beni River towards
the north, being separated, particularly the latter two nations, by
dilatadísimos deserts [3].

For the complexion, the high carriage of the men, their robust forms, its members burly, his
features regular and graceful, her countenance sweet, Cayuvava resemble
Moxos and if your general aspect is covered with a little more seriously,
the rest meet every physical character of this nation.

Cayuvava language differs from other dialects of the province at the bottom of the words, as
though it has some analogy with Itonama languages, and Movima Canichana by the roughness of many
sounds, however, is more euphonious. The complication of sound consonants together too often: the
consonants together and dj dx, prefixed to members, is a bit hard, however, the second consonant
sound always remains soft pronunciation of French or Spanish. Also be warned, among the sounds
peculiar to the tongue, nasal or weakly, the x, to move, the ch and some completions and an ain, the
only noticeable at the end of a limited number of voices, they all invariably end up in a vowel. The
guttural sound of the Spanish j is very common, and the ch of this language, missing only the l
in the alphabet of the language, otherwise free of anomalies. Adjectives adhere to both genders.
The counting system has no relation to the number of fingers, but has a remarkable feature. The
numbers, which usually only unite to the other after ten in the Cayuvava system starts to collect
from the six. All American languages ??have different names for the units, and have then ten and
one, etc.., while Cayuvava reach up to five only, and go on to say, for six, Carat ribobo (one
and five), for the seven, Mitya ribobo (two and five), and Thus ten, beginning after the tens,
and telling all, only up to one hundred.

The nature of the Cayuvava has a lot of analogy with the Moxos, and it may well be said it is more
noble. In the extreme, courageous, bold "enterprising, industrious, honest and loyal Indian
warriors were those most feared by other nations, their weapons consisted in the bow and arrows
also drove the spear, and marched to battle organized phalanges captained
by special chiefs.

Your religion was founded on the belief of a being protector of all things, called Idaapa, and
an evil genius, author of all evil, called Mainajé. Admitted these Indians the immortality of
the soul, and as Itonama, believed duty to prevent escape death a dying body, covering her
mouth wide and nose.

The men interrupted their Monthly jobs during the indisposition of their wives, and dared not
take anything some while they were widowed.

Despite the language difference, the Cayuvava is too similar to the
Moxos in character and other physical and moral circumstances, that
do not belong to the same branch these.

NATION OF ITENE.

This nation seems to have given its name to the river coming down from this to go and meet with Mamore
towards 12 degrees south latitude. Items which occupied the territory between Itenes and Mamore
rivers, extending his thirty leagues towards the north, from the angle the reunion of these rivers:
the population was composed of small villages scattered throughout
the inland, in the middle of the woods, or on the banks of streams
that drain in the Mamore.

Circumscribed between 12 and 13 degrees south latitude, and longitude 67 and 68 West had for neighbors
to the south to the Canichana, towards the north-west to the Movimas; west to the Cayuvava.

These were no different from natural and Cayuvava Moxos, his complexion, form and features are
completely identical, would say only that her face is covered with some more seriousness.

The language of the Itenes differs from the other languages ??of the province and to the merits
the pronunciation, but some words of their dialect and the Chapacuras, whose close analogy
is the effect of chance, I do believe there was once some contact between these two nations,
without which it ceases to notice a marked difference in their own language. That of Itenes
undoubtedly is the most terse, the sweetest and euphonious language of all Americans, all words
end in a vowel, not is one that contains in its composition hard consonants. Guttural sounds and
nose are unknown, and the compounds of consonants are only of the union of b with z French, but not
unpleasant to the ear hurt. The letters f, g, j, l, x are totally strangers. No abnormality observed no
nouns, adjectives belong to the same time to the masculine and feminine. Finally, in all languages
the childs is the simplest in their pronunciation, and the more laconic
in their ways, often Broadcast one sound enough to describe an object.

The numbering system reaches only five, and has no relation to the number of fingers.

If the natural character of these bears little resemblance to that
of Moxos, bears some resemblance to that of the Canichana.

By other independent and haughty, brave to be reckless, indomitable warriors, not between them
lacked candor and kindness.

Intrepid hunters and fishermen tireless, are both good farmers. These Indians never were cannibals.

Its
industry was limited to little. Sabian protect and painting, but his greatest skill lay in the
manufacture of weapons, their arrows had a bone at the tip very sharp, and were adorned with
thousands of curious work.

Their canoes were, like today, very long and narrow, their drinks similar to those of the other
Indians of the province had their faces painted, and on days gala
head adorned with feathers artfully arranged.

In fact, his government was reduced to nothing: the chiefs had no authority, and charge was limited
to captain the hosts who were heading into battle.

All your religion was founded on the fear instilled in them an evil
genius named Tumeké.

The physical circumstances of the Itenes are entirely identical to those of the Moxos, their habits
make them similar to Canichana, while his language, the more soft and sonorous throughout the
province, contains, in spite of the difference in pronunciation, similar voices the language of the
Chapacuras. Finally, Itenes clearly belong to the same branch The Moxos.

NATION OF PACAGUARAS.

The Pacaguaras, who lived at the confluence of the Beni and Mamore
river, towards 10 degrees south latitude and between 67 and 68 west
longitude, composing large populations located within the forests
that adorn the banks of these vault of rivers.

Found out, so to speak, the territory of the province, these Indians belong to those numerous
nations scattered on the banks of the Rio Madeira, and the Amazon and its tributaries. Bordered
by the south with Itenes and Cayuvava, and only relate to the past.

Her complexion is equal to that of the Moxos, his stature seems smaller, but its forms and factions
meet completely the same characters, but by gravity, breathing her face perhaps Cayuvava more
closely resemble.

If your language is different, in principle, the latter, has however some connections with it,
as regards the pronunciation, and not without its hardness some analogy
with Itonama languages, and Movima Canichana.

There is also the pacaguara complication of consonant sounds together, such as tz, ts, dj, JN, now with
the pronunciation entirely guttural Spanish, now with the soft of
the French.

Frequently Encuéntranse ch z and of these, as well as his or nose. Almost every word ending in a vowel,
and only excepting the sounds are made, ending in on, ch an and French, with none of them
is hard. The letters f, lyx is unknown. Adjectives serve at once to the two genres. The numbering
system extends only to ten, and probably agrees the number of fingers.

The nature of Pacaguaras resembles that of the Cayuvava; like this, practice hospitality, and
cherish benevolence, honesty and loyalty, linking to these virtues of fearlessness and courage.

With
respect to customs, there is also between them and a big Moxos compliance.

Constantly engaged in navigation, fishing, hunting and agriculture, remained always peaceful,
and avoided any enmity with their neighbors, living with them in
perfect harmony.

Its industry is confined to the tissue of genres for clothing, manufacturing
weapons, and the construction of canoes similar to those of the Moxos.

Their chiefs were regarded as mere advisers, his religion taught them to believe in called Huara
be beneficial, and an evil spirit known under the name of Yochina, but did not profess a religion
without.

In short, it is believed that the positively Pacaguaras belong to the branch of Moxos on account
of the similarity of physical and moral characteristics.

NATION OF CHAPACURAS [1]

The Chapacuras lived scattered on the banks of the Rio Blanco or Baures, not far from a big
lake, and amid the forests that separate the provinces of Chiquitos and Moxos beyond the last
hill of the first province, and a little more or less to 15 degrees south latitude and between
64 and 65 west longitude meridian of Paris. Had for neighbors (including those not connected
by the ex away) to the Chapacuracas and Paiconecas towards the south,
and the hordes of the tribe of the Baures north.

The complexion of the Chapacuras is tanned or greenish-brown, thus identical to that of the Chiquitos.
His stature has also some analogy with these, the median is five feet and one-half inches, the highest
not exceeding five feet and five inches. The wives kept in a relatively large size.

Their body shapes are similar to those of the Chiquitos, but the size of men seems more desvahido,
and although members have a strong build, and no visible muscles, Outgoing chest, broad shoulders,
and his whole body in the extreme, robust, not prone to obesity.

The women, better educated and more graceful than Chiquiteñas, have the hips and broad shoulders, waist,
but according to European proportions, and a feet and hands were remarkable for their smallness.

His
features are also somewhat different: both sexes are, a head large, a broad face, but less
crowded than that of the Chiquitos, bunions of the most delivered a short and slightly curved
front, a short nose, flat but rather wide, and windows wide open, mouth medium, slightly thick
lips, small eyes and horizontal ears small, narrow, arched eyebrows, black hair, long, thin
and very stiff nothing. His face is gloomy and less animated than the Chiquitos. In general,
men are ugly, and have very black beard, sparsely populated and limp, like the bozo: between wives
rarely is a regular face, but why not inspire aversion, meanwhile, the general appearance of the
two sexes captive trust, and all the sweetness in them announces.

Their language is entirely distinct from the languages ??of Chiquitos, as to the form of words
and although very hard, is pleasant to the ear: it has many voices in vocal completed, the
number of those that end in single consonants n, m, p, tyj is reduced.

The guttural the Spanish j and nasal or are often. Many consonants, such as b, f, c and x, appear
to be completely unknown, and while the French ch rare, is frequently used Spanish. In this
language is seen as in the Chiquiteños, a particularity relative
to the names of body parts, instead principles with a specific letter,
end with a uniform particle, as seen in urutarachi (Darling) taipatachi
(ear), tucuchi (eyes), objects that designate Chiquitos Quitemocas
with the words urutaraché, tatiataché and coated.

I have not noticed any distinction between male and feminine adjectives, nor a special form
for plurals. The system numbering, which only reaches to ten, no doubt based on the number of
fingers. The tribe has many terms Quitemocas entirely different from those of the language
chapacura, which perhaps comes from old relationships with any foreign
nation.

The Chapacuras, though left by temperament, have them extremely
loving nature, and predisposes them to servile obedience; hospitable
to foreigners, are perhaps Indians most sociable of the province,
even without the joy of the Chiquiteños.

Their habits are similar
to those of the natives, and lived like them, scattered small tribes
in the interior of the surrounding forests on the banks of the Rio
Blanco or Baures, seized and hunting, and cultivating the land, or
to build the thatched huts where their families lived