 Was the crowded waiting room
ladies of all kinds of wizards of all colors, judges, merchants, officials and pedantic everyone
was complaining to the minister. They said the greedy and profiteers: There is no doubt that
this guy steals the provinces; disfigured his flamboyant oddities, said the only sensual has had
his tastes, and hoped the women would soon replace him another minister more handsome.

Babuca heard all these reasons, and could not say, iQue is this man so happy! All your enemies
have them in your waiting room, their power overwhelms their envy, and looks quantos plants
to hate him. At last came into his cabinet, and saw an old man overwhelmed of years and chores,
but still alive, and very smart. Babuca Gustole because it seemed Babuca one worthy of esteem sugeto.
The conference was very interesting: the minister confessed it was most unfortunate man, who
had by rich and poor was, that he believed omnipotent and all was impaired, that all benefits had
been paid with ingratitude, and in forty years of continuous tasks had been just a bit of satisfaction.
Enterneciose Babuca, and said among themselves that if he had made some mistakes this man, and they
loved him Ituriel punish angel, dexarle enough to charge, not exterminate.

I was arguing with the minister, when I enter the beautiful lady inattentive in whose house had
Babuca eaten, showing his face and eye symptoms of pain and anger. Burst out in bitter complaints
against the statesman, shed tears, lamented bitterly that her husband had denied a charge that
could achieve on its cradle, and that they made him creditor his wounds and services and speak with
so much energy, complained with such grace, faded with mana such objections, provided eloqueencia
strengthened their reasons, that left the cabinet until having the fortune of her husband.

Salio Babuca giving his hand and said to him: Is it possible, madam, that you have taken so much
work you by a man who you want, and how much you have to be afraid? ? How is it you do not love
him? replied the lady, know that my husband is the best friend I have in this world, and that sacrificeth
quanto by all I have, as it is not my lover to do the same thing, less sacrifice his sweetheart.
I want you to know it, it's a very nice lady, very quiet, and excellent genius had dinner tonight
with my husband and my friend the magician: come to join our taste.

She took the lady with him Babuca, and the husband who was plunged into deep grief over received
to his wife in a fit of gratitude and joy, give thousand hugs to his wife, his lady, the magician,
and Babuca. The banquet is encouraged by the happy, thanks and Donayre. Know, he told him the
beautiful lady who was having dinner, which is sometimes described as almost always women without
honor possess the virtues of an honest man, and in proof of this, come dine with me tomorrow
home of the beautiful Theon. Some old Vestal whisper it, but most charities do that together herself
that the bite; not commit the slightest injustice all interests in the world, to her lover
gives advice always generous, just glory by it, and would blush if their presence on one occasion
broken? to do good, because there is no greater stimulus to virtuous actions, which have the judge
and witness of his conduct which longs for a beloved one to deserve appreciation.

Do not miss Babuca the appointment, and saw a house that was the emporium of delights. They queen
Teona, with each spoke the language he understood: his natural understanding dwell dexaba that
of others; liked almost without meaning was so kind and charitable, and to give more luster all
his skills, was very beautiful.

Babuca met since it was Scythian and sent by a genius, if more time
stopped in Persepolis, Teona would make him forget Ituriel