 

Roma tried to dissuade Deste purpose, saying that could happen sometimes Where necessary the company
and to undertake to defend, and that a person alone could not do large animals. But, even they
said, Andrew wanted to be a thief just and leading, with the intention to depart from the squad
for their money and buy something that could say that he had stolen, and on this so the least
I could load on his conscience. Using, then, in this industry, less than a month he brought more
advantage to the company that they brought drawn four of the robbers della; of that precious little
is idling, watching his so cute and tender lover thief so clear, but with all this, I was fearful
of any Unfortunately, he did not want her to see him in shame for all the treasures of Venice,
bound to that good will have you the many services and gifts that made him his Andrés.

Just over a month were in terms of Toledo, where they made their August, but was for the month
of September, and from there went into Extremadura, being land rich and hot. Andrew spent
with Precious honest, discreet and love conversations, and she soon little was falling in love
with the discretion and good treatment of his mistress, and he, likewise, could grow their
own love, was growing: such was the honesty, discretion and beauty His Precious. A wherever
he went, he took the money and the runner and bets jumping more than anyone, played bowling
and the ball extremely, pulling the bar very strong and unique skill, and finally, in a short
time his fame flew across Extremadura and there was no place where no one spoke of the gallant provision
of gypsy Andres Caballero and their thanks and skills, and the pair ran Desta fame of the beauty
of Gitanilla, and there was no town, no place or village where the parties are called to rejoice
votive yours, or for other special festivities. So he went on the horde rich, prosperous and happy.
Were # mind the Roma to go to Seville, # but said Preciosa's grandmother that she could not go because
the years had made a mockery in Seville to a gorrero called Triguillo, well known in it which
made him get into a vat of water to the neck, naked meat, and head a crown of cypress, awaiting the
stroke of midnight out of the barrel to dig and remove a great treasure that she had made him believe
he was some part of your home. He said he heard the good gorrero matins touch, not to lose
the situation is so hastily got out of the jar, which gave her and him on the floor, and hit and
bruised hooves meats, derramóse water, and he was swimming in it, and cried out that filling.
Came his wife and their neighbors with lights, and found him swimmer doing effects, blowing and
dragging his belly on the floor, and shaking hands and legs with great haste, saying in a loud
voice: "Help, gentlemen, I'm drowning" that it was fear, really thought she was drowning. Closed
with him, carried him forth of that danger, he came to, was the fun of the gypsy, and all that,
dug in the indicated more than one state in deep, despite all those who told him mine was
a lie; and if not reverse it a neighbor, who played as the foundation of his house, he would
with both his on the floor, if you stop digging everything he wanted. SUPOS this story throughout
the city, and even the boys pointed their fingers and had his credulity and my lie.

This was the old woman, and this gave an excuse for not going to Seville. Gypsies determined
twisting the road on the left.

Left, then, Extremadura and came into the Channel, and were walking slowly to the kingdom Murcia.
In all villages and places that had passed ball challenges, fencing,
running, jumping, throwing the bar and other feats of strength, dexterity
and lightness, Andrés all out winner.

# A # He woke up the horde, and went to stay in a place of jurisdiction of Murcia, three leagues
from the city, where he succeeded Andrew unfortunate that put him
in the verge of losing life, and was that, having been in that place
some cups and silver items bonds, as was his custom, Preciosa and
her grandmother, and two other gitanillas Cristina, and Andrew, were
housed in an inn of a rich widow whom he had a daughter, age ten seventeen
or eighteen years, more brash than beautiful, and more by token, called
Juana Carducha.

This, having seen dancing to the Roma people, took the devil, and proposed to take Andrew for a
husband # # if he wished, but all his relatives were weighed; and thus, sought to tell her situation
and found it in a corral, where Andrew had entered require two donkeys. The officer turned to
him, and with haste, not to be seen, said:

- Andrew - he already knew his name ---, I'm rich girl, that my mother has another child but
to me, and this restaurant is his, and amen desto, has many hawthorns, and two pairs of houses.
Make me seemed good: if I want a wife, you are, answer me quickly, and if you discreet, stay,
and we'll see what a life.

Andrew was amazed by the decision of the Carducha, and with the speed that she asked him said

-
Lady girl, I'm bespoken to marry, and Roma did not get married but Roma: God save the mercy
that I wanted to do, who I am not worthy.

It was not on two fingers of the dead fall aceda Carducha response to Andrew, who replicate
if he saw entering the corral other Roma.

Run went out and forlorn, and gladly take revenge if I could. Andrew, as a shrewd, determined
to land medium, and deviate from the time that the Devil offered
him, and thus called on all gypsies that night was from that place.

They always obey him, put him then for work, and collecting their bail that afternoon, they left.

The
Carducha ordered Andrew to be by force, and which could not level, and so, industry, sagacity,
and his bad intentions secret that taught him, placed among the jewels of Andrew she knew
by his, a rich coral and two patens of silver, with his other jumps, and had barely left the inn,
when he cried out, saying that the gypsies had stolen her jewelry, a justice whose voices came
and all the townspeople.

Gypsies halted, and all swore that nothing had been stolen and that they would patent All the
sacks and recovered from their wigwams. Desto was much vexed the old woman, fearing that in that
election did not manifest the charms of the Precious and dressed Andrew, it with great care and
caution kept, but the good of the remediated Carducha very soon all because the second envelope
that looked said he asked what was the that gipsy great dancer, she had seen entering her apartment
twice, and it could be that the carry. Andrew understood that he said it, and laughing, said:

-
Lady Maiden, this is my bedroom and this is my ass, if you halláredes in her or him what I needed,
I would pay to sevenfold, subjected to the punishment outside the law to thieves.

Came after the ministers of justice to rob the colt, and gave few laps the theft, was so shocked
that Andrew and so absorbed, that it seemed statue voiceless, hard stone.

- I never suspected it? - Said by this time the Carducha -. Look how good face masks as big a
thief!

A silent throughout Andrés, suspense and imaginative, and not just fall into the betrayal of the
Carducha. In this, he became a brave soldier, nephew of the mayor and without further raised
his hand, and gave him a blow, such that he was returning from his
reverie and made him agree not was Andrew Knight, but Don Juan and
a gentleman, and attacking the soldiers quickly secured and more anger,
he pulled his own sword from its scabbard, and sheathed in the body,
leading to He died on the ground.

[Illustration: ... he started his own sword from its scabbard, and sheathed in the body, ...]

Here was the cry of the people here amohinarse Mayor Uncle, here the faint Preciosa Andrew
and disturbed to see her faint, here come all the weapons and give after the murder. Confusion
grew, grew the yells, and turn to faint Preciosa Andres, stopped attending to his defense, finally
both loaded on Andrew, who seized and shackled him with two very
thick strings.

Well I would like the Mayor then hang him if I were in his hand;
but had to refer to Murcia, being of his JURISDICTION.

Not taken until the next day and there was Andrew spent many martyrs and insults, which the indignant
mayor and his ministers, and every place you did. Mayor caught all over Roma and Roma as he could,
because the more fled. Finally, with the summary of the case and with a large cafile Gypsies, entered
the mayor and his ministers with a lot of other armed men in Murcia, among them was precious
and poor Andrew, wrap chains, on a male, and wives and piedeamigo. Murcia went all to see the prisoners,
who already knew about death soldier. But the beauty of that day was so precious, so that
anyone watching who did not blessing, and came the news of her beauty to the ears of the magistrate,
out of curiosity to see the magistrate made her husband commanded that the gypsies did not enter
prison and all the others did, and Andrew put him in a narrow cell, whose darkly and lack Beautiful
light of you were treated that well thought out of there but not for burial. Precious took his
grandmother to the magistrate saw her and saw her and said:

- No wonder the praise of beautiful.

And when he came to himself, embraced her tenderly, and not be satisfied with looking at her and
asked her grandmother to how old the girl.

- Fifteen years - said the Gypsy - two months more or less.

- They had the unfortunate agora my Costanza. Oh, friends, that this girl has renewed my my misery!
- said the magistrate.

Took in this precious hands of the Magistrate, and besándoselas many times, they are bathed with
tears and said:

- Lady, the gypsy who is in prison is guilty because he was provoked,
called him a thief, and it is not, they gave him a slap in his face,
which is such that it is discovered the goodness of your mood.

For God and for whom you are, madam, ye will keep His righteousness, and that the Mr. Corregidor
not in a hurry to run on him the punishment that they threaten law; and if you have been given
some welcome my beauty, entretenedla to entertain the prisoner, because the end of his life
is that of mine. He has to be my husband, and fair and honest impediments have been hampered
so far not yet given us habemos hands. If money were necessary to achieve the forgiveness
of all our wigwams were sold at public auction, and will even more than they ask. My lady, if
you know what love is, and you Did you have some time, and now you have your husband, Dole's
me, tender and honestly I love mine.

While in this, came the Corregidor, and finding his wife and weeping
and chained Preciosa, was suspended, and his tears and the beauty,
asked the cause of that feeling, and the answer he gave was released
Precious hands of the magistrate and grasp of the feet the magistrate,
saying:

- Lord, mercy, mercy!

If my husband dies, I'm dead! He has no guilt; but if so, unemployment is worth to me, and if this
can not be, at least, entertain the litigation in that they seek and look for possible means of
remedy, which may be that the sin of malice not send him the health of grace heaven.

With new suspension was the magistrate to hear the reasons for the Gitanilla discrete, and and,
if not for not giving signs of weakness, to accompany him in his tears. While this happened,
the old woman was considered large, many different things, and after of any such suspension
and imagination, said:

- Wait for me your worships, gentlemen, a little, that I will make these tears become laughter,
but to me it costs me my life.

And so, with a slight step out of where I was, leaving the audience confused with what said he.
While, therefore, that she came back, never let the tears and Precious
pleas they entertain the cause of her husband, intending to warn his
father, who came to hear it.

Roma turned to a small box under his arm, and said to Corregidor with his wife and she should
retire to a room, he had great things to say in secret. The magistrate, believing that some
theft of Gypsies would discover, for suitable to have him in the suit of the prisoner, when she
retired with her and with his wife in their chamber, where the gypsy, kneeling on his knees before
the two, he said,

- If the good news that I wish you, gentlemen, do not attain good news we deserve forgiveness
a great sin of mine, I am here for taking his punishment you please
give me, but before I confess you tell me, gentlemen, first, if you
know these gems.

And discovering a cofrecico where they came from the Preciosa, was
put in the hands of the magistrate, and opening it, saw those childish
charms, but they could not fall mean.

Had respect unto also the magistrate, but neither gave the following account: only said:

- These are some small creature ornaments.

- That is true - said Gypsy -, and what creature are you saying that is written the folded paper.

He
opened with haste the magistrate, and he read that said, "the girl
was called Dona Costanza de Azevedo and Meneses, his mother, Dona
Guiomar de Meneses, and his father, Don Fernando de Azevedo, sir the
habit of Calatrava.

Desparecíla day of the Ascension, at eight o'clock, one thousand and five hundred and ninety-five.
He brought the girl made these leaps in this Chest are kept. "

The magistrate had hardly heard the reasons for the paper, he recognized the trinkets, they are
put in their mouths and giving endless kisses, she fell unconscious.

She went to the magistrate, rather than ask the gypsy by her daughter, and having regained
consciousness, said:

- Women's good angel before Roma, where is the owner, say, the creature which was these pendants?

-
Where to, ma'am?

"- Said the Gypsy -. In your home you have: that gypsy I got tears in their eyes is his owner,
and is no doubt your daughter, that I Madrid theft of your house on the day and time that
the paper says.

Hearing this, the troubled lady, let go of the slippers, and desalted and running out into the room
where Precious had left and found her surrounded by her maids and servants, still crying attacked
her, and without saying anything, with great haste undid his chest and looked if he had a sign
small, like a lunar white, he was born, and found him already great, that over time had increased.
Then with the same promptness, his shoes and discovered a foot of snow and ivory, made around,
and saw in him what he wanted, which was that the two last fingers of the wedging of the right
foot with one another by a bit of flesh, which, when girl, had never wanted to cut, for not
giving grief. The chest, fingers, bounds, on the appointed day of the robbery, the confession
of the gypsy, and the shock and joy had received any parent when they saw her, in all truth confirmed
in the soul of the magistrate be precious daughter, and so, taking her in his arms, turned to
her where the Corregidor and Roma were.

Precious was confused, not knowing what EFET had done with it such proceedings, and more seeing
lead in the arms of the magistrate, and gave him a kiss up to one
hundred.

Arrived, finally, with the precious cargo Dona Guiomar to the presence of her husband, and transferred
his arms to the magistrate, said:

- Acorn, sir, for your daughter Costanza, that this is no doubt: no doubt it, sir, no mode,
the signal of the fingers together and the chest I've seen, and more, that is it for me saying
the soul from the moment that my eyes saw.

- No doubt - said the
magistrate, holding in his arms Preciosa -; that they EFET mine have
gone through that for yours, and more, so many punctuations together,
how could happen, if not for a miracle?

Everyone was walking home absorbed, asking each other what could
be, and all gave well away from the target, that had to imagine who
the Gitanilla was the daughter of their masters