 Sucre then placed his force across the mountains of Chimborazo in Mocha village,
located in the parallel of Riobamba, and both armies continued their journey until, finding in
Guachi on 12 September, engaged a fierce battle, the Republican leader, despite his courage
and the carnage caused the enemy was defeated with considerable losses.

After these two months of this ill-fated war action, according to proposal of Sucre Aymeric granted
a suspension of arms of ninety days, during which the general Republican who was worshiped in the country
for its virtues had to prepare and recruit people in order reappeared in his day more formidable
than before.

CHAPTER X

First Congress of Colombia .-- This waiver does not support it .-- Publication of Bolivar the
Constitution of Colombia .-- Punishment of law policy of the State of Bolivar for Election
.-- the presidency of the Congress Project .-- Preparations .-- Peru free up .-- Pass Sucre by the western
mountains .-- Occupation of the Province of Loja open the hood .-- Quito .-- Entry liberating
army in Pasto Sucre Conquests .-- .-- .-- Battle of Pichincha Word Association Cheers Quito .--
.-- .-- Peru offer made to interview Bolivar and San Martin .-- State
Peru Congress .-- Reunion .-- Expedition to Colombia Maracaibo Naval
Combat .-- .-- Fortune shown favorable to Morales Republic .-- .--
Capitulation of Venezuela is free.

By a decree of Roscius, issued in Angostura on November 9, 1820, to May 6 Next year the first
Congress of Colombia was installed in the town of Rosario de Cucuta, with deputies elected freely
and legally emancipated provinces the power of Spain, whose number was twenty-two between Venezuela
and New Granada. Its principle dealing with the resignation Bolivar had made of his office politics,
and determined: that this loyal and selfless patriot, while giving
the state a definitive government means of a Constitution, continue
as to where the action in the performance of their duties.

Finally, on July 12, 1821, after the battle of Carabobo, the Basic Law was published that, under
the name of Republic of Colombia, met in a single national body to Venezuela and New Grenada with
a representative popular government, declaring his independence from all foreign domination
and all particular domain, and dividing the exercise of power supreme legislative, executive
and judicial.

Santa Fe de Bogota was declared the capital to Therefore, in better times, a city erected to that
effect with the name of the Liberator Bolivar.

August 30 was enshrined by the Constitution of the State, which differed from previous in some
essential points. The senators were not tenured, according to all charges Public choice principles
of periodic and alternative, and the executive would be exercised by a single individual. Among
the important laws given to the country had two, one 19 and another July 28, two notables. The first
stated that since the day of its publication is Free considered children that are begotten of slaves,
the other all the convents suppressed of regulars who did not have at least eight religious mass
on the same date, whichever National Education for all goods and
property, rights and remedies legacy communities who may be covered
by the Act.

This makes exception for the hospital, considered the usefulness of their services.

On 7 September, according to the power that the Constitution granted to Congress to appoint for
the first time the offices of President and Vice-President, the choice fell on Bolivar and Santander,
that for the first of these jobs and this for the second. Then, with date October 2, another
law dividing the territory into seven departments, which were: Orinoco, Venezuela, Zulia, Boyaca,
Cundinamarca, Cauca and Magdalena, and other various jobs after high Legislative body, leaving
Santander in front of the administration, the Liberator departed
Cucuta to Bogota, to make arrangements for the bell had projected
towards the Sud

So ended this year, fertile in remarkable events,
and in the first days of January the next, 1822, in accordance with
an executive order, the reunion of the military command was established
in the departments of Venezuela, Orinoco and Zulia.

Gen. Carlos Soublette, with the office of mayor, was the first front the direction of the war,
and Paez as commanding general of the same; Bermudez in the Orinoco, and Lino Clemente in Zulia.
Bolivar at this time was headed to Cali Popayan to await the forces that intend to give start
to the campaign of Quito. While this is done, and next to expire within three months of armistice
Sucre crossed the western mountains on February 9 and took to Zaragoza in the province Loja,
at which point the troops sent by the dictator of Peru San Martin came to meet.

Open the hood of Quito, heading towards Pasto, the Liberator blight in the Bottle troops under the leadership
of Don Basilio Garcia on March 7, but had to mourn the loss General Pedro Leon Torres. On June
8, entered victorious in Pasto, with prisoner Garcia and the troops who had been to this boss
Spanish.

Activity is both Sucre and Aymeric Batian fiercely on the side of Guayaquil, seizing the first,
one after another, Basin populations and Alausi, having to fight forever against superior forces
in number. Riobamba was taking place after April 22, after a brilliant battle Sucre which gave
further evidence of his good military skills.

Turubamba the plains of this city is headed to Quito, situated at the foot of achieving the heights
which form the crest of Pichincha among the peoples of Chillogallo and Magdalena thus flanking
and behind the enemy.

Hastened away during the night of 23 Mayo, and the next day, to the surprise of his opponents
mocked, appeared on the mountain, where they tried to evict those, but completely defeated and
lacking insurance shelter, surrendered by capitulation, the city of Quito on May 25, the day
when 280 albergo years before it first Spanish weapons. Aymeric, with the rest of their troops
remained in the hands of Sucre, the victor in the battle of Pichincha. Four days after citizens
of the conquered capital formally ratified the pact of union between Quito, Venezuela and New
Granada.

The surrender of Pasto and Quito assured freedom in a vast and beautiful country, no hitherto trod
by Republican plants, remained in the hands of Sucre 14 pieces of
artillery, 1,260 prisoners, of which 160 belonged to the officer class,
and finally, rifles and how many elements of war possessed enemies.

Shortly after taking the capital of this rich province, ie June 15, Bolivar entered it preceded
the warmest and expressive tokens of appreciation and enthusiasm of the people of transit. From here
he moved Guayaquil, where the shouts of joy were reproduced from then to Cuenca, from which
point put at the disposal of the government of Peru is a division of 4,000 Colombians.

San Martin ran to find Bolivar, and July 25 in Guayaquil embraced two brave warriors, having started
from both ends of the New World, were to confer about the independence of his country under the
burning sun of Ecuador.

Three days passed together these two American heroes, not a single moment they saw one without
the other, but the outcome of his talks remained shrouded in mystery night. Only known that Interviews
though the most attentive kingdom cordiality between them, their separation, however, were not those
that the friendship reveals the outpouring of enthusiasm or the tenderness of a Live affection.
Among the political ideas of these two eminent men stood perhaps a high fence.

The royalists occupied at the time, not only all of Upper Peru, but also most Lower, and were
very encouraged and hopeful because of his recent triumphs. The Patriots possessed only in
Lima and the countries located on the northern coast; also were separated
in different political parties, which undermined its force base the
common cause of South America, and metal resources were not over,
before the contrast, were short.

Such was the situation of Peru from late 1822 to mid-1823.

On 8 April this year, Colombia's Congress met again, and authorized on July 4 the freedom to
pass to get their aid to Peru, the most notable event of that legislature. We know that after
the interview had called dictator of that country and the illustrious Caracas. In the course
of the same year the city was preparing Montilla Axe an expedition
against Maracaibo, combined with the effect commanded naval forces
Colonel squad leader Jose Padilla, who can judge the risky venture
of force bar, an operation which was offered to fulfill and accomplish
his May 8 with only the loss General Bolivar's brig, commanded and
owned by Captain Nicolas Joly.

Once free to cross the lake, where I get to lord it in late June, and while General Francisco
Esteban Gomez, sick of Montilla, was headed against Maracaibo, Morales strengthened their squad
with two schooners that was bringing Captain Laborde Curacao. Gathered in Zapara Spanish fleet,
anchored on July 22 between Maracaibo and the island of Captain-Chico. The independents were doing
so in Altagracia Punta Piedras. Both fighters, in sight of one another, waiting for the wind
to be undertaken when patriots when they had been favorable, boarded
the 24, three hours after noon, the enemy and fight renidisimo'm locking
a winner Padilla.

The royalists had 800 casualties in dead and wounded, 420 prisoners from more official kind
of army and navy. The Patriots were 44 officers and men killed and 119 wounded.

Weapons Republican, favored for their courage and good cause, marching seeding for the way the
laurels of victory and adding one each day over the colossal stone building independence.
Where there had discouraged by their fruitless efforts the former rulers of Venezuela, ceded the
field to the brave and freedom fighters. On August 3 chapter Morales under the most generous
terms of the Republicans who doing so will be crowning glory and twelve days after the candle
is to that memorable general due to the island of Cuba. In the rest of the year Coro and Puerto Cabello,
the last bastion of Spanish domination in Venezuela, also fell into
the hands of the brave and meritorious children of the New World,
whose heroic came spilling blood for so many years, and finally to
leave the 1823, could exclaim, waving the flag of Colombia: "We are
already free."

CHAPTER XI

Bolivar in Lima .-- The public spirit in Peru .-- Lost. - Dissolution of Congress .-- The Libertador
organized a major expedition .-- Passage of the gorges of the Andes .-- Victoria Junin Colombians
in the Troops .-- .-- Break Spanish. - Combinations Bolivar .-- strategic directs the High Battle
of Ayacucho Peru .-- .-- .-- Entry Capitulaciones Bolivar in Lima .-- Call for a reunion of Congress
.-- The .-- reunion and actions Republic Surrender of Callao Bolivar .-- .-- Emancipation of
South America made Considerations .-- .-- Principia to disturbed
the order among Venezuelans decreed against Paez Deposition .-- .--
Revolt of Valencia. - Assembly .-- parties caused by the Federalists
of Caracas. - Bolivar is heading to Venezuela .-- Proclamation given
in Maracaibo. - Events of Peru.

The 1 deg. September, 1825 had made its entry into the liberator Lima, where he was sworn in
dictatorial power, with authorization to dispose of all resources of the country; but given
the opposition of some political parties, and realizing that the elements solvents that undermined
its noble undertaking would not be possible to reach the end which had proposed Trujillo retired. Thus
abandoning the capital, was soon occupied by the royal troops Canterac under General.

In early 1824 the state of the cause of independence was pitiful in Peru and marched despondently
to ruin. Missed the February 5 strengths of Callao, was dissolved
Congress, putting in Bolivar hope of their salvation.

The illustrious leader Colombian even if it were not for their ardent love for the cause of freedom
of South America, I could not watch with indifference the dangers that would come to threaten
the work done by the up there if the arms enthrone Spanish arrived in Peru, and when he received the
sad news was the latest disaster in the province of organizing troops Huamalies and waiting for reinforcements
from their republic to continue operations at its own risk may oppose in a little to the misfortunes
that occurred an army of 4,000 patriots country and 6,000 Colombians.

Then crossed the passes of the Andes, while those of Jauja Canterac garrisoned and placed their
outposts in Houses, and marched resolutely on Pasco. The Spanish general, who know the direction
followed by its opposite, is heading the same point in order recognition practice. Here he learned
that on August 5 had been taking for Bolivar the right of Lake Junin, and fell in the act to hinder
the enemy forces came to be at your back. By practicing this movement, and have three days
undertaken, Canterac was hit by Bolivar and the royalists suffered a major defeat in Or Pampa
Junin de los Reyes.

The winners Canterac followed in pursuit of that, on and in good order, was retiring to Tarma, Jauja,
Huancayo and Huamanga, and arrived at Cuzco with a loss more than 2,000 men. The liberating
army Huamanga not pass until after he had rested there for about a month, at which time, as he
had his boss, General Sucre was to Challuanca go on to threaten the enemy's rear, while he practiced
a recognition of the Apurimac, operation in which the winter came to surprise suspended and that
after this debian verified. Bolivar then moved by powerful causes, he separated from his army,
leaving him in winter quarters, and headed the Alto Peru in order to prepare the necessary means
to close the hood and at the same time to organize good governance
in that country.

Later, on December 9, the troops were crowned with laurel Sucre in Ayacucho, reaching a decisive victory
over Spanish arms, commanded by Laserna, then viceroy of Peru. A nearly 9,500 men ascended the
viceroy's forces, while not arriving at 6,000 the general command of the republic, but well combined
and skillfully directed the plan battle, the royalists were completely undone, remained in
the hands of Sucre, in addition de Laserna, 15 generals, 16 colonels, 68 lieutenant colonels,
484 officers, 3,200 soldiers, corporals and sergeants, 11 pieces of artillery, a large number
of rifles, ammunition and finally, all the military equipment belonging to the enemy, who had
been placed in the case of surrender by capitulation.

On this memorable day, the brightest of which took place in South America, with the head that
reached heroically distinguished Jose Maria Cordoba, English Miller and Gen. Lamar. According
to the foundations of the Spanish capitulation was forced to surrender countries still dominated
by them in the Upper and Lower Peru and the victors to spare the lives and property of the vanquished
and their supporters, paying also travel to the peninsula Army individuals who request them. The
immortalized the Battle of Ayacucho name of the brave son of Cumana, as good a patriot as a virtuous
citizen, as skilled as noble general.
