 To believe by his word, he was a drug dealer by necessity, but luxury. He
liked to run the world and see everything and to do as they please, as it was rich for her
house and had plenty of money, ran that way, buying jewelry 'to all cost 'in the big cities
of the earth, to hand them over to the poor men and good girls of the hamlet for a piece of bread.
So he was fine pearls price East of Castilla chickpeas; pu침alitos Damascus and gold watches, razors
cheaper than Albacete and covers of tin. I had seen many lands and studied many books, I knew a
little of everything there was to know, and give remedies, and even sold them at "Rout" of course,
for any breed of diseases ... and setbacks, because in his opinion, nothing was truly incurable,
knowing look to things your reason, as he knew, having studied many books and have run many
lands. This second baratijero campaign was a sweeper in place. Not a speck left Tablanca Rogue.
Particularly Facia, which was his sencillota and noble, had been wasted. Spent necklaces of all
colors, rings, and alfilerones espejucos of all makes, a lot of money: all the savings of its
soldiers and more than requested account, courageously facing the indignities apostrophized with
the master. For those craving was insatiable and he boldly inconceivable in shortly before,
so modest, courteous and respectful girl, flowed from a "I do not know a bad one" as a curse, and
that "pulling the pulling" against his taste to store trinkets, and particularly to the graces of baratijero.
As he had noted the inclination and she was (no offense) the best girl among the many and very
good they had in place, pulled the rogue and chicoleos flattery, and even the haunted house
at night and sang a few songs 'fine' to the sound of a guitar "that properly speaking between
his hands. " In short, the innocent ewe came to click with such terms Sorcerer's lover, only she was
a bit of trial, the purely essential to respond in one of his most obstinate sieges, that
"being like God sent and in front of the Church and to live in Tablanca to the side of his
master, when would see fit. "

He held the man his impetus to the response; medit칩la for a few days, decided to done so; corri칩se
the news by the people envied his mad fortune Facia all it girls, the case came to the ears
of Don Celso, touched the sky with his hands made the unfortunate
crazy in love and without shame that there was no where to catch it,
swore and swore that baratijero was a scoundrel of seven soles, that
there was only looking at his face to convince this, that God knows
where he would be born, and where would have gone to where then, and
that the cross of Jesus Christ consider this and that and beyond ...
As if quiet.

The spell was swallowed, and Facia not give up a point in their endeavor. Well persuaded then
his master that there was no reasoning can convince her, nor as rigorous as of planting on the
street, not worsen the fate of the unhappy, including loss view or unhappy, chose the lesser evil
after day: a shack that had managed half left to the lower end of the valley land and livestock
agreg칩le; did, finally, how can becoming a parent for a child in such cases, and said to Facia after
refusing to receive the groom and see the range of your voice:

- Marry when you please, and weather there for, even, even when grief kill you, you die in his own
bed after asking God for forgiveness of your ingratitude and madness.

A few days of married with great pomp, baratijero, it was another man other than what was in place
before marriage, until the face looked different, especially when talking to his wife who spoke
little, looked low and evil, and it seemed that bothered him until his shadow. One month after
this, he did not know to work the land or manage livestock, and those
wealth that had "for his home," said the bachelor, did not see a penny
to raise the burdens of their new state, took what was left of his
tenducho and went to run fairs and markets with it.
