 

Magdalena made a gesture of doubt as if he had a weak residue of hope, which strove to maintain.

-
Do not you think Oliver and will not return more than what is right
- I added firmly.

I gave him know the reasons good or bad that decided the fate of his sister. I explained Oliver's character,
his absolute disgust for marriage. I insisted on his belief - perhaps unreasonable, but without reply,
- that any woman would be unhappy, not just a given, but all without
exception.

So I tried to mitigate what could have wounding resistance.

- What makes a point of integrity - said to Madeleine, as the last
argument.

He smiled sadly at the word probity so badly matched the irreparable misfortune whose responsibility
weighed, their eyes on Oliver.

- It's the happiest of us all - he said.

And the tears rolled down her cheeks.

Two days later, Julia was already able to take some walking around the room. The indomitable force
this little being, secretly trained as hard evidence, but not slowly revived within hours.
Just in convalescence, viósela straightened against the humiliating memory have been caught, so
to speak, in weakness, locking fight with physical evil, dream that could win and dominate.
Two days later had the strength to go down the hall alone, refusing all support, but the weakness
of sweat covering the thinned skin on your face and although successive bouts of weakness would
make it falter at every step. That day was determined to go by car.

The paths taken by soft woods. Was good time.

Returned revived, just by breathing the smell of heated oak a bright
sun.

Stranger entered the castle, almost pink, touched by a chill feverish,
but good omen that it was only the effect of the active return of
blood impoverished veins.

I was shocked seeing revival in that way, for so little, a ray of
sunshine in winter and a little resinous smell of cut wood, and I
realized that empecinaría to live with an obstinacy that promised
long miserable days.

- Is he ever Oliverio? - I asked Magdalena.

-
Never.

- Do you think about it constantly?

- Constantly.

- What
do you think that will last?

- Always - Magdalena said.

Free from the concern that for three weeks, was chained to the bedside Julia bed, it seemed
as if Magdalene had lost his mind. Seized it that proved stunning and positively crazy extraordinary
foresight, of exaltation and daring. I recognized that look in the theater I realized that we
were in danger; and taking everything to extremes, threw me piece by piece, so to speak, his heart
head, as he had done that night with her bouquet.

We spent three days taking walks and making daring expeditions, three days of unprecedented happiness
that can call themselves a rabid sense of destruction of their homes, sort of moon blatant
and desperate groups, no example, nor by emotions or regrets by and that seems like nothing is
not at this time of heavy and mournful satisfaction during which allowed all those sentenced
to die the next day.

The third day, despite my resistance, she demanded to ride one horse
of her husband.

- I will accompany you - I said, - I have need to
hurry and get away.

He ran to get dressed, he ordered a horse saddled Mr. Nièvre had trained for her and as if trying to
get ahead of his servants kidnap in broad daylight, 'part', he said.

We just got back into the woods he put his horse into a gallop. I did like her and followed her.
When he saw I was going to reach speeds up the march, lashed to his horse and threw no reason
to escape. I took the same air as she stood and made a new effort that left me behind. That persecution
irritating, rampant, I was beside myself. She rode an animal very Lightweight and managed so that
their speed tenfold. Just sitting up all the to further reduce body weight, without a cry,
without a gesture, ran madly as carried by a bird. In my time I did my horse galloping at full speed,
still, dry lips with mechanical fixity of a jockey in a race to the bottom. She was still in
the midst of a a bit narrow path enclosed by the edges, so that did not fit two horses in front
unless you do not ladeara. Seeing stubborn of closing the door, climbed on the forest and some
time so I went along with the constant risk of breaking my head against the trees, and the time
is right to block his way, postage jumped the decline and fall deep in the way I stopped my horse
and quartering. There was, therefore, a halt to two steps Me and the two horses, panting, covered
with foam as if they had been reared the feeling that their riders wanted to fight. I truly
believe Magdalena and I look with anger to the point that bizarre game mixing the excitement
and challenge about other feelings untranslatable. He stood before me, the whip handle, shell between the
teeth, livid cheeks, bloodshot eyes, splashing of bloody glare; then uttered one or two convulsive
laughter that froze me.

His horse came from At full gallop.

At least one minute, as Bernardo de Mauprat attracted Edma steps, looked run under the green
branches of oaks, the veil in the wind, her long wavy dark rider with supernatural agility of
a black devil. When he had reached the end of trail and saw no more than a red dot on the bottom
of the forest re-launched my horse to escape breathing, to my regret, a cry of despair. Come to
the right place where he had been away, I found at the intersection
of two roads, stop, panting, waiting with a smile on his lips.

-
Magdalena - I said, rushing toward her and grabbing her by the arm
you .-- Cessation this cruel game, stop you or I kill me.

I just answered with a direct gaze that made me go flush to the face and took more slowly by the
way the castle. We returned to the step, without exchanging a word, our horses matched, rubbing
his jaw and covering each other with foam. Foot cast land on the fence, walked through the
yard sand whipping the ground with the whip up straight to his room and did not reappear until
the evening.

At eight o'clock they brought the mail.

There was a letter from Mr. de Nièvre.

Magdalena on breaking the color changed.

- The Lord of Nièvre is good. Not return until next month - said.

Then he complained of feeling very tired and retired.

It was not like the previous night. The raised and spent without sleep. The letter from Mr. Nièvre,
though insignificant, intervened between us like a thousand claim forgotten things. If only
he had written this sentence: "I am alive," the warning had not been clearer. Nièvre decided to leave
the next day and had resolved completely going, without reflection or more calculation. At midnight
there was still light in the room of Magdalene. A group of maples planted near the castle in front
of the windows of his room received a reddish glow that every night when I suggested that she
ended the vigil. It was often too late. An hour after midnight was seen even in the glare. I wore
light shoes and went downstairs in the dark. So I went to the apartment door Magdalena located
at the opposite end of July to the end of an endless corridor. In the absence of her husband
a single maidservant slept near her. I heard two or Three times I seemed to hear the dry sound
nervous little cough that was common to Magdalena in moments of deep despair or disappointment.
I placed my hand in the door: it was fantastic the key. I walked away, turned, about to get away.
My heart beat to the breaking point, I was like stupefied and trembling from head to toe. I
wandered down the hall in complete darkness, after I was like stuck in a place without any idea
of ??what he would do. The same shock one day, the vivid influence of alarm, I had pushed mechanically
into Nièvre and had me down there as an accident, can be like a catastrophe, I was wandering,
in the middle of the night, confident that house, sleeping, driving me into the bedroom of Magdalena
and she came like a sleepwalker. Was I wretched at the height of the slaughter, blind by desire,
neither better nor worse than my peers? Was it an evil? This fundamental question me mind
working, but not determine it the slightest decision specifies that
resembled or honesty, or the formal draft of committing an outrage.

The only thing about which I had no doubt - and yet undecided, and - was that a fall would kill
Magdalena that was beyond any possible discussion, I will not survive even one hour.

I know not tell you what was what saved me. I found myself in the park without knowing why or
how there was gone. In comparison with the darkness of the corridors, outdoor was clear even though
it seems to me there was no moon or stars. The compact mass of trees was as curled long black
hills at the foot of which the windings are distinguished the rides whitish. Random walking ponds
along the coast.

The birds awoke and fluttered in the undergrowth. Long after a cold feeling inside I got a little
me. I went back inside, locked the doors with the dexterity of a
sleepwalker or a robber and clothing as it was I dropped on my bed.

At dawn he was up just remembering the nightmare that had made me
miss all night saying: "Today depart."

And that purpose Magdalena informed as soon as I saw it.

- As you wish - I replied.

I was horribly broken and was seized with a flurry of body and soul that made me damage.

- We see our patients - I said a little after noon.

I accompanied her and went to town. Julia took care of the child and had, so to speak, adopted had
died the day before evening. Magdalena was driving near the coffin containing the little corpse
and tried to kiss him, to return wept and repeated the phrase my child with acute pain as I
announced far and wide scope of a gnawing pain that their existence and which was bitterly jealous.

I
left early and went to Julia M. D'Orsel words of thanks which I tried say with the greatest
serenity possible. Then, not knowing how to fill the day and not having interest, so to speak,
in the use of a life that I felt detached from minute to minute, I went to put her elbows on the
railing that fell on the trenches and stayed there do not know how time. I did not know where
it was Magdalena. From time to time I could hear his voice in view corridors or moving from one court
to another, it also wandering without purpose other than to move. There at the base of one of
the turrets in the manner of a cave half blocked in other times served as a door to escape.
The bridge that linked the park rides was destroyed. It were not more than three pillars, partly
submerged, the muddy water soiled waste pit sparkling. I do not know what idea came to hide
there for the rest of the day. I went from one to another pillar and hid in that room dilapidated,
foot tapping the current in the dismal gloom of the vast and deep pit where the water ran laundry.
Two or three times I saw Magdalena came out and marched to the malls as who is looking for someone.
Disappeared and returned again, hesitated between three or four roads leading from the parterre
to the confines of the park and finally took one of them covered elms, which ended in ponds. I
spent a jump from one to the other side and followed her.

Was quickly, his secured bad field hat over his ears, wrapped in
a cashmere wide that hugged the body like you have very cold.

He turned his head to see that I approached suddenly turned and retraced his steps, passed me
without looking at winning the steps of and rose parterre. I caught when he reached the door
of the parlor that served as a toilet in which I used to spend the day.

- You help me fold my shawl - I said.

He was the soul and eyes elsewhere.

The wide color fabric was folded with us in the direction of its length and it was not just
a narrow band which each we held one end. Either by apathy or weakness, the garment is slipped
through Magdalena hands.

He took a step backwards first staggered, then fell forward and fainted in my arms. I grabbed it, held
it a few seconds so glued to my chest, head back, eyes closed, cold lips, half dead and alienated
the influence my kisses.

Suddenly a terrible contraction shook her, opened his eyes, sat up on the tip toes to reach up
and throwing my arms around my neck with all her strength she went to turn kissed me.

I grabbed her again, reduced it to defend himself like a dam that is being discussed against
a desperate embrace. He had the notion that we were lost and cried. I feel ashamed to say it: that
cry of agony awakened in me that I was just instinct of man's mercy. I realized that the killing,
did not distinguish whether it was his honor or his life. I have no why boast of an act of
generosity that was almost involuntary, so small a part you it corresponded to the true human
consciousness. I dropped the dam as a beast that has stopped biting. The dear victim made
a supreme effort. Work was useless: I do not already had. Then with a loss that has made me estimate
what is the remorse of a honest woman with a fear that I would have tried, had I been in a
position to reflect what degree of relaxation I saw her small, as
if she understood instinctively that there was for us or discernment
of duty, no consideration or respect, that this sympathy of pure instinct
was just an accident that could deny, with a gesture that startled
me, that still surrounds these old memories in a world of terror and
shame, Magdalena moved quickly toward the back door without walking
away Me eyes, as we proceed with a criminal, he won the aisle and
once again he and ran.

I had lost consciousness while I remained standing. As I dragged myself to my room, only had
one desire, that I found collapsed on the stairs. Arrived I had my door, even before opening it, and
I was unable to sustain more. Mechanically, I made sure nobody was
in the corridor.

The last sentiment that still retains a moment was that Madeleine was safe, and I collapsed
on the floor.

Right there I recovered one or two hours, at night, with the memory inconsistent a dreadful scene.
The bell announced that dinner was ready and had to go down. I moved, his legs were free, but it
seemed as if he had been struck in the head. Thanks to that paralysis, very real, he felt a
general feeling of great sorrow, but not thought about it. The first mirror which looked at me, showed
me the face strangely a haggard ghost, something like that could hardly recognize me. Magdalena
did not attend the dining room and I was almost immaterial whether it was or elsewhere. Julia,
tired, sorry or worried about her sister, and probably full of suspicion, because in that case
unique clairvoyant girl and reserved all the assumptions were allowed. Julia was not not join
us in the lounge.

I had therefore only to Mr. D'Orsel, nearly half of the evening, was inert, insensible, and
as if I had frozen the blood, so little sense to think I was so exhausted
and was force to move.

It was about ten when he entered Magdalene, changed to be scary, unknown,
with aspect of a convalescent to whom death has touched.

- My father
- said with a tone of unyielding courage .-- I need to be alone for
a moment with M. de Bray.

Mr. D'Orsel rose without hesitation, he kissed his daughter and fraternal
left.

- Do you leave tomorrow? - I said, standing as I was too.

-
Yes - I answered.

- And we will not see each other again!

Nothing I said.

- Never - continued - what do you mean? ever. I put the only obstacle between us that no idea can
separate return.

I threw myself at her feet, took his hands without resist, sobbing. Had a moment of weakness
that cut him short, took his hands and give me them back as soon as there regained its strength.

-
I will do my best to forget. You olvídeme.

That will be easier still. Get married, later, when you want. Do not imagine that his wife might be
jealous of me because when that might happen I'll be dead or I will
be happy - concluded with a thrill that before was not brought down
.-- Farewell.

I was kneeling, arms outstretched, waiting for a sweeter phrase that she uttered. A last reaction
of weakness or pity snatched.

- My poor friend! Achieve this was fatal. If you knew how much I love him! I would not told
you yesterday, today I can confess because it is the forbidden word
between us.

She recently was exhausted, had found a miracle I do not know what that resource under lent strong
enough. I had none.

I think that even added two or three words that I did not understand,
then walked away sweetly as a vision that fades away and not see her
again, or that night or the next day or anymore.

At daybreak I left without seeing anyone.

Avoided through Paris and became lead directly home that lived in a suburb far Augustine. It
was Sunday and found him with his family.

At first glance I realized that something terrible had happened. Assumed that there Magdalena died
because his perfect honesty of a man and husband, could not conceive of greater misery. When
I told him the true accident that reduced me to one of those situations
that are not never confess, I said:

- I do not know that kind of
punishment, but I pity you with all my heart.

And I never doubted
that I was sorry from the bottom of the heart, little to reason about
worst disasters that could assume the uncertain future of his own
life.

He worked when he was surprised. His wife was near him in her
lap a little boy six months had been born during my exile. They were
happy. His situation was thriving: I could see several signs of relative
affluence. The night was terrifying: a storm end of autumn lasted
without interruption from the afternoon until after dawn. In the monotonous
lullaby of that constant and long sound of the wind and rain, but
did not think in the tumult that occur around the room and the dream
of Magdalena, where he slept