 

Be one of so many jokes, which as I said were characteristic of Sandy-Bar, be more altruistic
reasons, the case is that two thirds of the unemployed accepted then the invitation was so freely they
were made.

They had already struck midnight, when the body of Tennessee was placed in the hands of their
partner. When approached the car to the fatal tree, we note that contained a rough oblong box,
made the Apparently sluice tables [7] half-filled pine bark and twigs. Were part the decoration
of the cart willow cuttings and a few dozen long flowers odor. A body once placed in the box,
Tennessee's partner covered it with a cloth tarred, mounted seriously on the narrow front box,
and your feet on the beam, whipped up the ass, slowly moving vehicle, with that dignified step which,
even in circumstances less formal, it is customary to as intelligent
quadrupeds.

Middle of curiosity, half in jest, but all in good humor, both of miners continued sides of the
truck, a front, others behind the simple coffin, but is due to the narrowness of way or by
some instinctive momentary feeling of pity, as he advanced the car, support was delayed in pairs,
keeping the pace and taking the appearance of a solemn procession. The fun Polibión James, who
had started out parody a funeral march, moving his fingers on an imaginary flute, declined to
pursue it, not find a favorable reception, perhaps lacking the ability
of real humor, you can have fun with your own grace and humor.

The road crossed the creek funeral Bear, covered at this time of dark and gloomy aspect. The
Campeches, hiding in the reddish soil his feet, manned the path as
in single file, and its branches seemed inclined to take a strange
blessing over the coffin progressed slowly.

A beautiful hare, caught in their innate activity, sat on his hind legs, rebullendo the ferns beside
the road, while the procession marched. Squirrels were quick to gain the upper branches to
peek from there in safety, and jays, stretching its wings, flew to
the front as outriders, until we reach suburbs of Sandy-Bar and the
solitary cabin of the director of the ceremony.

Seen this place even more pleasant circumstances, there would have been a cheerful place. The
rough and ugly figure and the gross details that distinguish mining constructions California,
and moreover, a little picturesque location, all gathered there to sadness debris. A few meters
from the hut, lay a rough fence, in the short days of marital bliss Tennessee's partner, had served
as a garden, but in Back then, enjoyed a lush ferns and herbs of all kinds. As we approach
the fence, we were surprised to see that what we had taken for A recent assay, was only clearing
surrounding a newly opened tomb. The wagon and stood in front of the enclosure, and Tennessee's
partner refusing offers of help, with the same air of confidence he had shown in all, took the
box and deposited, without help from anyone in the shallow grave. With nails sticking after serving
table cover, and getting on the mound that stood beside the grave, He uncovered and slowly
wiped his face with his handkerchief. Everyone understood that these were the preliminary of speech,
and spread on tree trunks and rocks waiting situation.

Dignity coated Tennessee's partner said slowly:

- Say, when a man has been running free all day, what is natural right? Then go home. But if you can
not go home for yourself, what you need make your best friend?

Of course, bring her! And here at Tennessee has been running released and their pilgrimages bring
it home.

Here, to focus their ideas, silent, low to take a piece of quartz, and rubbing thoughtfully on
his sleeve, he continued:

- Other times I had loaded on my back and now you have seen, sometimes
had brought to this cottage, when you could not stand up for himself
more than once myself and the donkey We had expected up there gathering
it and bringing it home when he could not speak, nor was it possible
to recognize me.

And today is the last day ... You see ...

Callose again and rubbed the quartz against his sleeve.

- As you can see, the case is hard for your partner ... And now, gentlemen - he said abruptly,
picking up your long-handled shovel - the funeral is over, I thank y. .. Tennessee it also gives
them the trouble they have caused.

Opposing many offers of help were made, began to fill the grave, giving back the crowd, which,
after some moments of indecision, withdrew gradually.

By doubling the small ridge that hid Sandy sight-Bar, some turning back thought they saw the
partner of Tennessee, and completed his work, sitting on the grave with the shovel between
your knees and face buried in his red silk handkerchief, but others argued that at such a distance,
it was not possible to distinguish the face of the tissue, and this point was not clarified ever.

In the midst of the calm that followed the feverish excitement of that day, Tennessee's partner
not was cast into oblivion by the camp's residents. Some rigorous indictment that done secretly
delivered him from the alleged complicity in the crime of Tennessee,
but not certain suspicion about whether or not it was in his right
mind.

The population of Sandy-consciousness ignored Bar the visit, offering
various gifts coarse, but inspired by sincere sentiments.

But since that fateful day, that health and great strength seemed visibly to decline, and entry
and the rainy season when grass leaflets began to appear and between the rocky mound covering the
tomb of Tennessee, got himself beaten by the disease.

Then he put into bed.

That night, the pine trees surrounding the hut, shaken by the storm, dragging their graceful
branches over the roof, and the distance they heard the roar and the pounding of the impetuous
stream. Tennessee's partner stood up and said:

- It is time, go in search of Tennessee; engancharé cart.

And he had risen from bed to not telling her maid prevented. However, making strange movements,
continued its singular delirium

- Come, borriquita! So, so! Still! How dark it is! Alert for holes, and care He also, old. You
know that sometimes, when drunk, roll like a log up the ditch. Run, then, straight to the pine
up there on the hill. Well ... No I said it! ... There it is! ... is coming ... just ... serene ...
How to shine your eyes! Tennessee!

And so it was to meet ...

A POOR MAN

In 1852, went with us to California, aboard the Skiscraper, an individual named Fag, David Fag. I think
that the adventurous spirit had little effect on his departure, probably would have no place to
go. In the evenings, when young people gathered, pondered the magnificent placements we had left,
and how sad they had been our from friends to see us, when we taught daguerreotypes, and loops
of hair, and talked Mary and Susan, the poor man used to sit with us and we listened painfully humbled,
but without saying a word. Maybe it had nothing to say. Lacked comrades except when we protected
him, and in honor of the truth, we enjoyed a lot. No did wind to fill a hat, and I was dizzy, could
never get used to life on board. I will never forget how we laughed when Abel brought a piece
of bacon in a string, y. .. but everybody knows this classic joke, then joked to its shores
with great joy.

Ms. Engracia could not suffer, he did believe that she had fancied with him, and sent them to the cabin
books and candy. It was funny seeing the scene that took place when fighting stammering and dizziness,
rose to thank him for the gifts. Menudo was she angry! It seemed to Medora, said Abelard, who
knew Byron by heart, and were not a little choked the old Fag! However, we do not hold grudges, and
when Abelardo fell ill at Valparaiso, the old Fag nursed him carefully. It was, in short,
a boy good pasta, but lacked courage and enterprise. Absolutely devoid of all aesthetic feeling
once it became seen lounging sat mending his old clothes, while reciting Abelardo the stirring
apostrophe of Byron Ocean. On one occasion, he asked very seriously Abelardo if he thought
Byron had been dizzy on occasion. I do not remember the answer to Abelard but we all laughed, and I
think it would be good, it was not without Abelardo of humor.

The day the Skiscraper came to San Francisco, held a grand banquet. Convínose to meet every year
and perpetuate such an event.

Of course, that we invite to Fag. Fag was a third passenger, and as will be understood, it
was necessary, since we were on land, be a bit cautious. But the old Fag, as we called him,
but was not more than twenty-five years (such as brackets), was for us that day the subject
of much banter. According to seems, conceived the idea of ??walking to Sacramento, and really went
on that form. The party was complete: gave us all a good handshake, and each was by his side.
Alas! No it eight years ago, and yet, some of those hands, then narrowed friendly, have risen
up against each other, and have sneaked into our pockets.

We did not eat together and next year, because the young Baker vowed not to ever sit in occupy
the same table as a villain as despicable as Remigio, and Colas, which asked Valparaiso borrow
the young Lupo, who served as a waiter in a restaurant, did not like meet people of such ilk.

Having
purchased a number of actions Cayote's Tunnel in Mugginswille, 54, is I did go up there and
examine it. I stayed at the Fonda of the Empire, and after eating, I looked for a horse, I
turned the village and went to the mines.

I was told a of those individuals whom newspaper correspondents call
"our intelligent news "and that small communities can easily take
the right to give all kinds reporting.

The force of habit and allowed to work and talk at once, without
forgetting never one thing for another.

Brought me a kind of history of the farm, adding:

- See you (and headed to the bank before it), surely there must come out gold (And here filed a coma
with his lance), but the previous owner (pulled stomach cramps the
word of his pica) was a poor man (and underlined the phrase with pica),
an unhappy devoid of all authority, allowing the kids to go up to
her whiskers ... (The rest entrusted the operation to remove his hat
to wipe his brow manly with a large blue check handkerchief.)

Curiosity
led me to ask who was the original owner.

- It was called Fag.

I hastened to visit him, I seemed older and uglier. He had worked hard, as said, however, the
only thing he was going so well. Take his hobby and to some extent protected him. If I did, because
it started to feel distrust for kids like Abelard and Remigio need not speak.

Everyone remembers how the Cayote's Tunnel collapsed ignominiously and how we cheated. Well,
well, the first thing I learned was that Abelard, one of the major shareholders, was reduced
in Migginswille to save the hotel bar, and had the old Fag Rich, at last, and vareaba silver.
Remigio I learned all this when he came to fix their affairs.

He also told me that he had coconuts Fag daughter of the owner of that hotel. So, by hearsay
and by letters, I came to know that Robins, the owner of the hotel tried to arrange the marriage
between his daughter Rosita and Fag. Rosita was a strange child nice and plump, and I would
not do more than what his father commanded. I found it very convenient Fag to marry and to establish,
therefore, as a married man, would acquire all other authority.

Resolved, then, one day up to Mugginswille, to treat the matter myself.

There I had the great satisfaction that I serve drinks Abelardo yes, because it was Abelard,
the cheerful, bright, the invincible Abelard, who had tried for two years to despise. Talk about the
old Fag and Rosita, precisely because I thought the matter it would not be pleased. Declarome
that Fag never liked, and was sure that Rosita also liked: perhaps another person occupied the thoughts
of Rosita.

Then he turned to the desk mirror and smoothed his hair, I realized the vanity scoundrel, and
I thought to warn Fag so to hurry to formalize their union. In the course of a long conversation
we had and the tone in which he spoke, I wished I see that the poor boy was madly in love with the girl.
He sighed and coated prometiome courage to take the matter to a crisis. I also understood it,
an excellent heart, felt a kind of silent respect for Fag, but had
turned her head qualities Abelardo surface, which were nice and courteous.

I do not think Rosie was worse you and me: we are more willing to judge the face value known that
internal value. We are less work and more comfortable, except when we need to rely them. The challenge
for the women, is that in them the feeling is interested sooner than us, and you already understand
that in this case reflection is impossible. This is what had happened to the old Fag if it had been a
man of the most Light psychology.

But it was not.

The thing was hopeless.

Some months later she was sitting in my office when I showed the old Fag. After of a warm handshake,
talk about current affairs, of that mechanically own people who know
you have something to say, but that is bound to get there through
the usual ceremonies.

After a pause, Fag, with its usual ease, I said:

- I return to my
home.

- Does your home?

- Yes, that is, I think I'll do a trip to
the Atlantic States.

I've been to see, then, as you know, I have some properties and powers have given your name to
can manage: I bring some papers that would want to keep in your possession.

Would you take care of them?

- Yes - I said .-- "But what about Rosie?

Dumb fag, tried to smile, and this game was one of the most striking effects and grotesque
that ever witnessed. Finally he said:

- I will not marry Rosita, that is - and seemed to be asked internally as forgiveness of a sentence
categorically - I think I will better not to marry.

- David Fag - said with sudden severity, - are a poor man.

And to my surprise, his face became animated.

- Yes - said - that is, I am a poor man, so I've known forever, I'll tell you, I thought Abelard
wanted the girl as I do, and knew also that she loved him more than
to me, and it might be happier with my rival.

In addition, I also know that the old Robins I would have preferred the other because I was rich,
and that the girl would have obeyed his father, but, you know?, I figured that in the way,
as they say, so I chose to retire. However - continued when was about to interrupt him, - for
fear that the father Abelard rejected, I have paid enough to establish
himself in Dogtown. Enterprising, active, bright, as you know it's
Big Bird, can advance and become again with his old position, and
there is no need for it urges him if he fails. Alargome hand to say
goodbye again.

Sentíame tired of leftovers for their way of treating
such kind Abelardo to show, but as business was good, I promised to
take care of him, and departed Fag.

Some time passed. He came back
the next steamer, and for several days, a terrible accident occupied
the attention of the United States. In all regions of the State leíanse
eagerly the details of a terrible shipwreck, and those who had friends
on board met to read compressed breath long list of victims