 

If pulsatilla is very convenient in the beginning of a puerperal fever which Prodrom consist
predominantly of chills and burning sensation of cold with and rubicundeces partial, in the weakness
of the patient and the degree of vital resistance, and the impoverishment of blood with irregularities,
but without suppression of the secretions, ceases to be the same fever confirmed, excepting
if you have phlebitis, since in this case, in addition to being indicated very well may be associated
with mercury.

Your symptoms make it to some purpose at the beginning of encephalitis in people with anemia; its
action in this case is analogous to that of zinc, that can happen
to advantage in the period of invasion.

Eruptive fevers in the period of invasion sometimes provide the indication of the pulsatility in
many others it is a preventive medicine. Aconite is better suited as a preservative and healing,
the measles rash which is more dots. This, which is very special pulsatility, has the following
symptoms: chills and heat, lassitude, headache throbbing, anxiety, nausea, vomiting of bile
or mucus, violent coryza, discharge serous nose, burning eyes, watery eyes, photophobia, skin
punctures, small patches red as flea bites, hoarseness, pain and noise mucous in the throat,
dysphagia, cough dry, fatigue, epistaxis .-- Managed pulsatility from the first moment of measles,
can heal quickly through heavy sweating, the calm and sleep ensue.

The periodic nature of many febrile symptoms of nerve and throbbing, and their fatigue states
functional gastric and declare their convenience in the treatment of intermittent fevers that occur
in the afternoon or after midday, which is observed apyrexia always, great sensitivity to cold,
lack of appetite, mucus, sadness and aversion to movement; in access, reappearance of shivering
at the slightest touch of exterior air increased salivary secretion, mucosa of the nose and
another, these symptoms are also in the stage of heat, usually orgasm, redness, swelling. More
than just a thirst in the stadium to replace all sweat secretion, even diarrhea until the
action ends, so there is a shortage of salivary secretion and stomach, need to drying for a moment the
internal surfaces, leads to development the thirst that can be alive and very pronounced. They
help some doses of pulsatilla many times the action of arsenic in
intermittent fevers with abdominal obstruction.

It has been said with some reason that pulsatility is inconvenient in the acute period of febrile
conditions, reaching usually to banish it from your treatment. It is true that their symptoms,
and the clinic confirmed the show in the maximum acuity of various fevers; but when there is
severe nerve symptoms at all, when from the beginning dominated phenomena venous and lymphatic or gastric
mucosa, when the sharpness of the leading foot to despair, to passive congestion, injection
of the capillaries without erethism constant. Pulsatility, then, is remarkably effective in fevers
and bilious gastric coated, and in the mucosa, before the development of ataxic symptoms, even
when eating, when the reaction is in full force, or that seems numb from the plethora brain. These
cases are more typical of young people delivered to the drinks, and usually suffering congestion
venous and their way of life, that there are developed thirst and shivering in the middle of burning
fever and various symptoms of lassitude, such as rich and turbid urine, skin transformers, salivation,
expectoration, vomiting, bitter, but headaches are dull and dizzying redness of skin especially
in the face that is as swollen.

Pulsatility is the most suitable for curing this kind of fever.

= B = and flegmorrágicas Catarrhal .-- This drug is an undeniable effectiveness in various catarrhal
fever, and in principle, and in the period of sharpness, and often in the relaxation or laxity.
Highlights are the symptoms: malaise, chills, chills repeated, even by the simple change of
position, puffs uncomfortable heat, swelling with redness of the skin or face, tears, sputum, abundant
salivation, or dry of the throat without thirst, spiders in the trachea, dry cough, vomiting,
aggravation, being lying on the back, or sitting up in bed after having slept. The tough, mercury
and eyebright are great analogy of action, when the condition is primarily located in the membranes
of the eyes, nose, throat, bronchi. Pulsatility is more related to digital, bittersweet, mercury,
chamomile, when the mucosa GI is the most affected.

In all these fevers, is more pulsatile indicated periods of invasion and relaxation or looseness
in the flegmásico, although it is often convenient in the period higher acuity in patients,
who due to age, sex and constitution in harmony with his action, and whenever there is a background
of fatigue that expresses the cold chills, the fickleness of symptoms,
blood stasis, the redness of the affected mucosa alive, and heat more
pronounced, dry afternoon and evening.

= C = inflammations and local irritative conditions .-- All venous and lymphatic inflammations
are in relation to the throbbing in attention to the limits of the characters of the action; otitis
especially where this drug is therefore most suitable, the youngest and delicate is the patient,
the inflammation occupies preferably the intermediate parts, hearing internal, pain, even
excruciating, is characterized by pulsations and feelings interrupt him cold. Otorrhea that occurs
after inflammation is corrected pulsatility effectively when the discharge is purulent and thick
mucus.

This medicine cures also these flows, but are located in other mucosa, such as eye, vagina .....
The same happens in deafness due to the congestion of the mucosa headset and his hyper .....

It has been used advantageously in scrofulous ophthalmia pulsatilla, menstrual and catarrhal
in whose conditions are the best auxiliary mercury and sulfur.

In these cases, agglutination of the eyelids on waking, redness of the conjunctiva or strong injection
of the capillaries. Pulsatility and eyebright and cuttlefish, is effective in certain internal
disorders deformity of the eye pupil, incipient amaurosis that develops slowly.

Pulsatility also plays in the menstrual angina and which develops gradually not passing or subacute
state after use of mercury or that has dry throat without thirst, feeling of tension and swelling
in the affected part, dark, endolorimiento of glands in the neck, chills with or without fever. Also
corresponds the state of lassitude, of swelling and hypersecretion of the mucous membranes due to inflammation
catarrhal, sulfur and machine complete its action. Coryza combat readiness is presented with
its essential symptoms such as headache front towards the root of the nose, poor appetite, adipsia,
afternoon chills, loss of taste and smell, abundant secretion of
mucus thick, yellow, green or odor.

The extent of this condition to the larynx with hoarseness and even hoarseness, sensation of
excoriation and itching, wet cough and chest pain, also requires pulsatility.

Well you can say that this drug is also in line in all mucus serous or the economy, provided they are
from an inflammation or previous Fluxion, but is not appropriate at colliquative flows. It is
very effective to play a suppressed flow by the presentation of another, as the suppression
of sweat, for example, a bronchial secretion, but not by a proper cooling aconite and bittersweet,
or a moral emotion or by the pain, as well as chamomile and ignacia, not out of weakness or
by congestion radical brain, such as quinine and mercury ..... Inflammation of the breast
usually claims pulsatilla during lactation or soon after birth, is frequently mentioned in amenorrhea,
and dysmenorrhea in young women or the cold sensitive and impressionable.

The leukorrhea, in short, typical of this medicine, which comes from
frequent congestion, of difficult periods, venous status heaviness,
warmth and chills.

= D = Diseases of the respiratory organs.

1. º bronchitis .-- The pulsatilla be used in the period of bronchitis subirritativo mucus
secretion easier, when the cough is dry and in the early hours, which is soon wet with easy expectoration,
which are abundant phlegm, yellow or bitter, salty or bland, as there are frequent nausea and
stomach strong shocks, which coughing is excited by a tickling in the larynx, or by burning, scratching,
and feeling more manifest dry afternoon and evening lying, that there is pain in the belly and back,
with jabs at these points and back after coughing, or feeling as of chest contusion. In these
cases more than others is important to take into account the symptoms
pulsatilla general, it managed to bronchitis and frankly inflammatory
Ereta in its period of weakness, may aggravate the disease and prolong
it, changing wet cough and easy to dry and uncomfortable.

2. No Pneumonia .-- You can use this medicine after the bryony in catarrhal pneumonia and benign
in people with delicate, sensitive, weak, at the time of the resolution,
when the expectoration is easy and abundant, it is more bloody and
the thorax is pain and soreness is erratic.

3. No haemoptysis pulsatilla .-- This condition requires, when are lumpy bloody sputum or in blackish
clots. Is particularly indicated in the menstrual haemoptysis in the haemorrhoidal. Judging interest
at this point to designate some suitable drugs in the expectoration of blood, are preferable
aconite, arnica, ipecac, bryony, belladonna when blood or red blood Espector is not coagulated
and erethism and congestion active, the sundew, the digital, the mezereum, the azoato of potash,
when the extremities are cold, the blood and the patient turned pale, the rhux, if repeated bloody
sputum at long intervals and in small quantities, the sulfuric acid in chronic haemoptysis,
the ledum palustre, when blood Espector only by the violence of the
cough, the charcoal, if the bloody expectoration is preceded and followed
by a sensation of burning heat .....

4. º Pertussis .-- Although
pulsatility is inconvenient in this affection, good will, however,
thinking about it for certain spasmodic cough with sensation of constriction
in the larynx and bronchi, must also appear next to the white hellebore
treatment with spasmodic coughs and chills, usually pale face, loss
of appetite, adipsia ..... Pulsatility is generally useful in wet
cough and when the expectoration is Free: This last character in the
difference of tartar emetic, the Senegalese and squill; differs from
iodine, ipecac, of the nightshade and belladonna, for a less congestive,
and falling to the remains of the inflammation and its consequences,
while that these drugs are better suited to initial flegmásico state,
acute or subacute; differs in short, nux vomica, the bryony, chamomile,
by its less overt erethism and the general characters of his action.

Asthma whose access is presented in the afternoon or at bedtime, and senile asthma caused by pulmonary
edema with vesicular breathing requires pulsatilla, if congestive phenomena asthenic, abundant
expectoration, malaise, great sensitivity to cold. Tin deserves to be taken into consideration
in asthmatic conditions of this genre.

= E. = Diseases of the digestive organs.

1. No coating is gastric .-- pulsatility is often used in certain gastric disorders starting
with malaise, chills, and aversion to food, in which cases may in
fact prevent pregnancy gastropathy gastric and long lasting.

This medicine is almost Gastro and specific in other conditions, with or without fever, are produced
by greasy foods, and perpetuated in spite of his expulsion by the emetic, or when is no time
to resort to evacuating, it is also efficacious when pulsatility reaction is slow, it is cold
or shivering, salivation, vomiting or diarrhea.

Recently, the venous lymphatic nature is revealed from the beginning or in the course the evolution
of an acute illness, can not justly claim the drug, as when the disease affects the digestive organs.
Behold the progress of these conditions: inflammation is symptomatic of the coating is produced
by the stomach causes already mentioned; Fluxion presents first a kind of developing a gastric
indigestion, so which the stomach is malfunctioning, and not react with liquid and pouring bile
everywhere. From this moment, it expresses Fluxion symptoms that might require other medications,
if the indication of the pulsatility was not insured by the characters
its general action.

These symptoms include aversion to food, especially to the meat, adipsia, coated tongue, yellow,
gray, bitter or sour taste, bitter belching or with the taste of food, water accumulation in
the mouth, nausea and general cold, food regurgitation or vomiting, or green materials, mucous membranes,
bitter or sour, sensitivity epigastrium to the pressure.

2. No gastro-intestinal irritations. Gastralgias. Enteralgia .-- The influence of the pulsatility
in the digestive tract irritation with constipation, caused by the excess of drinks or by
abuse of the pleasures of the senses is important but secondary. My half gastralgias safe cure
developed by venous stasis or excite this gender or menstrual, lancinating pains are aggravated
by movement and a false step There is continuous nausea or vomiting that are replaced by diarrhea,
only a thirst for the violence of the pain, there is tension and pulsation in the epigastrium
with anguish, or corrosion rather a feeling that is relieved by eating. It is equally effective in
pain belly that recognize the same causes, with rumbling, tension
and tenderness of the belly, needles and cramping pains.

It is convenient to indicate that these enteralgia and gastralgias While there are more constipation
than diarrhea, such as alumina, while in cases of this own gender nux vomica, but you have diarrhea
than constipation.

3. No Diarrhea, vomiting .-- pulsatility is one of the most effective medicines for diarrhea with
pultáceas stools, mucous, liquid, fetid, producing a burning sensation or stinging in the anus,
especially when there is nausea, belching, colic, and deposition more frequent at night. This
medication is less effective in so-called uncontrollable vomiting pregnancy than arsenic, and
even better ipecac and nux vomica, but is generally more useful than opium and platinum, can stand
beside the white hellebore.

4. º Diseases of the Liver .-- These conditions are often characteristic
of their pulsatilla relations with the venous system, if there is
distress, attempted to vomit, saliva abundant stools bilious symptoms
of hepatitis, and more especially the following: tensive and lancinating
pain in the liver region, swelling, fullness in this region and in
the stomach, stinging pain towards the right shoulder blade; exacerbation
of morning pain, bilious vomiting for night decubitus position is
more bearable, insomnia caused by internal heat; chills at the time
of pain, redness and swelling of the superficial veins; Molimo hemorrhoids
or menstruation, or alteration vein caused by the cessation of this
flow.

Pulsatility is more indicated in subacute and chronic hepatitis is a general looseness or weakness,
it is also very useful in jaundice, alone or alternating with digital with yellowing of the
skin, pasty mouth, coated tongue, loss of appetite, disgust to food, discomfort and fullness
in the stomach, discolored stools, cloudy urine, weakness, bad debts, despair.

= F. = Diseases of the genito-urinary.

1. º Fluxion of the uterus. Being the state .-- dysmenorrhea venous base the indication of pulsatilla
in all local conditions, to this state rather than to specific organ damage should this medicine
effective in the conditions of the uterus. As this body is the Fluxion principal of pulsatile fluxion,
then, is the origin of indications more frequent in many dysmenorrhea and amenorrhea, in which
hardly presents catamenial flow of blackish blood.

As otherwise proper fluxion pulsatility is fast, mobile, erratic, and that frequency is of the
apparent vague forms of rheumatism, retains this character already set or not in the uterus, or
concluded by dissipate or divert to other organs, thus is frequently observed in menstrual
disorders, recurrent erysipelas of, ophthalmia, gastric and intestinal disorders with vomiting,
symptoms of gastritis, diarrhea.

In this case, abuse is easy to understand that some pilots have made
managing pulsatility in the suppression or retardation of the rules,
when these accidents do not match with organic weakness, and even
the nervous excitement attached to the node, similar states to the
changes which tends to produce this drug, the necessary elements of
intervention effective therapy.

It is a fact that congestion and are permanent or flegmásicas that take place in utero and
that slow, suppress or increase menstrual flow, do not correspond to the pulsatile, but the aconite,
belladonna, nux vomica, sulfur and calcium carbonate and ....., occur in women of different
temperaments are more blood, more irritable, more bilious.

This is not to say that pulsatility may not be indicated in some fluxional,
even uterine more stable, more active and are manifested in such people,
but even in these cases, fund is discovered fatigue and sluggishness
in the course of these bottlenecks.

These depend provisions venous stagnation due to a common of these parts, to a diminution contractility
by the repetition of congestion, alteration of the innervation the uterus by the abuse of pleasures
or a neurological or rheumatic condition. Hence it Women who have aborted several times, and
those in the critical age, are in pulsatility heroic medicine for menstrual disturbances, especially
if retardation or suppression of the flow.

As above it follows that the magnesia, subcarbonate of potassium, iron, cuttlefish, charcoal and chamomile,
have different indications of the pulsatile and drugs cited in the previous period, but with conditions
diathetic symptomatic and opposite, although pulsatile, for their sphere of action, it sometimes
to early menstruation or metrorrhagia or repeated frequently.

This medicine is a wonderful performance in the delicate women, lymphatic or nerve and melancholy, with
deep sleep, usually in the extremities cold, heat and alternatives passenger; disposed to
diarrhea, to the coryza, to leucorrhoea, toothaches to changing site easily, coinciding with
the non-appearance of menstruation, which slows or for some days,
or have been removed.

Pulsatility in these cases, regulates or causes menstruation and correct the inconveniences incidental
or sympathetic.

Also combat menstrual cramps that occur in the early hours of the appearance of rules, with heaviness
in the lower abdomen, sensation of pressure on the hips and towards the kidneys, pulls in the
thighs, numbness of the lower parts while seated, and painful pressure in the sacrum and to defecate.
There is usually pain in the back, alteration vision, nausea, yawning, menstrual retardation
or failure. White hellebore subcarbonate of potash used as intercurrent with throbbing in the
intermediate days from period to period are sometimes fully effective.

2. º Metrorrhagia. Delivery. Milk fever. Agalactia .-- Apart from the services that this Amenorrhea
drug and other disorders of menstruation, it is also convenient the metrorrhagia and a gush of
black blood and clots, circumstances youth, temperament, age and
other critical symptoms that correspond to their action.

It is necessary pulsatilla frequently in accidents menopause to moderate the overall effects of
nux vomica, or to facilitate or complete the action of carbonate of lime on the uterus.

The clinic has shown that the pulsatility has an elective action on the tissue matrix; that
this action deserves consideration call for using it in previous cases, and a fact that has
even beautiful when it comes back the contractility of this organ
his normal rate.

That's how quiet the false labor pains and which extend to the kidneys, regulates the real and
accelerates the expulsion of the placenta. Science has observations indicating the property to
harmonize and lead to uterine contractions and therefore the correct a false position of the
fetus and facilitate the sense version favorable to labor. The creation in a hospital from a clinic
of this kind would be most importance.

Subacute and chronic endometritis, and that its development has been
slow and hidden, to unfold quickly, or that it is relieved by appropriate
drugs such as aconite and belladonna ... pulsatilla transferred with
that is that for the polyurethane foam pains towards the uterus and
vagina, and darting in constraining the neck, burning sensation burning
in the vagina and labia majora, and metritis caused by the suppression
of the rules.

Accelerate the expulsion of the placenta if no violent hemorrhage, as in this case it is preferable
Secale cornutum the most convenient even when the introduction of the hand for EXTRACTION.

Pulsatility plays lochia suppressed by cooling or by a sad emotion, in the uterus causing fluxion which
tends to leave this body and spreading to the peritoneum the brain ... pulsatilla avoiding this congestion
milk secretion in new mothers who do not want or should not breed,
and the nurses who want to suppress it.

His use in milk fever requires more than in any other case, the existence of general symptoms analogous
to the effects of the drug.

Pulsatility was also used in some cases of agalactia in precisely those that the congestion of
the uterus is perpetuated and when this body is the pars Mandans of Fluxion should promote
milk secretion. Often in these circumstances that arise sweats, chills that alternate with
partial or general, large lax, interrupted sleep by dreams, and in the midst of these symptoms,
increased lochia, white now, and the disappearance of milk in the breasts: pulsatility managed
properly can prevent fever or puerperal phlebitis, and to get lactation
recurrence.

3. º Prostatitis. Dysuria. Catarrh of the vagina, bladder, urethra .-- Inflammation Prostate
ordinarily require to use this drug in people who have suffered from scrofula, in the old,
in the lymphatics and temperament Venous pain are burning with pressure on the neck of the bladder,
frequent chills, mucous deposit in the urine, leaving small, thin jet ..... When this happens
the acute stage chronic is often useful even pulsatility, although
no need to use other drugs adapted to the new symptoms.
