 They provide a fun and rattling seizures the agony on the sand
shed their blood and guts, are pressed to walk the caul and the loose bowels, and walk, however,
by dint of espolazos the chopper and under shaking the sticks in their emaciated backs a fierce
porter, who ignoble and grotesquely giving is behind this beating, in order to increase the pain
and take a rest from pain momentum and energy in a being moribund, if not thought, and nerves
feel like us. With such scenes should not be so hard heart that piety is not moved, or subject
of artistic taste and elegance of manners some who do not repugnant so rude and villains, or
bronze stomach did not feel the full effects of dizziness.

In short: the bull's death is beautiful, if the killer is no more overshoot and give two or
three lunges, but frankly (I mean honestly, I am not fond sentimentality or reciter) above is abominable anywhere
you look.

Again, despite all the bulls continue. Ourselves we dare not ask be lifted, because there is in them something
of poetic and national, to please ourselves. We will be content with some changes, if possible.
We almost die happy if no horses of such a disastrous and ugly death.

As for the buffs, which, as stated, are today more enemies than the
bulls, or reform or anything we ask.

We seem fine as they are. Most do not understand the cause of censorship of them is made.

First, the buffs are buffs, and are not the sermon or the Jubilee. The mother who yearns preserve
the treasure of candor that is in the soul of his daughter, and to accrue, take any of the many
churches that contains Madrid, and not take to hear the operettas. Go only for buffs, if they
are ill, men cured of fear, and those women not missing, tanned and
in every kind of mischief, or they are so innocent, that if any evil
come to hear, not understand.

"

Moreover, I venture to assert that in the most shameless comic zarzuela there is no fifth of the
spring or green jokes in many comedies of Tirso, that many sketches
of Don Ramón de la Cruz and many other dramatic productions of our
great classical theater.

The main reason for the censure of the buffs come from an interesting hobby, from few years ago,
has seized more judgmental minds. The buffs came Paris, in the buffs often danced the cancan, the
buffs like in France, France has been defeated by Germany in the last war, then the buffs,
enervated and corrupting the nation, have taken the blame for the defeat. This has been said and in
all shades, and on this profound dissertations have been written. No one, however, has it occurred
to state that in Germany the buffs like them even more than in France than in Germany pirra
men for cancer, and that those who have beaten the French did not
come out with a discipline-spanking, but to watch the cancan dance
or dance when the beat.

As for the buffs to corrupt corrupt or pull literary taste even more unfounded accusation. Why,
do music, good or bad, is incompatible with the discretion with common sense, to wit, grace
urban and other requirements and qualities that is or could be trimmed a dramatic story? If
any dramatic fable, of these light or farcical merry, no such pledges, cúlpese uniquely the
author and his work, and not all gender and all the authors. Are you over the audience whistling?
And if public does not whistle, but the cheers, and the zarzuela
is silly, this will prove the goodness of public.

Give her something less silly and applaud more.

And when not given something less silly, critics believe that is because there is no less silly.
If it had, it would.

What you just said seems a truism, but Ponder well and it will not is. The author of operettas is
always a playwright. If you write bad operettas, dramas worst written. The critic's speech condemning the
zarzuela, stripped of fussy, is this: "You are stupid and vulgar
zarzuela: write dramas and operettas not write."

To which modestly the author could answer: "If writing operettas, which are easier and have
fewer claims, I do bad, what will I do if I start writing plays? "

The zarzuela also is one thing, and another is a good drama or a good
comedy, and not objects which are written zarzuelas to come to light
new and whales to write Lopes magnificent dramas.

I think I'm going too far with my digression. Returning to the issue I address here.

I said that in summer, although Madrid are the most elegant, Madrid is quite lively and fun.

The center of the animation, the main charm of Madrid in the summer, is in the Gardens Buen Retiro,
from 9:00 to 12:00.

The story we will refer began there, just four years ago today, on August 9, 1873.

II

It was big night for entry. There were almost all young journalists, employees and poets; corny
much is in Madrid, that is, all the ladies and girls of very little money aspire to be noticed
or known in good society, or say to yourself in the company more money, no matter how bad, and
many honorable families of the middle class, no other aspirations
than to suck the fresh air and a bit distracted listening to the music,
the quiff or courtesans of all grades and categories, so to have met
with holders of a quarter when entering, many notable politicians
of the fifteen or twenty parties in Spain, a hundred generals, not
a few congressmen, senators and ministers, and, Finally, that part
of the beau monde had not yet come for the summer, promising to leave,
or that he was so sure of your credit wealthy, who feared going to
compromise on Madrid one summer.

All this public, or sat on benches and chairs, forming a circle, muttering,
politicking, flirting and falling in love, or revolved around the
kiosk, where the music played, giving round and round, even treacherous
comparison, as mules wheel.

The garden, as everyone knows, is very nice, and at night, gas-lit evenings balloon-white and
opaque glass, looks older.

That lends itself to the tree lighting and the green grass and flowers somewhat vague and
beauty. The hustle and bustle give pleasure to the upper.

Women, when not blinded by vanity or the itch to excel, are usually well-dressed. In twenty
one can say that, at best, and not much is usually entrusted the
devil for the eye and comb, where it appears in the Gardens made a
hag; but the other nineteen are as God intended, a blanket, hat other,
not few are very pretty, either way it carried.

All that, in general, could censor that night, and may even criticized in the suit women, is
along the lines. To walk to the Gardens, and although they go in car, to walk after walk, is
all that ugly and dirty white petticoat attachment dress that drags, gathering dust, lifting
and spreading in the air, and sweeping, finally, how much filth is the step. The queue is not
good but for clean walk on soft carpets, marble or burnished, lustrous, precious or and polished
wood, embedded in the form of elaborate mosaic. To walk the streets or the field, where there
is usually mud and who knows what worse, a woman of taste must without
the tail.

Some, but are less, do without now.

At night we are referring to was declaiming against the tails a little gentleman, as twenty-eight
years, newly arrived from Germany and France, and the most elegant,
bold and cheerful can imagine.

Rodeábanle, and involuntarily admired him and thank him were laughing, others five young men from
the most prim and haughty in Madrid.

Our orator had come so late is for a home business. Planned to spend in Madrid three or four
weeks at most and go to Biarritz in September.

He had the reputation of a skull, but not the skulls and exploited
victims nor executioners and operators.

Although generous, used to lend to those who call themselves friends and had taken borrowed
from loan sharks, and he knew contained when I played and lost, and
not let anyone loot their managers, and carried in memory all their
properties, income and products, and watched for everything, and when
I was with your account and reason, and without ever blinded by vanity
or affection.

This gentleman had more than 15,000 dollars a year, was unmarried, Andalusian, did not have a single
debt, and bore the title of Count of Alhedín the Alto.

I had never wanted to study or continue any race. It was, however, curious and clear; I had
read many novels and popular and entertaining of all kinds of wisdom: and with this, and the treatment
of the world, and travel for the best in Europe, had come to have a spirit quite cultivated and
understood everything, though briefly.

He hated politics. To hate newspapers. I never took one in hand but to read ads. Contemporary
public events teased him and would not learn them. Poetry was a thousand times more ancient
stories that modern, and interested falling more than Sardanapalus
Napoleon III, and the fabulous achievements of Osiris those of the
first Napoleon.

He had not wanted to decide himself whether it was realistic or Republican,
liberal or illiberal supporter of this Constitution or that.

In religion and philosophy was less lazy, but if politics was irrelevant in this another was uncertain.
In that, it mattered little if not resolved, in this, in spite of himself, not resolved.

Moreover, as I do with the practicality of his life and his conduct, Count Alhedín had a philosophy
of self, a particular doctrine, a collection of principles which
served as a guide and standard for behavior.

Réstame say that this hero, I put in the field, was of medium height, graceful, strong and
agile. Pulling the foil as few, and with a gun in his hand almost no one is ahead. Great rider
and a good hunter, he had never boasted of a bullfighter. What we did have a hobby, for two or
three years of his earliest youth, was to imitate Leotard, and with such success, flying through
the air, in the combined traps, like a witch.

It was not without however, but a nice guy, dark, beautiful eyes, dark-haired and twisted
whiskers shiny and well groomed beard.

Having lectured against queues reported a series of anecdotes that
occurred to him or to someone you know, in foreign lands where it
came from.

Some of these stories were hunting or riding, the most were of love, finding means of disseminating
their triumphs and conquests, who pretended to believe or believed
their partners, or rather, his audience Count it was of those who,
whether they speak beautifully, fatigue and offend the least suffered,
monopolizing the use of the word and not consenting, as they say,
that no goal but they trick or spoon.

Despite this monopoly is not to deny that the Count was funny in conversation. Speaking, loved
or dazzled.

Recounted how few, and with such art, which he believed history, although it was a lie, and
the audience used to believe it too.

It seems that the imagination and memory were in Count one and only faculty of the soul.

He was petulant, but smugly cute, cheerful and sweet, no one offended. Its fine Figure nice manners
and did much to produce such good effect.

That night they had taken to denigrate everything.

Reminding the Russian princess, the ladies English to German Countess, the French du Faubourg
Saint-Germain, and even the Phanariotes Greek, which was treated with the utmost privacy, it
was not worth holding a damn all women who were walking at that time in the outfield.

"Just - he said - if this whole miserable crowd can cull half dozen warrant a declaration of
love. "

Friends challenged as cruel censorship, and the Count, to defend himself,
holding his opinion grace and naturalness.

As was well disputed and walking, he suddenly noticed that he walked in front of two women two
tiny, slim, young people apparently, but only from behind the saw,
and something had heard and continued to hear of his diatribe and
dispute, because occasionally whispering and laughed, as if their
comments to the conversation of those who came back.

Conde had not seen the face of any of those two women. The costume of them all eye was remarkably
vulgar and profane. The one dressed in black silk light and the other a dark suit of calico
poor, the two were on their blanket. There was, however, such neatness and toilet in the whole
being and even the environment that surrounded and enveloped those women that, without managing the
explanation, the Count seemed to feel like a magnetic current, and got to imagine that these
two women were challenging his assertion, and that any of them considered, with good reason, an
argument alive, very strong and irresistible, against their foolish statements.

Conde also warned that both had nice body and graceful movements unaffected
and wearing the skirt gathered enough to not blemished or powdering
awkwardly sand and so they could descry from time to time her tiny
feet, sharp, high torso and footwear dedication botincillos funny.

The desire to see their faces was felt immediately in the mind of Conde, but they, perhaps suspecting
that desire, not turn their face, may to counter and make you more alive.

The Count had to walk faster and move ahead of them to look at them. Then he saw with a pleasant
surprise that both were pretty. In the face were declaring that they
were sisters.

They looked to the air like we call family, and were all very different. The older and smaller
of stature, of the silk dress, was brunette, with eyes and black hair, as a cherry red lips and
white teeth that showed laughing.

The smaller, calico dress, was taller and seemed to have four or
five years younger than the other, ten and eight at most, was white
and blonde with blue eyes, and properly looked like an angel.

No laughed so much as most, and was more serious and less carefree.

He had a singular expression sweetness, serenity and quiet contentment.

Count

well known that unknown to him, nor were they of what they call the
society or could not be placed in any of the levels of the hierarchy
of the straight.

His piercing gaze and knew at once that experienced were both middle
class, or poor, or very modest, that must have been married brunette
and the blonde was single. Saw anyone accompanying them, and thought
he noticed they were in a hurry and have come as repentant alone and
that if one side were flattered to have self-esteem as the attention
of disdainful lover, the other went suspicious, almost appalled that
little triumph.

Among the friends of Conde had boasted of knowing
that all Madrid, high, low and medium, provided the people belonged
to women. The Count asked who were those girls. All looked on, and
they all said they did not know.

- Are outsiders - added one.

-
Will be new to London - said another.

- Must be either Malaga or
Seville - exclaimed a third.

- Sevillanas son - said the Count -.
I have no doubt.

He made a pompous eulogy of Seville in general with
clear allusions to the two who went before and that such was, and
spoke much louder voice that he had used in the rant, so you might
hear them and serve his speech as a function of relief