 Countries Muslims
and Christians in the East, Armenia and Abyssinia have been faithful to the first plan, and Christians
in the West have used a dual, in proportions so different currently, while North America has ten schools
for each church and four horsepower per capita, Russia and much of South America have still
ten churches for each national school and a tenth of HP per capita. We we have about four schools
for each church (5,000 and 1,290).

Until the eighteenth century, the primary, secondary and university were arranged to give the
learner an indirect power over the environment by the result of grace divine and the patronage
of the saints, to change or predisposed these phenomena favorable natural way to the personal interests
of the respective devotee, and teaching arranged to give the man a direct power over resource
environments by instruments, machinery and scientific procedures, only began to worsen from
the early nineteenth century. Then began the decline frankly supernatural science and the increasing
development of natural science and its applications to defend life and society, the expansion of production
and communications, improved relations between individuals and among peoples by the community
of arts and sciences, yet on the disparity of beliefs, and coal the most prodigiously fat while
others are emaciated by the use of the miracle, "cost and performance uncertain. "

As the current power of nations depends on the proportion of natural forces that have in the service
of national life, by the cultivation and use of human intelligence
"Queen of the Ocean" in the sixteenth century, not today, not square,
and the more remote country, was then unknown, but as practiced by
a happy intuition of modern science personal hygiene, has become one
of the great powers of the present era, in only forty years of not
using any part of fiscal resources to pay aid imaginary and fully
invest in the ownership of natural energies in the first case world
application of modern methods of life with almost total disregard
of medieval methods.

Instead, it appears that, for compensation or the urgency of lost time, the people who wake
up later than supernaturalism rationalism, wake up completely. So France, so the Portugal, they
have expelled the monks, when England can not yet establish secular and compulsory education
with those, because resist the bishops and his creatures in the House of Lords, and is surpassed
by the U.S. and the French in industries that require greater intelligence in the worker.

Similarly, it also seems that the most Christian of all Christian
virtues, which is spontaneous unpredictability in the wild, deliberately
in the hermit, is replaced by more anti-Christian, which is forecast,
with greater thrust on the people who arrive later to practice.

Notwithstanding the Gospel injunction to live like the lily of the valley and the forest bird, without
thinking about tomorrow, unseeded and without saving, it was possible savings from the cessation
of practice of investing surplus money from this life on the other and then took him industry or trade and
loans to foreign governments.

And the British capital, the first formed, encouraged the advancement of the entire world and
particularly in Latin South without it would still be in barbarism.

Then, in proportion as the French left to worry about the tribulations
of ancestors to meet the descendants, France had been at the outbreak
of the Great Revolution, the country with less capital and most beautiful
debts, going from one extreme to another and going up save the number
of children to enlarge the dowry has become the country with more
capital and more loans receivable.

The other nations, where saving was continued to obtain supernatural powers to ensure the health
of the living and the welfare of the dead, Russia, Spain, Turkey, Portugal, Austria-Hungary,
have not yet passed the conditions of borrowers to lenders.

LIFE AND HEALTH

(The cost of candles)

Harnessed in a particular way of understanding life and its effects,
the individual is determined in the course of their existence by their
mental harnesses, carrying reins, usually, needs supernatural in which
the suffering, the natural or alternatively all tastes, vices, virtues,
love or hatred prevailing at any given time.

The only difference with the draft horse is that one takes the harness and the view outside and the other
takes them inside and invisible, except, of course, that carry the duplicate of the spirit
in professional attire.

Insignificant mental differences from individual to individual, are
huge when they are, by accumulation, differences of millions of millions
of individuals.

Together many strands of straw stop the passage of an elephant and many trifles cumulative stop
the march of a nation.

In its original form, mysticism was the subordination of the body's health to health the soul, so
that any decline in import was necessarily an improvement of life.

Practical spirit that was characteristic of the Romans in antiquity,
was revived as opposed to mystical spirit and became a feature of
the peoples that have submitted the Reformation, particularly whites,
while the medieval spirit continued remain the property of the people
who remained faithful to medieval mysticism.

And more significant with the passage of time the new trend, it has
been in the most practical of modern nations to make the religion
itself an instrument of mental suggestion bodily health, in the "Christian
Science" by Mrs. Eddy.

Under the doctrine of the atonement of sin by suffering, and rejection
of pagan customs, the filth was erected in religious virtue, and then
Muhammad set ablutions as a religious practice.

With this, in the struggle for health, this element of superiority was part of the Muslims,
who won two large parts of Europe, providing them a civilization
higher than they had evicted.

That advantage was then countered and overcome by the greater development
of science and the arts among Christians, the rising influence of
rationalism, with more force or against less resistance in some regions,
so that two or three centuries later, nations Christian Europe were
very unequally powerful.

In the twelfth century, the health advocacy was made by the prayers
and amulets in the East, for the prayers and relics in the West.

The Reformation was a movement of an economic nature for the abolition of trade in indulgences and
relics, disqualified the miracle to disqualify the vehicle for extortion, and was reborn this
juncture pagan hygiene in the formulation of "mens sana in corpore
sano", for bathing and sports, a point where it can be said that hygiene
was reborn through natural methods and Anglo-Saxon Protestant mainly.

When the sick are healed by a miracle only, was unfounded and there were no hygiene and therapeutics,
which were condemned by the Church in defense of chastity and Thaumaturgy
respectively, while mortality equaled birth rates and natural growth
of populations was zero or negligible, while the health of the living
entrusted to the will of the dead in the heroism and holiness.

Change decreased the population of vermin and external parasites of tenants messiness, staff unaware
of the medieval salvation, with the use of soap and shirt visible and washable Burmmel invented,
news that would have spread very slowly there where the feel of the theologians had found
its complement in the old adage popular "Pig fattening never clean."

Defining the new way to make the defense of life against the unhealthy environment Americans say
"the civilization of a country is measured by the use of soap" and consequently, the uncivilization should
be measured by the use of candles to the saints the same object.

When the miracle was the exclusive agent for the preservation of health,
mortality exceeded 30 per thousand, and because of the enormous child
mortality, the average human life was not more than fifteen years,
have doubled for whites primarily because experimental hygiene has
lowered the mortality to about 15 per thousand, while beyond twenty-five
still in the Spanish strain.

Calculated for this average 20:000.000 people in the nineteenth century, taking the number Saxon
people who have died inevitably and its difference with the figure for Spanish and Latin American
who has died avoidable mystical hygiene would have cost twenty million lives, prematurely annihilated
in the century that has established sound hygiene.

And to continue in the same regard, another twenty million lives, with another two billion of
pesos are lost, avoidable holocaust to faith in hygiene and therapy supernatural.

"The main industry of the Middle Ages, says Seignobos was raising
bees wax to enlighten the churches, and honey to sweeten the wine.

"In Russia, where the illiterate people is 97% and the continued use of health advocacy through candle
wax, every thousand children, 495 die before age 5. In two years of U.S. administration mortality,
which was 132 0 | 00 under Spanish rule, dropped to 22 0 | 00 in Cuba [9].

Telegraph reportedly Santiago de Chile, last month there have perished seven children under
one year, but the full horror of this event is outside the Hispanic mental harnesses, as they were before
out of the reach of their feelings torture, servitude, slavery, despotism, ignorance and misery
in a row.

To see how a single theologian, these children would have gone straight to heaven or limbo, as
they were baptized, and "san" is over.

The loss for this matter the country and race, being a gain for heaven, not taken into account,
since for harnesses that have to go to another world, Jewish, Christian, Muslim, etc., the interests
of this world are beyond the respective road, when the blinkers are very large and can still
reach the destination without having taken a stand on this planet. Ie that in one month and a
single source, the population of those places will have increased
with 700 infants in perpetuity by ecclesiastical appropriation.

RELIGION AND SCIENCE

The goal of science is the life spent in the natural world, and the theology is the lag and no
lag, and is in the foreground.

As life and natural laws are the same everywhere, there is one verifiable science of life and
more than four thousand religions or unverifiable science of life and death.

If salvation depends on not eat ham or not to drink alcohol, or drink three drops daily holy cow
urine, cow or eating on a Friday profane, are matters which are out
of positive science, because the imaginary problems can only be raised
and determined by the imaginary science.

Because the mind has the privilege of leaving reality, constructed
realities mental people with them the natural world, and arrange them
personal conduct, can ill-advised greater or lesser extent, which
will more or less unfavorable influence on the subject and its surroundings
and any on his theology, for all the evil that it will be considered
as an inevitable fate or as infinitely inferior to the real unverifiable.

For This science is sought as the bread, because the real profits that provides everyone who uses it,
and religion is inherited like the color of the skin and hold it,
even to reduce individual and national opportunities for imaginary
profits provides that believes and does not provide that does not
believe her and that this is not sought, neither wants or rejects.

Life can be reduced or lowered in different percentage for a scaffold of terrors and unrealistic
expectations or the decrease of the senses or intellect, or both
misfortunes together, and the balance will be different but the line
will be equal, corresponding each different plan of life a different
length ratio as well.

"The mind that goes parallel with the laws of nature will be current events, and strengthened those
forces, "says Emerson. And do not go parallel will not be strengthened and that goes against will be
weakened by them, because man can do his truth and wander with it, but can not make the truth
of the outside world and lose it in the same direction.

As the dangers and supernatural defenses exist only by creation of the human spirit are different
in kind and degree in all negotiations and latitudes and susceptible abandoned or maintained,
decreased or increased, by simple change of thought, without change
in the world other than the use of the subject's life itself, will
cease to spend them if you cease to believe in them, or spend twice
if you think twice, to the detriment or benefit of the respective
brokers, interested in maintaining this instinctively the highest
voltage in the supernatural terror to milk it more profitably, for
which made before the people believe that the world was by and for
the beliefs and would end if they cease.

As in central Europe and western theologians failed to maintain maximum tension universal religious
terror, the human mind could free itself from the theological danger
and reach to aggrandize the power of cosmic energy, working for free
for anyone who learns how to govern them.

In the imaginary ills, the employer of choice is, of course, the most enthusiastic and most indefatigable
propagandist of danger: each is concerned to believe in the reality
of hell that can take prisoners, and at the same time the most ardent
denier the existence of the other hells that take other specialists.

It turns out that the dangers and fears of the past are grafted supernatural, not only religious
institutions but political institutions of the past, so that there are two large and powerful interest
in maintaining it, since his termination entail the collapse of both. And the biggest complication
in competition international education imposed by the people, otherwise canceled abruptly or
slowly the country that abolished or reduced.