 What best
owner could wish that this man can not be beaten, for whom I felt gratitude well a love so
great, so great I do not know how to express it?

D. Benigno did the impossible to prevent the tears out of their eyes and he looked the bed, while
meeting with his whole soul to which Sola said, and stretched muscles of his face, and finally to
tears wanting to put docks make sympathetic laughter.

Finally, emotion overcame her dignity and her hand to her eyes.

- I acknowledge with pleasure, with great gusto - said talking to embarrassment, but no tears
- that you accept my offerings has made loyalty ... yes, my lady, I admit ... I am grateful
... I'm not worth anything ... acknowledge that you, answer yes to my prayers, threw the last
handful of earth on a sad past, offered me their love and I devoted his whole person, their
future ... I would appreciate ... but, but ... then changed things
are suddenly introduced to you one on whom had fallen so dearly earth
....

- No - Sola said strongly, rising -.

Nothing can change my resolution. When appeared, I no longer belonged to me. I feel so bound
by my word before and after that visit, and should not, nor do I want ... and I repeat, go
back.

- It is possible that the presence of this man what would you indifferent.

- Indifferent not, but who has fought so hard and so has expired, could not in any way compromise
victory. I'm the same now as when I first went to Cigarrales to pass best days of my life ....
No doubt about it you will be my offense.

I whole body and soul of this orphan looked lonely and abandoned and had the incomparable
generosity of wanting to make his wife.

Sola firm attitude, energy and loyalty in his face was painted like adequate expression of
his own beautiful soul had overcome the good Cordero of admiration, gratitude, enthusiasm
and love.

- One word - he said - one question I want to do.

What you say is for me as a statement down from heaven and will believe
as you believe in God .... A little word nothing more.

We are two, two men, one young and full of life and health, excellent
presence, Clear, rich, honest, with many items that will enhance the
imagination of both learned to love a child, the other old, sick,
heavy ....

- Heavy no - cried single protest in the heat.

- Well,
let's take it from heavy ... sick, ugly ....

- In men there is no
ugliness.

- Sick - Lamb continued counting on his fingers - homely,
short-sighted, honest yes, like the first, a good heart .... Finally,
I object.

They both want to marry such a Sola, and this seems to comedy.

A word to the lady is going to decide the issue, Which of the two I want a husband?