 Bless this fortune, but proud of our
progress is not blind us to look with deep respect the generous efforts made by our brothers in
the North to reach it, defeating nature, splendid and terrible as a virgin wilderness.

I tend to believe that the name of a donkey as the unit of measure of wood, responded at first
the amount of it that one of these friendly animals could carry. In As for today, no donkey
could move under one of their namesakes.

A vapor anyone in the Magdalena spends forty to fifty donkeys daily wood, the Antioch consumes
twice, but instead goes half less than others. It is therefore very lasts the life of the
sailors aboard the steam insatiable, every two hours closes up the bank is tied tightly to resist
the current that drags and starts wood absorb an incredible greed. When the operation is done
in delicious morning, the poor boatmen jump for joy, but repeated throughout the day with
Often in that atmosphere candescente, under a blazing sun in our regions is difficult form an idea,
is a real martyrdom. A long iron vessel attached to the shore, by way bridge. The sailors, naked
from the waist, with a bag attached to the head, falling on the back like an immense hood, down to
earth, are in the space between the neck, shoulder and left arm, an incredible amount of chips,
hold with a rope tied on the wrist free, and buckling under the weight, laboriously climbing steamed
and shed its load near the stove. Those who feed these are called candlesticks by a curious analogy.

At
times the river has risen and fuel tanks are under water, taking the rowers to work with half the
body submerged.

Rare is the occasion when working in dry, which is not interrupt to kill extremely poisonous
snakes hide in firewood. But when it is under water, have no defense, being further exposed
-sting rays ...

Finally released, we set in motion.

Began the arduous journey in a sense complex that kept my spirit in that nervous restlessness
that precedes a consideration in adolescence to a duel in youth, a long-awaited moment in all ages. First
Instead, a lively curiosity and burning, then the idea that each hour's walk away me three
of the country, and above the tremors of the body by physical tortures glimpse, serious concerns
that responded to my official position, have nothing to intimate view these pages.

So we knew our position and destination, some passengers on points
near me let see a frank and sincere sympathy.

One of them, sir Colombian perfectly cultured and polite, as everyone I've met in my way, I
asked, worried, if I was aware of what was the navigation of Magdalena, and how, if so, there committed
the chambonas to embark in Antioch. "For you must know - he continued - that each one of the
steamers that cross the river from Barranquilla to Honda, has a reputation particular conditions
of their own, well known around the world. So, I do not embark on the Antioch or the Mosquera for
the world, if I had to take a trip long. For that we have the Victoria, Montoya, Agnes Clarke,
Stephenson Clarke, whose whistle has earned him the popular support of Qui-qui-ri-kee, Roberto
Calixto, etc. These pass always, even on the most feared sprinklers because of its shallow draft
and in the jets, with a simple cable on the other side. As for the transfer they were promised,
we I confess that I have no hope, because here the proposed directors and the river provides.
And are you on board and there is no remedy: be prepared to spend days very hard, do not take
pure water do not eat fruits, do not abuse the brandy and try to have the serene spirit. "

The
latest recommendations, especially that which was departing from the brandy, my only food,
and I imposed intellectual serenity, were so difficult to meet as easy to make. I prepared
myself as best I could to face the future and put into play all the
springs of my energy.

Fatigaré I remember, one by one, the points where the steam is stopped during the three early
days, was to take the eternal wood, were to spend the night.

I have said, I repeat, that the banks of the Magdalena have an essentially primitive aspect,
the found small villages, do not give the slightest idea of ??civilized life. In huts open to
all winds, are crowded, parents, children, women, men and animals many times. Children running
in the margins, completely naked, they look wild. Nor is there any kind of resources, many times
I've fallen, and seeing fresh eggs, I wanted to buy at any price. With a desperate calm, with incredible
apathy, they say: "They are not for sale" and it is necessary to give up any resistance, because
the money does not attractive to those people without needs.

Nature changes slowly, as we go: At first, the river, wide and majestic, runs between the edge
of a deep green, but the vegetation, thick and lush but not reached
proportions that begins to appear to our eyes.

On the left, we see the inimitable picture of the Sierra Nevada, which crosses the state of Magdalena,
is going to die near the sea. Peaks, an intense and immaculate white, wrapped in the evening
on a pink cloud of unspeakable purity. In the west, the space free of mountains, let us see the
most beautiful sunsets I have referred in my life. Impossible to describe this group of incandescent
clouds and tormented, with light beams as a fire, the bottom of a pale gold, still on the
horizon, dissolving its shape and color with a slowness that makes you dream. All shades of
Iris are performed there, from violet deep, which gives your letter force on transparent yellow
to white to pupil strikes disrupting the serenity of the deep blue of the heavens. Never, I repeat,
I was given as supremely beautiful watch box, even in the ocean, when followed the sun in its
descent, forming one of the vertices of that triangle glorious Chateaubriand even among the
gorges of the Andes, on the night falls with amazing speed and that are wrapped in shadow,
while the neighboring peaks sparkle in the rays of sun away even to give his farewell to our
hemisphere.

What happens admirably quiet at that solemn moment! Nature seems to be collected for enter the
region peaceful sleep. The river continues to run quietly, in the woods impenetrable to the
shore where the ship just stopped, but not hear the muted turpial
methodical whistles that his colleague, even the huge and colorful
macaws, with iridescent plumage, arrive in silence and seek among
the branches hanging nest of top of a huge Caracolí, lulled by the
vines that attach.

From time to time, rumor of an echo inside the forest, and again extending its quiet peace rule
over all creation ...

The soft and delicious quietude is short, an invisible army moves in silence, and a moment then feel
intense bites on the hands, face, body the same through clothes. Mosquitoes are terrible Magdalena
making their dreaded appearance. No runs a breath of air, and must seek shelter at the risk
of suffocation, against those animals, that half hour I prostrate beneath the foot. That is
one of the moments of more suffering.

Tends the cot on deck, and above it, a thick net, which edges are held on the mat that serves as
a floor. Then, with infinite precautions, slips one inside the furnace, taking care to be the
only inhabitant of the region between the mat and light canvas protector. Then light a panetela
of Ambalema cigar, cigar in a manner analogous to that of straw and made of exquisite snuff
it is at the point indicated, and that in the hierarchical category immediately follows of
Havana. There begins a nondescript Russian bath, a heat, heavy, deadly sleep away and prevents
the imagination these wonderful trips often make insomnia there exciting and beautiful and serene
majesty of the night.

The next morning, little indication of the dawn, back on track. When running, you hear practical
hood, the machine stops and foremen began to probe forward. The Antioch needs to spend five and a
half feet at least. We ran all anxious tend forward and eagerly listened to the cries of the feelers,
"No bottom!" Nine feet! Eight rare! Six long! The faces begin to darken. Six bugs! Malo, bad! Five
and a half feet! The ship starts rubbing, that is, to slip slowly
the sand and suddenly stops.

Backwards! We retraced our steps, we are one, two, three new attempts: useless! The river has
spread in an extraordinary way and the channel must have changed direction with the movement of
sand. Back to the coast and moor. The pilot takes a canoe and launched a search patiently step through
drilling.

What those horrible days when, leaning against the shore, the tropical sun beating down, without
the slightest movement of air and under the shade temperature reached 38 and 39 degrees Celsius,
wandered in despair, without a place covered, roasted by Irradiation of the boiler, sweating
in abundance, with candescente face, eyes chipped, blood stirred ... and without further recourse
to a glass of warm water with brown sugar [9] brandy!

I will never erase the memory of those hours did not think could handle the human body ...

Days passed in this pleasant life, without the little steamer to be transshipped and tear to
that hell, leave check your smoke on the horizon. We made some progress, thanks to the skill
of the pilot who managed to find a small step, but it was to stop a little above the Barranca
Bermejo, where we definitely tied with chains to huge logs from the shore, the fires were
extinguished and we are at the grace of God.

So we were three days. The few passengers who had played such a tough day, we were, as I have already
said, the Swiss professor, a boy of Bogota, Garcia Mérou and me. Furthermore, came a rare women,
Colombian, a good family, but in France would have gone through a collection Spider au plafond. Not
for nothing out of his cabin, sometimes glimpsed his face, horrible and flushed from the heat,
looking out the door, breath a moment and return to the antrum. I returned to find later a short distance
from Honda, had begun to walk the path of Bogotá, and it cost me a win on him to accept the need
to procure a mule.

- A steam, steam! - Embarrassed a boy shouted, pointing behind a bend in the river a faint column
of smoke that was drawn in the transparent blue sky. It was a revolution on board, in vain tried to stop
the Swiss, explaining that even when the ship announced was the one who so eagerly expected,
would have a day and a half or two to go at that point, as it became
the transhipment of goods.

In vain! The Swiss had precipitated to his cabin and had their bags with an incredible speed
... The vapor appeared, but as all have an equal cut is necessary to wait to hear the whistle to
distinguish them.

Would the Victoria? Would the Calixto? In both cases we were saved. Something like cough prolonged
cold giant, should be something like the whine of a seal that snatch their little boys, came
to our ears, and all the boys shouted board service in chorus: "The
Montoya!"

You must know that as the Montoya in the same company and having us flag at half mast at the
stern, which was asked to stop were lawful rejoice in the hope of transhipment.

Montoya in an instant, gliding on the water for power, with a speed 15 or 16 miles per hour, came
to our side, and staying on the machine, filed correspondence. Ro impossible. Loaded to the brim with
luggage machine. Victoria is ago.

And back on track, losing in the first bend of the river, making hearing, as laughed his unpleasant
whistle. We looked at the faces: I have never seen the despair more deeply etched in human
faces ...

Why insist on the agony of those days have not passed, as I will not ever happen like in life?
Two weeks ago we were in Antioch, his eyes invariably north, waiting,
always waiting, when the same giant cough cold, the same seal desolate
cry, was heard to the south.

It was Montoya, who had had time to reach to near Barranquilla, leaving its cargo at a port and
take the passengers of Confidence who, fearing the fate of Antioch, did not dare upriver. This time
we breathe freely, and an hour later we were on the cover of Montoya, in the center of a large
table laden with rifles, shotguns, Remingtons, sunglasses and surrounded by comfortable chairs,
we produced the sensation of being within the most refined gourmets.

The great suffering of the trip had passed. The vapor Montoya was a kid, but clean cooler than
Antioch, but the vast number of passengers going on it prevented us from have cabins, that is, a
place to wash and move, was so pleased to be able continue the trip,
which did not make us more liable to blackmail the outdoor toilet
and a little in common.

There was a complete collection of passengers, nice people mostly. Senators and deputies who went
to Bogota to the opening of Congress, young American engineers, jobs Railways of Antioch, one
of which, robust man, however, came folded malarial fever contracted
on the voyage; French and English traders; Touristes back and finally,
the entire family of the British Minister, consisting of his wife,
three children English two young maids, chef, maitre d'hôtel, what
do I know?

Harmony, good friends, be filed soon, and only then I really started to enjoy the beauty indescribable
of that wonderful nature.

We spent the day out war with the alligators. I have not spoken yet of those hosts Magdalena characteristic,
because during my unforgettable stay in Antioch I think not having waived a look.

It is the alligator, Nile crocodile and some rivers of India, the alligator of us, but of colossal
dimensions.

It seemed a stretch the length of five to six meters assigning to some a French traveler,
M. André, but after watching thousands alligator, I can assure that there are actually quite
a few who reach this enormous size.

I've seen people cross the river slowly, are preceded by a constant cloud fish jumping out of the
water and at sea, the approximation of a shark or a sharks. But usually only see them on the
sandy beaches to stop the river discovered when it drops.

Are lying in great numbers: I counted up to sixty in a piece of beach that would not more than a
hundred square meters. Motionless as if they had fallen from the ledge of an Egyptian temple,
keep the mouth open, how big is up. In that position, mouth at an angle whose sides do not have
two feet.

I have been staying and for hours, the nauseating smell of his breath attracts mosquitoes that
swarm by millions on the tongue, when a fournée is complete, the alligator closes its jaws
rapidly absorbs the innocent visitors, and again presents the fearsome space and unclean angle.

The
alligator is the scourge of Magdalena, when some unfortunate fashion, bathing or falling his
canoe, has allowed one of his monsters to test the scent of human flesh, the region trembles at the
gator whole priming; amphibian as it is, skip to the beach, slides by arenas with which confuses
his scaly skin and spent hours stalking a child or women. Told me many horror stories in the
Magdalena of ferocious fighting against the alligator, wild value
of the rowers that, like our Indians Corrientes, is thrown into the
river with a knife and melee it expire!

In turn, the alligator is often surprised naps on the beach by the tigers and cougars of the
nearby woods. Then locked an admirable fight, like those Romans, men who have enjoyed most about
land, contemplated in circuses. The alligator is usually the winner, as their skin pachyderm
makes it invulnerable to the claw and tooth aggressor. But what a tiger can not get it a cow
or a bull, when they travel to swim the river, passing on the lower Magdalena Bolivar State
that is named after the river and occupied the right side or vice versa if the alligator attacks
them, raise a little front of the body and make it rain on the aggressor a shower of "punch" with
its horn hooves, it stops, and just stunning to put it on the run ...

It has made the calculation that if all the eggs of cod annually females lay of these nasty animals,
were achieved, the entire section including Atlantic between North America and Europe, would become
a solid mass. The same could Magdalena happen with alligators.

The alligator is oviparous, the female lays a vast number of eggs, large and hard as stone,
burying in the sand. Convenient arrival times, the sensitive mother is registered with the huge
mouth open to the side of the site begins to dig, the little ones,
who have already abandoned shell, jump as it clears the sand that
covered them.

Some give jump directly to the river, others perjeños ignorant of the customs of their race,
jump side of the big mouth that receives maternal and engulfed in a second. It is estimated
that the alligators eat half of their children. Then invades the maternal pity, and such Niobe
to the old, let tears run two so early for their children dead.

A Once in the water, gather the offspring saved and no more loving mother! [10].

What hatred for the alligator! With what joy the sailors, rowers, discover to their seasoned
eyes a swarm of crocodiles on a distant sand, we were given the warning cry! Each takes his
gun, pick your target and fire a while ago. The weapons used were rifles Remington, Spencer,
Winchester, etc. Nothing resists the bullet injured the alligator opens his mouth even larger,
if possible, when dealing in mosquito hunt, raise the head, shaking frenzy, and trailing,
often covered with wounds and dying - for the slow their movements can fire him again and again
- to go and die within the waters or in its mysterious cave.

What a wonderful show! We entered the river section called Angostura. The huge flow water, spread
before in large ditches, runs quiet and fast between the two sides have been approximated as
aspiring to the floating hair of the trees that confused adorn their perfumes. Never one "silver
mirror, running between frames emerald" the poet, was more splendid graphic reflection. They
forget the hardships of the trip, forgetting alligators and falls absorbed in the contemplation
of that wonderful scene that the soul absorbed, while the body enjoys the delight of the temperature
which at times is becoming less intense.

On the shore, almost at the water, stands a gigantic vegetation.