 I was at 17. No Line, Division of Vandamme, lying on the ground seriously
wounded in the head. I really thought my last hour had come. Well, as I say, passing him with all his
staff and the infantry of the Guard, his horse's legs bruised my arm in those terms, it still
hurts. However, such was our enthusiasm that famous day, sitting up as I could, I shouted: "Long
live the Emperor!"

Thus spoke a man unknown to me, about forty years, Malcarado, but rather with features and expression
true beauty fades, but not destroyed by the passions or vices, tall stature, looking alive and
between melancholy and rascally smile, person as well run on the things of the world, especially
in the struggles of this life to the pair lazy and difficult to conduct plenty of imagination and lack
of money; person frank manners and easy, very easy to speak, both in the jokes in earnest, an individual
whose personality was complemented by the most elegant shabbiness of his suit more old than
new, and no less tattered than broken, but all this was put little to see, through the needle
Concealer, which had been corrected and the rubbing of the lollipop as the spelling of the
means.

These were, if I remember correctly, black pants and the last nail color. He wore short hair,
with two mechoncitos on both temples, without any dust, unless it was the road, his dark coat,
and a court is not very common among us ombliguera his vest, is a bit foreign too, and his
tie , report endive, posing him as born outside Spain but was Spanish. But for another reason
other than the oddities of dress, was confounded by such person, and this is a point not to
capitalísimo passed over in silence. The man had a mustache. This was, why deny it, which more
than anything else caught my attention when I saw him leaning over the table, eating avidly about
the way huge bowl of soup, porridge or do not know what possessed delicacy, while dinner enlivened
between spoonfuls telling the exploits of Napoleon I. Two people, both elderly and of the opposite
sex made up his audience: the male, which of course I found an old decommissioned military, listened
with furrowed brow and sullen the praise of invading Spain, but the old lady, more awake and talkative
than his consort, he answered with a certain nonchalance to panegyrist
as funny as irrelevant. - By God, Mr. de Santorcaz - the old saying
- you do not shout or talk about such things where you can hear.

My husband and I already know him from before, we are not astonished
at his antics, but, alas, the vicinity of this house is very intrusive,
very intriguing, and does not deal more than gossip and illusions.
