 

And Gabriel moved away, he could not understand the true extent of this diversion of disciples.
Often, when entering the rooms of the tower to hang out with them, the conversation suddenly
ceased and regarded him with anxiety, fearing, no doubt I could hear his words.

Don Martin for many days not presented in the cloister. Gabriel learned from the Vara silver
mother had died the priest, and a week later I saw one afternoon in Claverias. Her eyes were
red, factions des-bait and skin tight, as I cried a lot.

- I come to say goodbye to you, Gabriel. I spent a month in penalties and caring for insomnia
my mother. Poor dead. There was no young, I expected this final, but for strong resigned and
one is, always feel these blows. When leaving the poor old woman, I am free. That was all that
bound me to this church, which I do not believe. Their dogma is absurd and puerile its history
a tissue of crimes and violence. Why lie, like others, feigning faith that does not feel? Today
I was in the palace to say that I have seven hard Monthly and the chaplain of the nuns. I'm going,
not only fled the church, I want to avoid their environment, and Toledo priest can not live a "renegade."
Do you see this disguise? Today I carry on last time. Tomorrow I will enjoy the first joy of
my life, ripping the shroud into small pieces very small, so that anyone can use. I will man I will
go away, as far as possible; I want to know how the world, since it alive. I know no one, I have
no protection; you are the most extraordinary man I ever met, and is hidden in a dungeon by
will, taking refuge in a temple for his conscience completely empty .... I'm not afraid of
misery when it has been a representative of God with six reals a day, you can watch the face
to face hunger. I will be working, I will work the land if necessary, employ me in any thing
... but I'll be a free man.

Two friends walked through the cloister, advising Gabriel Don Martin. In determining the point
where they should go, his preference fluctuated between Paris and the American republics more faults
of emigration.

By late afternoon, Gabriel said goodbye to his disciple, he was waiting
for the partner the lower cloister to lock in the temple.

- We may
not see more - said the priest sadly -.

You will end his days here in the home of a God who does not believe.

- Yes, I will die here - Gabriel said, smiling -. He and I hate, and yet it seems that can do
nothing without me. If you have to go outside, I am one who guides his steps, and at night I,
too, who keep their wealth .... Health and good luck, Martin. Whether you are a man without
fainting. The truth is well worth the misery.

The disappearance of the chaplain of the nuns was done without fuss. Don Antolin and other priests
believed that the young man had moved to Madrid by ambition, to swell the number of clergy
applicants. Gabriel was the only one who knew the true fate of Don Martin. And soon forget the young
priest was great news, that echoed in the cathedral like thunder, bringing excitement to the gentlemen
in the choir, the small fry of the sacristy, the entire population
of the upper cloister.

Were over disputes between the archbishop and the council.

In Rome approved everything done by Cardinal, and His Eminence roared
with joy in his palace, with the fierce impetuosity that showed in
all its expansions.

The canons, on entering the choir, went with his head down, and embarrassed and afraid.

- But have you seen ...?-- is said to undress in the sacristy.

And at a good pace, with billowing cloak, left the church every man for himself, avoiding form
groups or cliques, each to watch free of responsibilities, to appear clean of any complicity
with the enemies of the prelate.

El Tato laughed with joy seeing the dispersion and the bewilderment of the gentlemen of the choir.

-
Run, run! Well I will put the body the man ...!

Preparations were made every year for the great feast of the Virgen del Sagrario mid-August.
In talking to the cathedral of that year with a mystery and anxiety others, as if waiting for extraordinary
events. Your Eminence, that the temple did not come down many months of not seeing the council, chaired
by the choir on the day of the party. Wanted look closely at their enemies, crushing them with
his triumph, rejoicing in his confused look submission. And as it approached the religious solemnity,
shaking many canons, thinking hard look at the pride that would nail them the angry prelate.

Gabriel
paid little attention to the concerns of the clerical world. His life strange. Much of the day was
spent sleeping, preparing for the weary watch of the night, I did just now. Mr. Fidel was ill,
and for the Obrería, avoiding expenditure not deprive the elder of his meager salary, he refrained
from asking for a new partner.

Spent nights in the cathedral with the same tranquility that I was in the cloister, high, used
to the silence of cemeteries. Not sleep, read in light of his lantern books could be found
in the Claverias: cold treaties in history, in which played Providence the main role, lives of
saints, which amused him by his credulous simplicity, bordering on
grotesque, and that Don Quixote of the moon so many times, there were
small lettering, and who thought himself something of the freshness
of childhood.

Came the day of the Virgin. The party was the same as in every year. The famous picture was out
of the chapel, occupying a site on its base on the high altar.

He wore the mantle kept at the Treasury and all her jewels, which sparkled caressed by the forest
of lights as if laughing with trembling scale of brilliance.

Before starting the party, curious of the cathedral, pretending distracted,
walked between the choir and the Puerta del Perdon.

The canons, with their red robes, reuníanse close of the stairway lit by the famous stone
of light. There would drop his eminence, and gentlemen of the choir were grouped tentatively,
whispering, as if wondering what would happen.

Appeared on the first flight of stairs the portacruz, moving horizontally your logo of double
arms to pass under the archway. Then, between family members, and followed the purple robe of the
auxiliary bishop, moved the Cardinal, dressed in purple, which faded purplish red color of the
canons.

The council was formed in two rows, with his head down, paying deference to her prince. What
a look of Don Sebastian! The canons, inclined to feel believed in the neck with coldness of steel.
Stood the huge body within its graceful purple wrap arrogance, as if at that moment she felt
cured of the disease that their belly scratched and heart failure,
which oppressed her lungs.

Chubby face trembling joy fat folds of his chin quivered on the lace surplice. Biretta Cardinal
seemed to swell with pride over his head small, white and pink. Never was carried a crown
so proudly as that red hat.

He extended his purple-gloved hand on which shone the emerald bishops, and a imperious gesture
had one after another they were kissing all the canons.

Was the submission Men's Church, accustomed from an apparent humility seminar that covers resentment
and hatred of an intensity not seen in ordinary life. Cardinal guessed the discouragement after
this modesty and savored his triumph.

- You do not know what our hatred - had said several times to his friend the gardener -. In ordinary
life there are few men who die of disgust.

The angry feelings are vent and regain the peace. But in the Church include hundreds who die a fit
of anger could not revenge, because the discipline they shut up and Abbe his head. Lacking
family and concerns for bread, most of us only live for the self-esteem
and pride.

Procession was formed in the town hall, accompanied by His Eminence. Led the way, the dogcatcher
red the black vergers Silver Stick, rattling the tiles with the blows of canes. Behind the archbishop
and the canons cross pairs, and ultimately the prelate, with its red tail, extending along its length,
carried aloft by two pages.

Don Sebastian blessed and fro, looking with their little eyes piercing the faithful, who bowed
head.

His imperious nature and the joy of victory made her eyes sparkle. What a great victory ...!
The temple was his home, and returned to it after a long absence, with all the majesty of an
owner I could crush all the slaves who dared to attack him cursing.

The greatness of the Church appeared to him at that time greatest
ever.

How admirable institution! The strong man who came to the top became a powerful and awesome God. Nothing
harmful equality and revolutionary. The largest was always right. The dogma extolling all humility
before God, but by setting examples, always spoke of herds and herders to be led. He was the pastor,
because they wanted the Almighty. Woe to try astray ...!

In the choir, the joy of your pride like an even greater satisfaction. He sat in the throne
of the archbishop of Toledo, that chair had been the star of his youth, and the memory of which
troubled him in the middle of the episcopate, when he walked through the provinces miter waiting
time to get to the Primacy.

There stood under the canopy artistic Mount Tabor on four steps to being seen well all the choir
and be convinced that was his prince. The heads of the dignitaries were seated by his side
almost to the level of his feet. Underfoot like snakes could rise again if they dared, in his most
biting intimate affection.

Inspired by the appreciation of his greatness and success, was the
first to stand or sit, as it marked the ritual of the trades, and
joined its voice to the chorus, amazing all with the rough energy
of his singing.

The Latin words came from his mouth as blunderbuss against those people hated, and his eyes
went to challenge on the expression of two rows of heads slopes.

He was a man of fortune, who had gone from success to success, and yet had never felt a satisfaction
so deep, so complete as that of the time.

He was frightened their joy, bursting with pride that their chronic ailments cushioning. It seemed
I was spending a few hours supply all his life.

After the Mass, the singers and other young folks in the choir, who were the only ones who dared
look at him, became alarmed when he saw him pale, haggard face up
to, taking the hands to the chest.

Warned the canons, they ran to him, forming a tight mass of garments red before his throne.
His Eminence was choking, struggling between the circle of hands instinctively grabbed him.

- Air ...!-- roared - air ...! Take off the front with a thousand cheers! Let me take home!

Even in the midst of his anguish, he found the strong signal and its
former soldier votes repel the enemy.

Drowning, but did not want to be looked upon the canons. Guessed many of them the satisfaction
after the act contrite. Nobody touch him! He is enough! And supported by two faithful family,
rode off toward the stairs panting archbishop followed by much of the council.

The religious function hastily finished.

To forgive the Virgin, another year would have increased solemnity. And the authorities and
guests left their seats to run altar demand for news in the Episcopal
Palace.

On waking Gabriel, past noon, all spoke in the upper cloister of his health Eminence. His brother
asked Aunt Tomasa, who came from the palace.

- You die, children
- said the gardener -; of this is no exception.

Visit Donna has taught me far cry poor.

Can not lie. Her chest dances like a broken bellows.

The Doctors say it through the night.

What a disgrace ...! And on a day like this ...!

The agony of the ecclesiastical prince was greeted with a funereal
silence.

Women in Claverias came and went with news from the palace to the
upper cloister.

The youngsters remained held in the rooms, frightened by the threats of the mothers if they
tried to play in the galleries.

The choirmaster, always insensitive to the events of the cathedral, leaving, however, to take
state news of His Eminence.

Had a project, who spoke quickly the family during dinner. The funeral of a cardinal well deserved
to run a celebrated Mass with full orchestra recruited in Madrid. He already had his eye on
the famous Requiem Mozart. It was for all he was interested in the fate of the prelate.

Gabriel looked at his companion, he felt the sweet egoism experiences living when Die powerful.

- Since the great fall, Sagrario. And we sick, wretched, still lie ahead some life.

At the time the temple was closed down to begin the surveillance.

The sexton was waiting with the keys.

- What about the Cardinal? - Asked Gabriel.

- Well, it dies today, if not already dead.

And then he added:

- Tonight, Gabriel, you have great lighting.

The Virgin is on the altar, until tomorrow, surrounded by candles.

He paused, as if hesitating.

- Maybe - he said - down to make a bit of company. You just get bored. Wait.

When Gabriel was locked in the temple, he saw a piece of glowing altar lights. He made his usual
requisition of doors and gates, visited the Locum, large closets,
where once they had hidden thieves, and then he was convinced that
in the cathedral there was no other living being that he was to sit
on the cruise with his blanket and Shopping for dinner.

He stayed there a long time, staring through the fence the Virgen del Sagrario. Born in the cathedral
and led a child by his mother to kneel before the statue, had admired
as the most perfect type of beauty.

Now appreciated coldly eyed artist.

It was ugly and grotesque, like all images that are rich. The sumptuous
and opulent mercy had disguised its treasures.

There was nothing in it of idealism painted Virgins by Christian artists. Rather it was an idol
of Hindu ornate jewelry. The skirt and the mantle is recessed with the bombast of a crinoline,
and you touch a crown huge as a Morion, dwarfing the face.

Gold, pearls, diamonds, shining on his clothes. He wore earrings and bracelets of great value.

Gabriel
smiled thinking of the religious simplicity, you saw the heroes under
heaven the fashions of the earth.

The faint glow of the sunset coming down from the windows and the anxious calls of candles
formed a ripple of light and shadow, animating the face image as gesture.

"Even as I am! - Was said Gabriel -. If my place was a devout believe that Lady laughs a few moments
and then cries. With a little imagination and faith, behold a miracle!

These vagaries of light have been an inexhaustible mine for priests. Venus also other times changed
the expression on his face, laughing or crying like the faithful as a Christian image. "

He thought a long time in the miracle invention of all religions, and as old as human ignorance
and credulity.

Dark. After dinner sparingly, Gabriel opened a book he had in his basket and stood to read in
the light of his flashlight.

Occasionally raised his head, distracted by the fluttering and the cries of the night big
birds, attracted by the extraordinary glow of the forest of candles.

Time passed slowly. In the darkness of the vaults echoed the Argentina hammered the warriors of
the clock. Luna got up and ran the church, visiting the counters to make his rounds.

Had struck ten, when he heard Gabriel opened the shutters of the front of Santa Catalina, but
quickly and without violence, as if they had made use of a key. Luna recalled Ringer offer. Then
they heard the footsteps of several people, but enlarged by echo,
as if you advance an entire army.

- Who? - Cried Gabriel, something
alarmed.

- We, the man - said the voice in the dusky shadows of Mariano
-.

Did not I would drop?

Upon entering the cruise gave full light of the high altar. Gabriel was with the ringer to Tato
and zapaterillo.

Luna wanted to accompany part of the night, so you will not be so heavy guard, and brought a
bottle of brandy that was offered.

- You know I do not drink - "Gabriel -. I've never liked alcohol, wine, and not much ... But
where are you going, dressed like the holidays?

El Tato was quick to respond. Silver Stick closed at nine in the Claverias, and they wanted to
spend the night away from home.

They had already been a long time in a coffee Zocodover gifts like
gentlemen.

They were made a few skulls. That night was extraordinary, especially since the city was also
impaired at the archbishop.

- What next? - Asked Gabriel.

- I think he died half an hour ago - said the sexton -. When I uploaded to my home at keys,
a doctor came out of the palace, and so he said to a Canon .... But sit down.

They took every seat, his cap pulled, on the steps of the altar gate. Mariano put down the bunch
of keys, a bunch of iron as a club. They were of all times: a gross
and rusty, with traces of the hammer, displaying shields near the
handle, more modern, polished and shiny as if they were silver, but
all huge and heavy, sturdy teeth, which suited the grandeur of the
building.

The three friends seemed extremely happy, with a joy that
made them nervous push and laugh. They looked askance at the Virgin
and then looked at each other with a gesture mystery he could not
understand Gabriel.

- You have drunk a lot, right? - Said Luna with
a gentle reproach -. Do evil, as you know drinking is the degradation
of the poor.

- One day is one day, man - said the dog catcher -.
Glad the big die. You see; I admired his Eminence, as the club is
made! The only satisfaction you poor is to see those above them also
comes a time.

- Baby - Ringer said, offering the bottle -. It is
a joy to be here healthy and cheerful, while His Eminence will be
tomorrow from four tables. Menudo will release chime all day!

Tato
drank, and passed the bottle to the shoemaker, who was long with his
mouth close to neck. Of the three, it seemed the most drunk. Her eyes
were red, hard look everywhere and remained silent. Necessarily only
smile when I ran the word as if his thoughts were far, far away.

The
sexton, however, was more talkative than usual. He spoke of the cardinal's
fortune, of how rich it would be Dona Visitation of the joy that would
have that night many of council. And was interrupted for empinar the
bottle of brandy, then passing the peers. The alcohol vapor is spread
in that environment steeped in incense smoke wax.

It was more than
an hour. Mariano had cut the conversation several times, as if to
say something serious, and hesitated, devoid of value. Finally decided.

-
Gabriel spends time and we still much to do and to talk. They are
little more than eleven. There are still hours to do the thing well.

-
What do you mean? - Luna asked with surprise.

- Few words to the
point. It is you to be rich and be us, we want to leave of this misery
.... Already noticed long ago that we fled from you, that the pleasure
of hearing you preferred to talk to us. Is that you are a wise, but
not worth a penny for things in life. You learn, but not out of poverty
... We have spent months thinking the need to strike lucky. These
revolutions that we speak are far away. The see our grandchildren,
and perhaps not even to see. It is good that the wise think of the
future, but the gross and we only see the present. We spent the time
flowing atrocities: Don Sebastian kidnap and ransom demand of one
million, enter the palace one night, and I do not know what else ...!
All nonsense designed for your nephew. But this morning, at home,
lamenting the misery, we have seen the salvation soon