 She
further. Did something that seemed impossible, given what he was talkative, learned to shut up, listen
with attention and don Braulio compel him to speak, of which Don Braulio left happy.

Finally, with general conversation, the Count dropped the reins to his good humor, skewered thousand
humorous blunders, always within the limits not just of decency,
but the more delicate manners, and enjoyed and rejoiced at the meeting,
be making nice to everyone.

Thus prepared the minds, when they had just struck eleven, and abandon the proposed Condesa
Gardens and all go home to tea. Don Braulio, although it had laughed at the thanks Earl and was
glad that he had heard discreet, scales both gift and was not a little startled to see how it
was getting into the big trot world, but could not resist. The Countess was going to take up her
house in his car. Then, from the house of the Countess to Don Braulio
had a few steps to go.

Raided and the difficulties it would have been rude not to accept the invitation.

Don Braulio thus accepted in the company of his wife and Ines, the
four in the same Landau open that night was an intimate gathering
to the daily running of the Countess of San Teódulo.

X

In general, no gathering or meeting for fun where no dancing or to play cards. Without sitting for the
elderly and no polkas and waltzes for the young, all usually bored.

Is admirable, therefore, a gathering, like our Condesa, where only had fun chatting with people.
The woman who manages to have a chat and can boast have put a pike in Flanders. Know how many
of these businesses will be recognized worldly in women who preside over such gatherings uncommon
gifts of understanding.

Other singular virtues shone also in Rosita. It was so good as a bad friend for the enemy. Her
husband wanted, cared for him and petted him as the most faithful and consort lover. This had
not prevented it had estimated after and loved and otherwise other shades and hues of honey.

Women
usually do not understand that there is only one baby, giving full someone or distributed in this
way or the other. Rosita was not. Rosita felt understood and various affections, not destroying each other
and are harmonized nicely. The Count of San Teodulo loved him in a way, his poet wanted another,
and these feelings, own and exclusive of women arose others that seemed to start the fund essential
spirit where there is no difference of woman and man of principle neutral, before you purchase
determination sexual.

I mean that Rosita loved many of his commentators to a friend similar to what a man can feel for
another man, with a sweetness most ineffable her as a woman, and even pretty woman, manages
to put into this friendship, completely oblivious all feel love.

The
first of these friends was the Comte de Rosita Alhedín. Between Rosita
and the Count had not secrets. Everything is trusted. The Earl looked
at her friend consolation for their troubles and tips for your difficulties.