 While the Catalan capital and Malaga, Valencia, Alicante and Gibraltar traffic
dispute will turn towards the Mediterranean, Seville, Coruña, Santander and Bilbao competition
make it across the Atlantic. Its population, which at the time of Spanish rule America did not lower
than 100.000 inhabitants, is now reduced to just over 70,000.

Cadiz traditions I was interested in every respect. From there came the most important Spanish
expeditions, both at the time of settlements undertaken on the New World, and during the terrible
war of independence "Colombia," Mexico, Peru, Chile, Buenos-Aires, etc. Colombian freedom was
not anywhere as implacable enemies as in Cadiz, the residence of the famous company that had a
monopoly of trade between Europe and several Spanish-Colombian colonies. And strange to say,
that proves how much the interests of influence the political monopoly of the nations - the same
people who so raw Cadiz war do to the revolution of the New World, was at the same time the refuge
of the Patriots Spanish and the ark of salvation for the nationality of Spain, in their heroic
struggle against Napoleon and despotism .... Many ills suffered by the Spanish people, without understanding
since the cause of freedom and the right was the same in Spain than in Colombia, and that the patriots
of both worlds as brothers were to ally rather than make war!

Other memories assaulted me in Cadiz. Aside from its heroic defense against the English, in 1626, 1772
and 1797, and against the French in 1811, also apart of the interesting episodes political, liberal
constitution of 1812 and the heroic revolution of 1820 led by Irrigation and Quiroga, Cádiz me to
remember that there was born that fierce Brigadier Enrile, peacemaker awful memory of my homeland,
and died there miserable, hungry and lacerated by a thousand bitterness at the bottom of a dungeon,
the illustrious and generous Miranda, warrior revolution French and Colombian independence
martyr, treated by some with ingratitude and supreme by others with
a cold cruelty!

The belt of high walls (double and even triple in some areas) that completely surrounds at Cadiz,
has a circumference of 7.500 Spanish yards. Thus, wherever the traveler aims to find a solution
runs into a mass of stone, soldiers and guns, seeing foam at the bottom of the ocean waves crashing
violently into the sand banks and the dangerous reefs that serve the island ahead seating to
castles and fortifications. If the view of the bay is picturesque and varied, which has over the ocean
south and south-west from the walkway of the "Alameda" is a breathtaking majesty. From the outset,
Cadiz had offered me many similarities in appearance with the city of Cartagena in "New Granada."
Similarity is not the word itself: I do not know what analogy is vague in the configuration
of the island and bays, the exterior structure of the city, something very harmonious style
fortifications, in the atmosphere and sky. Touring the beautiful Paseo de la Alameda, the squares
and streets, and observe the people there, the guy community was apparent. In every elegant Cadiz
believed to see a daughter of Cartagena: the accent, the manners, the ease, panache full of kindness
and dengue, black eye and sweet, adorable smile of coquetry, the complexion of a soft, pale brown,
measured and lordly gait, kindness and openness insinuating, and I do not know what's voluptuous
dress, delicate but expressive forms and the inevitable game fan, - all contributed to produce
an illusion that made me think of the country.

The sun sank like a glowing ember in the waves of an infinite horizon, the Alameda was full
of walkers and had to do like a charming animation. The stage seemed a large basket of flowers
floating in the eddies of a stream. The sea produced the standing of its formidable walls
clicking, releasing clouds of foam snapshots, whilst hundreds of walkers roamed amid the groves
and beautiful gardens the 'Alameda', almost under the balcony and the shutters of the splendid houses
that dominate the levees and embankments. The reverberating roof, - the picturesque balconies
green and blue - the tall, graceful Moorish-style roofs, - the bush filled with flowers and perfumes,
- the animated groups of a population in which they looked very different types - gleaming marble
more luxurious houses - castles standing on the distant waves, - the mountains, confused in the
distance - the rough seas and swaying under her mantle of twilight, - the sun, a large optical
effect, such as swimming in the ocean - stirring gently in the breeze trees, - the extraordinary
beauty of heaven, - all this filled me with charm, intoxicated, leaving
the soul a very profound impression that I will never forget.

I needed time to look carefully. Spain is a country that can not be well studied in less than three
years, and I could only have three months to collect impressions, noticing things more salient
and important. No monument found me worthy Cadiz special attention under the artistic point of view.
What makes this city a population Interestingly, its position, as
a whole, their particular style of buildings, their social air, historical
memories and their economic value.

Cadiz, which had fallen as much commercial space since losing the exploitation of Colombia, begins
to regain its animation, thanks to the new steamship lines, to significant improvements on
the roads to the interior of Andalusia, and the economic revival Spain has had since 1855.
Its exports are salt, oil, wine, fruit dry and other Andalusian, - is an important place of
call and deposit, and manufactures some objects of art, as well as applicable to the marina.
Fisheries seeks him considerable profits. Sitting on a rock, as it lacks running water the higher
is its vast and numerous tanks.

Hospitals and has beautiful large number of educational institutions, charities, credit, trade and navigation.

Of
course, the climate, the influence of Moorish domination and the Spanish taste, have determined
Cadiz the same kind of constructions that almost the entire peninsula and especially in the
Andalucías. Thus, the streets are in general or in its more narrow and gloomy winding, bumpy
and full of whimsy. But is there a particular stamp of elegance and taste not found in any
of the other major Spanish cities, except to Seville. He feels a keen pleasure to go almost
all the streets of Cadiz, or to stand under the thick shade of the magnificent trees of the squares
of "San Antonio" and "Mina." Apart from the interest they excite people of all cliques of conditions
and the elegant shops full of curious, wherever you walk from one surprise to explore the best
streets, paved not richly tiled.

Everywhere graceful balconies, discrete lattice, obscured inside by fine curtains, behind which folds
half hidden from view some gorgeous faces as appearances ideals the viewpoints of crystal
air, capricious on steep ceilings, windows with iron gratings very curious, the vast rooftop
adorned of vases with flowers and small shrubs sunlit and agitated by sea breezes. But nothing so
strange, so deliciously beautiful and luxurious as the homes of the richest owners in the
main squares and streets, palaces true tale, of Orientalism charming. In all of them a magnificent
cover or rich marble and jasper, worked with care; an entrance that looks like the prelude to
a sumptuous room with the flooring and walls marble, stucco ceiling and superb interior door
glass with carved arabesques and beautiful colors. The door is always open during the day. You
approach, and a servant falls steps in and invites you to the point with the greatest care to visit
the house, although the family is present. If you accept, the owner (a wealthy businessman)
is presented, and a almost irresistible warmth compelling - to see that you are abroad - I repeat
the invitation, I pray that you may bring up, I asked if you want a drink, etc.

I had seen the splendid palaces and sumptuous hotels in France, England, Barcelona and Madrid, but
had no idea such a beautiful house, so as Eastern Romanesque I visited in Cadiz and Seville.
You pass in front of the vestibule, and you find yourself in a square courtyard and cloistered
on all four sides is the building covered by a high dome glass that makes it look like a greenhouse.
On the sides, on the ground floor, are the vast rooms for business or offices to the owner, at
the bottom there is an elegant catwalk leading to the courtyards (patios true), standing at the sides,
and in snail, and at right angles, the monumental staircase leading to the three, four or five
floors of the house. From the base to the glass dome is projected throughout the interior Quad-salon
continuous balconies so many orders and how many floors is cloistered home. There is no pavement
on the covered patio (which is how the central chamber), on the stairs the interior balconies and
all parts of the building, which is not composed of superb tiles square white marble and blue,
or black or mottled, there is a balcony, a door, a rail not have a thousand arabesques, and exquisite
moldings and tastefully, there is a wall not richly stuccoed and dressed. Each courtyard has at
its center a valuable source of marble fountains to cool the air, and around the campus are
large jars Gaspe, porcelain, etc., containing delicate shrubs, pots of jasmine, roses and
carnations, Naranjillos blossoms, vines or parasites, which embalm that heady atmosphere.
It is believed a dream with some of the oriental tale, and for the enjoyment is complete for the
lover of art, every yard of these are a few marble statues and holds within its walls ten or
twelve paint beautiful pictures.

Sunlight, falling vertically at noon, or weakened by entering the
lower part produces the most strange effects of brightness, shade
and chiaroscuro, and at night, when the interior is lighted by gas,
this museum-garden in the middle of the waters murmur supplier, is
a ravishing beauty.

This is where families gather, they are visits and enjoys home gatherings during the hottest
months in of summer, when there is no preference roof.

Cadiz is in marble lavished everywhere. In large hotels, in many and splendid cafés, theaters,
churches, squares and all the monuments there is a floor luxury he admires. Coffee 'Apollo', one
of the most beautiful and original I known, fun and draws attention
to the traveler, and gives an idea of ??the character ardent, cordial,
voluptuous and expansion of the population of Cadiz.

During the early hours of the night, plazas of San Antonio and Mina (the first in particular)
and large adjacent streets have great animation and offer the most curious customs boxes. The
women of Cadiz are usually beautiful, hot and attractive: that, and the commercial status of
the city makes the misfortune of them in the classes most exposed to weaknesses and temptations.
Thus, prostitution Cadiz is in proportion to scare. It's outrageous the number of women in unhappy
establishments that kind of corruption, and experts speculate the infamy the direction of those
houses, namely the ignominy of European societies. Contáronme things What terrified me, and
anecdotes about people of high society, to be true, would give a very sad idea of ??morality
Cadiz. I do not believe what I was told by some people, and took Cadiz HOWEVER, under this aspect,
painful impressions .... Much could be said about what I have observed in major Spanish cities,
but the matter is repugnant and shocking, and the Colombian world, fortunately, does not know
certain things it is best to ignore forever. There are so many fallacies in European civilization
so much misery ... dishonoring the progress and do sometimes feel ashamed of what makes humanity
.... In Spain is a singular contrast, religion is not free: the Catholic believer is not no
can worship God, - but prostitution is not only legitimized by the law, but authority that regulates
and manages the carefully!

Sufficient to judge the organization of that country (whose people have admirable qualities characteristics
and severe defects of education) the simple fact these two contrasts: law speculation the game
through the lottery, but restricts the innocent and productive work; maintains and manages the
prostitution, but press the conscience and conviction to imprisonment to which distributed the
Bible and the Gospels without notes Scio father!

* * * * *

Despite the interest that could have the city of Jerez, as strong and large population center wine
production, we had more strong desire to sail from the lower Guadalquivir
mouth to Sevilla.

       We prefer, therefore, this way, but we wanted before we embark interesting
to know the population living near Cadiz.

Taking a car and leaving the premises of the city by the road to Jerez, it is easy to visit
San Fernando, Puerto-Real and Harbor-Santa-Maria.

The landscape, if facing the mainland, monotonous, equality of the land and nature crop, but it
is picturesque and lively, if there is a tendency in view of the sea, is to repair in the shipyard
of the bay, where there is enough movement, is to take a quick glance
at the extensive salt marshes of San Fernando, whose production is
very significant and employs a large number of workers.

The salt is monopolized in Spain, probably prove an infinite gratitude to God for having surrounded
by the sea to the Spanish mainland. This monopoly (the state that produces a strong income,
however smuggling) provides the Spanish to the invaluable benefits of eating the salt of their
huge costs and expensive bad, but why stop doing business the big speculators who exploit salt
waterproof.

The City of San Fernando, Cadiz separate fortresses, ramparts and a large sea trench that cuts
the island of Leon, is located towards the end of this, which is linked to the mainland by
two bridges. Nearby there are numerous orchards, and everywhere revealed in the vast salt marshes,
the gunners and factories, the nature of their production.

Its main elements are: salt, in a very large sum (which is exported), land metalloids pickles
and cast objects and marina, as well as arts and crafts. The situation, of city ??is curious,
by the way for the semi-circular canal surrounding side continent and that determines the
island. It seems as if two long bays or languages ??slimmest sea ??water were to crash and confused
under the bridges of Zuazo and Chiclana, which give way into the country.

San Fernando has general similarities to Cadiz in its field structure, and appearance is little
more or less similar. There is another characteristic that its astronomical observatory, which is
much lower than in Cadiz, so famous in the Spanish and Colombian geography. The population
San Fernando reached about 17.000 inhabitants, generally industrious
and engaged in rough manufacturing jobs and artifacts.

The countless inns or isolated houses ahead San Fernando to Cadiz side has an original and picturesque,
this is where crowds of thousands of workers employed at the shipyard of the Ratchet and many
factories in the vicinity, forming at certain times of day many groups as lively as curious.
Passing through the midst of them feel a strong smell of tar, salt and other materials that reveal
from the first moment the kind of occupation of these people.

The yard of the Carrack, a kind of floating population and solid at the same time, which composed
of ships, vast warehouses and workshops, offers an interesting picture, not so much the merit of establishing
the air as workers, buildings, etc. It is in that shipyard, located on the bay near the salt, as
to 1.200 meters of San Fernando, where Spain has one of the best
naval factories.

There are built ships war, and sometimes even trade of all sizes and conditions, and becomes
the cowling, as well as working on a large scale canvas for sails, ropes, cables, etc. Thousands
of workers constantly work at that point in the bay and its vicinity, and in the manufacture
naval, and in the exploitation and manufacture of salt. After stretching in several directions
many works of fortification, which are in some way the defenses of Cadiz and background the
bay.

Port Royal, located on the mainland coast, at the bottom of the bay is a nice population of 5.000
souls. The vicinity of the mouth of Zurraque (south) and confused with one arm sea, and Guadalete,
which enters the north, in the corner of the bay, the modern structure the streets and houses
(usually symmetric) and its pier and harbor filled with fishing Seafood
and carrying water boatmen, the table to the two sides are equidistant,
The yard of the Ratchet and the "Trocadero"

(commercial use) that is to the west on the bay, the animation of the people and the grace of
the neighboring gardens and country houses - all this contributes to make Port Royal a picturesque
and lively population. That is the walking and break for the rich Cadiz, many owners of houses
and villas pleasure at this point in the Spanish coast.

"Port-Saint-Mary" is much more significant. Delay, as I said, at the bottom of a small Gulf (north-west
of Port-Royal) whose waters are separated from the Bay of Cadiz by peninsula or tongue of land where
the "Trocadero". Santa Maria, which is about 14 km from Jerez and Cádiz, 21, is the end of
the road to Seville, and there recently completed the railway passes. From there lies a land
of imponderable wealth of carefully cultivated vineyards (and many
other fruit trees), both from the point Jerez, towards the interior,
whether by the coast in the direction of Rota (the country's famous
tintilla) and the lower Guadalquivir.

The distance between St Mary and Port Royal is so short, the Guadalete involved, that in fact the
former seems to belong both to the bay same as the Gulf said. Its main communications with
Cadiz are sustained through vapor coming out of a good spring and consistently across the bay.

Santa-Maria
is a beautiful town with over 21.000 inhabitants, with much activity and movement agricultural,
industrial and commercial. Lies at the foot of a hill overlooking the right bank Guadalete, and
is literally surrounded by orchards and vineyards. It has many institutes public, many factories
(mainly of fine liquors, pickles, hats and soap), and apart from its strong production of
wines, cultivated many arts and crafts. The structure is generally good, notably the beautiful
street called Long. There is the type of populations Andalusia, active and industrious in general,
where there are rarely any symptoms reveals of poverty or decay.

* * * * *

The time we needed to continue the tour. So, we went to a small coastal steamer and returned
to Cadiz. Sevilla had to leave for the next day, and we take the second night we had visiting
a theater and some cafes. Nothing particular in the theater elegant and well attended (because the
Spanish people are very passionate about the shows to impress strongly or make you laugh), but found,
like most of Spain, a farce sung to pieces, with the name of zarzuela, and the usual choreographic
developments French style - that are making it unbearable pest lose
their originality and grace Spanish theater.

       Instead of a good comedy or a good drama (and there are plenty in
Spain) the public has to swallow how can a comic opera in bad taste,
which degrades the same time to the play and opera.

In retaliation, the coffee is in all Spanish cities most curious social element. To an inhabitant
of northern Europe nothing could be more unpleasant perhaps, but for a noon child of Hispanic
or Colombia, with the instincts of expansion and sociability, the scene has many attractions.
I said, speaking of Barcelona and Madrid, the most noteworthy approached the cafes in Spain.
As the spirit of the people is strongly liberal in all major Spanish cities, and particularly
in Andalusia, coffee, - element expansion frank and free discussion and censure - is more important
even in Cadiz Sevilla, etc., Where the liberal opinion it takes full advantage. The piano (furniture
infallible in the big brown) helps to raise the spirits and increase
the noise of hundreds of parishioners - not infrequently serving epigrammatic
instrument, according to the mood of the crowd.

It is common to express opposition there trends the national government, aversion to the French
government, etc., making run (with applause loud and unanimous) and the hymn of Irrigation,
and the Marseillaise, or another piece that involves an strong political reference.

Apollo Coffee, where we settled in Cadiz for a few hours in two nights, we sought a means of
making curious observations on the political practices Cadiz. Even inside the unique structure of coffee
helped to make interesting scene, having some resemblance to the elegant homes that I have described,
being observed from one of the top balcony overlooking the great room and details of all groups
simultaneously. I was stunned to hear the Spanish speaking on more serious matters: I seemed
to be Bogotá in a cafe (where they speak with absolute freedom) but, in truth, was mutual tolerance
in the most frank and earnest discussions of the Spanish. Were said more clarity, without insulting,
but seasoned with the usual Spanish pepper the three CCC, without having the slightest fear
of a disagreement. They talked about the queen ... workmanship; put to the ministry of turns,
or vented their hilarity epigrammatic and its terrible censorship
on the Captain General, Governor, the Bishop or the first character
were at hand.

It's really rare ease and wit with which the Spanish people manage the epigram and knows how
to apply a saying at every opportunity.

This unique political and social importance of the cafes in Spain made me think a little. She dates
from the time of constitutional government, so it is an institution very modern. Is it a good or a bad? -
I asked myself. Of course the coffee become club has its advantages: it tends to eliminate this
isolation that froze to Spanish society, and unnerved and kept in the intellectual and moral
impotence, distracts from the temptation of game, as general in Spain (because of the institutions)
and is an amazing fusion Social class and self-organization of public opinion, opposed to the
constraints strung under the more general and overt ways.