 

XII

The next day I ate at my Aunt Medea with Don Benito and Uncle
Ramon.

Did the chronicle dance before sitting down to eat, but by occupying our seats, the conversation
ranged the subject. My aunt had had a furious quarrel that day in the Philanthropic Society I
do not know what purpose bazaar that his colleagues had allowed to dispense entirely it. To
hear us talk about the dance, we were forced to keep quiet, he directed two or three sentences
hurtful my uncle, having been allowed to attend the club and began to tell their journey. It
seems that this had been a field of Agramante: the emotion of my aunt had been made three times
a vote and three times he had been rejected. Furious, as she knew only be when stung his rage,
had left the company with his hat all bent, roaring like a lioness, with her skirt tucked up,
and on foot, with short, quick step, he had arrived home without interrupting the colossal series
of curses that had been fired from his hated mates.

My aunt was sitting at the table without appetite, excited as ever
because of the altercation I just tell without details.

His eyes, more congested than usual, shone in a sinister way. My Uncle Ramon went from a peaceful
mood to a complete annihilation, struck under fire those feline eyes.

The broad face of my aunt revealed the startling reflection of your veins drowned by waves a
thick blood lazy and motionless. When sitting at the table he had assaulted a thousand discomforts unknown
to her: hot flashes momentarily that his cheeks reddened lax fire blows to the eye, stabbing pains
in the neck, lightning, obscuration, beats and whatnot vague forebodings of a sudden attack crossed
prick your imagination and making it cry out from time to time with some desperate agitation:

-
Jesus God! What do I have?

Don Benito was calm, my uncle Ramon, submissive always looked at saving a respectful silence,
the idea of ??a stroke he had crossed the mind, but, either by fear, and for restraint, kept
well to advise his wife moderation, rest and above all, the laxative that the doctor known
as Brown had established treatment many years ago. For him, the moderation of the fierce nature
of his consort was concerned a few pounds of salt from England, a drug that, given his faith
in its effects, would have saved a thousand disappointments, reestablishing a glimpse of the
tranquility of home.

Moments after the altercation, Aunt Medea had been attacked suddenly abundant evacuation of blood
from the nose, but in a paroxysm of his anger, trembling nervously of anger, had been content
with loud sucking in abundance and lots of water salt right arm tightly tied or put in the
back of his head impellers lustful proverbial fat key therapeutic
counseling popular.

From time to time he ran his hands through my eyes, in which he said felt an enormous weight;
was compressed temples, where pounding your arteries or wet with water glass that freckled face
and flat, under which burned a volcano of hatred and future projects of revenge. Was irrascible,
irritable, whooping like a wounded beast, the chair shivering under
the weight of her thighs and her husband plethoric shaken again timidly
caressing the treatment favorite memory of Dr. Brown.

- Not worth
all the annoyance they have given me, old caches bitches! - Exclaimed
with a voice coughed and a little shrill.

My uncle Don Benito and I we continued our program of abstention immutable force, silent and reverent,
respectful eating with that moderation which is confused with hunger modestly disguised as an appetite
discreet. There was no sound but the rustling rabid jaws tiburonianas My Aunt Medea, with some evil
pleasure, yet full of delight, he imagined crush the skull of one of its rivals in the bread coscorron
innocent gnawing their molars and shy and almost silent chewing of those feared likely to hurt the
ears Mrs.

Don Benito tried, however vainly, to open topics of conversation, but it was in vain, the attempt
would not start. My Aunt Medea returned to his imprecations, threw a challenge furious rivals,
the apostrophe in a thousand ways and raising a clenched fist, I swear revenge as a witch possessed
by divine wrath.

We finished lunch and went to serve the coffee. My aunt took up positions, but when standing
up, he felt something strange, something terrible going through your
head, wanted to step and sank down on the pavement.

- Jesus will
protect him! - Uncle Ramon said, opening his eyes wide to see it fall,
- and we over the terrible palsy, and ran to help his consort who
had fallen senseless at the foot of the table, making a strange noise
with his mouth full of foam.

Don Benito and I had run at the same time to assist my aunt.

His appearance was truly frightening; had fallen struck by a violent rush of blood; was unconscious,
unresponsive, relaxed and completely immobilizes.

It was an inert mass, in which only the persistence of breathing and
heartbeat that we perceive, testified that life was not extinct yet.

My uncle cried out for a doctor, vinegar and mustard plasters, and while they are applied abundantly
in Cyclopean legs of the lady, Don Benito and I ran for all doctors
in the neighborhood.

The ladies of the neighborhood, some of which were from the family relationship, immediately
attended to learn of the despair of my uncle.

All of them continued poultices applications in the calves, in the neck, in the soles of the feet,
thighs and arms, cut off his clothes and placed in his bed.

Going down the stairs with Don Benito to fetch a doctor, we collided with Alexander Brown in the
same front door.

- What is it, child, what happens? the whole neighborhood is abuzz ... "The house is on fire
?...-- us he asked.

- On the contrary, I think it puts out the fire ... Your employer appears to have just burst -
answered Don Benito with the most perfect calm.

- Who?

"The tiger? ... !...-- Finally said the brown with the accent of
a man who vents.

We returned at once, we had gone two or three blocks and we only found five physicians who were provided
with great satisfaction to our appeal.

My aunt was getting worse by the minute. His breath was rattling and excruciating, to each breathing,
cheeks, deprived of strength, were left unmade passively after returned
to become lax and lazy.

- Smoke the pipe - one of the doctors said
in a low voice - this is very characteristic.

My uncle heard the remark and he imagined the doctor wondered if the
lady had the habit of smoking, it responded with great astonishment
at the audacity of the man:

- No, sir, how do you imagine a woman
of this class?

... or a pipe or anything - added allowing certain movements of unexpected
energy.

The doctors smiled slightly and continued to examine the sick.

One of them introduced a feather in the throat. My aunt, insensitive, showed no signs of feeling.
The doctor made an distaste.

- You must mudarle bed - added ...

- Ah! yes - my uncle said with a grimace forced to hide a deep sorrow, - poor thing known how
serious it is!

Another of the doctors came to the ears of my uncle and asked him
a question.

- Pfs!

... For many years, sir, from singles - said it left his lips wander melancholy smile - if
we have never had children, and you know that ... Dr. Brown told
me yet it was possible and that ...

- Ah, yes - the doctor concluded
that certainly was a history amagado pathological my uncle's family,
- yes, Dr. Brown was a great practical.

At this time they approached the other peers. Had completed its review and were to hold query.
Have little to say about the sick, such was his serious condition.

According to opinion unanimously, it was a cerebral hemorrhage in
its most terrible form.

Always continued breathing laborious, the pupils very extensive and insensitive to the action
of light, and liquids just drank, stayed in the throat causing painful
throes those that impress both.

This last symptom was fatal omen. My uncle was shocked: his wife was dying slowly with no
mention of recognizing when he approached his bed.

- Do you have
a high fever? - Dared to ask one of the doctors who came out first
the query.

- No, sir, no, on the contrary, its temperature is rather
low.

However, it is probable now begin to rise much, if, as unfortunately we fear, it ends badly.
Is in a coma - he said, trying to confuse my uncle with a confusing
technicality - is a so apoplectic cerebral hemorrhage paralyzed.

-
Jesus help me and encourages me!

Four diseases at once! Who refuses to so much!

And the poor man, making a supreme effort to express the most supreme emotion, his hand to
his eyes and pulling hair nervously.

Don Benito, who was next to the bed, looked extinguished with a coldness that colossus perfect.

My
uncle did not dare approach the edge of the bed, the doctors had separate insurance and the outcome.

-
Come, sir - my uncle said one of them ...

My uncle came trembling, and almost dragged reluctant to duty ... the approach back: the dying
had a terrible aspect: the face was bruised, the breathing was difficult
and cavernous.

- The priest! - Some of the bystanders shouted as
doctors leaving the room.

He went to bed a fat monk, dressed in bright colors, impassive as
a seal, fat as a pig, his face flattened by the stigma of gluttony
and carnal desires, thick mouth like a satyr, stupid eye, ear of bat,
red cheeks like a clown.

Opened between fat and fleshy hands a book whose pages illuminated a puppet with a candle, and
erupted on the body in barbarous Latin and some prayers nasal with the staggering irresponsibility
of a parrot.

After he retired a few steps from bed, made a gesture to my uncle
to come over; and at that moment, my Aunt Medea still glared at her
husband, opened his mouth, sputum a blood clot and over ...

As women
began to make preparations to dress, and I took Don Benito my uncle
in the room.

Was observed at the time the face of my old comrade, - the comic solemnity that strove to maintain
an air gave Mephistopheles.

My uncle looked at him without understanding it, but it was suspicious
enough to explain that Don Benito was not as desolate as the occasion
demanded it.

I was expecting the word mocking the old bachelor was immediate.

We enclose in my uncle's room, locked the doors and Don Benito, with a side of Easter, opening
arms cried:

- Don Ramon ... Press, man! - And sought to hug my uncle.

- Oh! Don Benito ... Misery!

- Misfortune? Do I represent you the hypocrite?

Celebrate you, friend, the largest anniversaries of his life ...

And
my uncle could not contain himself; got rid of Don Benito and running
to the bed, got into it and deposited on the soft feather pillow that
buried his face, a smile of deep, voluptuous joy, he could no longer
contain within itself.

At that moment knocked on the door, opened it, the profile of Alexander smiling leaning out
of the slit.

- What? - I said quietly and with more serious in the world.

- Oh! - He answered very slowly ...--¿ you the sad, too? - And put that black a satanic face when
I said those words.

- Go - go ...-- said.

- Yes, I'm ... To search the drawer!

At twelve o'clock, my aunt was placed in the coffin of rosewood that Alexander had brought. He
had closed his eyes and mouth, but always kept his face gesture threat that was characteristic,
and the Holy Christ, that squeezed mechanically between waxed livid hands and seemed like the
attitude of an armed sentry to doze the case of a surprise. The female mulaterío house and neighborhood,
had invaded the room: there were plenty around the coffin two or three who took turns kneeling mulatto
on.

Clear is that the room had been covered in an instant and merino crepe black in honor of its
illustrious owner.

The news of his death had spread through the city, and as their influence in large social, despite
the political disasters of the deceased party, was of long standing, the house was full the night
of the eminences of the past, dethroned by this.

The first whom I met in the room, was with Dr. Trevexo. I had aged and emaciated! His legs and
arms unhinged, not palpable to through clothing, but always the same, the great chatter, diffuse
and insulseces narrator, great display platitudes, doctrines taken
to instinct, principles incomplete, always an enemy books; devastated
by the phenomenal growth of libraries and issues: furious against
excessive diffusion of scientific works, consistent supporter, unchanged,
unmoved of journalism: always quoting his collection of liberty cap
and The Sword of Damocles the papers he wrote after the fall of Rosas.

Poor doctor Trevexo! How the man who had been the first twenty years earlier, was Today the last!
How was arrested at his peak no go! I had the effect of a of those old photographs from a family
album, to which one has to laugh involuntarily. While the political world had progressed between
us, and seasoned with serious reading: in the Age of Disraeli and Gladstone, Bismarck and Gambetta,
in the age of Taine and Lanfrey, Dr. Trevexo lived with his Creole newspaper clippings, with
all his fame of the past capital and all its sterile informality
present and future.

However, what is the virtue and consequence of supporters! His party still believed in him: he was
always great orator, the great diplomat, the great journalist, the great lawyer, the largest
Argentine parties.

My aunt's death had shocked Medea.

His great friend, she resolved all times, losing in two revolutions, ready to make a new one
to his suggestion, was dead the whole game the crying, it was an irreparable loss so irreparable
that the largest newspapers in South America, gave him a sense obituary, long as a sermon in
agony, with many choice phrases, which began recalling with much detail to the ancient Greek
and Roman mothers, made them cross the path of history in multiple combinations of people,
and ended with a eulogy of the virtues of the deceased and a special
congratulatory gentleness of his character.

In this appeal, all the Faubourg Saint Germain de Buenos Aires, was presented the next day.
How is praising the merits of Ms. Dona Medea Berriedale! I sympathized with the sad story
of my uncle! Which had experienced painful loss! Even Don Buenaventura had left their busy schedules
to attend the funeral of literature! Do not reward thirty years of bondage, mute, enthusiast,
admirer of all his exploits and misfortunes!

A burial shaft in Buenos Aires need not be described: the employer knows funeral tastes of the
big city, in which prevails the large village, the convoy has to do Street parade in Florida: there
is no street to go to the Recoleta, and if anyone get the idea to change the itinerary, it would
be difficult for the dead or dead being of the aristocracy, or especially of high politics,
protesting resurrected the variation of the route.

My aunt had been very religious, although recently the victim of a parent Piarist who had graciously
removed several thousand dollars, his fervor for the friars and puppets partners ran their political
enthusiasms: so that at his funeral attended all main parish clergy, most correct, and one delegation
from each Guild: Franciscans, Dominicans, etc., incorrect under the
terms of personal hygiene.

Among this crowd of black ravens and browns, not missing a tribune ultramontane pedantic adequacy
stuck, he sibilant and hollow, great literary mummy, filled with
Blair and Herman, Gongorism specimen of Spanish, who sat in the carriage
of mourning, as if they had nailed to a stake, he maintained his solemn
seriousness to it with the utter desolation that caused the death
of that old whose virtues were at the end couples with sincerity of
their religious beliefs. Leading the group was the same dignity as
we have seen beside the bier, with its carnival uniform and his imperturbable
face colorinches seal.

While the box deposited in the vault of the
family, I got lost on the streets of the cemetery.

Vain much pomp!

How
could there be measured, along with daubs of native marble works,
imbecility and human pride. There pompous tomb of a rancher ... many
miles of land, many cattle, hides and wool have been raised that mausoleum
which is neither that of Moreno, nor the Garcia, nor warriors, nor
of the great men of letters.

There the royal tomb of a miser, beyond
that of an idiot ... pump following them in death