 Aged furniture, tarnish, carpets and curtains would be fraying. The
owners appeared not to notice it. Above all, D. Pedro Quiñones showed negligence in this respect that
bordered on swagger. Neither the entreaties of his wife, nor the indirect that some daring, as Paco
Gomez, used to jokingly allowed, I decided never to call painters and upholsterers. It is guessed
that this decision was influenced by the disdain with which looked at the luxury displayed by
some Indians in the furnishings in their homes.

The lounge, which is up to the dimensions, was superb, spacious, very high ceiling, occupied all
the balconies in the street of St. Lucia, except for the cabinet. The old stalls, but not imitating
forms of remote centuries, as now used, was built in the past the taste of the time, and lined
with green velvet and worn. The carpet weaving discovered in several places. On the walls
hung some magnificent tapestries. This was the luxury of home. D. Pedro Quiñones had a collection
of great value. Once used to display them year, hanging from balconies on the Corpus for the
passage of the procession. It was reported that an Englishman they had offered him a million
pesetas. Also had some pictures former merit, so obscured by time, if a skilled hand did not
come soon restore, conclude disappear. The only new thing in the room had was the piano, purchased
three years ago, shortly after marrying his second wife D. Pedro.

The cabinet also large, with a balcony overlooking the street of St. Lucia and two of the garden,
scenery was worse yet. Large damask curtains, two oak cabinets without mirror silk-lined sofa,
some chairs of cowhide, a round table in the center and some chairs for the sofa, all tattered
and faded well. Around the central table and lighted by large oil lamp with green screen, were
three gentlemen playing ombre. The homeowner was one of them. Would have forty-six to forty
eight years old, for three he was entirely unable to move, as a result of a stroke that paralyzed
his legs. It was big, brown face and features strongly marked, strong, his hair and beard, whitening
and for many points, strong abundant, curly, black eyes and sunken look awesome. In his appearance
had an expression of pride and ferocity that even the friendly smile that welcomed the Earl of
Onís able to extinguish it completely. I was leaning more than sitting in a chair built purposely
to facilitate the movement of the trunk and arms, and leaning to the side table so that it
was possible to play and have your legs extended. Although the fire burned some logs of wood,
wrapped with a gray Talma closed his neck snap gold. Embroidered on her side of the heart, there
was a large red cross of the Order of Calatrava. Mr. Quinones rarely dispensed this Talma, which
made her look a little beat and theatrical.

He had always been extravagant in dress.

His pride led him to find a way to distinguish the vulgar. On several occasions he saw closed coat, hat
and clogs: spent long hair, like a knight of the seventeenth century; We often wore velvet
dress or corduroy riding boots, wearing boots when no one remembered them, and large necks shirt turned
on the vest, imitating the old flange. Never was man more precious of nobility or more effort to
revive the prestige and privileges they enjoyed it in past centuries. The crowd murmured their extravagances
and many laughed at them, because Lancia is a town where there are many humorous spirits, but as
always happens, This hubris was over fierce prevailed. Those who mocked more gracefully of the oddities
of Don Pedro were the most submissive and removed his hat performance so I saw half a league.

He
had lived at the court some time during his youth, but it did not take root. He was a gentleman
with exercise and enjoyment of the benefits and privileges that his wealth and birth granted it,
but not enough to satisfy her heart swelled with pride.

The strange amalgam of the aristocracy of blood money to hurt him and irritated him. Respect to
granted to politicians and that he was obliged to pay taxes because of their by reddened with anger.
A son of nowhere, a ragamuffins pass him with head up, giving him a look indifferent or contemptuous!
To him, a direct descendant Sovereign of the counts of Castile! Not to suffer and the love
he professed for Lancia resigned employment and came to live again churrigueresco palace where
we are. Pride, or perchance his eccentric character, he did commit, at this period of his
life mayorazgo bachelor thousand extravagances and absurdities that amazed and were the delight
of the city until they become accustomed. D. Peter did not go out into the street never unaccompanied
by his servant or a steward, uncouth man, wearing the peasant costume of the country, ie short
pants with wool socks, flannel jacket and slouch hat green stripe. And not only Manin was dating (by
that name was universally known), but led him to theater. Was to see both a main stage, he,
rigid, right, casting her eyes distracted the room, the servant, with the palms of your hands
on the railing and beard on hands to the astonished eyes on the stage, dropping barbarian raucous
laughter, yawning, scratching his neck and screaming in the middle of silence. Came to him in
cafes and even took him to dances. Manin became an institution in a short time. D. Peter barely
deigned to speak to the wealthiest people of Lancia, held talk roll with him and admitted being
contradicted in the rough and rude manner that he could only.

- Manin, man, you're bothering to repair these ladies - told him maybe being found both at any
store.

- Well, well, because if they are to taste, bring home a mattress
and lie down - responded the barbarian aloud.

D. Peter bit his lip to hold the cloth, because it made such extreme grace rudeness and brutality.

If I entered a cafe, Manin paneled downed red wine as he used to drink sparingly a glass of muscat.
But always ordered a bottle and pay, although leave almost full.

Showing some surprise by this prodigality an apothecary of the population to who ever deigned
to speak, replied with a cold arrogance

- Pay a bottle, because it seems unseemly D. Pedro Quiñones de León
ask for a drink any c. .. inks political government offices.

Also caused surprise in the city that the clerics greet them kiss in the street hand, imitating
the custom of the nobles in other centuries. This respect was not only a distinguish themselves
and prove through his high rank, like everything else. Because the chaplain at his service,
even kissed her hand in public, he was treated as a domestic in private. He kept much smaller
than that Manin. But what really stunned the public and offered to any number of comments and
chufletas was the that D. Pedro did, shortly after arriving in Madrid, in a religious ceremony.
Presented in the church with a white uniform and gold braid studded with beads, which should be
to Grandee of Ronda. By the time of the consecration at Mass, advanced with solemn step until
the middle of the temple, which was free of people, drew his sword and began wield on against the
four cardinal points, giving furious lunges and Claymore air. The women were frightened, the
children ran, the majority of men thought it was a fit of madness. Only the more astute or scholars
understood that it was in a symbolic ceremony and that those air Claymore Don Pedro was meant
resolved, as professed gentleman who was a military order to fight all enemies of faith in any
place in the world. The only small newspaper that was published then Lancia every Sunday (today
there are eleven, six and five weekly newspapers) gave him a press release that, with no little
grace, made fun of him. However, such public ridicule private, as noted above, could not amenguar
the prestige of the illustrious hero enjoyed in the city. Whoever believes in good faith over
the beings around him, has far in advance so that they will be humiliated. In addition, D.
Peter, despite his ridiculous, was a cultured man, fond of literature and pushes a poet. From time
to time, and betrothal at any particular country or for the royal family, wrote a few tenths
or triplets in a classic style, a little Gongora. Although some people tried to persuade it's
published, it never could kill it. So sincere he professed disdain for all This reflects the
democratic movement of our era and especially to newspapers, would rather have them manuscripts,
known only to a few friends. Passed also by courageous man. In Madrid I had some duels and be
stopped Lancia one between him and a progressive political leader sent to this province, by intercession
of the bishop and cathedral chapter.

When you reach forty, more or less, married an aristocratic lady, too, that Sarrió inhabited. His wife
died a year in childbirth. Three years later he Amalia married again, lady Valencia something
akin to it. Barely knew.

D. Peter had seen in Valencia when she was fourteen. Marriage is pactose made ten years later
by letter, before change of portraits. It was sure that the will of the bride had been forced, and
even stated that for some months had refused to share the thalamus with her husband. Further.
Lancia was counted in with a wealth of details of the trip on the advice of a canon was Don
Pedro with his wife to inspire confidence and shorten the path between the incidents and the
descomodidad posed, the moral and material distance between them. Fulfilled the prophecies of
beating chapter and made all the ends of marriage, the sky would not bless yet. Shortly after
D. Peter experienced the terrible stroke that paralyzed half body down, and since then, no business
terms for the blessing, even though Providence was animated and best wishes.

- We need a room - said warmly pressing the hand of the count.

- Yes, yes, to see if it changes the fate ... Moro is leading us boldly money - said a round-faced
old man, fresh, clean-shaven, white hair and light eyes and tender.

Had Galician accent.

Saleta and was called the hearing judge and evening regular Quinones's house.

- Not so, Mr. Saleta, not so much! Only got two hundred points. Missing three hundred to get
even of what I lost yesterday - said the aforementioned, I was a
young man open and friendly face.

- Why have not called you to Manin?
- Asked glancing Count smiling the famous butler, who, with his short
pants, spiked shoes and green cloth jacket, dozing in an armchair.

The eyes of the three turned to him.

- For Manin is a brute who can not play more than the brisca - said
D. Peter laughed.

- And the tute - said the laborer, stretching roughly,
opening a mouth of a fourth.

- Well, the tute.

- And the mountain.

-
Well, man, and the mountain too.

And they began to play without further notice of him.

But after a while he said again:

- And to stop.

- When you stop
too? - Mockingly asked the Count de Onis.

- Yes, sir, and at seven-thirty.

-
Go!

Go! - Said it casually, opening the fan of cards and examining carefully.

And

they kept playing hard, absorbed and silent.

The butler stopped again, saying

- And the julep.

- Well, Manin, shut up! ... Do not be silly - he cried bitterly D. Pedro.

- Manjadero! Manjadero! - Villager muttered crossly as manjaderos .-- There are others, but as
they have money no one can call him.

And again dropped their formidable back in his chair, stretched his legs and closed his eyes for
snoring.

The players looked up at Don Pedro with surprise and concern.

This angry nailed in Butler, but seeing him so quiet in that position, suddenly changed, and hoisting
shoulders and turning her eyes again to the letters, he said, smiling, cheerful:

- What a man! It's a real Swabian!

- High, Mr. Quiñones, stop! - Saleta said .-- The Swabians have camped
only in Galicia.

You are only Cantabria ... Indeed I should know well that ...

- Sure! Ze Uzté zabe it too! - So said an old gentleman, although it would of fifty, which
came at the time. D. Enrique Valero, judge of the Court too, man pleasant demeanor, thin, expressive
face, though extremely faded for life glad he had led.

As denounced his accent, the most closed and can ceceoso heard, was Andalusian province of Malaga.

-
Do not know everything, my friend Valero - Saleta calmly replied,
- but I know well the story of my country and the specific references
to my family.

- What is about family zu Zuev ezo what, mate?

- Because
my family is descended from one of the most leading warlords who entered
the Pontevedra province where the outbreak, as evidenced by several
documents that are preserved on file in my home.

The players exchanged a cheerful look of intelligence with Valero.

- Aha - said it between happy and angry .-- Now that the friend Zaleta
rezulta ez a Zuev like a cathedral .-- Who had Penza, so rebajuelo
and so tiny!

- Yes, sir - he went the other, as if he had not heard,
speaking slowly and firmly .-- The leader who gave birth to our family
was called Rechila.

Man apparently was fierce and bloodthirsty. Great conqueror, extended his rule a lot, and I even
appeared to reach in his travels to Extremadura.

One day, when I was a child, was found buried his crown between the foundations of the old chapel
of our house ...

- But, man! But man! - Valero said staring at him with a comical indignation she loosened the
others laugh.

Saleta continued unperturbed describing the discovery, shape, weight,
each ornaments did not forget a detail.

And Valero while not looking away from him, shaking his head with growing irritation.

Every night was the same. The blatant lie caused his colleague in the magistrate Andalusian sometimes
feigned outrage, some real, always glad for the company. Was so unusual that a bullying Galician dared
exaggerated and liar in front of an Andalusian it, wounded in his pride and the privileges of his
country, came at times to be angry, Saleta was wondering whether a fool or by those who had listened
to him. In fact the judge Pontevedra lie with so little grace and yet so firmly, that was a
matter of wonder if it would be an arrant rogue impatient delighted
in his friends.

- Did you say that eze antepazao uzté zuyo has Come
in to Eztremadura? - Finally asked Valero decided tone.

- Yes, sir.

-
Pue I find, compare, which eztá uzté equivocao because zeno Renchila
eze ...

- Rechila.

- Well, eze Rechila corn has gone there has ran
Become the province of Malaga, but there will Zalía started to find
a vandal who was head of one of miz azcendiente that ze I remember
calling zi ... ezpere a bit ... ze called Matalaoza.

May well ezte Matalaoza, uncle was a mu mu bragao and bland, completely defeated him, made
him and he had prizionero Become a waterwheel pulling that ze died.

Conzervan ze yet in any game basements peazo the typewriter.

D. Peter, James Moore and the Count de Onis had suspended play and laugh without any shawl.

-
No way. Rechila is not out of Merida, who has won after a short siege - told Saleta no less
or more disturbed.

- Uzté Dispenza, friend, in the file of my game is documentoz which show that Zeno Renchila has
come a little something for the province and Malaga, and that Zeno
Matalaoza, my grandfather, by the line of mother or wanted deharle
Dioz pa ma followed later.

- Excuse me, friend Valero, I think you
are wrong.

That should Rechila be different. Among the Swabians have been several Rechila ...

- Zeno No, no ... The derrotao Rechila which my grandfather was the
antepazao of uzté ... Zegura Eztoy ... Pontevedra province ... Ze
enzeguidita knew him by the accent.

And very seriously affected by uttering these words.

The joy of the players was becoming higher. Saleta, accustomed to the ridicule of his colleague,
not piqued or lost a point its irritating phlegm.

The shamelessness of this man to lie and then hold their lies was unprecedented.

When he saw the futility of further disputing, attended the game again. Others did the same,
although from time to time escaped them flow through your nose laughing.

Jaime Moro kept winning.

And he was cheerful and talkative, discussing each of the plays neatly. He was a handsome young
black beard trimmed, regular features, almond eyes free expression
and soft, rosy complexion.

His father, who was the diocesan administrator in that province, died last year, leaving a regular
farm, seventy or eighty thousand dollars, according to well aware. This capital Lancia made him
a real potentate. I must not say that was the target of all the shots of girls of marriageable
age, his ideal, the American dream. Moro seemed little inclined to women. Infinitely loved Mercury
than Venus. His love of gambling, all kinds of games, was so excessive that it could said that
his entire life was devoted to her, I was born to play. He lived alone, with housekeeper, valet
and cook. Rose up from 10:00 to 11:00, and after groom went to the cafe of Ms Romana, which was tasty
aware company that of all the stories that ran through the population. So casting aside this
task it would get in the back dark, oily, greasy, with the smell of puff pastry down, and sitting
to a corresponding table in all the decorations of the chamber, he began to play the Cup Jerez
and pastries dominoes with his close friend D. Baltasar Reinoso, one of many owners four or five
thousand pesetas income residing in Lancia. At two to eat. At three Commercial Circle to start
with three of the Indians, who formed the nucleus of that Recreation Society, the classic steel
sheet, which is usually stretched to five.