 Leg. 3.

On what is in the relationship even in the clothes of grant given by the House .-- As you think, etc
.-- Lord: On the relationship even V. Magd. will use ordinary see the dresses and extraordinary
given every year for his house, and have seemed many in number, that might excuse some and
reduced others to less value, say so in each I offered to having
seen His Majesty. resolved as shall be most of his Royal service.

A chamber musicians began to give them clothes price of 100 ducats, and the general reformation
was made in Baxo them all tenth, were 90, and in 1622 fell to 400 reais, running in this way until
1626, which query again to send Duke V. Magd. they continue the same
.-- Methinks 90 ducats that they would henceforth give 80 ducats,
which is the respect that others are moderate.

D. dress Musician Henry Butler, who according to the relationship mounts 200 ducats, I think could
be trousers and velvet doublet carved smooth as you choose, cloak
of cloth, doublet of white satin, silk stockings, suspenders, hat
and sword ordinary black gold cuffs, and that the price of the bar
can not exceed 120 reais.

When he took the seat with Bat.e Jovenardi, adjusted to him that he
had to make a dress price of 100 ducats, methinks that you should
save your seat, not being V. Magd. served to send something else.

The clothes of the barbers and Diego Velázquez could be reduced to
80 ducats, and those of the servants of the closet at 70 ducats.

A toilet young men were henceforth to be dressed at 60 ducats.

Those of the shoemakers, who are 54, I think that will happen as they are.

The squires of the walk could be put at 50 each.

The sweepers are given 45 ducats dresses, it seems that they could continue well; and so the gardeners
in the garden of the Emperor and the Prioress, but could use V. Magd.
to send that to the gardeners to come in, instead of which they are
now, they reform.

The dress of 72 ducats given to Thomas Pinto, having been tutor to
D. Antonio, the dwarf English, I think you could reform course.

Which gives the apparatus, although it is the oldest, I think that
it is reduced to 80 ducats, and at first he enters reform.

Cold dresses and her partner, who are responsible for the greyhounds, it seems to me now reduced
them to 80 ducats each, and the first to enter were reformed by this
part, and were seen by the livery stable mixture.

Dona Beatriz de Vargas you may continue to be V. Magd. served, as
now are given, because I understand your need is great and this is
his main livelihood.

A jug would seem to be given a gown to suit velvet, another ruff and a taffeta, eight shirts and other
clothing tight white person in this respect, but all in action and thereby certify the clerk
of House, who joined this money, it can deliver the wardrobe.

A Pumpkin is you might get the dresses ordered by the Head Waiter
and linen that would need to respect eight shirts, and the rest be
reformed, and the same done with D. Diego de Aedo (El Primo), but
all in degree, as stated above.

A dwarf Lezcano and others could give them the clothes they ordered by the Head Waiter or Sommelier,
tailored to their bodies.

A Andres Perez has been given some years now a dress, as they say in the relationship, but
I think that today this is normal or has been put in the book. And when V. Magd. would be
served to send him to any means, cassock, cloak and breeches of cloth,
jacket of olandilla or camuzas, silk stockings, suspenders and two
shirts, and all must be taken as their bodies, and present the clerk
of House, to certify what needs to be timely.

A D. Juan de Austria, Bañuelos Ochoa, I think they will continue as
hitherto has done, without having something fixed.

A D. Christopher Velazquez seems to me you could reform the dress has been hitherto times given.

A
blind Cristobal will available to the Waiter or Sommelier, but like Andresillo when he has to give.

A
Pablo de Valladolid, if you command him to give a dress may be of
velvet or cloth, those qualities above.

And so to the Baptist Chess, and in this case is has to be done effectively and brought to
an and not go as far.

Also sometimes tends to Nicholas Panela, clothing of quality contained in relationship, and this
seems to me the same thing as a Baptist, if that command him to anyone, and that he actually put.

And
the bodies of doublets of these dresses could be from henceforth of Holland raw fustian, canvas
or camuza, as they will.

When V. Magd. I command to any gown Martínez Alonso, who does not have if not in this case, I
think that may be of velvet or cloth of the qualities mentioned above,
and also swords, which price must not exceed 120 reais, as stated
above.

And it would seem that they be brought back in place of those who now have dresses of grant
in order of V. Magd., Come without them, and this expense is renovated later.

Ms Angeles In Toledo, Turkish nation, and mother and children have been given by order of Your
Majesty. dresses that says the relationship: it seems to me that the husband and children Boys are
dressed in cloth den, and she could give him velvet or satin ruff,
and two little girls about habitillos of anything according to his
age and because the two already have grown children and willingness
to serve, I judge it would be appropriate where command them to play
V. Magd. do a favor to go with more vigor.

That is, Lord, how am I being offered because of the clothes given by the Chamber and how they
could run ahead. V. Magd. everything you send in more out of your royal service.

The chamber 15, Sept. / 1637.

Manda King is paid to Velázquez arrears of its assets.

By Diego Velazquez has represented me for over two years serving in the Palacio works, provided
that in this time has paid nothing of the salary that I have commanded noted, and because
my desire is to have timely relief to what would have, I charge you to satisfy yourselves ready for
what appear or be due in and dispongáis in the pay of the front, you save the place and time that
you play. (Rúbrica.) - (Year 1645).

Diego Velázquez arrived here at 21, and without wasting time I tried to see all the pictures
we allowed to be in my house, that modesty is a quality here that many will scruple, but will
try to skill that you do not get pregnant, and wanting to aim at Modena (having received reports
that might find something very CONSCIOUS), I will give letters to facilitate the introduction
and in every office will attend as of November 22 VM sends me, as God save individual Catholic
Christianity needs. Venice and April 24, 1649 .-- The Marquis de la Fuente.

Witness 84. In the town of Madrid, to 23 days of December 1658 years for this information receive
a witness to the degree Alonso Cano, prebendary of the Holy Church of Granada and it's natural,
he swore in verb priestess of truth and secrecy, and asked the wording of both, said, "He knows
Diego Velázquez, pretender, forty-four years now and that is from the city of Seville, knew
his parents, who called Juan Rodriguez of Silwan and Mrs. Jeronimo Velazquez, natives of that
city, met the grandfather father, called Diego Rodríguez de Siluo, natural that he heard the
city have been Porto, in the kingdom of Portugal, and never met her paternal grandmother,
but has news of her, and was called Dona Maria Rodriguez, and same; natural that city of Oporto;
of who know that they were father and grandfather of the suitor, because those who knew the was
treated as parents and children, and those who heard him knew no certain thing to say they
were, which are known and were incurred for legitimate marriage had not heard anything to the
contrary, and old Christians, freed of bad race and mixture of Jewish, Moorish or again become,
without having heard none of them or their ancestors were penitents
by the Holy Office of the Inquisition in public or in secret by some
of the contents crime in question or by others.

And also said that the time that he met in the city of Sevilla, where
he attended from fourteen years, was and saw the noble noblemen have
the blood, as usual and out of Spain and Portugal, and were estimated
keeping the exemptions that are usually stored at the other noblemen,
and carrying case with gloss of noble men, without having that office
by the parent or vile, low, or mechanical.

Y as the suitor, said the same .-- and cross-examination by the office of painter said that
around the time it has met or known before, nor has he heard that he has had for office, nor
had store, or sideboard, or sold paintings has executed only for pleasure and obedience of his
Majesty, to adorn the royal palace, where he has honorable trades as Usher is that of wholesale
and valet, and this is the truth by the oath has done. Leyósele his statement, rectificose in
it and signed it. Not touch the general said, and is of age of fifty-eight years little more
or less .-- .-- Fernando Alonso Cano's Ant Diego Lozano Salcedo and Villamejor .--.

Statement by Juan Carreño de Miranda on the same information.

Who knows the claimant had nearly thirty-four, who are the wine makes
witness to this court.

Commonly called and is called the Seville, which is noble hidalgo,
....., etc. and knows that going a day last year, 1654 or 55 at the
Palace to look for the suitor, up the stairs of the cube that comes
to gallery office, he felt someone coming behind the witness, and
admitted that he was a gentleman of the Order of Calatrava, who insisted
upon the forward pass, and said no, of course I went to see Diego
Velázquez, tell him that his cousin D. Silva Morejón guy was waiting.

That paintings did not sell itself or a third person, before he remembers a portrait of Mr.
Cardinal Borja, being the Archbishop of Toledo, who asked Diego Velazquez did, which, llevándosele,
would not take any money for him, and sent the Cardinal a hairdresser very rich and some silver jewelry
in return.

Francisco Zurbarán statement on the same information.

Zurbarán Francisco Salazar, a native of Fuente de Cantos in Extremadura,
a resident of Sevilla, living in Madrid since June 1658, and said
he has known for forty years, and he met his parents, who were very
prominent people, that the family had been family Velázquez of the
Inquisition, that parents, who knew, saw always treated with great
luster and estimating and so heard the grandparents had not store
or carry on the trade of painter rather than SM, and if there was
anything to the contrary I knew you for many years who knows the claimant
and her parents.

Declaration of Don Gaspar de Fuensalida on the same information.

Who knows how long ago came to Madrid ..... That has always been known to view Palace SM greatest
painter named, nor has there been in Europe, and they confessed Rubens a great painter who came
to this court ..... That witness has seen this painting in the Palace SM has sent, and to
present Spain as it has done to other princes of Europe; and knows that he has sent three times
to Italy, like Venice, Rome, Florence and other parts where he has
been very friendly with the SS.

PP. Urban VIII and Innocent X, holding him at all these provinces
by the model of painting, drawing portraits, etc ..... And in the
days he has done has always been to bring originals of your hand and
painters and sculptors old ..... That the claimant is who finished
and perfected the Pantheon of the Escorial.

[Image: IMPERIAL MUSEUM VIENNA

THE HAPPY PRINCE PHILIP

FRAME. Braun, Clement & C ª]

Counter Instance palace the King on claims of Velasquez.

Lord Diego de Silva Velazquez, Usher de Palacio, said that of the ordinary of his office deviendo is
this a whole year already provides real and seventy thousand more will be deve year of fifty-three
thirty thousand, and the officers hand sweepers and their trade-dependent not work or give a
message, and what more is there is no real wood to pay for fireplaces
the quarto of MS that is in danger of a major failure.

VM begs you send ducats give relief on behalf of their routine as soon as he has his master House.

It also represents a VM that is the hosting of an ambassador of France distributed Alajar the
in the various trades, carrying Upholstery chairs, and windows to ammunition. VM begs devuelban
send it to the office of the furred where they play and this report be sent senior officers
of the house.

Having been in the Bureo of 17 this month, a memorial of Diego de Silva Velazquez, Usher Palace,
requesting relief ducats on behalf of their regular, as soon as that
tubiese the master of the house, it was agreed (on this) that the
said Diego Velázquez adjust its accounts and the Comptroller and Master
of the House to adjust the money you have given relationship and bring
it from serving the office, and regular accounts Velázquez and that
will give him the ten thousand reais says the master of the house
is ready for this office.

I notice that a VM so that it touches you, you have the aforementioned performance Bureo agreement.
God save your Majesty many years as I wish. Madrid, November 19, 1659 years .-- .-- Lord Gaspar Fuensalida
Controller.

Sir, I shall like this to find V. m. with good health and also that my desseo Dona Maria. Mr I came
to this Court on Saturday morning June 26 tired of walking working night and day, but with
health, and thank God I found my home with her. S. m. came the same day the Queen came out to
welcome House of Field and from there went to n. ª S. ª de Atocha. The queen is very cute and
Prince Sr No. Last Wednesday was bulls in the main square, but no knights, that it was a simple
party and we remember the Valladolid.

V. m. notify me of your health and that of my lady Mary, and they
send me serve him, I always have very Suio; a friend Thomas V. Peña
m. from me many messages, which as Went io bine me so busy and so
fast I could not see.

Over here no ay thing that can abis V. m., but that God will desseo
g.de many years.

Jullie Md 3, 1660.

d. V. m., qsmb, Diego de Silva Velazquez

Mr Diego Valentín Díaz.

Velazquez's death certificates and Dona Juana Pacheco, his wife.

Starting Aug. 7 .-- In a thousand and six hundred and sixty died in the parish of San Juan D. Bautista
de Madrid Diego Velázquez, Knight of the Order of Santiago and chamberlain of S. M. Received the Holy
Sacraments, and be able to test left to Dona Juana Pacheco, his wife, and D. Gaspar de Fuensalida,
and everyone in solidum, to ..... SM clerk, who attends .... Enterrose in the vault of the
church, and gave a burial cloth, grave 3,200. Granted able to test before ..... Escribano .....

Memory
of what was found in the room of the Prince in death of Diego Velázquez.

In Hall, the Prince quarto no. gentleman (who is in heaven), to August
10 of 1600 and sixties, Mr. Don Francisco de Contreras y Rojas, chamberlain
of the Palace, Order your Mg.d Mr King opened our piece of the gallery
dho. quarto, and in the presence D. Gaspar de Fuensalida, GREFi of
the King our Lord and probate Diego de Silva Velazquez was chamberlain
of the Palace, being also present Juan Baptista de Maco son-dho.

Diego Velázquez, recognized the roles that were found Quentar of Furrer, alegajados and loose,
and others who auía of particular works, And when they were left
In the same piece until he is taken to be order to deliver.

SM Alajar

Vna found himself statue or medal, bronze half-length, Mr Rey Don Felipe second, a triangular
base with three eagles.

Vn XPTO made of clay, with two angels is the Descent from the Cross.

Fourteen frames hung with gilt bronze, formed for every two bugs.

VNA based paint [98] with different cattle: it has two rods and three
fourths in length, and two high-rods, more or less.

Vn painting of St. Joseph of Riuera Seuastian, two rods and two thirds
in length, and two varas high.

Vn quadro of the fee, by Titian, two rods and a half long and two
high.

Two square equal, Josef of Riuera of Job and San Geronimo, two little
long rods or less.

Vn quadro Seuastian St., with its gilded frame, three-fourths high.

Vn Portrait of the King of France who today is [99], medium body,
with its gilded frame.

Vn quadro on wood, three-fourths of high and cheaper, and quarta-laying,
painting nra. lady the child and some saints.

Vna cabeça of a man, basin of wax.

Two wooden crates with paper mills around the Villa de Madrid.

Vn cupiditas marble on a pillow.

Vn Portrait of Infanta S.ra vngría Reyna.

Euan six frames green, wavy, to long rod and tertiary.

Two other gold frames, small.

Vna mahogany base and Euan.

Eight feet of mistake of andirons, a snake.

Vna bronze of Don Juan de Austria, medium body, black stone base vna.

Vn vna Relox of light with our lady stuck in a garland of flowers.

Medium firm no feet, porphyry, octagonal.

In the tower Camarinete corresponding to oratory, Alloa:

Vn Descent
from the Cross, bronze with its base of Euan, Euan and cross with
the inscription.

Vn Relicatorio of christal advertise with gold and enamel, tucked
in a velvet box acculturation.

Greek Portrait Vn [100], a caueça a cleric.

Un portrait of Greek, half body, vna wife.

Another of the same, vn old, old.

Caueça vna a veronica in a sauana.

Two cravings long view, with
ivory cauos their cases crimson.

Vna box with a wax fruit.

Three
quadrilles ochauados small, with gold cigarette packs.

Three cravings
long view, both on parchment, and the other red with ivory ends.

Bada
Vn horn with a silver little feet.

Vn locket with two silver angel
on a pedestal of ebony with boxing where vn quadrille is carved the
Massacre of the Innocents.

Vn frame of a mirror, broken.

Vn model
of Church, as Cruz, wood.

He went into a piece, it was the SA library
and found, number of tables tables (Sic) waste boxes.

In another
small traffic as you enter the gallery to the right, is different
allaron frames and racks and tables, all minor, and with this a black
frame mirror no moon.

But two balls are allaron aobadas bronze with
cords.

Two bars big mistake, one more than another.

Vn map overwhelmed.

In
vn ark allaron tasseled cords that came from Italy, with mirrors EMBI
Count of Castrillo.

Vn large gilt frame.

Pasadismo Tragaronse the
fourth vna vna sheet of high-, seventh S.to of the order of St. Francis
another sheet of Salb, a fourth high.

Another sheet on vellum, Isauel
S.ta visitation.

Pastorbonus Vn.

Vn Saluador on vellum vn hands
on world.

Vn Francisco XAUI in lamina.

Vna relixiosa of the order
of St Jago, in lamina.

The quale seven sheets, with black frames,
were in the Prince q.to.

Cubillo opened, one on the stairs leading
down to the Secretariat office, and it vn Allo coiled portrait of
the Queen mother of France.

Another portrait of Mr. emperor.

VNA
VNA ynglesa cabeça, Diego Velázquez.

Vn mirror half a yard high,
framed in ebony and ivory.

Vn caueça portrait of a king of France
as a child.

Vn Marquillo ebony, bara media.

Vna small bronze statue,
with a child and anchors on vn ebony pedestal.

Vna Mag.na painting,
which is coiled and has a child.

Two reasons of porphyry, a half
rod.

Three frames of ebony.

Two brass fittings lanterns, gold, without
BIDR.

Llau deferens without sauer where they are.

VNOs traces of
tricks.

Large lbro Vn to folio, building plants.

Two trim paint
two lions and a castle.

Vn vna caueça of child, marble