 

In a book written in Venetian dialect by the recorder Boschini, have copied some verses, where
is concerned, who, being Salvator Rosa in Rome, talking to Velazquez asked I thought of Raphael
of Urbino, to which he replied, "that he did not like .-- Well, here - answered Italian, do not think
so, and we'll give you the crown. " To which I replied Velázquez: - "Where is good and beautiful is in
Venice: I give first place to the brush Venetian and who carries the flag is Tiziano [62].
"

Velázquez reluctantly admitting that, after his first trip studied and copied Raphael, bluntly
declared that he did not like anything, as pointed out by one of writers who chronicle the event,
although he does not inspire great enthusiasm how he feels color, it would have to admire the
immaculate purity of drawing, composing and expertise all other excellences it was in his time,
and still is, regarded as one of the world's greatest artists. As misguided Bocherini not walk,
was to say that he was more pleased with Titian Velázquez, which is known, not because he deliberately imitated,
but because he saw that even works of poetry by giving more space, also sought to reflect life with
powerful intensity.

The contemplation of the wonderful ancient and modern works gathered in Rome, dealing with Distinguished
artists, negotiations and proceedings followed to bring to Spain fresco and purchase the paintings
that Philip IV had been charged, were ample reasons to Velazquez was in the city of the Popes occupied
much to his taste, but the King was beginning to get impatient, having sent for him, for the
traces, which it repeatedly without the artist hasten to obey. So it seems that eager to visit
Paris, called passport return to France. SM would not have it, and to avoid the delay wrote
the following letter, which shows very clearly know the quiet Andalusian Seville immortal. Said
Philip IV and his ambassador in Rome, the Duke of Infantry:

"I saw
your letter of November 6 last year, when I realize what was going
Velázquez at work, as his care, and they know his phlegm, it is well
that ye not execute the arrest in that court, but later the conclusion
of the work and partencia far as possible, and so that by late May
or early June can make your passage to these realms, as it is high
if it sent orders arrangement dello's work, and so what you order,
and that in order to this we asistáis far as possible, that for ease
dello shipping to send the Count of Onate, to assist you with the
money has stopped sending him, as it may need, because you have no
excuse or pretext be obliged to defer, and because together we have
commanded that I bring to this court Peter of Cortona, painter of
the fresco, and to adjust the way it had to be, draws upon our authority.

We also request that knowing the state has settled who comes to serve me, because I also send
a command to the Count of Oñate attend so that this as necessary, which take effect solicitéis,
lack of people in here of his ministry, and that either have to make your journey by sea, you
are offered also the way in which they make their passage, because shipping to send Velázquez
not do it for land, so it could be stopped, and more with its natural, and so agree with this
budget is understood, I have commissioned you to have your partencia, and in order to it must
find in you the assistance that is necessary for compliance, as I promise of the attention with
which you act on what runs through your care. Madrid, February 1650. "[63].

Palomino said that "compliance with the timeliness with which he always obeyed the orders of His
Majesty, and even fought against large storms reached the port of Barcelona for the month of
June, 1651 ', from which it follows that even took sixteen months to return to Spain.

The impatience with which the King hoped would subside from fixed to see the acquisitions during
the journey had made on his own, as well as many molds or female, as then was said to empty classical
statues, paintings brought some outstanding merit: the beautiful picture of Venus and Adonis [64],
Paul Veronese, and purification of the virgins Midianites [65], the composition and state clearly
be oval for a roof, and the sketch Paradise [66], implemented with the same purpose and intended
for hall of the Great Council of Venice, both works of Tintoretto. Only these paintings have
chosen the purest taste test the while predilection for the painters
of that republic.

The following year the space vacated palace chamberlain, sought by
several suitors favored by different characters that made up the Bure
the expressing Velázquez also requested in his memorial to the King
"who has many years dealing with the ornament and composure VM room
with care and skill that a VM is satisfied, and then he begs VM thanks
for this occupation, it is so tight to his genius and occupation "[67].

The

King was chosen by Velázquez. The fact of having made this appointment after to return the
painter of Italy has led some to believe that it rewarded him spontaneously Felipe IV as well on
that occasion had served, but if this were true, no had taken eight months to award. In addition,
Velazquez asked the square. Among the applicants it included the head of the wax, more aid from
the furred and another employee of the royal house that could not count, so that the favor that
was the subject fell Velázquez to prefer others who, unable to demonstrate their craft artistic
taste had not of employment to serve as a painter who learned his powers recently joined admiring
the luxury and poise of Italian palaces.

[Image: Morritt COLLECTION

Venus at her Mirror]

The quartermaster in charge of forcing the author of "The jump into something as important and issue
orders to clean the courtyards and corridors, "remove a guard black that was close to the Queen's
Chamber ", to report on how far the powers jack-aid of the furred and toilet boys, and precede
the King when he went to Brown, El Escorial and Aranjuez. Velazquez, however, had to seek employment
judging 'Adjusted to his genius and occupation. "

To avoid interruption after the listing of the pictures that made our great painter, from for
the second time he returned from Italy until his last days, should address an issue now have
been concerned that Spanish scholars. I mean the memory called Velázquez.

Palomino

wrote that "in the year of 1656 sent to Mr SM Diego Velázquez would
lead to San Lorenzo Real forty-one original paintings, some of them
from the auction of the King of England Charles Stuart, the first
of that name, others brought Velázquez and others that gave SM D.
García de Avellaneda y Haro, Conde de Castrillo, who had been Viceroy
of Naples, and time was president of the Council of Castile, of which
Velazquez made a description and Memory, which gives notice of its
qualities, stories and authors, and the sites were placed, to manifest
a. SM, with such elegance and property described therein his erudition
and vast knowledge of art, because they are so excellent that he could
only achieve the deserved praise.

"

No doubt, as this, that Velázquez, to comply with the order of the King, made a written consigning
I thought of the paintings and the place where they were placed, so that there Memory and was prepared
to show it SM Palomino After one, even Cean Bermudez, mentioned the paper until a few years ago
scholar Adolfo de Castro presented to the Academy Spanish book which no one had said a word bibliophile,
printed, apparently with the exclusive purpose of preserving for
posterity the great painter that letter.

We tried nothing less than the memory of Velázquez published by his pupil Juan de Alfaro [68].
The Academy included content in his own memoirs [69] and Castro wrote for the occasion a prologue
in which he realized that the monk Jerome Fray Francisco de los Santos,
in Brief description of the San Lorenzo el Real, published in 1657,
had plagiarized from this report, Palomino pointed to numerous paragraphs,
where those paintings are described, followed critical considerations.

As some of these exceed discretion and artistic sense to those of that nature wrote the monk, and
as well taken in the same book, without admitting, pieces of the history of San Jerónimo, P. Sigüenza,
gave himself up for sure and certain that the gift de Castro to the Academy was Velázquez
memory loss. Just put Villamil Crusade in doubt, but artists and writers were enthusiastic about
the idea of ??tasting assessments and judgments as Velázquez in its jurisdiction. Even in
this resonated abroad rejoicing, and Baron Davillier luxuriously reprinted the book edited and translated
by Alfaro French, putting forward a Velazquez portrait etched by Fortuny [70].

Finally, Menéndez Pelayo in his admirable history of aesthetic ideas
in Spain, accepted also authenticity.

But then initiated a reverse flow. Justi, relying a thorough examination, denied that the report may
be de Velázquez, alleges, among other reasons, unique in that Alfaro, on the cover of their booklet,
says that Velazquez was a knight knight of Santiago in 1658, when it was not until the following
year, and also played positions in the palace, in the exercise had ceased to be quartermaster:
also states that judgments contained in that letter before are devout person's own artist. Beruete,
based primarily on this same consideration, argues that the findings in the statement are unworthy
of an artist the likes of Velázquez, who does not supposed author even inspiring those paragraphs.
Even the Menéndez Pelayo, after examining the copy given by Castro to the Academy, in view of the
guys that is printed and the lack of license, improper time thing it's supposed fact may be
suspected is an illusion of bibliomaniac similar to those attributed to the Earl of Saceda, which
seems made something with Nebrija Grammar and the Dialogues of Pedro Mejía.

As Palomino to write the life of Velázquez declares that it is the main thing John de Alfaro, and then
at the latter says that "left in his plundering some books and papers very courtiers, among them
some notes on the life of Velázquez, his teacher, "and as In addition, Fray Francisco de los
Santos was not a paragon of literary integrity, was excusable that is easily believed in the authenticity
of the booklet, but these considerations lose all his strength to think for delivery in the monastery
of pictures that were already known, Velázquez did not need to write a critical study: it was
enough for the occasion a list explain to the men what they received,
and which knew the King who had been their orders fulfilled.

The painted by Velazquez, from the turn of the second trip to Italy, already bears the personal
stamp, unmistakable, revealing the full development of his native powers, and the greatest of
experience, skill and expertise he acquired over the years.

In this period of his life are two bust portraits of Philip IV, one in the National Gallery London
in a black suit with gold embroidery, and Madrid [71] where the doublet, also black this orphan
ornaments, without further notice on it clearly highlight the white canvas smooth and stiff
the flange that separates the face. The King's fifty years, and perhaps even pass them: the face is
withered, flabby flesh, the eyes have lost their vividness: the face we saw in the great equestrian
portrait appears before the aged, tired, sad, as if it will mark not only over time, but the
bitter sediment in the soul had left him lost so much land and so many glories overshadowed: already
in the old sad and disappointed that hearing himself called the great
had to know it was a lie.

The cold blue eyes as incurable melancholy tempered by the weak, no energy to fuel the lymphatic
and flabby face where the jaw typical root out feels more pronounced than ever and full lips,
sexy, still very red, betray appetite which was the master of your body. That face, comically
serious, serious without Majesty is one of those pieces in which the painter, both in reality
made by copying, As for leaving logically deduce the imagination, touch the limits of what can
get the art. Velázquez did more than reproduce what he saw, he was not attributable purpose unrelated
to the ideas of his time, but noted with such insight, his eyes squinted so deep, that formed
a portrait process.

In no time the King must have had so long before, because if you notice that some lines are surprised
to suddenly hitting the first attempt, others seem corrected, found after halting trials, but
resulting in a set in which are mixed knowledge and ease, the innate
ability and the fruit of experience.

He has not missed, however, who cast doubt on the authenticity of this portrait: Armstrong
says that he looks like a painted copy, no doubt, the study of the teacher, and whosoever
you think to ask: by whom? Neither Mazo, or Rici or Carreño, were capable of such mastery.

A Queen Mariana of Austria Velázquez painted four times. First, in the canvas appears today
in the Louvre, [72] after one that is in the Imperial Gallery of Vienna [73] and then in both
of Madrid, [74] where he stands with rich black dress laced with silver, huge wig of long
curls, white feather headdress, brutally imprisoned body the gossip and the left hand a white
handkerchief, towering over the voluminous flared skirt and rigid. The face is small, skinny,
expressionless, Entec, expressionless gaze no smile on your face: all hands are beautiful, thin,
aristocratic. Do not see it SM foot that was disrespectful. Just between these two portraits
difference that the various dimensions of the curtain that serves as background to the figure
but the number 1079, seems to be made later, as if repetition of the first and executed more
disengage and promptly.

The Infanta Margarita María, first fruit of the marriage of Philip
IV with tiesísima lady who just mentioned, is portrayed by Velázquez
in Vienna to two or three years, with rich red suit and silver [75]
and six or seven in a suit very similar to has on the painting Las
Meninas: [76] in the Louvre [77] of four or five, dressed in white
with black lace, and in Frankfurt at six or seven of gray and black,
being in all these images because we do not have the apocryphal, one
of the most sympathetic Velázquez plotted.

His face is gordinfloncillo, the yellowish-blond hair, cold air washout and stopped, but it is nice,
almost pretty, because it has the charm of innocence and candor, the children she triumphs in the
type of the breed is so young that have not yet purchased packaging which disfigures the ladies
of his lineage.

The galas are adorned with this form ugly and only tolerated by the harmonies of color and
wonder of implementing squandered Velazquez to paint those tissue, tulle, ribbons, bows, jewels
and feathers, rustling, shine and curl as if the moving air.

[Image: LOUVRE MUSEUM

The Infanta Margarita

FRAME. Braun, Clement & C ª]

One of the most beautiful pictures that belong to this period of life of the teacher is the cataloged
at the Museum with the number 1,084, and offers the particularity of being made head so far below
the rest of the figure. Don Pedro de Madrazo explains this double aspect of the execution, saying that
the sitter is Dona Maria Teresa of Austria's daughter Felipe IV,
from his first marriage, that Velázquez had painted the head before
taking the second trip to Italy, according to his way then, leaving
broken and that later, back, finish it in his later years, when it
comes to marriage of the Infanta to Louis XIV of France.

"That explains why - he says - a portrait executed in general with such freedom and sobriety
so wise and so it belongs to last and best time of Velázquez, representing themselves as a child
of ten years, which was already about twenty, when the great artist painted of the wonderful
and unique way. "