 

Soon comes disgust, irritation and stomach pains, be alive, uncomfortable heat, sensations of cold,
especially at rest, pain passengers at different points discomfort with throbbing headache,
drowsiness painful agitation during sleep, vomiting food, partial sweats, sadness and moodiness,
pale skin, decaying forces.

If the use of iron continues, the symptoms are more pronounced, there is cough, tightness, heaviness,
intervals headaches, diarrhea, swelling of the face, bleeding with
excitement blood stagnation, large general weakness.

What particular offering this statement is that the pains, which are dislacerantes and lancinating
appear or worsen at night and sitting down. Also be felt by the night need to move the painful areas or affected
by cramps, fever phenomena are also more pronounced at night.

The outdoors annoying and produces a sort of faintness with drowsiness, and no need to lie.

Observed in the abusers of iron, the workers who will work in populations served by ferruginous
springs, chronic diseases and we want to analyze offer the following symptoms: weakness throughout
the body paralyzed or from somewhere shaking, violent pains in the limbs, blockage of the abdominal
viscera, lientería, chronic diarrhea, hemorrhoids, varicose veins, chronic vomiting, pulmonary tuberculosis,
hemoptysis, various bleeding, suppression of menses, abortion, infertility,
impotence, jaundice, chlorosis; cachectic states where the hematosis
seems abolished and destroyed vital heat.

Here, then, a nervous, well-characterized blood and chronic, is it not a box symptom such as cachexia
and manifest themselves in the iron work effectively? And is not therefore wise to recognize
that can also be indicated in the period congestive blood, and therefore antipyretic, a condition
of this genre as well as in the period Dyscrasic last and, just as in the state are and asthenic?
Then the iron is a tonic, but an excellent and special medicine to
cure its elective action by relations with this or that disease.

When you want to fortify a weak person, it is not ill, and being his weakness the effect of the disease
or a symptom, it should cure the disease, because it heal the cause of weakness and to the same at
once. The drug is directed to a condition vital that healed, allowing the body to regain its
activity and strength; correct the condition, as food to sheer weakness. There are drugs that
can act as food reconstitutive drugs intended to return the body with chemicals that missing,
iron is one of these drugs in certain cases in which the blood lacks more or less of it. In this
issue of therapeutic agents include even some substances because still hesitate to a multitude
of cases, and whether or not a primary condition, essential dynamically cured, which would be
the cause of the diminution of the normal amount of iron in the body.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = chlorosis, anemia .-- That iron is a powerful generator of blood cells, no I doubt,
but it is also another important truth must be proclaimed to the just appreciation its therapeutic
effects, is that the iron tonic, called by Marcus contrast of chlorosis, is but the first in a series
of effects of this drug on the vitality of the organs, lymph node
innervation and the development of elements organics, which ultimately
in this series, corrupted and altered, affect weak and impotence.

Not concern us enter the discussion of theories that have been given about the nature of chlorosis.
We limit ourselves to enter the clinical observation, as esperimentacion pure, are in line to
prove that the iron work dynamically on bodies the hematosis, and
hence on the intimate constitution of this fluid, as part we will
continue trying to practice in this article.

Iron is also an alterative agent from the blood and humours, as the impoverished, and discolored
tissue, affecting the body to decay and decomposition, symptoms indicating the given iron
chlorosis, are: large muscle weakness, the only action to speak fatigue, need to be thrown, and suppression
of several erethism secretions, shortness of serous effusions and hydrops, except the swelling of
the feet and swelling Pale skin around the eyes, restless sleep, fatigue on awakening, oppression
of the Heart that prevents sleeping on her side, pulse small, the sound of steam in the heart and
great glasses, the slightest movement palpitations, tightness and constriction in the chest
at given moments morning sweat, acid, congestive movements in the head, pain in the same, especially
one side, curving increasing headache, alopecia, anxiety and throbbing in the epigastrium ringing
in the ears, eyes misty, earthy or dirty face, a pale or dark, ease congested and then switched
to the face, redness of the cheeks like a stain red skin that is pale, round, pale lips, dilated
nostrils to each expiration, anorexia, aversion to meat, regurgitation, nausea and vomiting acids
or food, farting, lientería, suppression of the rules or metrorrhagia, dry cough the morning
and after lunch, afternoon oppression, stomach cramps in the belly and chest, fingers of the
hands, lower legs and feet.

Cachexia chlorotic and anemic erethism has a nervous character that has its point starting in the
affection of the ganglion and nerves in the state of alteration of the functions Blood and
nutrients. No, no loss of blood or fluids, or serous or mucous flow. This distinguishes perfectly
machine iron, mercury, iodine, arsenic ....; no, not the glands lymph heart attacks or strokes
serous or flegmorragias. Chlorosis is indicated that iron, is characterized not by the noise
of bellows belonging to other anemias, but by the plethora and initial blood activity, the
lack of humoral or blood loss, and all other symptoms. The principles blood seem exhausted, the
body withers and kills still in full swing and freshness, the injury is dynamic and always was,
losses, finally, and bleeding only manifested in the period congestive and cachectic state,
and even if they have a passive character, always retain a seal congestive erethism, which is
typical of the action of the ferrous and its initial effect.

The exaggerated dose of iron in a highly dynamic disease, can at best relieve temporarily and actually give
this result, but the chlorosis is reproduced after the mitigation achieved with the medicinal abuse
also has its boundaries: states, in short, a sort of plethora Ereta with bleeding, especially
pulmonale, followed by tuberculosis or a wasting incurable anemic. If we remember the past, few
doctors will have to iron using stronger doses and with insistence, no serious accidents have
been replacing pulmonale these chlorosis reproduced by the treatment, who have not seen in
the same the expectoration bloody after use of ferruginous and have not seen him sick to the more chlorotic
than previously. This is one of the truths confessed naively by Mr. Trousseau, in spite of their
irreconcilable theories. These accidents are not covered up invoking the hypothesis of a change
of form of the disease or a mutual esclusione of chlorosis and tubers pulmonale, even with
preexisting tubers; are the effects of iron, that's all.

Drugs that have a more or less analogous to that of iron in the production
anemia, and treatment of this disease, we must indicate the sulfur,
cuttlefish, pulsatility, platinum, nux vomica, manganese, iodine,
arsenic, silica, mineral acids.

= B = Phthisis .-- Ha long since been advisable and iron used in phthisis, but with fatal results
and sad accidents, owing to the absence of detailed and at which
most physicians have abandoned him.

It was necessary for observation unite their clinical data to the esperimentacion in healthy
man, to allow some practical returning to the iron in the treatment of this serious disease.
Physiological symptoms and iron have been able to define ourselves in the disposition of individual
cases should combat advantage: These symptoms are represented by the gory accidents, product Iron
and abuse affecting the chest, but here are the main dry cough, spasmodic with constriction of the
chest, aggravated by movement, and that is more frequent afternoon and at night, accompanied
by expectoration of blood that increases the oppression, sputum striated blood, bloody or purulent
Espector that difficult, after access cough, then it is abundant, especially in the morning, fullness
and tightness, heat in chest burning gases rise to the trachea, stitches between the shoulder
blades, palpitations of heart, oppression more in the afternoon and after midnight, hoarseness,
anorexia, reluctance the flesh, warmth and drowsiness after eating, belching, vomituriciones,
constrictive spasm in the epigastrium, diarrhea, lientería, urine sediment bricks and tiles,
only to sleep supine, chill in the afternoon and general cold getting into bed, heat and excite
Blood, sweat at night and morning, which lasts until noon, produced least motion, and finally, dry
skin, dirty pale face, congestion in the head, redness of the cheeks, the conversation until the
excess fatigue, fainting sensation walking, ringing in the ears, epistaxis afternoon, cramps
in the calves and extremities, great fatigue, muscle weakness, heaviness of the limbs, emaciation, insuperable
desire lying down, feet cold, edema of the same, frequent pulse, hardly noticeable.

Dr. Muller, who has published a paper on the iron in pulmonary tuberculosis, confirmed pathogenetic
data and verified the abuse of the accidents, using hydrochloric iron at very weak in phthisis characterized
by symptoms and by these accidents, sitting addition, the following:

"I can not generally characterize the sphere of action of this medicine in phthisis, that saying is
especially useful in cases where doctors found him old contraindicated and dangerous. It especially
young people, lush, representing a passenger erethism vascular system or who are willing to congestion
in the chest and head.

"The special symptoms are easily agitated and burning caused by movements body and the moral emotions,
and as a natural consequence, palpitation, dyspnea, cough, redness Sudden cheeks, epistaxis,
hemoptysis, rapid fatigue, nervous excitability. In individuals This category is rare that
the iron does not act favorably.

"In its relations with the cachectic state, iron can be used to advantage in hectic fever, colliquative
in advanced tuberculosis (described above), since results from all
observations that this drug is indicated in two different states of
disease, in principle and in a very advanced.

"

This dual action treatment is not unique to iron belongs to all drugs as we have seen our readers,
which is a fact that our research have been patented both in the
ancient practice, as modern therapeutic applications, and that the
clinic is also in harmony with the physiological esperimentacion.

= C = Erethism blood, bleeding, mucus, headache, cachexia .-- The reader is not strange signs indicate
that we are left to the administration of iron in the cases of ESRD
blood in people irritable, nervous and sanguine temperament with hemorrhagic
Molimo local or general, or with active bleeding, particularly of
the lungs and womb and amenorrhea as ESRD.

Iron, in those cases, but indicated that chamomile and nux vomica, its action may be likened to that
of arnica in this circumstance, but these indications should be filled with dynamic dose weaker.

Iron, on the other hand, according to the symptoms already known, is excellent to combat amenorrhea
anemic, to excite the menstrual flow very weak or delayed cure hemoptysis metrorrhagia and anemia
with pallor, palpitations, edema.

Is indicated for chronic bronchitis, catarrh of the bladder, leucorrhoea with mucus or sero-purulent
abundant, when anemia precedes flows and is not caused by blood loss or humoral. Diarrhea is
usually indolent iron, but has often abrasions in the anus, his leukorrhea
is almost always an altered serum as the Lolium temulentum.

Sulfur and quinine are also the more analogous to the iron, again and affection. They like
him very effective in lientería the laurel-rose battle with good results. The iron has the
character of that erethism instructed in the proper constipation anemic people, just as in the
case of people that we spoke at the beginning of this paragraph.

Neuralgia own iron are all anemic and are characterized by general weakness, by pallor, and
congestive heart beats, and movements in the affected part, these are true toothache and rheumatic
pains in the head, which often compete healing quinine and juniper, and even sciatica and
tic douloureux ... offering the same characters.

Iron is used to great advantage in the course of treating a disease are, to absorb an excess of
irritability that is opposed to the responsiveness of the action of most suitable drug, also
filled the same indication in asthenic conditions and anemic dominated
by a large fiber excitability.

With this character should be presented the diathesis malaria and cachectic states to be relieved
by iron: in these states cachexia understand the abuse of quinine and opium. As for iron,
he be remedied with lime sulfur pulsatility, arsenic.

= Dose .=-- The first three iron grindings are often used to combat diathetic anemic conditions
that are indicated, the most high attenuation applied treatment of injuries of the sensitivity
and ESRD.

In the first case can be manage up to one gram per day in three doses, the second, just a drop
or a few cells steeped in the sixth or the Eighteenth attenuation in water clock. Water iron, Nancy
Bowling, iron tartrate species, various pills and lozenges ferruginous, are preferable to the
form pilule and administered in different doses.

But the most recommended preparation and we have designated the first, iron is treated by hydrogen,
and divided and weakened by successive crushing down milk sugar.

The iron as ferric chloride solution can be used to concentrate the
dose from one to twenty drops per day, is today the most used, and
often the most apropos.

We have nothing to say to exterior use as a hemostatic, it is one of the most effective, just
for example soak in this solution pure a piece of cotton and apply on a leech bite instantly
to stop severe bleeding in children or in people with anemia.

Graphite (GRAPHITE).

§ I. - History.

This mineral carbon, also called plumbago and percarburo iron (an iron hand and nine carbon)
is a new drug introduced in the medical field in 1812, and used successfully, the interior
and exterior, in dartros by Dr. Weinhold, who gave him published in a scholarly work. Its effectiveness
soon recommended him to the practical foreigners, and the same was not Hufeland contributed the
least to their practice. In France Marc who was called by this drug, but was unsuccessful. Hahnemann
was necessary [1] and several medical school, desiring to review the medical field and clarify
its numerous agents with pure esperimentacion data, publish the result of their trials and numerous
clinical facts so that we know. Undertake their study with the hope of being useful to doctors, informing
them of a powerful and very despised in a multitude of conditions
rebels, particularly in scrofula and dartros.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

Graphite has obviously an elective action on the skin system on the one hand, and the vein on
the other: the two systems, ie, venous and lymphatic elements are the centers and the nerve ganglion
is the direct agent.

The following characters sufficiently established differences in their
action of the charcoal, the throbbing, carbonate of lime, barite,
sulfur though ....., graphite have, with most of them, common characters,
these are great sensibility the cold, diminution of organic contractility,
alteration of nutrition deep, action slow to develop from a series
of effects that tend to fatigue more evenly.

The graphite does not direct its action and the heart, or brain in a direct or active; flegmásico
is non-essential or nervous, his febrile phenomena diathesis; represent a slow fever with remission afternoon
or at night, the cold and the chills subside; the heat is dry, burning in the extremities, but is not
fixed or lasting, sweat is mainly matutinal nocturnal, occurs or
is aggravated by movement and less strain on the mind; is foul, especially
when the result of accidental causes.

All indications of this remedy fatigue, lack of contractility of blood vessels venous and lymphatic
vessels. Hot flashes and many fast movements and congestive vague observed in the head, chest, belly,
limbs, and also a feeling burning burning to give some consistency
to the essentially passive venous congestion of this drug