 It was not long, but he held huge
altarpiece of gilded wood churriguerra style, tiled plinth and pavement marble flagstones black
and white, alternating. What most struck me were the graves of my ancestors. Embedded in both
side walls of the presbytery, complained bitterly niches covered with slabs of alabaster tracks,
recorded with long epitaphs, and over once since I started reading, I was distracted at Mass
or Rosary, trying to decipher those signs, crossed and unintelligible to me.

One night on his way to my room, it occurred to this question:

- Angus, what do the dead of the chapel at night?

And India, without hesitation, replied:

- They play chess.

I almost every night, requiring the blessing of my father, I was in the library playing chess with
Don Pepe Dávalos, Mayor of neighboring villages, was not surprised
response.

A game in which two men sat face to face for a long space time, without a word and without
moving just the odd pieces of wood between they had, and that lend themselves so admirably to
play with toy soldiers, a game and, again, I seemed especially designed
to be dead for the living, and the response of Sorrows was convincing.

-
Yes, continued the housekeeper.

Every night as you lie down to sleep, they become to play chess until it reaches the Father
to say mass. Then they return to their graves which, as it were,
their beds, and sleep during the day.

And having said the usual prayers for my parents and brothers, and another for my jerkin said,
for my horse "The Confite" fell asleep at the time.

II

Many years later, when I returned from Spain, married and with a woman of my own race, I found
the San Isidro Labrador things very different from when I left. My parents, two brothers and
Angus had gone of life, and Don Pepe Dávalos, deposed municipal sick
and old wandered through the cloisters, the chess games longing to
"His Grace the Mr. Don Alonso.

"I noticed the friendly affection of many servants had amenguado thanks certain winds blew
North fronds, and I felt from the beginning marked repulsion by the new administrator of the
Treasury, appointed by the executor of my father.

His name was Don Guadalupe Robles, and insolent appearance showed clearly that it had once been
bold and tough guerrilla chieftain.

Many feared that the Treasury had little appeal to my wife, but Agnes, used the austerities
of Spanish tower, San Isidro Labrador found much to his liking, and
she suggested us to fix our residence there.

After a few months, and approaching the owner of the land party, my wife, by dint good Madrid
suggested that the party was celebrated with special pomp. Therefore prepared clothes to distribute
to the poor flowers commissioned to adorn the house and chapel, and invited, Pontifical Mass
to sing, a certain bishop, who, since childhood, I called "Uncle Bishop", but really lacked
any relationship.

I agreed willingly, both to please Agnes, as I have found the occasion to make it look a lot
of objects, which, as a collector of antiques enthusiast, I boasted. The non-negligible flow
vestments and sacred vessels, which the Treasury had donated my ancestors, I added a large collection
of objects found some in dilapidated cities, brought others from the Peninsula. I was especially
notable rich collection engraved silver, consisted of several dozen
candlesticks, large and small, lecterns, ornamental vases and planters,
not a few torches, some chalices and goblets, and a custody I was
pleased that I attributed to Juan de Arfe and Villafañe.

But what I liked and showed I to my friends with great pride, was a game I learned in Cintra
censers. Work Portuguese full of XVIII century, will be understood of course that such sachets
were to be extravagant, in fact, measuring two feet high, and affected the unusual form of Pegasus,
but his work was so complete, that really could be in the best collection of art objects.

With
all these elements, I realized that the magnificent altarpiece, whose
intricate covered litter the main wall of the chapel with twisted
columns and pilasters, pediments interrupted whimsical brackets and
canopies sheltering niches and polychrome sculptures, would shine
the rich and if you want great set of gold and silver, like a glowing
ember, and started to make preparations with no little enthusiasm.

Arriving on the eve of the feast, I went into the chapel to arrange and vínoseme to my mind
a world of memories. Watching the funeral allegories and signs reading of the gravestones,
which worried both my childhood years, I saw again a thousand incidents
of my childhood and listened once again, the voice of loved ones,
including Angus, whom I dogmatically asserted that my dead played
chess every night ....

I ran the placement of the various ornaments
on the altar and sanctuary, where Don Guadalupe Robles went to the
chapel, under the pretext of consulting agreement does not end administration
of the estate, and gathered there to see the flow, greed reflected
in his face making direct eye while talking with me, one by another
object, whose existence is not even suspected.

Then it was more my disgust for this man, and I certainly believe that this attempt to rob
me, that throughout the night I could not dismiss this thought in my mind, and left the bed
very early, when still asleep silent masters and servants.

With the first light of dawn, I entered the chapel. At first glance, most objects remained in
the places where you placed the day before, but what Judge yourself would be my amazement, seeing
that a large number of candlesticks, vases and other lay scattered on the ground in utter chaos!
Nothing remained standing, cornered in an angle below choir, four
objects.

I approached, and a shiver ran through my body. The dead had played a game of chess! Yes, there
in the corner, on the tile white, was a brazier, and in front of him, except a row of tables,
and occupying their respective boxes, a vase, a small spotlight and one of the perfumers, this
is the closest to the wall. Yes these three parts - the bishop, pawn and knight, - had been mated
to the brazier or the King!

After some time, I could control myself, and I replied with a trembling hand on the different sites
objects, so that no more than I realized the event.

The party was held properly, and both the Bishop and the friends who visited our invitation, there
were languages ??of the beauty and richness of my collection.

But I paid little attention to such compliments, seized my mind with the enigma and the suspicions
harbored against Don Guadalupe Robles. These increased when I surprised him at dusk, in the
shadows the corridor, talking quietly with Joaquin, his fellow man abutment and confidence. I
pretended not seeing them, and I passed, but decided to pack my antiques and forwarding to Mexico
as soon as possible, as he found me the opportunity to get rid of the Administrator.

I do not know how long after having been asleep, broke the silence
of the night such a scream of terror, which continues and will continue
ringing in my ears as I live.

The heard my wife and woke up scared, I heard the servants all, and in a few moments, cloisters
were populated by shadows, voices of fear inquired what was happening.

I took a flashlight and followed by the most resolute, I directed
my steps towards the site fearful whence the cry seemed to proceed.

The vestry door was open and I realized my suspicions were confirmed. Entered. Or in the sacristy,
or in the chapel had more light than the dim light shining through windows and domes, and
at first nothing could distinction, but little, the flickering light of the lantern showed us
that all objects silver, absolutely all, were huddled beneath the choir, fencing, imprisoning in
the corner, Don Guadalupe Robles, who, with his body leaning back, and recoiling, extending
both arms against the walls of that corner of the chapel. His eyes were their orbits, and all
his face was an image of terror. I called him by name, looked at me his answer was staring and
laughing.

KING'S HAT TIBOTU

STORY FOR CHILDREN.

                

Julio Torres

The King of Tibotú had (naturally) three children. The elder was called Chapachapa, the second
Chopochopo, and less Chipichipi.

The king was very rich, had seventeen umbrellas all colors, a green cap and yellow-tail, very funny,
and a top hat, so tall that bordered as monumental. The queen, pundits, and was wearing blue
socks polyglot: when something fell very much in favor, spoke in Chinese, and when angry, screaming in Catalan.

The
kingdom was composed, in addition to the populous city of Tibotú,
two islands.

Was harvested in a lots of coffee and dairy cattle were numerous, in the other cocoa producing
and had very good bakers and confectioners.

The islands were commonly known by 'La-isla-de-café au lait " and "La-isla-de-chocolate-with-buns."

Tibotú
royal family lived happily for many years, but one night the king ate at dinner, a whole roasted
piglet, and died a few hours, surrounded by his wife and children.

After nine minutes, nine seconds, according to the Ceremonial of that
Court, wait before opening the testament of the deceased monarch,
was found last provision of the autocrat was that his populous city
of Tibotú happen to his beloved wife, and Islanders' Café au lait
'and' Chocolate-to-buns "to his two sons, and Chopochopo Chapachapa,
respectively.

As Chipichipi, his father legábale hat.

Imagine the joy of the spouse and grown children, Benjamin and anger of the house. What he wanted
an old hat, dirty and so little artistic?

Prince invaded the mind of such fury, that dropped to the ground and the despised garment propinóle a
strong kick. But in doing so, he felt a sharp pain in the foot, as if struck against a stone.
With still greater fury, picked up his hat and started cutting it
with great courage, but, behold, he found, between the liner and the
cup, something hard, rock, indeed larger than a hen's egg, although
not as much as an ostrich, it was red as blood of a pigeon and the
sun shone in a surprising way.

It was nothing less than a ruby.

I must not refer to the feeling that this finding resulted in the entire world. Suffice it
to say that all the crowned heads, and many who were not, disputed the possession of so magnificent
gem. Most were interested in obtaining the President of the English Republic, Grand Duke of
Texcoco and Mr. Elihu P Goggles, Paradise, Texas. Needless to say, this seems last and was famous
billionaire who bought the precious stone, paying for it ten seven
million dollars in gold, and seventeen in "Liberty Bonds" in the seventeenth
issue, and calling himself, thereafter, "The Ruby King ', or' The
King's Ruby."

Of course, Chipichipi invested their money and gave great life. He bought a car "Ford", a police
dog, and a Dictionary of the Academy.

Instead his brothers were ruined: coffee was lost, and dairy cattle died, the cocoa price fell and
bakers and bakers went on strike perpetual.

And whenever they talked about the top hat of her late husband, the Queen exclaimed pundits, Portuguese:

"In
all things, insignificant they may seem, there is some value for those who can find it."

THE REPORTAZGO

Reporters understand that you have responsibilities to their readers
and therefore Always walk for news, but as I hate repetition, I want
the diary you represent, being the most important in the country,
is my sole spokesman this issue.

Within ten minutes to get my wife in the meantime, therefore, I beg you listen carefully and
write to my dictation. I will give all the details of the case that you see, is something very simple.

I'll
start by saying that I had a few years old when my father died, legándome a large fortune. But
as the entertainment never entered into my calculations, I decided to pursue a career, and chose
the career of Surgeon. Here, among us, I confess that I have always considered medicine as the
rifle of Ambrose, but surgery, - ah! that's another thing.

Through of radical surgery can cure all diseases of mankind, and not far the day that even death can
be prevented by it.

My teachers were amazed by the extraordinary skill I gained from the beginning: scalpel in my hands was
like a brush in an artist. Each cut mine was wonderful precision and art, yes sir, art. I won
the first prize at the Academy, and when I issued the title of Surgeon, it was noted that it had never
achieved ratings higher. The first major operation to execute, after it was received, was
the amputation of both hands of the famous pianist Gerosltein.

Of course it was absolutely unnecessary for this gentleman lost both hands, but since I did not
like the way to play Beethoven, I decided to cut the root evil, and forgive this slight plaisanterie.

At
that time I met Matilde. I do not remember if it was at a dance at the palace of Princess
Dorodinski, or if it was in horse racing. But I have in mind that from the first time I saw her,
I realized that was the most beautiful woman he has been in the world, and So I had to be my wife.
I was then too romantic, does not call care to know that my cut was made in light of the moon.
The Conservatory Orchestra playing selected music every night under
her window, and I even afford a poet of fame for him to write madrigals,
which I signed.

To make a long this story, I will say that while carrying out preparations our wedding, Matilda
did nothing but mourn, mourn ... Crying with love for me, as I said his mother ... Matilda,
I said, is and will be the most beautiful woman on earth. But, my friend While the saying that
there is no complete happiness in this world. Shortly after our marriage, a terrible suspicion began
to martyr himself. Matilde was from the outset a model wife, but the passionate kisses that I
gave were never matched, never rested his gaze on me with affection, and all the small sacrifices
that she did not even were noticed, much less grateful ... At last, it was a bitter day that
the suspicion became a certainty. With the pretext of feeling tired and put my head on his chest,
I the terrible discovery that Matilde, the most beautiful woman on
earth, had no heart.

Long stood stunned, but suddenly a ray of light illuminated my mind.

Almost every day I went to the amphitheater and witnessed Academy
courses.

Remembered On the morning of that day, had gathered in the street the corpse of a young low people
who had been hit by a tram. Have the same age, more or less, Matilde.

It was ten o'clock at night when I went to the concierge and asked the Academy keys the arena
to pick up instruments that I had left forgotten. The concierge me the crossed then and even
offered to accompany me, but I bestowed the trouble, and entered alone in the room. Fifteen
minutes later, left there holding in his hand a pack showed the concierge,
to see that it was indeed my property, and the fund the pocket of
my coat a tiny bundle wrapped in gauze.

That naturally did not see the good man.

Matilda was already in bed, when I went to say goodnight. I noticed that shook a little to see me
come into her bedroom, but I reassured her with a smile, and went a chaste kiss her forehead.
All I had skillfully prepared, and was half a second question apply chloroform and numb. Once
this is achieved, I continued my work with all calm. In fact, the operation was very simple: it
is reduced to open the chest and placed in the corresponding site on her heart. And here I must
record an extraordinary thing.

I had just begun operation, when they appeared on the sheets two or three roses red, which
were multiplying, to cover nearly the whole bed.

The success of
the operation, not expected longer satisfy the contrary, with the
highest taste the world, I sat next to my wife waiting for him to
wake up from sleep