 

Finally the officers took to clear, and the fans were pulling the ring is until it completely
free. Enrique and Miguel, who had been in the courtyards talking briefly with cigar and his crew
were also to occupy the respective seats. The noise had decreased a lot, because this is perceived
by the chords hospicianos charanga, which until then had failed to be heard. Viewers took off
their watches and meaningful glances ran for president. In this, the charanga sang real progress
with energy, all faces turned to the regional viewpoint which appeared Queen Elizabeth: Some
clapped, others said 'hush, hush, "because the political atmosphere was then overcast with some clouds
who downloaded not long after. Made the signal, after all, the teams entered the arena to the sound
of the running of the zarzuela Pan y toros: out, as usual, forming three rows in front of
each was the respective sword. To see a prolonged burst of applause. Severe across the square,
firm, rhythmic, listening to the shouting that his appearance had raised with the utmost indifference;
its rich costumes and bright Capellaro live firing flares that pleases the eye.

- Mial, mial old! ... That is, to the left ... Mial which side has
... Le zumba the soul to this guy!

.. In Spain there is no longer bulls who receives more than he ...

All attention was concentrated on the plaza cigarette cases, despite the fact that also killed Laurel
and lizards, which was then beginning to be the darling of the public. But for the Madrid
fan, to see receive a bull is one of those dreams that never made although they live constantly
in the heart stand taken by several bullfighters, but receive receive what is called truth,
they have not done more than the ancient heroes of bullfighting.

Uniform saluted with a gesture to the chair, and broke ranks, pulling layers gala friends in the
stands, who were responsible for their care with more pride than if they were the Ark of the
Covenant. The president took out his handkerchief, blew the bugle, the door opened pen: the first
bull appeared. Miura was a chestnut, chorreao, ribbon, thin and beautiful film, raised long horn.
Volunteer showed himself noble in the sticks, holding six Shiv of round picks. But to get to
the sticks began to fight back. However, the Serranito couple stabbed a superb room with fine and
clean, pleasantly surprised the public: in Madrid did not know, as in Seville, Baldomero was
a boy who would much to speak. Hake was passed once and then hung a stick room as well. He turned
Serranito to pick up the sticks, and after trying in vain to hang on the bias, put them breaking
with cleaning and expertise. There was a frenzy of clapping in the square, her slender figure and
the unique correctness and delicacy of her features, captivated the audience, the women you greedily dug
twins, triumphantly walked around the square to receive the applause of smiling lines.

It was his turn to Cigarette: severely advanced to the presidency, took off his hat and he
croaked a few words that nobody could understand, then went straight to bull, which had marked
tendency to flee. Persiguiole some time unsuccessfully expectant curiosity through the square.
Finally, thanks to the efforts of the crew, could fret, and did pretty tight, giving some good passes,
the crowd applauded and the promised very happy. But amid the slaughter, the right-hander suffered
a strained and lost entirely aplomb, gave three or four passes without trust and broken, and fast
and running, without being either square the animal, rolled the cloth away and threw quite a
step of flags. The thrust was a dip in the most evil thing he had never seen. It's indescribable
anger that gripped the audience. Had it been another bullfighter had gone through a whistle,
large or small, but have conceived the hope of seeing a former teacher bullfighting by Montes
system and come to the square to witness that shame, this put out of his fans. What shouting,
good heavens! How insulting! I'm sorry! It seemed that everyone had just robbed him the honor
of his daughter.

- Morral, thief, big pig! So you hang by your feet! Are you the one who received the bulls? A
prison with that rascal! Mr. President, how soon would you have Civil Guard?

And amid the clutter, oranges, empty bottles and even a few stones, flying the square, and right-hander
hurt miracle. This advanced, pale, embarrassed, to the presidency. Tended to reach near where
they were Enrique and Miguel, an orange accurate him in the face and drew blood. Enrique, who was
already excited and nervous, could not repress indignation, and rising
shouted to those behind:

- Who was that brave?

Is that bold without shame?

- Outside the premature cool!

To dance! - Answered from above.

- Is it addressed V. me? - said
a rising with arrogance.

- I am writing to which he is.

- Then we
will see the faces on exit.

- It's see you to spit - Enrique said
angrily.

- Away, away!

Who feels that babieca! - Shouted from above.

He had no choice but to do so. The cigar smiled wiping the blood with his handkerchief. It was
a smile so sad and so humble, that Michael is the heart and were pressed on the verge of swallowing
tears.

Just when it appeared the second bull in the ring, found at all the fuss. For more than worked until
he could not take them out more, the poor did not get captured Cigarette benevolence, even the forgiveness
of the public. All efforts made, how many coats missed (and justice required to declare that the
casting of art), served as a mockery and ridicule the enraged people. El Gordo, in his bull,
was as usual, from Masters and clicking crutch pretty bad. Bullfighting lizard on his short
and cool, and went for the right to volapié, giving a good thrust,
but starting trompicado.

Many cheers.

Reached the fourth bull, which corresponded back to cigar.

Veragua was a red ribbon, energetic, black-eyed, open horn, good picture, like almost all
of the Duke, a brave and beautiful animal.

Hake will put up a good pair to crazing. The Serranito took after the sticks, and as the public
saw him in the middle of the square, applauded.

- Smell your mare, salt!

Room also wanted them, but it happened once because the bull would not start. Again quartering and
returned to spend for the same reason. Again he went to the bull, and again happened. Then there
was some forward movement in the public heard a whistle, this was the bane of the poor lad.
Wounded his pride, rushed to the res-blind and wanted to stab him the flags at all costs, the bull,
which had not moved, you'll be hooked below arm and flipped. There was a cry of horror in the
square. The entire crews rushed on the animal, trying to take it, but to no avail. Cigarette
unnecessarily jumping heroically in front of the horns, by putting the cloth over the eyes;
vain Lagartijo Gordo and he also threw coats, exposing them to die, the bull, as if he had any Baldomero
unfortunate grievance, not listen to anything, and picked it up again and again threw air.
Then the cigar, last inspiration, dropped the coat, clutched tightly the tail of the beast and began
colearla; took many turns, at last fell sick, the Gordo took the
coat away.

In this the Serranito had stood and smiled forcibly the public as the gladiator who wants
to die with grace, touched his chest and fell again, releasing jets of blood from wounds. Two Wise
Monkeys picked him up and took him to nursing, while others ran at once to cover the blood with
sand.

The president, who must have been shocked and upset as everyone in
the audience, gave the death signal, without considering that the
bull had been placed not more than a couple of flags, and it was dangerous
for the sword that was so full of death.

This was it!

The public, who likes to show good heart after the misfortunes that have happened, rose en masse,
becoming angry against the President, as if he was he had hit the horns to Serranito.

- Barbarian, savage, murderer!

Frantic waving fists and batons against the president's box, his eyes
blazing, blackness faces anger.

No one respected or even remember the majesty was at his side: the
shouting the most vulgar insults.

But the president, though he was repented, and must be, judging from the confusion that was
reflected in his countenance, could not revoke the order, his dignity would not let him. Then
the crowd went to the cigar, who had taken the stuff, and shouted:

- Do not kill, do not kill! I kill that murderer!

The Cigarette shrugged her shoulders and prepared to go looking for the answer. At that moment
a bullfighter who came running said something in his ear, and the sword was terribly pale.
The public knew he had bad news Serranito.

The killer took off his cap, passed his hand across his brow with
gloom, put it back and went toward the bull.

The cries went out instantly, mournful silence reigned in the square.

- He killed his brother!

Killed his brother! - They said the audience's ear.

And all inexplicable anxiety felt a deep sympathy for the unfortunate cigar. He moved slowly,
hesitant step towards the bull. But do not stop until stop drop cloth on the same horns.

- Ole! - Roared the square silence reigned.

The bull jumped as if she felt a spur, and stirred immediately, furious. The sword gave him a
chest pass, above.

- Ole! - Roared back the square.

And again there was silence.

Other countries followed this natural and round, given as short and with such skill, that the
public wanted to go crazy. The matador's feet barely moved out of a circle or very narrow, but
this circle seemed sacred and insurmountable; the bull's horns passed
rubbing the old man's jacket matador without doing the slightest harm.

Finally, the beast both stirred and fed up with fruitless attack, stopped panting. The bull and
the bullfighter looked, wipe it quietly rolled, threw the sword to the face and cited with the foot
to receive. Came the beast, furious, and she stuck the sword to the hilt. There repressed a scream
of excitement in the square.

The bull stood motionless for a moment against torero, threw a faint moo collapsed and fell
on his arms.

No one can represent what happened then: a delusion, a massive nervous breakdown, ten or twelve
thousand lunatics screaming at the top of his lungs, a cloud of cigar, cigarette and hats flying
through the air and black carpeting instantly the white sand. Twenty years had not been seen
in the square in Madrid the chance to receive, thus consummated.

The Cigarette glanced wanders the stands, ran his hand over his forehead,
and dropping to the ground the crutch, she ran like a deer without
attending to the cries of enthusiasm to the calls that made him everywhere,
jumped the barrier and disappeared of public view.

When it came to the hospital were already there and Miguel Enrique
with the doctor and some friends.

The priest had confessed and was about to put the anointing of the
unfortunate Baldomero, who presented in the face unfailing signs of
death.

When his brother came into his eyes to him and smiled warmly.

-
Is there no yes or NAA, eh? - He asked in an agitated voice, hoarse,
trying to persuade that there was no case of death.

- Not much, Pepe
... I'm going another neighborhood ar ...

The priest moved at that
moment with the sacred oils.

All the bystanders turned the knee. Eerie silence reigned, only interrupted by the murmur of the
clergy and the rattle the dying. When it concluded, Baldomero sent a smile to his brother and
handed him hand and said to work:

- My little ones ...

- Loses cudiao, Baldomero - said the old man's voice and her hand knotted heart .-- Your child
will be mine.

At that moment there came a great shout in the square. It was the people, who greeted the entry
the fifth bull.

The cigar dropped sobbing in the arms of Michael.

- What a sadness, D. Miguelito gun, what sadness!

X

Quite a few ups and downs took the advent of Independence, "liberal daily in the morning."
Our friend Mendoza nearly lost the right to run the streets clean. From the press the paper
store, hence the wording, the writing home of Rivers, and so the
whole part of the day and night.

Most of the writers was appointed by the count, some were children of regular commentators,
other journalists who had starved to loose some laudatory.

Finally, the first issue.

Great was the surprise of Michael to read under the title another
short rengloncito said: "Director: Don Pedro Mendoza and Pimentel.

She could not suppress a sense of outrage.

- But this fool, what will come to bear? - Whispered clutching the newspaper. Y after a while, looking
into panting, sweat running down his forehead to Brutandor, he faced
with him saying:

- Listen, Perico, are you strong enough to guide
me in the arduous tasks of journalism?

Mendoza turned red and began to stammer:

- I have not been!

... I know too!

... The count has been committed ... He said it was necessary a person
... We did not dare to put you in case you did not want ... Anyway
you know ...

- Well, well, I know that everything - Miguel said bitterly
.-- But these things, dear Perico they say if you do not agree.

This was the case. As it was anger, Miguel laughed at his friend Goose and did not think about it.
However, he charged with a few jokes, was the child could take revenge.

-
I participate, I love Manchester, if not give me a match, divulged
the secret that makes I have saved you years - said without looking
up from the pages he was writing.

Mendoza gave the match seriously and preventing out as he could ridicule
of his friend.

- What secret is that? - Asked him laughing the other
editors.

- I made an oath not to reveal it.

Perhaps someday he will find out. Have VV. patience.

And indeed, after a few months, having written an article on controversial Miguel personal Mendoza
was authorized to amend it by adding some words that were a serious conflict the newspaper.

- Do you see VV.? - Shouted angrily in the middle of drafting throwing
his hat against the ground many years ago .-- I will faithfully keep
the secret that is an animal, and he reveal it just now!

- I knew
- one editor said, smiling and looking suspiciously at the door.

-
Ah! Did you know V.?

- We knew it all - said another looking also
at the door .-- All but the Earl of Rivers.

- This is a very simple
explanation: the count is that Rivers is more animal than him. 

The
editors looked shocked, and without saying another word, bowed their
heads and continued writing.

- Listen, Perico - I say again - I think
that this coat is very short.

The fellow laughed because it was far
from true.

- It is quite long - a bit amostazado Mendoza said.

-
For any other mortal no doubt, but for a director! ... Notes, Perico,
you have made to the public certain unavoidable commitments.

The
writing consisted of a room and cabinet in a room mezzanine Bath Street.
At first everything was writing, and gradually more muted, Mendoza
was left only in the cabinet. One day came on the door this a sign
that said: Address. Perico is believed the explanation for his friend