 

'Say hello from us to Dona Gabriela, to Gabrielita and Don Carlos, and say we want mejorcito
child is. "

It gave me heart skip a beat I did not think in the P. Herrera, or that he was ill. Struck me Linilla
hunch that not writing for any other cause, and, indeed, I thought
I guilty, and I thought that Angelina guessed that Miss Gabriela stole
my love.

Linilla not like me, loves me not Linilla; Linilla want to forget, - I thought. And then oh misery
of the human heart! the poor girl took my thinking, and when I met Gabriela the entrance to the room
I thought it was another woman, another young woman or anyone who caused me interest or was
sympathetic to me. During dinner I talked about Angelina, her beauty, sweetness of his character,
his discretion, your skills and how much everyone loved her in home. Gabriela welcomed the praise
very happy, and repeated as I said enthusiastically. It treated P. Herrera, and Carlos said
he was very worthy of occupying the highest positions in the diocese,
he deserved to be bishop, and his extreme modesty, he was relegated
to the Sierra, in a remote village that was like a Thebaid.

Then we went to the room.

- Gabriela, - said Don Carlos - sit at the piano and play something!

Miss obeyed, and for an hour, until eleven o'clock, he knew he was playing was please his father.

I
read the newspapers, but I heard no music or me I learned the news. My thoughts and my heart
were elsewhere. I felt pleased with me. The conversation about Linilla had been, in my view,
as a test of loyalty, as a manifestation I love public. Linilla would be happy, his heart would
say its not love Rodolfo another, that his Rodolfo lived only for her, that his Rodolfo is unable
to forget. The idea Linilla ceases to love me filled me with dread
and I promised to be faithful to me even more beyond the grave.

The idea that I could lose Linilla so haunted me, and such I had so besieged that I wanted to fly
in search of the girl and said:

- Linilla, forgive me, forgive me! I missed my promises! I've forgotten
a moment, but just a moment! For pity's sake! Do not deny me your
love! ... Watch live only for you, for you, Linilla mine!

I kept
lying in music