 When you were born with the spirit ears closed and bolted to the voices of beauty,
went there in the woods immediate Madrid, chasing, gun in hand, horned cattle and yawning with
boredom during breaks from hunting, while queens are away arm in arm a bodyguard.

No one lives with impunity for three centuries the Inquisition marital contact, exercising power
as mere delegates of the Pope, under the inspiration of bishops, Jesuit confessors and monastic orders,
which left only the Spanish monarchy appearance of power, making overwhelming it theocratic republic.
The sadness of Catholicism penetrated to the core of the Spanish kings. As they sang the sources
in Versailles between marble nymphs, and the Knights of Louis XIV fluttered like butterflies,
with their colorful costumes, lewd and pagan, around the lavish beauty of their bodies, the court
of Spain, dressed in black, the rosary on his belt, I attended and conformed quemadero green
ribbon of the Holy Office, honoring with the office of marshal of the scorching of heretics. As
humanity, inflamed carnal by the breath of the Renaissance, Apollo, yielding admired worship
of Venus discovered by plowing through the rubble of the medieval catastrophes, the kind of supreme
beauty for the Spanish monarchy was executed in Judea, Christ dusty and blackish the old cathedrals,
with pale face, trunk and contracted skeletal, bony feet and shedding blood, much blood, the
liquid loved by religion when pointing the doubt when faith falters and to impose a dogma, it throws
his sword.

For this reason the Spanish monarchy has yawned sadness, the melancholy of a transmitting to
another generation. It is the quintessential Catholic royalty. If occasionally developed some
be happy and satisfied with life, was because the blue liquid maternal arteries sap injection
penetrated a commoner, as the sun's rays penetrate the patient's room.

Don Luis listened to Gabriel, accepting his words with gestures affirmative.

- Yes, we are a people governed by sadness - said the artist -. Dura still in us grim black
humor of those centuries. I have often thought how difficult it would then existence for an awakened
spirit. The Inquisition lurking words, wanting read the thoughts. The conquest of the sky as
the only ideal of life. And this conquest increasingly difficult! Had to give the money to the
Church for salvation, poverty was the perfect state. And sacrifice the welfare of the prayer
at all hours, visit daily to the temple, the life of brotherhood, the disciplines in the vault
of the parish, the voice Mortal Sin's brother interrupting sleep to remember the approach of death;
and linked to the existence of continuing concern, the uncertainty of salvation, the threat
of falling into hell for the slightest fault, not appease the God
never completely grim and vindictive