 

A silver chueta withheld a long time. He admired the hollow gold chains made for the peasant, buttons
filigree with a stone in the center was known inside all these objects as perfect and wonderful
works of art created for men. If you entered the store to buy a dozen of those buttons! ...
What a surprise of the Can atlota Mallorquí when he's offered to decorate their sleeves! ... Probably
that would accept him, a man who looked grave filial respect. Respect annoying! Damn gravity as that
bothered him as an overwhelming burden! ... But the heir Febrer, the offspring of wealthy merchants
and heroic sailors, had to withdraw thinking about the money he kept in his belt. Was certainly
not enough for such a purchase.

Then in another store Pepet purchased a knife, the bigger and heavier than found, an absurd
weapon, capable of making him forget that of his glorious grandfather.

At

noon, Febrer, bored aimless walks by the Navy and the steep streets of the former Royal Force, entered
a small inn, the only one of the city, located along port. He found the guests as usual. In
the lobby, a few young men dressed of peasants, with headquarters cap: soldiers of the garrison
that served as assistants. In the dining room, junior officers of a battalion, young lieutenants
who smoked with a bored and looked through the windows, as prisoners of the sea, the vast blue
expanse. While eating lamentábanse of bad luck of his youth, useless and lost in this rock.
They spoke of Mallorca as a place of delights, remember the provinces mainland, from which many
of them were children, as havens for those who longed to return. Women! ... It was a yearning,
a desire that shook their voices and put in their eyes gleams of insanity. Weighed on them, as a
string of insufferable prison, under caste Ibizan exclusivism island, suspicious to outsiders. There
was no joking with love, not time lost in wooing, or hostile indifference, or honest engagement
to marry soon. Words and smiles directly led to the marriage was only possible treatment with
youth to discuss the formation of a new family. And these young noisy joyful, exuberant juices,
suffered an ordeal tantalesco talking about the most beautiful girls of the city. The admired and
lived apart from them, despite moving in a narrow space which forced them to continuous games.
His whole dream was to get a license to live several days in Mallorca or on the Peninsula, off the
island virtuous and shy, which only supported the stranger as husband embark in search of other
lands, where it was easy to expand exacerbated their desires, like those of the college and the
inmate.

Women!

... Those young people did not talk about something else, and Febrer, sitting at the large table
of the Fund approved quietly his words and lamentations. Women! ... The irresistible trend that binds
us to them is all that remains strong after the upheavals moral life changing, what remains
standing amid the bodies of other illusions destroyed by the cataclysm. Febrer felt the same tedium
of those soldiers, printing of being locked in a prison deprivation that was to pit the sea. Now
it seemed the island capital of a population of monotony irresistible, with their ladies locked
in shy and monastic isolation. I thought in the field as a place of freedom, with their wives
simple soul and natural affections, limited only by a defensive instinct equal to primitive female.

That
afternoon he left the city. Nothing remained to him of the optimism of a few hours earlier.
Marina streets were foul, a foul odor escaped from the houses in
swarms of flies buzzed stream, jumping in the puddles at the sound
of the footsteps of a passerby.

The memory of the hills next to the tower, fragrant smell of wild herbs and salty sea, seemed
to smile in his memory with idyllic sweetness.

The car took him to a farmhouse near San Jose, and departing from it set off the mountain, passing through
pine bowed by heavy storms

.