 Is it true that Cristina has embarked or
is on track to embark? Is it true that the Prince has returned from Portugal, and heads the army?
". To these questions the traveler could not answer because he knew nothing, but well he reached
that came from false information and lies, cleverly planted seed in these countries had to make
shots early harvest. Kept going and finally came into Estella. Although it was twelve a beautiful
day when he stepped on the square, the next whim seized very dark shadow thrown heights above
the city and that was drowning in her belt mountains. Each step was gang-coated clergymen cape
and hat umbrella tassel, chatting in a living language on the issue of the day, which was the
death of King and problem of succession.

And ran one of those gentlemen to inquire about the residence of Colonel pseudocyst, he wanted
to see without wasting time, and the clerk, and pike chubby man, answered as follows:

- New you in this land. If it were you, I know that to find the famous Pseudocyst no further
to find out where to play and where people drink.

Pointing his umbrella at the corner of the street, said the good man that follows: - Do you see
the house where it says in really big letters Spirits?

Well there you will find you when drunk.

And he went laughing and rushed to meet the crew that had followed
on foot while he paused.

All other individuals of red and black cap umbrella were also pike and chubby, sure sign of people
not much given to penance.

Salvador soon found his friend, and found him drunk and playing, but gathering with three other
soldiers and two civilians. The colonel's surprise and joy were great. After hugging, retiráronse
a dilapidated quarter of the inn (as an inn, café, tavern and something else was that house)
and talked to more than an hour alone. When Salvador was removed rest in the same room that I spent
there, I thought I had won the game and was satisfied with his risky journey, which had the
fortunate. But God willed that all plans are disrupted and that every difficulty overcome born
another impressive difficulty. That recibiose afternoon announcement that Mr. Santos Thief, the daring
guerrilla Rioja, came Estella on five hundred volunteers, the cry of Spain by Charles V. Stood on
the move the small garrison of the place, and God knows what would have happened if it did
not timely Brigadier Lawrence, commanded by the Viceroy Solá with the regiment and provincial
Cordoba Sigüenza. Lorenzo did not rest in Estella. That night saw the streets Salvador Mayor
and Santiago crowded with soldiers, who were rationed with bread
and wine, talked with them and could note that reigned among the troops
good spirit, although his enthusiasm for the cause that started to
defend was not very big yet.

Lorenzo started at midnight. The next day he learned of the battle of the Arcos that volunteers
were shattered and the thief was captured. Salvador saw second time the troops of Lawrence,
back to Pamplona, ??bringing the guerrilla gift Santos and Iribarren. The worst thing for our friend,
was that Lorenzo was also Pamplona to the three prisoners in the prison of Estella were, and
with this determination came to earth built by Monsalud plan in concert with pseudocyst. Setback
as unexpected success seemed to herald lousy attempts Salvador generous because Estella prisoners
were already sentenced to death. But it collapsed because of this, and put up to Pamplona,
??following the winning squad. It gave him an advantage on pseudocyst accompany him, to which
had humanitarian cooperation, although it would be difficult exercise
in the same residence of the Viceroy.

Along the way he could see his brother Salvador prisoner and in a state of exhaustion and despondency
that inspired pity those who watched him. In a rickety cart was lying transports on pallets, the
hardness of the stones to compete. As the truck had a canopy and Palitroques mode side bars, they
look like a cage was large, from which it was that Mr. Navarro, looked from the outside, skinny, boring,
stiff and sleepy, it seemed D. something Quixote when he had loved since the sale to his village.
Salvador was able to approach, with the leave of the escort, and
exchanged a few words with the prisoner, which was slow recognize
and looked slowly with eyes like those of a madman.

- What are you
doing here? - Said bringing his face to the sticks -.

Are you the one who looks or you another?

- I'm the one appears - bowing Salvador said as much about the saddle
of his horse -