 All announced we were going to have a formal meeting with the French army.

To our knowledge, Dupont continued in Andújar, reinforced by the division of Vedel. Had they stuck with
our third body action and the reserve, which, crossing the river by Marmolejo were located on the
right bank? We thought so, unless Brown does not wait to attack vigorously the first and second
divisions fell on the back of Dupont's army, down from Bailen. Was this the purpose that guided
us in our journey?

Parecíanos yes.

While the drama was time away from us and on the flanks of the imperial army, thousand dramatic
incidents were precipitated the catastrophe, gradually angering the enemy. The bodies and columns
of guerrillas, led by D. Juan de la Cruz, Count Valdecañas Argote and the cleric had been scattered
like deadly swarm through the villages and hamlets which dominated the French headquarters
in the foothills of the mountains, north Andujar. So those ardent pursuit of the French peasants,
and so dispersed quickly to avoid being attacked, that the raiders was quite impossible to be quiet
for a moment. The mighty giant who shook a handful moscones poisonous, but they returned to buzz
around him, annoyed him with its terrible bites, and escaped unscathed, without fear of the sword
or the gun, because these weapons have not been made mosquito.

The French could not deviate from its headquarters and not in large detachments. Thousand men often
went to fill in a few alcarrazas next source of water. If by chance squads out to roam a little
strength, were released by guerrillas at the drop of a hat. Before consenting to get the best
of a breadbox, the burning; sources were clouded with mud and manure, so they could not drink
the mills, disassembled and buried the stones to grind not a single grain. French unto him that
linger in his detachment marches! He felt himself suddenly seized by a thousand angry hands,
he felt drawn by women, pinched by the boys and stabbed by men, until their existence was extinguished
with hideous crash into the cold depths of a well. The invader was no asylum anywhere, and necessarily
confined within the limits Headquarters, I saw other men conspired against Nature. Therefore, angry and
desperate, longed to fight a pitched role, sure of his skills and customs of war, and mourning
the astonishment of the Commander in Chief, exclaimed: "Let us fight, and although half die army,
conquer half a puddle to drink and a handful of dry wheat lead to the mouth. "

They had left the French in Montoro a detachment of seventy men to guard a mill where they made
with flour terrible difficulty. The mayor of that town, where had not been not a single firearm,
dare, however, to account for the seventy French, for which it was necessary to send twenty-first
at all times that were guarding the bridge. Thus encompasses some countrymen determined, and using
knives, furiously attacked the guard, the twenty-five are killed, grab their rifles the brave
crew, surprised the rest of the garrison in the house which housed ago prisoners, soldiers
and commanders, and sends them to the island of Leon. The party was notified this event to
the Supreme Board said that everything was done with the rods of the harrieros (retain the
original spelling), but this must be a hyperbole Andalusia.

Feeling called to larger stocks, D. José de la Torre (for so he was appointed alcaldito) goes
to meet a convoy that came from Cordoba, and fifty-nine French guarding it, fifty are lying
on the road, and the remaining nine Dupont are to tell what happened. Dupont then send a thousand
men with Montoro Custom ignite and carry the people living or dead the mayor. Arde Montoro,
and Torre conducted live, will be spent for weapons, but a French general, who shortly before had
given hospitality to intercede for him, he is released, and that petit foreman Sevilla guerrillas
and get up to the Board of gallons of army captain.

Well, what happened in Montoro occurred in all the peoples of the road to Andalusia from Cordoba
to Santa Elena. The giant fire to and destroyed more armies could take a step without finding
a nest, and furious with that buzz, poisoned stings, cursing the time of the invasion. The
eagle, eaten by insects, squawked the banks of the Guadalquivir in hunger and fever, sharpening
his claws on the trunk of olive trees, with the desire to come soon destroy the chance of
something.

XXI

When we go into dance, and late at night, we was very surprised to see no French force at the entrance
of town to dispute the passage. Where had been the French? What happened to them, as a precaution
and left there a couple of battalions to save point so important? Soon we doubt, because the
mouth of the inhabitants of Bailen, who left en masse to welcome
us, we knew that the division Vedel had passed through in the direction
of Carolina.

- We did them to you in Linares - said D. Paco, who
also came to meet us and joyful -.

Oh, Mr. Earl, my child ... Does Your Excellency hurt perchance? Come a little home, where Mrs. Countess
and girls are praying for the success of war. Do not give the troops a break?

Our General had determined to leave at once for Andújar, but as we
occupied all the village, we arrived at the house of our master, whose
floor room gave us a snack very comforting.

- It's a miracle that
we can give these few loaves and these ounces of raw chocolate - we
D. said Paco by offering those items -.

The French have left anything. Tut plunder! And thank you to stay alive. Alas, Ms. Countess
came out to meet with a serenity I freaked. I was shaking, and I had to hide in the oratory, because
in front of them had lost the dignity of my character.

What a way to loot !...; in short, straw horses, barnyard chickens, eggs, until I had some
tomatoes that stash on my desk to make a gazpachito ..., everything was taken away. The town is dead
misery, and I know many people who made the flour in the dumps so that they do not ride. Do not you
think? Why, and Mr. Salvador, who took the field two hundred skins percent oil and wine he
had in his cave, and uncovered that precious left running broth until it sucked all the earth?
Others made a bonfire with cars and straw. The jewelry and silver images of the churches are all
buried, because this seems to be what they are most open eye on these gentlemen. So furious were
they from when they saw it taken out of here much. On day 16, after having spent a great fear,
enjoy the unspeakable when I saw the boat arrive Menjíbar, defeated and the General died. I ran
through the streets, and what screams gave, and what things so heinous and indecent cast by
those loudmouth! So the very dogs would take revenge! Well, what do you think? They killed many
people who did them no harm, which I think is not seen in any of the wars of Alexander. But they
are also hard ground. A few passed through the By taking street from bluster, and stopped at
the door of the inn Gil, where had turned the oven to cook the dishes. Ay! My Frenchies are
made that do not know what obscene insolence Gil's wife when the boys leave, I grab them, and
helmets and all ..., slap ... !..., baked But here comes Mrs. Countess, who was in the oratory
with girls.

Indeed, we saw parading seriously, covered in black cloak, the lady of the house, followed of
the two tender pimpollitos their daughters, who cried in the arms arrojáronse of his brother.
Dona Maria hugged his son without losing his solemn for a moment and stretched packing, and then
saluted them all with great affection, names one by one. Composed many the crew were present except
Santorcaz, which since our arrival had requested in a hurry to D. Paco puéstose writing materials
and to draw some letters in the office it.

The countess, after greeting us, sat down and went to D. Diego worthy words History:

- My son, I know everything that happened in the action of 16, and no one has told me to do
something remarkable. Have you been afraid?

- Fear! - Said the boy, laughing - No, ma'am. I have done my duty in the ranks, and nothing
else so far, but his mercy do not be impatient, because although
I am only a soldier I hope to show off.

- Nothing more than a soldier!
- Said the Countess -.

You are no soldier, even if this appears. Any that is the position occupied, each must act
according to his name and position has in the world.

What say you, me, this house of your deceased father if, in these Wars do not do something
more than what corresponds to a simple soldier?

- Lady - said the young man with an ease that surprised his family - I do what I can, and as I do,
so I will be more or less than others. And I talk about this, mother, I want to go in the army,
I want to ask your worship the King, what do I say to the King?, a the Board, a shoulder strap.

-
You are not meant to be military but this time supreme, where the
country needs of all children, from highest to lowest.

- But, mother,
I am nothing and I want to be something - insisted the young man,
showing an energy no one had hitherto known.

- You are nothing! -
Said the mother, first with surprise, then anger, and looking everyone
like to ask if his son had gone mad during the campaign.

- I am nothing,
I am a pied - said the boy -.

What are you worth these vile papers old and these coats of arms, if all laugh at me since I open
my mouth because I say no rather than nonsense?

La Condesa reddened like scarlet, and without saying a word, looked
at D. Paco, who, confused, lost, terrified by what had just heard,
rolled their eyes back frightened for another.

- This young man -
he said at last ayo - seems to have lost his mind.

Lady, when he returns from fulfill his duties as a gentleman in the fields of battle, we will
be entering either the maximum contained in the story of Alexander
the Great.

Dona Maria, whose dignity could not allow such a case is tried in front of people strange silenced
D. Paco, and silenced his son with a look scary.

Assumption and Presentation, after the pockets of his brother, studied leggings, Charpa hat and, to
be seen, they said, if those clothes were pierced by a cannonball.

But D. Diego, feeling no doubt in his mind a seething mass of words, hastily occurred to him
as to the sudden fertility of their knowledge, could not be silent long time, and spoke to give
more care to Mrs. Rumble.

We were, as I said, in a lower room, where the Countess had been brought to our gift, a pair
of wine-skin, miraculously saved from the rapacity of France. Don Diego, after he saw this,
he turned to us, we stayed respectfully held at the door, and hearty
gesture Trust told us:

- Hey, guys, come all here Why are you in
the door?

Go, put on hats, here we are all equal, all are comrades in arms, and the same can kill me a bullet
to you. Come, drink together. Do you shame because I am noble and primogeniture, wolverine and you
are poor? Outside nonsense, that today or tomorrow the Boards remove all these antiquities,
and then everyone will be worth as you have and what you know.

Don Paco turned green when he heard such nonsense, and touching his heart, looked at Countess to
face hurt and grieved, as if to express, in the sole eloquence a look, he had not taught these
things to the young disciple. Doña María enclosed anger in the depths of the chest and knew he
was sick but the concern and anger the furtive glitter of his dark eyes, said nothing that would
compromise their dignity, and wishing your child more of conversation, asked if he had done
on visits to Cordoba Ms. Marquesa de Leiva and his niece.

- Yes, madam - said the boy -. I saw them: Mrs. Countess gave me lots of candy, and the Marquesa
I asked if he could help mass. Over and over they told me the girl who is entered my marriage
persists in refusing to leave the convent, ensuring that previously married to Jesus Christ
to me. What ranciedades, dear mother! - Added to new outburst -. I want to keep in the army,
I want to go to Madrid to treat people who know, and philosophers,
and read the Encyclopedia, and see the secret societies, if any then,
and learn what I do not know, because D. Paco not only taught me the
folly of On the railing of the sky.

The schoolmaster looked back compungidamente the Countess, painting in his eyes wet persuasion
that he had not instructed of the estate in such wickedness, and Ms Mary scolded his son with
truly royal majesty, telling him to pause and poise these bitter words:

- My son, remember that I gave you a sword that had belonged to your
grandparents.

Honor gives that steel sticks that old, but she also receives from the hands of the holder, whichever
is person who can acquire them in the battlefields. Disgrace "that brought you this sword your father's
great-grandfather on the site of Maastricht, when half the world was called Spain?

- The sword! - Said the boy with surprise -. I do not remember the blessed sword. If and I have
not.

- What do not you? - Asked Ms Maria ton amazement.

- No, ma'am. If no avail!

When we made the first attack in Menjíbar, I brought my little sword, and the first shots I
gave in a saw that cut herbs.

- Do not cut!

- No, ma'am.

It was a dull blade, full of graffiti, signs, here toads, snakes
there, and covered with mold from tip to handle.

What I used? Having no edged sword exchanged my back gave me a sergeant.

- And gave the sword, the sword !...-- said the Countess, rising from
his seat.

The lady was sublime in its indignation.

It seemed the picture of history, rising from his grave to demand
accountability from the contemporary generation.

- Yes, ma'am, I
gave the sergeant - said the boy, pulling a sword sheath bright, new,
and very sharp edge -.

If that did not serve more than a hindrance! Very nice, that if all full drawings of silver
and gold, but, mother, if not cut ... if it was full of rust ...
You see this sword: it has no sign, or heads, or ticks, or anything,
but shorter than is a pleasure.

We note that the Countess took a step toward his son, that her face is beautiful and venerable
contracted, distorted by anger, which extended his arms began to stammer with voiceover hit,
as if his tongue angrily hitting pretty hard to find a word, quite
strong for such a situation, we saw then bring both hands to his head,
back, hesitation, leaning on the shoulder of D. Paco, and finally
recover, stand up, calm down, look his son with contempt, pointing
to the street, where suddenly began to hear strong step drums, and
say:

- The army goes.

Run, run. When the war is over, reckoning. If you brave and come back alive, slapping will teach
you to respect your name. But if you are a coward, do not come back here.

We left in haste, and riding our horses, we occupy the ranks. At the point Santorcaz joined us. Don Paco
would not come out to say goodbye, because I was pierced with pain, to see - he said later - in
a week how twisted, the blow of bad company, the right tree so carefully raised in the peaceful
garden of his lessons.

The two ladies took to the windows and waving goodbye to us with the
same tissue they dried their tears.

Neither, nor the intended marriage, which was therefore ignorant, or devoted to the cloister,
which was already half a doctor, had understood the conversation I have just mentioned.

The poor things looked a world away and a new birth without realizing it.

XXII

It was dawn when the columns began to edge out of Bailen.

My regiment should leave the past, and while the artillery set in
motion and bodies foot, more than half an hour were formed out of
town, to the right of way waiting for the order of the march.

We went to Andujar, determined to take the offensive against French
army at the same time Brown was being attacked by the side of Marmolejo.

What Vedel's division, whose movements were key to this strategic problem? The Vedel's division
was in Andújar day 16, when the action occurred Menjíbar, previously I have described. Dupont
Knowing the Ligier-Belair defeat and death of Gobert, provided that Vedel Bailén march on, intending
to follow him the next day.

While this was going on Andújar, Ligier-Belair, to see us withdraw and cross the river, believed
that Reding's troops, together with those of Coupigny, trying to expand cautiously the left bank,
upstream, taking the road to Linares Guarromán to occupy after The Carolina and cutting in
front of the saw.

Confident of this, without making inquiries, pushed toward the North, thinking ahead to what
you thought was a stroke of genius general strategic Reding. Bailen comes to believing Vedel
find, and French who were there say to him: "Quia, insurgents have gone over the river and go
for Linares take the step of the mountain, but the general Ligier-Belair, who has understood
the game, has gone at once to occupy La Carolina, so that when the Spanish arrived, believing
have done a first-order motion, I find there. "Vedel hears this and says: "They have been to
cut off the saw to prevent removal and hunger kill us here and thirst. Then run to La Carolina.
Come, on. "Send a messenger to Dupont, saying: "Mr. Commander in Chief, the insurgents have
been to cut off the mountains. I run to La Carolina; you come after me and kill them. "

This happened at 17 and 18. Meanwhile, the insurgents retreated to the left bank as I said, faked
a move to Linares, but as night fell, the insurgents walk in a rush to Bailen. So in this village
told us, "passed by here Vedel this morning in the direction of Carolina, to prevent you to hew step
of the saw. Do not you went to Linares? "

No, we went to Andujar, to attack Dupont. Because of the movements torpísimos French generals, a large
part of the imperial power ran to the mountains, looking for a ghost. The insurgents, whom they
supposed to march towards La Carolina, were Bailen, up to Andújar. This is the true and accurate
situation of Spanish divisions and French on the night of 18 to 19
July.

We were going to fight with Dupont, Dupont only. But what if Vedel, knowing his time error, quickly
retreated to fall suddenly on our back during combat? This dire was likely offset by the fact that
certain French army Andújar would have to defend both of us and reserve,
which was threatening side Poniente.

Anyway, our position was risky so, wishing Reding ensure that the true distance that was Vedel,
had sent up the road from Menjíbar, the lieutenant of engineers D. José Jiménez, with instructions
to find out.

This brave officer, whose name is in history, was disguised as carrier, and a exhausting day
playing very well knew his commission, returning at night to say that Vedel had passed beyond
La Carolina.

So things were when we were preparing to leave at dawn Bailen 19. But we had planned everything
we had not planned to Dupont, very wary of that illusory occupation
of the mountains by the insurgents, had raised his country on the
same night, and silently stifling the sounds of his troops, leaving
the unfortunate and they cursed city of Andújar.

Near dawn, our heads available for the march column. If at first that evening, which was to extinguish a human
eye could scan from the heights of heaven what was going on that
long stretch of fields and olive groves extending to the edge of the
mountains, between them and the Guadalquivir, would have seen that
the Andujar obscure hamlet stood cautiously, slipping behind the houses,
a line of men and horses, that this row was going on the road stretching
in endless procession, and wound with a slow pace, with no noise and
no lights, would have seen how it was spreading the black stripe,
standing out at times on the white ground, sometimes confused with
the dark olive trees, while step by step, as if unwilling to be seen
and longed Dust off the noise of the carriages, would have seen that
going forward about three thousand men infantry, then a squad of horses,
after six guns, then a huge number cars, many, many cars, which occupied
two leagues behind the new car groups infantry and many generals,
after six guns, two regiments of armed horsemen; then four guns, and
finally another group of heads, followed by five hundred men on foot.
