 

When, alone and with his little wife, clasped his arms, did not experience any sensation human or
divine pleasure, but the harsh shock of two bodies hard and cold. She kiss on cheeks, and found
frost. In vain your spirit, thirsting for pleasures, furiously calling to nature. Nature in
him was something of pottery. He felt his heart beat as clock machinery remained Her thoughts,
but everything else was insensitive material.

The Princess was very pleased.

"What ails you, my love? - Pacorrito asked to see his expression of grief.

- I am supremely bored, girl - said the gallant, growing in confidence.

-
Because you'll get used.

Oh delicious moments! If durárais much, can not live.

- A delicious it calls your Highness! - Crumbs said .-- My God, how cold, how hard, how empty,
how stiff!

- You still have the human remnants, and the vice sense of the ravages
of man.

Pacorrito, moderate your transports or disrupt your bad example to
all the living muñequismo.

- Life, life, blood, heat, hide! - Crumbs
cried desperately, shaking like a insane .-- What is it happen to me?

"

The Princess shook in his arms, and kissed with red wax lips, exclaimed:

"You're
mine, mine for ever and ever."

At that moment was heard much noise and many voices saying, "Time, time!"

Twelve bells greeted the entrance of the New Year.

Everything disappeared suddenly in the eyes of Pacorrito: Princess,
castle, dolls, emperors, and was left alone.

XIV

He stood alone and in deep darkness.

She wanted to scream and had no voice. Wanted to move and had no movement.

It was stone.

Full of sorrow waited. The day finally came, and then Pacorrito was seen in its old form; but all of
a color, and apparently from the same subject: face, arms, clothing,
hair and even newspaper in his hand he held.

"Since I have no doubt - he said .-- I'm crying inside it as a brick.

He saw before him was a large glass with some letters backwards. On one side crowd figurines and
objects of whimsy with him.

"I'm in the window! ... Horror! "

A young man carefully took in hand, and after wiping the dust returned to put in place.

His Serene Highness saw that on the pedestal where it was placed, was a card with this number:
240 reais.

"My God, is a treasure that I'm worth.

This will at least comforted by one.

"

And people stopped by the outside glass to see the graceful sculpture yellow bars represent a newspaper
and matches. All praised the skill the artist, everyone was laughing watching the droll face and
figure of the Crumbs Chavacano, while he, in the depths of his callous mud, never ceased to cry
out with anguish:

"Snowman, snowman, for ever and ever!"

January 1879.

June [2]

I

In the garden.

May be angry, I know, but paying homage to the truth, it should tell in his face. Yes: the rule
of the flowers in our climate, it does not.

Rogue! What will it in the next life of those poor little souls whom left died of cold after
abrasive bothersome hot flashes? Instead, in June, if ever heats them with too much heat (because
it's sharp, llanote and takes to heart its obligations) also delicately flash fan, not to the
thunderous bellow from the northern winds; be fighting to have them in warm air, and cooling houses, all
with careful pulse and measure, give them fruitful sap, exquisite light, charitable support,
fresh and transparent waters.

Look at how this capitalist squanders its treasures, heat, light, freshness and air, moisture
and light. It would seem to many wealthy land if not employed all his fortune in do well.

Here are his works.

See the thoughts, their faces yellow and velvet caps. They look to one side and to another, swaying
in the delicious morning breath and shudder of joy contemplating so beautiful, so healthy, so
freeloaders. Black little eyes of these dwarfs, which, like of the lower angels, but have
no head and wings, look at us with evil rogue, and even seem to laugh, the very crooks, when the
wind makes them nod against each other, shaking in every sense of
the vast phalanx.

Some are pale and nodes, there are blood and chubby, some will permeate the cap down over
his eyebrows, others thrown back; These look like bald, of those who spend beards would say, and everyone
is happier than a lark, and his talk certainly unknown exclaim: "Comrades, is said to live.
Good bellyful of air, light and water are giving us! "

More trials are those little girls who call minutisas, because if the company have been of these rogues,
charmers know them form groups, clusters that seem cliques, and playing at the wheel without admitting
to any attacker, understand themselves. These beautiful star land that glazed the gardens
with his purple smiling, are distant relatives of the proud carnation. Nobody would say, because they
are so modest ...!

There it is. Does nobly folds the aromatic white turban and a thousand red curls! Health to Caliph
splendid, magnificent, sovereign. The heady poetry that it encourages the sybaritic springs,
to the fiery passions. Calaverón Ah!

... This cycle is so popular that even the poor poorest being raised, even in a broken pot. It seems
that inspires dreams, like opium, congratulations impossible. Its strong aroma is like a sensual
vision.

Not so the roses, which appear in this month maturity gorgeous. The May were girls, they are ladies,
and their cupped leaves open, soft, pure, subtle, there I do not know what masterful art world.
If God would grant them a puff of life, one no more, talk sure, but you better be silent.
Infinite grace, a delicacy unique, an ideal beauty, make this flower smile of Nature. When the
roses die the world gets serious.

Far away, perched on the wall or the props of the old wall looking for solitude, looking up,
looking forward to the quiet night, is the lover, the sentimental poet, the romantic jasmine,
in a word. Pale and small, throughout his life is soul. I play, and drops stem. Lives of feeling,
love the night, and if the music were aromas, jasmine serious the nightingale.

Fix your eyes on the graceful peonies. There is certainly need glasses
to see, as are bulky and presumptuous.

They do not deserve my sympathy these emphatic ladies all spend it
in rags, and if it is beyond doubt that they are beautiful, admire
it is that before that fall in love, and beauty is more of apparent
than real.

Nothing, nothing, here's something false: these ladies are painted.

Grande and it is also colorful.

We salute the magnolia, Indian princess who has been travel and stayed
in our climate.

Good health is not the lady, but what aristocratic what is this royal Amazon! Not content
to be fragrant and delicious flower, but wants be a tree, that is, man. See how riding in the high
branch, and bold see face to face the elm, a thousand flowers to brown and eucalyptus quixotic.

On
the ground track crowd of pages and footman, wallflowers, larkspur, gentezuela fine living of
flattery, the shade of the great lords, and the biblical lily dress Always Nazarene. Honeysuckle,
sullen and melancholic nostalgia for the disturbed, look at the field against their will where
they have brought them look to all sides anxious for guidance; be dragging logs, by the railing
by the stairs until she is play with his hand clenched around, goes, going climbing, climbing,
and looks to see horizons and free space and the illusion that it is free. This flower, like many
people, not has more than hands, and are white, thin, aromatic, but even gets his thin fingers
if it were to take something, never take anything.

Step to the people! The great republic of geraniums all full.

It seems that there is enough land for these red caps that are played with wonderful ease, and
grow as the mob last as ignorance, and resist cold and soles as poverty. So that nothing is missing,
until cacti, nasty bunch of buffoons, are decorated with colorful feathers on hats, others yellow
breeches are made, and some full charge Mephistopheles dressed as students in Carnival, and
have the nerve to wear them their bellied bodies. Others thin and warty, still with his hands
in his pockets, laughing and waving around stick with scarlet tassels.

But nobody makes these cartoons grace vegetables, flowers that seem to lizards, frogs that look
like plants, and live in isolation, without society, visited only the bees, which often come to
tell you a secret hearing.

If the violets had not breathed its last aroma in May, if the hyacinths were not and in the limbo
of his young chives, if dahlias, by contrast, not sleep yet in the back of their sweet, if
the petunias were not in lactation, and bells in the early stages,
if they had not also fallen Francesillo cold tomb of the mites, and
even strangers were not cutting their multiple gauze dancer to appear
in the fall, the picture would be complete June floral.

NOTE:

[2] it was written this article in the series description of the twelve
months of the year, published by the Spanish and American Illustration
in his Almanac of 1877.

II

In the field.

A monster, a giant, a figurehead, it seems man is but a scarecrow, breaststroke and gesturing
in the countryside. Sway is the official in charge of notifying the
sparrows that the wheat has been planted for them.

Ah! sparrows, the most rogue of creation the cast of crooks and thieves are more brazen than
the earth. When they made their nests, they got into houses to steal the ladies' tailors, lint
and rags, of course, with the greatest skill, made sheets, pillows and quilts for their young.
Now, these graceful bandits roam these worlds exercising their vicious raptor wheats and vegetables.
Everything they eat, they bite everything, everything has to taste like If required to give their
views on God as breeding at this time. If only they were as poppies, although they get everywhere
do not take anything ... How beautiful wheats! It rained so to time the pin has come out strong
and stout curd grains. Already being blond, and as continued dry weather and warm (for the rain,
San John does not give away wine and bread) you can soon put the
sickle.

The farmer did not take his eyes but to look at the sky. This is the critical month, the month
of hopes, the summary of the year, the additional amount of this
long account of costs and benefits which lasts twelve months.

The farmer is happy, and hopes to pay the tax, interest loan it received from the Jewish town, buying
new tools, home repair, given away by San Juan, and even save on the bag as they piece to five
dollars for what can occur.

Weeding the wheat and chickpeas, lettuce, beans, hilling potatoes, and all spring planting.
Looks at the fruit trees, to see how curdling. Cherries abound. As to the pear, it is unclear
to what will fixed point, but this noble family, which is extremely polite and attentive, sent
in this month as a special gift, a tasty pears, which we accepted with glee. San Juan brings
them, the sponsors and gives them their name. The same saint, coming with his usual punctuality,
has brought in excellent backpack figs, and is so fine and liberal,
says that next year will bring the same thing.

The farmer sulfur vineyards, and then the arrodriga earthing up, giving
them sticks to supportive and stretched his cramped arms.

Then engages in outdoor planting carrots, chervil, chicory variety,
Savoy cabbage, kale broccoli, Malpica, parsley and other many classes
that constitute the hierarchy ensaladesca, and between which there
are excellent people join us at the table and left to eat.

It also serves as an interesting and useful task.

Called to the sheep and says: "With the heat has come, ladies, for anything you need those winter
coats. "It is admirable the crowd livestock equipment! Ram is holding a Carriker with which envanecerían
many men, others are pure white luengo Russian cloak and thick wool
.-- "Come all that and the cool, young gentlemen - added the farmer
- that you tailor your dress provident free next year, while I have
to settle for waste your clothes.

"Ring the scissors and starts the operation of rude coats, overcoats and scarves. Until the flock
lord are left without their mantles, and the lambs lose their cardigans
astrakhan.

In the yard one day the hen appears very satisfied.

There, as God gives us to understand, with their cackling sound, it tells the master who already
has twenty servants rather than serve him. And it's good urchins breed: not required to put them
wet nurse, who already know they make a living. With little body covered with hair and some
shell yet acceded to such a part, are about his mother, amazed at
all: the sky, light, air, giving Rejoice for having managed to escape
from the dark where were imprisoned egg against all justice and reason.

The ducks are a pool, feel bubbling in his mind the genius of Columbus, and wham ... water.
When they return, the hen will take a reprimand for his daring, but they are so bad servants,
who a little while back to do the same.

Large right turkeys get red ties and Monterilla, and go to the field
in droves, not meet with anyone other than the family, because these
fools are Nobleman, and walk to the beat, seriously, saying bad words
and even casting a hollow discursazos, such as certain speakers, full
of apostrophes and epifonemas, but without the slightest sense.

Back in the woods, among the black oaks and screws, a lamentable scene occurs. Thousands ladies
angry buzz and sting, to defend the fruits of his wonderful industry. Are the more skilled
and more neat manufacturers of jams, syrups and candies that are in creation, and it is pitiful
that the other rich confections with so much zeal and work so neatly
formed in long days, come to seize an uncouth porter, who with his
hands washed (or dirty) appropriates the delicious nectar.

And do not try to excuse the shameless journal saying that honey is going to do drugs, and wax candles
to the saints ... "This is not allowed subterfuge. Back crook, thief, shirtless, demagogue.
But it's all useless.

Takes, takes our crop, our welfare, our wealth. Poor sisters ruined, what will we do to regain
the lost colony? "Start another.

Beyond .... But no longer hear that persistent crack of bruised leaves,
no longer perceive the sound of the voracious teeth.

Silence! ... Industrial land, manufacturers, workers, weavers, artisans, the entire world to its
knees. The silkworm has begun its cocoon.

III

In the kitchen.

As the meadows are so palatable to cattle, the meat of this month
is the best year.

The cow and the sheep do honor to his high popularity.

There are still plenty of strawberries and cherries come entangled
in each other, because they dislike go alone, that well-known defect
of the live genius that turns her cheeks flush.

Grapes and melons are not come yet, but we are commanded Toledo tasty apricots.

Peas, radishes and artichokes are presented in the square every day, accompanied some asparagus
late asking a thousand pardons for not coming earlier.

The new chickens, which has not only served to stews, enter, and with
great civility We demand that the ASEM mushrooms.

Recommend gallantly, upon presentation, to his cousins ducks and pigeons to their wild relatives.

A
gentleman, a hero, a lord, it appears, hat in hand, pleading that a mess Once in the pan,
remembering to note that it has to be big. It Tallud and obese; waterproof wearing white and pink skin
indicates that we have at home to an English gentleman. Mr Salmon is. Adelante!

After he appears, asking fire and oil and aromatic spices, the first sole, and recaditos affectionate
bring oysters, they can not come as the months have no r, and poke some tiny turbot and pajeles.

Who else gets? Mrs. eel, which comes in embassy of the fresh water ... Adelante!
IV

In religion.

For more haste given the poor thing can not get
to day 13. Next breath, fatigue, the naked feet covered with blood
from the bites of the brambles. The road has been preaching to the
birds and fish, and therefore could not come sooner. Besides, it great
sorrow on his hands, supporting a book, and the book is a divine Child,
is the world's Redeemer. It also brings a stick of white lilies.

Your
humble Franciscan habit is full of patches, a sign of poverty. Is
your face young, pale, ardent, feverish, because it inflames devotion
and sublime, mystical I love spiritualized.

Thenthe worried and sad
the number of couples who ask and can not give and the ill success
of those who gave generously last year. Be prepared to receive median
number of applications requesting more than a few boyfriends and demands
of good girlfriends. Ay! he is so good that is willing to give, and
give if any.

Hail, holy youth, innocence, the tender love, hopes
smiling! Hail, precious ornaments of the celestial cycles, young sublime,
great soldier of Christ, apostle of humanity, love of the poor, loving
host modest dwellings! Hail embodiment of simple faith, beliefs to
which they had pure peace and comfort ages all! By putting your bare
feet in the rustic altar of the poor, it seems that stays gloomy are
filled with blue light. Pink clouds surround you, and your finest
lilies emerge aromas that captivate the soul, making known the pure
atmosphere in the house of the righteous breathing.

Receive the holy
offerings of the poor, accepts the glare of those lights oil that
pale between the streams of divine clarity you bring with you and
listens to the entreaties, to the recommendations and requests made
pure in heart. 

Some people are so wicked, so ungrateful laborers
(that I've seen), when San Antonio does not agree to the provision
of boyfriends, you turn your back on the altar, placing face to the
wall, and I know you got a girl desperately tying in well a rope around
his neck, but these exceptions do not undermine irreverent and sacrilegious
general devotion and popularity of the saint in Padua, ideal figure
of Catholicism, and one of the beings more perfect and less imitated,
while he walked in the flesh for the land.

Behind him is another
no less great. Has stopped administering the first sacrament, but
already there: just do not like to go to day 24, and not a single
year has missed usual. Receive him as to San Antonio, the host buxom
basil, a humble plant, fragrant, smelling of orchards rather than
garden fresh and very tiny. Some are as nuts, in tiestecitos size
of almonds.

Acompáñanle heralds some donuts called Aunt Javiera,
and his step, floor is paved with donuts. White leaves of the tree
of Paradise embalm the atmosphere around him. All season flowers come
to light its pretty funny people groups are called classes. Matas
decorate various houses, and altars seem to turn green and covered
with vegetation