 In vain he and Don Rosendo and friends
who used to come to Tejada, invented a thousand excuses to make excursions. While not refusing
to face also accompany him to the deceptions came to stay forever at home, where descaecía visibly.
His uncle, Don Melchor often came to see him and advised him who were to travel for a while. Did not
refuse it, but I always postponed, pretending not in good health. Don Rosendo, with the advice
of M. de las Cuevas and several other friends, decided to move to Sarrió to see if the society
of his friends encouraged the young man a bit. They left all the calculations failed. Gonzalo was
allowed to carry the town without comment. But he put even more effort to isolate, to live
retired social intercourse. Left only at dawn, and gave some rides for the tip of the Pawn, watching
the sea with ecstatic eyes, which once took an expression of anguish that will surely be sorry who's
looked. As the spring began to warm, and the village awakened from sleep, retired to hurry home.

Why not let a Sarrió, scene of his misfortune, and would spend at
least one season in Madrid, Paris or London?

This was the question that made all the neighbors villa. Nobody was right to answer satisfactorily.
Nor was it easy for that to happen. Are very few know the secret origin explained, the ultimate
root of human actions. Some because they do not stand in psychology, judging useless, others
endowed with understanding subtle and circumspect, because I take the opportunity to scrutinize
the phone only concerned about uncovers no feelings that magical box, and desires, and hopes
and contradictions that is called the human heart. Gonzalo feel shame if they told him he was
not going to Sarrió not away from the atmosphere that enveloped his wife, who covered the insults
in secret and affected to despise the world! And yet nothing more true. Staying in that house,
it seemed that even they had not completely broken the ties that bound him to it. Beings around him
were his flesh and blood, still loved her, even if guilty, could not reviling in his presence.
Ventura had left in the rooms, furniture, part of his being. On the dresser lay ointment jars
and scents she used, half-consumed; on racks hung some of their coats and hats. Its funny
picture, her blonde head dazzling, looked like it would look behind the curtains. The air was balmy
even with their usual perfume. One husband, so cruelly outraged, not wanting to realize it, breathed
with delight the encouragement of his wife, and lived in the shadow of his life. Still more, living
in the hope of forgiveness.

This did not know anyone ... he himself perhaps in a full ... No one but Cecilia, whose love divining
eyes, they read the vague thoughts that crossed your mind of his
brother.

This expressed a preference for her so affectionate, such enthusiasm and reverence, it was very
easy to confuse with love. All companies, until their uncle, bother least of it. Although it was
delivered to a painful meditation, and the tears ran down her cheeks blanching, the appearance of Cecilia
in his room, acted as a soothing, easing their pain. Yielded to their advice with respect, and
let himself be guided and pampered by her as a sick child. When it took to go in his room, got impatient
and gave loving complaints the same as a tired and wounded lover of love. When he entered, his
eyes never left for a moment, as if they were under the influence of a charm or fascination. Those
eyes expressing deep affection, gratitude, admiration, respect, enthusiasm, expressing all ...
but love. Cecilia read it well. I could not watch without feeling the same painful prick the
heart, the same bitter drop of gall on the lips. His spirit, always serene, turbábase for a
moment, and appeared sometimes cold, sometimes irritable and enigmatic, with great surprise Gonzalo
pain and was trying to cheer her up. Soon he succeeded. The thought that, fell into his brain
like a stone in a lake, stirring the waters. A few moments later Calm returned to his spirit.
Remained pure and calm as the lake.

One day, suddenly entering the room of his brother, he found himself examining a revolver.

Seeing it tried to hide in the drawer of the table that was open and turned red.

- What were you doing?

- Nothing in this box to search for papers,
I found myself with a gun that I no longer remember I had, and I was
watching.

Cecilia did not believe a word. Since experienced some concern that forced her to watch more than
before.

It took two months. The unfortunate young man, but persisted in the same secluded life dark, showed
some vague signs of greening. Once in a while out riding. Had spoken to his father to make
a trip to Italy, which still did not know. Force that made up the sap back to his being withered,
was a sweet thought, as sweet as embarrassing, carefully hiding around the world. However, one
afternoon when I was chatting affectionately with his sister, after many detours, and turning
red to the ears, asked Ventura. What was it news? Cecilia replied coldly with few words as possible.
Poor Gonzalo! If I knew that this woman traitor by those who wondered, Far from being repentant, churned
furiously against his family, covers all of insults, threatening to be delivered as the first
man to come out of the prison scandal to be arrogant and insolent language to the superior of the convent!

Since
that day, lost and shortness, often asked for it, like to lie in
conversation, without ever made him give up this dry tone that Cecilia
would answer, and the speed with which change the subject.

What Don Rosendo feared by Ocaña letters sent to him, came to an end.

One day, superior of the Ventura advised that he had fled to asylum in company by all accounts,
the Duke of lathes. "The great humanitarian," as he called the Faro On one occasion, he received
the news with stoic courage. Indeed, what was that purely worth individual afflicted him, compared
with universal pain, with walking slow and sure of humanity to their destinations? In those days
I had just read a famous French author booklet entitled The Crowd. He dazzled his brains scrambled
with its great historical synthesis, which helped him not a little to withstand the blow. Sought,
however, that his son does not hear the news. I had the same confidence in elevation its spirit
and scope of his views. Some days it was hidden. Ran after people not knowing who bring her back.
Gonzalo, who every morning first thing was by Saloncillo, read in a press as infamous as hypocritical
Sarrio Young. "Circle of the species population - said - that a woman, the protagonist of a
drama loving happened not long ago, has eloped with her lover's haven where his family was
incarcerated. Feel that this rumor is confirmed by directly affecting people well known and
esteemed in society Sarrio. "

Gonzalo still felt something was about to tear it tore into the chest. Left drop the paper. Smiling
nervously, and with strange high-pitched voice, he went to Don Feliciano
Gomez, who was the only person there:

- I know you think the z. ..

My wife has run away with her pimp, huh?

Don Feliciano looked surprised.

Although he was a man who understood little smile, seeing him smile
that way was overwhelmed, and he replied sadly:

- Yes, Gonzalito,
yes.

I knew that you had not yet passed the ultimate ... In truth, after of what happened, this final
blow should not take you by surprise ... Boto brake, you should assume
where he had to stop.

- And to me, what? - Cried the unhappy young
woman with the same smile, showing his body an exaggerated concern
.-- That escapes ... Good!

... God blessed Go ... Nothing I have already to do with it ... Ah! If the law would allow me
to marry! ... Not happen a month without it ... And why not, we will see, and why should I not
be able to do?

... Anyway, if I marry for life, temporarily marry me ... I will take around a good girl, huh,
Don Feliciano? And walk with God ... It will be the end of the one p. .. profession, while
my wife is a hobby ...

As he spoke these ugly words, circled the room, took off his hat, shrugged and made other gestures
extravagant. Finally laughed.

- Look, Gonzalillo - Feliciano said .-- just spent a bald ... but
times will come better.

After the bad always comes good. The things of the world must be taken with cachaça my boy. Growing
up in disgust and bile in the stomach, what is achieved? ... Here I am me. Last month lost a boat
... Everyone came to comfort me thinking he was desperate. I answered: It is true that I lost Juanito,
but, if he had lost Carmen, would not it be much worse? Same thing could lose one another,
because they were both at sea. You have been a disappointment: well ... but you have health.
Would not it be worse also you to put yourself sick? You have to think all my boy. Health is the
first ... You eat well, take good shots, and go ahead! than others and forget ...

Gonzalo out of the Club without saying goodbye, leaving the good Don
Feliciano with the word in the mouth.

At home himself familiar with Don Rosendo Ventura drain. Against what everyone presumed, not made
a deep impression. On the contrary, from that day on it a trend señalóse to cheer, and participate
in social commerce, not surprisingly, left in the population. Began visiting the homes of
friends, to appear in the cafe, walking through the streets, to chat, discuss. He did not talk
about leaving. Until, with great astonishment of the village, one of the dances that took
place in the Lyceum, danced all night as a pollastre that pisase the room first.

However, Cecilia was very restless. Animation that his brother was so untimely, more like a nervous
breakdown. Above all, the strange smile, like a grimace, that was falling from the lips to
read the newsletter of the Young Sarrio, made her shudder at times.

Then came what was natural. After that insane excitement, wine, after a few days a deep, dark
depression. He spent three without leaving your room, not just dish test some of which Cecilia
had, and what is even worse, unable to sleep. With open eyes and ecstatic, he spent hours and
hours lying in bed, looking at darkness. On the third night, at about three light lit, dressed
and started writing a long letter to his uncle. Then he wrote another one with about Cecilia. Closed
and placed on the table first, so that they look suddenly pulled out a cigarette, lit it in the
light spark plug, and began pacing the room. Before he threw his cigarette end. He opened the
desk drawer and pulled out the revolver which he kept there. Brought to light saw that was
downloaded, which does not fail to surprise. He was almost certain to have loaded For a month,
more or less. He searched the box of capsules and not found. How very strange! He soon remembered
that Cecilia had been with him in the hand, and a sweet smile sad and drew on his lips. He went
to get their hands on guns. Found them equally discharged. The cartridges were missing from their
site. He remained motionless and pensive long time. Then, as if awakening from a dream, he
shook his head and sighed. He put on his hat, opened the door and down the stairs with great
secrecy. Passing the door of the main floor, hit her ear. He listened a moment, the face haggard,
his hair bristling. He had clearly heard the voice of his wife calling him from inside. After the
hallucination, continued to fall, opened the outer door with the key hanging pin, and hit
the streets.

Had not yet dawned, but in the East seemed a faint precursor of the
day clearly.

The morning was cool. A water falling from the sky fog menudísima marina. Without hesitation
he went the dock. He climbed to the second wall and looked at the sea, whose horizon at that time
was not very long, because of the fog. The previous days had blown the northwest, and had curled
and stirred up the bottom. Big waves spreading swollen from afar their riding huge roar and
crashed against the front of the Pawn, spitting the foam to the top. The boy's eyes encountered
a tender that was entering the port and danced like a walnut shell on the waves. That entry was
interested of course. Continued every twist and turn with eager attention, as if it will be
something. After fourth time, when it was moored to the dock, he felt the spur new thinking. Sighed
and whispered, "Come." And went on, rubbing against the railing of the waist wall. At a certain
place, a wave stronger than the other bathed him entirely spray. He gave her bathroom unannounced
good impression, we cooled the skin. Waited in the same place for a while, to see if another
equally strong, but not wine. And undertook gear again. When he was at the end of the pier,
lay face down on the parapet and watched with grim fixity waves arrived. I was in the same place,
was some years, had conversation with his uncle to inform him that he left Cecilia and he married
Ventura. The words of the old, harsh, angry, sounded again in his ears. "What reason was my uncle!"
- He thought, without looking away from the sea.

- Bah! - Murmured after a few moments - if a hundred times I saw you in that case, a hundred times
would do the same. There are things fatal.

I take this woman in the blood as a poison, and can only the last drop out .-- He spent another
moment thinking. The sea water that had bathed and the sky was falling constantly, we chilled
to the bone. The morning was dirty Cinderella. It was, no, that beautiful night had fallen
on his face also after talk to your uncle. Then the radiant beauty of the sky, studded with stars,
the clean glass of water, where Cabrillo moonlight, the soft breeze playfully they spoke a language
of death, yes, but sweet, contained and intimate. It was a friendly voice that invited him
to rest. But now I heard was a cry of despair, a threat: "Come, vente. Death is very sad, but life
is sadder still. "

- Conclude - said, raising his head. He moved the body, stretched
out his arms.

At that time thought that self-preservation would make him swim safely, and stopped. He looked at
all parties seeking some weight. Their eyes met a looper quechemarín lying beyond down in the
first spring. Fell for her, the knife cut a piece of rope from a boat it is tied up, lifted his
arms up the stairs athlete and a gymnast who would to show to the public of the enormous power of
their muscles. Once up, tied the rope neck. He stood on the parapet, and embraced the anchor was
thrown overboard. His body colossus opened a big gap there, which was closed immediately. Extinguished
the deep sea that spark of life, like many others, with relentless indifference.

A sailor who saw him from afar, he ran to the spot shouting

- Man Overboard!

Another three or four of the next boats followed.

Within minutes the formation of a group of twenty or thirty at the
top of the wall.

- Who was that?

Did you know? - Asked who had seen him.

- I think it was Don Gonzalo.

-
Does the mayor?

- Yes.

- It would be great, would be fine ... Reterroías
women!

The new spread instantly through the town.

He went to the dock a crowd of people. Two men in a boat oar crossed with a long background, without
finding the body of unfortunate young man. After he stumbled. He brought a hook, and pulling
him out afloat at the same time as Don Melchor, haggard, agitated, no hat, arrived at the pier
the terrible news release.

- Son of my soul - the poor old man shouted over the water to see the body of her nephew. Her
knees buckled and fell fainting into the arms of those who accompanied him.

The body of the suicide spread on the dock while waiting in court. That show was deeply impressed
all bystanders, among them were people of the two rival camps.

After the judge arrived and instructed the due diligence, placed on a stretcher the body, and
transported him to his house, because Don Rosendo, who knew the story, as claimed. It was a sad
procession through the streets to the town.

Neighbors peered from balconies, pale, restless, with sadness in his face. Gonzalo enjoyed
general sympathies.

Don Rosendo, possessed of sharp pain, he would not see the political
corpse of his son.

He shut himself in his room, but decided that is placed in the best room of the house on a table
covered velvet, which bring her flowers and wreaths everywhere, and prepare a funeral sumptuous.

Cecilia,
one of those heroic efforts that were seasoned to do about his soul and body, lock learned his
sentence at the bottom of the heart. Veíasela livid, yes, but quiet, having the house you need
to receive the body of his brother. When she arrived, she helped to put on the site after it
was shrouded.

Showered him with flowers, lit the candles, decorated the room with black crape. After the
body ruled that a Velascos Sister of Charity in her company.

They left him alone at last. They prayed on their knees for a long time. When they finished their
prayer, Cecilia asked the nun who went to the kitchen to give orders so that you do him, because
he was faint.

As the nun left, alzose strongly. And he took scissors, cut a lock of hair the head of his brother,
who hid in the breast.

Cut after his other, and trembling and agitated, put it in his hands
cross the body.

       Then he looked for a moment.

Y head down, covered his face with kisses inanimate.

The first and last that gave him.

The wife, the only real man's wife was unable to resist so much pain and fell to the ground
unconscious.

FIN

* * * * *

= WORKS OF PALACIO VALDES =

= The Master Octavio =.-- One vol.

= Martha and Mary =.-- One vol.

Translated into French, English, Swedish, Russian and tchèque.

= The romance of a patient =.-- One vol.

Translated into French and tchèque.

Water = strong = (novels and paintings) .-- A volume.

Translated into French, English, German, Dutch, Swedish and tchèque.
Spanish edition with notes and vocabulary in English. Edit Spanish
with English notes for the study of Spanish in England and the United
States of America.

= Riverita =-- A volume. Translated into French.

=
Maxi = (second part of Riverita) .-- A volume. Translated into English.

=
The Fourth =.-- One vol. Translated into French, English and Dutch.

La
Hermana San Sulpicio = =.-- One vol. Translated into French, English,
Dutch and Swedish.

= =.-- A foam volume. Translated into English.

=
=. Faith A volume .-- Translated into French, English and German.

=
El Grandee =.-- One vol. Translated into French and English.

= The
origin of thought =.-- One vol. Translated into French and English.

=
The nice people of Cadiz =.-- One vol. Translated into Dutch.

= The
Joy of Captain Ribot =.-- A Vol. Translated into French, English,
Dutch and Swedish. Spanish edition with notes and vocabulary in English.

=
The Lost Village =.-- One vol.

= Tristan, or pessimism =.-- One vol.
Translated into English.

Portraits = literary = (Speakers of the
Ateneo, Spanish novelists, New journey Parnassus) .-- A volume.

=
Papers of the Angelic Doctor =.-- Translated into German