 

But suddenly awoke with a shudder, and he thought he heard a voice
saying:

- Praise you, Lord, through Sister Moon and the stars that
have formed in the sky clear, beautiful and precious!

The monk rose from his hard bed and stood in prayer, until, through the window his poor cell, saw
pale the moon and the stars.

The next day he discharged his duties with the utmost accuracy, but
the brother Gilberto, the novice noticed the sadness in his face,
and often looked prior to the refectory.

When found, at last, in the solitude of the Scriptorium, took the brush with a trembling hand
and, on the stretched piece of vellum, wanted to play again highlights
the missal the monastery and the Book of Hours of Queen of France,
but nothing could be achieved.

His drawings resembled the drawings of a child.

He dropped the brush, and his tonsured head resting on his arms, began
to sob bitterly.

Her tears fell upon the parchment, staining it and making pitifully more blots on his ill-fated
designs.

Fray Baltasar many days spent in that bitter mood! Many sleepless night eyes! The daily chores
of convent life could not make him forget his pain: or verses from the Psalms and the prayers of
the Office. One day he went to a meadow, near the monastery, which grew large number of flowers
of various species, and these perhaps reminded him that he had so often drawn, idealized, in briefs
and missals more tears of pain as his eyes clouded.

Fray Baltasar long been given his deep sorrow and completely forgotten about the monastic rule,
and suddenly seemed soft light enlighten his mind, and fell on his knees cried

- Oh, and miserable pygmy race of mortals! Do not you understand, Baltasar sinner, if God robbed
you of your art has been recreated just because you admire your work and pride it? Oh, vanity
of vanities!

After fulfilling the penance imposed on him by the prior having broken the rule, entered his
cell to try slight break. Soon, a knock at matins and the monk wanted to get out of his hard couch,
his eyes clouded over, and felt faint ... And his life was slowly fading ....

While the monks buried the corpse gave Baltasar in the crypt of the
monastery, scriptorium walked prior to collecting the work of the
illuminator, assuming it unfinished.

                         But he found the record in parchment lined with exquisite and delicate
task, the most wonderful, no doubt, that traced the Fray Baltasar
brushes.

THE PARROT OF Huichilobos

MARIANO SILVA

When the Duke of Ayamonte librarian and archivist named me its illustrious
house, I thought my life was going to slip quietly in the basement
of his palace at Madrid, and even saw on distance the publication
of several works of historical nature, which for many years coveted,
and which, however, remain unpublished, for the most part still within
my inkwell.

Quite the opposite of what I expected, the tycoon turned out to be a researcher tireless, and
while he spent long hours exploring the archives of the Court, I often sent in search of documents
to the provinces.

Thus it was that last summer I gave my weary bones in the historic city now dead Alcalá del
Río, rather than leave, as I wished to spend the summer at the coast. Was I on the eve of marriage,
and although the salary he enjoyed was not short, not wasted any means of savings. So I did not
want to stay in the main hotel town, which despite being bad was expensive, but looked more
modest housing. After to go to several eateries, I decided to take the room at home gave me a certain
widow, by very small stipend. It was a humble part, no doubt, but clean as a whistle, and what
attracted me was the cheerful aspect of your balcony. As I am ignorant in botany, I can not say exactly
which plants are which so profusely adorned, but I think those that
grew in the old pot of oil were azaleas, and I'm sure had hydrangeas
in a barrel, geraniums chipped in several pots, and "forget-me-not"
in a tin of sardines