 The rear wheels had crushed a fragile barrier.

Desnoyers remained in his seat, crouched, stunned, closed his eyes.

The horror will suggested their own destiny. Where would you wore that lieutenant? ...

In the square he saw the town hall that burned, the church was but a shell of stone bristling with
tongues of fire. The houses of wealthier neighbors had their doors and windows broken with an
ax. Inside, the soldiers waved following a methodical swing. Entered empty-handed and there were
laden with furniture and clothing. Others, from the upper floors throwing objects, accompanying
their shipments with jokes and laughter. Suddenly had to leave run. The fire broke out instantly,
with violence and rapidity of an explosion. Followed in the footsteps of a group of men carrying
boxes and metal cylinders.

Someone which was designated the front building, penetrating through its broken windows and pads
liquid jets, the catastrophe occurred in a primer.

Saw emerge from a burning building two men who looked like two piles of rags, carried dragged
by several Germans. Blue stain on their coats distinguished a pale faces, eyes wide open for martyrdom.
His legs dragged on the ground, hovering between the strips of shredded red pants. One of them still
retained the kepi. Expelling blood through various parts of their bodies: they were leaving
behind the white meandering the dressing waste.

Injured were French, who had stayed behind in the village no strength to continue the retreat.
Perhaps it belonged to the group, to be cut, tried a local resistance.

Desiring to establish the truth, looked at the officer beside him
and tried to speak.

But this restrained him, "Franco-shooters in disguise, they will receive their punishment." The
German bayonets sank into their bodies.

After a head fell on the head of one of them ... Y the blows were repeated with dull hammering
on the capsules bone crunching breaking.

Again the old man thought in his own fate. Where are you wearing this lieutenant through so
many visions of horror? ...

They reached the outskirts of town, where the Dragons had set up their roadblock. The carts were still
there, but to one side of the road. They got off the car. Saw a group of Officers dressed in
gray, with the hull sheathed, equal in all to each other. He who had led to this site stood rigid,
with one hand on the hood, talking to a soldier who was a few steps in front of the group. Looked
at this man and he also looked at him a little blue eyes and drives
that pierced his thin face wrinkled.

Should be the general. The arrogant and penetrating eyes covered him from head to foot. Don
Marcelo had a premonition that his life depended on this test.

A bad idea that crosses his brain, a cruel caprice of his imagination, and was lost. He moved
his shoulders General and said a few words frowned.

Then mounted in a car with two of his assistants, and the group disbanded.

The cruel old found endless uncertainty of the times it took for the
official return to his side.

- His Excellency is very good - he said
-.

Could shoot him, but forgives him.

And yet you say that we are savages! ...

With the thoughtlessness of his contempt, he explained that he had brought up to believe there
that will be shot. The general wanted to punish the principal residents of Villeblanche and
he had considered on its own initiative that the owner of the castle
should be one of them.

- The military duty, sir ... Required by the
war.

After this excuse resumed compliments to His Excellency. I was going to stay in the property Don
Marcelo, and this will spare their lives.

Should thank him ... Then again to tremble with anger her cheeks. Noted some bodies lying beside
the road. Were Hulan the four bodies covered with coats and showing some of them below huge soles
of his boots.

- A murder! - Cried -.

A crime that they are going to pay dearly for the culprits!

His anger made him consider it as a fact unprecedented and monstrous
death of four soldiers, as if war should only drop the enemy, remaining
intact life of his countrymen.

Came a group of infantry commanded by an officer.

By opening their ranks saw Desnoyers between gray uniforms rudely pushed several compatriots. Iban
with torn clothing. Some had blood on his face and hands. The recognition was one by one as the lining
next to a wall, twenty yards of the picket the mayor, the priest,
ranger, some rich neighbors whose houses had been burned.

They were going to shoot ... To avoid any doubt, the lieutenant continued his explanation.

- I wanted to see this yourself. Should learn. So better appreciate the kindness of His Excellence.

None
of the prisoners spoke. Had exhausted their voices in protest useless. His whole life focused
on his eyes, looking around in amazement ... And could coldly kill them without hearing their
protests, without admitting the evidence of his innocence!

The certainty of death suddenly gave almost all of them a noble serenity. Useless to complain.
Just a rich peasant, the village famous for their greed, desperate whimpering, repeating: "I do
not want to die ... I do not want to die. "

Trembling and with eyes full of tears, Desnoyers hid behind his relentless companion. All I knew,
had all struggled, now repenting of their old quarrels.

The mayor was in the front of the red spot of a great rendering. On his chest heaved a rag tricolor:
the municipal band, which had been made to welcome the invaders and
they were ripped.

The priest stood his body small and round, trying to cover a look
of resignation on victims, perpetrators, the whole earth and sky.

Seemed thicker.

The black sash, broken by the violence of the soldiers, abdomen was free and floating his
cassock.

The silver mane dripping blood, the red drops splashing White collar.

To see progress on the field of implementation unsteadily because
of his obesity, a Wild laughter cut the tragic silence.

Groups of unarmed soldiers who had come to witness the torture the old man greeted with laughter.
"A cure death !...»

Fanaticism vibrated the religious wars in their mockery.

Almost all of them were Catholic or Protestant zealous, but only
the priests believed in his country.

Outside Germany, everything was negligible, even religion itself.

The mayor and the priest changed place in line, seeking.

They offered each other the center of the group with a formal courtesy.

- Here, Mr. Mayor, this is the place: at the head of all.

- No, after you, Father.

Discussed last time, but in this supreme moment was to be transferred over, wanting kowtowing each
other.

They joined hands instinctively, facing the firing squad, coming down
their guns in a rigid horizontal row.

Behind her cries rang.

"Farewell, my children ... Goodbye, life ... I do not want to die ... !...» Not want to die

The
two men felt the need to say something, you close the page of its existence with a statement.

-
Viva la Republica! - Shouted the mayor.

- Vive la France! - Said the priest.

Desnoyers believed that both had shouted the same thing.

Two vertical rose above their heads: the priest's arm in the air drew a sign the saber squad
leader flashed while livid ... Dry thunder, resounding later followed by several explosions.

Don Marcelo felt sorry for poor humanity to see the grotesque forms
it takes in the moment of death.

Some collapsed as half-empty bags, others bounced on the ground as well as balls, some gymnast
jumped with his arms held high, falling back or face down, in an attitude of swimmer. Leaving
the lot saw how human legs contorted by the tremors of agony ... Soldiers moved with the same
gesture of hunters who go to collect their pieces. In the throb of the members scrambled rose a white
mane and a weak hand that was trying to repeat his sign. Several throws and kicks in the livid
lot of blood dripping ... And the last tremor of life were erased forever.

The officer had lit a cigarette.

- When you like - said to Desnoyers with ironical politeness.

Mounted on the car to cross Villeblanche, returning to the castle. Fires increasingly numerous
and the corpses lying in the streets and the old was not impressed.

He had seen so much! What could alter and their sensitivity? ... I wanted to leave the village
as before, in search of peace of the fields. But the fields had disappeared in the invasion:
soldiers everywhere, horses, guns. Groups at rest destroyed his contact their surroundings. The launch
battalions had overrun all the roads, noisy and automatic like a machine, preceded by the fifes
and drums, tossing from time to when to cheer, his cry of joy: "Nach Paris!"

The castle was also marred by the invasion. Had greatly increased the number of their guardians during
the owner's absence.

He saw a regiment of infantry encamped in the park.

Thousands of men under them trees waved their food prepared in kitchens trailers. The beds in
his garden, exotic plants, carefully sanded Avenues and swept, all broken and worn by the flood
of men and beasts and vehicles.

A chief boasting a distinctive sleeve cuff of the military administration issued orders as
if he were the owner. Neither deigned to fix his eyes on the next civil marching a lieutenant with
shrinking of prisoner. The stables were empty.

Desnoyers saw her conducted last cows out to the shepherds sticks with helmet. Expensive players
were slaughtered everyone in the park as mere beasts of slaughter. In poultry and pigeon was not
a single bird.

The stables were full of emaciated horses that were given a weariness
before the manger full.

The grass is sprinkled liberally stored by the floods, largely lost before being used. The horses
of several squadrons would released through the fields, destroying
at your kick channel, the edges of the slopes, smoothing of the soil,
all work of many months.

The dry wood burning in the park a flared useless.

Carelessness or mischief, someone had applied the fire to their stacks. The trees, the bark dry by
the heat of summer, rustling when licked by the flames.

The building was also occupied by a crowd of men who were due to this boss. Left their windows
open to see a continuous flow through the rooms. Desnoyers heard shock that reverberated in
his chest.

Oh, the historic mansion! ... The general was about to be installed in it, after having examined
the banks of the Marne the work of the pontoon, which established several steps for the troops.
His owner afraid of him speaking. Feared breaks up the bedroom doors closed, she wanted to
go in search of keys for delivery. The commissioner did not listen: it was ignoring its existence.
The lieutenant said with a kindness shear:

- No need, no bother.

And he went to join his regiment. But before he lost sight Desnoyers the officer wanted to
give him advice.

Stay in the castle, outside of it could take a spy, and was already aware of how quickly solved
their affairs soldiers emperor.

He could not stay in the garden watching from afar his home. The Germans
who came and mocked him coming.

Some marched to meet him in a straight line, as if he saw it, and
had to be turned away for not by the mechanical feed and rigid.

Finally took refuge in the flag of the concierge. The woman watched in amazement, dropped into
a seat your kitchen, discouraged, look at the floor, suddenly aged to lose energy that encouraged
a robust old age.

- Ah, sir ... Poor lord!

Of all the attacks of the invasion, the most unheard of for the poor woman was contemplating
the refugee in his own home.

- What will become of us! - Moaned.

Her husband was often called by the invaders. Attendees of His Excellency, installed in the basement
of the castle, claiming to inquire the whereabouts of the things
they could not find.

Of these trips became humiliated, his eyes filled with tears. His forehead the black mark
of a blow, his jacket was torn. Were traces of a feeble attempt opposition during the absence of
the owner to start stripping the Germans stables classrooms.

Millionaire felt bound by misfortune to a people hitherto perceived with indifference. Much appreciated
the loyalty of this sick man and humble. He moved the interest of the poor woman, who looked
as if the castle itself. The presence of The daughter brought to his memory the image of Chichi.
Had passed it without regard to its transformation, seeing the same thing when accompanied
with little dog trot, Mademoiselle Desnoyers on excursions through
the park and surrounding area.

Now she was a woman, thinness the last boom, noting the first through feminine in his body
for fourteen years. The mother would not let go of the flag, fearing the soldiers, who invaded
everything with its current overflowing, seeping into the open places,
breaking the barriers hindered in its path.

Desnoyers silence left
her desperate to confess that he was hungry. He was ashamed of this
material requirement, but the emotions of the day, death, close-up,
the woods yet threatening, awakened in him a nervous appetite. The
fact that it was a miserable in the midst of their wealth and could
not have anything in his domain further increased their need.

- Poor
sir - said the woman again.

And watched with amazement the millionaire
eating a piece of bread and a triangle of cheese, All he could find
in your home. The certainty would not get other food for more searching,
made Don Marcelo continue tormented by his appetite. Having conquered
an enormous fortune, to go hungry at the end of his life! ... The
woman, as though divining their thoughts, moaning, raising her eyes.
From early morning the world had changed its course, everything seemed
upside down. Oh, war! ...

In the rest of the afternoon and part of
the night was getting the news owner the concierge brought him after
his visits to the castle. The general and numerous officers occupied
rooms. There was only one door closed, they were all wide, with rifle
butts and axes. Gone were many things, the doorman did not know how,
but had disappeared, perhaps broken, perhaps stolen by those who came
and went. The head of Cuff went from room to room examining everything,
dictating in German to a soldier writing. Meanwhile, the general and
his men were in the dining room. Drink plenty and consulted maps spread
out on the floor. The poor man had to descend into the caves in search
of the best wines.

At nightfall, it was a movement of this human
tide flow fields covering out of sight. Had been established several
bridges over the Marne and the invasion resumed their advance. The
regiments were put up by throwing her scream with excitement: "Nach
Paris! "Those who stayed to continue the next day were settled in
houses ruined or outdoors. Desnoyers heard singing. Under the glare
of the first stars soldiers were grouped as choruses, their voices
form a choral solemn and sweet of religious gravity. Floating above
the trees a red cloud in the shade for more intense. It was the reflection
of the people, still aflame. In the distance, other farm fires and
villages cut off the night with their blinking bloody.

The old man
ended up falling asleep in the bed of their caretakers, with heavy,
brutalizing sleep Fatigue, smooth or nightmares. Fell and fell into
a dark hole and never ending. Upon awakening, he imagined that he
had slept only a few minutes