 The reception was triumphant. San Jose's son returning from such heroic exile! ...
Should not be less enthusiastic than other neighboring parishes, Verros hosting its large entertainment.
And they went to the port of Ibiza, the day of arrival steam, distant relatives of Ferrer, who
were half the town, and all the rest of the neighborhood out of pure patriotism. Even the mayor made
the trip, followed by his secretary, to conserve the sympathies of their administrations. The
lords of the city protesting with indignation these barbaric and immoral habits of the peasantry,
while men, women and kids stormed the vapor, each anxious to be the first to shake hands with
the hero.

Pepet remembered the Verro return to San Jose. He had also figured in the procession, long line
of wagons, horses, donkeys and pedestrians, as if the entire people emigrate. In all Ventorros
taverns and the way he stopped the procession, and the big man was gifted with jugs of wine, pieces
of figola sobreasada and cups, herbal liqueur from the island. Admired his new suit - a suit
of man who'd bought out of prison - were amazed in silence of the ease of his manner, air of
good prince who welcomed their former friends, protecting them with the gesture and glance. Many
envied him. What he learns a man leaving the island! There is no way to run the world! ... The
old blacksmith's overwhelmed all with the superiority of their memories during the trip to San
Jose. Then in the space several weeks, the gathering in the village tavern, in the late afternoon, it was
interesting. Verre's words echoed from home to home for all the scattered hamlets of paddock,
watching every peasant something honorable to his parish in the adventures
of the neighbors.

The Ferrer never tired of praising the beauty of the institution which
had been eight years.

Forget the anger and grief suffered there. All through that saw the love to disfigure the memories
past.

He had not lived, like some unhappy, in a penal institution of the plains of La Mancha, where
you have to raise the water on the back of a man, suffering the torments of an arctic cold. Nor
had been in the prisons of old Castile, where the snow whitens and patios hollow bars. Valencia
came from, the prison in San Miguel de los Reyes, called Nice because of the sweetness of its climate,
by the usual pensioners of these establishments. He spoke with pride of this house, as well
as a rich student remembers the last years in college English or German. High palm shaded
patios, waving his capital of feathers above the rooftops. From the bars came to see the full
extent of the Valencian orchard, with triangular pediments and targets of their barracks,
and beyond the Mediterranean, a vast blue band, whose back was hiding behind the rock home, the
beloved island. Perhaps she had gone through the salt-laden wind and burning plant emissions
who sneaked a blessing in the stink of the prison blocks. What more could I want a prisoner!
... Life was sweet, was eating his hours, always hot, there was order, and man had only to obey,
let go. They became good friends, it was a with remarkable people who had never known to remain
on the island. And speaking Ferrer with pride of his friends. Some had had millions in luxury
carriages and paraded past in Madrid, almost fantastic city, whose name sounded in the ears
of the islanders as the Baghdad for the poor Arab of the desert listening to a story from
the Thousand and One Nights. Others had run the world before the disgrace they are confined in confinement,
and recalled before a rapt circle of his adventures on land or in countries where black men
were yellow or green and wore braids womanly. At the former convent, as big as a people living
the best of the land. Some had girded sword and commanded men, others Sealed papers were handled
and interpreted the law.

Even a fellow priest had been to block the Ferrer! ...

Fans of this she listened with wide eyes and nostrils quivering with excitement. What joy! Be
Verro, winning the respect of celebrity and killing an enemy in shadows
of the night, and return, eight years in Nice, a place of delight
and honor.

No They have much luck ...

The Chaplain, who had heard these stories, I felt the Verro respect
admiration.

Describing the peculiarities of his person with the neatness of it feels like love of a hero.

He was not tall or strong as a lord, but he was quick, no beat him at the ball, and could dance for
hours, to pay all the girls of the parish. He had brought his long Nice season a pale complexion
and lustrous, a cloistered nun complexion, but it was dark like the others, his face tanned and weathered
by the sea air and the African sun island. He lived in the mountains in a shack immediately
to the pine forests near the charcoal which provided fuel to his forge. This will not be lit all day.
The Ferrer, with its pretensions as an artist, only worked when I had to repair a gun, transforming
an old blunderbuss gun piston spark, or making those guns with silver
ornaments they admired the Chaplain.

He wished he preferred to see her sister that the Verro enter into
his family with their amazing skills.

Perhaps spurred on by the next relationship is decided to give her one of those jewelry.

- Margalida you may want, and then Ferrer give me one of his pistols. You do you think, Don
Jaime? ...

Verro advocated as if it were longer relative. The poor lived so bad! ... Only in forge, no
other company that a relative old, always dressed in black for mourning
remote, teary eye, closed another, and pulling the bellows while his
nephew broke the iron red.

The vicinity of the fire wiped his bony increasing thinness. In his wrinkled face Apple seemed
to settle the old eye sockets.

He smoked and dark cave amid the pines could be beautified with the presence of Margalida. Her
only ornament was a few actual reed baskets woven color on a chessboard, with silk tassels, friendly
reminder of the unknown artists who entertained his leisure in retirement Nice. When his sister
lived at the forge, Pepet would you see it, and had acquired from
the munificence of his brother-in visits, knife as famous as the grandfather,
if Mr. Pep persevered unfairly deny this glorious heritage.

The memory of his father seemed to darken the hopes of the boy. Looked hard for the Can Mallorquí
owner accepted as the son of Pere Ferrer. Nothing bad could say the old of him accepting his fame
as an honor for the people. The island was not only brave men on "the beasts of San Juan", also San
Jose could boast of brave young men who had ordeals suffered. But Ferrer was a man of trade,
little understood in agricultural commodities, and though all showed themselves equally willing
Ibiza to cultivate the land, take a net into the sea or to a cache of contraband passing easily
from one job to another, he wanted for his daughter a real farmer, accustomed all his life
to scratch the floor. His resolution was unshakable. In that brain wilderness and hard, when
it came to sprout a idea took root so deeply, that there was no cataclysmic hurricane that started
up. Pepet would be cured and the world.

Margalida kept it for a farmer to enlarge the land Can Mallorquí to inherit.

The Chaplain inquietábase to think about who could be helped by Margalida. Work gave all faces
having a man like Ferrer. Although his sister bent to another, the winner would have to deal
then with Pere, the brave glorious, removing middle. Iban to see great things. Margalida the
parade was already talk in all houses in the paddock, his fame would
eventually engulf the whole island.

And smiled with fierce Pepet delight, as a little savage who sees next massacre.

Margalida admired, recognizing it as a higher authority than the father, therefore that was not based
on fear of shock. She ran around the house. The mother walked his footsteps as a domestic, not
daring to do anything without consulting her. Pep fate, so absolute in his ideas, he stopped
before making a decision, scratching his forehead with a gesture of doubt as he said quietly:
"This will have to consult with atlota."

The same Chaplain, who had inherited the paternal stubbornness, easily desist their attempts
to protest only one word of his sister, a hint of his mouth smiling, his sweet voice.

- What she knows, Don Jaime! - Said the boy wonder -. I do not know if it is beautiful. Over
there they say yes, but I do not like.

I like others of my age. Too bad not yet to support the festeig !....

And back to talking about his sister, listed their talents, insisting with some respect in her
singing ability.

Did you know Don Jaime to Sang, a below par atlot the chest that did not work and spent his days
lying in the shade of the trees, hitting the drums and mumbling verses? ... It was a white
lamb, a chicken, with skin and eyes of a woman, unable to face anyone. It also Margalida wanted
to, but the Chaplain swore the drum put him by the neck before accept it as a brother ... He
could only intermarry with a hero ... But what of songs drawn head and singing interspersed with
peacock screams there is no one with different measure singing. There must be fair and recognize
their merit Pepet. It was a glory to the paddock could almost be
compared with the brave Ferrer.

Well, this singer was facing him Margalida when, in the summer gatherings in porchu of the
farm or dancing at Sunday, blushing, driven by the companions, he chose to sit in the center of
the circle, and the drum on one knee, eyes hidden behind a scarf, answered with a long romance,
all in their invention in which the poet had said earlier.

If I released a Sunday sang an interminable story about the falsity
of women and faces that cost the man his fondness for rags, Margalida
he responded to another Sunday romance with a long-criticizing double
vanity and selfishness of men, and peat of atlotas chanted his verses
with clucks of enthusiasm, recognizing the glory of a vengeful Can
the girl Mallorquí.

- Pepet!

... Atlot!

A female voice sounded far away, like glass, cutting the heavy silence
of the first afternoon, charged with vibrations of heat and light.

Sounded louder and louder, the repeated, as if it is near the tower.

Pepet little beast left its resting position, freeing the legs drawn
ring arms to stand up for a jump ... Margalida which was called ...
His father had claimed for some work, in view of his lateness.

The Lord kept him by the arm.

- Let her come - she smiled -.

Become a deaf ear to that cry.

The Chaplain bared his sharp teeth in the darkness of his tanned face. Smiled the urchin, satisfied
with this guilty complicity, and wanted to take advantage of it,
talking to the gentleman bold confidence.

You really do ask for him, but Pep, the knife's grandfather?

Oh, Güelo cabinet! Was always present in his memory.

- Yes, I have - said Jaime -. And if your father does not come through,
I'll buy the best you find in Ibiza.

The boy rubbed his hands, his eyes shining with savage brilliance.

- It's just that you are a man like the others - continued Febrer
- but no use!

A nothing more than simple adornment.

Pepet, eager to make their wish as soon as he answered with vigorous head movements. Yes, an ornament
just ... But her eyes darkened with a cruel question ... An ornament,
but offended if someone wearing such a companion, what should a man
do?

...

- Pepet! ... Atlot!

Crystal's voice now sounded at the foot of the tower. Febrer expected to hear more about, do
appear Margalida head and then his whole body into the hole of entry. Long waited in vain time:
the voice was becoming urgent, with graceful tremor of impatience,
but no closer more.

Febrer appeared at the door and saw the girl at the foot of the stairs, something dwarfed by distance,
with puffy blue skirt and a straw hat from which hung ribbons of
flowers.

Against the background of the broad brim, equal to a halo, his face stood out, a pale pink, which
seemed to shake the drops black eyes.

- Salut d'enmetllé Flo! - Febrer said with some uncertainty in his voice, but smiling.

"Almond Blossom Girl !...» Upon hearing this name in the mouth of the Lord, the crimson of a blood
expansion momentarily hid the soft whiteness of her skin ...

"" Don Jaime I knew this name? ... "A man as he learned of such nonsense ?...»

Febrer only saw and crown and brim of Margalida. He had lowered his head and in his confusion
was toying with the ends of the apron, embarrassed as a girl who is given suddenly realized
the significance of sex and listen to the first compliment.

III

The next Sunday morning Febrer was the people.

The guy could not accompany Guster the sea, he considered indispensable presence at Mass, to respond
in a shrill voice the words of the priest.

Devoid of occupation, Jaime began his march to the town by red dirt
tracks dirtied the whiteness of his sandals.

It was one of the last days of summer. Farmsteads of crisp whiteness seemed to reflect like
mirrors the fire of an African sun. Buzzed environment swarms of insects. In the green shadow
of fig trees, wide, low round, supported by a circle of stakes and a roof of greenery, open figs fell
heat, bursting into the ground like huge drops of purple sugar.

Rose prickly pears blades spiked walls on both sides of the road, and its dusty roots scampered,
fearful and drunk with sunshine, waving small animals, long tail and emerald green.

In between the colonnade and twisted black olive and almond trees could be seen in the distance,
following other paths, groups of farmers that also marched towards the village. Front atlotas were
going to Sunday suit, with red or white scarves and skirts green,
shining the sun his big gold chains.

Together they walked to the suitors, tenacious guard and hostility that was played a glance
or a word of choice, while besieging several to the same girl. Parents brought up the rear of the
girls, aged prematurely by fatigue and sobriedades of camp life, poor beasts of the earth,
submissive, resigned, black skin, dry members like branches, and in the stupor of his mind remembered
which a vague and remote festeig spring the year.

When Febrer came to town he went directly to church. We were six or eight houses with the mayor, school
and the pub around the temple. There stood this magnificent and powerful as a nexus of all
the houses scattered over valleys and mountains in some miles radius.

Jaime, taking off the hat to wipe sweat from his forehead, took refuge
under a small cloister arcades that preceded the church.

There he experienced the same feeling Arab welfare is home to a solitary witch doctor after the
march through the sand inflamed like an oven.

The whiteness of the church, whitewashed, with its arcades fresh and stone embankment crowned
dried cactus, suggested in a mosque in Africa. Strength was over temple. Their roofs were hidden
by the upper edge of the walls, a kind of redoubt which had been
leaning on rifles and shotguns often.

The tower was a tower still crowned with battlements war: his old bell had turned in another time
with fever the alarm.

This church, which the farmers of the paddock came to life with baptism and out her with the funeral
Mass, was for centuries the refuge of his terrors, the strength their resistance. When the watchmen
of the coast with bonfires or smoke announcing a Moor boat, all the farms of the parish families
ran to the temple, loading his gun men, women and children herding goats and donkeys or carrying
their backs with their legs tied in bundles all poultry. The house of God became stall keeper of
the fortunes of his followers. The priest, in a corner, praying with women being cut their sentences
by cries of anguish and cries of children, while in tower roofs and the riflemen were exploring
the horizon, until it was news that birds of prey in the sea became
isolated.

Then reanudábase normal existence, becoming each family to its isolation, with the certainty
of repeating the harrowing journey a few weeks later.

Febrer remained under the arcades were coming to see how groups of peasants in a hurry, spurred by
the last touch of the bell that flipped on top of the tower. Inside The church was almost
full.

Through the open door came to a dense puff Jaime Burning breaths, sweat and rough clothes. Febrer
felt some sympathy for these good people when encountered separately, but the crowd inspirábale
aversion and stayed away from contact.

Many Sundays down the people to stand at the door of the church without entering it. The habitual
solitude in his tower on the coast it was necessary to see people.
In addition, Sunday was for him, a man without jobs, a dull day, tiring,
endless. This rest of the other was his torment. I could not go to
sea for lack of a boatman, and the fields loners, with their houses
closed, to find families at Mass or in the dance Later, I connected
the painful impression of a walk through a cemetery. The morning pasábala
San Jose, and one of his pleasures was to remain in the cloister of
the church looking into and leave the crowd, enjoying the cool shade
of the arches, while burning a few steps further the earth with solar
reverb, tree branches swaying slowly as distressed heat and dust covering
the leaves, and dense environment appeared to be chewed before descend
to the lungs. 

Families arrived late, going to Febrer with a look
of curiosity and mild greeting. Everyone knew him in the paddock.
These good people, seeing him in the field could open the door of
his house, but her kindness did not go beyond being unable to approach
it of its own accord. He was a stranger. He was also a Spaniard. Its
status as lord created a mysterious distrust of rustic people, who
could not explain his stay in the isolation of a tower.

Febrer left
alone. Reached his ears the ringing of a bell, the sound of people
kneeling or standing, and a familiar voice, the voice of Uncle Guster,
throwing in tone responses sung Mass with stridor of his toothless
mouth. People accepted without laughing these interference of senile
insanity. She was used, years and years, hear the Latin word made
the old sailor, who from your bank shouted responses supported helper