 

The guy, without realizing the irony, he sneered.

- Oh, I see you so ignorant as you went ... I am looking for dinner.

- I wait for you, man - said Gonzalo, who was already far .-- It may not have dinner.

And without taking race, but with unusual speed, thanks to his huge legs, saved the streets,
lit by some rare oil lamps in the theater. Any you stumble in that hour you inglesote diputaría by
the many who come to Sarrió sometimes sending ships, other mining concessions to recognize
or mount any industry. His colossal stature, big man, are the hallmarks of the Spanish race, even
we are in one of the northern provinces. Then, that so long coat, boots three soles, hat exotic
form, clearly denounced abroad. Well, looking at him Face had just completed the illusion,
because it was white and smooth and decorated with long beard, blue eyes, hazel or rather, as
those who are almost except in the northern breeds.

Seize the short time remaining before us you get to the theater to provide the reader with some
biographical information about this young man.

The Cuevas family to which it belongs, came to be giants and marine, from time immemorial. Marino
had been his father, his grandfather ocean, marine uncles, and also marine their children.
Gonzalo lost his father and mother when it was eight years old owner of a not inconsiderable
fortune, managed by his uncle and guardian, Don Melchor, in whose power and save his father
left him to die.

Well like the old sailor who your ward continue the uninterrupted tradition of the lineage
of the Caves in the race. To hobby or tip you wake to the Navy, bought a beautiful sloop where
both walked out in the evenings or fishing.
But all the good knight purposes crashed into the ground hobbies
of his nephew. From the sea did not like him more than fish, but seasoned
and steaming and in the middle of the table. Still compromised, however,
with a light snack stew there somewhere bend of the coast, sitting
on a rock where Manase fresh drinking water