 Consists in the fear of being loved for the money
and not by yourself. Nothing more ridiculous than this fear. We have proven that money is more
life. Money is therefore an essential part of the person. A philosopher German would say the
money is put into the self in an absolute manner. More fool is thus tormented, because they want one
for the money, which tormented because they want one because it is clean, well-bred, elegant,
educated etc., all qualities that are purchased at artificially same as money, that money
should be more or less quantity. Maybe I better not the last porter in Madrid, sometimes physical,
sometimes intellectual, sometimes morally considered and yet, assuming single, any beautiful lady
might have even the caprice of love Me, not censor anyone, but if the porter fall in love, everyone
have this passion for extravagance or folly. Then, in the final outcome, that moves them to
love, unless extravagantísimo love, is money, or something that represents money or purchased
with money. What I have spent in educating, pulirme, wash up and dapper, is nothing more than money.

Finally,
the largest and most enviable advantage that money provides is the authority and respectability
to give to whom he has, and the confidence just who has inspired.

III.

These considerations on the influence of money or wealth in the individual, like I happen to discourse
at greater length about the influence of wealth on culture and power nations, but will not record
here more than some very slight concepts. I flinch the fear of getting lost, and very little awareness
of my knowledge in political economy, science that at the end, after much thought, the authors
have all come to agree with Aristotle where is the money, or, more
generally, wealth, where the flame Chrematistics sage of Stagira.

    And even more unfortunate than my own ignorance,
    that

After a hundred thousand books stirred Science out of this tangled and awkward,

no one can know clearly what is wealth. All definitions are discordant and is that science begins
with not knowing how to define, determine and declare the object of science itself. Neither
is more advanced in the definition of other scientific words, such
as value, price, capital, industry and change, which is not strange
because it still ignored it is wealth, which is the key word or idea,
necessarily has to ignore or is it disagree about the rest.

Malthus said: "After so many years of research and many volumes of findings, writers could not
be understood until now about what constitutes wealth, and while
that writers who are employed in this business are better understood,
no conclusions may be taken as a maximum to be followed.

"

Dedúcese of here, Malthus conviction and authority that we should not follow the maximum or Ignoring
one of few economists who preceded him in the sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and
in the first third of this. All these economists do not know what they said, according to Malthus;
and that among them are Smith, Say, Storch, Ricardo, Gioja, Mac-Culloch and other eminences.
They have not progressed further then other wise to give these definitions. Stuart Mill withdraws
to define what is wealth, and says that if only we understand it
in practice, thereby continues.

Bastiat is entangled in harmony with other economists rivals, and is prove you are ignorant
or fools who do not know what is the value.

Indeed, one of these economists attempt to demonstrate that the value of a thing is overcome
the obstacles to produce, which it follows that, the easier it becomes production, reducing
the obstacles, things have less value, so that, while more things
there, we will be poorer. It, therefore, create barriers to production,
so that, finding it hard to produce, also worth a lot of things produced,
and we rich. Seems impossible that such ideas are sustained and even
to be challenged seriously