 Went to the kitchen, huge dependence which
were prepared at one time the famous banquets of the Febrer, surrounded by parasites and generous
to all the friends who came to the island. Antonia Madò seemed smaller in lengthy terms this
room, next to the great fireplace of the home, which could admit a huge pile of logs, roasting
at a time several pieces. Banks could stoves serve an entire community. The cold shower of
this unit demonstrated its lack of use. On the walls, big hooks exposed the absence of copper
vessels that had once been splendid glory of the convent kitchen. The old servant was her
cooking in a small stove next to the trough in which kneading bread.

Jaime gave a shout out to Madò Antonia to tell her presence, and introduced into a room immediately,
the small dining room that had used the last Febrer, have come down in Fortunately, avoiding
the great hall where they held the ancient banquets.

Was visible here too the pace of poverty. The long table covered with a rubber Hallab cracked,
of dubious whiteness. The cupboards were almost empty. The ancient china, the break, was replaced
by a few dishes and jugs of gross production. Two open windows in the background framed pieces
restless sea of ??blue, throbbing low the fire of the sun. In its leisurely balanceábanse rectangles
branches of a palm. Marcábanse beyond the horizon the white wings of a schooner slowly coming towards
Palma, like a tired gull.

Antonia Madò entered, leaving on the table a bowl of steaming coffee and a big slice Cover pan with
lard.

Jaime attacked the breakfast with avidity, and chewing the bread made a distaste. Madò assented
with a nod, breaking to speak their language Mallorca.

- Very hard, right?

... That bread could not be compared with the rolls I ate Mr. in the Casino, but the blame was
not hers. Thought to have amassed the day before, but had no meal and was waiting for the peasant
to bring his Son Febrer tribute. The ungrateful people and forgetful!

...

The old servant insisted on his contempt for the peasant farmer are Febrer, property that Fortune
was the last house. Everything was the rustic to the benevolence of the family, and now, in difficult
moments, he forgot his good masters.

Jaime continued chewing, with the thought put into are Febrer. Nor what was his, not But bear
it as owner. The property, located in the center of the island - the best farm inherited from
their parents, which bore the name of the family - it was mortgaged and was to lose a moment's
notice. Income, low and short, according to traditional practices, ministered unto him to pay
only a tiny portion of the interest on loans, fueling the remaining amount of the debt. Were the
aldehalas, payments in kind that the peasant had him, according to ancient customs, and they
kept him and Antonia Madò, lost in the huge house that had been made to accommodate a tribe. At Christmas
and Easter Easter lambs received a couple accompanied by a dozen poultry; in the autumn two
well-fattened pigs for slaughter, and every month, and a host eggs flour, more than the fruits
of the season. With these aldehalas, some consumed at home and other sold by the servant, were
holding Madò Jaime and Antonia in the solitude of chateau, insulated from public curiosity, like
two lost shipwrecked on an island.

Offerings in kind is increasingly delayed. The peasant, with that selfishness rustic likely to
flee misfortune, they were also lazy to avoid fulfilling their obligations. I knew the primogeniture
was not the real master of Son Febrer, and often, to reach the city its present, twisted way,
going to place them in homes from creditors, fearful characters they wanted to be propitious.

Jaime looked sadly at the servant, who stood erect before him. It was an old payesa he still
had the dress of his people, dark jacket with a double row of buttons on the sleeves; rameada
clear skirt and covering his head the rebocillo, white veil attached
to the neck and chest, below which escaped the thick braid - wearing
fake and very black - crowned by long velvet ribbons.

- Misery, Mado
Antonia! - Said the Lord in the same language -.

All leave the poor, and the best day, if that rascal does not bring what we must, we will eat each
other, same as if we were shipwrecked.

The old woman smiled, "Mr. always happy."

In this was a vivid portrait of his grandfather, Horace eternally serious, got a face that
fear, but saying such stuff ...

- This must end - Jaime continued, ignoring the joy of the servant -.

This will end Today, I decided ... Know, Mado, before the story runs: I case.

The maid clasped her hands devoutly to express their astonishment
and raised his eyes to the ceiling.

Blood Holy Christ! It's about time ... Should have done before, and another would be the state
of the house. Awoke a curiosity, and asked with peasant greed:

- Is it rich? ...

The nod did not surprise Mr. Necessarily had to be rich. Only one woman she carries with her a
large fortune could aspire to join the last of the Febrer, which
had been the most remarkable men of the island and perhaps the world.

Poor Madò thought in your kitchen, instantly populating it with the imagination of vessels bright
copper and gold, seeing all the fires lit, full of girls of bare
arms, the back rebocillo, floating braid, and she in the middle, sitting
on a chair, giving orders and smelling the delightful whiff of pans.

-
Will Young! - Said the old woman to get more news to his master.

-
Yes, young, much younger than I am too young, about twenty years.

I recently needed to to be his father.

Madò made a gesture of protest.

Don Jaime was the handsomest man on the island. She said she he had admired from the time he
was in shorts and led him by the hand a walk among the pines immediate
Bellver Castle.

It was a Febrer, that family of arrogant big shots, and it was said
it all.

- What is good home? - Kept asking to force the brevity of
his master -.

Family undoubtedly gentlemen, the very best of the island ... But no, now I guess. Maybe it
Madrid. Some dating from when you lived there.

James hesitated a moment, turned pale, and then said with rough energy to hide his confusion:

- No, Mado ... It is a chueta.

Antonia was to join hands, and just before invoking again the Blood of Christ so venerated in Palma,
but suddenly widened the lines of his dark face, and broke to laugh ... What Mr. so happy! Like
his grandfather.

He said the most wonderful and amazing with a seriousness that deceived
the people.

And she, poor fool, he had thought such jokes! Maybe even as the marriage was a lie ...

- No, Mado. I marry a chueta ... I marry the daughter of Don Benito Valls. For that I will Valldemossa
today.

The muffled voice of James, his eyes downcast, timid accent that whispered these words, taken
from doubt the servant. Was it with his mouth open, his arms folded, no strength to raise
their hands or eyes.

- Lord ... Lord ... Lord ...

He could not say more. He thought it sounded like thunder, making the old thrill house, that
a cloud had passed before the sun, darkening, the sea became leaden moving in choppy waves against
the wall. Then he saw that everything was the same, only It was moved by this great news, worthy
of overturning the existing order.

- Lord ... Lord ... Lord ...

And grabbing the empty bowl and the remains of the bread, she ran, eager to take refuge as before
in the kitchen. After hearing such horrors, the house was fearful. Had to walk someone for the
venerable halls of the other side of the building: someone she could not know who it was, but
that probably had just awakened from a dream of centuries. The palace had a soul. When the mother
was alone in it, furniture creaked as if they spoke among them, pulsed
tapestries hidden his face moved, vibrated in a corner a golden harp
the grandmother of Don Jaime, and she did not feel afraid anymore,
because people had been Febrer good, simple and kind to their servers.

But now, after hearing such things!

... Thought with some concern in the pictures that adorned the room hosting. Which face of those
gentlemen, if they had come to them the words of his descendant!

Antonia Madò finally calm, drinking coffee remains prepared for the Lord. And not afraid, but felt
deep sadness for the fate of Don Jaime, as if he saw him in threatening. Finish thus Febrer house!
What God could tolerate such things? ... Certain contempt for the Lord came to momentarily overcome
the old affection.

Finally, a skull forgotten religion and morality, he had squandered what remainder of the fortune
of his house. What would they say their famous relatives? Shame his aunt Juana, that noble
lady - the holiest and Nobleman of the island - which, some for fun and others for excessive
veneration, called the Popess!

- Bye, Mado ... In the evening I'll be back.

The old greeted with a grunt to Jaime, who poked his head to say goodbye.

Then, looking single, lifted her arms, invoking the help of the Blood of Christ, the Virgen
del Lluch, patron saint of the island, and the portentous San Vicente Ferrer, who had performed many
miracles during their sermons in Mallorca. One more, holy prodigious monstrosity to avoid projecting
his master!

... That fall a stone from the mountains, intercepting forever Valldemossa Road, which overturn
the cart and bring Don Jaime four men ... everything before that shame!

Febrer crossed the reception, opened the door to the stairs and started down the soft steps.
His grandparents, like all the nobles of the island, built big.

The ladder and the hall occupied a third of the floor of the house. A kind of loggia to Italian,
with five arches supported by slender columns, extended to the termination of the stairs, opening
into the ends of the two doors that gave access to the two upper wings the building. In the center
of her balcony above the start of the stairs in front to the front door, was the stone shield in
the Febrer, with iron farolón forged.

James, coming down, struck his stick on the sandstone steps or touched the large painted amphorae
that adorned the landings, and they struck back with a sound bell. The iron railings, rusty
with age and crumbling into rusty scales trembling, almost loose from their sockets, with
the sound of footsteps.

On reaching the hall, Febrer stopped. The extreme resolution was adopted, and would to influence
the destinies forever in its name, made him look curiously at the same places before crossing
indifferent.

Nowhere in the building felt like here's former prosperity. The hall, huge a place which could
support more than a dozen floats and a whole squadron of cavalry.

Twelve columns something bellied, hazelnut marble of the island, holding the stone arches cut
into pieces without any coating, which extended above the roof beams black. The floor was gravel,
and moss growing between them from moisture. Freshness of debris stretched for this entry gigantic
and solitary. A cat crossed the hall, leaving through the hole of a worm-eaten door of the old
stables, to disappear into the abandoned underground had kept the crops in the past. On one side
was a well the same time that the palace was built, an opening in the rock, curbstone Stone
gnawed by time and a steeple worked to hammer iron. The ivy growing in fresh bouquets among the highlights
of the polished stone.

Many times, Jaime, being child, had appeared to be seen down at the
circular pupil and their light sleeping waters.

The street was deserted.

At the end of it, next to the garden wall of Febrer there was the city wall, and open a gate in the
wall with wooden bars his bow, same as the teeth of a huge mouth of fish. At the bottom of this
mouth trembled, bright green, the waters of the bay.

Jaime walked a few steps in the blue stones of the street, lack of sidewalks, and stopped to look
after your home. It was just a small remnant of the past. The old palace Febrer occupied the entire block,
but had been getting smaller over the centuries and family troubles. Now a part of it was the
residence of nuns, and other fractions had been purchased by some rich, which disfigured with
modern practicable balcony the primitive unit building, witnessed by the uniform line of eaves
and roofs. The Febrer them, refugees in that part of the mansion that overlooked the garden
and the sea, had to give the lower floors to increase their income, a small warehouse and
industrial. Next to the stately home, after a few windows, some worked ironing linen girls, Jaime
greeted with a respectful smile. He remained motionless in contemplation of the old house.

What a beautiful still, despite their amputation and their age!

...

The stone plinth, pierced and bent inwards by the friction of people
and carriages, was broken by several skylights storey bars.

The lower part of the palace showed himself corroded, torn and dusty, like feet that had walked
for centuries.

From the mezzanine floor with independent entrance, which had been rented to a warehouse drugs,
began to develop the elegant splendor of the facade. Three windows to arch of the gate level, divided
by double columns, marble showed their frames finely crafted black.

The thistles climbed the stone columns supporting the cornice, and on the latter field three
large medallions: the middle one with the bust of Emperor and the inscription Carolus Dominus
Imperator 1541, memories of his passage through to the unfortunate
Mallorca Algiers expedition, the side boasting the Febrer weapons,
supported by fish man with bearded heads.

In large first floor windows jambs climbed cornices and wreaths made of anchors and dolphins,
witness the glories of this family of sailors. Abríanse huge spikes on their shells. At the highest
the facade lay a compact row of windows with Gothic ornaments, some boarded up, others open to give
light and air into the lofts, and above them the monumental forward, forward great, as is
only found in the palaces of Mallorca, extending until the average the street or assembling
of carved wood, blackened by time and supported by vigorous gargoyles.

Extendíanse across the facade, forming quadrilaterals, decayed wood slats nailed clamps and rusted
iron. Were remnants of the great highlights with the house commemorating certain parties in their glory.

Jaime
seemed satisfied with this test. It was still beautiful palace of their ancestors, despite the
lack of glass windows, dust and cobwebs crammed into the holes, the tears that had been opened in
centuries revoked. When he marry and fortune Valls happened to the old hands, were all to marvel
at the magnificent resurrection Febrer. And yet they were offended some of his resolution and
he felt certain scruples? ... Adelante!

He walked to the terminal, broad avenue that is the center of Palma, in the old stream other times
separated the city into two towns and two sides enemies Amunt Can
and Can Avall.

They find a car to take him to Valldemossa.

Upon entering the terminal immobility attracted attention of several passersby who shaded of
trees copudos watched some farmers held before the window of a shop.
Febrer recognized his clothes, other than those used by the peasants
of the island. Were Ibiza ... Ah, Ibiza! The name of this island evoked
the memory of a year of her adolescence remote spent there. Seeing
those people who did smile at Mallorca as if they were foreigners,
Jaime smiled, looking forward to their costumes and figures.

It was
undoubtedly a father with his daughter and son. The farmer was wearing
white sandals, falling on the broad hood of a blue corduroy pants.
His jacket was attached blouse on the chest with a brooch, revealing
shirt and sash. A dark cloak of a woman resting on his shoulders like
a shawl to complete this costume semifemenil, which contrasted with
his hard and brown as a Moor, under his hat a kerchief knotted at
the chin with the ends hanging over the back. The son, who looked
fourteen, dressed like him, with the same narrow-leg pants and wide
bell, but without the shawl or handkerchief. A pink ribbon hanging
on his breast like a tie, a sprig of weeds sticking out of one ear,
and tape embroidered hat lying on flowers left neck released a wave
of curls falling on her face brown, thin, malicious, encouraged by
the light of African eyes of intense blackness.

The girl was calling
more attention, with its tiny green skirt folds under which sensed
the presence of other skirts, balloon inflated several wrappers seemed
to further diminish fine and funny feet enclosed in white sandals.
The hide her protruding chest contours under a yellow shawl with red
flowers