 Want to share with me? Will you
help me to chair my gathering?

- I do not know if Braulio willing and able ...

- How not to love?

It seems affable, cheerful, good sir, and discreet. And recognize that their Women should
not always be stuck at home. When married with a child like you would
by all this.

No shock will take him.

- Yes ... it is true ...-- Beatriz said - but Braulio has compelling reasons. Why I feel ashamed
to say to you? We are poor ... How do you spend on clothes? ...

- And why the costumes? In my house ... We confidently ... You can go as you ... now, less luxurious
yet ... and until the work can take you there ... You'll see how you get distracted there at
night. Your sister will be distracted too, because they provided chickens home their age and
will know more when she goes. As for your husband ... is not a requirement indispensable to accompany
you always. That would be ridiculous for several reasons, because it would suspect he was a zealous
suspicious, which would be in contempt of yours, or because it would presume that was a man incapable
bare, he had no business in what used, but in Finally, even when
your husband was often at my house, I am certain that, far from weigh
is happy.

There are quite a few subjects of their position.

Would be released, win friends and talk policy, finance, science, everything, looking so much
to say that you know ... and until the present, that is in peace and without getting angry, it has
not helped. You confess it ... you are not very lucid.

- We are pleased ... and do not want more.

- That is a virtue ... but sterile.

When no goal is not reached. It must suck all ... For you see my
husband ... And I'll introduce you ... Not worth the twentieth part
of your Don Braulio.

And yet ... how do you know wits!

... It is a gyrfalcon ... I speak to you from the heart in hand.

It is necessary that we remove your husband of limbo in which they
live.

It has elements ... Why not to use them? To a philosopher, contempt of the world and its vain
pomp, would have done better not to marry a bud like you.

- What? I loved her so much!

- Too bad you did not love you out! Who does not instill love?

You, however, grateful ...

- Not just grateful ... love too ...

- So, have you loved a lot?

- And I love him still.

- His great talent seduced you: two reasons
to use it in making you happy, so that vague musings stop and see
what matters. I do not know what a writer has compared acute speculative
philosopher with a mule that turns a wheel, attached to it by the
devil metaphysics, drawing water not drinking and not eating the abundant
grass and fresh vegetable that everywhere around you. Well, even worse
when the philosopher or the mule, following the mischievous comparison,
has a partner and rope leads, not left to graze either.

- My duty
and my taste is to follow my husband wherever he goes, so take me
to a barren desert as a land of promise. For that, I do not think
that is so deep in futile dreams, that ignores the reality of life.

-
Best case. I'm glad. Without flattery, I will be very nice your husband.
It has good looks. Is known to be bird counts. The only thing that
should be reformed is the hat and the peaks the collar. Are enormous.
Why not make the cut that a bit?

- It's a whim