 

European states have need for this kind of reciprocal trade, to use every a special productions.
In this regard, and in comparison to the small to big, the highest commercial future issues
may apply to the Republic of Bolivia; presenting it in its various provinces all areas, all
temperaments, and may lead to the promotion of industry produce all that other peoples and countries
of the world.

Meanwhile, the first step to be taken for the advancement and improvement of the province of
Caupolican, and to make her readily acquire the degree of commercial importance to which it
is intended, is the establishment of channels of communication with the provinces the interior,
and also that of women who must mediate between the various points inhabited. Is easy to open
on every mountain trails not much cost to the transit of mules because the stones (the most
accurate material) are at hand, not so demanding other conservation of these methods but a slight
care. In places where it has established this, over a considerable space of miles, the abominable
system of palisades or log crossing, it could build roads or stone embankments, and to prevent that
drains these to the continuous passage of beasts, to fill with rain water, give a convex shape
and open a small ditch on each side for those spills, as practiced in the construction of highways
across Europe.

These paths indicate not need an excessive width, and therefore does not require great expense, to
more of this, the imposition of a Peage right, nothing burdensome for their reasonableness bystanders,
would cover anticipated expenditures easily from the Government. Engineers in the field of bridges
and roads, currently practicing in the Republic, may moreover, in view of local resources, take
over the most economic means as may be necessary to establish as soon as possible, with the
cooperation and goodwill of the Indians, these vias communication, the only means of stimulating trade
v industry, and civilization turn of the province.

Caupolican in this respect is perhaps the most favored of all the provinces of Bolivia, is crossed
by navigable rivers of the usefulness and importance seems not to do the least attention. How is
it possible to believe, for example, that since ancient times (more than sixty years) is being
done to carry on the shoulders of the unfortunate Indians, by the excessive firing of fifty
or sixty leagues, to the capital of the province, all the fruits of the inland towns of Ysiamas of
Tumupaza and Saint-Joseph, being so easy to ship them and pass them up by the Rio-Beni to a point
not far from Apollo? Or as will be credible that, having at his disposal a vehicle of such importance,
a river as mighty as the Beni, no use is made up this, to go from Ysiamas to Cavinas, but petty
rafts, while account more than a century and a half since that Moxos sailing in canoes? It is
therefore very unlikely that such Caupolican backward state in even relatively to the neighboring
provinces, not from not checked lack of business relationships. And actually going to talk about
the province Caupolican, to a Potosino for example, is dealing with a thing that only you know
the name, known as those of China and Turkey, but not for the world
is after him there passed.

With media navigation as simple as you can imagine what will become Cavinas, Ysiamas and Tumupaza
when sailing vessels or steam transport their products, in quantities the more weight you will,
both to near the river Tuyche Apollo, as to a short La-Paz shot by rivers and Bogpi Mocetenes.
It suffices, however, to cease from then the sad servitude of the Indians to engage in the
navigation of boats, but so that The construction of these were comfortable and not expensive,
it would need the government to do intelligent men come from Europe in art, in order that, saving
unnecessary costs, could lead to the natives in the building, the weapons and how to make use
of such vessels. Without this precaution, the inexperience of the people can still slow, long,
the execution of a measure that is of prime necessity for improving
the province.

I could say a word here about the benefits that are reserved to the province with the navigation of
the river Beni to the Amazon, down then up the sea to make his way to Europe, but, as I have
to touch this point when discussing the province Moxos, which is
also crossed by the river Beni, then let the exposition and examination
of important issues.

Réstame talk about some other improvements necessary to the welfare of the inhabitants of Caupolican.
The means to restore your health to the country, cutting off the evil caused by the cold of
South wind so deadly for the creatures of the inland towns, as well as the ravages caused by the smallpox
among the elderly, when the classrooms of Medicine Republic provide such a number of disciples
who can put the state in each province an optional fixed and paid enough so that the question of the
priests Ausilio to preserve the appalling infant mortality, and spread
the application of the vaccine, together with other health condoms.

Missionaries learned and zealous could also, with the support of the Government, take responsible
for the conversion of savages breeds found in the north and north-west
of Tumupaza, Isiamas and Cavinas, creating small towns, where these
Indians took a liking to the benefits of social life, thus contributing
greatly to the general good of the country.

Currently, the immoderate use of spirits such as brandy, which in religious festivities to drink
too much, brings pecuniary ruin of indigenous the great deterioration of his health, and, therefore
indispensable, the disorder in customs. Would be easy, however, remedy evils of this nature,
imposing heavy rights to the introduction of such harmful liquids, or taking any other measures
his good sense dictates to the Government for there is nothing so pitiful as to see how much
damage excesses similar to social advancement, morally and physically
brutalizing those who are left dominated by them.

Finally, the establishment of a school of first letters in each parish, as which has now been judiciously
urgency felt by the Government, will help spread slowly throughout the Republic the national
language, completely extinguished native languages, used even in places where, on the other hand,
the extent of trade relations altering them go from day to day.

While these languages ??still exist, there will be a powerful obstacle
to the onward march of civilization.

MOXOS Province

Division and extent.

Moxos province, one of the most spacious in Bolivia, hugging herself as both ground as one or two departments
of the mountainous regions, occupies the northern extremity the republic and the department
of Beni, representing an oblong surface, which is directed of northwest to southeast, are
between 10 and 16 degrees south latitude and 64 and 70 west longitude meridian of Paris. This
surface, which has little about twenty square degrees, or are thirteen thousand seven hundred
and fifty leagues, to twenty-five the degree, is bounded on the north by the Guaporé or Itenes
and Beni (river to draw the boundary between Bolivia and Brazil), with the latter that separates
it from the Caupolican province by the north-west parle.

Natural limits to the west by the side of the country of Yuracares
are desert plains are located at the foot of last foothills of the
Andes.

Finally, the province is circumscribed towards Moxos the south, southeast and east by immense
impenetrable forests or swamps brought without certain threshold, between it and the provinces
of Santa Cruz de la Sierra and Chiquitos.

Mountains.

Albeit quite Moxos province neighboring hills to the Chiquitos east and north to the Brazilian
mountains, outlining the right bank of Itenes river, and west to the last foot of the mountains
of the Yuracares, contains no in its division one mountain, nor even minor hills, formed by So
a flat surface, which meets the south with the vast plains of Santa Cruz of the Sierra, and
the north-west with the province Caupolican. On the horizon without limits, scarcely four highlights
are found rising to the height of thirty poles on the remainder of the land, and that, unless
it be in the midst of a country so highly level, it would perhaps inapercibidos. These four points
are a few morons isolated the first which is the Cerro del Carmen, is situated about twelve or fifteen
miles southeast of the mission its name, and between the rivers Blanco and San-Miguel, the
second placed on the bank Machupo River right, and neighbor to the
mission that is called, is the hill of San-Ramon, the third is a small
hill below the Exaltation located on the right bank of the Mamore:
finally, the fourth, which is the hill of Saint-Simon, is found east
of Magdalena, his reputation I feel very rich doubtful, as it must
be that of all places inaccessible ensures no However, it is full
of mines of gold and diamonds.

Rios.

In a mountainous country reliefs determine the direction of the currents; per in Moxos whose territory
no more than a single uniform and without sharp plain, where eminences that separate small rivers disappear
under the flood at stations rain, in canoes through allowing a large part of the province,
all currents the plain weave circuit converging towards the center,
and heading to the slopes Amazon, after having met on three main,
which are the Guaporé or Iten, the Mamore and Beni.

Guaporé or Itenes tributaries.

The Barbados born in Rio de Chiquitos Province [1], at quite a distance away from Moxos: This
stream, chief among those that give birth to Guaporé, is navigable Casalbasco further up. As
she starts in a swamp where the river takes origin also Paraguay, would very likely join the
first tributary of this river with Guaporé, opening for this channel
only four thousand eight hundred yards.

In this way they would hand the two giant rivers of South America, the Plata and Amazon coming to
form a natural channel of over two hundred thousand leagues.

The Rio Verde takes origin north of San-Ignacio de Chiquitos, and
moving toward the northwest, go to Barbados to meet the river, near
the 64 degrees of longitude and latitude of 14, forming Guaporé this
river or Itenes: steamboats can freely browse and upload it too up
towards its headwaters.

The Rio Serre was born north of Concepcion de Chiquitos, and in the
same direction as the Green River, joins the Guaporé twenty-five miles
below.

It is equally navigable for boats of any dimension.

The Rio Blanco or Baures also takes its origin north of Concepcion de Chiquitos, and as previous
two is heading towards the northwest, passing immediately and to
Carmen Concepcion Moxos to go to flow into the Guaporé, near the fort
of Beira.

You can browse this river to Chiquitos.

The Rio Itonama receives, under the name Rio de San-Miguel, much of the waters of Chiquitos; is
then attached to Huacaré near Guarayos, and is parallel to the Rio
Blanco to join Guaporé conjunction with the Machupo River, near the
fort of Beira.

Ships can steam everywhere sail on its waters to Chiquitos.

The Rio Machupo wealthy tribute of many streams that leave from the bosom of the plains Moxos
flooded, these streams are, San-Juan, navigable from San-Pedro, the Mooch, Mill, the Machupo and
Chananoca, all gathered and when the river passes Machupo ahead of
the missions of San-Ramon and San-Joaquin, to go and join the river
Itonama, and to couple this throw then in the Guaporé, also near the
fort of Beira.

Guaporé river, once the repository of all these streams of water running
towards the oestenorueste to become incorporated with the Mamore,
around 12 degrees south latitude and 68 west longitude meridian of
Paris.

Tributaries of the Mamore.

Mamore river receives all the waters of the eastern slopes of the mountains, its tributaries, starting
with those found further east, are as follows.

Ivary River rises in the flood plains that are west of the country of Guarayos and heading towards
the northwest, left receives the waters of the rivers Tico and San-Antonio, going to meet with
the Mamore a little above the Trinity Moxos. River is navigable body almost all along its course.

The
Rio Grande has all the waters Chayanta mountainous provinces of Cochabamba,
Mizque and Valle Grande, then descending to the plains of Santa Cruz,
and Adunaic Piray to form the Sara river north of the province.

You can browse their waves up near Santa Cruz de la Sierra.

Piray River rises in the mountains of Samaypata, province of Valle Grande, flows into the plain
of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, and passes near the city of that name, receiving everywhere small
tribute, and then continuing parallel to the Rio Grande to join with him to form the Sara River,
far to the south of 15 degrees latitude.

Its still very fast current in some parts, but when mother leaves can navigate the waters ships
of any dimension.

The Rio Ibaba takes origin under the name of Yapacany in the mountains
east towards the east the country of the Yuracarés, and continues
to run, parallel to the rivers Grande and Piray up Sara plunge into
the river, a few miles below the point at which flows in this same
the last of those.

Ibaba river is navigable for the most part.

The Rio Mamore born east of the river Ibaba on the mountains of the eastern slope of the and
the country ranges from Yuracares. His current that flows received course the Chimoré, walks
along the plain towards the north Moxos, bending a few degrees west. This river, receiving
the tribute of the other rivers of the province preserves Mamore name to 10 degrees south
latitude, in which the term incorporated with Beni, making the denomination
of the Madeira River.

The Mamore can serve as a vehicle to the cruise to the foot of the mountains.

The Rio Chapare, consisting of rivers Coni, San-Mateo, Paracti and many others born in the country
of Yuracares, west of Mamore on the eastern slopes of the mountains,
and heading north meets the south towards the Mamore 15 degrees south
latitude.

You can browse by him, to the confluence of the river Coni, ie to the point where the plain begins.

Securi
River, formed by the rivers Chipiriri Samucebeté, Isidoro, Yaniyuta, and Sinuta Securi, all
of them navigable to the foot of the mountains, receives the streams of the watershed East
of these, from 68 to 70 degrees west longitude, and is incorporated
the above Mamoré of Trinidad, north of 15 degrees latitude.

Tijamuchi River rises in the Eastern Cordillera, west of the last tributaries Securi river, the
river receives water Taricuri and crosses the plain of the province
by the northeast to the Mamore, which meets as 14 degrees latitude,
a little above Mission San-Pedro