 Once
inside he dropped back seat, turned the back into place and settle the person in the worst way you
can be human creature outside the rack. In the second floor seethed, shouted, coceaba and snorted
the whole mob of people without a difference class, the same height as the sailor who was fishing
in the bay Murgas or pawn discharge, the reseller Amalia Sena well as those bringing in "fresh
air" to the capital. To that place was called "the pot." The seats were of the same abhorrent pelote
that boxes and the lining should also be of the same color, could not be known with certainty.
Behind of them had, in the old style, a patio for some artisans who, by age, category of teachers
or any other circumstance, repugnant to the pan up and join to the raging mob. From the ceiling
hung a chandelier, curd-shaped glass pieces prismatic, with oil lamps. Later it was replaced by
oil, but I did not manage to see such a reform. Under the stairs leading to the boxes was a
closed niche blind they called "Don Mateo's box." This Don Mateo'll talk later.

Then let it be known that in such a tracery of theater represented
the same dramas and comedies that the Prince and the operas were sung
at La Scala in Milan.

"It seems incredible, eh? Nothing more true. There he first heard the narrator of this story
those famous verses:

If you hear tell the story of a castaway, Since the earth to the love
you miss ...

Certainly that seemed excellent, and the theater a marvel
of luxury and good taste.

    All in the world depends on the imagination.
    Hopefully I had so much alive and as fresh as ever to entertain you
nicely several hours.

It has also seen the Don Juan Tenorio. And their late wheat flour-smeared, his commander filtering
through a door tied with string, his hell in spirit of wine and her apotheosis of paper lining
trunks, was impressed so that he could not sleep that night.

In the room going, more or less, as in the most magnificent theaters of the Court. However, it is generally
attended by more than they show.

We had not reached that higher level of refinement, by which actions must be pleasant contrast
to the place where they run, verbi-grace, chat in the theater laughing in the churches, go
serious and silent, and pathetic in the ride, as, fortunately, in Madrid. I do not know if Sarrió
have already climbed to the present time this step of civilization.

Neither created missing some spirits so lucid that was ahead of his
time and sensed what was to be the theater in time.

Pablito Belinchón was one of them. Had always paid in the company of three or four friends, the proscenium
stage. From there spoke to other older gentlemen, subscribers in the box opposite: they said
jokes, made fun of the treble or bass, and threw candy and paper darts. Certainly the public
of the seats, still outside the refinements of civilization, used to silence them savagely
with a strong chicheo. The most important families were accustomed to enter in those boxes
hypocritical after the curtain opened with the same solemnity that if they entered a theater audience
at the Royal, and cash with a lot more noise. Not can well imagine the horrid crack that gave him back
to be pushed, and that drop seat with the intention of attracting attention.

Say if the family currently makes her grand entrance in one of them and remains stand shedding
coats, while the spectators amused for a moment view of the scene
and fix them, until they feel.

They are the lords of Belinchón. The head of the family, Don Rosendo, is a tall, thin, bent at the
spine, bald pate, small and sunken eyes, large mouth, which was contracting with a smile Mephistopheles,
showing two rows of teeth long and equal, the most complete work of some established dentist
in a few months ago Sarrió. Spend short sideburns and mustache, and represents sixty years
of age. Is known for the first merchant of the town and one of the first importers of cod from
the Cantabrian coast. For many years monopolized entirely Wholesale sales of this article, not
only in the village, but throughout the province, and thanks a result had gained a considerable
fortune. His wife, Dona Paula ... But why is just so long awake in the theater sound to your
appearance? The good lady, listen, is shaky and unclear, it fails to get rid of the coat, and his daughter
Cecilia is required to remove it and tell the ear: - Sit down, Mom! He sits, or rather, is dropped
on the bench and run a stray from the public gaze, while his cheeks Live crimson stain. In
vain attempts fanning herself with verve and calm. Nothing: the more efforts made by turbulent blood
away from the face, put the damn harder to hold that visible.

- Mom, what color you are! - Venturita tells his youngest daughter, struggling not to laugh.

The mother looks at her expression of anxiety.

- Hush, Ventura, silent .-- says Cecilia.

Dona Paula, encouraged by these words, whispers

- This girl enjoys
but in shame.

And he was about to relent and mourn.

Finally, the public got tired of tormenting her with his eyes, smiles and whispers, and set of new
attention on the scene.

Dona Paula Grief was gradually ceasing, but were it remains overnight.

The cause of this incident was the velvet coat trimmed with fur that good lady had set. Whenever
premiered a piece of glossy appearance, was the same. And this for no other reason than because
it was not Mrs. Dona Paula birth. Came from the kind of cigar. Don Rosendo had had an affair
with her being almost a child, the Pablito whom was born. Still, Don Rosendo was five or six
years without marrying or wanting hear about marriage, but visiting her at home and assisting
her with money. Until finally won over by the love child of the mother, and, above all this,
the warnings of his friends, he decided to turn his hand to Paulina. The population learned
of the marriage until after any: that secrecy was kept to carry out. Since then the life of the
cigarette can be divided into several major periods. The first that lasts a year, ranging from marriage
to "mantilla veil." During this time, Belinchón lady was no less or more in public. On Sunday
morning Mass would and shut himself home again. When he decided to wear the mantle above and go
to church eleven, both in the church in the streets of traffic, peppered looks, and discussed
the incident for more than eight days. The second period lasts three years, includes from "the
mantilla veil" to "gloves." View of this ornament in great hands and red of the former cigar was
indescribable excitement in the female element the neighborhood. On the streets, in church,
on visits, asking the ladies greeted: - Have ?...-- you seen Yeah, yeah, I've seen .-- And I began skinning.
Next comes the third period, that lasts four years and ending "silk dress", which gave almost as
much to grumble as gloves, and there was general outrage Sarrió .-- Tell me, Dolores, what's
left and to do? - Doña Dolores lowered his eyes with a gesture of resignation. Finally, fourth,
the longest of all because it lasts six years, over, oh scandalous! 'With hat. " No one can
represent the thrill of wonder that invaded the town of Sarrió when a certain show was presented
late Dona Paula on the promenade with top hat. It was a real riot. The village women crossed
themselves as he passed and pronounced comments aloud to hear that the person concerned.

- Women, look for your life to what Serena wears on the head lighter!

Because it should be noted that the mother of Dona Paula called it
the Serena, and Grandma and a great-grandmother as well.

Needless to add that since the cigarette rose to the rank of lady, even by accident and gave
it its proper name.

The next day, the ladies stumble Sarrió on the street, finding no words with which to express their
horror, were given for content with raising his eyes to heaven, waving arms convulsively,
and pass by muttering: "Hat!"

Before that bold stroke that has no partner, but with some heroes of old, Hannibal, Caesar,
Genghis Khan, the town was silent and depressed a few months. However, each Once the good
of Dona Paula appeared in public with the abominable hat on or any other article of his own
high rank, was always greeted with a murmur reproach. And the original case was that she did
not protest publicly or in secret, even in the sanctity of conscience, against the evil of their
people come home. Juzgábalo natural and logical. He could not think think that would be otherwise.
Its sociological ideas not yet advised him to rebel against the verdict of public opinion. Believed
in good faith to put on gloves or a fur coat or hat, I made a act
rejected by the divine and human laws.

The whispers, the mocking, were the necessary punishment for this infraction. Hence, their
fears and anxieties every time I went to stand in the theater or on the promenade, and flush the
rushing.

Why then, say, Dona Paula is dressed like this?

Not be very knowledgeable human heart that such a question. Dona Paula put on his hat and gloves
knowingly that would embarrass him as a guy opens the cupboard and knowingly sweet docks then
they have to flog. Those who have not been reared in a village, you never know how tasty treat
is the hat for an artisan.

Dona Paula was high, dry, awkward. When she had been a good girl, but the years, continuous closure,
which was not seasoned, and especially the struggle that had maintained with the public to establish
their hierarchy, had withered prematurely. Still beautiful black eyes kept enclosed in a nice
face and good features.

The first act came to an end. It was a fantastic melodrama, whose name I remember, where the company
had made all the scenic apparatus that was available. Casserole I was amazed, and welcomed
each change of decoration with loud applause. Pablito Belinchón had happened in Madrid a month
last year, laughed incontestable superiority one appliance with smart winking in front of the stage.
And to prove that the whole thing bored him, ended by turning his back on stage and look to twins to
the local beauties. Each time the skin beautiful Russian glasses pointed one, the girl suffered
a slight shudder, changed position, her hand a tremulous little hair to fix it, smiled at his
mother or his sister for no reason is put serious again, and fixed strongly and decisively
their eyes on the scene. But at the moment the fast rising shyly to those beady crystals that
obfuscated. Finally concluded by blushing. Pablito, satisfied, pointing to another beauty. The known
as if they were her sisters, tuteaba to most of them and many had
been boyfriend: but the pen in the air was not more mobile and changeable
in the field he loves.

All had to suffer a painful disappointment. Of late, tired of love to neighbors, had been
dedicated to fascinate many outsiders came to Sarrió, only to abandon, Of course, if they committed
the folly of staying in the village over a month or two.

There are good reasons why Pablito could have his good-natured heart all young Indians and even the
bizarre. He was a young man of twenty-four apuestísimo or twenty years, handsome face and manly,
graceful and elegant figure. Horseback riding and admirably led by a cabriolet or a four-horse
chariot, which no one could do Sarrio more than the drivers.

When wearing the baggy pants, the Pablito seemed skirts, if narrow, was a stork. Came the fashion
of high collars, our Pablito was half the street with his tongue hanging out. Estilábanse low,
as taught to sternum.

These and other eminent authority they did so rightly invincible. Perhaps some will not find entirely
justified the dictatorship love of our youth in Sarrio.

We nevertheless confident that the provincial youth who read this
story logic and judge plausible.

When the curtain fell, a hunched old man with long white beard and glasses, came crawling rather
than walking to the stage of Belinchón.

- Don Mateo!

Impossible you missing - said Dona Paula.

- Why, what do you expect at home, Paulita?

- Praying the rosary and sleep - Venturita said.

Don Mateo smiled sweetly, and replied to that impertinence giving
her a pat loving in the face.

- It's true you should do that, my
dear ... but what do you want? if not I go to bed early I sleep ...
And then I can not resist the temptation to see these faces so cute
...

Venturita pouted disdainful which shone through the satisfaction
of being woo.

- If you were even a cute chick!

- I've been.

- Does
how many years?

...

- How bad, how bad is this girl! - Mateo said laughing and undertaking continuous act a fit of coughing
seized him breath for a few moments.

Don Mateo, decrepit old man, not only spoiled by the years, but by a multitude of ailments acquired a life
of dissipation sick, was the joy of the town of Sarrió. No party any private or public rejoicing
in the village was done without your intervention. He was president Liceo, dance company, for
many years and nobody thought of replacing it another. Also presided
over a music academy which was founded.

He was vocal-treasurer Casino craftsmen. The rebuilding of the theater
where we are it was due, and to reward their discomfort and disbursements,
the City had allowed tilled into the hollow steps in the box closed
with shutters already discussed. He lived on his retirement as colonel.
He was married and had a daughter thirties who still called "the little
girl."

Or created by this that Mr. Mateo was a dirty old man