 When we usually encounter petty beings with souls degraded,
for which self-respect is vain word, if not reach the ears touches the heart, or dyed red
cheeks, saying: "Soul of a slave!" And without wanting to think of a life of misery that debased
the character and spirit trap for fools. Say what you will, that nobility is the only happiness
of the rich. For her, only for her, admiring the world. Everything else that they envy the
crowd is like the crown of tinsel that surrounds the front of the actor. Noble dignity, dignity
enviable places except higher heart clothes!

Observe all those who lived a miserable childhood, in whose home is often missed bread, they
had no clothes to cover the emaciated body that begged ashamed public charity, and not as
a beggar, with quiet directness, but hiding the demand flattering phrase, which became, gradually,
the shy smile embarrassing to the appeal; suggestive of the request to the shameful exploitation,
and from there ... tolerance interested and you will see, whether in wealth, but the mime and society's
wealth has As compensation for a time denied even have hidden in the heart most vinegar and gall
of misery. Hopeless poverty gives character, and its breast hypocritical breed pride, modesty
mocking, malicious cunning, who have flexibilities Viper, the meanness intriguing poisonous
slander and envy all bloodless the greed and everything ugly.

In pursuit of that noble dignity are all souls uplifted, high thinking,
cease heart: the student who strives to conquer worthy place in society,
the merchant spent at work the best years of life, the tradesman who
struggle for life independent.

The desire to achieve it is the only apology that is greed.

My father wanted me that coveted happiness could not achieve their goals, but he inherited the
instinct of pride pride with which I rejected all the time, a boy,
a waiter, and mature man unworthy humiliation, reprimand unmotivated,
the brutal outrage of those who was considered superior to me.

I inherited my mother's placid sweetness for weakness, submission respectful to all acts of justice,
irresistible tendency to feel sorry for the pain of others, and a certain feminine delicacy
that has caused me a lot of bitterness.

Delivered to these meditations spent an hour. Wine sleep, and sweet wine and flattering, as a loving
friend who comes to our call to give comfort, to revive the depressed
heart as a compassionate sister who comes to our bed and caresses
our face, -closed our eyes, inviting us to rest because he knows that
we suffer and we need rest.

XXXIX

The next day, after breakfast, I told my aunt what was happening.

-
And you go! - Cried my aunt Pepa .-- You go and leave us?

- Is necessary.

I realize this must be very painful for you .... I understand, I have
already thought about it, but what to do?

- Now that we are alone,
when Angelina just left ... when after all these years of freedom
has returned to our side!

- Yes, Aunt, I will go, and not by choice.

God knows how painful is this separation! ... But Do not worry you.

It is necessary .... I am bound a. ...

- To live with your aunt! - Said interrupting me.

- I have to meet the needs of you.

- Do not you just what you want in the house of Castro Perez?

Did you ask something you can not us?

- No, aunt, but I can not look calmly working life takes you.

Andrés ago for us what he can, and the poor may soon. I am not ashamed to accept his favors;
but that should not go on indefinitely .... You know the house of Castro Pérez I earn little,
and it is not possible to earn more.

- Well, I think there is your future ....

I could not but smile to hear my poor aunt.

- My future?

- Yes.

-
No, aunt, I would not spend my life writing allegations.

This work is killing me.

Not because rude, but because it is insufficient. I prefer to farm work and the hectic life
of the fields giving health and good humor.

The patient remained silent. Aunt Pepa tried to convince me that I should not leave. We discussed
at length the point, she, living, nerve, unleashing all the difficulties, I pretending that
he had a serenity. Neither the old woman wanted to surrender and I managed to convince her.

- Come on - I cried - that solves my sponsor!

- Yes, my son - said the old woman - it's my turn! Pepa loves you and is made let us drive.
Think you, Pepa, which is not far from us, think that will come frequently, and believes that now,
with Castro Pérez, will do nothing. You go, Rodolfo, I go, and we'll be very happy. Say no more.
Get dressed, I see that as you judge, dress and go to the home of
Fernandez.

Discontent will not get is a very fine person.

Is not it true, Pepa?

- I will, aunt.

- Then you go to the house of Castro Pérez, and alerts you within twenty days, or those are, as agreed,
you have to separate you from there, and you're done!

He added a little tremulous emotion:

- Look, I feel that we leave, but reason dictates that you let me go, that it does not prevent you
you're doing. I am the best day I'll go too, and I will not die when I choke the idea that
because we have lost well-being that we can not give you ....

The old woman's voice was becoming weaker every day, and no emotion is turned off until be imperceptible.
To soothe the sick and leave it alone gave him a hug and kissed her on the forehead.

- No, godmother, we should not grieve! I will come to see you every week. In addition, the
estate Santa Clara is the world's end .... Ya, you'll see his nephew,
How cute and Gallardo is coming, charro dress in a magnificent horse!

You'll see, Aunt Pepa, how elegant and handsome I am with the tight pants, the Jarano gallon, airy
jacket and the pistol in his belt!

And "taca, taca, taca"! There's the ranch! Has arrived! And enter Juana saying: "Lady ...
wine and the charro! "And you, Aunt Pepilla, you'll run to meet me and embrace, or peek out the
window you see me come and see all the girls have to look at me with
eyes wide, as saying: "What reguapo!"

And I will come in, sounding the spurs, and you will become very happy. Y. .. Chas! There is a
stream of dollars!

The patient smiled, smiled Pepilla aunt and I walked around the room,
affecting the brave admirable bearing of a rider.

An hour later I went out of the house of Mr. Fernandez. Presented
the doctor card I obtained perfectly.

The farmer showed me into his office, an elegant piece trousseau. In two of three stayed fixed.

-
I hope you on the fifteenth.

Come for you. Send a servant.

Do you have custom Riding?

- No, sir, I do like a schoolboy ....

The farmer smiled and said:

- Friend: we'll see! ... Riding is learned ....

Then he spoke of my family, my aunts, my godmother's disease, my grandfather, who had tried not
to know how much, and then fired me two words.

- Well, - said - problem solved!

You forgive me ... We journey ... "Like you lunch?

And he rose and led me to the door.

In those moments came the lady.

- Dad!

Blushed when he saw me, and murmured shyly:

- You dispense ....

-
What is it, Gabriel? - Asked the gentleman.

- What time are we leaving?

-
After eating ... unless you want to go out later ....

I waved, and
left.

Linda creature! Although I think I see with that blue dress that seemed A patch of sky, slender,
grace, elegant, simple, moist blonde hair, which tied with a silk ribbon, fell to the back on
a towel very wide. I never seemed more beautiful!

XL

When I reached the office I met the legal expert. Left to go to court.

- Friend: - I said very gestudo and mohino - I'm tired of waiting
.... What happened?

Why what comes to you at this hour?

Remind yourself that duty comes first.

Let your love affairs for the moments to strike.

I was hurt, and mumbled an apology, which did not calm the anger of
Don Juan, but on Otherwise, you impatient, because, interrupting my
excuses, he added scornfully:

- Well!

Well! Do not repeat this! ... I'm going to court.

Tell the girls you I do not wait .... Return between four and five.

Here in my office is a letter .... Copy you!

It was made the hat, and left.

A little, when I was beginning to write, I heard in the hall feminine
voices that distracted my attention.

Luisa and Teresa, (the others were not speaking) appeared in front
of the desk.

They came very pestles and attack.

- Dad! - The blonde shouted,
poking his head .-- lively Dad!

We're back!

Then they learned that Don Juan was out and would not return until
the afternoon, the two girls of brashly slipped into the office, and
sat on the bench of the customers.

Fanned furiously, and looked and smiled as willing to say something they do not fit in the
body.

- Did not steal the time? - Asked the brunette.

- No, miss.

- Really? - Said the blonde.

- No.

- Well then - burst Luisa, - leave the pen and a chat.

- As you like.

-
What you do not know where we come from?

- In the church store, come
buy perendengues and bows.

- No! - Cry out with one.

- I fail ....

-
Guess you !...-- said the brunette.

- Guess you !...-- repeated the
blonde.

- No success, ladies ....

- Do you hear, Luisa?

No hits! Well we know where you were half an hour ago ....

- Ah! It is hard to say. I just came, and you would leave me home ..

- Do you hear, Tere? De .. home!

- Then from there I left an hour ago.

- "So at home, eh? - The brunette muttered .-- From home!

They looked quietly and smiled.

Luisa, to show off her beautiful hands, her hair was made, stating with forks fingertips. Teresa
sat in the seat letting me see your feet, carefully shoes, then slammed
the fan, pretended that he would set the rods, lowered eyes, and after
a pause, he repeated, looking at me straight in the eye:

- "So at
home, eh?

I laughed.

That "So" was the catch phrase of the Miss Castro Pérez, and Villaverde when they spoke, everyone
said "So Castro girls."

- What are you laughing? - Asked the blonde
upset.

- Sure.

You are very malicious ....

- So Home! - Again .-- say you did not
know who lived there in the "pa ... the ... price "of the marquise!

Why not warn you when moving house?

The storm was over.

- You are very malicious. It is true that I was in the house of Mr. Fernandez ... what?

- Go! Go! Confess you ...-- Luisa said, fanning herself.

- No wonder.

You know that business .... I went to collect a signature.

- You!

If we were there .... We pay a visit. Because we were ashamed to see Gabriela. Just imagine that over
a year ago he came here.

Dad said all the time: "Girls ... You already paid this visit? " We did not want to go ... because ...
truth ....

- Do not say, - interrupted the dark - do not say that Rudolph is
interested!

- Goodbye!

And why not?

An owner is to say what they want ....

- Yes, but ... Not everyone! Can not you see Rodolfo ....?

- Tell me, Teresa, you say!

- No, Tere! - Pleaded Luisa.

- Well I have to say! ... Well, go, let ... Miss that we ... hits!

- Why?

- Friolera! - Luisa said .-- Have not seen you so smug and so proud, that all despises, and
that says all we are a clown ... vilaverdinas, some ridiculous.

- Look here, ladies: I think that girl is not proud, nor smug, I think
who did not despise anyone, and that, by contrast, is very nice to
everyone, and insurance is unable to say that you attribute ....

-
You do have to say!

... You defend it because ... Go! Because you are in love it!

- Me, Teresa?

- Yes.

- Who said that?

- Everybody!

Everyone says so!

- Well, 'everyone' says lie.

- Lie? It whipped me in the street, and who do not know in my house!

You say what you like ... but if it is true what they have, you have
to blame for everything, because it makes you a bears terrible ....
Night after night you're going to hear it play .... Are you there
for hours, on the railing of the Plaza.

And so Gabriela, who knows he has ... Au ... auditorium "is not removed
from the piano .... And you are ... (You do not get mad!) Certain
that the poor thing do good evil ... Right, Luisa?

- By God, Tere!
- Said the brunette.

- Shut up you!

Now you see, Rodolfo: we told him to play, and played the "Sonnambula"
in Talberg.

Jesus help us!

What 'Sleepwalker'!

- No, child, no, do not say that .... She played
without expression, without a compass ... but as for running ... Runs
much!

And wanted many of those who call themselves teachers, run as Gabriela.

- Well, look, Luisa, and I grant you that!

Joke What's so bang on the piano?

If what I looked like a dog suit.

And the blonde covered her ears.

- Teresa, by God: ten charity! -
Sympathetically told the brunette .-- Do not talk like that, tell
we say that for ... Envy!

- Do you envy me?

And what?

Me? Thank God I do not play the piano!

- No, but you think you are only repeating what I say.

- And tell
the truth.

Who told me now, to go from there: "Did you see, you hear?

That's not playing! Too bad piano! "Were not you?

Then why do you frighten? I say whatever I want.

You know: as ugly as so frank!

I angered the defaming of those girls so rude and so cheesy.

- Ugly? Not so! Who said you're ugly? I do not say, nor what anyone says, and less ... Ricardo
Tejeda.

Kindled the blonde to hear this name. Ricardo had been her boyfriend, I knew very well, he
told me in college, and Teresa could not forgive my friend who, at
some "end" with it, it has seen much interest to the elegant and charming
lady.

Hence Gabriela hatred, hence murmur of her beauty here that everything
in afeara Miss Fernandez.

- Yes - strongly replied Teresa - I know
that you have a rival Ricardo ....

The cursing was in love with friend
Sora, he wanted his own way, loved him like crazy and could not forget
him.

- Yes, I know that Richard is in love with Gabriel, I know,
and I also know that we will not go with you, or you'll be looking
as before.

Before such good friends!

Now enemies to death!

- Enemies?

Who said that?

- Yes, you pass but do not buy .... But are you calm, Rodolfo, Ricardo is not scary ... Is not
scary!

- See you, lady: if Richard is thinking that I intend to Gabriela, is because some he cheated
.... Someone who wanted to make fun of us ...!

We listened intently Luisa, played with her fan, and he smiled at me hear. Teresa was a pensive
moment.

- Listen, Rodolfo: I want you to do a favor?

- Let's see, what ...?

-
Do you love with this lady?

- No.

- Really?

- Really.

- Well,
you enamórela; enamórela you.

I know women very well, as I am of sex. Enamórela you! I assure you that in two of three will manage
you!

- What about Ricardo? - Asked seriously.

- Ricardo?

How infuriating! Who sends to be silly!

The girls stood up, chattering two or three minutes, and left. At the door stopped. Teresa turned
to me, and malicious tone between pleading and said:

- Rodolfo: enamórela you!

XLI

Pérez Castro arrived a little before five o'clock.

He went silent, he left his hat on the table and staff, and then, step by step, he went to mine:

-
Have you finished the copy?

- Here it is.

Read the allegation, signed and returned to his room. I followed him.

- I want to talk with you two little words.

- What is it?

I told him I was going to be separated, which is why I was forced by necessity, my expenses were
still higher every day, and there I was earning enough to meet my family.

- Come on - I stopped - what is that? Are you upset because this morning ....

- No, - I hurried to answer - I gave you reason to rebuke me.

You are right; duty comes first. No, sir, I assure you that this is not the cause of my separation.
I do not win here what I need, and, of course, I am obligated to ensure that my aunts did
not lack nothing. I have work elsewhere .... They earn more.

Kindled the jurist, he stood on the chair, is composed glasses, and
looking at me above the glass told me scornfully

- Well!

Well! Y. .. know, what use is that?

Are you going to get a school teacher?

- No, sir.

- Well, then?

- I go to the hacienda of Santa Clara ....

- I thought so! The usual! That Fernández has worked to rid the scribes! Well! Well! Do what you
like, do what you suits you, but do not say here you have been underpaid, it's not true! No
one has won here more than you. I will not say I pay a lump sum or anything, because the money
does not come with the rain, but ... you're single, you have no family,
no obligations .... With what you have here ... Is enough and to spare!

Well! Well!

I wanted to reply, but I found it unnecessary to clarify. Pérez Castro continued:

- You will not be happy in Santa Clara. The announcement from now. There, according to news,
work hard, a lot! ... You do not have a habit of killing and, from sunrise to sunset, as a
farmhand. Here's your best, you have free time for all .... Up to verse! Well! Well! And when are
you going?

- Within fifteen days.

- That itself is bad, very bad! Well! Will leave you at your convenience. Today call the substitute.
You shall be free from today!
- I had to stay here, serving you until the day I should be on the
farm, and I wanted ....

- No, young man, no, what is to be late to
be early.

I felt humiliated, and silent.

- See you, young man -
added gently - you stay with me .... He would raise the salaries;
I'll give you five dollars more. I think with that you will not have
problems!

- Impossible, sir! Accepted as the destination, and I refuse
it now seems appropriate.

- You're right. Well! Well!

He opened
the desk drawer, pulled out a handful of coins, I made the account,
both by day as a servant, and gave me a few dollars. I gladly would
I have refused to receive them generous pretext of detachment, but
I needed that money, it was bread and life happy for a few days.

Sad
condition of the poor! - I .-- Sad condition of who is required to
serve another! And then I remembered, one by one, all the bad times
that had passed me in the house the jurist, and where ever I saw not,
although they were few. Mistrust, bad manners, despotic treatment,
reprimands unmotivated, corrections stupid feats of science that had
designed to maintain a credit founded on sand, and, above all, that
distrust offensive insulting, there are some rich towards the poor
that serves and earn little, who fears all evil, and who can offend
with impunity, it is known that the outraged will be silent, because
if you speak and reply, and rejects the infamous energy noble suspicion
will run the daily crust won at the expense of hard labor.

Until
then I stopped lying on the poor, who live on a paltry salary is at
the mercy of those who pay. What will you do if you take to the streets?
What will you do if, injured in his honor and their dignity, protesting
his innocence, and takes his hat, and go? "It will do this! - Says
master .-- What do you eat tomorrow? Have children, wife ... 'And
you trusted in this outraged and runs without piety.

But then my
heart had fallen into a drop of gall. Youth is generous, is good,
and does not believe, does not believe that others are or may be bad,
think that there is only noble hearts and good souls.

Do not forget
or never forget that one day, in the office of Castro Perez, received
a good amount in cash, told and retold coins, I checked with the greatest
care, and were complete. He told them after the jurist, and he was
missing. Trembling out soon and angry.

- Here you need money !...--
burst into loud, in front of Porras and Linares.

I went back to counting
money in front of everyone. Cabalito!

- You're right! - Muttered
Don Juan .-- You dispense!

Don Cosme did not realize what was happening.
Porras step stopped me, laid his hands on my shoulders, I said gently:

-
This man is hopeless! Who sends you spend those ties ... so pretty
Patience, young man! Patience!

Was six, I picked up some papers I
had in the desk drawer, I thanked Castro Pérez for their kindness
to me and threw me on the street.

XLII

Those twenty days were very
bitter for me. More than half a month without gaining weight! Our
costs had risen considerably, had to pay a maid, and was obliged to
buy I do not know why prescribing expensive medicines Sarmiento, and
wine of supreme class for the sick. Andrew, generous as ever, came
to my aid.

- Do not worry - I said - the tenducho goes a long way.
Take!

And handed me a roll of pesos.

I left the house of Castro
Pérez, besides annoying output seemed offensive to me my good name,
I got depressed and discouraged.

All those who saw me on the streets,
without occupation or employment, and before I saw the lawyer's office,
think, without doubt, that Castro Perez was fired for something I
embarrassing. Tell me to ponder on this, and I decided to stay at
home. I spent my day reading, writing and gardening. Plants that Angelina
and I had planted prospered to wonder, the roses recovered their lush
foliage, the tiller which was a violet glory, and the picture of "forget
me not" looked like a plush carpet.

One day, tired of spending time
within four walls, took his hat and went to gathering at the house
of Don Procopio. There were the teachers and the P. Solis. As soon
as I saw my critics began to smile as if to mock me as if I had remembered
since gold and blue in their newspapers