 

But do not kill, first of all beliefs and being a poet. Fried death is not one suicides of men
of genius. But if not killed, he would know revenge, he was a man and when you come down that lieutenant
and require accountability. Kill him, yes sir, kill him, and then what a scene so tragic!
Lieutenant at his feet, pierced by a sword, Amparo, disheveled, weeping, scolding the sky, and
he stood up as giant ghost, bloody steel in hand, and face a desperate smile, hell, crazy, something
to remind the last act of Don Alvaro. And the poor boy clenched hand pressed to his reed, that
his imagination was "Toledo Steel" and thought wildly in Lope de Vega, Quevedo, Cervantes and
Lord Byron, in all the great men who, in the words of Andresito had had bad fleas, and so giving a
thrust wrote.

Ballad calm, cheerful and insolent rascals, but see the flaw, bourgeois kind, Reid like chickens
crowed, silly women who are celebrating the contortions of the puppets! All not know that the
volcano roars a few steps from you, not know that there is a man who prepares the most horrible
of tragedies, and tomorrow, when the newspapers come out in the long list of what happened, you
can not imagine that the beast in human form who killed rival, the Bride and even the mother,
if you decide to go down, was the young "sweet and sympathetic," which, pale as death, was
made a post near the cafeteria.

Yes, kill and die later; was determined. And he looked to the balcony, trying to give your eyes
the most insolent expression of challenge, but was fixed with emphasis on the lieutenant. Had
good back, her brown head was not a victim, his waist hung a sprat
as well as Andresito reports, had among his cronies rough reputation.

He was not afraid, God lives! What had to have? But all things considered, it was a commonplace,
a detail in bad taste, the entanglement to death in the street with a fool no other company
that of the mules of the battery.

No
     sir, his warlike plan
     was scrapped. What would in the Catholic
Youth?

An author who had delusions of enthusiasm caused this ode sweet to the Virgin:

/ * Lord, you know the secret of birdsong .... * /

A man who knew how to make so many nice things, no one argued with porter. Poets otherwise retaliate.
I just lock herself in her immense pain, throw in sad verses the face of the ungrateful, for
it to falter under the most terrible of punishments .... Was determined: abominaría the world and its "vain
pomp ', would retire to a desert, it would monk, but not like those
bearded, smelly and ragged that were on the streets saddlebags neck,
but according to fashion plate: Puffin white and blue, wearing fine
flannel, red cross at the chest and eyes up, as if filase the tender
regret, endless of wounded souls: a faithful imitation of Gayarre
in the last act of La Favorita.

And Andresito, like looking and dressed in white, wandering poetic
jungle, with hair cut in bangs and arms folded across his chest, humming
with sweet and tearful voice: "Spirito gentile ...