 Where is all of a sudden, where the rigidity of winter makes it more desirable, is showing with
more pomp and din, which gives higher rate of self, which shines more benign the throne of
his glory, where it is most admire and which deserves to be admired. Ice covers the rivers
is broken, breaks, and low in fat icebergs into the sea with broken fury. Houses, palaces, huts,
trees and sky, to look back with longing and with love the liquid sheet of water, watched
before and marred by the cold. Candida diadem girds the tops of the mountains will melt, increasing
the crystal streams. Trees, naked green foliage, spring blossoms unexpectedly and shoot fresh
lush, dressing of tender and shiny leaves. The birds come in flocks, guided by unerring instinct.
Turban cranes silence of the night with their shrill cries, when they come forward in symmetrical
and well-ordered phalanx. Thousand swallows and songbirds, returning from his long emigration
wave to soft peep or squeak happy, or trills varied, ancient known houses. The stork wading immigration
from East or Africa, and find the nest the old tower or in the high vantage point of the house.
Maybe there's blonde country girl German put his neck, before it was a romantic film with
a sign. When again, the cops see the girl that answers a mufti of Cairo or some holy man Mecca
with another sign written in Arabic. Meanwhile, the frost has cleared tight covering the fields
and grass and flowers, as if they had been oppressed under that weight appear by magic. Anemone
nemorosa is one of the earliest to open there calyx to announce the Spring. But a thousand flowers,
more fragrant and no less beautiful, appear after calling and exiting the breeze to breathe the
aromas they exhale.

The breeze comes, like the bold prince fairy tale, and goes through
the elusive forest, and enters the palace silently, and goes to bed
and slept in the haunted princess, and gives a kiss of love.

Then he undoes the evil spell, silence and the rest are bartered for sudden death in movement,
music, excitement and life. As if they were to be held divine weddings, upholster and beautifies
everything. They open the treasures unfold finery, put tables and dressers of the royal banquet,
and looks over the wide thalamus cover of purple, emerald and gold. The guests have already said
that pilgrims come from far across the sky. Others who do not pilgrimage, awakening from long
sleep, are lined their richest robes, and go well. All as good subjects, they try to imitate
princes. And as the princes are in love and will marry, all fall in love and marry. It seems
that hardly any living being that does not get drunk with the juice of magical herbs or the perfume
of strange flowers, which move to love, delight and joy, inducing to life which would increase
and spread and open new ways of being. Certain fictions poetic reality seems to have then,
and believe in the dudain, Rachel was looking tired to be sterile in the lotus, which was to
forget all the comrades of Ulysses, and Nepentes, that cheered the soul, and she gave Telemachus Elena.