 Have not stopped some
confusion among the Incas mesmos, because some children of Tupac Inca, have occurred in other
Coya women, wanted to pretend to be [191] the kingship, but the people who Vian was with Huayna
Capac, not consent, but interfered with the punishment that was done. Finish fasting, Huayna
Capac went with tassel very gallant and dressed, and made the cirimonias used by their past, to
which the name of king wore, and so loud voices they said [192]: Inca Huayna Capac Zapalla tucuillacta
Uya, which means, "Huayna Capac only is king Øyan unto him all peoples. "

Huayna Capac was, as they say many Indians saw him and knew of no very great body but bent and well
done, good and very serious face, a few words, many facts was righteous and punished without
restraint. I wanted to be as feared, that night I dreamed of Indians. Ate as they use, and so
lived cycle of women, if you can tell, hear to those who spoke well, and believed very light:
long deprived him of flatterers and flattering, that among them there were plenty, and today
there is no longer, and gave ear to lies, was the reason that many died without guilt. For
the young men who slept meat tempted to their wives or concubines, or with which they were in
the temple of the sun, then sent them to kill to them, and to punish them equally. For those
who punished him by riots and mutinies, deprived of estates, giving them to others, from other
causes, was punishment .-- Many people only desto conceal his father, especially the women, that
when he took one with them, young men said they were .-- His mother of Huayna Capac, leading
lady, wife and sister who was Inca Tupac Yupanqui, called Mama Ocllo say that was of great prudence,
and warned her son that she saw many things to do to Tupac Inca, and loved him so much that
he begged not to go to Quito and to Chile, until she was dead, and so, do you have that pleasure
and obey his command, was at Cuzco without leave until she died and was buried with grand pomp,
getting in his grave many treasures and fine clothes and their wives and servants. The treasures
of the Incas more deaths and estates, which called Chaco, everything was entirely from the first, and
none dared to spend and do not touch because they did not have wars between and needs the money
hobiese of remedy, for where we believe there are great treasures in the bowels of the earth
lost, and so will be forever, if perchance, one, building or doing something else, do not bump
into something much there.

CAP. LXII .-- How Huayna Capac left Cuzco and what he did.

Huayna Capac had ordered Paresce before him to the chief lords of natural provinces, and while
his court full of them, he married his sister Chimbo Ocllo and therefore were big parties,
leaving the crying for the death of Tupac Inca were done. And finished, he ordered him to go
aside up to fifty thousand men of war with whom I wanted to go together to visit the provinces of
his kingdom. As commanded, stood by the work, and left Cuzco with more pomp and authority than
his father, for the litter would be so rich, to the assertions of those who carried the king
on his shoulders, had not price of the precious stones so large and many who were in them, without
the gold that Heran made. And it was through the provinces of Xaquixaguana and Andaguaylas, and associates
of the Soras and Lucanas [193] where embassies sent to many parts of the plains and mountains,
and was answered Dell and others, with great presents and offerings.

He returned from those places to Cuzco, where he was understood to make big sacrifices the sun
and those who had more gods, which were favorable to the day I wanted do, and gave great gifts
to the idols of the buried treasures, and knew of the liars, by the said of demons, or because
they invented it, it had to happen prosperously in days I wanted to do, and would return to
Cuzco with great honor and profit.

This finish in many parts of people came with their guns and captains, by his order, and housed in the
city were provided.

In the building of the fortress was understood, while the styling for this day none reported. In
the plaza of Cuzco was the grand chain of gold, and there was great dancing and drinking; and,
next to the stone of the war, were named captains and bossy, as his custom; and ordering, Huayna
Capac had a parliament, well ordered and said with vehement words, on it were loyal and those
who were with him, as those who remained. Responded that of service not be leaving, which
gave the loo and I hope to make large grants. And being rigged for the day what was needed,
left Cuzco with everyone of war who had gathered, and a big road, so proud as today Paresce,
all here because of what we see and walk by him, walked towards the Collao, showing the provinces
have passed in just the great services rendered him, for they say that It said that the Incas
everything they owe. Understood to know what gave him tribute, and possibility of the province
collected many women, the most beautiful that could be found; Dellas
took for himself, and others gave to his captains and private, the
others were placed on the temple of the sun and stored there.

Entering the Collao, brought him realize that he had large herds of cattle, and how many loads
of fine wool mill were taking a year to those that made the clothes for your home and service.
On the island of Titicaca came in and ordered great sacrifices. In Chuquiabo [194], ordered Indians
were shelves with their suppliers to take gold metal with the order and regiment has been eScript.
Going forward, he ordered the Charcas and other nations to the Chichas bring forth out large
amount of silver pastes, which are taken to Cuzco on your own, without nothing missing; transport
some mitimaes of a party to another, although there were days that were accommodated; ordered
that all work and no loose, because they said the land where there were lazy, did not think anything
but how to find scandals and corrupt honesty women. He went, ordered to build inns and places,
giving his hand the trace; terms distributed to many provinces and known limit, so that, for
aventajallo not should come to blows. His warriors, though much, was so adjusted, that did not come
out the real one step, as they went, the natives provided what is necessary so dutifully, that
was what was left to what was spent. In some places built bathing and other reserves, and the
deserts were great houses. Inca quel everywhere wrong, he had done such things, it is admiration
count.

When they wandered punished without missing ignore anything and pander to those who served
him well.

Sort these things and went from the provinces subjective agora to the Villa de la Plata, and at Tucuman
[195] sent people to war captains to the Chiriguanos, but do not was good, because turned and fled.
Moreover, towards the South Sea, sent more people other captains, to that dominated the valleys
and villages of all his father could not conquer. He was walking with all his people towards Chile,
putting an end to tame, he went, people he had.

He spent much work for the wilds and the snow was a lot of them fell; awnings had to be guarescer
and many yanaconas and women of service. For all these snow was becoming the way, or was done,
and very clean, and posts made by him.

Alleg to what they called Chile, where he spent more than a year in restraining those understanding
nations and entering them in every way, sent to save him the amount stated in ingots gold,
and the mitimaes were laid, and transported many of those people
of Chile some parts in others.

He did, in some places, strong and close to its use, calling pucaraes, for the war that some had.
He walked the earth more than his father, until said he had seen the end of it, and sent to memory
in many places so that in the future understand his greatness, and ways of grown men [196].

Placed
on the reason for Chile, and done what was agreed, put her delegates
and governors, and sent I always notice in the courthouse of Cuzco
what happened in that province.

Encargóles that hiciesen justice and not agree to riot or not to kill clutter free movers give
life to none.

He returned to Cuzco, where he was honorably received any of the city and the temple priests of
Curicancha gave many blessings, and he delighted the people with big festivals made. And nacíanle
many children, who kept their mothers, among whom was born Atahuallpa
second the opinion of all the Indians of Cuzco, who claim to be so,
and his mother was called Tuta Palla, Quillacas natural, while others
claim to be the lineage of the Orencuzcos, and always since he grew
up, went Atahuallpa with his father, and was older than Huascar.

As Huayna Capac hobiese loose a few months in Cuzco, and he coupled hobiesen the priests of the
temples of the oracles and soothsayers, ordered to make sacrifices, and offering of capacocha
was very big and rich, and became well filled with gold of the mockers sorcerers. Each one
gave answer as parescia them that the king would be more happy. Which with other things past,
Huayna Capac ordered it to be understood to make a path real, bigger and wider than where it
was his father, who came to Quito, where he had intended to go, and that the regular rooms
and deposits the posts from switching to it. To that all this land was known to be his will,
left the post to advise and apricots were then sent to meet him, and made a most magnificent
way and seeing that in the world, and longer, because it came out of Cuzco and associates
of Quito and was coupled with I was going to Chile. Like him, I think that since no memory of
people, has not been read from such grandeur as was this road, made by deep valleys and high
mountains, by forests of snow, quagmires of water and live rock and beside raging rivers, for
these parts was flat and paved, well out on the slopes, through the mountains discarded, on the
rocks undermined by the rivers beside the walls, between snow with steps and landings, for all
parts clean, sweeping debris, filled with apartments, deposits of treasures, temples the sun,
he had coaching in this way. Oh! What is true greatness of Alexander, or any of the powerful kings
who sent the world that such a way did, or invent the proveimiento that he had? There was
no road that the Romans did, that passes Spain, nor the others who read, so that with this being
compared. And more recently made himself up time than you can imagine, for the Incas, it took
them to send more than their put people in for work.

General appeal made himself in all the provinces of his kingdom, and came from all over many people,
and filled the fields, and after making drunken banquets and general and put in order the things of
the city, went della Huayna Capac iscaypachaguaranga runes meaning, with "two hundred thousand
men of war," without the yanaconas and women of service had not count
the number of reach.

Mill was carrying two women and left in Cuzco more than four miles.

Had provided the delegates and governors who attended at the heads of provinces, that all parties
to come [with] supplies and weapons, and everything else that is always collected and saved for
when to war, and so all large buildings hincheron and deposits of all this, so that four to four
leagues, the day was understood that they had to find proveimiento for this whole crowd, without
missing, but on more than what they spent and women, and boys and men who served personally
what I was commanded, and carrying the parts of the Inca and the
baggage of the warriors of an inn to another, where was the proveimiento
than in the past.

As Huayna Capac come out on the road by his command had been commanded to do, of Cuzco, walked
until he came to the Vilcas, where stood a few days in the chambers that had been stuck with
his father, and rejoiced to see the sun temple was finished and left quantity of gold and silver
jewelry pastas and glasses, ordered that great care had proveimiento of the virgins and priests.
Sobióse to pray in a gallant roof and cousin that this had been done,
sacrificed, according to his blindness, which used, and killed many
animals and birds, with some children and men, to appease their gods.

This done, he left the place with his people the king, and did not stop until Xauxa Valley, where
there was some controversy and division over the limits and fields of the valley between them
were lords of it thou. Understood as Huayna Capac, after having made sacrifices, as in Vilcas,
sent along the lords Alaya, Cucichuca, Guacaropa [197] and between them fairly divided the fields
the way you are today. At Yauyos sent embassies, the same made to the Yuncas, and to Bonbon
sent some gifts to the natural lords of the land; because, as they had strength in the lake,
swimming parties, speaking loosely, and rigor would not talk with them to see yours. Xauxa lords
made him great services, and some of the captains and warriors were accompanying him, and
walked up Bonbon, where it stopped short, because he wanted to go to Cajamarca, more rigged
place to rest and provinces neighboring towns with large and very
high.

And by the way people always came to major embassies and present.

As he arrived at Cajamarca, stopped a few days to rest from the road, and commanded that his
people War will host the round of that land, and eat what they collected in the tanks was,
and with the people who entered the Guancachupachos paresció, and had a fierce war, because
they were not quite there in the natural grace of his father and compliance, but, both could,
raided and subjugated it, putting governors and captains, and choosing the natural gentlemen,
to send in the land, the ones they paresció, for them, old masters knew not to others which, being
more powerful, rising and acaudillaban to make war, and gave peace when they wanted. Found in Chachapoyas
Huayna Capac high resistance, so much so that twice thwarted fleeing back to the strong that they
made their defense, and favors that came before turning on Chachapoyanos and so broke, they
asked for peace, stopping the war on their part. God conditions helpful to the Inca, who sent
many of them to pass that he himself resided in Cuzco, whose descendants now live in the same city
took many women, because they are beautiful and graceful and very white; put garrisons of soldiers
mitimaes ordinary men, to be by border, left in the main governor of the region, provided what
more they used; punished to many leading, because they gave war, which indeed is to Cajamarca
again, where he continued his journey, and put in order Caxas provinces, Ayahuacas, Guancabanba [198]
and others that confine them.

Public is among many natives of these parts that Huayna Capac went by land Bracamoros call,
and turned to escape the fury of men who dwell therein; the leaded whom had gathered to defend
and who the angry to be, and, without Cuzco apricots, consider this the lord of Chincha, and
some major and Collao Xauxa. And they say all that going Huayna Capac finishing settle those lands
where his father passed and he had subdued, he knew how in many men and had Bracamoros women
who had fertile land, and deep inside the earth had a pond and many rivers, full of large populations.
Covetous of discovering and willing ladies, taking paresció the people who, with little baggage,
he had to walk away, leaving the field stay by real drums, and entrusted to the captain general.
Entering the earth, were opening [199] Asaz the road with work, because after the snow-capped mountains
of the promontories, gave in the mountains of the Andes and found raging rivers to go, and
fell from the sky many waters. All was not party to the Inca cease to arrive at where the natives
of many parts positions were waiting for her strong will, where he showed his nakedness, afeándole
His coming, and started the war each other, and many of the barbarians were combined, the most bring
naked without clothes, to what was stated, that the Inca were determined to withdraw, and did
without gaining anything in that land. And the natives who felt it gave him such a hurry that
in stride, sometimes making the face, sending sometimes present, descabulló them and set back
fleeing to his kingdom, saying it was to avenge the pintail; which he said, because Some wore the
maures [200] long they hung down over her legs.

From these lands, which had already renovated, also says that people sent captains which is sufficient,
for them to see the coast of the sea that had to the North, and to endeavor to his service to attract
the natives of Guayaquil and Puerto Viejo, and that they walked by those regions, where war had
some battles, and in some cases were winners, and others not at all, and so he walked up Collique
where people encountered who were naked and ate human flesh, and had the habits that have and
use today the neighboring towns of San Juan river, from where they turned, not wanting to move
on, to give notice to their king, who with all his men had arrived at the Cañar; whither he
was thankful in the extreme, they say birth [201] there, and you have made great buildings and
drums, and much provision, and sent ambassadors to him should come and see the regions, and many more
will come ambassadors with presents.

I have understood that, for some noise that tried to certain towns in the region of Cuzco, I felt
so much that, after having removed the heads to the principal, expressly commanded the Indians in
those parts of the stones brought from Cuzco the amount stated, to do in some quarters Tomebamba
much delicacy, which he brought to the ropes, and His commandment was fulfilled. And he said
many times Huayna Capac, the people of these kingdoms, for keeping him well subdued, proper,
when they had to do or to understand them a mountain pass from one place to another and even from
Cuzco carry stones and slabs sent to buildings of Quito, which today are in buildings that put.

Huayna
Capac Tomebamba came and went through the Puru, and rested a few
days in Riobamba, and Mocha and The Tacunga rested his men and had
much good to drink the concoction that was rigged and collected them
everywhere.

Here was greeted and visited many lords and masters of the region, and apricots sent was that
of his lineage [202] to which they were along the coast of Los Llanos and the mountains to take
account of quiposcamayos, which are its accountants, in what was in the tanks, and to which
they knew how they had with the natives the nickel had made governor, and if they were well supplied
with the temples of the sun and guacas oracles and that was in every place, and sent messengers
to Cuzco in the ordering the things you sent and left everything to fulfill his will. And there
was no day that does not e came, not one or a few, but many, of Cuzco, the Collao, Chile and
all his kingdom.

De La Tacunga walked until he go to Quito, where he was received,
in his own way and style, with big parties, and gave the governor
of his father's treasures, which were many, with fine clothes and
other things that were under his charge, and honróle with words, praising
his loyalty, calling father and always according to estimate how much
his father and he had served.

The Quito to neighboring towns sent many presents and provisions for the king, and ordered
in Quito be made more and more strong quarters that had, and then stood by work and there were
those who found when the land our won.

Some of the dried state, which Huayna Capac returned from Quito to Cuzco by Los Llanos to Pachacamac,
and others not, it was in Quito to death. In this, inquerido What is more certain, according to
the porn as I heard, some principal that is found for his people
with him in this war, they say, that while in Quito, we came from
many parts ambassadors to congratulate him on behalf of their lands,
that have, and having taken [the] very safe and peaceful [so] to the
provinces of the mountains, he thought it would be okay to do day
to the provinces of Puerto Viejo and Guayaquil to what we call, and
to the Yuncas, and taking counsel with his captains and main, approved
of his thought and advised to put him to work.

Quito were in many of its people, with which agreed and departed, and went through those lands,
where some residents had with some Dellas skirmishes, but in the end, both groups were in his
service and made them Governors and mitimaes.

Puna had a fierce war with Túmbez, and the Inca had ordered an end to the strife and to receive
him in the Puna, which Tumbalá felt much, because he was lord of it, but he dared not to stand
against the Inca, before it was engaged or present with false peace, because, as it came, procuring
the land natural, tried to kill many apricots with with a raft captains were going to go to a
river to take the mainland, but Huayna Capac it knew and what I have done in Part eScript chapter
LIII, and great wrath, and sending to the road, or safe passage, that is called Huayna Capac [203],
turned and stopped at Tumbes, where buildings were made of the sun temple and they came the counties
to do him reverence with humility.
