 Yerbales When the people are in season, are engaged in profit of the grass,
as in everything else, each which may or reach their forces, and so in other tasks under agriculture,
which is intended for half the time, and the other half to come to their particular fields, and
provide their livelihood. But although regularly said that the Indians left them half the time for
their particular work, as the community curtailed many days, so just be left with the third
part for them.

Indian women regularly engaged in spinning for the community, which are dealt two work week,
or three when the need calls. In each task are given ten ounces cotton to bring three of thread,
and try not otherwise occupied, but in the chances of tents and the like, intended for them,
if not all, the most robust and are not pregnant or parenting, and hoeing will not be exercised
in spinning.

Indian crafts, such as linen weavers, carpenters, rosarieros and others, always remain more
out of habit than useful work in their offices on time they must do for the community, and the remainder
going to their farms, which must have them, otherwise it could not exist. Only more weavers remain
in their offices, which is not allowed to depart until the conclusion of the piece started,
and then given five yards of cloth and one or two weeks off, to go to their farms, and then return
to their occupation.

A people who have 300 Indians working, and corresponding number of Indian boys and girls, with
an administrator of conduct, you can regulate the harvest of a good year in the following fruits:
800 pounds of cotton, as many of grass, 100 bushels of wheat, 200 of all other species of grain,
including corn, 50 pounds of snuff, as many groups, and 15,000 yards of linen. As you know,
with the exception of the paintings, that yarn is the work of the Indian, everything else can
be verified with 25 or 50 laborers distributed, mostly in the villages whose land is very fertile,
and abounding of oxen and all measures favorable to the tasks, but spend only strip time, as manifest
to you.

As the rooms are the main nerve that ensures the survival of peoples, has placed on them and
put the chief care, and in fact has achieved the most are in an advantageous compared to state
that now had ten years and, while admiring good governance are now compared to then aged, who can deny that
it is perjudicialísimo the large number of Indians in every room? At least there are 30 Indians,
which their women, boys and girls regularly go 70 people, but do not have to look up to 20,000
animals of all species, when it comes to a dozen Spanish laborers would be well served by such
a stay. So consumed every year more than 400 cattle, calves out of stealing, and just have
to be many, when it never passes err the sixth of the cattle there, even though I could reach
at least the quarter. But there is no discretion to remedy this disorder in these circumstances,
because, of wanting to push, then experiencing dropouts.

Each week is given, two or three days, serving of meat in town, according to the possibility
him. Regularly killed for every one hundred people a bull, and offal of all distributed boys and girls.

In
addition to the animals that are distributed on ration, are killed
each day one or two cattle for daily consumption of the priests, administrators,
patients, mayor, stewards, of offices, and usually the servants of
the college which are in large numbers.

Several animals are also consumed in the tasks of community because
they are given regular lunch at noon, or leave work time, mostly when
the task is somewhat heavy.

So that a people which has 300 Indians can work regular consumption 2,000 cattle a year.

Similarly all that collect beans are consumed to feed the boys and girls and supply some to plant.

In
the villages which are well attended each year are given clothing
for boys and girls the disabled, old men and women, and regularly
shout them naked, which are those and those that are of benefit to
himself or to the community, whose relief, and the shrouds, they also
may regulate the use of an Indian village in the number suggested
at 4,000 yards a year.

They are also given ration of grass, but the people who do not pass more than 300 arrobas year.

Other fruits and very little effect enjoyed by Indians wheat, snuff, honey, sugar benefited or purchase,
edible Buenos Aires next purchase with the wealth of the Indians, all consumed in the main
house, only the mayor, the town hall and patients enjoy some shortness
of these effects.

This is what the people better groomed and better attend to the Indians, distribute annually, whose
fruit, value regulated prices uploaded by these peoples can up to 5,000 pesos, which, adding
the actual taxes, tithes, administrator salary and expenses of the
church, may be counted all the expenditure at 8,000 pesos per year.

A village of 300 working Indians may have 1,200 souls among young and old, with which bearing in mind
that from five years to work up all they can, and that boys and girls
do not have days off can be regulated in 800 workers employed half
of the year to benefit the community, dividing among them the 8,000
pesos cost accurate, up to 10 pesos each.

But what can you exercise on an Indian or India in this province so fertile and such proportions,
that working with a median application does not produce its work at least 40 or 50 dollars
in half a year? Add you that the product of the stays, reaching 20,000 head of cattle, has to
pay, out of expenses and costs 3,000 pesos at least every year and you will find pre-empting the
people is, or because of these natural inaction is great, or because consumption and waste
from the main house is large either case, as manifest in place.

So far I have referred to you just the way in which govern these people without express the humiliation,
oppression and violence suffered by the natives, all result needs of the community living subjects,
this matter is of such consideration should treated by other more eloquent pen than mine, but
I write only for you, you know put in better order than I will Noticiaro misalignment. Again
take up the thread from the outset, for clarity and intelligence.

Since the owners of each village government by a secular administrator to take care temporality,
and two religious doctrine to the Indians, were administered sacraments and serve the direction
of their souls, divided command, before was one person who cared for the spiritual and temporal.
These men were elected and appointed officials as they found, most
were very young men, and without prudence or knowledge.

The Indians, accustomed to obey only their priests, they looked at first with indifference administrators
as dictated to them, so that nothing was done without first the father. These principles were
born the great discord among priests and administrators, and contributed largely to the ruin
of nations, as Don Francisco Bruno complaint de Zavala in the representation made to His Majesty
the year 1774. The priests were homeowners major colleges named, not allowing them to live in managers;
did the same thing with the gardens and orchards, all intended to provide at its discretion; and
as the Indians were on their side getting as they pleased. Procurose remedy these reckless
claims of some religious orders of government, but not a step ahead of it without causing the
Indians many vexations and annoyances; because addicts always obey the religious, not to influence
them ceasing their maximum breach of peace, the rigor needed to use them to hold them to the
government.

Consiguiose at last made known to the Indians only in things pertaining to salvation should pay careful
heed to their priests, and the rest to their managers, but not This cessation of discord between
administrators and priests, because as each other live in the same house and with some dependency
in office, never made up in their distributions. The priests wanted the Indians attended every
day at Mass and the rosary, when they wished, which was often quite
unexpectedly, administrators it prevented, sometimes rightly and sometimes
without, and what was that the priest was sent spank those who obeyed
the administrator and the administrator to those who obeyed the priest;
and each other punishments were executed in the wretched Indians,
no more guilt to obey to better accommodate them to obey, even the
magistrates and council members themselves were not free of such abuses,
which not infrequently were beaten and abused by priests and administrators,
not knowing which party snuggle.

This persecution is not so much in the day, and, although time and again experienced, not to fuss.

Minor
and specific grounds were lighted every day, yet light, great discomfort between priests and
administrators, as people have an obligation to feed the priests, and this is done by administrators,
they, being at odds as regularly happens, have the opportunity to take revenge on the priest making him
wait, giving the worst and low, and other means dictated by the spirit of revenge. It is not
always right priests to complain, they ask that the food is so abundant that they about to
give eating, in addition to the boys who serve them, six or eight often added to them.

As in the villages there are no teachers of trades that work for those who want to buy their
work, or even a pawn can cahoots without reporting to the administrator, because everyone subject
to the community, nor the Indians know how to sell their work, nor is how to meet the precise
needs, the practice is observed: if an employee needs a pair of shoes, called the shoemaker,
gives the material and then tells him shoes, he makes and carries
it and if you give something the recipient, and if it is not asking
for nothing, as does with all other needs.

If the priest took the shoemaker or other, is wrong with the manager, if it knows, they immediately
dispatched to the work of community, that slows or do not work, then you know the cure, and
is armed zambra, and all the result pay the Indian or Indians, who pursued because others protected.

Although the ordinances are prevented for the church service is intended for a sexton and three
singers, what is done is that these ministries were occupied by two
older sacristanes with three or four children and ten or twelve boys
to acolytes, with over an infinite of musicians who, although the
latter does not cease to engage in other things, it is always necessary
have some on hand for what is offered, and not being ready, or just
seeming to cure those attending, and there fight on that strip to
ruin the divine worship.

Also there are common on some priests want to be busy all day and acolytes sacristans on their
behalf.

Indian goods are treated as their persons, distributed them with the greatest shortage among
the Indians in need, and even sick, spent with the greatest profusion, no Spanish as only between
employees but also with how many passengers arrive, and perhaps for no reason people stop in the
days they want, providing few comforts they crave, what they receive as a matter of justice that is owed,
and Doing so will not show managers complaining of not being treated (say) as they should,
and although the government has made some provision for this, have no effect assortment.

Employees regularly have one or more Indians to take care of every kind of fruit or effects of those
who work or benefit, but yet it is amazing what is wasted and lost, either through incompetence or
neglect of the Indians, or abandonment of the administrators. Who would believe that reaching
2,000, and even more, the animals that are consumed each year in a village expended all of them
leather bags and other ministries? Well this is so, all leave lost and can sell your benefit and
enhance the assets of the community. The The same is true with everything else, finding means
to remedy.

For the administrator and religious, which has the obligation to feed people, there are occupied
within the school more than 50 people. You will seem weighting because it is not, and if you
do not mind: for one or two wheat almudes kneaded each day are used two or three atahoneros,
where atahona, that where there is not used at least six and four or six bakers, in the kitchen
used at least six, and if the religious cooked, set aside many others, two gardeners at least,
two water carriers, four or more of refectoleros and one or two caregivers for each individual
horse. All week they alternate with other many, and neither work for the community because the
bye week is to them; add to what you guys servants who each have
two at least, and you will see what counts as bulging out.

Besides this, every Saturday is to bring each person a stick to the wood consumption in the week.

Which
also indicates the ease with which dissipate the assets of the Indians is in the annual festival
of the patron saints of the villages. Not lower than is spent in the most reduced value from
300 to 400 pesos, and they enjoyed the least are the Indians, to which only gives flesh in abundance
these days, and some short fiddle that is distributed; but for the religious, administrators
and others who attend Spanish as well as for lieutenant governor or, if they attend, there are
abundant and delicious food, and gifts called tupambaes.

This custom is established or abuse of, and practiced in the time of the Jesuits, and although since
then I was disgusted and gave it to understand, as I was requested to continue in whole method
of my predecessor, and I saw in the villages and the immediate command of the Governor as
in other lieutenancy practiced the same, I did not see fit to make me Quiet on one thing that has
infused the Indians, who make a great gift to the holy from that day and shared some of their
assets among those who do not need it, and it would be better give it to the needy, and are
offended if anyone refuses to receive your gift, in short, This goes on until God provides a remedy.

Many
other evils and prejudices are still the Indians and their property in their persons, but not
so common and often are ignored, but it must be noted that the damage mentioned so far, but have
their origin in the attachment to the community, increase the has led to the negligence or
bad conversation of some of those who manage and direct, and so has
not been in all the towns like disorder, but some more than others.

But who now shall speak common to all peoples, and in my mind irremediable although in all
ministries, which employ men desirable, because these evils are inseparable from the state
they are reduced by the community, and may only free himself of them out of this total extinction.

After
the boys enter the age of 4 to 5 years, and takes charge of the community, which has appointed two
or more Indians to name mayors and secretaries of the boys; they have booked for, and take care
of gathering all day in the morning early, perhaps at dawn, take them to the door of the church
to pray, there they can to Mass is said, and then distribute them to their jobs or occupations
are identified, and leaving the town apprentices early music and lyrics, the weavers' and other
offices, drive the remaining tents, or the work they have said, to 2 or 3 in the afternoon again
and have brought together, until, having prayed the rosary in the church, allow them to return
to their homes.

The choice of occupations or places that are given to boys, it is not the will of its parents,
but of those who govern or in need, for music it chooses the master
those that seem most on purpose, the priests used the best seems to
acolytes and his servants, the same in other trades and occupations,
without their parents is the discretion of disgusted.

But they do not cause any feeling, because, as they were raised with the same education, and know no
other, living as detached from their children when they arrive to that age is not no care for them,
or try pointing the Christian doctrine and morality, or the food and clothing. If you do not
come home at the time that release their caregivers, either the requested or sought, even if they
were fleeing the town diligence to find them and bring them, they are considered careless of
everything, and still have worthy of rebuke if they took charge that care. The same goes for
girls, which also are in charge of two or more old Indians with the same title of mayors and
secretaries; them to ten or twelve years have no other occupation than hoeing, picking cotton
harvest time and other agricultural occupations for their age; and
on reaching that age is applied (when there is not much to do in the
farms) to Hilen, without caring for any other teaching them, for,
although the seam is so characteristic of sex is rare that even poorly
known sewing, and these offices are regularly sacristans and musicians
everything else is done with girls as with boys, until they marry.

You already know that this education is impossible to maintain honesty, even with idea of ??this
virtue, and lost to the native modesty, walk freely where they want, without their parents being
hindered because they do not have power in them very young prostitutes, and delivered to the vice of
incontinence, so that when they marry and are relaxed, and even loss of fertility, thus significantly
undermining the population.

As in all times has been so prevalent among the natives on flog, so
has lost the horror of flogging, punishing both as those who are punished,
or that see them, any motion will cause whipping, flogging or execute
him, and so punish with the greatest inhumanity to creatures in all
occupations to the audience, accustomed thus to suffer with the greatest
indifference flogging, in any time or age.

With this separation or alienation experienced by parents of children, and in his imagination
have it so early that raise them from birth to one destination, has no place in them the love I
see in parents who have grown up and raise their children with the education system and are usually
among the Spanish, and so, even if they see abuse their children, they get little or no care, and
just as children watch their parents, and that neither need nor expect anything from them.

After the kids reach the age of getting married, not much retard check, and because their parents
or tell the priest to marry, or because the stimulus of lust encourage them to do so. Most are
married with telling them to marry, since even in this have such a captive's will not dare to make
that choice to be his wife.

Since getting married and he and she, out of the power they had and enter another. At Secretaries
of men played since then have in your registry to male and female to it.