 Would be the prudent give
him a lie too fat, too fat, a lie that I tear the guts, but save me. "

"I want yes or no?" - Said the fierce impatient and brutal curiosity.

Torment said: No. And he said with his mouth and head vigorously, as children make its first human
trials in the farce. To say, his whole being revolted against such egregious falsehood, and the
lips that had been noticeably pronounced bitter. Approached plus gross chair. She could not leave
because he was on the couch, sitting back the window. Would willingly embedded in the wall or
partition to escape the threat loving country that figure, he was already so repulsive. View
approaching the brown cloth, beard anger and rabbit fur hat, was
like seeing the devil that he was going up.

"That's what I figured I - Polo said taking his hand, which she wanted and could not remove -.
I know the familiar, I've seen him once.

It is a poor man, good-natured but short scope. We handled as you want, if you are ready, we shall
rule as a child is governed and do all your holy will. "

The intention that these words reveal, not conceal the unhappy young man who had more fear.
But natures under rudísimas evidence suggests that the danger occurs resource of salvation,
and that the excess of Terror to the abduction of value arises, the law of the reactions. Understanding,
therefore, Torment, for that hint of the ideas and words of your enemy this would lead to a
solution criminal and disgusting, felt tremors of dignity and protests
of the innate honesty of his soul.

He looked at the gross, and it seemed so odious, that between die fighting and the torture of
him and chose to treat first.

His wound instinct as a whip, he rose quickly, and without disguising his anger spake thus:

"In
order ... "This is just or not?

I have come to know if you let me quiet or want to conclude with me. "

- Calm, quiet girl - she murmured, turning pale Polo -. You know that I do not get anything bad.
For good, all you want ...

Torment made an effort to have prudence, tact, skill. Wiping tears who came to her eyes, said:

"You
can not wish me to be a miserable, you want me to be a good woman, dignified, honored. You
have done bad things, but do not have bad heart you leave me alone, do not pursue more, go away
to the Philippines as you thought and not the saint never remember my name. "

- Oh, poor Torment - he exclaimed with great bitterness -. If it could be so easily as you
say ... You said I'm not a pervert. How wrong you are! Back in those wilderness, several times
I was tempted to hang from a tree, like Judas, because I I sold it to Christ. Sometimes I despise
as I say, "Is not there a nobody, an unknown, a bystander, as he passed me, slap me? ". And I will
speak plainly. While I was religious hypocrisy and actor and had
no iota of faith.

After I threw the mask, I believe more in God, because my conscience uproar shows me more than
my conscience peacefully. Before preaching on hell without believing in it, now that I name, I
think that if does not exist, God must do it specifically for me.

No, no, I'm no good. You do not know me well. What I ask now? Leave you in peace ... Why look at
me when I watching?

To this question, the terror of the timid rose point. The things on his mind habríanle passed produced
a sudden death if the human brain was not built Explosion-proof,
as proof of guilt heart.

"What I looked? - Repeated brute with the energy of passion, supported
by logic -. Your pretty face what he said? Do not you remember? I
do. What do you say? ". 

Given this logic hack, without removing
the woman succumbed.

"The things I heard are not heard without derangement
of the soul. And now, what you mad I want to replace as it was ?...».

She
began to mourn as a child when you're stuck