 The vine, the vine and honeysuckle bush, barely covered between three
full extent of the wall, bristling with broken glass on top, which served as impregnable bulwark
against foxes and little boys.

This reduced the landscape, in addition to the vast and ever-beautiful
sky, so splendid day as imposing and mysterious night.

The pen (why should not we give it life?) Lay, as we, along with several objects rather ignoble,
own the place, and constantly exposed to be trodden by the barbarian
plant geese, chickens and even other little animals but clean and
decent had room in a nearby swamp.

I must not say that the pen must be very boring, as if a soul have delicate, air and supple body,
the consequence is that the soul could not live happy described in the corral. By a mysterious harmony
between the elements of that be if the body looked like a ghost of matter, the soul had been
created to fly and soar heights, rising to the longest distance possible on the ground, in which
ever mud should touch the lace of her subtle almost imperceptible cover. For this was born certainly,
but it, like us men remained predestination an empty word. Was the poor in the corral, lamenting
his fate, staring at the sky, without distraction in the wind see the whites of her clothes
festoons undefiled, and saying in the unknown language of feathers: "I do not know how annoying stand
this life. It's better to die a hundred times.

"

Other equally sad lot said, but at the same moment a gust of wind who put in turmoil all straw and
small objects thrown in the pen, the suspended, Unexpected oh joy! raising it on the ground more
than half a yard. For short time was fluctuating back and forth, threatening to fall at times
and going back others with large din of the chickens, who saw this white thing was walking
through the air such majesty, went behind her waiting for her in the fall, hoping it was something
eating. But the wind blew more loudly, and with a strong swirling around the campus the pen,
drew it out quickly. When she saw higher than the wall, higher than the house, the chestnut,
the height of poplar, trembled all over with excitement and admiration. Arribita there, the wind
swayed, holding no violent shaking, seemed to sway in visible hammock or in the arms of a loving
genius. From there, what a sight! Down the pen with chickens scratching constantly restless,
the garden, the house, the chestnut trees poplar, how small what once seemed so big! Then, the
whole expanse of beautiful Valley village of houses, trees, flowers, cattle, in the distance
the mountains with their slopes covered with forests, red and blue eminences and peaks encaperuzadas
with a whiteness in which our traveler thought he saw huge piles of feathers above the endless
sky, the morning sun making bright colors throughout the landscape, water scribbling ray of light
producing reflections quivering in the foliage of the elms, and reverberating in the crops straw
scattered here and there patches of poppies. This itself is called live! Tremendous thing would
be to fall back into the corral.

The pen, at the height of his joy, found no better way to express it spinning on its axis, so
that although its members orearan wet and shivering, bathed in the sun fluffy, cupping with
some tiny fringe vanity that your body is composed. The sun shone in between the interstices
of one thousand wonderful fit, and our traveler was seen threads of glass dressed more tenuous
than that spiders tend branch to branch, and covered with diamonds, emeralds and rubies ranging
from light to every move, and so tiny, the grains of sand mountains
appear at his side.

Extending the view of the valley, the mountains, the horizon, and wanting to cross it all to the end,
was in the pen work of a moment. His amazement and joy knew no bounds, and if at first surprise
kept at that height, rambling, without detracting from their status First, after a bit and feeling
Serenada on his chest (?) the fire of enthusiasm, was launched in the immense space, genie arms.
Gone pen, house, village, the tower of the church, as a giant panicked, was walking too large
to miss Zanchetta of view. In the excitement of that giddy flight, the pen sometimes rose so high,
I could barely distinguish objects, others down to almost to the ground, and looked their fleeting
image in the green surface of the puddles. Sometimes going back then, that seemed confused with the
clouds and disappear into the vast ocean of space down sometimes Therefore, it very nearly touched
the ground, and in language unknown to the wind said: "Put me down a little friend, I get dizzy
at these heights, "or" please pick me up, buddy, I'm going to fall
in that quagmire.

"

The wind, compliant vehicle, up and down as desired, always walk, and spent valleys, rivers,
mountains, hills, towns, without stopping. On their journey, the pen never stopped admire what
he saw. The birds spent singing along to it, the butterflies stopped, watching her in amazement, we
fail to understand if it was a living thing or object carried by the wind. When they were near
land and went skimming over brambles and thorny plants, you'd think all bristling barbs and claws
to get it, and fly over a pond, geese returning from the bank's head sideways at her, and hopefully
to see her fall, ran screeching after it: - "Lift me up, buddy,"
he cried, refusing to hear these barbarians.

"

CANTO FIRST

And rose to the top of the mountain, passing the ridge, and traveled another valley, and so all
the way, never stopping. Both walked the pen, feeling satisfied their curiosity, swirled, gave
a few turns on itself, and told the genius that drove:

"You know we've run enough? Do not be chosen in place to take a break? Ay, friend! Although he wanted
to leave the pen to travel the world, you believe that what I like is the quiet and peaceable
life.

For a moment I thought that happiness is to fly from here to there, seeing different things
every minute, and receive different impressions. And I'm convinced it is better to remain quietly
in one place a not be as ugly as poultry, live without fear or danger. I see there, near the
river, large trees, which I think the most beautiful place we found on our trip. "

Drew near and saw indeed that the shade of those trees was the site most appealing and delicious
than a pen could aspire to spend their days. Fine lawn covered the ground near the river ran
with gentle flow, not so quick to drag and Turning the soil of the green margins, nor so slow that
muddied the waters: easy was to count all the stones from the bottom, but not the multitude of fish
that wander over its transparent glass. The branches of trees, living sifting the sunshine,
kept in warm darkness the small meadow, and from there all the insects had fled importunate and dirty,
and all birds irrelevant and frivolous.

The few things that were there pitch or with a permanent residence, were the most learned and
distinguished of creation: insects dresses gold and decorated with
wonderful jewels, birds sang sentimental and discrete their love in
courtly style, and only at certain hours of the morning or afternoon.

It was noon, and all were silent at the top of the branches, entertaining spirit in abstract meditations.

'Fresh
and beautiful place this is! - Said the ruffled feathers of enthusiasm to be there .-- Here I spend
my whole life, all, all, I repeat not safely complete range of purpose.

Wandered beneath the shade of the trees, sliding on the cool grass, when he saw approaching a shepherd,
guiding two dozen sheep with the odd lamb, and a dog that served custody and companionship.
The pastor was concerned, walking, weaving a crown of flowers that brought on the side, and such
was her beauty, grace and elegance, the pen was absorbed.

He sat the girl, and the pen again soaring through the air, spun around his admiring up close and from
afar, and the whiteness of complexion, and expression and brightness eyes and black hair, and
his lips turned on, each and every one of the perfections copy of such creature.

"Here I have to be a lifetime - the traveler exclaimed in his convoluted language .-- This really
is live. I never tire of looking at it, but live a thousand years. What I have done well to settle
here ... and what a great thing to love!

Thank God I've found happiness. How sweet he spends his time looking at her, now and then and
always! What pleasure equal to that of skim her hair and stroking her forehead with my flequitos?
What I can be more ambitious than let me slip from his neck to sneak ... I do not know where, or
hide in your clothes and meat tickling estarme there for all eternity? This drives me crazy ...
and indeed I am madly in love.

Here and not away from it for a moment, I spend all life. "

The pen was flying and falling away around the pastor, until he came
to rest gently on his shoulder, and he made a thousand grimaces and
fuss with their fringes.

He saw the girl that object White, who at first tried to be anything but delicate falling branches
of the tree, and took her, squeezed between his fingers and threw it from him with contemptuous
indifference. A while later called to his flock and left.

Much took our unfortunate traveler return from his swoon. He opened his eyes in vain sought
the object of his tender passion, recognizing the site, shaking his bruised sockets and broken,
and gave the wind its complaints in this way:

"Oh, little wind, get me out of here, for the blessed souls, lift me up, I am dying of sadness.
I want to run again, as I now understand that happiness does not exist in what I thought.
Good silly I was! Love is not only fatigue and pain. Just love that I know tired and what it
brings. We'll fly again, and go where you want, buddy. I really I say that I carry these trees
and the river: I'm already up to the crown of lawns, meadows, streams
and birds.

Let us make a turn into the world.

Lift me: I go up clouds. That is, the way I like: Lift me up all
you can.

Look, there in the distance is reached to see a house that has to
be very large: Do you see how bright the sunlight, as if it were silver,
and next is again and again, many, many houses?

No doubt that is what called a city. That's what I want to see. Thank God I find what I like.
Let's go right there, and let us hills and valleys, places unfit for this my genius ... Now, now you
look closely the city. In this magnificent palace that we first saw we have to put. Run, run
more, which I do not think we ever.

NOTE:

[1] Sorry oh reader! was about to commit the irreverence to call this poem.

SECOND CANTO

Soon found themselves near a palace of marble, so great and beautiful that even the same mysterious
genius, that led to our friend, he was preoccupied with such magnificence. Revelry could be heard
there as dance or feast, and amazing music. Flags floated on the minarets and rooftops, and
windows reason people looked happy and busy.

"Inside, my friend - said the pen, - Colemon this balcony is wide open."

They did so, found inside a large room in which there were even a hundred people vast sitting around
table, full of rich delicacies and adorned with flowers, all set sovereign art and magnificence.
Was equal to the number of men to women, and if between had those
of different ages, they were all young and beautiful.

The servants wore very rich costumes, and endless harmonious musicians played sonatas on top of
a large rostrum.

The guests were lying on cushions covered in colorful tapestries adorned them with flowers and
dressed so lightly and gracefully, her beauty could not fail to appear embossed with ornaments so indiscreet.
The laughter, voices and music, impressing the hearing, the aroma of flowers and the smell snack
foods and spirits, injuring the nose; the liveliness of the eyes, the variety of colors, affecting
vision, produced in that place a fascination that would put the kibosh on the strength of all the
hermits of the Thebaid.

The pen, wandering through the ceiling of the room felt that since the table came up to caress
her senses the sweet fumes of the table and got drunk with the fragrance of wine poured in incessantly
in golden goblets.

His enthusiasm and joy knew no bounds, and let his tongue in such a way that did not stop talking
all day, telling his companion and driver:

"This really is delicious, my friend, this is really live. Well I tell you that here we to find
happiness, well I would announce my heart! Are driving me Tarumba the emanations from those birds,
those spices, the fruits of those spirits that appear to, lead itself the seeds of life and infuse
us encouragement and joy. Repairs in inflammatory beauty do these women: what looks! What breasts!
How great of their own bodies! How lovely smile on his lips! But do not you go crazy like me? Here
I estarme entire life, you know? There is no doubt that life is pleasure, and great fools are
those who walk around flowing dull over hill and dale. And I was so stupid I saw the happiness
in love tasteless pastor that inspired me! How easily we were wrong! ... but I have known my
error, and I have the assurance of not more wrong. It's because I have much experience, do not
believe, and from now on I know I have to do. Thank God I found the ultimate: here, here until
I die. What a pleasure, and what wine, and why so dizzy delicious! Sublime is this, and how unhappy
those who do not know! "

The meal progressed, and the madness of the guests played to its limit: the amphorae had been
and his latest offering of wine, the guests had made them refilled, and even women, stunned,
or shouted savagely with a lazy contemplation or silent.

The pen was also felt woozy: it began to go round and round in the air until little by little lost
consciousness of what had happened.

Preserving a remnant of vague knowledge, felt that the voices away, falling furniture, which
broke with a clatter of glasses; Silence the musicians, which obscured the sun, replaced a
dim light of torches; after they became extinct, that everything was silent. Then he felt
down, abandoned genius of his mysterious friend saw the flowers wilted
and trampled on the ground, the remains Food thrown into disorder
and exhaling foul odor; all mixed and dispersed, and no living person
in the room.

In his swoon judged slowly passing hours and hours, which after dawn, and someone finally showed
signs of life at the palace yesterday's delight and sadness today. The footsteps approached
and tried to unknown hands in order the remains of the feast. Then he was violently dragged to
the influence of a rough order: opened his eyes, and with a clear head, and saw that it was impelled
by a broom. The sweeping together with a multitude of objects mean, rumpled, foul and pestiferous:
leaves trampled flowers, pieces of glass still wet with wine, fruit kernels still covered
saliva, crusts of bread, salmon bones with any shred of flesh, a
speckled band salsa, strawberries Crushers, including wearing a pin
dyed reddish juice that looked like a murderer's knife, ham scraps,
banana skins and some eyes puff Fish that have fixed their broken
heads, seemed to contemplate with wonder and terror such show.

Among these objects, shooting everyone in droves, our pen was pushed
by the broom to to stop a large basket, from where he threw a pen
a thousand times more foul than that of he had left.

To see one so much garbage, bruised, torn, dirty, smelling of wine, spices, grease, saliva,
began to complain with these pathetic words:

"Oh, little wind of my soul, lift me and take me out of here, God and all the saints! I'm dying
in this pile of filth, I I want to be free and pure as before. A faith that you have worn,
feather. What a mistake so gross! Has largely come to the conclusion that bright day pleasure
and happiness. I do not say to me that pleasure brings nothing but degradation, lowliness, pain
and misery. For a little bit of joy, how bitter! And thank God that I come out alive. Luckily
not for me to fall back. Get me out of here, man, and God give you all the kingdoms of the
earth and sea, take me or I die in this rot. "

The genie quickly rose to the very great height, and there is recessed
above all, full glad, to purify and aerate your body.

Looked away from the palace and the city and then both went on without knowing where they went.

"Not quiet annoying fields, nor the palaces, which are mansion of boredom, I make my fucking grace
- the pen said .-- For we must find strength as soon block my genius. See? Or I am much mistaken,
or that crowd that occupies the plain before us, We will stop there with the sublime spectacle
of an act. Let soon, because I hear curiosity. Or I do not know what they are hosts, or whatever
currency there are two that will meet and fight. Sublime event! Blessed be God who has given
us occasion to witness a battle!

Here's one thing that excites me. I fell I for battle. Glory!

I tell you I lose my head when I talk about this. Afternoon was, my friend, but I've finally
found the standard of my destiny. Look, I will start. Above Coloquémonos those who seem to
be the leaders of one of the two armies, and see which will assemble here.

CANTO THREE

Indeed, two large and powerful armies were to hit that plateau. Why describe the brightness of weapons,
shields companies, the ardor of the combatants, the neighing of horses and other accidents uppers
fray? The pen, throbbing with emotion, saw the first meetings, and kept her eyes seemed to be
the king of the army who later decided the victory. The so-king wore a golden helmet, armor burnished
steel, and pressed the back of superb gray horse.

None equaled him in anger and boldness, why its people, enthusiastic about such an example, which overwhelmed
the contrary if were flocks of sheep.

Our traveling did not know how to express their frantic joy to the sublime tragedy.

"The glory! What a thing is glory! - Exclaimed, following as close as possible to the king .-- I
am victorious in my heart: this is life, this is what block to my
genius, this is Happiness: Thank God I found what I wanted.

And I was so stupid that I missed time on frivolous pleasures love and light! The truth is that
a silly mistake! But I have experience, and I do not equivocate more. Glory is what most exalted the
soul. Look, my little friend, how to overcome the locals. And others are retreating. Grande
and mighty king! Give half of my life get on top of his helmet, of that golden helmet at whose summit
will be inclined to Terror to all kings and nations of the earth. Come this alienates me. Do
not you hear how creak weapons, how the horses neigh and how blaspheme fighters, fired in
martial courage? Glorious death of some, and glorious victory of the others! "

This was decisive for the king of the golden helmet and the gray horse. His victorious army pursued
on his heels to the enemy, and followed the triumphant march pen hovering over his head the
hero. Fatigue-ran until night came. Then he stopped, satisfied have wiped out in their flight the
opposing army. Vencederos camped, all hell broke King's tent, food and bedding preparósele,
and at that time for reflection and rest, after the first excitement, until the pen fell to
the ground covered with corpses, blood, ruins.

Then the traveler felt icy cold, extraordinary fatigue and drowsiness
that overcame evoking memories of the epic battle. In his slumber,
he thought he felt the cries of the wounded, mixed with horrible imprecations.
They soon come mothers, sisters, tender children, holding each other,
because the pain loosened their faint bodies, illuminating With sad
flashlight to find the father, son, husband, brother. Men's horrible
average between the executioner and undertaker, and loose dug deep
pit, where they were thrown the unhappy dead of both armies. The holy
women found even among those offal, poorly covered by the earth, loved
ones, and even had dug for them out again if the voices and cries
that were heard no more than give them hope elsewhere that would perhaps
seeking. Lugubrious cawing, lowered vultures and other birds which
have their feast in the fields of battle, the rain waterlogged the
ground, kneading beds of mud and blood for the poor dead, and cold
finished off the wounded hoping to escape death. Tremendous night!
Returning from his lethargy, was observed the pen that he had seen
was no hallucination, but actually very clear. Tried to flee, but
stood in awe, because at the nearby King's tent shouting and swearing
sounded strong clash of arms