 D. Fruels was now going to leave from there, behind
him were plenty of horseback riding people with good markmanship so they could cut the Moorish land
into shape. He could submerge himself into the ravines of his property and prepare to hunt
out the more cruel pirates that infected the seas with thier raids off the coasts of Spain. Admirerers
such were not uncommon.

Placido was one who would collect at the castle for charity, being born to unknown parents he was taught
to love the women who were born of nobles. Until he was eight he lived
in with Elvira, who happened to be a daughter of the Dona Aldonza
and who was only slighlty younger than him.

They played together as children and learned to read the Christian
doctrine.

Elvira grew to love Placido and was embedded with the most innocent
bond of affection for him, she felt their souls had united.

D. Fruela grew suspicious and issued orders that his wife, Dona Aldonza, take the girl from the
boy. She submitted to her husband's wishes but not to the point that
she never spoke to the boy again.

This did not create the effect that D. Fruela anticipated. The study together had turned the worship
of those who were holy into affection. And, the separation of the two only
led to dreams of splendor and finery together.

At the time the two children grew to be fourteen years in age, D. Fruela went hunting with Elvira's
horse only to have a problem with the horse's running wild. The horse became lost in the dense forest
and Placido went after the mare to save her. When he found the horse, Elvira had been thrown
to the ground. Yet, Elvira had not been harmed.

At this point
Placido dismounted from his horse went to Elvira and lifted her in his arms to be sure of her condition.
Before they meant to do it, they had kissed, as if instinctively. Within this kiss Placido felt he had
been to paradise, although in reality he was lying on the hard cruel ground and rain had begun lashing
at their backs in the process. D. Fruela happened to appear in the midst
and confronted Placido, he was both angry and disturbed with him, hoping
to punish him even. There came a pack of hounds and huntsmen who were
insulting the boy and aiming to kill D. Fruela. As they lunged at the
man with thier spear, Placido tried to save his love's father by sliding
down the spear, Elvira all the while was at his side as he had carried
her with him. As he was quite a young and tender age he filled with
bitter tears at the uneven struggle between the huntsmen and D. Fruela.