 But would be undertaken as soon as I could, and without
fear, in the meantime, I go to sleep purposes because they were fully those works one of the
most important lines of new life plan that I had and was traced outline.

The priest was amazed at these my labors, and more with the look and gesture than by words, gave
me to understand how satisfying it was to me Neluco not lost sight of me a moment and seemed
excited about my new fervor, which stimulated with temptations of other goodies that finally
made me swallow his diabolical strategy. In house Marmitón put in the clouds, the miracle, and
only in the mouth of Lituca were restrained praise and restraining the congratulations, but
it's hawked his eyes, as if the hidden force of law impose that limitation to the impulses of his
soul, for the people "is running" and news more about this great resurrection of mine, and I hung
with the truth, plans and calendars that I never had crossed the lie; teníanme, not the follower,
but by the omnipotent reformer traditional work of Bejos Ruiz, for a gift Celso consolidated
and even improved, not only "in print, and robes," but also "in any and Magin ", and at night
went to the house with ideas pundits soaked in these fantasies, and I saw black to lower many gallant
statement items and put things in point ... In short, within myself and around me was calm
and smiling all that had shortly before been sad and distressing and gloomy. So it was quite
another Facia what was, began to nurture and smiled, and slept smooth ... Only Pete Salces
amurriadón walked and thoughtful, and I could not spoil, therefore I think he could remedy.

-
Why do not you "that" on one side at once? - I told him one day.

- As there is in me for me ...-- said her nails of one hand -.

What else would I, porridge!

I promised my help in their grief, and almost danced with joy.

Then I called my Cabinet Tona and spoke of the case. Coloradona got a ripe tomato, and finally
came to plead, in half-words and between swings her hips and fondling her apron, that 'by would
not itself part no ... when EYU juere opportunity ... if your mother ...». Called to immediately
Facia, wine, and underwent the business for its consideration. Showed himself aware of it
by Certain signs never lie and said that "on the other hand ... when EYU juere opportunity ...
if I'm not bad ...». paecía Precisely the opposite seemed to me, and with this, and agree three
on the occasion of "EYU" could be, and would then pass the rigor of the mourning worn by my uncle,
he ended the matter as I wanted and also Salces Pito. Call it a little while, I heard agreed with
Tona and his mother made a couple of capers and took two punches in the cheeks, he stressed the
obligation which was to be more prudent than ever in terms of their engagement, if he is not
close the doors of the house and I had given him at the time the furniture of his own, and went
off stride, laughing and covering only mouth with his hands in obedience to my recommendations,
after asking me, I gave him, to collect from his mother Tona and verbal confirmation of agreed with
me ... and to "enter into the house" every night, and "if a hand had been" talking to the monsoon
occasionally with all due respect. Already embarked on the matchmaking fever, stopped to Chisco
to bump into him in the kitchen Carrejo. But I saw so much like himself, with such flashes
on the face of well-being of himself ... and I was so used to it and made me much needed in
the house, I did not dare to tempt the patience, and dismissed him with a pretext ill-conceived.

Running and day, esmaltáronse of flowers and green the fields, the
sun hotter; templóse and embalmed the environment; desperezóse, at
last, as if awakening Nature a long, deep sleep, and proceeded to
top it with the care of a neat lady Paid very beauty, starting with
the minutiae of the toilet to finish with the most splendid and ostentatious
wardrobe, and when the time seemed to make a purpose He had formed
and matured recently with very serious and careful consideration.

It was my return to Madrid "for some time." This trip I conceived it of the utmost necessity,
not played both in my private affairs rather neglected since I was in Tablanca, to see the
effect as I did, watched from afar, my box new illusions to accurately predict the remaining
strength of the links that I still joined in the past life and compare them to those who were
tied to the new. Conceived it I this test of great importance for the purposes "further" and
"possible" in my estimation without the slightest suspicion that the vain and ghosts sometimes
tempts me not to return as soon as it loses sight of the house.

Declared one day in order to Neluco. He seemed fine, and I even said that unless I had happened
to me, I would have advised him. "They had things changed much since we had set the two at the
same place, some account ... "And the very rascal, smiling, I tapped very gently with the handle
of his club. After I confirmed my already declared attempts to start next summer the agreed
reforms inside the house and I ordered the collection of raw materials and competent workers
to fetch it ... I sent in Madrid, and even bring with me "when he
returned," which could not be found in Tablanca or its vicinity, to
give the finishing touches on a job that interested me so much.

To all was given the heart and soul good friend ... and figure I even thought that those recommendations
I made them not so much for attachment to the work, showing up as irrefutable evidence of my
intention to return soon. And perhaps think well. Cure arrived in this account tell of the treaty,
and liked much to improve the house, but not so much about my trip to Madrid ... "Now, if desirable
for the good of all, as I assured him, was EYU for the love of God."

What Lituca? What would my gear when I had heard of it? And to give it to me and say goodbye,
"Leave well enough alone? "Raise a little bit the tip of the veil or not to lift? I thought a
lot about them, apparently, little things, which were, however, very significant pieces the foundation
which supported the frame of my hypothesis, and finally had to be resolved so, even in its lowest degree,
when I saw the effort it took to conceal poor half the deplorable effect which caused the news.
But even so, or perhaps the same, on that visit did not laugh once with the fervor of before, and
when I say goodbye 'to around "with a handshake very eloquent, he
had me cowering eyes the response that was lacking in his words stitching.

In contrast, Mari Pepa, who I had a hard time work convinced that my departure was not "the smoke",
as she had described soon jaraneó spoke to and took leave of all his household, including the octogenarian,
who had not said ten words, and those monosyllabic and like so many explosions. The three down with
me to poultry, from whose gate I gave them a last farewell, eyes and thought Lituca fixed, the
expression of deeply felt sorrow in my soul I thanked him.

Two days later I said goodbye to Reinosa del Cura and Neluco who had accompanied me to there,
and had been pulling Chisco of the horse he was driving my luggage, I settled in the soft cushions
of a railroad car, and began to roll toward the plains de Castilla, his eyes wandering to the horizon,
not yet open to my delight, and head stuffed full of unruly thoughts and indefinable.

XXXIII

I can not deny that I was very happy in my little house on Arenal
Street, as well "dressed" so elegant, with everything so close at
hand and so far my needs.

I looked tired of stepping on the carpeted floor, to sit back in soft chairs, an observer in
the mirrors of the cabinets, to recreate the view in the pictures on the walls and bronzes
and porcelains that crowned the fancy furniture or kept the stained glass art, nor to lay my bones
in the soft and voluptuous bed to wait for the dream, which took no come, as a super-soft flutter
elves benefactors.

How little it all seemed what Tablanca the mansion, so large, so
old, so naked ... and so cold!

I am also very pleased I found the group, not very large, my intimate friends, the same when they
chatted about what happened on the stage of our world since I missing him, when occasion served
his jokes the "patina Ranger" that were tarnished my person, or new hobbies to which I was inclined,
though very careful not to discover the hidden spring of apparent miracle.

What I liked so much were the crowds and noise and the straight line
informing you all on the floor of the street, in the parallel walls
and compact houses strung together in the stone and the iron cages
in the neighborhood, seasoned and looked out on the undulating curves
Nature and graceful, the orderly disorder of colossal works and sobriety
juicy and sweet tones of their severe.

They missed my lungs the air rich and pure mountain, when he heaved the thick and smelly in
the great crowded recreation centers lights and people, and walked with their heads held high
even by the most spacious sites for the habit of seeking the light over the mountains to the
streets ant antojábanseme and not seeing them more than the work and aims of human ambition,
when raised my look beyond the eaves that dazzled the crack in the
street, not always discovered image of God, or at least looked bigger
than I necessarily reflect the huge Tablanca peaks of about nailed
my eyes on them.

I would have wanted in such cases a compromise between the two extremes, something like how I felt
when Gideon complained that cities were not built in the field, but not possible the realization
of my desires, not very compelling, so beautiful I would have accommodated these and those related
setbacks, among whom were born and lived until fattened without the slightest suspicion that
there might be something better prepared and organized for gift and being a person of good taste,
anywhere in the known world.

What the crowds, which began dislike a little, and became a whole different matter. Nothing like
the sting of self-love or selfishness to take hints its way to the men most parsimonious. Every
time I leave the house or attending a show, always, in short, I became involved in the waves
of the sea of ??bystanders or spectators, I remembered the saying of Neluco and I asked my self:
Who am I, what I represent, what role do, what I play whistle amid these masses of people?
What on earth are used in the world men who, like me, have spent their lives as free beasts,
with no other occupation to the treat the body? Who knows, who's expected, who will cry morning
his death or his failure to notice the pile, or be able to discover traces of their time on
earth? And for that, to live and finish like animals, I am free man young and rich? Do not be
a bad shame a life and death? And I was with thought to the wild solitudes of Tablanca, where
there was an empty, not a selfish or a believer, and I had seen my
uncle died embracing the cross between the blessings and tears of
all the people.

This would be sad and "dark" before considering a smart casual; but was bright and great in
the eyes of good sense and sound conscience. Quedábame some Sometimes, however, the question
of whether these thoughts were legitimate and directly arising from serene and disinterested observation,
or were imposed by the idea of ??my acquired commitment and unavoidable, but the truth is that
those doubts vanished easily, and every day that passed me was less pleasant role rebuffed
anonymous carnival I had done in the pile that incessant decorative farce of life.

Contributed much to hold the heat of these sentiments, my frequent and lively correspondence
with Neluco, which was no less expressive, discreet and deliberate with pen with word and say
it's intentional, because he never needed a pretext in the cards paragraph devoted the best
of them Lita, so I found out I what I "missed" Mari Pepa's daughter, without seeming to notice of
it what I said. I followed a procedure similar to that found out that she missed not a single
moment forgotten, and thus encouraged and was in continual cultivation this delicate fruit of my momentous
developments within the limits I had set for it.

I gave careful consideration the state of things there that were interested, I consulted I pointed
questions or ideas about the tasks that had made, or I outlined other plans I always looked good.
So I defended myself from the bad temptations that beset me the little devil in my life, in whose
clutches he had fallen again. Meanwhile, ordered and had my flow so that always had his hand
away to see me of them, and finally, what I dared to hurt me more
and which I called "burn my ships "," rid "my house.

He wanted to destroy the nest to not have as much attachment to the tree. Package most, sold very
little and gave some of it to my friends. I sent him packing to the Mountain and settled in
an inn.

That's when I started looking, with real and relaxed attention, the usual box "From afar." As a "masterpiece",
I looked beautiful, as reality, not much, but had to take into account the light and the "adherents"
who dazzled me something in my observatory, and the incessant work of the little devil evil
intent that I would not leave Madrid back at it again.

This was that, without getting into great philosophies, I left triumphant testing with very little
effort of my will. It is true that, for good or bad, me decently, I needed to succeed in that
endeavor.

To all this, I corresponded a lot with my sister and tell her the news of the death of our
uncle and his testamentary dispositions had not omitted the purposes of continuing my His work
in the valley. As the letter was written in those days of my enthusiasms bucolic I spoke at length
about my plans to live there and to reform the house to make it striking and sticky ... in short,
everything but the main thing I want to say, the "holy" to whom should
the miracles of my conversion.

The fact is that my sister highly commended resolutions, and even promised me a trip to Spain
with all his children, which in husband could not start their mills and coffee or boiling water,
only with to live with a good season in the house as soon as I said already was habitable.
Just like that, I was already tired of 'grinding', 'mills' and 'bagasse' ... and even the sun
that melted overseas and wanted a change of scenery and landscapes ... and of pastry. Then
I dared to take aim at the idea of ??subject land with loops marriage, and convenience, in my opinion,
to choose to be with a woman like you painted for example, copying
Lituca conditions.

Pearl also seemed all this. "In this and the sooner," he said in conclusion of a letter received
by me just the day he handed the key to my house to the owner to settle in the inn.