 Oh,
girls! ... What scene this morning! Believe, have spent a vat of cologne ... I wanted to help a little,
because it seemed to meet something that our Lord commands us Jesus Christ. If not for me, not
just scrubbing all morning ... Speaking truthfully, if I were poor and I bring to this ceremony
was to acknowledge not all, because frankly, passing the shock and discomfort of being so washed, not
offset by what they provide.

The funny chickens, whose tender age had much value the spiritual and imaginative, not understand
these practical reasons the experienced Dona Candida, and all were
own, nice and appropriate to double majesty of Religion and the Throne
...

Isabelita Bringas was a sickly child, weak, spirit, and watched
it predispositions epilepsy.

His sleep was often disturbed by distressing nightmares, followed by vomiting and seizures, and sometimes
lacking this symptom, the bad early manifested a more alarming. He would like lela and took too
long to understand things, completely missing Infant liveliness. It could not be nagging, and
at school the teacher had orders not impose any punishment or require her application and work.
If during the day witnessed something to excite their sensitivity or had cases before her pitiful,
at night reproduced at all in his troubled sleep. This is compounded when excess in food or by
poor condition of this, the stomach's digestive work of the poor child was over With few forces.
That Thursday, Dona Tula splendidly fed her friends. The girl was docked Bringas a bowl of
milk, which he liked, but it dearly paid the poor, as did a quarter-hour that had been lying when
he was thrust fever and delirium, and began to look and feel with horrible blunders all incidents,
people and things of that day so busy that had so much fun. Repeated games the terrace, saw
the girls all, greatly disfigured, and Candida as a major black pastor who guarded the flock
again attended the ceremony of food poor, peering through a hole in the skylight, and animated
figures of the roof, removing out their paws to scare the curious ... Then he heard playing real
progress. Was that Queen ascended to the terrace? No, appeared through the door of the ladies
step mom, grabbed Pez's arm, and his dad giving him the Marquise de Telleria. What came dragging
pretty those queues that certainly had more than one league! ... And they, how well packaged
and what stiff! ... Came to rest and take refreshment at Dona Tula, to accompany more late
to the whole Court Lady and the visit of Tabernacles ... For all the gates Palacio top of several
liveries appeared much blue and red cloth, much gold braid and silver, tricorn infinite ... Raving
again, he saw the shining city and glazed a thousand colorful. Surely it was a city of dolls,
but what a doll! ... By various sides white wigs out, and no door opened into the recesses of
the second floor without give way to a beautiful wax figure, tow or porcelain, and all ran down
the corridors shouting "it's time ...». Crossed on the stairs coming up with gallon gallon
down ... All the dolls were in a hurry. In this he forgot one thing, one another, a buckle,
a pen, a lanyard. Some called their women so that they achieve something, and all repeated,
"when ...!». After swirling down the main staircase. In the courtyard, the yeomen writhed with
coachmen and footmen, and was like a big pot that boiled human members of many colors, twisting
to the action of heat ... His mom and dad came back again ... Well, they were hermosotes! But
much nicer would your dad when hiciese Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. King was hard at it, and
had promised to give him a uniform with all the accessories of the sword, spurs and more.
Guapín What would his father with his white coat, all white! ... At this point, the poor she
was completely soaked his being on an idea of ??whiteness, at the same time an obstruction horrible
embarrassed, as if things reproducing his brain, dolls and palace were contained within his
tiny stomach. With agonizing convulsions threw it all out and contained the rave, and felt
a relief ...! His mother had jumped from the bed to go to help her. Isabelita clearly heard,
and awakened, the loving voice saying: "It's over, darling, that's nothing. "

IX

The beauty of miracles had not yet reached the twilight in which we featured in the sad story of
his son for years 75 to 78, but moved away and enough of the meridian of life. The restoration
procedure used with rare skill still not denounced themselves same as those plasters marred by
the poor condition of the building to which they apply.

The time defending his wit, his elegance, his refined taste in clothing
gear and sympathy inspire those who knew not trying to close.

All these qualities equally subjugated the spirit of Rosalía Bringas, but what stood out including
the most tyrannical was the exquisite taste in fashion rags. This gift for her friend was like
the sun shining Bringas which could not face watching to face without dazzling. Because in
that estimate had the authority of the Marchioness in these treaties,
which did not dare have an opinion that was not a true reflection
of the August proclaimed by her.

All doubts about a color or form of dress were cut with a word of Miracles. What is said was already
legal body for any question that occurs later, as not only authorizing legislation but his
teaching by example, dressing in a spotless, the de Bringas, which at this time in our history
was passionate greatly by the dresses, rose to Milagros in his soul a veritable altar. Garcia's
widow Grande Rosalie captivated with its prestigious historical figure. Respetábala this as
the gods of a dead religion, but Milagros had it in the predicament of living dogmas and the
gods in power. Nobody in the world, even Bringas, was on the ascendant Pipaón as large as Miracles.
The woman, authoritarian and somewhat rude to peers and lower became timid in the presence of his
idol, who was also his teacher.

Agustin Caballero freebies and assignment of all the finery she had bought for wedding, Rosalie
awoke the passion of the dress. His former modesty that most had virtue of necessity, was subjected
to a test that did not come out victorious. In another time, the wisdom of Thiers was able to curb
the appetite of luxury, making us believe all that did not exist when the only positive in this was
the inability to satisfy them.

It is the primary event in human history and the eternal case, the case where order of fragility.
While there was no evidence the fruit forbidden by God that household, all going well. But
the apple was bitten, but the devil take the form of snake here ruin or other animal, and goodbye
my modesty. After having released so many beautiful costumes, how resigned to return to the
old rags never change no longer fashionable? This could not be. He had been blessed Augustine, generously
and without hesitation, the corrupter his cousin, had been the serpent in good faith that got
him in the head the most dangerous vanities that can hollow out the brain of a woman. The gifts
were the fruit whose sweetness took his innocence, and because of them an angel with a sword of satin
that I threw her paradise on your Bringas had it so secure. Nothing, nothing ... hard to believe
that what Dona Eva is so remote. Say what you will, had to spend yesterday, as it is for chilly
and throbbing that event. Appear to have brought the papers last night.

As his wife disapproved Bringas several dresses and expenses in finery and ornaments, she affected
to despise the news, but bells were always covered by reforms rags combining and interpreting
more or less freely what brought the figurines. When Milagros was going to spend time with her,
if Bringas was in the office, chatting at home, venting each in his way, the passion that dominated
them both.

X

But if the holy man was in his hollow window, plunged into the microcosm of the work hair, the ladies
were kept in the Carrion, and there were dispatched to their liking
without witnesses.

Rosalie pulled the dresser drawers gently to make noise, drew skirts,
bodies pending reform, pieces of cloth cut or cut, strips of velvet
and silk, and putting it all on a sofa, on chairs, trunks or soil
if necessary, starting a feverish advice on what should be done to
achieve the best and most striking effect in of distinction.

These councils had no end, and if you take minutes of them offer an encyclopedic record of this
curious womanly passion in the world does more damage that revolutions. The two spoke quietly so
as not found out Bringas, and was its rapid whisper, drowned, vehement, sometimes indicating indecision
and surprise, sometimes enthusiasm of a happy thought. French words seeking to qualify this
conference is taking off the fabric of our language, but even if it stuck with pins, I have
to hold for the exotic language rags castiza not lose its brilliance.

Looking .--=( ROSALIA a fashion plate.) = To tell the truth, I do not understand this. I do
not know how have to unite behind the coat tails of French guard.

MIRACLES .--=( With a stunning, which gradually overcomes his great trial.) = Let aside figurines.
Slavishly follow leads to the affected and loud. Begin by the choice of fabric. Do you choose
you the hint of white muslin scarf? Then the coat can not be adopted.

ROSALIA .--=( With determination.) = No; choose resolutely gros icing,
ash color pink.

Nephew told me that I will return the envelope. The icing gros puts me to twenty-four real.

Meditating .--=( MIRACLES.) = Good, because if you look at the achievements icing, I would skirt
adorned four leaflets about four inches, let's see?, no, five or
six, putting him on the edge a narrow bias emerging green glaze ...
Huh?

ROSALIA .--=( contemplating on ecstasy what is still not an abstraction.)
= Very good ... And the body?

MIRACLES .--=( Taking a half-body modeling and working with their
hands on the fabric lapels and skirts.) = The French guard coat will
open in heart, with flaps, and closes on the side of the stem with
three or four green buttons ... here.

The skirts ... Do you understand me?, Open in front ... well ... showing the liner, which
is green as the flap, and join those laps back with recessed ...
= (The Queen, throwing back her hands, cups her own dress in that
part prominentísima, where returns have to meet of the coat-tails.)
= Is whole you ... It is cute.

I said that the lining This jacket is green and carries gros on the verge of a ruche of ribbon
around the same as the flyers ... How are you? Oh, do not forget that this suit is needed
t well plegadita batiste, Valenciennes lace folded in the neck ... holgaditos fists, holgaditos;
to fall on the wrists.

ROSALIA .-- Oh ... t I have two or three classes ...

MIRACLES .-- I've seen that has come from Paris to San Salomó Pilar food to suit and theater
... = (With aesthetic emotion, rolling his eyes.) = What costume! Divine Thing ...!

ROSALIA .--=( With eager interest.) = What is it?

MIRACLES .-- pink satin skirt, touching the floor, adorned with a
lace-covered steering wheel.

How very chic! On it are eight black velvet ribbons.

ROSALIA .-- And puffs?

MIRACLES .-- Four orders. Then, on the skirt fits waist = (Uniting word Descriptive mime hands in
their own size.) = do you understand? ... fits the Cutting a garment waist ... In doing this,
and falls around here, forming a caught behind a big pouf. = (With enthusiasm.) = How original!
Caught below the tail largely extend the same studs in the skirt, but what a well thought out!
It is sublime! ... See you ... well ... here ... in such a way ... corresponding with them
only for a retroussé ... Is means that the mantle has a flap whose
peaks are here ... under the pouf ... Do you understand you, dear?

ROSALIA .--=( astounded.) = Yes ..

I understand ... I see ... Will be precious ...

MIRACLES .--=( superbly with a gesture expressing the successful placement of what he describes.)
= Large loop on puffs of satin ... It's a wonderful effect.

ROSALIA .--=( assimilating everything you hear.) = "And the body?

MIRACLES .-- Very low, with the shoulder straps fasten through ties
... But beware: these ties have not fallen ... The shirt is a novelty
...!, studs silk ribbons TIGHT past velvet dots.

Long sleeves ...

Removing and putting .--=( ROSALIA fabrics and pieces for a better comparison.) = I have an idea
for this dress shirt. If I choose to end the ash color pink ... = (Stopping pensive.) = me decide
what I'm clumsy! The figurine ... = (Collecting all in shock and quickly.) = I think I feel Bringas.
They are an ordeal these openly ...

MIRACLES .--=( helping to keep all hastily.) = Yes, I feel his little cough. Oh, friend, your
husband seems to Customs, so that is pursuing the rags ... Hide contraband.

Rosalia were happy times for those passing through the Marquise discussing
the form and manner to fix his clothes.

But the greatest joy it was to accompany her friend to stores though sorrows not going to buy
many good things he saw. Weather they would not feel it. Milagros was made to show everything
in the store, stirring, comparing; the sudden passing whim to cold disdain; haggling, and
concluded by acquiring different things cargábanle the amount in your account. Rosalia, if
something bought, after much thought and cruising around money, paid always tocateja. Their purchases
were generally not that patchwork, outdated or fabric pieces to make matches with the good she was
at home, and recast the old giving sheen and representation of novelty.

But one day he saw at the home of a mantle Sobrino Hermanos ... What piece, what apple of Eve! The
passion of the collector in the presence of a rare specimen, the enthusiasm of the hunter
to view of a brave and stout res give us no idea of ??this great fondness wipe in certain
women. Rosalia you were the eyes behind the superb garment, when the kind trade-dependent taught
an assortment of them, piling on the counter as if they were empty bags. Timidly asked the price but
were afraid to haggle. The enormity terrified cost almost as much as it seduced splendid piece, in
which the velvet bright cloth and trimmings combined pilgrimage. At home he could not remove
imagination, all day and all night, the happy mantle, and thereby snatched his blood burning
desire, which feared an erysipelas ataquillo if not sated. Again Milagros to stores the next
day, with no intention of entering the Sobrino, where temptation was great, but the Devil arranged
for them to be, and here displayed again on the counter white boxes,
those glossy cardboard chests which they are filed women's dreams.

The clerk took them out one by one, forming black stack. The preferred appeared with its elegant
shape and luxurious trimmings, in which black lightning bead, trembling in plush, confirmed
all that the poets have said mantle night.

Rosalie had to feel cold in the chest, burning in the temples, and their shoulders Nerves suggested
so true to the sense of touch and weight of the mat, he believed
and carry on.

- Buy it you ... by God! - Milagros said her friend
in a manner so suggestive that Sobrino dependent and it could not
but support a concept as sensible.

Why what is to be deprived of an article that falls so well?

And when the shopkeepers moved away a bit in the direction of another group of parishioners, the
Marchioness catechesis followed her friend to this whisper

- Do
not deprive you buy if you like ... and indeed is very cheap ... Just
come you with me, that does not need to pay now.

I have here a lot of credit. No you will pass the bill until within a few months, into the
summer, and perhaps year-end.

The long term idea was hesitant to Rosalia, tilting all its spirit-side Purchase ... Actually,
1700 was not exorbitant real for her and easier it would gather,
if you will light selling some things that no longer wanted to be,
if in addition economized, sparing with patience and perseverance
the daily expenditure of the house.

The worst thing was that Bringas was not to authorize such a considerable expense which was not
absolutely necessary.

Other times she had made herself his polkas and shawls, borrowing one for the model. Buying the tackle
on the rise in Santa Cruz, joining pieces, hiding patches, obtained satisfactory results through
hard work and little money. But how could compare the pobreterías made for her with that brilliant
model come from Paris? ... Bringas not allow luxury that certainly had to look Asian, and that
the thing happened, it was necessary fool ... No, no, not determined.

The fact was serious, and he wasted break of so abrupt a sick family
traditions.

But the mat was so beautiful ...! The Paris had made for her ... Was determined, yes or no?

XI

Was determined, yes, and to explain the possession of so magnificent gala, had to appeal to
recursillo, already spent a bit of the bounty of His Majesty. Coincidences here. Hallab Real
Rosalía in the House at the time uncovering some boxes just arrived from Paris. The Queen tried
on a yoke that came close, a body that was wide. The royal dressmaker there present, made comments
on how to fix those items. Then, a box lined with chintz beautiful inside and out ... a fabric
that seemed satinet ... took three shawls. One of them fell beautifully to His Majesty, the other two
no. "Get this, Rosaliíta ... What? Or painted. " In effect, nor was far better. "Oh, good,
good! ... Let's see, turn ... You know me I do not know how to take it off? No, no ...». take
it off "But Madam, for God's sake ...». "No, leave it.

It's yours by right of conquest. It you have a body ...! Use it in my name, and no more about
it. " Thus so graceful regaled her friends the gracious sovereign ... Came close to my good Thiers
to tears hearing the well-told story.

If I'm not mistaken, the swallowing of this great ball by the width of D. Tragadero Francisco
came to pass in April. Rosalia lay quiet on the idea of ??remote payment, believing that they can collect
the amount in a couple of months, back in the early days of May ... Wham, your account. By then
it was the marriage of the Infanta Isabel, and was the very entertaining Pipaón without remember
their commitment and Nephew account. He stood motionless upon receipt, and looked with stunned
eyes the paper without being able to get by with a response or comment
anyone because they think that money would think was impossible ...
He had never been in a trance same, because Brinker had the system
not to buy anything without the money up front.

Finally, stuttering, said the condemned man that she would pay for it "tomorrow ... no, the other
day, in short, one of these days. "

Fortunately, Bringas was not home. Two or three days Rosalie lived in great uncertainty. Every
time the bell sounded, it seemed they came again with that man happy the nasty little piece of
paper ... If Bringas found out ...! Thinking this, his anxiety was real terror, and began to devise
a way out of step. A few days before had almost half the money, but confident that the bill
would not, Tell them spent on little things for children. He did not like herself composed, but
was well dress up vanity their children to worthy alternative to the children of other families
in the city. In these bells and whistles, namely a cuellitos, an array of hat, blue socks, gloves
incarnate, a sailor's cap that read lyrics from another Numancia, and two leather belts it had gone
the previous week over six hundred real, which could not have meet in your pocket without
replacement during a long season, the principle of skirt steak for
a plate of brains high, that turned one day every other alternating
with tortillas marinade.

The tonnage of the box did not produce more than one hundred twelve reals, and the store had
a little trick that Bringas had no news. What to do, Lord? Money should be sought at all costs.
But where, how? Made discreet overtures to Milan, but the Marquise was affected that day so
persistent intellectual deafness did not understand anything. Distractions and inconsistencies
of Telleria could be translated as: "dear friend, you call another door. " What door?, What the
candida? Intentolo Rosalia, finding in the illustrious widow All the best, but damn did happen
to her manager had not brought even the collection of houses ... Then he had gotten into some
repair costs ... In short, there was no salvation in that quarter. After Providence came across
to Rosalia via sighed relief that Gonzalo Torres constant friend
of the family, the which so often visited them at the Palace and at
home in the Costanilla.

Torres used to handle outside money, and sometimes possessed no small amount of which drew some benefit
during the brief possession of them. Taking advantage of the absence her husband, Rosalie declarole
sincerity so strongly as her trouble and the good Gonzalo reassured at the time. What soon
became the roses, to speak to the poetic, the haggard lady's face! ... Fortunately, Torres was in
possession of an amount that was Mompous and Bruil, but none could delay care delivery month.
If undertook Rosalia to repay the thousand and seven hundred reais in the period of thirty
days, no problem had facilitators. Instead, he was extremely happy ... A month!, What happiness!
Ni much time she needed to collect the amount, either with relentless squeezing savings the regular
budget, or selling some items that had already gone out of fashion
... Ah, Careful ... Bringas absolute secret ...

Secure and able to
meet Sobrino Hermanos, his conscience was discharged weighing horrible.

No longer would cut the breath in fear that the unfortunate collector appeared Store when Bringas
was in the house. Regained his appetite was lost and his nerves were calmed. Because, the truth,
he found himself in those days under the action of a spasmodic disorder simulated a severe anxiety, and
it was hard to prevent her husband call the family doctor.

He was getting the shawl to go to pay (as Torres brought the money that same later), he entered
Milan. What beauty came from and what stylish! ... "Look here ... I have taken this blue ribbon
to the bodice. Tone is very new and with a green iridescent ... Do you see you like change?
... Rest a while and then we will go together. I bring my car ... Ah