 

The importance of the issue to the South American countries lies, therefore, to reject indirectly,
through its commitment to collective security, all solidarity with the doctrine Monroe, as is understood
and practiced by the Americans. There would be no reason or justice, or common sense, to follow
the U.S. stupidly, intended to issue a new Bull of Alexander VI, divided the two worlds to their
advantage. Our future is in Europe and with it every day we strengthen our relationships, mistaken,
if possible, our life with it, indeed, draw their ideas of order, conservation, purity administrative
you have to fertilize our democracy strong ...

I've wondered what England would respond if the United States will propose the substitution your warranty
exclusively by the collective guarantee of all countries of both Americas. It just laugh, what
could we do in the likely event that our huge ally occurred to him do what he pleased?

The real South American politics, as in the case of the planned convening of the Congress by the
United States, or any occasion, it is strongly express their wishes not to depart from Europe,
at the same time trying to insinuate themselves into the general concert, claiming a modest
seat at any conference in which American interests are concerned. Cavour got 15,000 men through
a crack in the Crimea, and then maneuvered so However, he did the Italian unit. Our emerging
countries now have a purpose so vital to pursue, but the results of a general approach and
the advantages of marching on the same line of great nations, just once, can be of incalculable
importance ...

I now ask forgiveness for the last few pages, but as the end of the day is approaching and soon
we parted, I expect that will be read with that patient, full of vague hopes, heard that the last
paragraph of a nuisance that has the hat in one hand and the other on the doorknob.

       * * * * *

When I went to Alene, who had to leave the next morning, I found a number of unloading men and
women over fifty wagons had just left a locomotive the side of the vapor, which transshipped
content. Do you know what it was? Bananas! Never I have seen a similar amount of bananas. Thousands,
millions of bunches were stacked in vast warehouses of three ships that carried simultaneously.
Such development has taken the industry on the Isthmus, which had been founded exclusively for
steamship the transport of bananas. Later, in New York, I explained that special use. The streets
are full of fruit vendors, and rare is the U.S. that the move does not buy a couple of bananas,
peeling bravely with his teeth and swallows without diminishing their gymnastic step. Has reached
such a point the thing that has required a police edict grieving with heavy fine for throwing
banana peels on the street, thus providing opportunity to more than unfortunate to break your
neck.

Now, you know how much has promoted the value of banana exports from the port of Columbus in 1881?
A one million two hundred thousand pesos inert, that is, six billion Swiss francs or thirty million
pesos currency (Buenos Aires).

I figure in several types money for their enormity is not attributable to error [31].

"Ye pretend the pyramid of bunches of bananas that is needed, a paltry price paid for reach
that amount? And yet, one of the strongest exporters, the initiator idea, has double the exports
in two years, accustomed to the banana the whole region central United States that has not
bitten the soft fruit. It is good to note that bananas from Panama, which is the best in the world,
occurs throughout the year. Pore, as before existing plants were far from sufficient to meet
export, owners huge plantations have been hired, and on the day but are not full of banana
fruit along the railroad from Colon to Panama. The banana is shipped green, begins to brown
After four or five days, and full flavor arrives in New York, where
he soon disappears to the formidable consumption.

If, as expected, the fifty million people in the United States habituate to eat bananas in
the proportion that today they are New Yorkers and people in general
coast, Panama's future is assured.

Leaving the tropical climbing sap joyous Palm and swell the golden fruit that can become the
richest state in Colombia.

Alene was a small steamer built in Glasgow, strong, solid and seaworthy. Found the board some Colombian
families heading to New York as well as numerous American and English from California or South American
Pacific ports.

Cross view of the island of Cuba, the Bahamas face and stopped to take coal one of the islands
of Barbados, these were all accidents of travel. My only entertainment on board was caring
for a child carrying a turpial Colombia. The melodious bird paid me their attention with its
melancholy whistle of a sweetness and depth. Turpial throat has not this extraordinary Virtuosité nightingale
or the canary, the agility he is unknown. But his singing, equal and monotonous, is like those
delicate pieces of music that always elicit new sensations ... I concluded to take true love to turpial,
it was for me a source of bitterness. When anchored, a sailor who bothered cage for some maneuver
unexpectedly placed on the boiler that projected in the housing. In the time to go ashore, the
poor girl, with the expansive joy of arrival, came running taken from my hand to find the turpial
... The poor animal was dying, half a roasted by the heat boiler, had the instinct to retreat
into the water container all the morning is put in the cage. From two doctors who came on board,
just the last passenger, all came up with twenty different remedies to no avail. The poor bird
died a moment later. The little girl was crying inconsolably and could not shake the turpial,
who had pressed against the breast, as if to give his life ... I walked like a fool in bridge,
cursing at myself and my stupid sentimentality that made me a hard time by the death of a turpial
when I absorbed annually a number of birds killed for my private use, with the most perfect
peace of mind. I make an exception, however, but does not refer to a bird. About two years ago
not as a turtle. Here's why: One morning, up the Magdalena, the boatmen had caught a huge turtle,
whose shell, over, there would be less than half a meter. As chance had fallen to the kitchen
when I met one of the helpers on the way to kill the turtle, but that barbarian, by dint of
axes and machetes, tried to separate the body from its shell without thinking about killing
previously the poor animal, whose head hung and whose eyes narrowed with each blow Axe ... She
was removed from his hands, forced him to kill her in the act, but
I have not to try turtle!

       

* * * * *

On the morning of the eighth day, we saw, far yet, five or six small candles to the north and
west. They were pilots, in their small and fast yachts, with sometimes venturing up two and three
hundred miles from New York, running a real steeple-chase in search of ships to drive the port. There
are two rival companies, happily, explaining that request. In fact, the port of New York is so
well known and is so well marked, that masters not need the help of the pilot to enter safely.
But, as in case of a contrast always possible, insurance companies do not pay if they have not
taken all precautions, the character is indispensable. As the wind was against them, had a good
time watching the skillful maneuvers, the beautiful embroidered made to gain ground, approaching
the vapor. Finally, one of the yachts, when his opponent was only twenty fathoms managed to
grab a tie that he began to port and the other board tacked on the spot, without any remarks and
put forward a black dot visible on the horizon, some ship that was certainly our route. A man
with a full beard but no mustache, coat and top hat, serious and solemn, appeared on the deck of the
yacht, with a newspaper in his hand. This is the last issue of the New York Herald who have
taken before departure, to give away the captain. He who forgets that requirement is sure to
be shunned by the captain on the next trip by a simple maneuver,
if the number of his yacht (painted on the sail), is between likely
candidates.

The arrival of the pilot is always an event on board, seems to have an air of city some aspect
of joy to the spirit land. Comes from among the living, you know what happened in the world,
is the embodiment of that hope of the arrival in recent days ago rough and violent ... We were
all crowded into the stairwell. The pilot waved seriously "What is new?" - Someone asked. "Garibaldi
is Died." So I had the first news of the death of the hero of San Antonio. I do not know what
made me more of an impression, if the news itself or the way I got it. In 1870, when boarding
the pilot to be made Southampton port, he said, when asked about the news: "Charles Dickens
is dead. " Upon my return, in 1871, I also discovered a workable in a transit port, the death of Alexander
Dumas.

These curious coincidences struck me in an inexplicable way, and since then I look at the practical
as birds of ill omen.

But who would get the New York Herald, after the captain? Serious issue. The wolf locked herself
in her room, and I think, not only read to the ads the very miserable, but Typographical errors
corrected until. When we succeed, we find nothing can satisfy our
curiosity.

It seems incredible that the march of human affairs so monotonous, there are so few rail crash,
given the length of railway lines so rare and heinous crimes, given the conditions of our friendly
species.

Behold, at last, the famous port of New York. Undoubtedly, the deep cove, bordered capricious hills,
dotted with mountains, gleaming houses, villages and castles modern presents a charming appearance.
But no, it is the bay of Rio de Janeiro, the pride of tropical zone, with its deep blue sky and
waters, its mountains, palm trees and coconut trees, islands smiling. Nor is poetic and serene calm
of the Gulf of Naples reflection of the soul of Virgil, who was impregnated
with this picture of heavenly peace.

But to the truth, the New York Bay pleasantly surprised when he walks the floor of the great nation
american spirit only willing to contemplate the positive side of human life the shows great
industry, not natural beauties ...

All new, all fresh and rosy. The ceilings and walls of the elegant villas sparkle as if they cleaned
each morning. In buildings of stone, imitating the old, the dark gray paint which strives to
be decrepit, unable to deceive the eye, as the young artists who believe in the old tables made
whitening hair and retaining the freshness of the skin, does not produce the illusion sought
... Far away in the confusing drawing of the city, something enormous
that extends between two huge pillars, almost lost in the mist, is
the Brooklyn Bridge.

But the keen eye discovers no archaic tower, a monument, a column, something to talk about the past
... Is that people have confused a three historical ages; not seek art in these costs, but
what in them is ...

But, I repeat, the bay is really beautiful. Mil vapors cross it in all directions, displaying
little slender forms floating palaces that bring to mind the sad memory of the "America" ??and the
disaster it fell.

The first elements of the trial that formed in New York after a short stay, by describing the
huge city of "paradise of women and children" were collected on the morning of my landings. I
sent my luggage to the hotel early, that is, I gave one of those agencies to replace very comfortable
in everything that is annoying individual action and started to roam the streets. It was 8
o'clock on a gorgeous July day. The sun lit up the wide avenues, and since large groups of idle men
looked tired in the shade of large trees lining the sidewalks and populate the squares. For all
parties, women and children, alone, quiet, with satchels on their backs, pink, pompous of
force. Marching with firm step sovereign. When you reach a corner where traffic flow makes
it impossible to transit stop and look just the policeman, that stood in the middle of the street,
with the severity of a statue, as monitored with active eye happening around them. The policeman
awaiting the assembly of five or six children, making the most little girl on his left arm, and surrounded
by the bustling tribe, is launched at high sea, raising cane in his right hand, symbol of authority.
Trams, cars, cab, carriage estate, a vehicle is stopped at once and the children calm and
safe crossing the road, guided by the love of people, represented
at that time by the proper official.

Successfully concluded, the policeman deposited on land its cargo funny, smiles on their tiny
Customers bid farewell to him as a friend and walked over the road in front of a similar issue.

More
than once I stopped for a long time to look at that picture. It is the only city world I've
seen that vigilante protection of authority over the weak and sick. Who can forget the anguish
of mothers taking their children convulsively the hand and trying to save these streams of
Oxford Street, the City, the boulevards, Opera Square or the Champs Elysees? At every moment,
the daily London, Paris or Vienna, announce bad things happen to children knocked down by vehicles.
In New York children is sacred. For her dilated parks, tree-covered, upholstered grass, not just
ornamentation, but that the child run over it safely, try their strengths and unfold. For him,
a square in each corner, where the nurses are installed with the gay squad, armed with sticks,
picks and shovels to remove the sand trench and walls covered with earth to the eyes, move,
shake, play, in short, that the lives of children, as the flight
is the bird life.

Many times, at Madison Square or through endless space-Park Central, seeing me surrounded by
innumerable creatures blonde, pink, deep breaths that crisp air, fierce in all known children's
games, I thought of our children, tucked within the four walls of the house, growing up without
color, like hothouse flowers, without further resource to go sit
on a park bench sad, to be challenged by the policeman just her naughty
little foot steps on the yellow grass and thirsty