 It was liberal, but undeterred we fear to do good to ungrateful fulfilling the
great commandment of Zoroaster, who says: "Give food to the dogs" Quando you eat, even bite you
"after." Quanto was wise man can be, for he tried live in the company of the sages had learned
the science of the Chaldeans, and was instructed in quanto about the physical principles of nature
in his time was known, and metaphysics quanto knew everything at all times have known, that is to say
very little. Most firmly believed that a year has three hundred sixty-five days and a quarter, against
what he taught modern philosophy of his time, and that was the sun in the center of the world,
and when the main magicians told him in a tone of reproach, and looking sideways, that sustained
early sapient haeresim, and that only an enemy of God and the state could say that the sun revolved
about its exe, and that was the year of twelve months, Zadig was silent, without frown or shrug
shoulders.

Opulent, and therefore not lacking friends, enjoying health, being handsome, wise and moderate,
with chest naive, and elevated mood, thought he could aspire to be happy. Was bespoken Semira her marriage,
which her beauty, her dowry, and his birthplace, was the best wedding Babylon. Zadig Profesábale
a sincere and virtuous love, and Semira loved him with passion. Verged and the happy day that
would link them, when two lovers walking outside Gates of Babylon, Baxo some palms that shaded
the banks of the Euphrates, they saw approached by men armed with cutlass and arrows. These
were some of the youth executioners Orcan, nephew of a minister, and as such the sycophants
of his uncle he had been persuaded to which they could do quanto he pleased. None of the clothing
and possessed virtues of Zadig; but believed that long preceded him, was in despair at not
being the favorite. These jealousies, mere children of his vanity made him believe he was in love
Semira, and wanted to steal it. Habíanla caught the robbers, and the outburst of violence had
hurt her, pouring the blood of a person who by his presence Imao tigers would have tamed the
mountain. Pierced Semira the sky with their cries, crying, Dear Husband, I have to whom ye I love it!
Not moved the danger in which he was, as his dear Zadig alone in thought. Defendíala this with
all the boldness of love and courage, and with the help of two slaves drove alone to the robbers,
and he brought to Semira bloody and faint, that opened my eyes met their freedom. O Zadig!
said to him, I loved like my husband, and now I want like that life whom I am indebted and honored.
Never overflowed one breast more tender affection than Semira, never so pretty mouth spoke so
vividly of those expressions swollen that the gratitude of the highest benefit and the most
tender affection of most legitimate abductions are children. His wound was slight, and he
recovered soon. Zadig was wounded in greater danger, because an arrow had made a deep wound near
the eye. Semira importuned to the Gods the cure of her lover: Day and night eyes bathed in
tears, waited impatiently Zadig moment that they could enjoy in looking at, but a boil that
formed in the injured eye caused the greatest fear. Memphis would send and invite famous physician
to Hermes, who came with a swollen entourage, and having visited the patient stated that inevitably
perdia the eye, predicting up to the day and time that had happened so fatal dismantling. If there
been, he said, the right eye, I would heal, but the wounds of the left have no cure. All Babylon
hurt the fate of Zadig, while it was amazed at the profound science Hermes. Two days after the
boil burst naturally, and healed Zadig. Hermes wrote a book, proving that there should be healed,
the qual Zadig did not read, but then he could out, went to see who expected that of happiness,
and who only wanted to have eyes, he found himself in his fifth Semira three days to, and knew
the road Zadig, who, after to declare resolutely that he had an invincible antipathy to the
one-eyed, beautiful lady Orcan had married that night. Desmayóse to hear this news, and was in
no that your pain will conduxera the tomb, but after a long illness, but the reason could that
feeling, and it was no small part of the same atrocity comfort of the grievance. Well I am
a victim, he said, of so cruel whim of a woman raised in the palace, I will marry a daughter
of a respectable neighbor. Chosen because of Azor wife, a damsel very sane and best nature,
in whom there is any defect noticed more nothingness, and there is little inclination to believe
The cutest boys were always the most wise and virtuous.

CHAPTER II

Noses.

One day she returned from walking Azora all immutable and decomposed by gestures: What are you, dear?
Zadig said to him, what is so far beyond what you made thee? Ay! replied Azora same hicieras
you, if you had seen the scene I just witnessed, had gone to console Cosrúa to the young widow has
erected two days ago, a mausoleum of the deceased young man, husband yours, it is the stream
that bathes the prairie, swearing to the gods, in their pain, they would not depart in the vicinity
of this tomb, whilst the stream is not moved its flow. Well done, 'said Zadig, that's a sign
that a woman is well, that really loved her husband. Ha, replied Azora, if you knew it was his occupation
Quando qual went to see her .-- Qual era, beautiful Azora? - Dar another channel for the stream.
Azora then added many invectives, burst into such a bitter accusations against the widow girl,
who under very upset to Zadig as boastful. A friend of his named Er, was one of the waiters who
was said Azora by merit and integrity more than others, Zadig she trusted him his secret, hold,
in quanto he was able, with Quanti loyalty gifts. Azora After spending two days in a villa of
her friend returned to his home the third. The servants told him crying that night had fallen
dead suddenly her husband, who had not dared to bring bad news, that ended Zadig to bury in
the tomb of his parents at the end of the garden. Azora cried, mesábase hair, and swore he
did not want to live. That night asked permission to speak Cador with her, and wept both. The
next day I cry less, and ate together. Cador Fiole that he had forsaken his friend most of
his wealth, and gave him to understand that their greatest that would be able to part with it.
That the lady wept, was angry, and then subsided; and as the dinner was longer than the food,
speak both with more confidence. He Azores eulogy of the deceased, confessed, however, that
suffered from some small defects in Cador were not.

In the middle of supper Cador complained of intense pain in the spleen,
and the lady concerned and scared traxeran you sent all that is perfumed
with essences, to test whether any remedy was a against the pains
of the spleen; feeling much he had gone already wise Babylon Hermes,
and deigning to touch the side where Cador felt such great pain.

Do you usually I give you this pain so cruel? said to him compassionately. Two fingers of the grave
makes me sometimes, replied Cador, and there is only one remedy for relief, which is applied to
the cost the face of a man who died the day before. Bizarre choice! he said Azora. There is more
rare, said Cador, the horns of deer that put children to preserve the evil eye. The latter
reason with the waiter a lot of merit determined after the lady. Finally, he said, if my husband's
nose is a little shorter in the second life that the first, not that he has to keep out the
angel Asrael, when crossing the bridge Sebinavar, to move from the world of yesterday morning.
Saying this, he took a knife, went near the grave of her husband bañándole into tears, and to
cut off the noses Baxo; but Zadig who was lying in the grave, one hand clutching his nose, and
diverting the knife with the other, rose suddenly exclaimed, again do not say much bad about
Cosrúa, that the idea of ??cutting my nose well they can gamble in moving to the current a
stream.

CHAPTER III.

The dog and horse.

Zadig soon saw that, as the book of Zenda-Vesta, if the first month
of marriage is the honeymoon, the second is that of aloes.

Very quickly saw himself compelled to repudiate the Azores, which
had become unbearable, and tried to be happy studying nature.

There be more fortunate, he said, that the philosopher who studied the great book of God in the eyes
men. The truths he discovers are his property, supports and enhances your mood, and lives in quiet,
without fear of others, and without the coming of his tender wife to cut off noses.

Steeped in these ideas, retreated to fifth on the banks of the Euphrates, which was not involved
to calculate quantas inches of water pass each second Baxo the arches of a bridge, or whether
month mouse cubic rain water line more than the ram, or devised to
make silk with cobwebs, or porcelain with broken bottles, studying,
yes, the properties of animals and plants, and soon grangeó a sagacity
that made him play thousands of differences where others saw only
uniformity.

A day strolling beside a grove, he saw a eunuch come running from the Queen, accompanied several
employees of the palace, all seemed full of anxiety, and ran everywhere like hell they're looking
for the most precious thing they have lost. Mancebo, told him the main eunuch, Did you see the queen's
dog? Zadig answered modestly: no dog is bitch.

You are right, "said the chief eunuch. It is a very small fine bitch, Zadig continued, that has
borne little has, coxa of the left foot forward, and has very long ears. How that you have
seen? he said the first eunuch beside himself. Certainly not, "replied Zadig, or I have seen
or knew that the queen had no dog.

Pass that by a quirk of chance had been missed at the same time the hands of a groom of the king
the best horse in the royal stables, and were running for plain of Babylon. Iban behind him
the Horse and all his subordinates to not less urgency that the chief
eunuch behind the dog, the groom He went to Zadig, and asked if he
had seen the king's horse.

That is a horse, 'said Zadig, who has the best canter six feet tall, the tiny hoof, tail and
fourth long pole, the snack gold brake is twenty-three carats, and eleven silver horseshoe
money. Why where has it gone? Where is it? asked the equerry. Nor have I seen, "said Zadig,
or I have never heard of him.

Or to the Horse or the chief eunuch was clear that they had stolen the horse Zadig the king
and queen bitch, conduxeronle it to the assembly of large Desterham, which sentenced to two
hundred lashes and six years in prison. No sooner had given the sentence, when seemed the
horse and the dog, so that judges were in the painful precision to
cancel his sentence, he nevertheless condemned Zadig to a fine of
four hundred ounces of gold, because he had seen had said Queno having
seen.

First paid the fine, and then allowed pleyto defend against the advice of the great Desterliam,
where he said this:

Astros justice founts of knowledge, mirrors of truth, which lead to the seriousness of Unix the
hardness of iron, the brightness of the diamond, and no little affinity with gold, allowed siéndome
speak before this August assembly, I swear by Orosmades, have never seen nor respectable dog of the
Queen, nor the sacred horse of the king of kings. The event has been
like going to count.

Walking walking in the grove where he later met the venerable eunuch, and the illustrious groom
higher. Observed in the sand the tracks of an animal, and easily met was a small dog. Long and
thin grooves, printed in heaps of sand between the tracks of the feet I made it known that
was a bitch, and her tits hung, where I gathered that he had calved a few days to. Other remains
in another direction, which always look flush dexaban sand beside the front foot, showed me that he
had long ears, and as the footsteps of one foot were less deep in the sand than the other three,
pulled by consequence it was, if I dared to speak, a little bitch coxa of our August queen.

In quanto a horse of the king of kings, the truth is that pacing the sidewalks of the forest,
I noticed the signs of the hoofs of a horse, they were all at the same distance. This horse, dixe,
has the perfect canter. In a narrow road that has no more than two and a half yards wide, was at left
and right to sweep the dust in some Parages.

The horse, I guess I have a glue stick and fourth, with its moves to right and to left, has
swept this dust. Vnder trees forming a canopy of two yards high, were freshly fallen leaves of
the branches, and knew that he had forsaken down the horse, which therefore had two Yaras.
Your brakes must be gold of twenty-three carats, because, having scrubbed his head against
a stone snack I've seen was playing, I did the test. Finally, brands that have forsaken the
horseshoes on rocks other species have proved that I was eleven silver money.

Abode stunned all the judges with astute sense to Zadig, and the news came the king and queen.
In lobbies, rooms, cabinets and did not speak more than Zadig, and King ordered him to be A
REFUND OF THE fine of four hundred ounces of gold they had been sentenced since there were
few magicians burn opinion as a sorcerer.

They went with great pomp home to the clerk of the cause, sheriffs and prosecutors, to take their
four hundred ounces, not save costs by more than three hundred ninety-eight clerks truth is
that They asked for a gratuity.

Zadig was looking very dangerous thing to know too much, made firm resolution not to say On another
occasion I had ever seen, and the occasion was not long in coming. A state inmate escaped, and passed
vnder Zadig balconies.

They took the statement as he had not declared nothing, and having established that he had out
on the balcony, was sentenced by size Crime do to pay five hundred ounces gold, and thanked
the judges for their great kindness, that this was the custom in Babylon, Great God, he said Zadig
each other, which unfortunately is who walks in the woods where you pass the King's horse,
or the dog of the Queen! What Hazard, who runs his balcony overlooks! How very difficult it
is to be happy in this life!

CHAPTER IV.

The envious.

Zadig appealed to friendship and comfort to the philosophy for the ills that had made the fortune.
In a suburb of Babylon had a house furnished with much taste, and there met arts and recreation worthy
of a fine man. In the morning his library was open for all the wise and evening his table to
persons of good education. But very soon he perceived it was too dangerous to try to scholars.
Suscitóse a fierce debate about a law of Zoroaster, which forbids eating faucet. "As they
are not the faucet, said one, if no such animal? Force is that it has, said others, when you
do not want Zoroaster eat. Zadig, by them comply, he said to them: I do not eat faucet, if there
are taps, and if not available, we will eat less, and thus to obey
Zoroaster.

There was a wise writer who had composed a work in thirteen folio volumes about properties of
the taps, great Theurgists, which went to all haste to submit to the Archmage Drastanés, the
most foolish, and consequence to the most fanatic of the Chaldeans to those remote times. In
honor and glory of the Sun, would have this sent to impale Zadig, and then prayed breviary of Zoroaster
with more pious compunction. His friend Cador (a friend is worth more than a hundred priests)
went to see the old Drastanés, and told him this: Glory to the Sun and faucets; nobody touch
the hair to Zadig, who was a saint, and has taps in his yard, not eat: his accuser himself, which
is a heretic. Why, has not substantiated that are neither filthy nor the solipeds Rabbits? Well,
well, he said Drastanés, trembling, shaking his head, to Zadig has been of impaling, because
they have misconceptions about the glyphs, and other, because he has spoken without regard
to rabbits. Cador Apaciguólo all through a palace toilet girl, whom he had fact a boy, had much
the qual influx with the school of wizards, and not impaled to anyone, the murmured something
many doctors, and therefore decline and the next Babylon. Zadig was
saying: How does happiness figure?

All the earth haunts me up Imaginary Beings, and cursing of the wise, decided to stick to live with
people fine.

Reuníanse at home the finest treatment sugetos of Babylon, and the kindest ladies; servíanse fine
dining, but sometimes preceded the academies, and encouraged friendly conversations, that no
one aspired to drive them out of acute, which is half very certain
to be a fool, and tarnish the most brilliant gatherings.

Dishes and friends were not chosen by the pride that all preferred the appearance of reality,
and thus a robust estimate grange by That same least she aspired.

He lived in front of his house a certain Arimazo, sugeto carrying the perversity of his courage in recorded
physiognomy: corroíale envy, and bursting with vanity, separate dexando was one presumed to know
annoying. As the fine people made fun of him, he retaliated speaking ill of them. With difficulty sycophants
met at his house because he was rich. Importunábale the noise of cars entering the night with Zadig,
but most of it annoyed the heard him praise. Sometimes went to his house, and sat at the table
without getting "invites corrupting the joy of the whole company, as they say it infects the
food harpies they touch. He was succeeded by one day we wanted to give a banquet to a lady,
who, rather than admit, went to dinner with Zadig, and again, with both speaking at the palace,
it was a minister that he invited Zadig to supper, and not told him anything to Arimazo. In
such weak foundations lie at times the most cruel enemy.

This man, surnamed Babylon envious wanted Zadig upset because he called the blessed. A hundred
times a day, says Zoroaster, opportunity is to do harm, and to do well just once a year.

He went home to envious Zadig, And he was walking through the gardens with two friends and
a lady who claimed to some flowers, not another soul to be said. We tried a war that had just
ended with joy the king to the prince of Hircania, his feudal lord. Zadig that in this short
war had given repeated evidence of value, to much acclaim the king and the queen still more.
He took his book from memory, and four verses he wrote in suddenly, he gave to reading his beautiful
hostess, but though his friends begged him they are read, out of modesty, or perhaps by a
very discreet self, he would not: that well knew that the verses of sudden events are only good
for those for whom it is made. Tore it in two leaf memorandum book in which he had written, and
pulled the two pieces to a bower of roses, where it was in vain look for them. Soon began to
drizzle and they all returned to the classrooms, but the envious who had stayed in the garden,
both recorded that gave with one half of the leaf, the qual was torn so that half of each line that
was filled a row direction, and even a short verse, and most foreign
is that, by a perhaps even more extraordinary, the meaning of such
verses were short infectivity was an atrocious against the king.

     Leíase them:
     
     A nasty monster Today governing
     the Chaldean; His throne invincible The ugly power itself,

For the
first time in his life he thought happily envious, having to lose
a man of good and friendly.

Horrible drunk in joy, went to the same king the satire written Zadig feathered, And he, with
his two friends and the lady was taken to jail, and was formed because, without being worthy
of hearing him. Stood the envious, when he had sentenced in the way which was to pass, and
told him that his verses were worthless. Not missed Zadig of poet felt yet in the soul be condemned
as guilty of lese-majesty, and dexar two friends and a beautiful lady in jail for a crime he
did not commit. Not allowed claim anything in his defense, because the book of memory was clear,
and that this was the style Babylon. Then walked to the scaffold, through vast ranks of people curious,
none dared to sympathize with him, but thronged to consider which side pony, and if it was
to die with the breath. His relatives were the only mourn, for they did not inherit, having confiscated
three-fourths of its flow to the Exchequer, and the rest to the envious.

While it was preparing to die, the bird flew from the balcony of the king, and came to rest roses
in the garden of Zadig.

The wind had knocked down a peach of a tree immediately which had fallen on a piece of a written
memorandum book, and he had stuck. Grabbed the parrot peach with writing and took it all to the knees
of the king. This curious read some words that meant nothing, and seemed the end of verse. As he
was fond to poetry, and you can always get something with the princes who love songs, gave to
think about the adventure of the parrot. We agreed then the queen of what was in the piece
of Zadig memory book, ordered him to be traxesen, and comparing the two pieces was seen to leave
each other, and the verses of Zadig, read as he had written were the following:

A nasty monster is the bloody war Today alone governs the Chaldean king without frights: Irresistible
love his throne is on earth; Ugly power who does not enjoy the same
tastes.

     
     
     When he ordered the king to Zadig traxeran his presence,
     and out of prison to his two friends and the beautiful lady.

He fell to the ground face Zadig to the king and plants the queen, he entreated her pardon
humbly for the bad poetry he had composed, and spoke with such Donayre, wisdom and wit, that
the monarchs would again see him, turned, and like best. We award the property of the envious
that he had wrongly accused: the restored Zadig all, and only affect the heart of his accuser
was the joy of not losing what they had. Day by day is increasing appreciation that King of Zadig
to: convidábale to all his recreations, and consulted him on all issues. Since that time the
queen began to regard him with complacency that could have serious dangers to her, to her August husband,
Zadig and the entire kingdom, and Zadig to believe that it is not difficult thing to live happily.

CHAPTER
V.

Generous.

Then came the era of the celebrity of a solemn festival to which every five years, because it
was Babylon style solemnly declare, after five years, citizens qual had made the most generous
action. The judges were great and wise men. He stated the first Satrap charge of city government,
the most illustrious actions done in time of his government and the judges voted, and the
king pronounced the decision. End of ground spectators flocked to this solemnity.