 

Was open and I slipped inside. There was no more than a bed in the same style as mine, but large,
calls marriage a crucifix and a wall benditera the headwall, a comfortable, two hangers, a washstand,
a cow couch, two chairs and a rug. The bed was already made, the floor swept and all things
in order, a sign that my uncle had but I got up early. I looked out an open window on the east
wall next to a cupboard, and saw what I had already suspected: the black rocky place, mottled
vegetation cracks wild and separated from the house through an alley slope, slippery slabs.

Returning
to the dining room of the Hall, I found myself with my uncle who
entered it by the front door.

Came weary, leaning on a cane. In the light of day it seemed very different from its design what had
seemed to artificial light. The thin white skin of his face was a shade blue, and in her eyes
and her mouth a very strong expression of longing. However, his "humor" was the usual, and if
otherwise dissimulation, was not known. Was amazed to find myself up so early. Come to see
what was in me if I heard stirring at bed, to enter, in this case, to open up the balcony, if
he wished, and if not, to have pleased to give me good morning. I thanked him very much for
your care, and after hugging him asked how he had spent the night and why so early.

- As always, the son of the soul - contestóme, coughing and wheezing
-.

And may God grant me the worst. In good health, I woke up at dawn, since I have such bad sleep,
I long much the sun, and everything and thus, too much time in bed.

It seemed that the chill of the early morning dew was not feeling good, and so I told him advising
him to beware of him.

- That will be with you - he answered with his usual jocular air -, accustomed to living between
crystals, but among the montunos around here! ... Woe to you Celso uncle the day I can not eat
with a casing of the grace of God! But, let's see, how about you? Have you breakfast and a little
more to your liking? Because there is not so at home, like I said
last night.

And if you have not thought about it, what piece of junk you thought? ... Look, as a lack of
candor! ...

I told him what I was entertaining since I was up and what he had
seen, and I replied, clutching his arm at the same time pulling me
toward the interior Carrejo:

- By the life of eight glasses, man!

... Well, look, in part, I'm glad you started where it started: so you still the best for last ...
Come here, come here!

And he took me in tow to the kitchen, where I found the woman gray, Tona and Chisco, sitting
the lazy and having lunch with some fried cornbread.

Diéronme cheerful good morning, rising very polite, and only time I left my uncle to change with
them a few words, because as soon as he opened a door near the table and on the same wall,
began to call at his side.

Obeying him, I went to a wooden balcony and very much blown line, half of which fell the courtyard
of the stables, which did not pass the center of this facade, and the other half outside. This
could see the whole picture and unhindered. Barrier formed front crossed the mountain opposite the
hill on the left, and another that was to my right, well populated with vegetation at the base,
very dark brown in the middle, from top to bottom, of what might be called its trunk crudísimo
green on the other half, and with the huge gray head, like a skinned skull, dry environment to
the left shoulder with the white bones in the air too. I had the effect that vast green patch,
fine and juicy, then almost face illuminated by a ray of sun, a patch
of velvet rich in a garment of coarse sackcloth.

Forming an angle with the mountain and leaving a gap between the two, ending, crowned ridges
and peaks, which descended from the East brushing it home side with their Bardales.

Within this framework all that looked like a hooded colossi contradanza, extended a snip arable
land in pieces, and boronales prairie, the first of a green velvety, and the latter with thatched
note that gave them the dry stalks, not yet cut, freshly picked corn. From my observation and
this harvest, coming down the ramp toward mountains opposite, and very steep at the same time toward
the river, a rocky weed bristly and crossed paths and Cambera communication with the people whose
houses were, made a flock at the top of the harvest, with the church in the middle, it seemed,
and it was in substance your pastor. In all buildings, with façades lavaditas and doors and
windows wide, I saw so many sides unhappy, sickly beings, mouth and wide-eyed, eager to air and
light that they were missing. And among those faces had a number of expressions, from the pathetic
compassionate to the comic and the grotesque. Was winning some of them take a handout, to soothe the
anxieties of the stomach, waste or a hat to replace the crumbling
chimney, and all of a handle to steady without rolling up the mountain,
in the violent attitude that I saw them.

I was so embedded in this lineage of visions, that even I learned of the reports he was giving
me everything my uncle on the main square. It seemed the entire valley, height relative to
its frame, a trifle choked, and fallen considerábame clouds in the
bottom of a large thimble.

What would Chisco idea of ??heavenly glory, when put only one point
higher than that in the scale of the beautiful and admirable?

Eternal God, how I envy the birds then it flew!

- Tell me, man -
I asked him once, and never thinking that maybe he cut an enthusiastic
speech just on the breadth and health of the valley - where do you
get out of here?

- Jacia HERE? - I asked him in turn.

- Well ...
to ... outward toward the world, we - I replied I flustered as a little
boy careless, fearful thoughts I discovered that I had started the
question.

- Jacia the world! - He repeated with a laugh -.

Well it's funny occurrence, Pispajo! We are here "on the dial or what?

- I meant - I said with a laugh counterfeit celebrating the question of my uncle - that what
are the main outputs ...

- Ya, ya, and I thought I had soaked - he answered it, leaving the
air suddenly roistering - occurrence but as yours is either a joke
mayor, and I'm like ... Well I'll tell you: one of the main outputs
is the way to where you came last night, the next door ours.

- Current.

-
And the other is what is down there on the left hand of the river
the same output.

Can not you see a road that goes over it following all the side? The bridge is here on the left, among
those thickets. You may be confused with them so old that is ... As for that way it goes ...

- How far?

- Far!

... Piece of junk! to the sea, if you should.

- Well, but where?

-
For downstream, the river below ... from town to town.

Do you want to name them one by one?

- No need.

- Until you come to a road.

If you follow the right, because you pull it mundane, will follow,
and if you're happy with less, he crosses, and not the vera apartándote
river, in no time you'll hit the Jocic at sea ... Look, man, here
you see me and over the years that I have, do not reach the fourth
time I've been to Santander.

The first with your aunt, recently married to her.

Then there was the royal road of which I speak, which is yesterday,
and had to go looking further.

We were on horseback, as always has been since here for the wealthy.

She, in a blue velvet chair and cloves gilded with wedding finery, fashionable then. Campara
really, because it was hard nice weekend ... Piece of junk, if it was! We ate quickly and jicimos
night on the town of San Vicente, The next day opened doors and windows to see us leave ...
Look, man, little more than a month before he left Spain, a clean shot, the last thief Pepe's
Bottles ... Fully. Well then, stop bit in the city because we did not like that. The second
time was a result of the twenty-three, with a relative of the promise, he wanted, like me, see
how things were going in the world, after taringa who had taken the idiots of the "Pitita."
Cuartajo, what gave it fulfilled ... and what were those carried deserved! For the third yesterday,
as they say, no more than pleased to know I own the road what it was of fierru had just premiered
... And to count, then found out you do not pass twelve which I have left the valley for more
than two leagues ... And I assure you that never sleep out of it, dream JICE art, and all the food that
is not my home, I have always known to stuffing without substance and I do not see these picachones
overhead where I walk like I do not see that thing like no trace, and even the sea of I think
a pozuca coast compared to the widths of the valley ... Of houses in Ringle not speak to me, piece
of junk! because only in mind I'm short of breath and I ajoga hiccups ... The truth, Marcelo ...
Every man for himself, and with each other. And in this respective, of knowing you have in this
valley there are people who fall for old without leaving him more beyond the running of "encourage"
a dog with asthma. And die as satisfied as if jartura the world die of you know, as has happen
to me tomorrow. Believe me, son, the less burden cravings out of this life is more passable the
path of another. Some mine Jalla digging in a corner of his garden, and some people does not
give her half the land stirring Christendom. Now, you tell me who is more fortunate of the
two and more worthy of envy ... Gravel! and go on with the story, as I give leave for the atajaderos.
Where we stayed with her? What else do you want to know?

- For the moment - I replied, astonished at his former vivacity of imagination and freedom of
"Peak", which seemed incompatible with the condition that you had - if the landscape widens
beyond the gap where the river seeps.

- On the contrary - he answered -: as you bend the corner, the peaks again encalabrinar beside
the river, as soon as one side to another, if not both at once. Widths of them are not even the royal
road: half day of shooting, water down a horse good feet, a walk, speak, and short ... In front
of that gap have that other of the right hand, which gets a strip
that will end in a point in there.

Do you see? at the foot of the mountain above stained green. As for the alleys is choice but
to go climbing up the brambles ... In short, man, get that in every shatters you see a mountain
of them, there is a path where these people go through the portal
as of the church and walk and take the air and please the eye and
healthy unemployed men chest, like you.

You'll see, piece of junk! and see what is good.

- I hope so - I answered untruthfully than I thought -. And tell you - I added pointing at the same
time with your finger there - what does that green spot in which I I had noticed before you
mentioned it to me?

- Oh! - Contestóme raising both arms at once - that's the richness of the place, friend! That is the
"Prao-Council" here, because there are other people who have theirs appropriate, but not like
ours. Quia! Pispajo as you want! Is every one of these neighbors: a wealth of grass that is shared
"by adra" every year.

You'll see, you'll see what pilgrimage is assembled on the day of harvest, if you take here the first
arriving in August ...

- But how in the world - asked truly amazed at what my uncle told me - is can mow in that ravine,
and down into the valley what it is mow, much less climb there to mow and pick it up?

My uncle laughed at what he called my innocence, "with as much as I knew the world", and promising
explaining what amazed me the time the request "on the ground" would not tell me more.

- And in settlement - he concluded - what do you think of everything you've seen? ... because I
do not think miss anything you have not set eyes.

- Yes, sir - I
said to the point -: missing something I'm looking for them since
I started looking this morning, and I find it anywhere.

- And what
else is it, man?

- For a span of flat land.

- Piece of junk! - Cried
my uncle here, looking at me with astonishment painted on the eyes
- how on earth Jaller's has what not?

- Do not! - I cried in my turn.

-
No, man, no - he insisted with the utmost seriousness -.

I understood that you knew the running here as gospel.

- And what that is that?

- That there is in this whole valley plain
Don Celso room.

"Oístelo now? - Added laughing and staring me in the face with his little eyes of fox -. Then
watch it.

And laughed again, and I laughed myself, but lip service, thus leaving
both the balcony, we returned to the kitchen, lazy as I felt like
eating breakfast that morning.

At that breakfast and lunch in the acquired two new data, which resulted from little account added
to those already possessed: the bread was made in the tavern batches
each midweek, and there was no other than corned beef, except Sunday,
which killed a cow in the village.

Knew there was fresh, good and every day, more than milk and their
preparations ... precisely what was at odds with the likes of my palate
and the my stomach juices.

A few nights I spent in my life so long, so sad and so unbearable
restlessness, as of that day.

Because already seen and recognized in all its phases, across, over and deep, the land on which
I had to put up a fight, but fight to death against habits and refinements
of my life man of the world, complacent, picky and "elegant" that
meat had me trembling.

Ay! all that my strength built in Madrid in the heat of reckless enthusiasm and sentimental moments
breaks down, and the cold reasoning that I had covered in hours of sanity to fend off the attacks
of my uncle when I called him until by love of God, revived in my head with a push and a colorful
force that frightened me. Sucedíame then what the reckless that a false pride, a nervous start
and poorly disguised vanity, descends to the bottom of a cliff. Already down, and made the men,
and showed her coming up it will go the boldest ... Current.

But now we must climb. How? Where? ... And there she is, merciful God!

Only three ways I could return to light and freedom in the world, or at the end and finishing
of ... (How awful! To trip over the course without having sought me with desire I hated), or
the restoration of the poor guy, which is impossible at his age and
what deadly ailment suffered, or I get him all to low at best, rolling
luggage when I felt like it and go back to Madrid by the shortest
route, which I thought was a dirty trick that could cost the life
of the kindly octogenarian, for whom my presence in their house seemed
to be the bread and the sun that nurtured him and cheered him.

That is, two with the camera, God knows how long, and not franquearía I never, repugnance
of my consciousness. In short, an eternity.

If in the meantime had been in me a natural inclination, any ability of making even pleasurable to
many men, who are villagers, country life, thank goodness, but for Unfortunately mine, all
in all I was missing. I was not a hunter, and had handled other weapons the trim in the halls
of fire, or understand a word of cattle, or crops, or of trees, or vegetables, or painted
or made verses, and with respect to Mrs. Nature that of the lofty
mountains and valleys and shady forests melancholy and diaphanous
mists, and the symphonies of 'soft Favonius "between the bare branches,
and the roar of the hurricane on the revolts elusive deep alleys,
seen up close, better than a mother, I thought stepmother cruel jailer,
shivering with fear and gave me his face grim, the closure that I
had and entertainment that gave me ... And all this had to be added
to the winter with its cold, its fogs, its rains and its blizzards,
was already hovering peaks above the contour and the house of my uncle
... And although, for mercy God, I do not happen there than he would
be so long, so long!

... Devoured many books without a shred of substance them out! Chamuscones many in the kitchen!
Much indigestion bullshit! Many short rides! Counted how many cracks in the soil mechanically
with eyes!