 And of course I do not call service to the passions, the strong passions,
the tragic passions. Service call to the emptiness of the spirits are refined [7].

* * *

Alvarez was first and above all self-taught. As was his custom every student - says one of his biographers
- to make marginal annotations to the works read, underlining paragraphs that interested him and
scoring in the first pages of the book read the number that will to further consultation.
Also, worth of notebooks that had extracts, notes, grouped observations, ready to be used
in his writings.

There are still many without having fulfilled its purpose - as a confession of that noble strain stem
tutor - a cause of premature death.

Its work is recent method. The bustle of the daily struggle prevented him rest and serenity so
necessary to the speculations of spirit.

His tenure in the military, for journalism, for the courts, and as a lawyer or judge, its incursion
into the political arena, his dedication to educational work as a teacher of military education,
secondary and university acting as a member of numerous scientific or cultural institutions,
or as in many diverse scientific conferences opinion, national or international, and their performance
of official nation or province; all that prevented him from doing his work methodically and
quietly, in specialization.

So in that laborious daily struggle every path was built with admirable persistence and common
energy. It is amazing to imagine what would have taken this up beautifully brain if fortune would
have been favorable and could devote himself to study, no material concerns are as for the intellectual
shackles!

Uniquely characterized his early works the copy in dating. Its huge readings encyclopedic overturning
the will there, along with personal observations of people, events
and things the viewer discovers the sole right sight, will the relevant
clause of the author or foreign national who sister or matches, accompanied
by his remark tasty.

Or will the story, the story, the historical fact, the Creole proverb
brought to account to satirize and deduce their logical consequences.

Well have been written his first book, especially "South America", "Manual of political pathology"
and "Essay on Education."

IV .-- THE RELIGIOUS ISSUE

The religious issue has worried constantly Álvarez. Was ringing with unparalleled persistent about
it, urging his fellow citizens to study science, which put face to face with the religious precept.
It was "a liberal San Pablo," said Joaquín V. Gonzalez with over
success.

It has been alleged and repróchasele as a feature of bad taste this emphasis, but, Alvarez
was right. In our country, religion takes many forms curious, is infiltrated every corner of social life:
at school, at home, in government, administration, under the law. And peers with a sharp eye
for the right moment to regain the lost position.

Often argued that the religious question is not present, she has been
resolved in our country in the world is no longer questioned.

Nothing is more false or fanciful that this assertion. The religious question is topical in the
world today more than ever, and it comes out there mystical or religious revival in humanity
... But the undeniable fact is that war has cast into doubt the old ethical rules governing humanity
today, and in the foreground, religious norms.

In our country the religious problem is topical, Sarmiento to this part, especially practice
in his face. Civil registration with civil marriage, secular law and education, are gains of the secular
spirit of religious power. Seemingly, the struggle - that muffled roars in different social
groups - from religious precept and ideals Lay has increasingly emphasized.

Even,

therefore, may justly tachársele of inactual Alvarez. In this connection, is accused of "materialist",
had made up its mind on such extreme readings - the "Unique" sources of their culture, says
a critic - to approach old, backward, and saw Within this perspective the religious problem.

Engineers
believe that this indictment has answered in a definitive manner: "Nothing in Indeed - he says
- more false than the alleged identity of superstition with idealism, no There is nothing more
awkward than the vulgar to suggest that all secular moralists are "materialists" and lack of
ideals "and then adds:" There is nothing morally more materialistic practices outside of all
religions known and scrupulous capacity to set their rates to intercede with the deity, nothing
more idealist who practice and preach the virtue truth as did most
of the philosophers who died at the stake on charges of heresy.

In this sense moral - and there is no one to appreciate an ideal
planter - Agustín Alvarez was an idealist all his life, never adhering
to the materialism of any known religion "[8].

V. - THE EDUCATOR

Alvarez was a teacher in the broadest sense of the word.

His temperament and his teacher vocation for teaching is manifested in many forms. Arguably
it was a constant concern.

Taught in the university chair - say their students - with real fervor. At the conference public,
the booklet and the book puts that same anointing teaching.

"Our disease is ignorance, its causes fanaticism" - type -. "The remedy is school, the physician
is the teacher.

"warns that America lives on" the holy candles to see who should work miracles, and will not turn
lights on intelligence children to light the way of life. "Trust in the school as the cure
for all our ills, but the school that science education, based on
the observation nature, secular education, for school, his good understanding,
it must teach the freedom and work and not for submission and abandonment.

His concern on the matter speak very clearly the substantial pages
left to die.

In his "Essay on Education" appeared in moments of greatest confusion of plans and programs Maximum
Victoria says: "The three chimes ringer called High Mass when wrote them. "

ARTURO E. DE LA MOTA.

THE EVOLUTION OF THE HUMAN SPIRIT

THE MOTHER OF THE LAMB

The specific need of understanding is the explanation, as the specific need stomach is food.
Hunger and curiosity, then, are the two primitive factors fundamental human: one to ensure the
physical growth, the other to ensure mental growth, also necessary
for the preservation of the individual and the species.

No wings, no tail, no horn, no claws, no fangs, no poison, no spikes, no horns, no shell, no agility,
just for the intelligence man could overcome the other animal species
in the struggle for life, but, instead, the intelligence was in itself
a weapon or capable of developing power indefinitely, to rise higher
than birds and fall lower than the reptiles.

It is necessary to work to live, and we need to know to act.

Knowing the right or vice versa taste good or taste bad, it makes no difference to determine
the action or inaction and conduct in them, and just different to the outcome.

To find your way in the world, beyond the habit inherited instinct,
it is necessary to a concept, an idea, an explanation of the world,
very rough at first, and more and more elaborated later, because only
crude explanations can satisfy the understandings crude and refined
explanations can only satisfy the refined spirits.

Thus, for the fundamental gullibility of the child, the savage and ignorant, explanations are all
the more credible the more outrageous, more extraordinary, more fantastic, that that is, more
attractive, more impressive on the imagination predominant in them.

Systems of explanation of the universe, a priori beliefs about the unknown, were so necessary
to man to party and perform in the tangle of goods and evils that life unfolds, as the paths
and roads to travel on the ground, and both traffic areas the expansion necessarily had to produce
widening of the road.

Discover how and why to be specific to the facts and things was impossible. Imagine, was easy and inevitable,
then surrounded in all directions by the mystery, urged on by the need to know to act and prodded
by curious to know, men had to resort to the brooding fatally to decipher the mysteries of the
universe and life, to orient ourselves in the world and life, and
the mad house had to be responsible for furnish and equip the house.

For early man, the known history of their actions, the reason for their actions was inside that
mystery we call the will, and according to this first factor of own facts were explained,
of course, the actions of others as effects of other wills in other people, animals and things,
like the child who is angry with toys disobedient to their whims
and breaks, because the perpetrators believe that is voluntary; as
the cowboys of the range they believe that the mountain known to outsiders
and triggers then the storm to show their displeasure, as superstitious
Neapolitans believe that the proceedings do not like the priests and
flushed with rage when one goes from passengers.

Taking the first thing known - the self - as a basis or reference point for explanation of
other things, the man was necessarily the epitome of all things real
world, of course, and all the imaginary world then pleading directly
at the sun beginning to send the light and heat and avoided the clouds
and eclipses, and then Horus, Dionysus, to Phoebus Apollo, the Lord,
God, San Antonio or San Francisco.

Starting by assuming a willingness on or behind things to explain the particular of things,
the man reached by successive refinement, to imagine the unseen powers
as producers of incomprehensible facts, embodying them later in the
fetish for afraid to pay them, that is, worship.

And once conceived imaginary factors of the facts and things, came the need to influence those
to influence them, and the wizard - embryo of the bishop - took his position in the tribe the
useful function of scaring away evil spirits to heal patients.

The need to bring the role and brings the official procedure. The need to act on the invisible
powers brought to the magician and the magician brought magic, witchcraft second grade, and
bifurcated into two branches or specialties in Judaism and paganism,
a to appease the angry imaginary powers or promote them through sacrifices
laudatory and genuflecting, as "the blood and suffering of humans
were the nectar of the gods ", the other to forecast or predict its
determinations, interpreting, as the method of the prophets, the visions
of the imagination exalted by fasting and solitude, in Judaism, or
the dreams and omens, according to the method of fortune tellers and
soothsayers in paganism.

Meanwhile, next to the old mythologies and liturgies perfected philosophy arise and Greek literature,
which, decreasing human gullibility, the prestige first break the diviners of the future,
then the actual effectiveness of the current theogonies for to unmet human curiosity widened
in the Greco-Roman. Y man needs, then, on the shores of the Mediterranean, a new explanation
of facts and things in the world, and is provided by the Christian supernaturalism, with two testaments
as a new theory of the facts and things, and the sacraments - witchcraft third grade - as a
new vehicle of communication between human beings suffer accidents of life and events in the
universe, and the superhuman beings that occur, discontinue or change
at will.

East astrologers were to investigate the future questioning the stars and necromancers to know the
hidden things of the occult, in the West exorcists to expel the demons
from the body of the possessed, and blessed to induce the dead to
produce goods and avoid evils to the living.

Albeit very slowly, because the Church, forbidding the doubt and curiosity to preserve its tenets,
has dented the pricks that drive men to seek, investigate and find out to know, the human mind
has always been growing in scope and complexity, straight and parallel with reduced fear of witches, goblins,
devils and basilisks and the last suit or catechism imaginary terrors
and hopes, with the revelations made of the prophets and apostles,
comes, too, were too tight.

The exorcism, which had thousands of thousands victims, burning heretics,
haunted and possessed, - hysterical, crazy and wise - he could not
hold to human intelligence reaching more and dropped the first, definitely,
at the dawn of the nineteenth century.

At first, the Church, then all-powerful, fighting disbelief nascent able to maintain the integrity
of your explanation, creed, destroying or crushing which, since the Renaissance, began to excel
in mental capacity, but they continue to sprout everywhere and in such a progression that
war, excommunication, torture and the stake, operating at the maximum, not enough at last to
be removed, and in turn, she also begins to retreat, before the rising
tide of dissatisfaction with the curious ultimate explanation of nature
and the supernatural.

Because alchemy has been opening the way to physics and chemistry, have revived the philosophy,
literature and art, and human understanding, on the road again, beginning
to repel the miracles of the dead and the prophets hysterical aberrations
and Doctors of the Church, following the poor in spirit communion.

A new explanation of the world is becoming necessary for open minds Europe and America, and started
in the last century the positive sciences, regardless unknowable origin of things to explain the
facts of nature natural causes; leaving why they occur, which until now has spread to the faithful
and unfaithful men, bitter and angry each other on their different priori explanation of the mysteries
the universe to contract to investigate how they are produced, that being yourself for all
observers, is a common capital for men of all races, all colors,
locations and climates, a bond of mutual approach for mutual benefit.

And without a priesthood in isolation from family and homeland and devoted exclusively to propagate
and operate without orders of chivalry and preachers to its service without Jesuits fighters their
flanks, without missionaries to disseminate it without a pope at its head, not despots to impose
it by force, the ultimate explanation of universe and life expands, diffuses and spreads spontaneously,
not on the edge of the sword, and medieval religions, but on the wings of the book and newspaper,
enlisting its own intrinsic superiority to all men and women, as beyond the intellectual level
of the past that occurred official superstitions official religions, because just as fetishism
Catholic v. gr. it is inappropriate for black African tribes, because it is too big for your understanding
still too narrow, it is also inappropriate for unwrapped minds of Europe and America because
it is too small and too petty.

Gross ignorance of the grossest superstition, and helping the mild climate and soil fertility in
privileged regions, one at another superstition to highest of the highest to science compulsory
creed to free thought, truth revealed the truth demonstrated, in the religious magic rational
mechanics; of palms blessed the lightning rod, the miracle steam, railway, telegraph, telephone,
of rogation to the surgery and the serum of ecclesiastical censorship to freedom of the press;
"the holy ignorance" to compulsory education, this has been the upward march human spirit, driven
by the need to know the why of things to behave opposite things.

Question of thousands or hundreds of centuries to climb the first steps of evolution, tens only to
the past, has become, under the impulse of instruction liberal public,
a matter of only dozens of years to achieve significant capacity increases
mental in the individual and the community.

Well, according to known psychophysiological laws, exercising the body develops, and some part
of this or the ability to reproduce, spread, also roughly the offspring by so that, once lifted
up by men and upper and middle of an era moral or intellectual level of the subsequent reporting
enterprise, emerging for their respective race from a base platform or higher, go further with
the same flow or momentum, that is what explains the notorious fact that men and upper middle France
For example, when taken together, are worth many times more than Spain, in the same alleged
Latin race, or those of Argentina - who had a Rivadavia, a Mitre and Sarmiento, - much more
than those of Bolivia, which has had many bishops and any educator in America itself the South
and the Pope, which explains that a Voltaire, a Michelet, a Renan, a Taine, a France, being a natural
in France, would be an amazing event in Spain, absolutely impossible
in Morocco