 As the Government,
I repeat the phrase that I have given elsewhere. "He has made the role of dog in the manger.
"Based on the idea of ??monopoly and centralization, wanted to regulate it everything. Powerless, has
not done anything selfish, has never ceased to do, a friend of isolation, closed the door to communications.
La Mancha has been very rich and happy just to output the huge production of their lands, almost
spontaneous, mainly cereals, and wine oil, wool and other items. But nestled between mountains,
no roads, no freedom change or industry, and flawed population into habits of idleness and
passive obedience, Mancha life (if the vegetation can be called life) has been concentrated in
cities and villas. Thus, the fields have been deserted, no houses, no trees, no irrigation, and
populations has perpetuated poverty by the concentration of idle hands.

And this concentration, which is noted in the two main castle, has been, in turn, the cause
of the persistence of bad governance. The man in the field is, in general, the most independent,
equal, and for the life you lead and influence of nature around him, and because the action
of the authority will achieve less. Concentrated the population in cities and towns, not only ends
the life between town and village, but which, being more immediate and active the weight of
authority on ignorant masses abject obedience to passively fits all tyranny, the degraded
at all, and the centralization Absolute makes it easier to establish and more durable. I have found
the key to almost all social phenomena that distinguish the Castile of Spain Catalan Moorish and
Basque, in the substantial difference that shows in the way the population is has concentrated
or distributed.

Once across the mountains of the Montes de Toledo, leaving behind the north, the great basin
Tajo, the vast panorama seemed to be the same, because there is a singular resemblance between
the and the Guadiana basin. Going to everyday use, we saw distinctly in the distance with the
aid telescope, on a hill, leaning against a buttress of the mountain we had just cut, the ancient
town of Consuegra, about 9.000 people (belonging to the Toledo province), there are still remains
of great Roman works, and highlights on a steep hill the ruins of an ancient castle that is supposed
to be the work of Trajan. Pass then the town of Madridejos, which has about 7,000 inhabitants, a
rate which does not require description, because everything is uniform la Mancha. After the
town completes the province Toledo and later starts of Ciudad Real, which has its southern limit
in central of the Sierra Morena.

Sort are to the left of the poor villages via Inheritance and Camus, cut throat called Port-Lapiche
hilly, rocky hills where vegetate between five hundred civilians Sancho Panza sad crosses the region
of Villalta, where ducks splash as solitary other 227 Mancha, between lakes without drainage,
and in the middle of a fertile but poorly cultivated plain is given by Manzanares, important town,
which has some orchards in nursing homes, but HOWEVER producing fewer apples than beggars. It
was already ten o'clock at night when we arrived, hungry and ground, to the illustrious Valdepeñas,
renowned for its popular wines, not by otherwise. Anyone would think that the 10.800 inhabitants
of the valley-of-rocks would live half tipsy, getting a taste to their pipes and making every
tavern one Capua. Nothing that in Spain the people who drink less wine are the most in producing,
his sobriety is singular, and almost everyone prefers the use of poor water quality.

The meal was served at the inn of the proceedings, and to a hostess honors moody, mean between
Dulcinea and Maritornes, overwhelmed us with chickens and Partridge made in every way imaginable,
and the usual cooked chickpeas, so macadamize solid as stone. They drank the worst wine you'll
find in Valdepeñas Spain, "In the blacksmith house wooden hoe." With the exception of large
cities, where some hotels or inns is served with pleasure, Spain is a country where the table
is a matter of quantity rather than quality. That is a sober and frugal people, and taste HOWEVER
of hoteliers is to agglomerate piles of dishes, their order and discernment, as if it were only
satiate the guest or traveler. Hence it is often the opposite effect because many dishes are
just different editions of the first one to enter the restaurant scene.

We had not finished cleaning the mouth when he called us to Mayoral relentless diligence. Digestion
was necessary to make the jumps, after eating in abbreviated form under the scheme Impossible gallinaceous
sleeping in that cave is called saloon, stiff as a stake and tossed atrociously by the Hulk which
is Mayoral pilot! We passed through Santa-Cruz-de-Mudela, population of 5,500 souls, silent as
a tomb, in the shadows of the night and play Almuradiel (about 600) began to climb the crossroads
of the Sierra Morena, where for so long had their altars Caco God, between horrible and awesome gorges
granite rocks. Those times have gone entirely, and the heroic style robber has closed almost all
studies in the Spanish peninsula, and its legacy has been taken in cities most distinguished
and civilized children. Sierra Morena is quieter closed a church, and who exercised their
industry there have been superseded by Ministers State players Exchange, smugglers aristocratic
canons bulls vendors, MPs and other personalities and of unblemished repute, rigorously pursued
energy and vice, vagrancy, crime ... and money.

Nothing more grandly vague, romantic and solemn scene is offered in
the eyes of traveler in the heart of Sierra Morena, in the silence
of the night and no moon.

Stagecoach conference with a bang by causeways built to peak on the banks of the great cliffs,
producing in the dark breast of the mountains thousand different echoes. The huge granite hills,
naked abrupt, sometimes torn, intertwined maze, separated by deep pits and frightening, noting spikes
here and there, and cones, and domes and giant moles, covered sad parts of shrubs, with white flowers
and mosses and ferns, the shadows and clear that project, according to the inflection of the
ground, the chill of night noise streams in the depths, the fearful loneliness of those places
that seem dens of robbers or wild beasts and birds of prey: all that gives the scene the darkest
characters and a special interest.

Seeing those formidable barriers granite includes secular tenacious resistance of both races who
fought for eight centuries, supported and defended over and over
with the power of nature and disputing the ground inch by inch, in
the narrow gorges of the mountains.

Also, the observed is an excuse (but sophistry) to solitary confinement for so many centuries
has prevailed in Spain.

La Mancha was over, and we played in our Milky Way, after Tembleque, with a total population
of 34.500 inhabitants clustered in seven localities [3].

We had already passed the awful gorges of decriminalization dawn (!!); dogs would begin to
spread their vague clarity. Very sleepy and tired dormitábamos and, in a kind of nightmare and
slumber, when opened the horizon at noon. The beautiful Andalusia, the country of love and art, fertility
and work began on the heights of Santa Elena.

* * * * *

       

PART FIVE.

       THE ANDALUSIA.

       * * * * *

CHAPTER I.

* * * * *

JAEN Y GRANADA.

We walked up near Santa Elena, 210 kilometers from Madrid, and we were missing 218 to complete
428 of the distance between Granada and Madrid. But what a difference in the appearance of the two
counties! Gone was the Gothic race, the Spanish society, genuine representative da old Spain. Later,
some beautiful original groups of the Germanic race, and then a people profoundly changed by
the infusion of Arab blood and traditions industrial activity and artistic genius of the great
oriental and African tribes.

In Santa Elena, a small population of some 600 modern people, the mountains seem to open to give way to
life, the sky is now more beautiful, more delicious air, and nature
smiles.

Scarcely a century ago the Sierra Morena was a desert, a vast succession of intersections appalling,
with no sign of life, industry or trade. Charles III (the only king liberal and positively
good that Spain has had) decided to bring forth life in the middle of this desert, founding colonies
in Sierra important farmers vigorous for which not only served as the Spanish, but he brought
German immigrants, many of them Protestants, themselves to give examples and encourage healthy cross-fertilization
races. It is to these measures to be the existence of seven new towns in the Sierra Morena.

Almuradiel
located next setentrional, is the first. The other six, corresponding to High Andalusia (Jaen
province) are: Santa Elena, Las Navas de Tolosa (famous for the battle won there in 1212 King Alfonso
VIII against the Moorish king, Aben Muhammad), Carolina (Which was
named after Charles III), Charcoal, Aldea-del-Rio and Guarroman.

The population total of six colonies in Andalusia amounts to 7.400 individuals, which correspond 4.728
to Carolina. Nothing more interesting than the contrast of these populations and their surrounding
fields, aspect of the country with the view recorded in all directions. The show is beautiful and
provides proof of man's power to create wealth, even in the midst of nature ungrateful, when
you have the will to fight and overcome obstacles.

A right and left eyes but do not reveal bare hills and sad, formidable buttresses de la Sierra,
destroyed, scrambled eggs, chopped into its huge granite masses, or multiply rigid in labyrinths of
hills and slopes. The picture looks almost like an ocean reef black, brown, gray, sometimes
red, as if the ancient volcanic upheavals had scattered between depths. Up front, more than
240 miles away, is the mighty Sierra-Nevada, running from east to west, similar throughout (less
in Snow-white) á la Morena, and to descry dimly reached the spot where delay the Moorish city
of Jaen, lying at the foot of one of the long spurs of the great
and steep barrier.

In the background is a vast expanse of land traversed by unequal the murky Guadalquivir, where
hills alternate manifold, small plains, inclines, narrow canyons and plains interspersed with
the smiling valleys which is the river in its twists and turns whimsical, down a deep channel and clay,
among large granite rocks and slices in several stretches.

Finally, if you look closer, removing the view of the winding strip of Guadalquivir (á whose
margins delay Ubeda, Baeza and Andujar), there is a series of inclined planes fertile hills and
glens of luxurious vegetation and cultivation esmeradísimo, where the road turns in search of Baylen.
Funny everywhere cottages with vast groves bordering the way or disclaim the inheritance, crystal
streams and busy they seem to leave with joy the harshness of the mountains to go hop on hop to take
the Guadalquivir their murmurs and liquid pearls; extensive vineyards on the most bare hills
and mountains; many plantations of vegetables, grains and seeds; considerable areas populated in
symmetrical rows of olive trees, fruit trees at the edge of the road
and in the gay gardens; olive mill here, beyond a few cows grazing
in the fallow, near the picturesque little house; groups of simple
and happy peasants, working together men and women, the elderly and
children, everywhere vegetables, water jumping, flowers, life-giving
sun, shadows delicious work, activity, strength, life, happiness and
welfare.

The traveler descends with pleasure by those inclined planes, bowing to the Andalusia a land of
love and prosperity, and even if you see that there is much yet to improve or do and that those people
are just in childhood, they are forgiving grace defect qualities they reveal. When the races
have fulfilled their mission in their respective times, according to the measure of his mettle
and character they need in order not to deteriorate, crosses that will rejuvenate and breathe
new print. The great work of the Spanish race in civilization was the conquest of the New World.
Accomplished this great and momentous epic the Spanish people had to seek its strength and activity
items in partnerships with other families of mankind, otherwise down. This truth is revealed
in Spain and in big as in the small. Wherever there is a mixture of races - in Catalonia, Andalusia
and Basque provinces - is the strength, activity, life, and the weakness and stagnation manifested
in Castile, Galicia and Asturias, where race has remained almost
totally pure.

In the villages of the Sierra Morena did, in small, the same observation. There blood Germany
has been mixed with the Hispano-Arabic, resulting in a robust set of families, intelligent, industrious,
peaceful and beautiful type. I loved to contemplate, in passing the funny group of kids, dressed
in pretty toilet, pink, blond, light jumping like birds to round the diligence, in the main
streets of Carolina and others populations, offering travelers flowers and fruit while the
grandmothers and mothers, sitting at the doors of their houses, looked at us with a sympathetic
curiosity, not suspended why the work of hand or the movement of the spindle indefatigable.
They did not ask for alms, although in Andalusia, for reasons mentioned
later, is also in the cities and villas large number of beggars.

Out and the spurs of the mountains and near the bottom of the undulating valley of the Guadalquivir
delay the ancient village of Baylen, on an incline surrounded by high hills and midst of vast
olive groves are the main wealth there. Baylen is a poblachon ugly, uneven, dirty, crooked
streets (legitimate old Spanish type, dating nothing less to the year 729), with a population of
just over 8,000 souls, some object factories very coarse, heavy oil production (very badly prepared,
as almost all of Spain) and many common canvas looms.

Bad lunch there, eat worse, the wine is Malena, and you want to follow up hastily.

Very near the village lies the uneven field where it took place on 16 and 19 July 1808 the battle
and the famous battle of "Baylen," which were the basis of independence Spanish in the fight
against Napoleon. Taking into account the military capacity of the medium General Brown, who won
there, the poor quality of his troops, the vast superiority of French, by their number, quality
and position in the field of battle, and the skills of quarterback Dupont, who sent them, will
find that perhaps has not been without foundation the view that complete loss of the French
army was due to treason.

There were 40.000 French expired almost without a fight: 3,000 dead,
20,000 prisoners, including seven general many thousands scattered,
45 guns and all the equipment in the hands of Brown.

My two companions as loyal French longed to cross the field of Baylen.

- U Do not think - I was told both noble sincerity, - that makes us sigh the memory of defeat, no. Baylen
is that it is not for us but a shameful page in history France, spotted by an unjust war of treachery
and usurpation, committed against a people brother, in spite of the
French nation.

- Then there is no reason to remember the event with
regret.

That evil can not tax consciousness revolutionary France, she weighs about the memory of the
despot who, born of revolution, turned his back and pushed the world
with the weight of his sword.

- It's true - he said Mr. B. ...,--
but history is history, and the vulgar confused often the work of
despots with the people.

We passed shortly by the Guadalquivir, deep, slow and quiet, a beautiful suspension bridge thrown
over huge rocks, touch, about 16 miles Baylen, in the village of Menjivar, located on fertile
ground and with about 1,600 inhabitants, and through fields and pretty rough usually grown, we, about
36 miles ahead, with the curious city of Jaen, of picturesque situation, dominated by a high
hill on top of which holds an old castle formidable a while and now
happily ruined, and the walls and other strengths circulating population.

Jaen,

a city of the third order in Spain, in its proportions, has 21.520 inhabitants, generally poor, despite
the country's suitability for a host of major productions such as wine, oil, grains and minerals.