 Sobresaltose Candido's
twang with which he accompanied this question, and did not dare say it was his wife, because I
really was not, nor unless it was his sister because he was not either, since that this lie was
very frequently used informally do the old: but the soul of Candide was so pure that he could not
deny the truth. This Senorita, 'said I should support your hand, and beg you both to Vueselencia
deign to be godfather to the couple. Hearing this Don Fernando de Ibarra, Figueroa, Mascarenas,
Lampurdan and Souza, won the left hand mustache, laughed with mocking gesture, and ordered Captain
Candide to go to review your company. Obeyed it, and stayed the governor alone with Cunegonde,
he manifested love, warned that the next day would be her husband in front of or behind the church,
as most of you potase Cunegonde. Entreated her that a quarter of an hour to think about it,
talking to the old, and resolved.

Cunegonde and the old came in Bure, and this he said: Senorita, vm. has seventy-two quarterings and
not a farthing, and is in his hand be more principal wife of the lord of South America, that
has a great mustache, and so irrelevant irresistible miss her firmly. The Bulgarian was raped
to vm., A Jew and an Inquisitor have enjoyed her favors, the misfortunes give legitimate rights. If
I were vm. I confess that none would have no qualms about getting married with Mr. Governor,
and get rich at Captain Candide. So said the old with all that authority to his prudence and
his white hair gave him, and while clutching anchors a navichuelo who brought a mayor and two
constables, and was this the cause of his arrival.

Was not mistaken the old to suspect that the thief of money and jewelry Cunegonde in Bangkok, when
he came flying with Candido, was a friar Francis of leeway. The friar wanted to sell a diamond
some of the stolen gems, and this met that were the same as he had bought himself the Grand
Inquisitor. He was imprisoned the holy religious, and own up to who and how he had stolen, and
the path that led Candido and Kinga. Already knew the escape of both: were they in their follow-up
to Cadiz, and without wasting time came a ship in its application. Since the vessel was at
anchor in the port Buenos-Ayres, and went the word that would land a crime mayor, who came
looking for the murderers of the Most Illustrious Grand Inquisitor. When he ordered the discrete
point old in what was to be done. Vm. can not escape, he said to Cunegonde, it has nothing to
fear, which was not vm. who killed his Illustrious, and that the governor was not in love consent
to be touched in the hair of: that we should not wiggle. Will then run Candido, and said: Run away,
my son, if you do not want in an hour burn you alive. The case was not a moment to wander, but?
As Cunegonde had to fend off? ? And where would find asylum?

CHAPTER XIV.

Hosting Cacambo that Candido and did the Jesuits of Paraguay.

Candide had brought with him from Cadiz uncriado horn are many in ports Sea of ??Spain, who
was a quarteron, son of a mongrel in Tucuman, and that he had been an altar boy, sacristan, sailor,
javelin, soldier, and lackey. Cacambo was called, and he loved his master, because his master
was very good. Saddle up in a blink of an eye the two Andalusian horses Candide and said: Come,
Lord, let us follow the advice of the old, and started running without looking even backwards.
Candido shed bitter tears saying my beloved Cunegonde i or h! ? With which is the power to leave
you Quando The governor was to be godfather to our wedding? ? That will be my Cunegonde, who had
brought so far? Will what God wills, he said Cacambo: for all the women found out, God cures,
let's go. ? Where are you taking me? ? Where we go? ? We do without Cunegonde? said Candide.
I'm going to Santiago, replied Cacambo vm. came with the intention of fighting against the Jesuits,
then we will fight in his favor. I know the way and will take you to vm. his kingdom, and
will have much pleasure in having a captain who makes the Exercise of the Bulgarian, vm. will
make a huge source: that when one does not have what is necessary in a world, it looks for the
other, and is a great satisfaction to see and do new things. ? With your you've been in Paraguay?
he said Candide. Is if I have been staggering, "replied Cacambo I was click on the Assumption
College, and I know the government of the parents same as the streets of Cadiz. It is a wonder
on that government. And has over three hundred leagues in diameter, and is divided into thirty
provinces. Parents are owners of everything, and people have nothing: it is the masterpiece of
reason and justice. I see no more for me divine thing parents, here are waging war against
the kings of Spain and Portugal, and confessed in Europe, here kill the Spaniards, and in Madrid
were wide open Heaven: well, is something I love. We hastily, that is vm. to be the most fortunate
humans. iQue taste for parents, when they get to know a captain who
knows the Exercicio Bulgarian!

So I arrived at the first hurdle, he said Cacambo the advance guard that a captain wanted talk
to the Commandant. Were to notify the main guard, and a Paraguayan official ran to lie at the
feet of the commander to give part of the new. Disarmed Candido and Cacambo first, and they took
their Andalusian horses then introduxeronlos between two rows of soldiers, after the quale
was the commander, with his bonnet Teatino since the sword girded tucked his cassock, and a halberd
in his hand, made a sign, and point twenty-four soldiers surrounded the recienvenidos. Wait a sergeant
said to them, because he could not speak the commander, having ordered the father that no Spanish
provincial unthreaded mouth unless it was in his presence, nor tarried above three hours in the
country. ? And where is the reverend father provincial? Cacambo he said. At the stop, since
he said mass, and may not vms. kiss his spurs up to three hours here. If the Captain, who are
dying of hunger as I, he said Cacambo, not Spanish, which is German;
that I think we can have lunch while waiting his Reverend.

Sergeant incontinently was to report to the commander. Blessed be God, 'said this gentleman:
once it is German, we may speak, bring him to my bower. Candido took the point vegetables to a toilet,
a very nice ornate marble colunata color green and gold and where he had locked caged parrot, sparrow,
flies, hummingbirds, Guinea fowl, and other rare sparrow. Was served on gold vaxilla an excellent
lunch, and while they ate Paraguayeses maize grains in the wooden bowls, and in the open field
in the hot sun, metio Reverend Father in the grove. This was a very gallant young man, full
face, white and red, high arched eyebrows, eyes alert, embodied ears roxos lips, the gesture proud,
but not that of a Spanish pride, nor of a Jesuit. Were Candido and Cacambo returned to the weapons
they had taken, and with them the horses Andalusia, and they echo Cacambo feed near the grove,
without losing sight, fearing you play some mischief.

Candido kiss the robe of the commander, and both sat at the table. ? With what is vm. German? Jesuit
said to him in this language. Yes, reverend father, "said Candide. They looked at each other,
In pronouncing these words, with a wonder and an alteration could not be contained in the chest. ?
In which country of Germany is vm.? 'said the Jesuit. In the province of Westphalia dirty, "replied
Candido, a native of the fifth of Thunder-ten-Tronckh. My God! Is it possible? exclaimed the
commander. iQue wonder! cried Candide. ? Is vm.? said the commander. Can not be replied Candide.
Both two are shot each other, embrace, and a sea of ??tears shed. ? With what is vm., Reverend
Father?

IVM., brother of the beautiful Cunegonde; vm., who was killed by the Bulgarians; vm., son of Mr.
Baron, vm., a Jesuit in Paraguay! go, in this world are things strange. iha Pangloss, Pangloss, that
joy was yours if you had not hanged!

He removed the commander of the black slaves and Paraguayeses, who poured wine precious rock crystal
glasses, and gave a thousand times thanks to God and San Ignacio, narrowing Candide in his arms,
while on the faces of both ran copious tears. More vm is enternecera. were astonished, and lose
the trial, continued Candide, when I know that Cunegonde his sister, whom he believed to have
spent the womb, this good and healthy .--? Where? - Here nearby home of the Governor of Buenos
Ayres, and I have come with it to war.

Every word in this long conversation that they said was a new marvel:
his whole soul was pending of language, careful in their ears, and
eyes shining.

A strong Germans, were long space at the table, while came the reverend
father provincial and the commander talk like her beloved Candide.

CHAPTER XV.

GUE death counts Candido's brother gave his beloved Cunegonde.

All my life I'll remember that horrific day that saw the killing of my father and mother and
rape my sister. Quando Bulgarians were removed, no one could give this lovely language sister,
and threw in a cart to my mother, my father and me, two maids, and three boys slaughtered,
to bury a Jesuit church, which is two leagues from the fifth my father. A Jesuit sprinkled
us with holy water, which was very salty, I entered a eye drops, and warned the father that made my
lashes a movement of contraction; set me hand on heart, and felt it beat: I first aid, and
after three weeks I find healthy. You know vm., Dear Candide, which was very bonitillo, grew up with
my beauty age, so that the reverend father Croust, rector of the house, I took a lot of affection,
and gave me the habit of a novice: shortly after I was sent to Rome. The father needed general
a German Jesuit cam lads. The sovereigns of Paraguay Spanish Jesuits allowed at least they can, and
they prefer foreigners, of whom are safer. Rev. father believed I generally good for the cultivation
of the vineyard, and came together a Pole, a Tiroles, and me. So come, I ordained subdeacon,
and I got tenure, and now I am Colonel and priest.

The troops of the King of Spain will be received with brio, and I go guarantor for have been
excommunicated and beaten again. Providence has brought to vm. to favor us here. But is it
true that my dear Cunegonde home here near the Governor of Buenos Ayres? Candido able to confirm
on oath the truth of quanto he had referred, and ran again the cries of both.

Baron is not satisfied to give hugs to Candide, named his brother and his deliverer. Did we, my
dear Candide, said to him, winners get the two together in Buenos-Ayres, and recover my sister
Cunegonde. I dont want anything else, "replied Candide," because I was to marry her, and still
hope to be her husband. Itu, insolent! replied the baron: childs nerve to marry my sister, who
has seventy-two quarterings! i have audacity to speak of such reckless thinking! Candido confusing
to hear these reasons, he replied: Reverend Father, do not matter a damn all quarterings of this
world I have come to reverence your sister to a Jew and an Inquisitor; she is grateful, and
wants to be my wife: Master Pangloss told me we were all equal, and Cunegonde has be mine. We'll
see, rogue, he said the Jesuit Baron de Thunder-ten-Tronckh, handing with a sword blade in
his belt snouts.

Candido desenvayna yours, and puts in the belly to cup the Jesuit baron, but the smoking remove
blood, echo to mourn. Alas, my God, he said, I've taken the life of my old master, my friend
and my brother in law! The best man in the world I am, and I've killed three men and three
are both clerics.

She went to the bulla was Cacambo sentry at the door of the hut. We have no but to sell our lives
dearly, his master told him, no doubt will enter the hut: die with weapons in hand. Cacambo not
suffocating for nothing, grabbed undeterred the cassock of the Baron,
Candide is the echo top, put the bonnet of cadaver Teatino, and made
him ride a horse execute all this in a moment.

Gallop, Sir, the whole world believe that is vm. a Jesuit who takes
orders, and before they come after us, we and outside the borders.

Everything was a pronouncing these words, and fly shouting Plaza Colonel reverend plaza.

CHAPTER XVI.

Which realizes the events of our two travelers with two girls, two Ximian and the Savages called
apricots.

Had already surpassed the barriers Candide and his servant, and still none in the field knew death
the Jesuit tudeseo. The watchman had forgotten Cacambo not to replace good bread chocolate, ham,
fruit, and boots of fine wine, and so they went with their Andalusian horses in an unknown country,
where there is none found beaten path, after it offered to view a meadow strewn with a thousand
rills, and our two walkers dexaron graze their horses, Cacambo proposed
to his master to eat, giving the council the exemplo. ?

Like you, I said Candide, eat ham, after having killed the son of Mr. Baron, and seeing me again
sentenced to not look at the beautiful Cunegonde? What do I lengthen my be worth the wretched years,
having pasailos away from her remorse and despair? ? To tell the diarist of Trevoux?

That said, I leave to eat. The sun was going to be, when on a sudden heard the two forlorn walkers
some soft moans as wives, but did not know whether they were of taste or feeling: however rose
up all haste to the shock and anxiety that infuses everything Whosoever a country not known. They
gave these two girls naked screaming, which ran very lightly the meadow, and in giving them
up Ximian were two bites on the buttocks. Hastened away Candido to compassion, had learned to shoot
with the Bulgarians, and was so skillful that overthrew a nut of the tree without touching
the leaves, grabbed his gun as Madrid's two cannons shot and killed both Ximian. Blessed be
God, my Cacambo, he said, which I hazard size delivered these two poor creatures, if I committed
a sin in killing an inquisitor and a Jesuit I have met God, getting rid of the death of two girls,
who perhaps are ladies of circumstances, and this adventure can only Granger much out in the
country. Was to say more, but it froze the blood and speech when he saw the two girls hugged lovingly
apes, the bodies flooded into tears, and filled the wind of the most mourners shouted. I did
not expect such kindness, he said to Cacambo And he replied: the Good 've done, Lord. That
vm. died were the lovers of these two girls. iAmantes! ? As is it possible? Cacambo, you're teasing
you: How do you wish that this creates? " Dear sir, "replied Cacambo, vm. are all cops. ? He misses
while in some countries are the Ximian favored by the ladies, if quarterones of man, as I quarteron
in Spanish? Ha, "said Candide," I well remember to have heard Master Pangloss say that once
succeeded each such cases, and these came the egypancs Mezel, fauns, satyrs, who saw many leading
personages of antiquity, but I had everything on Fabulous. You can
now vm. now convinced, he said Cacambo, that are true, and you see
the styles of people has had some education: what I fear is that these
ladies put us in some quagmire