 Ni itself boasted more when Cornelia taught
his Gracchi. But Dona Ines went beyond Cornelia: not content to look at their children, but
is proposed to compete with them and even surpass them in costume, and decided Juanita also the
view.

Juanita was given to all with the best disposition and prodigious
success and made corsets Dona Ines and various costumes.

Confidence born here and some familiarity, as far as is lawful and decent that familiarity is brought
from a leading lady and a commoner working, but at last, Dona Ines
Juanita had to show their underwear to try on corsets and dresses,
what much confidence born and grow?

Juanita knew then slowly and counted her steps, take such skill that Dona Ines he had already
committed his body to clothe him, and also began to discover trust spirit, but only to a point,
because the spirit of Dona Ines, he thought Juanita, perhaps with
malice more than enough, had more shells than a tortoise and never
undressed and completely discovered.

Juanita had a melodious voice and clear and could read very well,
which is quite rare, giving to what I read intonation and meaning.

Soon he managed to show that she possessed Dona Ines ability so helpful, and soon Dona Ines,
who is tired reading something in to take Juanita reader.

Course, Dona Ines, who was very highly mystical in thought and as
much as ascetic, even more speculative than practical, made him read
Juanita lives of saints and devotees and moral books as Mount Calvary,
Thank grace Shouts Hell, mirror of religious, rare cases of vices
and virtues and Ravages of lust.

Dona Ines was aficionadísima to lecture and to convince his listeners
and opponents when lecturing.

If something is hurt by being born a woman, was not to become a preacher or professor.

Juanita knew with both pulse to humor, who would not shut up and accepted everything from of course,
but something challenging theses and speeches to give more opportunity to speak and deployed
his eloquence, which he gave in, recognizing up. Thus be glad and exalt the spirit of Doña Inés,
corroborating the belief she had in virtue and persuasive in his knowledge and talent, into
thinking, well, that following her although at very reasonable distance,
there was no Villalegre all, except perhaps the father Anselmo most
talented person and wiser than Juanita.

The favor of the Dona Ines came to an end to its height.

In the presence of any person, Juanita remained in care with the utmost
respect and giving treatment of his mercy, but in times of expansion,
once heard Juanita atentísimamente, challenge the reasons and ended
up yielding to them, Dona Ines, excited, acquiesced to the send end
when the two soloists were the tutease.

These prodigious achievements of the patient and clear girl lent confidence
course itself, and could give great honor, if she understood that
he needed, but only gave useful material, which was what was most
in need.

Dona Ines thought that there was no better or more splendid pay their affection. Assumed that
the elevation Juanita's Soul, which had been reviling offer money.

A penny more than Dona Ines had given him the wages he usually won, would have seemed a pittance.
It was not Juanita sensitive help like a beggar.

And after this reasoning as wise, as Dona Ines Juanita did not pay
but the stitching, and without paying him not to humiliate, not the
hours spent reading books or the time lost listening to his lectures,
was Dona Ines, by the grace of look what it was, was reading and auditorium
and companion bucket