 

It is well to note now is the perfect match between the person of the priest and his Kidron
name because of the stature, strength and even the color could be compared a big cedar trees
that among men, looking at each other's characters, there are also similarities and relationships.
Tallud is cedar, and also beautiful, noble, wood somewhat brittle, but pleasant and fragrant. For
as was D. Romualdo: Grandon, stocky sunburnt, and at the same time excellent person, of irreproachable
conduct in the church, Hunter, man of the world to the extent it can be a healing, peaceful genius,
persuasive speech, tolerant of human frailties, charitable, merciful, in short, procedures orderly
arrangement and good as well got along with his position well off. Dressed neatness, without boasting
of elegance without limit smoking good cigars, and ate and drank everything claiming the support
of such strong bones and muscles so hard. Big feet and hands correspond to his bulk. His features
coarse and bulky not without beauty, by the proportion and good design, sculptural beauty mask,
miguel-angelesco to decorate a fascia bracket or the center of a poster, missing the mouth garlands
and festoons.

Going into details, that the heirs of Rafael yearned to know, gave them news Kidron tidy the will,
both as Ponte Dona Paca listened with religious care easily assumed. Surrogates were also Mr.
Kidron, D. Sandalio Maturana and Marqués de Guadalerce. In part that the two people there interested,
provided Rafael: a Obdulia and Antonito, sons of his cousin Antonio Zapata, they left the Almoraima
farmhouse, but only in usufruct. The executors will hand over the product of that farm, which
would split into two halves to the heirs of Antonio and Obdulia, the death of them. A Ponte
Dona Francisca and annuity were assigned as many other relatives, income from debt securities, which
constituted a major wealth of the testator.

Hearing these things, Frasquito stroked over the ear is the recessed
strands of her hair, without taking a second of rest.

Dona Francisca, indeed, did not know what was happening: believe dream. In a fit of feverish
delight, stepped into the hall shouting, "Nina, Nina, come and find out! ... Because we are
rich ... I say, we are not poor !...».

Soon came to mind memories of the disappearance of her maid, and returning to the side Kidron
said between sobs: "Forgive me, I do not remember that I lost the companion of my life ...

- I look - repeated the clergyman, and Frasquito, like an echo:

- I look like.

- If he had died - said Dona Francisca - I think the intensity of
my joy would resurrected.

- We'll talk about that woman - said Kidron
-. Before you just found out what you both want