 

It was more than an hour. Mariano had cut the conversation several times, as if to say something
serious, and hesitated, devoid of value. Finally decided.

- Gabriel spends time and we still much to do and to talk.

They are little more than eleven.

There are still hours to do the thing well.

- What do you mean? - Luna asked with surprise.

- Few words to the point. It is you to be rich and be us, we want to leave of this misery .... Already
noticed long ago that we fled from you, that the pleasure of hearing you preferred to talk
to us. Is that you are a wise, but not worth a penny for things in life. You learn, but not out of poverty
... We have spent months thinking the need to strike lucky. These revolutions that we speak are
far away. The see our grandchildren, and perhaps not even to see. It is good that the wise think
of the future, but the gross and we only see the present. We spent the time flowing atrocities:
Don Sebastian kidnap and ransom demand of one million, enter the palace one night, and I do
not know what else ...! All nonsense designed for your nephew. But this morning, at home, lamenting
the misery, we have seen the salvation soon. You as the only guardian of the cathedral, the Virgin
in the altar with the jewels that the rest of the year stored in the Treasury, and me with the
keys in my possession .... The easiest job in the world. Clean the Virgin, we set the road to
Madrid and arrived at dawn, the Tato know there a lot people from
going to the capeas: we hid some time, and then you, you know the
world will guide us.

We will go to America, sell the stones, and be rich. Alza, Gabriel!

Let to strip the idol, as you say.

- Following is what I propose to theft! - Luna exclaimed in alarm.

- A robbery? - Said the sexton -. Call it so if you like: what?, Are you scared of that ...? More
we have stolen from us, we were born with the right to a bit of world and more turns that we did
not find a free site .... Besides, who does a disservice to this?

You're welcome serve this jewelry piece of wood covering it. Or eat, or feel cold in winter
and we are miserable.

You yourself have said, Gabriel, contemplating our poverty. Our children are starving on the knees
of their mothers, while the idols are covered wealth ... Come on, Gabriel, do not waste time!

-
Come on, man! "- Said the Tato -. A little courage. Convince yourself that the ignorant know
spinning things when it happens.

Gabriel did not listen. The surprise made him fall into withdrawal. Media, scared, the big mistake,
saw a huge gap opened between him and those who believed his disciples.
He remembered the words of his brother. Ah, good sense of the simple!
He, with all readings, had not foreseen the danger of teaching the
ignorant in a few months what requiring a lifetime of reflection and
study. The same thing was little what happens in people agitated for
revolution. The noblest ideas are corrupted when passing through the
sieve of vulgarity, the generous aspirations were poisoned with sediments
of misery