 

Three hours did rise more sour, and another step of the first ridge along it. Of these four
hours, the second and third test was because there was in them all evil that abounds in the forest
during the snow gauge it: air-numbing, vortices which drown, disoriented and stray mists, trails
cleared, soil traitors franked roads with shovels or guessed by the most expert, unexpected falls,
funny many risks and some of them fatal, often scares and incessant toil ... The time that lasted
the passage of the hollow between the first and the second hill was more bearable. Al end of
this basin, ie the beginning of the second hill is the Pedregalón with open mouth a short distance
from the ground and faced to the path that led the expedition. Be discerned very soon the stain
on the stony gray-white background and foams Snow, ten minutes later drew perfectly the mouth of
the cave, and have a little later, something still was not entirely within their jaws open and
disjointed; fifty paces more, and even the least subtle of view met in what seemed crust of
that huge throat and sniffing dogs and the caravan, to pepazo in body and soul. There was a piece of
raw as well as a Japanese idol nestled in his niche, with arms akimbo, the very red cheeks, mouth
from ear to ear and eyes smiling, looking to reach their neighbors, so calm and carefree as
if he had said him to come to that place and time they arrived. For this attitude irrational, was
the greeting that he addressed the newcomers, who could no longer with snowshoeing or with their
own bodies: a storm of insults and nicknames, and even barking dogs.

- Why do not you tiempu golvistes to animal, but animal? - He asked one.

Pepazo To which he replied instantly:

- Because I had empeñau in
tackling the mares, and as pa columbralas nievi served me well dimpués
night fell ... pull, pull, pull, Eyas parriba behind, turns here and
saves acuyá ...

- And where are these beasts to this? - Asked the
priest.

- Sábelu God - pepazo saddened answered the question -.

Al ayegar me to this gem, tresponierum Cumbria Eyas the other as
if the demontris yevaran ... and a galgu echil ... Squeezed blizzard,
thickening the nievi had to walk to Tablanca Muchu, had about this
Cuevona, and here I am so guapamenti mayor.

- And you've been able
to sleep? - I questioned the doctor.

- As he had no other thing ...--
JACER admired mozallón answered the question.

- But remember a damn
thing - insisted Neluco - the fright you gave to your family and all
the people ...

He shrugged his shoulders questioned, as it then fell
for the first time.

The notice, said Don Sabas decomposing a bit:

- And if we had all
been so kestrels like you, what would become of you, if not today,
tomorrow, when you hunger and cold rush?

Another response shrug, as if no such signal had crossed the core
idea of ??pepazo.

Finally, there was this man into channel ... not much time to lose so they went outsiders in
the Cuevona, work very easy, because it had already reached the half
a yard of snow mouth, rested and ate all by the voracity of pepazo
line, without which provisions have not attained to himself, and as
the sky was blackened bad part, after a little rest they all left
the cave ready against the march, and undertook a good walk down the
hill.

At first everything went well, and until you buzz abounded, hints and ironies untapped to pepazo,
who was not aware of most of them by natural clumsiness of his his
head.

" Whistle Salces atrocities are unleashed against him, and, above all, against Toper, who opened the
door as it closed at a man as smart as one that he (Chorcos) knew
of "equal than with himself, "and that while nothing was said for
certain languages, was the one who planted the jito in the heart of
Tanasi.

This, said between somersaults, hand wringing and laughter, before of all those people, and without
any respect for the authority of the parish priest, left baffled
and fretful to pepazo, Chisco and color of snow, not cold, but righteous
indignation Chorcos that put in serious danger of rolling down a slope
"hung" looming ten rods.

But he spent the brawl, and spent every moment some gusts of north wind that whipped the faces clusters
(such seemed) of dry snow carried.