 From there we went to a village of Christians I had to
dens of thieves. It was his captain Juan Reinville, who was then absent, certainly for our good,
in the town of San Vicente, with other Christians to fulfill certain adjustments had been made. These
Indians, (with which Christians live in two villages 800) are sugetos the king of Portugal, but
below the power of Juan de Reinville, which was very obeyed because India had been in 40 years as governor,
made war, and pacified the province and judged that he deserved no better than the government.
And because he was not given long, armed wars and collected in a 5.000 day Indian warriors,
and the King of Portugal could not collect 2.000. Such was his authority and power in these provinces!
When we arrived, was at home of his child, who treated us with much entertainment, and yet a
cure for his people rather than the Indians, and because we all came out well, we were very glad,
giving thanks to God us safely out of that town.

CHAPTER LIII.

Author comes out of San Vicente, sailing to Spain, and provides second
headwinds port once the Holy Spirit.

From there we went to the little village of San Vicente, which is 20 miles from the background. Day
July 13, 1553 at the port are a Portuguese ship laden with sugar
from Brazil and cotton, by Peter Rosel, [55] Erasmo schitz factor
of Antwerp, who resided in San Vicente, and sent it to John Hulsen,
resident of Lisbon, who also was a factor.

He received with love and honor Rosel, requested that I received at the ship, begging the sailors
who treat me as his preferred which they did faithfully.

Eleven days we stopped in San Vicente, where we provide everything you need for navigation. There
from the Assumption to San Vicente in Brazil, 376 miles, which we came in six months.

We left San Vicente, San Juan Bautista Day, 1553, and at fourteen
days at sea, agitated of continuous storms and contrary winds, broken
tree ship, knowing where we were, enter the port of the Holy Spirit
in Brazil, inhabited by Christians, who with their children and wives
till sugar.

There are cotton, large and many clubs from Brazil and other merchandise.

In this sea, especially among Sancti Spirits and San Vicente, and most of all, there are large
whales [56] and fish, as big as them, often do great harm, because when sailors go on a ship's
skiffs to another, usually come as a herd of whales to fight one another, and overturn the
navichuelos, killing people. They are always throwing water, and increasingly so, on average
French Cuba, because they put their heads under water and again to
remove it right away, throwing it, as has been said.

Which had not seen this ever, would think that navigating a lot of
rocks.

CHAPTER LIV.

The author leaves the port of the Holy Spirit and comes to the Third
and the Azores, sailing to Spain and thence to Flanders.

Take the earth again by storm.

Four months we were at sea, after we left the Holy Spirit, continued sailing without seeing land
until the Third Island, where we spent two days, and provide us bread, meat, water and other
necessary things fresh. Obey the king of Portugal.

In fourteen days of sailing we arrived at Lisbon, September 3, 1552, and having been it another
fourteen days, and killed two of the Indians that I had, I went to Seville, which 42 miles far
from Lisbon, and arrived in six days. After sailed by sea to San Lucar in two days: there was
one night, and went overland in a day at the port of Santa Maria,
and another day I went to Cadiz, on the ground.

I found in the bay 25 large Dutch hookers, back to his province: a greater and more beautiful,
new and only once had sailed to Spain from Antwerp. Aconsejábanme the merchants that I embark
on it, and adjusted to Henry Schertz, your employer, my journey: for which warned me that afternoon,
being in agreement with him that I be warned when leaving.

I got into the ship carrying wine, bread and the like, and some parrots who brought from the Indies.

That
night he drank the pattern more than you should, and my goodness he forgot me and left me the inn
is two hours before dawn, the pilot ordered that it should be sailed. Looking very tomorrow
where the ship was, and who had a league of land section, I was obliged take the eye to another,
and deal with another patron, whom he gave the same as the first.

Out of these twenty-four ships port, we were happy to wind three days, then rose a storm so
terrible that we could not continue the journey. Wait eight days fastest time but the more we
stopped, the storm raged, so that no pudiéndonos keep at sea, we turned down the same road
at the port, and Enrique Schertz, (which was the ship that had put my clothes and had been
forgotten), came last. A league Cadiz, and the dark night, the lantern became captain of the
navy, so that others pilots and continued to see her. We arrived at Cadiz, and anchored ships,
remove the lamp, and became the earth, with good advice, a fixture beside a mill, a bullet
shot Cádiz. But it was of great harm to Henry, Schertz, who thought he was bluffing, and directed
his ship right into the fire, and gave great impetus in the rocks
that were under water: so that took a thousand pieces, and sank with
all people and goods, dying quarter of an hour 22 people, leaving
alive only the captain and the pilot, who left clinging the largest
tree, also sank six baskets of gold and silver were to give the Emperor,
and a lot of merchandise, causing the wreck Estrema poverty to many.

I thanked Almighty God, that his mercy did not allow me to embark
on that ship.

CHAPTER LV.

The author again sailing from Cadiz to Antwerp.

The day of San Andres, two after this misfortune, we made sail to Antwerp: suffering so great
a storm, the sailors swore that he had twenty years, or that all the time sailing, no storm had been
more cruel or horrible tornadoes.

We arrived Wight, England port, without trees, wheels, or anything else that could serve in
navigation, so if the journey had lasted a few days more, none of the 24 ships have been saved.
But God saved us from this danger almost obvious, because about same place, the first day of the
year 1554, eight ships were wrecked, plunging miserably all people,
not save anyone, and the goods and other precious things: it happened
This calamitous shipwreck, between France and England.

Detuvímonos four days in Wight, composing our ships.

The best we could, we made sail for the Brabant, and reached Armuyden, city of Zeeland, where
there are a multitude of ships: this city is far Wight 47 leagues. From there we sailed 24
leagues to Antwerp, where we arrived safe and free to January 25, 1554.

EPILOGUE.

So, after twenty years, by a singular providence of Almighty God,
I got there from which it came, but in many, many dangers of life
and body I had and tried, few hunger and misery, care, work and anxieties,
to walk in the provinces Indians, enough may be understood this historic
declaration.

But give to God Eternal and Omnipotent many thanks I can conceive
in your mind, because I returned safely to the places, which I left
twenty years earlier.

Be glory and honor to himself, forever ever.

Amen.

CONTENTS OF THE MATERIALS CONTAINED IN VIAG

OF

Ulder Schmidel AL
RIO DE LA PLATA.

The names in italics are those which, having been adulterated by
the author, have become unintelligible.

  A

  Girls and stingless
  bees -
  52.
  
  Acaraiba. Village of Carias Froemidiere leagues at 20 - 40.

  
  Acar, Indians. Her dress, food and the
  reason for its
  name - 31. Your
  Province - 30. Dan guides to Hernando de Rivera - ibid.

Agac,
  Indians stubborn warriors on land and sea
  traces and ornaments - 38. Oyola
  overcome by loss of five Spanish
  - 35.

Those of the people killed
  by Carias others are forgiven - ibid.
  Sent to Spain, Cabeza de Vaca, rebel - 38.
  

Water. Missing in Peyonas,
  fertile land being - 45.

The Sivisicosis have war with the neighbors about it - 46.

Which show the whales - 58.

  Agustin del Campo, Nuflo is going to Lima Chaves - 50.

  
  German and Flemish. 80 with D. embark Pedro de Mendoza
  - 3.
  
  Carob - 19. They came of them Indians - 15.
  
  Cotton. In the town of the Holy Spirit of Brazil - 58.

Spin and the Indian
  tegen - 43.
  

Alonso de Cabrera. Get to Buenos
  Aires with relief goes to the Timbús, and dispatches
  notice to Spain according
  to Oyola - 24. Surge in Santa Catalina
  and 200 with a Spanish caravel, and two
  months go to Buenos
  Aires - ibid. Getting rid of a storm by
  the knowledge
  of its pilot,
  and arrived
  in Buenos Aires 30 days sooner than those
  who came with him
  - 26. Turns to
  others to Cabeza de Vaca
  - 37.
  
  Alonso Riquelme marries the daughter
  of Irala, and why?
  - 53.
  
  Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, Treasurer of the Navy
  that led Panfilo de Narvaez to Florida
  - 36. Advance Rio
  de la Plata, Santa Catalina comes to how people
  and what year? - 26. Send to
  seek Bastimento two caravels,
  and lost, saving his people
  and takes eight to go and get
  in the Assumption, ground - 26. Taking possession, and adjusted
  Irala is prevented to discover, and send
  people ahead - 27. Aracaré ago
  the chief process, and sends him hanged, with
  the agreement
  of royal officials
  and others - 27. Send to Irala
  with 2.000 Carios against Tabaré - 28.
  And his good fortune makes him embark,
  and arrives at Mount San
  Fernando, he fled Payaguá, and arrives
  at the Sococies - 29. Reports of other Indians and not
  finding them in 18
  days turns
  to the Kings - ibid. Send to
  Francisco de Rivera with
  10 Spanish to recognize and try to discovery,
  and prevent the water - ibid. Send
  to Hernando de Rivera
  to Xarayes - 30. And again, he turns, and
  heaves its people
  - 35. Forced him to be satisfied, having failed to your computer
  - ibid. Solve the journey
  itself and do not want to follow the soldiers
  - 36. Spanish prohibits the Indians
  had carried, and hateful, for
  this and Other reasons wicked - ibid. Ill
  at the Kings - 37. Sent to kill the Sococies to the
  island, and approves its destruction
  - ibid. Back to the Assumption,
  and sick, and why not leave
  the house in 15 days? - ibid.

Préndenle royal officials to send to Spain - ibid. Repelled
  by loyal and ignore them
  rebels - 38. Treat the author
  wickedly - 37.

What made quickly marred by envy and
  hatred - 29.

Is sent to
  Spain, riots among soldiers, and Rise of the cavities - 37.

Acquitted
  by the Council will punish is not strange false witness - ibid.

  
  Amazon.

Hernando de Rivera is news of them, and party to seek, and how they
  live and
  preserved and treasures
  of their land - 32.
  

Antwerp.
  It leaves the author - 3. He returns
  after 20 years - 61.
  
  Anmuyden, City of Zeeland. It has many bagels - 60.

  
  Ducks, in Mapais -
  43.
  
  Antas animals such as donkeys, and
  skin and scalp
  - 19.

  Antonio Grovenor. You
  will discover Indian order of Cabeza
  de Vaca, and is maize in
  the Samococis, and into the interior, and arrives at the Cambal - 27.

  
  Aracaré, cacique.

Tabaré brother
  - 28. Processed by Cabeza de Vaca, makes it hang - 27.
  And the land rises
  to avenge - ibid.
  
  Antonio de Mendoza.
  Governor is
  in Corpus Christi - 22.

And in what
  order - ibid. Engáñale an Indian and Spanish
  lost 50 - 23. Sítianle Indians and falling into a trap
  of them is dead and people are going to Buenos Aires - ibid.

  

D. Navy Pedro de Mendoza. Sale of San
  Lucar day 1. St September, 1534 - 3. Turns
  itself to join the Canaries - 4.

Get to Rio de Janeiro - 5. And
  the Rio de la Plata
  - 6.
  
  Rice on the island of
  Santa Catalina - 22.
  In Carcokies - 49.

  Assumption, city. As far from the island of Santa Catalina
  - 26. And in Peru - 50. His neighbors are divided
  into factions: head inmate cow Indian rebel - 36. Besieged
  by Irala, delivered, fleeing Abreu - 53.
  
  Assumption,
  people. Llamosa and Lambaré
  by Oyola -
  17. He left 100 men to enter the Payaguá,
  and in what order - 18.
  
  Attune, Sliding called to chiggers - 50.
  
  Aves. Many in an uninhabited
  island, that sticks to kill soldiers
  - 5. Many in the Mapais - 43.

Ostriches
  in the cavities
  - 12. In Zemais - 14. In Xarayes - 31. In
  Peyonas
  - 45. In Mapais - ibid. In Barcones - 46. In Carcokies
  - 49.
  
  Author. Sale of Antwerp, Cadiz is about to embark
  for the Rio de la Plata - 3. Little hits
  at distances of land - 4. Goes against the Querandís with D.
  Pedro
  de Mendoza - 7. Appointed
  with six others confidence to go to Santa
  Catherine Gonzalo de Mendoza - 24. Saved, returning
  from a storm on a stick
  comes to eating roots and San
  Gabriel - 25. Huanacos
  horse came to more than 40 leagues about
  being sick - 43. Take
  19 Indians in the defeat
  of the Mbayas - 43. Irala Ponele sentry in a well, and
  made many friends - 47. Indian slaves had 59 - 52. He is wrong in the names
  and altered; so it
  is not easy to understand - 14
  56. Was misinformed about the
  things of government - 26. He mocks those
  who have the alligators, or alligators - 31. What won the day Xarayes -
  35. Lies far from Cabeza de Vaca - 37. If you lost
  sight of Ursa Major on the islands of Cape Verde, or was wrong? -
  36. Dropsy
  gives you the Assumption - 38. Write her brother back to Germany
  - 54. Irala gives you license and
  says goodbye to his
  friends and with
  20 Carios arrive in canoes
  to suberic Sabaya - 54. Browse the
  Parana enters the Tupi, and fear
  he had of the beasts in the
  deserts - 55. Defiéndese
  six Spanish and Indians four days against Sliding,
  ambushed and fled, remaining
  root and honey and arrives
  at the Biesayes - 56. Sick with
  the others in Scheverveba,
  and arrives
  at a village where a child
  entertains Juan
  de Reinville - 57. Get to San Vicente
  and Juan Rosel will get well, and recommends to the sailors of a
ship that went to Lisbon - 58.

Embarks, and storm returns to port the Holy Spirit
  - ibid.

Get to Lisbon in four months and
  goes to San Lucar, and to Cadiz - 59.

Advises the King in Seville land of the Rio de la Plata, and gives
them letters Irala - 54.

Adjusts its
  voyage to Flanders, shipped clothing, and the pattern
  gets drunk and
  does not lead - 59. Sets with another patron, and
  re-embarks Cadiz to storm - ibid.

Have another very large and arrives defeated the ships, Wight - 60.

Give thanks
  to God coming to Antwerp, for
  having escaped so many risks - 61.

  Cars possession of the government of Cabeza de Vaca, stolen by royal
officials - 26.

  
  Sugar. Abundant
  in the Canary Islands - 4.

Lábranla
  in the port of the Holy Spirit
  of Brazil - 57.
  

B
  

Whale - 5.
  Their abundance between San Vicente and Sancti Spirits, in Brazil
and how to fight and overturn the smaller ships? - 58.

One of 35
  steps
  was taken in
  Cádiz - 3.

  Irala rafts happened to go to the handsome - 49.
  
  Barcones, Indians.

Irala want to escape, and detention provisions, and give news of
the land - 46.

  

Baroti, people - 54.
  
  Bartenes, Indians. Lay siege to Buenos Aires, with others and burned
- 9.

Sweet potatoes roots that taste like apples, in cavities - 16.
In Sococies - 30.

Bered, people. Bastimento it takes the author -
54.

Biesayes, Indians. The author comes to them and provided food
and other things - 56.

Bogemberg, mountain in Germany similar to
that of San Fernando - 19.

Ball, Indians who had a string tied to
a pole, to hunt and shoot down the horses - 8. As the carry and use
- 38.

Drunkenness of Sliding. Last days and nights - 55.

Brazil
stick. Abounds in the Holy Spirit - 58.

Huanacos shields of hides.
Do Spanish, and for what? - 42. In imitation of the Indians who use
Carcokies - 49