 If you are looking to an Andalusian Seville for good, with refinement and courtesy, although it
belongs the vulgar, found him friendly, expansive, very attentive and obliging. But watch out
for walk by crook! Then, if a bullfighter, or bully or farmer, horseman or something like that,
I check for the moment a shower of expletives in to pound and he took out the knife or rolling up
fists to decide the question by way of enforcement. But if instead of one of those geniuses Atrabiliarios
occurs with a boastful type Andalusian (which abounds so much), the altercation have different
proportions: it is a struggle of words mountains where the alien who does not know While the country
may be completely mystified. On hearing the Andalusian throwing bravado, you would believe able to
swallow the Sierra-Nevada and unhinge the world with a kick. Is formalized, twitches, shouts, threatens,
roars like a cannon and looks like a fury .... Le cojeis the word, showing that not afraid, and
then the lamb is lion, makes you a thousand blandishments, laughs, makes him all joke ("binge")
and invites you to grab a drink with the utmost cordiality.

The Andalusian, and perhaps more than all the Seville, is frank and jocular, yet lightweight helmets:
a bad word, a quizzical look, a gesture is enough to cause doubt a complaint noisy. Fortunately,
though often the business is arranged with knives or at least to the more slaps and punches,
usually gruff and blustering storm ends a reconciliation at the pub, sworn on the bottle in
a puff of smoke, snuff, maybe the sound of the guitar. HOWEVER, there is a question not ever fix
(at least in the world of bullfighters, and manolas majos) but by ways in fact or by giving up absolute:
it is the matter of love, which often is only a matter of vanity or dot. The Seville of that
class does not support even a glance at his girl upstart addressed or your pretty girl, as
they call them. If a husband is sometimes tolerant and more human, as a lover leads to the
ferocity of jealousy or ridicule. This proves that the vanity goes a long, and very little true
love in the energy with which to defend its possession or monopoly. We look upon his "girl" or
pass by the bottom of the window once and spear, to the second makes you frown sullen; to the
third I said with anger and stress provoking:

"- Eh, mister! (Or Camarda) who encounters me bujca me! If you peel ujté me eye to EJTA girl
another sees, and know that it could occur to chicoteo, ú chicotéamo
us!

That if they want sarba er Burt er ujté road and take to another party with music. "

And strength is giving up the company, failing which the knife into action to support with their
arguments, the intimation of Andalusian jealous.

The inclination to gallantry (and his many consequences) is very general in Seville. The 'Gate'
or window on that makes a very important and traditional. If you walk down the streets you
after six o'clock in the afternoon, wherever you will see scenes that will give idea of ??comedy
da hilt. At the foot of many low and narrow windows is tipping some gallant head with an air of
mystery, leaning on one arm resting on the wall, and wrapped in his cloak, if gender is not nice
(but not spend jacket), as seen in the a face flattering shadow looming on the bottom of the
grate. What do these two figures? - Are stripping the kettle. I had often heard this phrase in
Colombia, with a very different meaning. There is called stripping
the kettle to be idle, wasting time when it is bound to a work or
task - as the pawn suspending work for bed or get to chat free trade