 Where is Leo?

- Leon, here it is - he uttered a loud voice behind.

      Leon himself and walked to the middle
      of the room and began to parody, with expression and mimicry of strolling
players, a well-known zarzuela:

I am the one count of Agreda called
in battle that proved his worth countless.

- Hey, baby - Relief said
tugging at the skirts of his coat - I have have to adjust an account.

-
You too - he exclaimed with horror hit -.

Heavens! Where I will get that I submit accounts?

And got carried away, feigning shock at the corner for his beloved,
who asked quietly

- Say, babieca, why have not told me it was under
Part?

Do not you know that we policy a few days ago?

- Bah! Bah! - Cried loudly and away -.

As you may have a few glasses of sherry in the body, they will hear the kisses that you perceive,
from the street.

"Socorro was shortened biting her lip. He feared that Amparo had noticed anything. Y Indeed,
the mistress of Salabert had cast a suspicious glare which spoke, and frowned: "Go, go! A
good portion went to recaditos! As picasen a little was able to grab
by the hair to that Panfila and beat against the wall!

"

The Relief was a blonde lymphatic pearly complexion and light eyes, a little romance and a
lot susceptible. They said a commander's daughter and grabbed the right to despise their fellow born
from within the populace.

It was more educated than them because I read all the brochures that
came to hand: he took care not to say bad words, not phrases not often
used Flemish.

I had some older than the Amparo and Nati.

- At the table, the table - said Alcántara -. These German operas excite me hungry as a wolf.

Everyone
got up from his seat and approached the table while he rang the bell
Castro to alert the waiter.

The Count of Agreda stopped them with a gesture.

- Gentlemen, here are two princesses who have fought for diplomatic
issues that we do not incumbent.

Do you think that will give a kiss before we sit down?

- To give it: to give it - cried the three men and Nati, looking at the Relief and Protection.

This
was faced angry with Leon.

- Ja, ja! ... Girl, do not start now to release because it's going to hurt us dinner.

The Relief was made irrelevant by inspecting the table.

- That kiss - again said the choir.

- Listen, precious, do we have brought to laugh at us or give us for
dinner? - Said Amparo increasingly irritated.

Castro tried to calm her.

- There is no reason to be angry, Amparo. Leon, as I and everyone else, we would like that we sit down
to dinner we were good friends.

If there is some resentment must be remembered, especially if, as
hypothesized, it was not for anything serious.

- That kiss! - Cried
harder diners.

There was no choice. , And Alcantara Castro seized the Amparo, Ramon
and the count of Relief and were approaching almost by force, but
not both protests, especially Amparo, who defended vigorously.

After ended by laughing.
- But this is stupid! What fly has stung you?

And he came to decision
to Socorro, gave him a resounding kiss on the cheek.

- Besémonos,
daughter, otherwise I fear that these guys nice to give them a nervous
breakdown.

Relief paid the kiss with another more timid, reserved
and cautious manifest.

- Well, now let me warm up a bit, I'm numb
- said sitting beside the fireplace so close that, miraculously, it
burned.

It is roasted in front and behind, in such a way that, when
Raphael was to take the seat, burned.

- What an atrocity! Look, guys,
how he left the chair Amparo.

All laid hands on her and admired.

-
How will the woman's body! Let's see - said Castro toward her.

-
Hey, boy, stop! I'm not look at me and touches me .... Well, if you
blow the back - added generously