 The round cheeks and a dimple in the middle of the beard, formed a joint beautiful, which
only needed to be perfect to be less mischievous expression, if not evil.

Body was rather thin than thick, for low grown old before, and torso, seen from the back, neck and
narrow in width to the shoulders, was delightful harmony, humble even under clothes, with the
narrow, flexible figure, there is no means of comparing but with a glass base. The complexion
could pass for healthy living embodiment, speaking in the sense that the artists take this
word, although little is fixed Care is warned in the color of the face, while remaining blood was
too ocher in their composition, and it was not transparent nor free. What race, therefore belonged
to the girl? Hard to say. However, a knowing eye could not hide his lips Red had a dark edge or
fillet, and the lighting of the face ended in a twilight toward the hairline. His blood was not
pure and it could ensure that back in the third or fourth generation was mixed with the Ethiopian.

But
anyway, such was its beauty pilgrim, joy and vivacity, that were
of a kind of charm, leaving the mind to wander but to admire and pass
by faults or the leftovers of their children.

Had never seen her sad, never angry, never fight with anyone, nor could be right where you lived or
what remained. What was, then a girl so pretty, hitting the streets day and night, like a hungry
dog ??without owner? Had not she who by their nature do not govern vagabond?

Meanwhile, the girl grew bold and fresh, without regard for research and gossip that was the object,
and without realizing that street life, which she thought very natural,
suspicion and fear, if not compassion to some old, that their thanks
sources and the neglect and freedom with which he lived, fed hopes
of bastard lineage in youths hearts that beat at her through the square
of Christ, when the little run and the subtlety of the fox stealing
a muffin or rinds to the black part of night there are set to fry,
or carelessly stuck his hand in small crates Raisin grocery stores
in the street corners, or when he picked up the banana ripe mango
or guava fruit board, or twist her blind dog in the barrel of the
corner, or you headed for San Juan de Dios, if I went to Santa Clara:
[5] that all these pranks were worthy of celebration in a girl of
her age and look.
