 I think this is pure illusion, and the first thing is that neither seat over to the
persons or things, the papers do not say all, nor much, nor even that who know the writers,
even in the freest country.

§ II.

The newspapers say it all about people.

We are witnessing at every step that proponents of what is called a salience, the intemperate praise
to praise, while his opponents he was given to the dictates hands full ignorant, stupid, inhuman,
bloodthirsty, tigre, traitor, monster, and other niceties for this style. The knowledge, talent,
honesty, kindness, generosity and other qualities ascribed to the hero the writers of his devotion,
are in fact somewhat faded with fulfillment of its enemies, but finally, what do you find
in this racket clean? What think abroad to be decided by one end, or to adopt a middle way referee
referee? The result is groping, and be clarified or to suspend trial or to fall into gross errors.
The public career of the man in question is not always indicated
by well-characterized events, and also what is in them good or bad,
not always is it clear whether attributed to him or to his subordinates.

The

funny thing is that sometimes such strife between the public opinion in certain circles, and
maybe in the whole country, is fixed on the character, so that does not appear but lies by
mutual agreement. In fact, talking with men who are without news, maybe the same as they have
declared war over raw, "what is talent, you will hear, nobody denies, knows a lot and has
no bad intentions, but what would you have ?.... gotten in That, and oust need, I'm the first
to respect as a private person, and hopefully we had listened to us, we would have done much,
and would have played a role brilliant. "You see that one so honest, so intelligent, active and
energetic, to say of certain newspapers, he and only he can remove the country from the brink?
Listen to those who know him closely, and perhaps his most ardent supporters. "That is an unhappy
already know, but at last is the man we need, and someone we have to enforce. He is accused
of handling unclean, that who is ignorant? in bank A has made such funds, and now is going
to do the same in the bank B. In fact stealing a manner too shocking, but see V., and how common
this is ...., and also, when we accuse our opponents, not it is necessary that one would leave the horns
of the bull. Do not know V. the history of this man? as I'll tell V. his life and miracles
... "And I relate his adventures, ups and low, and its evil or misery, or nonsense, and since
then you suffer no illusions, and you judge forward with confidence and success.

These proportions do not usually enjoy them foreigners or nationals
who satisfied with the reading of newspapers, and so believe that
the comparison of those opposite views are clear about the truth,
form the most wrong concepts men and things.

The fear of being denounced, of alienating some people, the respect due to privacy, decorum itself,
and other similar reasons, often to prevent newspapers descending
to certain details, and refer anécdoctas that portray the character
alive who attack, it sometimes happens that the same exaggeration
of the charges, intemperance of invective, and the cruelty of the
satire, or do not do much damage with it could do with the simple
and quiet exhibition of some particular facts.

The writers usually distinguish between the private man and public figure, ie very good in most
cases, because otherwise the controversial journalistic luck and too bitter and broken, soon
became a quagmire where it stirred intolerable filth, but this does not mean that the private
life of a man not used very either to speculate on their behavior
in public places.
