 That great man paralyzed always filled him with fear, even
tried to hide it because it had commanded her godmother.

- Lord's blessing - he said dully.

The high and mighty Grandee ignored. Fixed on the cards in his hand, wrapped Talma in gray
with red cross on his chest, was growing by the eyes troubled times of poor Josephine. Would
not understand that nothing in the world's largest, most impressive and worthy of respect that the
noble lord. In this opinion involved D. Pedro.

So had long since resolved confound all things around him in a chaotic mass, in which only two or
three appeared with a single character.

The girl waited with his arms crossed about a quarter of an hour.

Finally Mr. Quinones, after playing a fortune entry, deigned to stick in her a stern look that became
pale. He reached his aristocratic hand gesture worthy of his namesake
Peter the Great Russia and Josephine fell on her trembling lips and
left.

I was not quite as exalted the man with his wife so lovingly nourishing
a foundling, but consented because it flattered his vanity.

Amalia had told him, knowing where it hurt:

- Would raise it to anyone in domestic Lancia. We must do things otherwise.

D. Peter could not help but feel the weight of this undeniable truth.

Josefina crossed the room to go to bed.

To skim to Fernanda, who was sitting and alone, it's caught on the
fly by a little arm and pulled.

All the joy, all the tenderness at that time overflowed his heart, desbordose with violence on the
creature, who covered it with kisses.

Not agreed to any of his rival, who guessed expired.

Only thought that it was his daughter, his blood, the same image.

And kissed with rapture those blue eyes deep, melancholic, that pearly complexion, those golden
curls that circles his face as a halo of light.

- Oh, what beautiful hair!

What a beautiful thing, my God!

And pressed his lips against it and even dipped his face in his threads
with such delight and tenderness that was about to mourn.

At that moment a loud voice, imperious, rang in his ears.

- Have not you gone to bed, urchin!

And looking up saw Amalia, his face pale, his lips tight, she took
the girl violently by the arm giving it a strong shake and crawled
to the door.

XI

Amalia's anger.

The next morning, Paula, by order of her mistress, took the girl to her room iron, her in a
high chair and asked the maid scissors, stitching at the foot of the balcony.

- What are you doing? - Asked Josephine.

- Cut your hair.

- Why? ... I do not want to cut my hair.

And they came down firmly in the saddle. Paula turned to lift her.

- Hold on, now - he said sternly.

- I do not want! ... I do not want! - Said with a graceful resolution.

- The truth is that pity so beautiful a hair cut - said one of the
maids, who was ironing.

- What is it, daughter?

The boss, boss.

And taking one of the beautiful curls of her hair, spread it a snip.

- Let me go, Paula! - Cried the girl .-- I'll tell godmother!

- Yes,
sweetheart?

Are you going to tell really godmother? ... Well, I'll tell when we finish.

And pay more attention to their protests, dropping the buzz words, continued unperturbed task. But
she got back, irritated, angry.

Paula then asked for help to Concha, seamstress, and while it was subject to the chair, it was
stripping the one by one from all loops. Managed as best he could after the remaining hair.

-
What a pity - she cried the laundress.

- Child, so not bad either
- said Paula neatly combed.

Now appeared the lady in the box on the door.

- Godmother! See, godmother! ... Look, Paula and Concha me cut their hair.

Amalia advanced a few steps across the room and avoiding the gaze
of the girl stared severe in his head, and said imperiously, and cold:

-
Not a good thing.

You cut the monkfish.

And he walked away with the furrowed brow. Josefina, stunned, his eyes followed her. I had never
seen in the face of his godmother so coldly and harshly. Was shocked, thinking and left already without
making the slightest movement, Paula fulfill the mandate.

It soon became the head blond peeled like a peach.

The home erupted into laughter.

- Child of my soul that you have
retefeísima! - Exclaimed Maria ironing accent grief, but could not
help laughing.

- Do not say that woman - bitter dejillo Concha said
.-- If you are beautiful!

She was twenty-five years or more, extremely small, almost as small as Josephine hollow-eyed and
surly, whom all feared servants of the house.

Paula laughed too and going through his hands from the head of the creature.

- When you need a pitchers for oil, you know where you have to find - continued Concha.

Dissipated pity, guessing that the little girl had fallen into disgrace, the maids were delivered
joy changing the joke without grace, but that made them laugh madly. Josephine had remained still,
silent, with bowed head. Teasing finally managed to make its effect. Two tears came dripping
from her long lashes. Concha was annoyed:

- Do you cry for the little hair? .. Too bad whipping! ... Not your fault, but that you being raised
as a princess as much as us ... I say, unless we - added by low, - at last we have parents.

- Come on, Concha, leave!

... Never mind, Monin, soon will have hair again - said Mary with maternal stress.

The girl, shocked by the applause, began to sob and left the room.

When evening came in the room, that way, the count could not repress a gesture of anger and
nailed a questioning look on Amalia.

It said that gesture and that look with a provocative smile. And he said aloud as she was told
to cut hair because he had noticed that the girl began to boast.

- Sure! Both the flatter you that it has been unbearable!

The count, irritated, immediately tried once to approach the conversation
Fernanda and knotted the previous night.

They were talkative, affectionate. Fernanda had his life details Paris. Luis was singularly
expansive, not hiding the joy of his heart, speaking emotionally
from the angry eyes of Amalia perched on him.

In a break Fernanda raised smiling eyes towards his ex-boyfriend and asked, not without blushing a
little:

- Do not know why they've cut the girl's hair?

The count looked blank.

- Yesterday I praised him a lot and let me kiss him.

It was the first time that Fernanda was given cognizance of his secret.

Experienced strong shock. Her cheeks reddened. Those of her too. In
long time no words found to say.

In the following days, the count began to walk down the street repeated
Altavilla and to spend long periods in the cafe of Maranhao.

The company was moved to laciense ground up to size event. Since then more than three hundred
pairs of eyes will spied on and on. He stopped going every day at home and attended Quiñones
once in a while the meager gathering of the de Mere, as Lancia was saying, but actually no longer
in the world had more than one. Carmelita had died at least three years. No Nuncia remained
but the youngest, and that almost completely paralyzed. Chair to bed from bed to chair, was all
that was with work. Private was also morally of movement, lack of protective impulse that he
lent her his sister. Since it lowered the tomb, and who had no subject. This, far from cheerful,
plunged in a melancholy deep. As he passed suddenly to the category of person sui juris, the poor
girl had distress experienced incredible: all you scared, it was all conflicts which seemed impossible
to leave, threw least those harsh rebukes that if the shed were abundant
tears, had suppressed his youthful healthy starts and cut the dire
results that could lead to their inexperience.

They were his regular chats Pollastre some new, some roosters known and quite a number more beautiful
and ugly ladies who came to the house-hungry husband. Because the Niña, in this as in all religiously
kept the traditions inherited from her sister. Was resolute protector of all engagements that
were initiated in Lancia, by blundering that were. The small house on Calle del Carpio was
still forging the forge where marital happiness of the righteous neighbors Lancia.

The record that came over was Paco Gomez. The reason, he had been thrown from house Quiñones
as a result of a phrase of his. Asked a stranger in a circle Altavilla how the Grandee became paralyzed.
"In reality it is not paralyzed - said Paco, - because he has no injuries whatsoever, except that
the legs can not be with heraldry has gone to his head, and bend
it as a step.

"He knew a traitor Quiñones and ordered not to receive him.

He was the soul and joy of the party of the girl.

The incessant go with that mortified the latter had everyone constantly
spasm of laughter.

- Come on, Nuncia, very careful!

Do not talk too much, because you know you've seen the calves y. .. y. .. y. ..

The poor octogenarian blushed like a girl of fifteen. Nothing much as this suffocating unwelcome reminder
of the evening of swing.

Luis and Fernanda started to be here once or twice a week.

Far from the gleaming eyes Amalia, it was comfortable, regained her composure. They talked very
long times quietly, without anyone bothering them, on the contrary, the girl was careful to
provide sufficient time and space. Attended, however, home of Quiñones, saw secret Amalia when
it is required, but would appear colder, more elusive. She, warning him perfectly did not budge,
no one spoke of his ex-girlfriend. However, one day he could not contained:

- I know you entertain at home long hours of talking with Fernanda de Mere.

Cowardly denied.

- Be careful what you do - he continued, fixing his eyes he claims - because a treason could
get out side.

He was so accustomed to the domain of that awful woman, she felt a shudder cold, as if something
ominous and hovered overhead.

But when he went out into the street, outside the magnetic influence of those eyes that troubled
him, he felt invaded by a deaf irritation: "After all, why threaten me? Is it my wife? What rights
does about me? What we are doing is a grave sin, a crime. Who can deprive the repentance, reconciled
with God and be good? "Repentance was the Recently a vague wish, thanks to the fatigue of his
love and fear further divestment inspired him to hell. Now it became true longing. Truth that
offered greater attractive.

Courageously reject sin, purified, free from the eternal fire ... and also Fernanda possess.

Had
long criminal relations had only a blip, Josefina. If it was not for her, was gone for Lancia.
This creature, white and silent as a snowflake, which had the fragrance of lilies, the innocence
of doves, the sweetness melancholy of a moonlit night, spreading over his soul, tormented by
remorse, a balm to the deliciously refreshing. Many times, holding in his arms, asked surprised
how someone so innocent, so pure, so divine, could be the child of sin! But even during that same
girl was new and cruel torments.

Not her alone but from time to time, be forced to hide their feelings,
coldly kiss as other, more coolly than the rest, unable to call her
daughter's heart, do not feel warbling the tender name of father,
he was sad and at times he despaired.

Desquitábase when once in a while, very rarely, he consented to take
her to the farm.

They spent hours in ecstasy, holding on his knees, stroking furiously.

The girl had become accustomed to these violent expressions of love
and thanks.

Sometimes blonde felt his head wet by the tears of his friend.

Raised his eyes in surprise but seeing him smile, smiled too, and stretched her coral lips to
kiss.

- Why are you crying, Luis?

Do you pupa?

Joseph did not understand why it had more serious in the world to
mourn.

Luis loved tenderly, and that shocked and saddened that the coldness
that she usually wore.

Slowly had been guessing, with precocious instinct, that the count wanted more than the others
and to conceal.

She also adopted, following the example, an indifferent attitude toward him when in public. But
when alone, we gave with the same enthusiasm to expansions affection, and this without knowing
why, without realizing what he did.

From the day her godmother ordered off her hair, she noticed that
there was Josefina disgraced.

I no longer kiss with transportation, and did not meet their minimum food cravings, was no
longer the constant concern of the house. Amalia began to vex, to use her cold and indifferent tone,
and the maids followed the example of his wife. The poor girl without understanding what that
change meant, he felt his little heart tightened; explored with its beautiful deep eyes the faces and
tried to decipher the enigma that kept.

It became more serious, more suspicious, more timid.

And he refused to see that toys or goodies before lent her hands
full, he refrained from asking.

Amalia, instead of enjoying as before with their children because
it seemed outrun.

He ordered not take her morning at the bed, as usual. When encountered by chance in hallways,
passed by avoiding her. To all asking the closer to peevish tone:

- You have not washed it yet? But go to fix you. Or: "I was told you
could not the catechism. You'll make very lazy. Care that you're great,
because otherwise I locked in the cave of the mice. "

Before her
was busy taking her lessons, put the needle in the hand and guide
their tiny fingers. Now this task usually left to the maids. He lived
in a state grim concern that did not happen desadvertida the servants.
Josephine also guessed; I saw that her godmother was changed, not
only with respect to it, but his whole way of being. And there, vaguely
in the dark limbo of his thinking that spawned the idea was sad, suffering
and that this was the cause of your bad mood.

One day the lady was
alone in his cabinet. It had dropped into a chair. Still, head thrown
back and hands earrings, seemed asleep. However, Josephine that was
around the cabinet, dared to look through the crack in the door and
noted that it had eyes open, wide open, and his brow was furrowed
anxiously. Without knowing what that was done, with that blind children
have confidence in themselves, opened the door and into the room.
He approached the lady quietly, and fell suddenly on his lap, he said,
fixing her a look of timid affection

- Kiss me, godmother.

The lady
shook.

- How you doing here? Who gave you permission to enter? Have
not you been told not to go up without call you? - asked further wrinkling
his brow.

- I wanted to kiss - Josefina said dully.

- Let me kisses.
Go, go watch it again without my permission.

But the girl, overcome
by emotion, not knowing what to attribute this indifference and willing
overcome at all costs, next to mourn, fell further on his lap and
tried to climb to reach his face.

- Kiss me, godmother.

- Remove!
Let me! - Preventing it lifted the lady replied.

The girl persisted.

-
Do not you want me? Give me a kiss.

- To take off, kiddo! - Shouted
angry .-- Get out now!

At the same time gave a hard push. Josefina,
after staggering, fell to the ground, giving head at the foot of a
chair.

Alzose touching his sore spot, but did not cry. A sense of
dignity that many Sometimes you stay strong in children's hearts,
lent strength to resist tears gushing into her eyes. Turned to her
godmother a look of indescribable sadness and left running from the
room. When he reached the stairs he fell on a step and broke sobbing.

The
thorns of life began to dig cruelly delicate meats that girl, who
until then had found only flowers in their path. The detachment grew
Amalia day by day. At the same time so did the reserve and shyness
of their daughter. But as the end I was a kid, this sadness disipábase
sometimes the impulse of a whim. So it was when it really showed the
coldness and dislike of the lady.

- Madam, Josefina not wear the
green dress.

- What then?

- He says he is dirty.

Amalia got up,
went to the room of the girl and taking her by the arm and shaking
her roughly, said

- What pride is that? Do not you know, wrist, which
in this house you are nobody? What are you here mercy? Be careful
not to get angry, because when you least expect you planted in the
street where I have collected.

Maids heard these words and had very
present