 Then
you can build the flight outdoors, á rays of the Sun, does. But do well or badly? I do not
know; do not want to know it, or find out, or even hear it. I know that the prisoner loves
freedom; I know that who is dark á loves the light; I know who lives sandwich, you want to stretch
their members, want to move, shake, breathe; I know that you want Christian, with a frenetic ánsia,
with a providential instinct. Parents who think otherwise are deceived, and a thousand misfortunes
that happen every day, are real and positive, less than the lightness of the children, that of
the deception of the parents. Take away the birdseed, so live locked in the cage! Not; This is
not to have children; that is to be captives or slaves; that isn't to be parents; that is to be
guards. And what love wants a father the son you have, what respect wants the son he professes,
how to apply that son venere le and ETA you, when there is á him as father, but as comity,
as a tyrant?as a jailer?

I beg á parents, believe that they heard, and that answer; not that I answer of Word, not that
I answer not written; but that respond á does own his conscience
and his heart.

His son is a man; a man who was born to love, how to love his father was born. This son loves his
will, under a higher instinct á á their ideas, á his power; higher power, á á and ideas from around
the world will.

What are trying to parents against that instinct? Can not remove the instinct of the soul of
their children, as they can not remove the mountains, or wipe dry
them seas; what they try against the sea and the mountains?

Love comes as come pests, storms, hurricanes; as the light falls from the stars; as the air runs through
the atmosphere. What are trying to parents against the mystery of
life?

What do they want to make the environment does not run, and the hurricane did not blow, and
light does not fall, and contagion not infested, and Thunder not explode? What they are against
the hurricane, against contagion, against the environment and against
the light?

His son loves by a providential law; by a law of divine origin. God has given, he has it because
God gives: what tries to the father against what God? What plans conceived against Providence that governs
all á, á him also? Here come the parents think so, and to respond.

Nothing more absurd, more more repugnant barbarian played á a father the Holy law of the Council
of the persuasion, of tears, to anger, because many times we angry by what we want, for the sake
that look forward to the objects of our love; but any way can be á a father the power to make a
law of violence, abuse, of an attack. There is no right to do what is not, for the reason that
there is no legitimate abuse, moral crimes. A betrayal, a true betrayal, not is never fair. None of violence,
especially violence being put on a passion of our soul, a passion great, immense, divine; above all,
in a time of our life in which the passion enters so that the passion is almost all, because
the youth is nothing more than a passion. I advise á children humility,
respect, obedience; more than obedience; veneration, a deep and religious
veneration. A parent is you must not only obey, but venerate; I advise
a children the veneration; but not advised a parental violenc