 - I will make an effort - said the girl -, all, all I know, but punish me for daring or keep me
crazy. The man that haunts me I told you, I am struck and comes to me in street, in church
and in your own home and makes me more insolent propositions. Wait dazzle and seduce and to
give up my will. The fatuity with which he shows off and brags to achieve all this, I was humiliated,
I was humiliated and offended me. I want revenge and avenge me. I want to disabuse the man and the
hardest undeceive with disappointment. By itself and through third vile insists on me to get
alone in my house, and I make an appointment. I tired to deny it, without getting to desist, which
I respect, to form the opinion of me should and who will treat me as a woman is honest, I have
agreed to the appointment to come and see and know who I am and to treat as it deserves.

- Animas blessed! - Dona Ines said, putting his hands on his head -. You do not know you've
done. That is aventuradísimo. Even though you know resist, but not tempted or kids, do not you
see that you expose yourself to take your reputation on the floor because that evil seductive
beat you, and if you do not take revenge ends deshonrándote and assuming you got what I wanted?
Did not you notice how unseemly it is for a girl to grant such appointments, although is to be
successful in them? What horrors will he think of you from when giving him the appointment? It
is essential that you send to say that you regret and that the quote will not occur.

Juanita knew that the moment had arrived when I had to take to roll his humility and obedience, independent
declaring his teacher and friend and expressing what their strong and indomitable will, that
nothing and no one bows.

Start-up and going to Dona Ines said:

- You do not know me yet. I do not regret my brow. The better off they believed that Mr. I had
a moment of weakness and then I was sorry. Do not warn that thus I confess I blamed, if not
the crime, the attempted? No, I'm not weak. You believe you have committed to lamb, and I
am a lion. For the strange affection that I've become linsojearme compliments me and comparing
me to think and calling Sulamita gentle and graceful as Jerusalem.

You'll see that I'm also terrible as a squadron of cavalry charging to gallop on the enemy.

Juanita,
near Dona Ines, fascinated watching her cat eyes, which seemed red
light mixture of fire and blood.

Then he continued:

- What is the decency that I recommend that you not miss? Who recognizes that decorum born poor
like me, the daughter of a woman washing tripe and black pudding to win it their livelihood?
All despise me, treat me wrong and think worse of me. So far I have suffered; but I ran out
of suffering. I must be terrible if necessary. In the same books
you have made me read not only extols the servile gentleness of Ruth,
but, if possible, the ferocity of Judith, who slaughters the captain
of the Assyrians, and the frightening feat of Jahel, crossing with
a hammer and nail the temples of Sisera