 With whose sudden cunning Indians
  are perplexed, flew through the shortcuts they knew, the passage
  or ford a stream, called Chuniebí, which is not far from
  the town of San Miguel, but just five miles. This fortified
  the pass, and banks the river with stockades, and having taken
  the town of San Miguel dos iron guns, and made haste to all
  other Five of hard wood (llámanla Tajibo, and the Indians Tayi)
  were posted to defend the referral Miguelistas step. Insensibly
  others returned to their villages neighbors, to care for, as
  they said, to save them wives, children and daughters.
  
  111.

  The enemy meanwhile was arrested four days following payment
  or stay, such Ibicuá, partly by rain, some for other reasons.
  Although he was already so near the enemy could not persuade enough
  Indians save your stuff. Finally morning joined the Michael
  to take the most precious jewels of the temple to Piratini
  the courage, to a chapel made of lawns, a old people, and this
  occasion was persuaded to the same San Lorenzo, and then the
  Johannine and angel. But carried the slack these things, and not
  farther than the two leagues in town.
  
  112.

  On the 10th of May, the enemy approached the river, but received
  with the artillery that was hidden in the jungle were killed,
  as they say, 64, including in this issue the Gentiles killed in
  encounters. However, moved forward, backward which defended
  the banks the creek.
  

  113. On day 11, entering some other Nicole soldiers the people of
  San Miguel, got all the sex and age people weaker, and so left
  the women and almost all children, to be scattered over the fields
  towards the Piratini.

  
  114. Day 12. Having the enemy encamped in the quarries of people,
  nearly three miles distant from him, and now in sight, the nightfall,
  PP. the town of San Miguel were also fled to the Piratini, not
  saving any of the people San Miguel, but hidden here and there,
  and buried things went. This was due to lack of oxen and horses
  that carry the dishes in cars, because in these days, moving,
  as usual, a dissension between Indians do not know why suspect,
  originated from, which have made horses to a fellow named Tary,
  who had gone over to the enemies, that he's had enough fat, coming
  from the Spanish in others weak and exhausted, as the soldiers other
  peoples, to those poor Miguelistas removed almost all horses and
  oxen. From here was born that, after departure of the PP., soldiers
  of other nations, especially San Nicolas, the angels and Thomists,
  caught all baggage and supplies that had been left in the village,
  Having smashed the doors and beat up the porter, is taken as
  found, and after the house ransacked PP., he set fire, which,
  taking shape on the roofs, discovered many things that were hidden
  in the paneling, leaving it prey to the Indians who did not drink.
  Also set fire to the town, but the heavy rain that fell tonight
  put out the fire, burning all the house of the PP., but not the
  church, to which spared the flames, if tackled dudándose patron
  saint of San Miguel, or by high walls stone.
  
  115. Meanwhile, Fr., With all the common people, became very rainy
  night in the field without tents. However, trageron the next
  day, May 13, and the people having been locked in the women faculty,
which call collected, as they saw the flames, and they suspected that
was severely beaten doors, and out of place the loose, and San Angel
took them to his people.

 