 Although Pulcheria possessed, not only this planet we inhabit, but
all other planets and the stars and the heavens, would not own more than a crude imitation the
Universe, as he contemplates the Demiurge in the Paradigm, before removing the copy or transport.
But I am inclined to suspect that you are a fool, and you do not understand or understand ever
these things.

EUMORFO .-- Never sulfides, maestro. If I do not understand these things easier to understand
other and enjoyable to understand. Asclepigenia will perhaps his Demiurge and his mysterious
Paradigm that you understand and possess, but its skies, the planets
and stars are mine since few months.

PROCLEAN .-- What word did you say?

EUMORFO Asclepigenia philosophy .-- I said to you, that does not want you ever wanted to endanger; but
to me there is no danger that meet.

PROCLEAN .-- By the gods above and below, which come from one long
series, I confess it hurts me so just discovered.

However, everything is explained satisfactorily in my system. Things are as they are, and can
not be better than they are because, as they are, are perfect according to their degree.

EUMORFO .-- Take comfort in that twister.

PROCLEAN .-- And why not comfort me? Asclepigenia and I, with the free will of our souls were
ready to love, and we love and loving go on and on forever, with the help of divine favor, that
comes to us by virtue of prayer. Against this, nothing can you, nothing may your peers. There
are, nevertheless, in the outpouring of the soul's powers, some body
that is subject to fate.

This is what I'm in Asclepigenia. I Fate he steals. The free will of it has not been quite spirited
to defend heroically.

But the discord between free will and fate is finally dominated by
Providence which will purify all, reducing it to the heavenly and
wonderful harmony which almost touches and confused with the One hiperhipostático.

EUMORFO

.-- Your speech sounds as a stranger in my profane ears, which leads
me to believe or If you are a marvel of semi-divine wisdom, or you're
stark raving mad.

SCENE VI.

SUCH, MARINO.

MARINO .-- A respectable old man asked
permission to come to talk