 Go down to Sevilla, get into the square, away from the mountains
and deserts, where it was easy to defend, without the help of her two companions, jackfruit and
the rifle, killing him and all for bulls! ... Of the two, was the brave man.

Further thought on his farm, which was at the mercy of Plumitas in country life, which only was
possible that keeping good relations with extraordinary character.

For it should be the bull.

He smiled at the robber, who was watching him with placid face, took
off his hat, and shouted addressing the crowd stirred, but with eyes
fixed on Plumitas.

- Take ustés!

He threw his cap to lying, and hands rushed against each other, struggling
to catch the sacred deposit.

Gallardo made a sign to the National to bring a timely cape the bull
to him.

He extended his crutch the sword, the beast rushed with loud snort,
passing under the cloth red.

"Olé!" Roared the crowd, already familiar with his old idol and willing
to find admirable everything did.

He continued to pass the bull, amidst the acclamations of the people who was a few steps seeing
him and gave him advice about.

Care, Gallardo! The bull was very large. No should come between him and the barrier. Convention
that are open to departure.

Other, more enthusiastic, excited his boldness with bold advice.

- Suértale one of yours ... Zas! Stock, and I'll get in borsiyo er.

Was too large and suspicious of the animal for which it could put
in your pocket. Excited the neighborhood of the dead horse, had a
tendency to return to it, as if drunk the stench of his belly.

In
one of the trends, the bull, tired of the crutch, stood on its feet.
Gallardo had behind him the dead horse. It was a bad situation, but
had worse emerged victorious.

Wanted to take the position of the
beast. The audience was aroused by it. Among men they stood up in
the contrabarrera, his body thrown forward to keep a detail the decisive
moment, acknowledged that many fans began to depart popular of now
returned to him and applaud him, moved by his show of consideration
for the "people."

- Benefit, Gen boy! ... Vamo to see the truth!
... Drop indeed