 Each town hall meeting was a scandal. The Maza had done to prosecute
the corporation outgoing and waste of funds: they had to judge of first instance for you. Belinchón
those who had them in court would justice. But for those who say that God said ayudaréte help
yourself and be put into play powerful influence to get it. Letters came and went from Madrid.
Not the Cabin not neglecting to prevent it. Maza wear yourself out their opponents with the
rod of justice. Like most of Don Rosendo was only two votes, hatched plots to tear them admirable.
Sometimes a special session convened at hours when some of them it was impossible attend, others
feigned errand sent to some council members, announcing that it had suspended; other, at the time
of any matter put to a vote, it was with weasel words according to his friends, so don Rosendo were confused
and voted against him themselves, as happened on more than one occasion. On more than one well,
left closed in the secretariat some councilors taking the key. After the parents of the municipality
are gorged screaming and banging on the door came a bailiff to open, but had already been made the
vote. Thanks to these and other tricks, the countless injustices that committed, vengábase
the choleric ex-Marine from his enemies, who was a beauty. His tactic was attack them where
it hurt most, that is, in their real estate. When a street was one or more houses of any member
of the Club and none of his friends, was the architect several municipal grade, leaving lower.
Thus the foundation is discovered homes and at risk of coming in the soil and therefore the hassle
of putting stairs to climb to the portal. A few months as mayor, there were over twenty houses Sarrio
with the foundation to the air. Other times, he made up the ground so that when rain strong,
were flooded. Naturally, such pranks aroused strong outcry in favor Belinchón, angry tirades
by the lighthouse, and untold riots in sessions municipal .. But Mace was given around a fig.
Remained impassive their unprecedented reforms urban cruel smile listening to the complaints of their
victims, responding with sarcasm ferocious speeches by speakers from the opposing side.

Marcones Mateo introduced in an adjacent room to meeting room. The forum aimed the public was too
ugly to get into it a decent person. In addition, they were interested little fights roosters
those Englishmen.

In the same room sat mingling amicably the two notaries of the population, Mr. Victor Varela and
Sanjurjo. One was a old, small, doe-eyed, with an enormous wig, so rudely made, it seemed Esparto,
the other a middle-aged man, pale, graying mustache and lame from birth. Saluted our old and old
friends whom you see every day. Nobody in the radius of the village left to greet Don Mateo.

-
Waiting for the session ends, eh?

- Yes, sir - a dryly responded and removed the old reservation that the desire to enter further
investigation.

Looked for another conversation, the most he could please the trustees of the public trust, the
hunting.

The two were cruel persecutors of the quail, and woodcock Peguet, but much hardened even more
terrible and the hare. Just came some clear days, these fast or innocent animals had to suffer
a violent persecution by the guild Attorney, actively supported by a half-dozen dogs that, for
better run, let them starve.

Speaking of rabbits, was for Don Victor and Sanjurjo the threshold
of Heaven.

Lift with beam, is tucked into the bush to the waist, Heaven itself.

- Too bad day! - Don Victor said with a sigh, looking at the sky through the glass balcony, full
of dust.

- Truth - Sanjurjo said, giving another sigh .-- However, the land
can Maribona it is a bit soft, it rained enough these days.

- What
has to be! - Mateo uttered .-- Now in the summer will soon be dry.

Moreover, all that region is limestone and absorbs water easily.

The notary looked at him with tenderness.

- She said Pepe Esguila - continued - that the peasants have been
jumping hares these Ladreda days.

- I know - Sanjurjo said .-- Today,
if not for a task that has left us, we gone to there.

At the same time was a sign of intelligence to Don Victor.

- As Pepe had to leave this morning with Fermo.

That at least told me last night.

Notaries looked dismayed.

- What did I tell you, Sanjay! - Don Victor said.

- Frankly, I cheated
on that rascal ... Well, some will ... Tomorrow we are you and me,
Don Victor.

But they had sad news. Stubbornly silent. Inside the living room unrhythmicity
voices heard, strong rumors.

Ever sounded the shrill ringing of the bell presidential order calling.

Don Matthew, sorry for not being right that time to encourage conversation,
set again, facing Sanjurjo.

- Man, it seems incredible that you default
on your leg, you can hunt.

- Who?

"This? Wherever you go, run like a greyhound - Don Victor said with
affectionate enthusiasm .-- As the track is placed on the hare, stop
being lame.

I tell him of lameness that has invented it for attention. Is so lame, like you and me.

- If you did me good! - Uttered Sanjurjo, smiling resignedly.

One touch of a joke, I got happy. Don Victor had the prowess of his partner in various occasions.
One day, to run better, had put on four legs: it was a breath .-- How? - Wondering Mateo astonishment
- on four legs? - what you hear. Sanjurjo was laughing, saying I had learned to run like a child when
his limp was more pronounced and could not compete with peers. In turn, praised the laziness of
Mr. Victor, a registered loungers every little grass for not going ahead and getting tired.
Don Victor laughed too, holding no hare stood with his legs, but
with the eyes.

Many times that stubbornness his had given at the end result! - Do you remember that day in San
Pedro, three years ago, when I left only about Arceanes? Who raised the hare, you went with the
wind cool, or myself that I was fumbling that sifts through the bushes?

The conversation heated up with great satisfaction Mateo could not see anyone sad at his side.
When they were more embedded in it, ignoring the cries blessed and
campanillazos that sounded behind the door, open it with a crash and
displays the majestic Belinchón Rosendo figure in a state of disorder
difficult to paint, hair scrambled, some of them stuck to his forehead
with sweat, swollen cheeks, the glassy eyes, the tie at the neck.

-
Sanjay!

... Sanjurjo, come! - Agitated voice said, without saying goodbye, without ever seeing Don Mateo.

The
notary stood up calmly and walked into the room with him.

Don Victor did not mention none at this sudden departure. Was mingling amiably about the same
as were talking with Don Mateo, who, though a little surprised, no one dared to ask anything.
After a while, appeared Sanjurjo, who closed the door behind him, and came to sit with very
quiet next to them, continuing his interrupted conversation. But not passed many minutes without
which again opened the door to noise, this time the person appearing Chubby Don Pedro Miranda
also state of decomposition.

- Don Victor, Don Victor, between you!

Neither health nor even saw Don Mateo. The notary stood up and followed him seriously.

- What the devil does that mean? - Asked Don Mateo Sanjurjo, after
he had closed the door.

This made a vague gesture of contempt, shrugging his shoulders.

- What nonsense! - Growled Mateo .-- Belinchón and Miranda, who put his life in these council affairs
and wanted to be mayor, now take so much trouble!

Things had changed a lot, actually. Enconadísima struggle that both sides sustained in all areas where
they could, was now engaged in the municipal corporation anywhere. Maza's tyranny so irritated
the minds of the friends of Don Rosendo appealing to every conceivable means to counter it.
At all costs wanted to prosecute abuse of authority.

For this Belinchón had taken his notary service Sanjurjo constantly accompanied him to meetings,
minutes and more reports of the arbitrary the mayor, who went to court and there is stagnated due
to the unwillingness of the court. The Cabin opposed notary notary records to records, complaining
of insubordination most of their votes, on issues that were not within its competence.

After the session, Mr. Mateo was introduced in the office of mayor. I was taking purgative lemonade.
Every few days one of these potions needed to dislodge the bile to
be accumulated in the stomach.

That struggle daily for three years had put to lose the stomach. He was still agitated, convulsed.
His sardonic laugh of the session, the contemptuous calm affecting listen to the speeches of their
opponents, it was pure comedy. Back inside, the anger was eating
her entrails, he mingled with the blood.

Much work had trouble suppressing the blind impulses of anger that
were attacking at every turn!

Two of his friends commented on the meeting, while he, silent, pale, dark circles with its eternal
even more pronounced, stirring the liquid with a spoon. Don Matthew, as one of the few people
who remained neutral in Sarrió, was received with openness and entertainment.

- Sit down, Mr. Mateo. What brings good around here?

The old man said he came to know if it was true the threat to abolish the subsidy the band in case
it was that afternoon to the festival of San Antonio. Maza's face blurred. It was quite true.
Not having the council if any assistance that afternoon instruments
drew the Academy ... Mr. Matthew asked, "why?

... Maza, after teeth grinding as an introduction, said he did not want to contribute to solemnize
character input would arrive in the afternoon and stayed at home
Belinchón.

- Don Quixote would be able to tone by suggesting that
his guest had brought him for his present.

- But, Gabino, if all
the years gone.

No one can believe or think such a thing. Consider which is the most important pilgrimage town.
It would be very sad that the girls do not dance and have fun for a trifle like that.

- Well, nothing, now deleted dance. Sorry. If you want to go to go,
but know what to expect.

It was impossible to make change for a resolution. Don Mateo pleaded first, then angry, and to
the right that gave his age and the noble intentions that always encouraged, and which no one doubted
at the villa, Maza said four fresh and two council members there were present. Neither the mayor
nor bilious they were angry. One came to say:

- Perhaps you're right, Don Matthew, but what do you want? The fight is fight. Interested our pride,
and you have to crush these wretches, or they crush us.

The old man came out of the saddest consistorial angry. In the past three years were incalculable
slights and tasteless in this genre that had been infected. Nobody was and suitable resources
to support their recreational projects. In vain will intensify its efforts to bring theater companies
verse or zarzuela. All broke out shortly afterwards. For prevailing element in the functions of
the Club, it was known that the Cabin is retired, and vice versa. And as for the theater is held
to be necessary the cooperation of all, the result The comic was always escaped starving. The
first thing they asked Don Mateo at home when I was begging to be paid was: - Are paid Fulano Richard
Roe and Zutano? - If yes, already knew what he was told: - I do not count you with us .-- Our
good Lord lately resorted to deception to engage them; but the bitter neighbors immediately
smelled the bacon, and put off his answer and then they find out "what people had." And if
this happened in the drama, what did not happen with the notables in that period of time the flight
had landed in the village? A famous violinist, another who played an instrument of wood and straw
admirably, four brothers in bells, a Moor who showed two cows wise, an English doctor who brought
a microscope the famous Chinese giant, a Navy Seal mom and dad saying, etc. All had protected Don Mateo.
But his active propaganda campaign earned them no big deal.

All the monsters, Spanish and foreign, they knew by hearsay to our retired colonel, and as Sarrió
set foot in, your going to call home. He accompanied them to the mayor, the presented in Saloncillo,
recommended to the owner of the store where they thought displayed, and almost always top of
the pay subscription for the trip. At one time he did not leave a the town that was not happy
and fat. But now! Now Mary Magdalene was not for taffeta, as he answered a few.

Mateo's deputy in all the festivities was Severino, that of the hardware
store.

There was in the province who preceded him in making balloons elegant,
colorful and well provided to go up without tumbling.

Even in the difficult art of bow lift of branches with transparent
night, or fire rockets quickly and lead.

Well well, this ingenious man, who both had rejoiced at the villa
with his outlandish inventions long ago that remained inactive.

When ever I said Mateo, who spent always in his shop a few hours:

- Severino, are we going to prepare something for the eve of San Antonio?

- Why, Mr. Mateo, for what - the shopkeeper responded with dismay.

- A two hundred lanterns iluminacioncita nothing else, a balloon and
some rockets.

- Do you want us to cost us money as the feast of Santa
Engracia?

- Perhaps the Indians loose this time something - muttered
Don Mateo.

- Well, not innocent. It seems impossible to not know!
Release! What did they release these turkeys if not ...?

Both being
unfair to the Indians. These were kept in absolute neutrality, amazed
that wealthy men like Belinchón, Miranda and others are rushing things
both pertained not to their private businesses