 Is that why he had dragged his
father a life of struggle, party services, often made gun in hand? A loss could compromise the
Brull house, ruined by thirty years of policy Election and the lords of Madrid, now that its
representative was going to play the result sacrifice so much getting the council and perhaps the
means of saving the old farms overwhelmed by the weight of liens and mortgages? ...

Rafael, overwhelmed by this strong mother who was the soul of the party, promised not to return
more to the blue house, not seeing the loss, as he called Dona Bernarda, with an intonation
that word was whistling.

But then dated the conviction of their weakness. Despite its promise, again. Was lost paths,
taking long detours, hidden as a child when going to comrades to eat fruit in orchards. The
encounter with a peasant, with a little boy or a beggar, made him tremble, to him, whose name
is repeated throughout the district, and a time to time I will get the popular investiture,
the eternal dream of his father. And appear in the blue house had to pretend that reached
by a free act of will, without fear. Thus, without the knowledge of his mother, continued
to see a woman up eve of his departure for Madrid.

Rafael Arriving at this point of his thoughts, wondering what prompted him to disobey hope his
mother, braving the terrible outrage.

In that house he had found only a frank and casual friendship, a camaraderie thing Ironically,
as a party responsible for solitude to choose between the lower Comrade
less repulsive.

Ay! how he saw the laughter still skeptical and cold with which they were welcomed their words, he
thought of ardent passion.

What a laugh that, insolent and brutal as whiplash, the day he dared to say he was in love!

-
Nothing romantic, eh, Rafaelito? ... If you want to follow friends, be provided they treat me
like a man.

Comrades and nothing else.

And looking at him with her green eyes, light, evil, sat at the piano and began a ideals of those
songs, as if to the magic of art to raise a barrier between both.

Another day I was nervous, the annoyed looks of Raphael, his words of amorous adoration, and
said with brutal frankness.

- Do not you get tired. I can no longer love: I know a lot of men, but if someone make me return
to love, would not you, Rafaelito.

And he there, insensitive to scratches and downs of this terrible friend skirts indifferent conflict
with the blind passion might provoke at home.

I wanted to get rid of desire and could not.

To tear of such an attraction in the past thought that woman was said that despite its beauty, its
aristocratic air, culture with which he dazzled him, poor provinces, it was only an adventuress
who had run half the world, from each other arms. It was a great thing to get, make her lover,
felt in the carnal contact comrade of princes and famous artists, but it was impossible, why
insist engaging and breaking the tranquility of your home?

To forget fumbled the memory of words and attitudes, trying to turn them into weaknesses. Savoring
the joy of accomplishment, when after the gymnastics of thought in it will without wanting to
possess, a eunuch satisfaction which includes cold and indifferent,
like pieces of dead flesh, the naked beauties lying at his feet.

At the beginning of his life in Madrid was believed cured. His new life, continuous and small
satisfactions of self, the greeting of the officers of Congress, the admiration of who came
there and asked him a ticket for the bleachers, the partner being
treated as by these gentlemen, many of which his father spoke with
the same respect that if were demigods, the honor being called, he,
who with loving Alcira tuteaba whole familiarity, and rub in the most
conservative banks with a battalion of dukes Counts and Marquises,
youths who were deputies in addition to the distinction which gives
a dear beautiful and a good racehorse, all this drunk, stunned him,
making forget, believing completely cured.

But to get to know your new life, losing the charm of novelty these
compliments self-esteem, became the tenacious memories to surface
in his memory.

And at night, when sleep loosened its will in painful stress, blue house, green eyes and devilish
of its owner, and the taste is fresh, large and fleshy with his wry smile that seemed to tremble
between bright white teeth were the inevitable center of all his dreams.

Why resist any longer? Could think of it as like, that his mother would not know. Y gave a love
of imagination, in which the distance to that even more beautiful women.

He felt the longing to return to their city. The absence and distance seemed to pave obstacles. His
mother was not as scary as he thought. Who knows whether to go back, - now that he thought his
new life changed - it would be easy to continue those relationships and prepared her for the isolation
and loneliness, he would get better!

Courts to be closed, and obeying the instructions of the supporters continuous and Dona Bernarda
asking him to do something - whatever it was - something beneficial for the city, an afternoon,
first thing, when in the chamber were not more than the president, the mace-bearers and a few
journalists asleep at the podium, raised up with lunch the throat
with emotion, to ask the Minister of Public Works busiest on record
works Alcira defense against the encroachments of the river, a behemoth
that had a sixty years of life and was still in childhood.

After that I could return with the aura of practical deputy, "zealous advocate for our material
interests, "as he titled the local weekly, organ of the party. Y That morning, off the train,
between the grips of the crowd, the deputy, deaf to the Royal March and alive, stood on tiptoe,
looking to see what distance between the flags, the blue house with
masses of orange.

Arriving in the afternoon she bristled emotion the skin and pressed his stomach. Thought seen
his mother, a lover of his prestige and fearful murmurings of the enemy; those demagogues morning
peered at the door of the cafes mocking the demonstration, but all
his scruples vanished when he saw the oleanders near high and sharp
thorns, the two blue pillars that supported the green door bars, and
pushing this went into the garden.

Extendíanse orange trees in rows, forming streets of red soil, wide
and straight as of a modern city pulled line, where the houses were
dark green domes and glossy.

On both sides of the avenue leading to the house, stretched and laced High rose their thorny
branches. Began to sprout them announcing the first buds spring.

From the sound of the breeze stirring the trees and the chattering
of sparrows flew around the trunks, Rafael felt distant music, the
sound of a piano barely touched fingers, and a husky voice, shy, as
if singing to herself.

She was. Rafael knew the music, a lieder of Schubert, the favorite of that time, a teacher who
"was still the best for picking", he said the artist learned slang of the great musicians, referring
to were only more vulgar popular works the melancholy composer.

The boy moved slowly, afraid, as if fearing that the noise of small steps that melody which seemed
to rock the garden lovingly, asleep in the golden light of late.

The plaza in front of the house, and saw the palm trees rustling again, banks masonry seat
and back of floral tiles. They had laughed at it many times listening.

The door was closed. By using a half-open balcony stood a piece of blue silk slightly curved: the
back of a woman.

Rafael steps made a dog bark at the bottom of the garden, ran cackling the chickens pecked at
one end of the square and the music stopped, hearing the drag of
a chair, as if someone put up.

Appeared on the balcony a large light blue gown. All he saw were Rafael eyes, the green flash
of light seemed to fill all the space in the balcony.

- Beppa! Beppino! - Cried a voice firm and warm soprano sound .-- Apri the slide.

And bowing his dark blond head, laden with thick braids, as a former
golden helmet, He smiled with friendly and cheerful confidence:

-
Welcome, Rafaelito.

Do not know why, I expected this afternoon.

We have already heard of triumphs came to this desert and live music.
Congratulations, gentlemen.

Come in your honor.

II

From Valencia to Xativa, across the vast expanse of rice fields and orange cover Valencia holds
that people under the vague title of the Bank, no one could ignore the name of Brull and political
force that meant.

What if he had made national unity and the country or further divided into Taifa waliatos as when
there was a Moorish king in Carlet, another in Denia and the other in Xativa, the regime Elections
held a kind of inviolable dominion in each district, and to go in
the government of the province's political map, provided that were
set in Alcira, said the same.

- There are safe.

We Brull.

It was a ruling dynasty that came thirty years on the district, with ever greater force.

The founder of the sovereign house had been Rafael's grandfather, Don Jaime Ladino, who had amassed
the family fortune with fifty years of slow exploitation of ignorance and misery. It started as a
clerk at City Hall, then clerk of the court was municipal clerk of the notary and assistant at
the Land Registry. Employment was not often of those who put in touch with the poor law that he
did not monopolized, and thus, justice as a favor selling and using the arbitrary and guile to
dominate the rebel, was making way and appropriating pieces of rich soil that he loved forward a
miser.

Bummer solemn all the time talking about the article so many of the law applicable in the case
poor gardeners had much faith in his wisdom and fear of his malice, and came to seek their
advice in all conflicts, paying as a lawyer.

When he made a small fortune continued in the modest functions to keep on your person the superstitious
awe that infuses the peasants all that is on good terms with the law, but instead of being a beggar,
eternal applicant farthing of the poor, devoted to them out of trouble
by giving them money with the guarantee of future crops.

Giving money to loan seemed a meanness. The troubles of the farmers were when the horse died
and had to buy another. For this, Don Jaime is dedicated to sell to gardeners beasts more or less
defective work that gave him some Roma and Valencia he put to much praise as if it were the
Cid's horse. None of installment sale.

Cash money, the horses were not his - as stated with his hand on his chest - and owners wanted
to cash them immediately. All I could do, in obedience to his great heart, weak to the misery
was looking for money for the purchase, asking for any friend.

Fell into the trap the hapless farmer driven by the need and took the horse after signed with all sorts
of loan guarantees and responsibilities of an amount not had seen,
the Don Jaime, a representative of a hidden being which provided money,
Jaime gave the same gift, representing the owner of the horse.

Total: acquired the rustic a beast without haggling over the double of its value, having also
borrowed an amount with growing interest.

In every business of this, Don Jaime was twice the capital. Then came inevitably the plight of
the victim, interest piling up, the new concessions, still more ruinous to tame Don Jaime and
give a month's break.

Every Wednesday, market day in Alcira and large agglomeration of gardeners, street where don
Jaime lived was a jubilee. Had to request extensions are delivering some pesetas as a funny
gift that did not influence the reduction of debit, to request additional
loan humbly, timidly, as if they came to rob the miser Rabbula, and
the strange case was that, as neighbors noticed, all these people
after all he had left there, going happy-faced satisfaction, as if
he had to get rid of a hazard.

This was the main skill of Don Jaime. Usury knew as a favor to present, spoke always on behalf
of others, the hidden owners of the money and horses, men without belly pressed him making him
responsible for the mistakes of borrowers. Those deserved to have trouble the good heart, get to do favors,
and such conviction instill in their victims knew the demon of man that when he arrived for
the seizure and appropriation the camp or the cottage, said with resignation even many of the
dispossessed:

- He has no guilt. What could he do if he forced the poor? Are the other, the other who suck
the blood of the poor.

And so, quietly, the poor Don Jaime acquired a field here, then another
there, then a third which united the two, and return a few years formed
a beautiful garden orange, acquired more traps and trickery to cash.

That was enlarging their properties, and always smiling, spectacles on his forehead and stomach increasingly
voluminous he looked among his victims, tuteándolas with brotherly affection, patting when
they came back with new requests and swearing that he would die in the street a dog that obsession
with doing favors.

That was thriving, but the taunts of the townspeople made him lose confidence of that flock of rustics
who feared him as the law and believed in him as in Providence.

A loan to a spendthrift mayorazgo made him owner of the stately mansion since became Brull family. He began
frequenting the large landowners of the city, though despised, they
opened a gap between them with that instinctive solidarity the freemasonry
of money.

To gain more respect, became a devotee of St. Bernard, Church paid holidays and was always next to
the mayor, whoever he was. For him Alcira was already in others,
than to get the crop picked up thousands of dollars; the others were
the rabble.

By then, freed of the offices he had played low and letting businesses
usury in the hands of those who previously served as intermediaries,
he began to worry about marriage of his son Ramon.

It was his sole heir, a bad head genius alter their welfare tranquil surrounding the old Brull
rest of their prey.

The father was an animal satisfaction at seeing big, strong, bold and insolent, making respect
in cafes and casinos, more so for his fists than by giving the special immunity money in small
towns.

Anyone dare to mock the old usurer taking next to that child!

I wanted to be military, but his father was angry every time the boy
referred to what he called his vocation.

Is that why he had worked getting rich? He remembered the time in that poor clerk had to flatter their
superiors and humbly listen to reprimands with their backs bent. I did not want his only son
to carry him around like a machine.

- Much gold! - Exclaimed with contempt which is not attracted to the
outside - much gallon, but ultimately a slave!

He loved his son free and powerful, continuing the conquest of the city, completing the greatness
family initiated by him, seizing people, as he had taken the money.

Would be a lawyer, the race of men who govern. It was a longing for old Rabbula; see your stem
retracts with head held high in the preserve of the law where he had introduced always cautiously
stated on many occasions dragged out a string to the foot.

Ramon spent some years in Valencia, without being able to leap beyond the run of Right, damn
right that the classes were in the morning and he had to lie down at dawn, at which time the
lamps are turned off that focused its light on the green table. He also had in his room in
the guest house a great gun, a gift from his father, and the nostalgia of the gardens made him
pass many evenings in the pigeon shooting, where he was better known than in college.

One fine specimen of manly beauty, big, muscular, tanned, with eyes compelling, hardened brows,
was created for action, for the activity, was unable to focus their
intelligence in the study.

Old Brull, that greed and prudence, had his son on half-rations - as he said - only just sent him
money to live, but his victim rather than those with trickery that once exploited the peasants,
had to make frequent trips to Valencia, looking Under certain usurers
who made loans to the child in these circumstances, the insolvency
could lead to jail.

Up to Alcira came rumors of other exploits of the prince, called him to see Don Jaime the nonchalance
with which he spent the money. In family gatherings friends were talking scandal to the escapades
of Ramon, a fight game as a matter of output a casino, a father and
a brother, ordinary people, in blouses, who swore to kill him unless
married with some girl who accompanied the workshop day and night
to dance.

Old Brull would not tolerate any longer the escapades of his son and made him leave studies.
There would be a lawyer: in the end did not need a degree to be a character. In addition, he was
ailing, it was hard to watch in person the work of their gardens,
and needed the help of his son seemed born to impose his authority
to those around him.

He had long since turned their attention to the daughter of a friend. At home they felt the
lack of a woman. His wife had died shortly after he retired from business, and the old Brull was
indignant at the neglect and lack of interest of the maids.

To marry Bernarda Ramon with her, an ugly girl, sullen, sallow and lean meat, which inherit their
parents three beautiful gardens. In addition, it called attention industrious and economical
with parsimony in its expenses that bordered on stinginess.

Ramón
obeyed his father. Educated in the prejudices of rural wealth, believed
that a person decent not oppose the union with a female ugly and unfriendly,
if fortune had.

The father and daughter understood each other perfectly.
Touched the old woman watching Briefly serious and indignant at the
slightest waste of the servants, shouting at When colonists felt the
slightest slip in the garden and discussing and fighting with buyers
orange for a penny more or less the arroba. This new daughter was
the consolation of their old age.

Meanwhile the prince was hunting
in the morning in the nearby mountains, and spent the afternoon in
coffee, but no longer met the applause of those gathered around the
table pool, or visiting heading upstairs. Coterie sought serious people,
was a friend of the mayor and talked about the need for all wealthy
people were together to get into a fist to the rascals.

- It stung
ambition - "the old man cheerfully to his daughter .-- Let him woman,
he will open step ... So you want to see.

Began to enter the hall
and soon acquired notoriety. A minor objection consistory was for
him a personal affront, ending discussions on the street with threats
and beating his greatest glory was that the enemies were saying:

-
Beware Ramon ... See that this is very rough.

And with his aggressiveness,
showed to be captured friends, a sumptuously that was the torment
of his father. Doing favors, kept all those whose revulsion at work
and poor head were fearsome, gave money to those who served as heralds
of his rising fame in taverns and cafes.

His ascent was rapid. The
old that protected and guided, were postponed. Soon time was mayor,
his influence, finding close the city, spread across the district
and found strong support in the capital of the province