 

Brigadier Rotalde was bareheaded, and with a courage of feeling, which was not the owner of repression,
exclaimed: Bartolomé Esteban Murillo's alive! This impromptu exclamation had some fluid electric.

Our
curiosity is satisfied.

The painting we see is the ASUNCION. Can you explain the merit of that huge box? I think not.
In this case what the color and sound. In vain to explain the color blind, and sound to the deaf.
Whoever does not accept these notions of natural creation, lower to the grave without them. The
understanding has no fantasy and heart to understand and feel the beauty that the genius of a
man carved in that canvas, who does not hear in your soul, deep inside, which tells the sweeping
silence, that eloquence has not spoken to the mouth, this silent eloquence, and which therefore
is more sublime; who do not have the talent of enthusiasm, as had the talent of art Murillo, can
hardly understand a word of that divine tongue. The more you explain, at least understand. No
But the reader will realize my impressions. Do not take the reader to pride, which I to say
naive. I do not see the merit of Asuncion, where others see it. I see big, very large, beautifully
inspired and happy, where there usually is. I think the teacher merit of this picture is not, but
that taking all forms of women, no us to experience the thrill of sex that has that mysterious
indecision thought awareness, hope, ie, of the Virgin, because hope is a lifetime and all the
beauty of virginity. She is a woman in your body, and an ideality in his soul; and idealism is so
powerful that the impression of the body disappears, and the spirit triumphs. That assumption
is an art school where he knelt before faith. I do not see Murillo; I do not see to Spain,
do not see at Seville, I do not see anyone I see only the Assumption. The work is so great that
it kills the idea of ??the worker.

Where begins the Virgin? It is not known.

A magnificent robe conceals his feet.

Where does it end? It is not known. The index finger of his right hand points to the top, and
the sky is a space that knows no boundaries. It seems to be, which is outside the box, which
is cast to fly without wings, it seems that this figure has its complement in another world,
it seems that Murillo wanted to finish it in the arcane of hope in the shadow of a prediction,
in thought of God. The Assumption is a table that lacks nothing, as artistic creation, and considered
religious creation, has no beginning or end.

The viewer does not know do not see, where to start, or where he concludes.

In that mysterious and transcendental ignorance, in that sublime ignorance
that ASUNCION takes hold of us, is the great merit of the painting,
judging by what I feel front of her.

I shall give notice of some details, trying to look away from many other beauties because every
stroke of this painting is worth a good picture.

I know that the eyes of the figure that I see are beautiful, and yet
they wonder that amazing!

I could not tell what color they have. And what is this? says one reader. Consists Murillo wanted
that viewers did not see the eyes of the Assumption, but who would look the sky, which looks
to the inspired image.

Another thing really catches my attention, and the profound philosophy that I thought reveals
to hide the feet to the Virgin. Actually, to a virgin, should not see their feet. All what a
virgin lost in shadow, lost in mystery, and whatever you lose in
mystery, lost of virgin. But do fold to indicate the thigh! What shape
to suggest the waist! What cloak to hide the feet! What ripples in
the suit! What softness of color! How sweet feeling! Expressions of
attitude! What purity and fervor of soul! No I mean the master of
the brush