 Night and the cunning, matching the strength of the enemies
would have given encouragement to the sick to march against him. It was also possible two or
more were awaiting him.

Came another yell, but Jaime shrugged again. I could yell whatever
he wanted her unknown challenger ... But alas!

Impossible to read! Futile effort to pretend quiet! ...

Repetíanse howling furiously now, as the crowing of a cock angry. Jaime believed see the man's
neck, swollen, red, with the tendons vibrant with anger. The guttural shout seemed to take
little by little, to repeat, the contours and significance of a language.

It was ironic, mocking, insulting, his prudence taunted the stranger; seemed to call him a
coward.

In vain he tried not to listen. Nublábase his sight, he thought it
was no longer the candle light in intervals of silence, the blood
roared in his ears.

Can Mallorquí was thought very close, and perhaps Margalida, trembling and clinging to a small
window, I heard these cries against the tower, where he was a timid man listening to them too, but
locked as if it were deaf.

No, not more. He threw this time for the book on the table, and then instinctively certainly without
knowing what he did, blew the candle flame. To be in darkness walked few steps with advanced
hands, completely forgotten about the attack plans had conceived
just before its rapid thought.

Anger upset their ideas. Blindness sudden spirit had only one idea, like the last flicker of
light that goes away. Playing and the gun with his hands Palpant when catch withdrew. I needed
a weapon less embarrassing, perhaps would have to descend and crawl through the bushes.

Pulled inside the strip, and the gun slipped out of his hole with the smoothness a beast silky
and warm. Groped to the door and opened it slowly, only a small space, the need to stick their
head, their rude hinges creaking slightly.

Febrer passing from the darkness of his room to the diffuse stellar
brightness of the light, he saw the patch of weeds around the tower,
beyond the confused whiteness of the farmhouse, and across the black
hump of the mountains cutting a sky full of stars palpitations.

This vision lasted only a moment: he could not see. Two small flashes, two wriggle marcáronse
fire one after another in the darkness of the bushes, followed by two explosions almost got confused.

Jaime
felt a sensation in his nose acre of burnt gunpowder, which may not have been more a phenomenon
that imaginative.

At the same time felt on top of his skull a silent and violent shock, something that seemed unusual
touch without actually touching, the feeling of rubbing of a stone. Something fell on his face
like a shower impalpable. Blood? ... S land? ...

His surprise only lasted a moment. He had been fired from the bushes, near of the ladder. The
enemy was there ... There! He saw in the dark the point where they come the flashes, and moving the
right hand outside the door, fired his gun a ... two ... five times, all the capsules containing
the cylinder.

He threw nearly blind, disoriented by the darkness and confusion of anger. A slight Noise cut short
branches, a faint ripple of the bush, filled him wild joy. Undoubtedly had reached the enemy, and
in your satisfaction, put his hand the head to convince him that he was not wounded.

To pass down his face after he fell from his cheeks and eyebrows and often somewhat pimply. There
was blood: it was dirt, dust and mortar. His fingers glide over the scalp, still shaken by the deadly
touch, stumbled with two holes in the wall, similar to small funnels, which kept a warm feeling.
The two bullets had grazed, going to dig on the wall at a distance
from his head almost imperceptibly.

Febrer felt herself happy by his good fortune. The healthy, intact,
and his enemy!

... Where would at that time?

Should he go down to fetch between tamarisk and recognize him in
his agony?

... Suddenly the cry was repeated, the howling wilderness, far, far away, almost in the vicinity
of the farm: a Auque triumphant, mocking, Jaime interpreted as an announcement of next round.

Can
the dog Mallo, excited by the gunfire, barking mournfully. In the distance, other dogs they
answered. The howling man went away, with endless repetitions, each time more distant, weaker,
sinking into the blue mystery of the night.

III

Just broke the day the Chaplain went to the tower.

I had heard everything. His father, who had a strong dream, I was not aware perhaps those hour event.
Since the dog was barking and sound with many shots as the farm in a war Pep good when he
went to bed tired of your tasks by day, was insensitive as death. The rest of the house had passed
a night of anguish.

The mother, then several attempts to wake her husband without success to get another incoherent
words followed by more snoring, had prayed until dawn for the soul of the lord of the tower believing
him dead.

Margalida, who slept near her brother had called him softly and distressing to hear the first
shots. "Do you hear, Pepet ?...»

The poor girl was sitting up in bed, lighting a candle, to light had
atlot seen, his face pale and eyes of crazy.

She, so modest and shy, showed agitation in the greatest secrets of their nakedness, forgetting
everything, twisting arms, her hands to her head. "Don Jaime had been killed: it heralded
the heart." And trembled with the distant echo of new shots. "A true string of shots", he said
the Chaplain, had answered the first two explosions.

- Those were from you, eh, Don Jaime? - Continued the boy -.

The moment I met and I told Margalida. I remember later that you fired the gun at the beach.
I have a good ear for these things.

Then was the despair of his sister, looking for clothes in silence, wanting to dress Running
to the tower. Pepet accompany her. But then, suddenly sheepish, he did not want go. He knew only
mourn, and opposed the boy fulfill his purpose to escape by the wall
of the corral.

They had heard the Auque next to the farmhouse, long after the shooting, and talking about
this cry, the boy smiled with malicious air. Then, Margalida, suddenly reassured by the words
of his brother, was silent, remaining motionless on the bed, but
throughout Chaplain night heard sighs of anguish and a slight murmur,
as if under her veil a softly muttered words and words with relentless
monotony.

Young also had been praying.

Then, to spread the light of dawn, got up all but the father, who
remained in his peaceful sleep.

When he looked out onto the porch women, dominated by the most gloomy thoughts, expected to witness
a horrific picture: the tower destroyed and its ruins hanging over the body of the Lord. But
the Chaplain had laughed when he saw the door open, and next to it, as on other mornings,
Don Jaime, bare-breasted, splashing in a bucket that he brought from
the coast filled with seawater.

No he was wrong to laugh at the terrors of women. "In Don Jaime, who had not kill him. And this he
said, he understood men. "

Then, after the short story that made him the lord of all that had
happened at night, examined squinting with intelligent expression,
both with bullet holes open on the wall.

- And you had your head
here, where do I have?

... Futro! ...

His eyes showed admiration, idolatry devout, with portentous man who had just saved by a miracle.

Febrer
questioned the boy about the alleged offender, trusting in their knowledge of the people the
country, and the Chaplain smiled with an air of someone important.

I had heard the howling. It was the same way he had the sang Aucar: many had imagined it was
him.

The it howled in the serenades, dancing evenings in and out of the processions.

- But is not it, Don Jaime: I'm sure. She sang If asked, say yes to be important. But it was
the other, Ferrer, I knew the voice, and Margalida believe the same.

Then, with serious gesture, he spoke of the foolish fear of women,
who argued the need to notify the Civil Guard of San Jose.

- You
will not do that.

Right, Don Jaime, which is nonsense? Civilians only serve to cowards.

The sneer and shrug with which he returned to answer Febrer boy they look happy.

- That's what I figured I: it is not used on the island.

But since you are a stranger!

... Do you well, every man must defend himself, for that is man, and if in a hurry, looking for
friends.

And with that pavoneábase, outlining in his person all the powerful aid that could Jaime count
in times of danger.

The Chaplain wanted to take advantage of this event, advising Mr. convenience take to live in the
tower.

If he were to ask the fate Pep, he could not deny that favor. Don Jaime suited him to have
him at his side would always be two for defense. And support the urgency of the request, but
remember the anger of Pep, and the certainty that it would take him to Ibiza in early next
week to shut him up in the seminar.

What would the Lord when deprived of the most faithful saw their friends? ...

Wanting to demonstrate the usefulness of their presence, the forgetfulness
of Febrer censored at night above.

Who could occur to stick his head out the door when you were aucando with the gun drawn? By a miracle
he had not been killed. And the lesson he gave?

Can not remember your advice to lower the window, behind the tower, to surprise enemy? ...

-
It's true - Jaime said, really ashamed of his forgetfulness.

The Chaplain, who tasted success proud of this advice, gave a start
to look by the doorway.

- The stop!

...

Pep up the hill slowly, arms back and look pensive.

The boy was alarmed to see him. Undoubtedly came from the recent news moody: not convenient meet
him. And repeating again Febrer convenience that kept him as partner, took the legs out the window,
put his belly on the windowsill, and slipped by the wall.

The peasant, upon entering the tower, spoke without emotion of the event last night like a normal
fact that only slightly alter the monotony of camp life. The women had told him ... he had a
dream very heavy ... "So that was not nothing?

...

He listened with downcast eyes and thumbs together the brief account
of the Lord.

Then he went to door to see the traces of the projectiles.

- A miracle, Don Jaime, a true miracle.

He returned to his chair, long time standing still as if it cost him
a great inner effort operating their slow thoughts.

- The devil is
at liberty, sir ... Unsurprisingly, because I say so ... When you
want impossible things, everything gets tangled and just peace.

Then, raising his head, fixed his eyes cold and piercing on Don Jaime. Should be notified the mayor,
should say all this to the Civil Guard.

Febrer shook his head. No, it was a matter for men, which was airing himself.

Pep was staring at the man, in a puzzling, as if in thought struggles found ideas.

- You do well - said after a while the phlegmatic peasant.

Outsiders thought differently, but he was glad that Mr. say the same
thing saying his poor father (holy glory that is).

On the island everyone thought the same: the old was right.

Then, Pep, without consulting the Lord, set out its purpose of assisting
in his defense.

It was a duty friendship. He had his gun in the house. I had not used it, but in his youth, when
he lived his famous father (holy glory that is), had been a regular shooter. Would to spend
nights in the tower, next to Don Jaime, that he did not live alone, exposed a surprise during sleep.

Nor
was surprised the farmer from the steadfast refusal of the Lord,
somewhat offended by the proposition.

He was a man, not a child in need of company. Everyone in your house, and could come As luck
would.

Pep also agreed with nods to those words.

The same thing his father said, and like him all the good people who followed the old ways.
Febrer a child seemed true of the island ... Then, softened by the admiration he felt for Don
energy Jaime, proposed another arrangement.

Since the man did not want company in its tower, could lower Can sleeping in Mallorquí. The improvise
a bed anywhere.

Febrer felt himself tempted by the proposition.

See Margalida! ... But the tone of looseness with invited the father and the restless gesture that
awaited her answer did give up. No, thank you very much, Pep remained in the tower. Could believe
that changing housing impulses fear.

The peasant shook his head again with signs of assent. Understand this attitude, the same he
would do in your situation.

But this was no obstacle to Pep slept less at night, and if he heard
shouts and shots near the tower come out to the field with his old
shotgun.

And as if that requirement was imposed to sleep anxiously, ready to expose the skin defense of
his former master, broke the calm that had remained until then, the peasant raised his eyes and
clasped his hands:

- Oh, Sinor! Sinor! ...

The devil was abroad, returning to repeat: there was no peace. All for not believing to him for
going against the tide of ancient practices, which set people wiser
that now ... What would stop this?

Febrer tried to pacify the peasant, and let out a thought I wanted to keep hidden. Pep could calm
down. He was leaving for good, not wanting to disturb their peace and their family.

Ah! Was it really was going, sir? ... The joy of the farmer was so big and so alive his surprise
that Jaime was undecided. He seemed to see in the rustic little eyes, animated for the joy of the
unexpected news, some malice. If you believe that his sudden islander trip was to escape from enemies?
...

- Me voy - Pep said, looking at with hostility - but do not know when. Later ... when I fit.
Before I have to live here, I find that I seek.

Pep was a gesture of resignation: his joy vanished, but also came close to nodding these words,
adding that the same would have made his father and so he thought.

When the peasant got up to leave, Febrer, who was standing at the door, distinguished farmhouse
near the Chaplain, and this brought to mind the desire of the boy. If Pep not bothered by his
request, could leave the atlot to accompany him in the tower.

But the father welcomed his request harshly.

No, Don Jaime. If needed company, there was he was a man. The boy studied. The devil was loose,
and time was already impose his authority and that the family did not follow disarray. In the
next week meant to take the seminar. It was his last word.

Febrer, when he was alone, went down to the sea. Guster Uncle repaired with tar and oakum the
joints of his boat, fantastic dry. Lying there like a huge coffin, looking with their weak eyes
the interstices, and to find one who lacks buoyancy, joy made him
burst loudly sung in Latin word made.

Noting that the boat was moving and leaning on the railing to see the gentleman, the old man
had a smile malicious, and disrupted their chants.

- Hi, Don Chaume!

...

He knew everything. Can women Mallo had told the story, and those hours circulated through the
paddock, but from ear to ear, the way to talk about these things, but people become aware of
justice, which only serve to entangle it. "So you had searched the night before, aucándolo to
come out of the tower? ... Ji, ji! He also ... he, too, at other times, when he made love
to her dead between two trips, he had aucado a comrade who was his
opponent.

But he took the girl for having a hand smarter; total, a knife to his friend in the chest, which
had plenty of time between life and death. Then he lived on guard always coming down to earth to
rid revenge of their enemy, but the years pass, all is forgotten, and the two friends ended for
smuggling together, sailing from Algiers to Ibiza and the coasts of Spain.

Guster uncle laughed with childish laughter, pleased with these memories resurface youth in his memory
if he heard of shots, stab wounds and provocations in the night.

Ay! He no longer aucarían! This was for young people. And his accent was sad to not be mixed sets
of love and war, which he considered essential for a happy existence.

Febrer left him singing the Mass as he finished fairing. In the tower found Shopping of their
food on the table. The Chaplain had left without waiting, without doubt obeying some urgent call
from his father angrily. After lunch back to watch Jaime the two shells had holes in the wall.
After the excitement of danger, and coolly assess the severity of it, felt a vengeful rage, more intense
than he had driven to the door last night.

Few millimeters below the target, and have shot in the dark, at the foot of the door like a hunted
animal. Christ! Y and could die a man of his class, a victim of betrayal
and stalking one of those rustic!

...

His anger took a vengeful impulse. Felt the need to provoke, to be arrogant, appear calm and threatening
to the men, including his enemies were hiding.

He picked up the gun, examined their loads, threw it over his shoulder and fell from the tower,
taking the same way the previous evening. Passing Can Mallorquí, the barking dog output to
the door and her mother Margalida. The men were in a distant field
Pep cultivated.

The mother, whimpering and words cut through the emotion, I could only take hands of the Lord.

-
Don Chaume! Chaume Don! ...

Should be very careful, leaving little of the tower, be on guard against
enemies.

Y Margalida, silent, with eyes wide open, looked at Febrer, revealing admiration and anxiety.
Do not know what to say, his soul seemed simple humbly collected, no finding words to express their
thoughts.

Jaime continued his journey. Turning Margalida repeatedly saw, standing on the porch, following
along with visible anxiety. Mr. went hunting as usual, but alas! took the mountain path, went
towards the pine forest, one of whose bald was the smithy.
Along the way she pondered Febrer attack plans. He resolved to take
immediate action. Verres just come out the door of his house, shoot
the two gun shots. He vented his business to sunlight, and be more
lucky: her two bullets would not to dig into the wall.

But to get
to the forge was shut. No! The blacksmith had gone, the old black
dress was not there to receive angry with hostile glare his eye.

He
sat down under a tree as before, with his gun ready, sheltering behind
the trunk, if this loneliness hid a snare. It was a long time, the
pigeons Wild, inflamed by the quiet and solitude of the forge, fluttered
in the square without looking at the hunter, stationary and forgotten
about them. A cat moved slowly through the dilapidated roof with tiger
stretches, trying to catch the restless sparrows.

More time passed.
The waiting and immobility Febrer calmed. What was there, away from
house in the middle of the mountain, and near dusk, waiting for an
enemy whose guilt only had vague hints? The blacksmith was perhaps
at home. She would see him locked up arrive, and it was useless to
expect. It could also be that he had gone away with the old and not
return until late at night. Had to leave.

And with the gun in hand,
to be the first to shoot if the enemy was, undertook return to the
valley.

Again, again found in the way peasants and girls looked at
him curiously tenacious, just replying to his greeting. Saw again
sang with his head bandaged, in the same site, surrounded by friends,
who spoke with violent gesticulations. Recognizing the lord of the
tower, before their comrades could hold him, stooped down, and grabbing
two grooves in the hardened stone and flung him against it. The rustic
missiles, driven a weak arm, failed to make half of its path. Then,
angered by derogatory Febrer serenity, still later, the atlot, broke
into threats. It would kill the Spaniard! declared it to screaming.
We all knew that he swore the destruction of this man!

Jaime smiled
sadly to these threats. No, the rabid lamb was not what had been Pirate
the tower to kill him. His outrageous ranting enough to prove it.

Mr
passed quietly the first part of the night. After dinner, when it
was Margalida brother with the sad knowledge that his father not about
to take the Seminar James closed the door, putting behind her the
table and chairs. Feared being caught for sleep. He turned off the
light and smoke in the dark, indulging in the beating of the small
blight cigar, which widened with a hickey. He had his gun nearby and
the revolver belt, ready to use them at the slightest movement of
the door. Accustomed to her ear the sounds of the night and breathing
the sea, looking through them at a touch, a indication that solitude
had other human beings apart from it.

He spent a long time. In light
of the cigar looked at his watch. Ten. Sounded far Bark and Jaime
thought she recognized the dog Mallorquí Can. Maybe someone over betrayed
approaching the tower. It was about the enemy: it was possible to
creep cautiously out of the path, between the branches of the tamarisk.

He
joined, requiring gun, looking for the gun in his belt. As soon as
you hear a cry of defiance or a tremor in the door window was put
down, and turning the tower picked up the enemy from behind.

He spent
more time ... Nothing! Febrer wanted to watch the clock, but his hands
would not obey his will. No longer shone in the dark red tip of the
cigar. His head had ended up falling on the pillow, her eyes closed,
he heard cries of challenge, shooting, cursing, but this was an abnormal
state, as if I lived in another world, where the insults and attacks
not wake up sensitivity