 The people said: The most wanted more to his father,
and the child wants more to his sister: the thirty thousand pieces should be given to the highest.
Called Zadig on them both, and told him the most: your father is not dead, he has healed from
his last illness, and returns to Babylon. Thank God, "replied the boy, but his tomb fed had cost
me dearly. The same is then said to Zadig the child. Thank God, he replied, I shall return
to my father all quanto I have, but I want my sister dexase what I have given. Restituiréis
not nothing, 'said Zadig, and it will give thirty thousand coins, which you You are the one
You wanted your father more.

Had been a rich maiden troth to two wizards, and after receiving Both instructions a few months,
was found on tape. Both wanted to marry her. The maid said that he would be her husband had
put the state to give citizens the empire. One said: I have been who have done good work, the
other: No, I who I had so much joy. Okay, said the damsel, I recognize a father of the child
which can give better education. Gave birth to a boy, and wanted to educate one another magician.
Carried Zadig the court before, he called them both, and said the first: What have you to teach
your student? Enseñaréle replied the doctor, the eight parts of speech, dialect, astrology, demonology,
which thing is the substance and accident, the abstract and the concrete, the monads and pre-established
harmony. For me, he said the second, I will try to make fair and dignified have friends. Zadig
failed: Ora Whether or not her father, you will marry his mother.

Every day came to the court complaints against Itimadulet Media, called Irax, great potentate,
was not evil nature, but the vanity and the delight he had been ravaged. Rare sometimes allowed
him to speak, and never dared to contradict him. There are so vain peacocks, doves and more voluptuous,
freshwater or less lazy, just breathe pride and vain delights.

Zadig Probóse to correct him, and sent from the king a music teacher
with twelve singers and twenty-four violins, a steward with six cooks
and four gentlemen, that dexaban not ever