 Observe also that if he beats the competition when Angelo Nardi the expulsion
of the Moriscos, maintains friendship with him and his former rival in its favor declaring on information
from the habit of Santiago, makes them his classmates called to Madrid Alonso Cano and Zurbarán,
going to Zaragoza with the Court and is appointed by them Jusepe Martinez House painter. Juan de Pareja
slave, as aforesaid, of Velazquez, had from fellow fans to painting and worked in secret. One day,
knowing that the King had to go to study his master, laid back against the wall a picture that
was painted in secret, hoping that the monarch be curious to examine it. It happened as I thought.
Came Felipe IV, discovered the box and ask whose it was. Couple fell at his feet, then Velazquez
said the monarch. "Warn them that whoever has this ability can not be a slave." Its owner free
him at once: but life couple continued serving him and killed him his daughter and her husband.
Indeed it says much for the love that second and voluntary restraint the servant. El Conde-Duque
Velasquez protects from 1623 and after twenty years of losing the painter is the favor of the few
who remain faithful. Where further evidence of goodness than favoring peers, winning the voluntary
submission of which was a slave and persist gratitude to the dangerous friendship of the fallen?

Courtly
servility and pompous style of the times they wrote, they Pacheco and Palomino refer to the favors
granted by Velázquez Philip IV with such colors their stories were
the basis for a tradition according to which, the monarch appeared
as real and enthusiastic protector of the artist.

Nowadays, the documents found by diligent investigators in the archives of Simancas Palace and
have demonstrated the dry language of clerical roles than those who gave the king the role of sponsors,
incurred gross exaggeration. Felipe IV enjoyed seeing Velázquez painting, was key to go when
he wanted in his study, to be aware that once remained seated three hours for her portraits
but raised his career left him ascend palace step by step, allowed to be paid mostly with
delays, decided against it when had disagreements with some high official of bondage, as in 1645
with the Marquis Malpica [95], especially in jobs that kept him, forcing him to serve in low necessities,
stealing time to his art that was as prejudicial to their glory. In the end, allowed four days
to the death of the new quarters, immediately appointed to succeed him, seized as were in
rooms on the pretext that Velázquez accounts of throwing aposentaduría against a range of several
thousands of maravedises. Until after Felipe IV is not dead it became clear that the administration
had 74,769 Palacio real, and it Velázquez 19,945, Villamil Crusade being tested by publishing the
documents, fully demonstrated the disorder in real offices and honesty of the artist. Covered
but not his protector for it to posterity to judge a writer Philip IV so attached to tradition
and monarchy as scholar Don Pedro de Madrazo. And he's right, because if it were not for portraits
where immortalized him what today would inspire interest figure for the King?

[Image: MUSEO DEL PRADO

THE MENINAS

FRAME.

To fully appreciate the importance and significance of Velázquez in
the history of Spanish painting just look at what it was before he
produce their wonderful work.

Our painters of the last third of the sixteenth century, largely
emancipated from foreign teachings that were formed, they begin to
acquire a national character, but the influence Italian, as well as
speculative and practical, is still very great.

From Italy come Peninsula to settle in our many teachers, and there will be refined born here.
Each other, molding the social environment when working in Spain, where customs were less sumptuous
and austere religious spirit, start printing native art own label: Renaissance lost in his
hands all profanity, sensuality sheds pagan literary sense, and gains in severity and force what it
loses in grace, poetry and elegance, our art, as life takes on a tinge of great sadness on both
melancholy reigns distilled mystical books. In Italy the painting displays extraordinary splendor,
even in the temples is cheerful and highly decorative, and also to be used and protected by
the Church is as much or more illustrious families, the lords and governments of the small republics.
In Spain, by contrast, just encouraged to grow and develop only by the devotion of prelates,
councils, communities and parishes to which commands paint individual piety is dedicated to
faculty and chapel. The religious expression of the national spirit is admirably performed
and served. On the other hand completely lack historical painting, family and customs. In regard
to the external art of media, procedure, conditions personal, our writers and artists are influenced
by knowledge of aliens: some, such as Luis de Vargas, Rafael imitate others, such as Pantoja,
Antonio Moro follow: the Greco, but remained here many years, renounced his religion to Venice.

Velázquez,
pulsed innate powers and the conditions under which developed his life, is an independent isolated
in the national art. Exerts more influence in painting today it had in its time. Can be called
the originator or revolutionary? If it was not the intention, actually came to be, not because
I follow many, but because away from the past, pointed the way for the future. His aesthetic,
purely instinctive was not to amend the flat nature under the guise of seeking dignity, correction
or grace. He had only the truth abundantly clear: if the painting is so much better as seems
more real, is the first painter in the world.

Paintings make up the various elements, drawing, composition, color, execution, so related each
other, that there is no means considered in isolation, but must differ for understood. Well,
this, by way of separation is very difficult to establish case Velazquez, because in his work, as in reality,
merge and interpenetrate. Draws with simply amazing, creates the form, plays the kind, gives it character,
but look for look begetters strokes of everything, and is not, because his drawing is not made
only lines, but also with the color, with distance, with the air. Not fully achieved site in
its infancy, but the purity of its design is such that is precisely what more help to distinguish
the original from the copies or imitations that are attributed.

It is often said that it was a colorful sunset, but it should explain what sense is this true.

In
two ways captures the color to see: and because they look seductive, and because persuade its
truth: the first is easily accomplished with a piece or part of the composition expense of the
rest: the latter is not achieved but singing, harmonizing all so that each thing has not only
the color of its own but the same as the place occupied and modified by his surroundings. So
that essentially is the ratio of values that creates the whole: be overlooked, is hold partial
qualities: Rubens and deployed pump in color, more wealth Titian,
Veronese more variety: the likelihood of the overall impression, none
matched Velázquez.

Critics and biographers divide what happened during his life three times, wanting to see in
each a different style or manner.

The first involves what he did before coming to Madrid at the beginning of your stay in court,
then it is dry and hard to find with tenacious effort modeling: its concern is to the corporeal:
the Adoration of the Kings and some portraits, such as character unknown number of the Prado
1103, represent this stage of development of their faculties.

In the second, looser, easier, begins to give the chiaroscuro of exceptional importance: Drunks
box represents an observation of the entire record, but yet he has
not lost in the primitive harshness.

The works that provide more complete idea of ??this period, are painted on his first trip to Italy,
The Forge of Vulcan and Joseph's coat.

In the third, which covers from the second trip back until he dies,
his powers come and their knowledge combined, the limit of what art
can do: what he paints is confused with reality.

But in fact this division is conventional, only serves to classify their work in relation the
time when made. His view on the interpretation of Nature is one,
constantly going through various degrees.

His skills are perfected by time and study without deterioration in fundamentals.

He who has called his first style is now a teacher himself in the
process of training investigates and analyzes up to the quintessential
of what looks, rushing, finishing far in the run the risk of sounding
even harder: it is aware of what he does, but is still struggling
with the influence of his surroundings and ways of expression that
was around him used: no age or student discipline, or lack of experience,
let break with what your school is considered more successful, then
your paint is like of Zurbaran and others who had as partners.

Soon, as just indicated, it begins to get some purely technical summary that before anyone
dreamed, in the same box Drunks, where he still has not lost all
his past hard, dry, start the separation between the contour of the
figures and background; his palette is simplified and is now the ripe
fruit, which they have contributed their powers native media flow
study and observation that might facilitate the works some teachers
gathered in Madrid and El Escorial.

In Italy for the most vigorous display of independence that the self-confidence may suggest an
artist. Another less sure of his own strength as it had pledged to see or how to run one of
those painters who filled with his glory Venice, Florence and Rome: he modifies progress without
imitating anyone, without losing a single character from the beginning to form their personality.
The Forge of Vulcan is painted without being dominated by the prestige
of the same one admires, but that it came from his concern chiaroscuro
intensity, then put efforts to get the package without shadows, modeling
clear.

As for how to compose, layout and to group like shapes can be said Italian painting that must have
seemed designed to charm and delight the eye, while what he intended was to persuade, reaching the
limits of the possible in imitation of the real.

When the distance suitable for examining a picture, we embrace the view in a room or outside a meeting
of persons or a single figure, not only distinguish their appearance total to appreciate the
look and minutiae trifles, we need to find and fix the them particularly. This very simple observation
is the basis of the latest style of Velazquez which is in line to see the natural tone and all,
regardless of details and details, synthesis, which reached not only by virtue of its powers
which were very powerful, but helped by a steady job. In their time used black mirrors, the
reduction, the camera obscura, the TriGuard and other optical instruments to manage applications
to be much accustomed to seeing on the globe, together, as this view
the scene of Las Meninas, where given the extent of what must be the
painting: the image of reality that gives us the mirror, and this
is indeed Las Meninas, a painting copied from what the Kings were
when they Velázquez was portraying.

That contributed to the art of painting a new or which had been little attention, the air
brought not only between each member of the box, but between it and who observes. This condition
is born its undisputed superiority over all painters. No you know how limited the shots and spacing
distances, how to calculate the gradient and vanishing shadows, in
a word, how to get people and things surrounding environment that
surrounds them.

About Canvas nothing seems that this fact, from the appropriate view, the illusion is complete.

Much has been written, especially by foreigners, for the influence of Velázquez exercised, first
teachers, then other artists. Since then there have to be discounted Herrera the Elder, who was, as
a boy, too little time and whose harshness nothing hit him. At home in Pacheco, both in discipline
as their own accord, had to draw a lot, but now giving the choice of models humble fruit and utensils
vulgar animals, the first show of independence in others and Palomino tells us that it met Pacheco
from the beginning, no way to paint suit him so warm though full of learning, and here really do
not know what to admire more, the discreet audacity with the disciple away than their contemporaries
and therefore deserved greater respect, or the insight So the teacher sensed and tolerance allowed
dwell So those powers, opposed to theirs. Rare example and clearly demonstrate that teaching
is not usually more useful who is running but who knows best place to apprentice under conditions
conducive to the development from its own resources.

If the child is not seduced classicism Velázquez wise, but cold Pacheco, nor left dazzled by the magnificence
of Rubens, who probably saw on his visit to Madrid original painting and prints, and his enthusiasm
for Titian and Tintoretto, made him hesitate at the love that was in truth to be simple. Strengthened
in their beliefs were dismissed of the Italian classical and pagan,
with the portrait of Innocent X.

Who probably exerted some influence
on him was the Greco.

He could not know him, he died in 1614 and Velázquez left Seville until 1623, and it is believed
that El Greco was a Andalusia Velázquez or see his works here, because the impression that they
are causing is not reflected in the master's works until much later, comes, however, a period
is absolutely unquestionable. But this influence does not degenerate into imitation. The compositions
and Greco's figures are so true, especially in the expression of heads, which cause impression,
but reveal an exalted spiritualism that Velázquez did not participate: what at the extraordinary
and little-studied artist seduced him was the color. El Greco, was an extraordinary colorist,
enjoyed such strong contrasts that seem to reach dissonance, was so delicate harmonies that make possible
the most opposite effects; in it, tempered with astounding inks sour taste and is distinguished
mainly by a particular use of pure and white, violent, and muffled in gray shades that link,
fuse and sweeten it. These gray then appear in subsequent works of Velázquez, employees so discreetly
and so exquisite art that only painters and fans are able to careful observation, can distinguish.