 At one point, however, that discussion was souring in terms
that appeared in the Daily moderate some veiled insults against the inspiration and the editors
of Independence. Miguel was tried in the case of writing an article by answering these injuries,
it was a true prodigy of skill: devolvíanse more than all those of the enemy, but in a way so fine
and well concealed that it was impossible seek redress in the courts, and it was not easy either to
find grounds for a duel. The article was read in the writing and was warmly applauded. Unfortunately,
this time Mendoza was when he came to discover all the secret that her friend had stored for years.
To bring the evidence in the article, is authorized without consulting anyone change one of
its paragraphs getting another homegrown. By virtue of this unfortunate occurrence, what was
an incisive and thoughtful words, became rude and vicious insult. In As Miguel, reading the morning
newspaper, learned of the change, revolviósele bile, realizing that he could not produce fatal
consequences, was the drafting, and not finding Mendoza began to speak in front of their peers
what we have already seen in another chapter.

All his calculations were confirmed.

Not many hours passed without two gentlemen, The principal sponsors of the monarchy should
come to demand satisfaction of Independence personal. Mendoza, pale and trembling, replied that
he was not the author of the article, and promised that the next day's number would make a
correction. There are many who will pass word to Riverita, who hastily turned to writing, before
it had out these gentlemen. So it came, broke what had been agreed, said it was him the letter,
objected to publish any correction, and named by sponsors to Count Rivers and a fellow named
Meredith. Then he returned home, and that was when he showed Julita Maxi's letter.

The sponsors of the contenders took a whole day and used all the saliva
of throats to discuss the terms of the challenge.

The most difficult was the choice weapons. The Earl of Rivers, on the grounds that the sponsored
person was challenged, he believed he had right to choose them, and argued with great heat.
In fact, a strong emphasis on the subject, because it was knowing that the reporter thought moderate
choose the sword, not because you handle with great skill, but because, given its height and
bulk, should take advantage of the adversary. The godparents of the same tenacity that defended
their right, as the victim. At ten of the night had not yet been fixed. In one of his interviews with
Rios, Miguel, tired the end of such delay, asked him to accept any conditions it wanted to
put the contrary.

Under this, it was agreed that the match will be a sword pointed. Hour, seven am; site, Vistalegre
fifth in Carabanchel.

It was not home at night, passed word to his stepmother, warning that should ensure a friend sick
so that she and Julia were with care. Did not leave the casino, where he spent all afternoon
waiting for the outcome of the discussion of the sponsors. Up to two played in the morning
sitting, when the game broke up, he was walking a long time by one of the rooms; tired at the
end, he lay on a couch, and soon many minutes set it on a heavy sleeper and lethargic. The strain
on his nerves had been the last hours, was finished by a enervation. Slept half an hour, and during
it, dreamed a thousand absurdities: was now in a huge deserted palace, where some shade, which
was crossed, caused a strange terror that had never felt, now would break into a church with a
man he never met, and that turned out to be D. Valentine's uncle, Maxi, which, without knowing
how it turned into a cat and threw on him, clawed his neck: it turned out at sea, floating
like a buoy, at the mercy of the waves, without hope no one came to his rescue.

- Miss, Miss ...

- Hey!

What's up? - Said rubbing his eyes.

- Let's shut down.

- Well ... Do you know V. if you are in the playroom Mr. Meredith?

- I think so, sir.

He went over there and found her friend making good money.

At his entrance, he Merelo smiled happy and expansive, well clearly
understood at that moment no much care that Michael was going to kill.

In earnings was still a long time, until you see signs that luck
is twisted, got up and left as a skilled player the room hugging his
friend.

- What time is it, Miguelillo?

- The quarter to five.

-
Is there a mood, right? - Asked hugging him back warmly.

- Yeah,
man, yeah!

I have a mind and your money - said with a smile.

- Want to go to Dona Mariquita make chocolate?

- Come on.

While taking breakfast, Meredith, more and more joyful and loving,
he spoke of many things with amazing clarity, but especially fencing.

Actually this was the conversation that Then came the case, and understanding and gave him a
multitude of tips aimed all not to be hit by the head of the monarchy, but rather, from the average
the first time.

- No fakes, you see ... The blows should be rapid and decisive ... Him to let him Finte whatever
you want ... You still, serene, plumb ... to stop and answer anything else ... And fall in any
response. Well not to fall!

Miguel absentmindedly dipped in chocolate cake thinking God knows what. Close and of the six
left the establishment and straightened up the steps to Queen Street,
General Rios where he lived.

It was still pitch dark. When they arrived they saw the car at the door waiting and its owner.
Earl passed a message by the servant and not long in coming wrapped in a fur coat, the servant
came back with the Sabres. After greeting affectionately, rose into the carriage, and he started
rolling through the silent streets with harsh rattle.

When they came through the door of Toledo, starting at daybreak. Upon reaching Carabanchel it
was already clear. During the trip, the general and Meredith did not stop to talk politics.
The clear morning. To alight near the royal possession, was very cold: the trees, naked, had
their frame covered with frost. For the coach who saw the door, they realized their opponents had already
arrived, and went looking for them through the beautiful gardens the wealthy banker. Long before
reaching the designated spot, saw their black figures highlighting on the white carpet of frost.
Miguel, who until then had shown signs of being anxious and nervous, was suddenly calm, from
then until the end said a complete set of strange serenity that made highly pleased with their sponsors.
They greeted the opponents and the doctor, who should serve as the two contenders it was agreed:
Michael and moderate journalist made a slight inclination away head. Escogiose the ground,
which was a sand road better sheltered than the other by two high hedges of roses; midiéronse
sabers; despojáronse adversaries overcoats and Levites, remaining
with the vest, for the sake of the cold; colocóseles into place sword
in hand: at last, the Earl of Rivers, as the most respected person
there he was placed in the middle, arms extended with fingers taking
the tips of the two swords and walked away saying with strong intonation:

-
Gentlemen, meet VV. their duty.

The director of the monarchy was a sturdy strapping young man, thirty-four a thirty-six years
old, whose face was sad contrast on this occasion with the delicate and smallest of Rivera.
However, a few moments he realized it was not the shooter had a accompli. Miguel had thrown a few
seasons saber and foil: his opponent did not know apparently more than this ultimate weapon, it
had to be warned by the sponsors do not get up the left hand, and then place it behind your back.
But all this made him very dangerous, because instead of using the cutting edge, stretched at
every moment the tip of the blade, keeping Miguel was away. This began attacking vigorously
pulling the single hits arm, head and shoulder, his opponent, instead of stopping them, most often
broken stretching the point: in this way, three minutes into the fight became a messy assault foil. However,
the royalist journalist unwittingly threw a blow to the head; but had to be costly, because Michael
got up and answered so quickly, if not breaks time you slit your face. Since then he threw
more cuts. The fight lasted about fifteen minutes without result. Miguel, who was attacking, he
was fatigadísimo, therefore, that the did this out loud, and sponsors forced them to stay and
gave them ten minutes rest. During that time, Michael wore the coat and went to smoke a cigarette
on a bench as calmly, in appearance, actually quite irritated by this strange procedure its opposite.
Again started the fight, did not work either in quite some time, despite the fact that Miguel, increasingly
impatient, attacked furiously beating his sword to strike of his adversary, but it had iron fist,
and barely managed to tip away a moment. Eight or ten minutes to feel tired again, but dared
not declare shame. Loosened in the attack, making it increasingly weak and disorganized. Noticed
the contrary, it began to throw frequent thrusts: hardly had the strength to stop them. After the robust
reporter I broke the sword with theirs by force, and plunged the tip into the chest.

Miguel fell dropping a heavy blood flow. Everyone rushed to his aid.

The director of The Monarchy stammered a few words expressing his feelings, to which the injured could
not answer. The doctor made the first treatment and continuing act was transferred to the car,
that led to that company and their sponsors home.

XVII

The doctor's prognosis was reserved at first.

After twenty-four hours said his condition was serious but not desperate.

Julia had suffered several nervous breakdowns in the course of that day, in view of its dying
brother had caused deep and terrible impression: no human force to make him swallow any food
or medicine. The shock of his mother was also great, but trasformose sudden and harsh living
irritation, which fell victim to the sponsors, the doctor, the servants, and even the so Miguel
was found in a state of suffering: the brigadiera great concern was not that it be cured,
but knowing who had the blame for the misfortune was so intemperate and unrestrained, the Earl
of Rivers never set foot over the house, merely to ask every day by a servant the patient's
condition.

Fortunately, the danger came suddenly, after five days and was allowed to talk, but not much. Julia
never left his bedside. The mother was charged with receiving numerous visitors who came, and
certainly not tired of telling everyone the details of the disaster.

One afternoon, Julia was, as usual, sewing the bedside of the sick,
the which he slept.

- Listen, Julia - .-- waking suddenly said you
do me a favor?

- What?

- Read me the letter again ..... Maximina
The day that I was not to learn anything .....

Julia smiled with
an air of triumph.

In fact, for days he watched his brother some predisposition to melancholy
quite alien to his character often spend hours Eye static, motionless,
showing signs of being ambushed in a tangle of thoughts sad, annoyed
the company of friends and even came to dislike her sister I read
too long .-- Miguel Maximina think - you said it to him so thoughtful.

What is the mystery of love will escape a young seventeen years?
- Well, a little penis; and wheezing.

And so, as I thought the little girl.

- I look - answered hastily out of the bedroom.

Soon came to her in the hand, sat back and began to read it with great
calm, looking askance at the wounded.

At the end, he had moist eyes, staring at the ceiling and said:

- Poor child!

Julia put the letter on his chest, picked up sewing again and began to move the needle in silence.
After several minutes the patient again said:

- I will ask another favor ...

- Whatever you want ...

Take the
keys from my desk, they are there in the vest, opens the second drawer
left and pulls out a silver crucifix in it ... and bring it.

- Here
it is - said she had appeared a few moments, hanging on a piece of
string.

- This crucifix - said something blushing - Maxi gave me
when we parted: I broke cord, and hoping to buy another, I kept it
on the desktop.

- I have me one, do not need to buy it - said the
girl turning to leave the room and entering again instantly with a
blue cordoncito.

And without further ado took the crucifix from his hands Miguel, took out the old cord, put
the new and said casually:

- Do you want to hang it?

- Well - said Miguel getting red again.

At the time of crash, Julita his mouth to his ear and said graciously:

- If you had always brought, they would not have hurt.

And without waiting for an answer came bouncing. When he was in the hall, stood still suddenly,
thought for a moment, and in his face a smile of pleasure, he ran to his room and immediately started
writing continued.

The truth is that in the days that followed this scene, Julita said
worthy of plenipotentiary of the first order.

Few diplomats have been conducted with such skill.

He did not speak to his brother Maximina: but let him spend time alone, and when he was beside
him stood still and silent, waiting to reason that the thought of injured carry out his task,
and better alone than with help from anyone. From time to time, giving long detours, which made her
laugh, Miguel took out the tickets and chat Maximina telling for the hundredth time every
episode of their innocent love. She listened attentive, encouraged him to follow, but pocketing the
questions asked him about his plans.

This tactic seemed to excite more and more talkative of the patient, and even be warned in he wishes
to communicate certain something of more significance, but such desires could be seen contained
the reserve and the silence of Julia.

One morning, finally it came and sat down earlier than usual at his bedside. If Miguel had noticed
her, might have warned his restless little eyes and black glow singular
and in his hands some unusual tremor, but was so absorbed in his thoughts
and habitual melancholy, nothing found.

- Dime, Michael - said the
young woman lifting her head resolutely, - what will you do when you
get up?

- When I woke up ...?

What do you mean surprised ?..-- said.

- Yes, what will you do in your life?

- What do I know, girl? ... The usual.

There was a pause. Miguel hoped that his sister be given more thought: seeing that he did not,
he decided to speak.

- The truth is, Julia, I've thought a lot in these days about my situation,
not I find it so promising as at first sight. You and Mom you constitute
today my only family. With other relatives do not count for anything.
You will marry, of course. Mom ... you know how has genius, life at
her side can not be happy. On the other hand, I'm doing old (Julia
laughter). Do not laugh, but outside I do not feel old, inside need
and serenity, comfort, life catering horrifies me