 God will have to reward. We'll live, yes, yes. Look,
look: the day I can leave, we're all in the field, the child of a snack. Isidora make us food, and
spend a day very Agrabad, celebrating our recovery.

- Go, go - said the miser with effusion, forgetting that I had previously thought about the
field to which Martin would soon .-- Yes, and we had fun, and give alms all the poor that we
go .... What a relief I feel in my heart since I've done this profit! ... No, I praise him
.... For you see, it occurs to me that even I can make another much
higher.

What? ... Let's see, D. Francisquito.

- Well, it occurred to me ... is no idea now that I have some time
.... It occurred to me Isidora maintains that if the papers of his
estate and inheritance Aransis house, we trying to get that ....»

Isidora looked between stunned and amazed "that" Again? "Was all he said.

"Yes, yes you are right D. Francisco - said the poor consumptive, which was good, giving with
a crazy drunken optimism .-- .... will try That can not be so.

- I have the suspicion - Torquemada said, - that those who participated in the action again not
been really ready, or were sold to the Marquesa old .... What we see, we have to see.

- I in quantitative release the cold.

Isidora, my clothes look the time to bring my clothes, I want to get up .... How I feel right now!
Makes me want to get to paint, D. Francisco. As the child get out of bed I want to make the portrait.

-
Thanks, thanks ... are very good ... all three are very good, right? Come a hug, and ask God
for me. I have to go, because I'm an uneasiness that I can not live.

- Nothing, nothing, that the child is better, who is saved - the artist repeated increasingly
fired .-- If I see him, if I can not go wrong. "

Isidora prepared to leave with some money his way to the home loan, but the poor Artist assailed
him cough and dyspnea with greater force and had to stay. D. Francisco said goodbye with the
most affectionate expressions knew and taking the checkered came out with them under layer. On
the stairs I was saying, 'Wow, it's good be good ... I feel in my an internal thing, a comfort
...! If Martin will be right! If I put that piece good of my life ... We run there. I do not trust,
do not trust. The spendthrift has illusions consumptive in the last degree. But who knows?
Insurance is deceived about himself, and succeeds in everything else.

Where he goes is the niche soon .... But the dying often have double vision, and may have seen the improvement
of Valentin ... I am running, running. Much hinder me those damn pictures! No tyrant will
say now that I'm Jewish and because traits these are very few in pound! ... I will say that I collect
in paints, as these notes, for sale, I would not half of what I gave. Is not it worth more die
because here, when an artist is alive, damn if anyone makes, and as they die of misery or tired,
put him in the clouds, we call genius and whatnot ... I think not never came to my house. How
far is, being so close! "

Rose from three in three steps the stairs of his house and opened the door for Aunt Roma, shooting
point-blank words: "Lord, the child appears to be a little calmer." D. hear Francisco and
drop pictures and hugged the old woman, was all one. The rag was crying, Worse and gave three
kisses on the forehead.

Then it was straight to the patient's room and looked from the door.

Rufina rushed at him and said: "It is from noon quieter ... See? It seems that the poor sleeping
angel. Who knows. May be saved. But I dare not to hope, lest they lose this afternoon.

Torquemada was beside himself in shock and anxiety.

He was the man with nerves strained, unable to sit still for a moment, as soon wanting to
lie to mourn as burst out laughing. Came and went in the dining room to the bedroom door, from
this to his office and the office to the cabinet. In one of these flips, Aunt called to Rome,
and messing with in the bedroom she made her sit down, and said:

-
Aunt Rome, do you believe that the child be saved?

- Lord shall be
as God wills, and nothing else.

I've asked him last night and this morning to the Virgen del Carmen,
with such devotion that can not be over, crying her eyes and drool.

Not me see how I have eyes?

- What do you ...?

- I have hope, sir. While it is not dead, there must be hope, though they say caregivers what they
say. If the Virgin commands, doctors are going to make daggers .... Other: Last night I fell
asleep praying, and I thought that the Virgin was down to delantito me, and I said yes with his
head ... Another: you have not prayed?

- Yes, woman, what questions do! I am going to tell you something
important.

You'll see. "

He opened a vargueño, whose mounted drawers keep papers and jewels
of great value had come into his hands as security for loan-sharking,
some were not even own, others, yes.

A while he was opening boxes, and to Aunt Roma, who had never seen anything like this, it
her eyes dazzled with the splendor of fish that came out of the box.

They were, she said, emerald nuts, throwing pale rays diamonds, rubies and pomegranate seeds,
and fine gold, gold for the best law, worth hundreds of thousands .... Torquemada, after open
and close cases, he found what he wanted: a huge pearl, the size
of a hazelnut the beautiful east, and holding it between your fingers,
showed it to the old.

"How about this Pearl, Aunt Rome?"

- Beautiful indeed. I do not understand.

Worth billions. "Nah, you Green?

- As this pearl - Torquemada said triumphantly, - is for Mrs. Virgen del Carmen. For it is, if
my son gets good. I'll show you, and get to know you intended, to tell him. If I tell you, sure
I do not believe it.

- D. Francisco (looking with deep shame), you are wrong with the gourd. Tell me, his life, why would
that requilorio the Virgen del Carmen?

- Here, to put it on her birthday, on July 16. So little is not nice this! It was a wedding
of her Excellency the Marquesa de Telleria. Believe it, as it is small.

- But, D. Francisco, you think that Virgin is going to concede ...! Paice bobo ... For that Piaz
anything!

- Look East. You can make a pin and put it on her chest, or the Child.

-
Lightning!

Valiente case makes the Virgin of pearls and pindonguerías! ... Believe me, sell it and give the
money to the poor.

For you see, not a bad idea - said the miser guarding the jewel .-- You know a lot. I will follow
your advice although, if I tell you the truth, that to give to the poor is to be nonsense,
because the give them spend it on liquor. But I'll fix it so that the money from the pearl
will not end up in the taverns ... And now I want to talk about something else. Put a lot of attention:
Do you remember when my daughter, walking one evening outside with
Quevedo and Morejón, came to rest over there, where you live, to the
Tejares of Aragon, and entered into your hut and came telling me in
horror, the poverty and saw there?

Do you remember that? Rufina contour your home is a den, an adobe made filth, old boards and
sheets of iron, the thatched roof and dirt, I said that neither you nor your grandchildren
you have bed and you sleep on a pile rags; that pigs and chickens criáis with garbage people
are there, and you animals. Yes: Rufina told me this, and I should have you no shame and you
had it. I should give you a bed, it has served us well, I loved my wife, I want to children,
and you come here so many years that we've ever stolen or the value of a sad nail. Well, if not
then I ever thought you succor, now. "

Saying this, he approached the bed and gave him a sharp slap with
both hands, as that is usually given to shake the mattresses to make
the beds.

"Aunt Roma, come here, play here. See what softness. See this wool mattress on top of a mattress
Spring? It is for you, for you, for you to rest your bones hard and I sprawled to indulge. "

The mean expected an explosion of gratitude for such a splendid gift, and already seemed to be
hearing the blessings of Rome aunt, when it came out a very different level. His cobwebbed
face dilated, and those with eye ulcers which opened at the site of eyes, came a glow of embarrassment
and fear, as he turned his back on the bed, heading toward the door.

"Remove, remove there - he said - go with what happens ... Mattresses give me that neither not
even fit through the door of my house ... And although they fit ... Lightning! A note that I tantismos
years lived hard as sleeping on a queen, and these would hit the softness not eyes. God forbid
that I should lie there. You know what I mean? I want to die in peace. When comes the ugly side
of me find it without a speck, but with the awareness and the jets
silver.

I do not want the mattress, that within them is your idea ... because here sleeps you, and at night,
when it gets to ponder the ideas they get through the fabric inside
and docks, and there will be like bugs when no cleaning.

Ray with men, and that I wanted to fit! ...

Drove the old lady in a graphic manner, expressed so well, with the moving of the hands and
the flexible fingers, how cheap bed is defiled their vile thoughts, Torquemada could hear
with real anger, ingratitude amazed, but she, firm and surly, despising
the gift continued: "Well go a jackpot that I liked, Holy God ...
Pa I sleep in it!

Or that he was silly, D. Francisco. So that leaves me at midnight all the worms of the ideas
from you, and my goal for the ears and eyes, turning crazy and giving
me a bad death ...!

Because, I know I ... I do not gives you .... there Inside, there, are all his sins, the war which
makes the poor, his stinginess, revenues that breast, and all the numbers that walk the Seseras
to affix money .... If I sleep there, at the hour of death I would leave on one side and the
other about toads with a big mouth, a nasty soap opera that I enroscarían in the body, a ugly
hell with mustache and bat ears, and I would catch with each other to take dragged into hell.
Go to the ray, and beware their mattresses, I have a bed bags made of cloth, with a blanket
over him, which is the glory of God .... And would like you .... That really is rich for a good sleep
....

- Well, gimme, gimme, Aunt Roma - said the miser with grief .-- If my child is saved, I agree him
to sleep in the rest of my life, and to eat no more than the crap you eat.

- In good times and sunny. You now want to put a fist in the sky. Ay, sir, to every its clothing
page! You will feel that as the donkey earrings. And all this is because They are in trouble,
but if the child gets good, you will be more bad to Holofernes. Already going to look old,
look the best day is put in front of the face bare, and it it does not give you the thymus.

- But where do you get you stamps, Surat - Torquemada said angrily, grabbing her by the neck
and shaking it - where do you get you that I am wrong, nor have I ever been?

- Let me, Let me go, I wiggle, I'm no tambourine. See that I am older than Jerusalem and I've
seen a lot of world and I know you since I wanted to marry with the Silvia. Well advised her
not to marry ... and announced the hunger that had happened. Now that is rich does not remember
when I started to win. I do remember, and that was me Paice yesterday when I had the beans to
the wretched of Silvia and all you had locked and the poor was decomposed,
trashijada and barking from hunger.

As if it's not for me, brought him some egg ocultis, had died a hundred times. Do you remember
when he got up you at midnight to register the kitchen to see if he found some stuffing, the Silvia
had hidden to eat alone? Do you remember when he found a piece of ham pastel sweet and half I
gave to me cas de la Marquesa, and I brought him to the Silvia Zampara for it herself, without
giving you not so well? Remember that the next day were you made a lion, and when I knocked me down
and I was kicking?

And I I was angry, and came back every day will bring something to
the Silvia.

As you were the one who was to purchase, we will not pilfer, and did not have a sad unhappy
blouse to wear. Was a martyr, D. Francisco, a martyr, and saving you money and giving it to
peseta hard a month! And meanwhile, did not eat more raw roe with dry bread and salad. Thanks I started
with you what I gave in rich houses, and one night, remember? suit boar bone that you were throwing
into the pot six consecutive days, until it was drier than his soul
Picture Rating.

I had no obligation to bring anything: it was for The Silvia, whom I took in her arms when Sena
was born out of Rufina, the passageway of the Dog. And what to you was furious that I keep those
things to it and are not given to you, lightning!

As if I were you required to fill the belly, dog, rather than dog .... And tell me now, do you ever
given a real value?

She did what I did could, to the sly, but you, the very capigorrón, what has given me? Crooked
nails, and the sweepings of the house. Come along and farce hippie
now!

... If you are brave to do.

- Look, all the old demons - Torquemada said angrily, - out of respect
to your age will not I bust a kick.

You're a liar, a devil, with his whole body full of lies and entanglements.

Now I give to discredit me after more than twenty years been eating
my bread. But if you know, pouch of poison, if what you said nobody
is going to believe: neither up nor down! The devil is with thee,
and thou art cursed among all the witches and scarecrows which is
in heaven ... I mean, in hell. "

IX

The man was beside himself,
delirious, and without casting to see the old was gone to good step
in the room, went on as before it was. "Scarecrow, mother the cobwebs,
if I catch you, you'll see .... And discredit me! "I went from one
part to another in the narrow bedroom, and from there to the cabinet,
as if he chased shadows nodding against the wall some so strong that
echoed throughout the house.

It was late afternoon, and darkness
reigned in and around the unhappy miser, when he heard clear and unlike
the cry of a peacock that Valentine was at the height of his high
fever. "And said it was better! ... Son of my soul .... We have sold,
we have been deceived. "

Rufina came crying into the room of the
beast, and said, 'Oh, Dad, what has been unwell; but what unwell!

-
That from Quevedo junk! - Shouted Torquemada taking a fist to his
mouth and bite Rabies .-- I'm going to get the bowels .... He has
killed us.

- Dad, by God, do not be like .... Do not rebel against
God's will .... If He has ....

- I do not rebel, daggers! I do not
rebel. You do not want, I do not want to give to my son because is
mine, blood of my blood and bone of my bones ....

- Resign yourself,
resign yourself, and have compliance - said the daughter, a sea of
??tears.

- I can not give me the desire to resign