 The mercy that I have, ... tions! I key in the forehead. "

Madrid, February 1889.

END OF THE NOVEL

FEATURE ARTICLE

I

"Enough of contemplations. Stop conspiracies. Enough of weakness. The time has come energies. We
believed that the facts as clear as in the minds of everyone, be presented at last in his
awful gravity foolish in the eyes of power, who heads public affairs. Judging that any obfuscation,
however great, must have its limits, we believed that the Government I could not resist the evidence
of his discredit, we believed that deposing own stubbornness all the powers that do not rely
on opinion, be resolved at last to enter more clear and safe way, if not regarded as the best of
the amendments on leave public life. We expected restless before the great evils which afflict
the fatherland expected silent, while knowing the day and more and more serious errors "in
this senseless Government. We waited until the last, until the scandals have been intolerable.
We silent, silent as the grave was not necessary.

There is no hope. We must not hide the truth to the country, and we would be failing the first
of our duties, if a moment they continue in this attitude. Our patriotism impels us to act in
this way, and as know that public opinion is the only ....»

At this point, the author of the article is stopped. The inspiration, so to say, it is had concluded,
and as if the effort to create the preceding paragraphs occur fatigue in his imagination, he
stopped, intending to continue, when the various ideas that suddenly and came in droves to their
imagination soar.

So poor was his understanding that there is no news that good things never occur, it should
not be taken by such their lucubrations soporific about the origin of the powers public and the
balance of social forces was also short, wayward, for ever could purchase or shadow method. Excelled
in the digressions, and when he was working on developing either a thesis, there was no human
power that made specific to the case, preventing their breaks, and
the field of history and into the jungle of morality, and the intricacies
of archeology or numismatics.

For all these fields, mountains and hills running complacent and elated the imagination of the
author on the bottom, when the logical thread interrupted of it, and forgotten about it and
foiled the plan, occupied his mind, seizing her in a run down, violent and as a surprise, the intrusive
ideas that has merit.

They came from all objects of all illusions, all the memories, a thousand various sources that
flowed at once an endless stream. Vinolé thought I do not know What piece of history, which
linked the image of a bishop of Astorga, so stubborn a swashbuckling
soldier cleric.

She remembered the towers he had seen in Mozarabic an ancient city, and at the same time offered
the view lakes and gardens, not without afease this show suddenly some animal form portly, disgusting
ugliness. Tan he was soon representing the lines of a romance that had long read in yellow and wrinkled
codices, as was the distant sound of organ music, sweet and mysterious.

With much abandonment is given to imagination roam this comfortable, loose and free, without
dry locks reasoning, no one will sign the hold or the facing to develop hardly the literary product,
one, of course, of special shape and texture!

The imagination of the poor journalist had managed to escape in those moments when article
had not yet passed their childhood, and had only small number of items. The imagination of the
writer declined, after running from here to there, with the joyous concern of a bird, seeing the rods
broken his cage, he escapes and flies to all parts without noticing any, was carried out in the
end, was set regularized little by little.

Among the few items of Article interrupted shortly after birth sedated his first idea, come the lines,
the shadows and lights of an immense Gothic cathedral. Grow its beam columns, stained soft brown
tinge, up to an enormous height, spreading then the twisted stems to form the vaults. Descend
from the ceiling, as if they were suspended and almost invisible elastic cords, lamps or, their
blinking lights not enough to overshadow the diaphanous color of the glass, which filled with
saints and figures shining seem to communicate with the sky inside the temple. Thousand figures
are standing on the wall as if an invisible hand carvings in the stone with supernatural promptly,
and lush flora portentously grows along the columns, holding in their cups grotesque animal or implausible,
that appear to have been caused by unknown pathogen in the bowels stone. The statues smashed
on the walls multiply, displayed in rows, series, in endless cycles, and they are all rigid
and stiff in their faces portraying boredom Limbo or the calm of Paradise. Alternate with them symbolic
beings created by Christian statuary, and seem sacrilegious abomination of paganism and theology.
Dragons, sibyls, biblical monsters to represent abstractions devised subtle genius of the Middle
Ages, by merging the remains of the old mermaids and centaurs show its heterogeneous membership,
in which the human figure is attached to the rarest forms of the fantastic zoology, and religion,
and heraldry, invented by drunk sculptors. Sort are on the walls coats of bright inks on sumptuous
tombs, in which sleep the sleep of marble archbishops and constables, princes and warriors, wielding
swords or staffs. Dogs and lions that support your feet, seem to pay rapt attention to every
rumor in the temple sounds. Shines in the bottom of the altar rich stew, resembling huge ember curd
with tiny gold angels and cherubs that flutter burning in the bosom of that cloud glow, as
if the combustion give them life. Graves, bearded saints, aligned with composure own celestial
circles appear in the center of the great apocalypse gilded wood
finishing machine so portentous a colossal Christ, whose arms, which
opening made by the body aches, it seems they are going to strengthen
in supreme embrace all the human lineage.

Prayers feel faint and confused, not interrupted by a pause, as if the atmosphere Inside the building,
hit a vibration inherent to its physical essence, a modular endless monologue. Everything
is quiet and respect. The clarity, shadows, sculptural forms, the elegance of line, the hidden
sound that is produced by the oscillation believe architectural mass, the sound, which recalls
the breath of some mysterious spirit, who lives in the large cavities of stone, the variety of
objects, the majesty of the tombs, the idealism of the effects of light, this causes stupor
and recollection. You think of God and tries to measure the immensity of the idea that existence
has given to so beautiful set, feel the greatest admiration for the
times we had faith, heart and art to express his strong belief inexhaustible
symbols ....

Stood the author declined in ecstasy contemplating on
his mind these beauties of art and faith, when a noise of steps first,
the unusual appearance of a man later was brought abruptly to reality,
making stare at the pages of article background that lay forgotten
on the table.

Being in front of him was a monster, a monster. Aborrecíale in those moments that if he came to
give death, and he inspired more awe than if it were Satan himself.

The monster looked at the author in a way that made him tremble, saying words reached out which
terrified the unhappy, if they were anathema to the Church or sentence of inquisitors. Trembled
in his seat, and looked erizósele hair in anguish and bathed in cold sweat the broken lines articulejo
incorrect.

II

That monster, or in other words, you little barbarian, came covered with sweat, as if had a long
career and precipitous, and the same face that his tattered, filthy clothes seemed tinged with
a slight dark varnish. The ink flowed from his pores. Differed of a coal soot that his was
more consistent, as if from the inside out. Entirely equal to a Cyclops, if he had two eyes, was
just one of the most powerful levers modern civilization, he had received from Providence the
high mission of moving the handle of a printing press, giving birth every day millions upon
millions of words. Living most of the day in the basement where the civilizing machine works, that
man was found with her was part of its mechanism, and the ingenious frame, but inert, pure
work of mathematics, became the impetus to be smart when moving monster wheels, shafts and cylinders
as being motivated by hidden bodies life. Both were enthusiastic, were confused, she convulsed
and rhythmic creaking speed; him, breathless and full of sweat, curves and more curves describing
his arm, she getting the paper to throw away after having spread on the surface world of ideas,
and he singing a song to make your job more bearable. Hours and hours passed in this way: the
machine, imitation of nature, playing in millions of copies same type and the same way, man,
determining the driving force, similar to breath of life in higher animals. When either be completed
in this manner, difficult supposing was disunited, and after admiring the stunning result
of the combination of two elements would not have been easy not say which one was smarter.

But
this man played still other equally important duties aimed to spread lights. What would the gross
human thought if that did not have the mission to fix printing ink, making it thicker or lighter
depending on the intensity you want to to print?

When copies of the newspapers had been brought to light by the machine; when it stopped and was
tired of grinding his delivery as if he screws ache, when the newborn specimens, wet, sticky and
smelly, were stacked on a large table, the folding monsters lovingly put their belts, giving
them the way that circulate throughout the roundness of the earth, taking the idea to the most
remote regions, giving life that exists, the carrying the mail, weighed, the franking tratábalos
with the love of a father and thought he was just so wonderful author.

Not limited to this office: he put posters, delighted in dressing of colorful corner of Madrid,
thus contributing to one of the great things our century, which is advertising. And if he had
a special art to make poultices to the streets, not the better their
ability to throw their backs huge reams of paper, back in inwardly
considered as food, feed or forage of the machine.

Well, I also say was irreplaceable for loading molds or forms of letters full of challenge fists
strongest men, and also assign him to fetch and carry original and testing mission filed on
time to meet the young author of whom I speak, and say that coming to the article, adding that
much needed to be stopped and hand over hand Mr. typesetters.

The plight of the author is not to paint, explained here and see the horror, indignation, trasudores
chills and the presence of the young man of the press gave him. It was necessary end of the article,
and before it was completed, it was necessary to follow, difficult undertaking colossal to
be the hapless writer's imagination to 100,000 miles of it. The unfortunate sent the boy to
return within a short time, he took the pen and picking up his ideas
best he could, after many scribbles on a drawing papelejo and staring
at the ceiling four times and the role many others, wrote the following:

"...
And as we know that public opinion is the only rule of politics: as
we know it Governments are not driven by public opinion to make their
own ruin ruin the country, we decided today to raise our voices to
indicate danger.

The main error Government, it must be said very high, is its commitment to destroy our institutions
traditional to perform a complete abolition of the past. Are the achievements of civilization
inconsistent with the story? Ah! The Government was trying to remove the remains of faith of our
parents, that strong faith that we see exact expression in the magnificent cathedrals of the Middle
Ages, which remain and survive to the amazement of generations. A petty age this! Ah! How to
magnify the mood to contemplate the wonderful works that raised religious feeling! "The spirit
that plays so should not be kept in society, through proactive action
of the governments responsible for ensuring great and timeless principles?

"

No sooner finished this paragraph, which seemed to our author Pearl, was interrupted and felt
a tremendous blow on the shoulder. He looked up and saw heaven! to an unwelcome friend who
had the bad habit of insinuating giving great accolades and pinching.

Although the journalist was quite intimate with the newcomer, at the time it was more unpleasant than
if he saw him as a sheriff responsible for arrest him. I looked away Item view, interrunpido again,
and waited patiently the words of his buddy.

III

Which was extremely heavy, and had a look so similar to the astonishment unchanged of the statues
that came to see him and hear him to mind the solemn speeches of the sphinxes or the wishes
of any oracle or fortune-teller.

Her voice was low and in a tone somewhat cavernous leaving no living in harmony with the yellow
of his face and long hair what we both sides of his head fell. It was also so gloomy in character
and in their habits, that there was reason to those who had been called undertaker.

With the unfortunate author who we have been dealing with, this man was old friendship: both
had run many adventures together and not separate scrambled sailed the bays of journalism to run
aground on the reefs of an office, where he soon throw ministerial change, and embarked again
in the press in search of social position. Comunicábanse misfortunes and pleasures, starting with
one another as brothers, and helped in their financial crisis, making mutual loans, and turning one against
the other large letters, payable ninety days after the Judgement.

The dismal, especially, was a great Minister of Finance, and solve all your troubles by a great
rush in the pocket the young writer who had, among other qualities, to despise the vain riches.