 Now I'm telling you now that last time I will make my words come to you, even from
afar, God will forgive me if I am happy to remember my loss, not for weeping and wailing sorry, but
to delight and honor Me with their memory. All the austerity of my life for twenty years, my first
love, gently preserved in memory with religious zeal and pure as the sacred fire smoldering in
the ashes of ara, and my pride and respect due to my name that I have been honest and chaste
decorum midwife, all faded and died in my soul to see your face and hearing your words, perhaps
from the first time I hablastes. Do not think I obfuscate, which blinded me and I did not understand
from the moment the intensity and ugliness of my sin and the almost irresistible impulse fouling
that I wore. Appeared clear in my mind that I'd love inspired, abominable and how did the great
difference in our age, that to become more self on your wife or girlfriend, to provide, in relation
to you for spiritual way, the chaste mother nature clean.

"I, however, knew not resist.

It was my passion so intense that not only useless, stupid and vulgar I found the resistance. Even
in the same delay, I saw some mean and rude appeared in my mind as cold artifice and studied
prudery of woman who longs to sell more faces its niceties and enhance more than just the price
and worth of favors delaying the grant them. No wonder then that, due and rendered me fall
into your arms of course without defending, and I give my heart and be all yours.

"Had I wanted to gloss over the slope before it had felt to you, imagining vivid portrait of
the man whom I had loved in my early youthful days, and who had wept long years after his death.
But I soon discarded this idea, considering you coward hypocrisy with which my understanding, more
subtle liar who was trying to mitigate the powerful vicious attempt at my will. No: I do not
like D. Jaime, but a thousand times better than him. His image etched in my soul, not faded and
disappeared well did your image affixed to it, a seal and mark of slavery that makes it yours
forever. Neither fear of slander, nor the hateful thoughts to yourself that could despising
and me for a light, nothing stopped me. The force, however, was not enough to stop the edge of the
abyss and to save the fall, has earned me then to physically break loop, to run away from you,
to get up hurt and penitent and seek refuge in this retreat. I could not be rightfully yours.
Living in any other way at your side, have been scandal shame and embarrassment. The wise advice
of my confessor, who dominate the blush ignited and burned my face, I showed the wound of my
soul that heal, and balsam of our holy religion which he poured into the wound, gave me encouragement
and spirit to break chains that had me trapped, to turn away from me and then make the determination
I've taken.

"God in his infinite mercy will forgive myself.

So I fail to not. Now I turn to you, come to my mind, the turban and full of bitter delight those
moments drunken love and total abandon that I was all for you and I thought it was you all mine.

"I'm
Determined to restore with prayer, Christian meditation and penance awful hard Under ruin
my disbanded.

I am humbled and contrite, and yet not feel in me repentance. To my mind flock ideas and reasons,
if not to justify, to excuse in part my sin, and when not to absolve, to mitigate the sentence
that condemns me.

"A crazy look indifferent to what I tell you. Despite your modesty, you must believe me. Something
supernatural, heaven no doubt in origin, but twisted and perverted after through hell, has been
the mainspring of my crush and my sudden weakness. I sense, to see and hear, failed to explain
the strange manner of prophetic revelation what profound conviction that faith and hope in
what your future secure and sovereign destinations. Yes, I have loved you only in your person the
dashing young man and flourishing in all the freshness and freshness of their age first.