 

Among the crowd of those beautiful oriental gay, and damask cushions are Zaida was Mary or,
as the Moors named it jealous, and she looked at a stem of their past kings. Mary only neglected
to shave of his eyes, and in contempt as idle or because Fiasa more in the power of their own.

At the bottom, and separated entirely from what they call heaven on earth young men were decorated
with rich embroidery and all the Eastern ataujía.

The Anafil and drums, the drums sounded albogues and joyfully around the room: some youths and had
shown his skill testing assaults and dances that were both of naturalness
Arabic, Spanish and of gallantry.

Mary's cousin, Muley to the Moors and the Spanish Don Fernando, as if disdaining employed in
such a frivolous pastime, pull up a serving of the colonnades, not thinking but in their projects,
and only seemed to assist in the zambra by the eagerness with which shed sometimes seen in
the beautiful Mary.

The youth, winning by his wealth to those around him, stood out as gentle stature, towering
over the advantaged at the very top of head.

For this purpose we came to the door broken, and there found two Castilian and spoke:

- No doubt, friend John, but this zambra has more appearance than usual and ordinary. It sounds
that a principal boy has landed at the bays of the coast, coming from Barbary, and that is
this good coming feast and Zambra.

A faith to faith that is not yet and an old Christian, and how are
they to come if not called?

And how are they to be called, if the disbelievers want to be alone for their practices and
machinations? Come on, brother, you as sheriff, and I as a person of authority from the people, we
must give account of all the Mayor of our City.

And the party, and repairing the soldier, said the other:

- This Cigarral all assaults and all are reported: it is, and will receive a thousand wonders, in the
absence of other witchcraft, or the mob may provide good skills your mutt.

Meanwhile, the spoiled entered, followed by his dog, and not ward
off the evil eye and sobreojo that many looked at him, dropped their
sticks and sat on the floor between the inferior people family, putting
on his knees trench the dog, who settled with great composure on his
legs, rested on the neck by lifting the front paws, lifting ears and
looking carefully at his benefactress Mary, who greeted his best,
moving softly tail.

Perhaps the grateful dog had greeted most notably from a distance and despite of the party, if
not feel the hand of his master, who sent him as quiet accounts and silence, and then everything
was quiet.

Mary smiled softly when they saw the soldier he pleased with that
distinction, down head humbly bowed so courteously as and when raising
it met the Muley view, looking at him with eyes of scorn and a poorly
suppressed anger, but the soldier, with great irritation of some and
the greatest wonder of all, did not flee his face so fierce look,
rather the evil caused to his gesture and seducer.

Perhaps the zambra been troubled from that point, except for Mary,
leaving beat from time to beg and plead so much, do not press the
guitar and sing beautifully, so soft and expressive, as follows:

ROMANCE

In
a spirited sorrel, between brave and brambles, fleeing, fleeing Jarifa,
group goes with his Zaide.

      
    The horse is happy, van happy
    lovers: the horse, and go
    jumping; two, to go to enjoy themselves.

      
    
    Ride the two, ride between dark
    and brambles, whoever walks with theft uses of hidden paths.

      
    
    Go around the beach escape
    the hatred of a father to lie in a skiff Tlemcen and repaired.

      
    
    And reach the highest peak,
    and the seas are blue, are already rocking the candles think and
tread the ship.

      
    
    Look, look, said the Moor;
    Look, my darling, come what inquiring our tracks Algarve riders.

      
    
    Fear not, she replies; Fear not,
    my love, my Zaide, that I attend a charm here I pay the two to save
us.

      
    
    It is a wonderful bar, fadado
    with such fate, two that he adhere some are invisible.

      
    
    Let's try, Zaide, let's try;
    we use magic arts, and their senseless research our executioners
were tired.

      
    
    Unfold the strip Jarifa, He
    is tied with her lover when ready, oh, how awful!, see a snake loose.

      
    
    The fiery dragon wraps, The black bunched
    up nooses chest to oppress feet and captivate.

      
    
    Wary that such bar made to
    the parent Jarifa so there is death where their tastes seek.

      
    
    Comes the king angry, vibrating
    the bloody cutlass He opened the chest and Jarifa and neck divided
Zaide.

      
    
    The uproar in the congratulations
    and cheers was great, the instruments echoes and redoubled their
blessings showered on maiden so beautiful, so crowned and flatter
accomplished with few skills the senses and captivate the soul.

The soldier could not resist the admiration as he moved this room
and that wealth beyond his imagination gave all the best and richest
things in the world he had seen, and to himself said:

"These Moors
give them water, and vegetables will draw you a rock, give them vegetables,
and give you a garden and gardens and there I will raise an idea where
it is alhambra you fancy the asking.

They say that their paradise is only Verjel but in the meantime, and what can happen, their homes
but not so many havens. Disbelievers! And we always Astros without a tree where the shade and
enjoy the freshness!

As he imagined it, a loose youth danced in the middle of the most gallant siege possible. Struck
the ground so gently, that it seemed that slid by on the pavement, or some invisible strings holding
him up and swung him to the sound of music. With the right hand showed a adufe mixed with
colored ribbons, and crimping thousand babes and sounding bells and
cymbals, corresponded, and alive, and smoothly, harmony of the musicians.

Sometimes the dancer, in the midst of his career, passed and repassed slightly adufe below the
shoulders, threw him desperately sometimes by men, and as if it were tied to the will of the
boy, he always came into the hands clean and gallant. The eyes were lost in so many wheels,
bias and turns, unwittingly they all followed the rhythmic movement of that danced, and all still in
their seats, still cheating fantastically, believing each to be the dancer, not real and certainly
that had dance.

Each one of that contest, as beautiful as suitors, was given to content of all samples met, those
of his thanks and those of their skills, and always cheering cordially all the soldier as if
he had more pleasure in it, as well as collecting those visual elements arcaduz shrunk by one
eye only, and it also crippled and sickly. But it also had to take public square and amphitheater,
as there are those who divined the good graces of the mutt, jokes
and jingles master recounting all They urged the spoiled to amuse
the party, unable to excuse it from time to pray, and demand and profit
that could have, and for some idea that bubbled in his head.

"

The fact is that everything was done on that advice and consultation Lope ticket black and to see
how it could get a real collection, as and the desire of its owner.

According to the fervor and earnestness with which the soldier drew this plot, it seemed to have some
close obligation that led him to it, but, they want it to be, it is true that requested the
vihuela, agreed and after the clapping and giving your mutt, it began
to jump in a good way and love to play for the school most extreme
in the world, was the King of France, the greetings to the Emperor,
kissing the most beautiful plants, which were pointing to wedding
and other pleasantries of that opinion.

In all the graces of mutt looked a preference noted for its benefactress Mary having no back where
it displayed no submission or happy when it passed the beautiful Moorish. When marked by the most
beautiful one stood attention to it, because each in its imagination approved the same, and it
was easy to imagine that the mutt was already trained in the charm, but when also said to be
a wedding, and as wanting to escape it as looking for another on whom to signaling, and not
finding her, turned to Mary, and finally said, then left the mutt
groaned so pitiful, that bristled hair to the contest.

But this impression was fleeting as lightning in calm night; well spent as it was entirely
forgotten in the memory.

The soldier, calling it the dog, he continued:

- Now, don mutt, you can be a messenger of love, a profession that requires skills test and
degree of loyalty, care trocar brakes, which are often neglected so pitiful come big mistakes,
and it should be your good name safe charge and responsibility. Take the baton, and duration of your
trip as both music and lyrics of your master.

And this saying, and passing his hand over his mouth as if you put an something in it, and
then bending his ear to commission something, let it go, holding it to the vihuela, which,
deftly strumming, singing with her.

Motet

Messenger run and see, runs and looks ready and cunning, and absent
knight Bring his love sincere ticket.

          
          Not far away,
    very faithfully, much more
    faithful to your advice:
          Looking
          forward reflections
    of a carnation left from vases and mirrors.

          
          
    The mutt running frantically
    around the revelers, took
          three laps,
          and the
    third, ceased when the mantra of his master, jumping in front of
Mary, causing caresses her with his witticisms and games will not
rest until those white foam hands and ermine compliments on her figure
should come dog, and then, as if it had a superior instinct nature
(much can art), dropped it and deposited in the hands of the maid
the ticket that many anxieties and aspirations had started to different
people.

Mary, who very well understand the intelligence of singing, and that not a single word of it let
go of his memory, seeing the signs about dog discrete, recalling that at that same time he was
should have news of his absent, feeling at that point a paper in his hands, and, above all, feeling
up in his soul a thousand hopes for happy and taste, could not resist
taking that message, and what is more, take unawares and without giving
anyone suspected.

The storm reached its discretion would have raised if the stormy conditions in the first,
and naturally suspicious of the man, and hatred of all Moriscos to their conquerors, had come
to join a suspicion, checked the point with the complete proof of a ticket.

Muley and Don Fernando (for either of these two names are not given to nor detracts from the rigorous
and proud of their status) remained with the soul, not with the eyes, the whole course of that
farce, and if it is true that if you did not see the pressing of the ticket at the mouth of the
mutt, not the pass such deposit into the hands of Mary, always suspected there was something
that was hidden shared care.

For this reason, and out of so much uncertainty, put in work to the point suggested the thought
that his wary suspicion.

- Mary - he said to the beautiful cousin - today is the day of your birth, and this time midnight,
at which time many prodigies often verified. The daughters of our family is well known that in
this day and at the same time can take some wonders of the invisible
world or cure any condition you want and as rebellious as wise and
powerful formulas they use.

Well, do not do anything miraculous, but test (this should move it to your natural compassion)
test, again, such power in the disabled poor, and now that, while old Christian, attends our joys,
remove them, as well as charity, rather than in a bucket would like to give theirs.

Muley spoke and all were of his opinion, and there he was praying to Mary and Zaida, as each named according
to which more or less affection for the holy religion, and many called for both of names.

Mary
honestly disgusted that endeavor, but the prayers were so, the object is presented as by so pious
and praise both more expensive and came and went, at last, giving
and rendered, and relying on the refusal of the soldier, who would
not admit as old Christian such practices, said:

- Since my taste
despite beating habréme asking me what I do not yet lend to do so
if the same soldier will not let me not silent, but I hear it myself
the appeal of his mouth.

- Hermosa Maria - glad the soldier replied
- not just want you to take part in this relief mine, but I beg humbly
as possible, although I have not much such practices, in exchange
I give such charm to the beauty and such strength and power to the
intercession of an angel, only that you do them hand in it and tell
me to cure and frank and free of infirmity and blindness.

This hearing Mary arose between troubled and sorrowful, and unfolding
a ribbon, passed it knee maimed soldier, one that rested on the mud
of wood, and also telling silent about such verses or payroll, then
tied the two ends of the bar, saying:

- Begging and your knee as
you crimp the two ends are linked, and say this and up the soldier,
throwing the Palitroques of the knee, and repeat aloud miracle miracle,
was all a point.

Everyone was preoccupied, some doubted, the more is claimed in the truth of those practices,
and Mary, removed to the side, and frightened of such a wonderful,
melt-in protests, she had no part in that diabolical machine, promising
not to repeat that ever again pernicious example, and making sure
the hand on the cross of the jewel, it seemed she sought to certify
a witness of his innocence.

Meanwhile, the soldier, voice counterpoint and cried:

- Another word, lovely Mary, and all my sad infirmity point disappears,
and another and last intercession, and disappears my blinds.

The clapping dance, many asked, all answered, the soldier shouted and jumped and loudly beat
the dog. All was uproar, all confusion, suddenly ábrense the doors to the street, and enter them
sort are the City of Old Christians with whole apparatus of justice,
the sheriff Molino, cutting edge, and the owner Bermúdez, the lagging.

-
Look - it said - oh, Reverend justice!, Where are my endotrinadas;
flee my teaching healthy, and delivered to their zambras, and warn
not to bring with them the wisdom and personified under a mistress,
the many long robes to frighten and alcandoras almaizares; monitoring,
warning, Reverend justice.

- Hush, owner Bermúdez - said Sheriff
-, here's some more value to your gossip duennas, here is practical,
payroll here, then there must be penalties.

- Utique - said the notary.

-
For you see there, by himself - went the honest sheriff - the soldier's
wooden leg Cigarral, cured at once and no person who does not, take
title to it.

What is this, sir? It is strength in order to see and point to the contemplations; also sound
rumors Berber Moors jumped on the beach, which are cherished in these parts. What is this, Lord, no
justice? Have more time to allow the deals and contracts rebels gossip
and sedition?

What is this, sir? Sir, where are we?

Nobody knows where apostrophes would come and incriminate the sheriff
multador Molino, pick bracket, according to the dictation and intitulación
good soldier, if an unexpected vicissitudes not cut the rapid flight
of eloquence.

The event was a backhand well established in the sinful mouth, which gave the speaker and his
eloquence on the ground, and turning the fallen and the contest to see which hand had ballestazo
tripped, were out ahead of all regarding the angry Gerif venerable, he looked around for the mayor
to entrust their grievances, and met him, so he said:

- Do not believe
me that will take you where you are, for the reason of reprimand,
the word person so mean condition as less worth for your workout,
and so much more with individual grievance case my quality.

I, for who I am, Mayor of mine, if you are of what Christians old, and for the honor that the
King wants them to be saved to the children and relatives of the kings, or I can celebrate who
I choose, not admitting in my company but who I even, or close friendship that I require it.