 Each These plaques
are, in the ports of summer, a hut, and the other a 'winter' hut to shelter people who herd cattle,
and the winter, building large and robust of lime and stone, barn and stables for a good herd of
cattle. Usually, each winter correspond to the cattles of eight or ten co-owners of "hazas" or
contiguous parts of the brane. Some of these winter were already occupied. At night the cattle eat
pinned to the manger, of "priming" the barn, mowed in August hazas, pasta day outdoors, while time
consent, the care of their owners, who after leaving gathered at dusk down to sleep in the
village, unlike in summer, during which they sleep huddled in the hut, leaving the cabin "acurriada",
ie, the flock gathered around it. The stud are more independent and free, and stood, wild state,
where less we thought.

Pete was very rough, and it happened more than once I go very careless
and feel my back a ferocious roar that made me make two turns in the
air.

It was the shotgun's gaznápiro: a escopetón older and patched the jokes, he had made one of
hers. Pito not tired to tell anyone or taking the slightest precaution when a part is put throw,
ie, as he peered, both in the air than for Matos, who through the mountains is over, because
for a weapon the size of yours and the stuck shrapnel that had not far and fences: it threw
in the face, and above of my shoulder or between the legs of Chisco, as requested by the situation
of things and people, without getting tired of saying 'there goes that', "puuunnn!" It was
like the end of world: the mountains tremble, and the piece was not only dead, but in tatters,
because He did not lose once, or a single grain piece of shrapnel escopetón.

And the piece was a hare, a fox, a bobcat, a "Aeschylus" (squirrel), a pheasant or a vermin of
regular size, it is very noticeable that in this and other similar
strains are animals he encounters one going for a walk, even for sites
nearest to the people clothing as elsewhere in the world, is not it,
with the domestic cat, loving dog or poultry.

Chisco behaved very differently than his comrade: everything was unchanged in most at least that
its placidity of the continent. If I put a piece shot with a hand me stopped smoothly, with
the other pointed me, and with an expressive gesture or half word
I implied that was down to me.

If I wandered the coup, as was almost always, he'd he amended, if not anticipated the shotgun
from where less could Chorcos wait, and I noticed in the first case, some malicious pleasure
in the look me directed, while kicking the victim on the floor or down from the sky tumbling
as if to say: "Nah, you how not val Vey a pitu that shotgun, to be as nice as it is?" But Chisco
are greatly mistaken, because the weapon was excellent, and very decent ammunition it.