 She went back and entered
also to comfort her, she wanted subírsele knees, but could not. His mom was so great as all the
Palacio Real, the largest yet. Her mother had given her kisses. After casual, had taken a dress,
then another and another, and many fabrics and ribbons. In this gets her dad suddenly in the
Camon, no band, and his mother cries out in fear.

"I see, madam, I see - says his dad very vex - you brought me here a store ...». rag And his
mother, embarrassed very red face, but did not say: "I ... I ...
see ...».

In this, the poor girl, reaching the peak period of his delirium, he felt that within his body
is strange objects and oppressed people. All I had it in itself, as if he had swallowed half
the world. In his tiny stomach settled, dyed nasty and dense colors, and squeezing horribly
obstructing the bowels, his father, mother, the garments of her mom, Carrion, the Palace, Mr. Fish,
Milagros, Alfonsito, Vargas, Torres ... Retorciose painfully emptied
his body in that loads of things and people pressed it, and there
was ...!, bruumm all out like a torrent.

XXXV

She was relieved ... free of that awful boil your brain. Her mother cleaned the sweat from
his forehead, calling her with loving words. Rosalie felt his groans, undoubted symptoms of
the nightmare, and jumped out of bed to run to his rescue. It was
twelve.

Then made him a cup of tea, and he helped Prudence moved the sheets.

A half-hour the poor girl lay still, and his mother went to the sofa cabinet because dismissed
the bed fire. Before party wanted to give her husband to the dismay of the girl.

- "The usual? - Asked him from the fold of the single sheet that is
covered.

- Yes, as usual, nightmares, seizures, has been among the
strongest attacks.

Finally has calmed down. Poor angel! You will insist that our child is this propensity root
with epilepsy ... Knowing that is corrected sea bathing ...!

- So are those of the Jeronimos ... say, are better.

Rosalie's voice objecting to anything, was lost in the immediate quarters. Bringas, after coughing
a little, wrapped in clouds of sleep your opinion on the superiority of bathrooms Manzanares
to every bathroom in the world.

The improvement of our friend is stressed so much that from mid-July Golfín stopped go home. D. Francisco,
along with Paquito, would query two times a week. As the doctor had his house on Calle del
Arenal, a short distance had to go. The dark glass eye glasses, in addition to a great green
shade, guarding their eyes light, Ridley, always amiable with that recommended by His Majesty,
he dispatched soon. I was very pleased with his priest, and praised the excellent nature of the
patient, winner of evil in a few weeks. In July last eye doctor said his client was leaving in early
August to give a tour of Germany. "But you do not need me to display. I give it high, and what
may happen, one of my assistants will go through here three or four times while I'm out. " Bringas
heard with joy the dismissal of the conscientious doctor, a sign that evil was defeated. Born
of his honesty and sensitivity, prayed the doctor to pass him before leaving ... "Now you understand
me ... the little story of their fees. " Golfín burst into compliments.
"Time will ... What a hurry you ... Anyway, as you want ...». And
the great economist, leaving his son, weighed in the balance of his
mind arithmetical terms of this enigma was soon revealed. What regulatory
or what rate would apply? Would you consider as poor of solemnity,
as used above, as rentier under or a bourgeois shameful and beggar