 

Often the priest had thought that his nephew might be a good husband to any its two eyes, but as
it was a good game, the priest stopped his thought and purpose, and never did anything to be done.

Paco,
and Ines Beatriz they loved as brothers.

Paco, who was six years older than most of them, and ten more than the second, which at first
seems enormous age difference, they had a baby that he described as paternal. They were daughters
of the illustrious gentleman people, even though they had come to such poverty, and he, a plebeian,
and archiplebeyo all four sides, and under the blessings of fortune that his uncle's eyes, how
had he dared not even imagine that he could marry either?

So, Don Braulio married Dona Beatriz, and soon, as we have said, died priest, who was excellent
subject.

Ines, as was natural, he went to live with his sister and brother,
followed in Seville, and then followed this lively capital of Spain.

Since leaving the place left Paco entrusted to the administration of assets it had, with the assurance
that no one had to manage them better. Paco, in effect, responded to that trust. So in the time
our story begins, when appear in the Buen Retiro our two heroines, had between them just over
8,000 real year, which together with the 12,000 counted evil Don
Braulio, totaling an annual taleguita very run and long-waisted.

Even if life were removed, as everything is expensive, and well treated,
and dressed with a certain class for class, income and salary are
completely consumed, and thanks if you were not sometimes in distress.

To get out of them, living lavishly and rise to higher position in
the social hierarchy are two paths, lit by hope, to the acute consideration
of Dona Beatriz, which brooded a lot about these things since he left
the place, already married.

Doña Beatriz was the highest form of intelligence and knowledge of her husband. Attributed their
lack of success in the world to neglect, contempt or disdain that Don Braulio was all practical,
a certain lack of stimulus that could see into his soul, and was inclined to believe that
if she encouraged and spurred the soul of her husband and away from
theoretical vague dreams and distractions that led to nothing, it
was still possible to see him as Minister of Finance, or at least
Director of Monopolies.

The other point, it was as the foundation or cornerstone on which
stood Beatriz the castle of his ambitious hopes, was the beauty, the
elegance and distinction of his sister Ines.

Doña Beatriz, married and with a man who worshiped and wanted, and who was indebted to have
left the place where he drowned, and spaced by large cities, limiting its mission to achieve the
greatness to serve as a spur to the reluctant will of her husband; but Inesita, single and
free and full of attractive, she would know and enforce complete
with his wisdom, saw a reef Beatriz still intact, a rich mining of
all property, encumbrances and prosperity.

Import declaration in honor of Dona Beatriz, who draw on their imaginations to the ascending process
of each other plan of happiness, now using Don Braulio, Inesita prays never occurred to him put
in the composition of the least touch his picture sinful. Nothing thief comes. Doña Beatriz I wanted
to play fair.

Don Braulio had to be first-rate character without stain nails, and Ines was to be a countess,
marquise, and who knows if Duchess, without the least levity and all ecclesiastical and civil requirements.

Beatriz's pride, his aristocratic decorum, which was, though born
poor diapers, and their Christian beliefs, alive and fervent as educated
by a priest ejemplarísima of virtue, repelled any remedy that might
tarnish, but his desire to rise and raise your family will suggest,
in his view, decent and honest means by which to achieve wealth, honors
and awards, with ease and without dishonor or guilt.

Doña Beatriz fully discovered their plans and hopes and Inesita Don Braulio. He feared to frighten
and scare saliesen contradiction and opposition. Cautious and cunning, deftly bring the dream of
one and the other in the ways that she deemed conducive the term
to which he aspired, and already committed and placed in him, and
when it was very difficult to return ago, it declared its purpose
and show the term, if not see him.

With Inesita mainly it was about poetry and inexperienced, Beatriz came to top caution and dissimulation.

From
the night they had gone to the Buen Retiro had spoken several times
of the gentle knight that had followed, but never discover all his
thinking.

Doña Beatriz, by the phrases he had heard the Earl of Alhedín and his companions, by the car he
had seen and some news that after he had collected with skill, know the Count was single, very
rich, very noble, no father, and a mother who had no will but yours. Now, what is impossible
that the Count would fall in love Inesita resolutely and marry her?

More mixed marriages have been and see every day.

With a little luck and with rare discretion of Dona Beatriz was deemed gifted, well Inesita could
marry the Count. Ines was, as mentioned above, an adorable creature. Until his indifference
to its spirit, slept all ambition, could contribute to winning.

Nothing will damage both the other girls in this to catch a good marriage, as the naive and ill-disguised
effort to catch him.

Thus, Beatriz from sleeping with his sister and did not seek to awaken
their ambition.

That indifferent and sublime dream was a powerful weapon which should not be detached. She,
tell until a suitable opportunity came, would lead to her sister without removing the poetic
sleepwalking.

Sleepwalking and everything mattered, however, that Ines should move itself, and for this Dona
Beatriz had already played, and even thought to touch, any other
spring of your soul less the ambition and greed.

With these plans and intentions, the evening of the Earl heard at the Ministry of Finance who their
unknown, they talked alone in his poor house, while waiting Don Braulio, who was working in
the Secretariat.

- I do not understand, Ines - Beatriz said, sitting in an armchair in front of his sister -.
I rave no, nothing is special. I want it to my husband and my duty to my do lie in blissful
life, and so I have nothing to find out. I can live enclosed four walls without despair. What
can I do, what I can suck me off here? But you, single, young and pretty, is a marvel to resign yourself
to this retreat and isolation in which we live. Braulio is very good, it would be a saint if
he were a better Christian; but is a ferret and has its quirks. He does not want us to return alone
to the Gardens. And that ignoring the persecution of that Condesito. I want to take you to the
Gardens to see if you distracted, because you seem sad, but what
will we do?

We can not go alone Braulio licensed, let alone secretly. God forbid that I oppose what he commands.
It would also be easy to know it all. There is, therefore, more resources to wait while Braulio
willing and able to join us. Just finished his extraordinary work and not have to go at night the
Ministry. Meanwhile not go tomorrow, which is Sunday.

Tomorrow we will lead. I'll get it. Do you accommodate?

- I have no impatience or eagerness to have fun - said Ines -. I can well understand Braulio
does not want to go alone. We as girls both! ... You seem almost more younger than me. We
are exposed to a thousand frights ... to persecute us ... to disrespect
us ... as the rake the other night.

- You exaggerate ... Count Alhedín
not disrespected us.

The poor followed us like a fool ... had its temptations to speak, but after he dared not, and
did well. It would have been tomfoolery unforgivable in person so many bells and run. The truth
is that too excited to show off so disgusted, scornful and invulnerable. My daughter, you gave sight.

-
Sister - Ines replied with great simplicity and naturalness - do not try to flatter me esteem.
I do not believe. In any case it was you, not I, who Condesito arrow, although jokes leaving
us, which we believe is that neither you nor I arrows.

Excited their curiosity so as no one knows us. As a slacker, he wanted to follow us to pass
the time. Such Once the cause of which we follow for us was not flattering, but offensive,
perhaps, the see us alone and so young, he was of us an idea ...

- You can ... Perhaps we misjudged the top, but do not hesitate, as risky trial and the passenger
was unfavorable. It does not follow who was not expected, as we continued the count. Those
hesitations, those utterly, that shy in person so carefree and bold,
born of respect, not contempt.

In addition, a man of the world, understood as he is, no could fall but for a brief moment
in such an absurd hallucination.

Look in that mirror - and Beatriz noted one that was hung in front,
decorating the room - and it would be necessary be stupid not to understand
who you are, to think badly of you to see that face.

Doña Beatriz gave it to his sister kisses a dozen of sound, rising from his seat and embracing.

- How good and how crazy you are! - Ines said.

Then he added:

- Come, I wish indeed that Count followed us with enthusiasm, but
enthusiasm why what had to be me, not you, who inspired him?

Do you think the Count guessed that you're married?

- Undoubtedly.

I could not believe otherwise, seeing me alone with you and keep
us women honored.

- But I have heard that the libertines serve more
to married women and unmarried women - continued Inesita with the
terrible frankness of his childlike innocence.

- It's not a rule.

I, however, to concede that it is. I still affirm that there is no rule without exception
and in this case, the Count has pursued the spinster.

- And why do you affirm?

- Because I've seen.

- I saw nothing, for
not looking.

- Mirases not approve.

That modesty, that indifference you, stung the Count. If you reach look at him you would have
followed, but more daring, with less effort.

- Then you, you looked,
as you observed so much, how did you not be mean concept of you?

-
For married women, when we are not really dumb, we use many styles
to look at, and I I looked as it should.

Inesita opened his eyes and mouth, and shocked, to hear that there were several styles to watch.

Doña
Beatriz, not abandon his idea that the innocence of his sister gave him more money, he began to
think that if this candor bordering on blindness, could harm their plans. Something seemed
desirable and when not to unleash the band, loosen it a bit.

It was time to start to Inesita in the simplest mysteries of this
rogue world.

Moved by this thought, Beatriz said:

- Yes, my daughter, there are many styles to watch.

- Okay, sister, and I understand it - said Ines -.

Although I'm pretty stupid and ignorant all, because the people I've
spent my life sewing, playing with dolls, taking care our old tutor
and fixing the small altar, where San Antonio was the Christ Child
in the arms, while you were reading, studies and conversations, still
reaches me that look in different ways: for example, with affection
and indifference.

- Yes.

- I do not understand is why the wives
know that, and do not know why single women.

- For single women should
not know, because if they do, they should pretend to ignore it, and
because they lose a lot if you look through art, not to be so wonderful
to look at art that even the most cunning you note.

- And tell me,
sister, do not it could be that, without reflection, and by virtue
of that instinct, more and less fallible inspired reflection, looked
silly sometimes a single as well or better married to the most skilled?

-
Everything is possible.

Ingenuity can do everything. I, however, to tell you the three major
pitfalls they may encounter if you try to look at men.

First obstacle: that you be the eyes behind those who look, which is surrender, surrender and
feet tied and hands, making love to warm you if you breathe in, or profane and ridicule and mock
Your love if you do not apply.

Second obstacle: that look like shyness or distrust amazed and surly, and risk a silly pass
soda or not so. And the third obstacle, which possesses look at the science and other sciences
that presuppose the look, failed to conceal and ensure this wisdom,
and you accused and zahieran of lizard, of Lycurgus, the brash and
free and sick known for married.

- I think, Beatrice, in order to
avoid these pitfalls it is best to let go of the impulse.

- Oh, my
daughter!

No phrase meaningless. According Braulio, who read many tomes in leisure, at least as mankind has
twelve thousand years of civilization. Where will become of the legitimate and natural pure
impulse, after the fuss of beliefs, laws, doctrines, customs, habits, fashions and social conventions?
Take a Greyhound to your natural momentum. Become a savage, or seek him among the wild if you
have it. In addition, the natural impulse, the impulse of mere nature, is sinful and wrong. I miss
a girl, so good Christian as you are, be wary of natural impulse. Well good nature was then original
sin, for us to trust it.

- Women, I was wrong, I explained wrong.

What I meant was that it should get carried away, to look like for
all of my Christian feelings, that my natural impulse, as amended
and refined by the moral and religious education, thank God, I have
received.

- But look here, innocent!

What brings the doctrine of the Father Ripalda on these interesting details? Not anticipated
and left you in the dark. Our tutor, in the long sermons to us missed, never touched this point.
How did they calculate the Father and our guardian Ripalda were going to stroll in the Buen
Retiro, and you would be chased by a Condesito, handsome, elegant, noble, with car and drives more
than 15,000 income? In this complicated case involving thousand elements alien to the moral theology.
And what is the car, the elegance, the county, income of 15,000, the concerts of the Buen
Retiro and countless other circumstances, nothing have to do with nature are on the summit of it,
can and should be regarded as supernatural, because they are added
and superimposed on the natural and the culture of the century.

Laughter and good humor with which Dona Beatriz said all this a bit
puzzled Inesita.

Also did not know whether to cast it as a joke or replicate seriously. Resolvióse the end of the
second, and said:

- Sister, whether natural or supernatural circumstances, persist in believing safer any device
and study this I call my natural impulse. Sincerity and honesty is always what counts brings up the
practical and useful. I deny that science or the art of looking. For anything you need. A girl
must look honest and modest every lover of good breeding and advise, not to appear rude, in
general affect he feels or should feel for all others, and with due caution, that the gallant not misinterpret
his benevolence and the promise happy.

If you pass the handsome heartthrob indifferent a handsome lover, and love inspire the girl the
convenient way of looking at who you love, without you drop in to learn it by art.

- Hey, Ines - "Dona Beatriz -, no joke I'm talking about, but with great seriousness in the
background. You'd be right in what you say if there were no transition period between being
in love and not to be. You yourself have said. If the suitor goes from indifferent to love. Well,
for this step are the rules and art. Who is unrequited loves and really, look at him as want.
Love itself will teach you how to look at him but my daughter, is not that; this is the one who
you love and yet still loves you.

- A look at like that neighbor it.

- There's your mistake, Ines.