 The extension considered in us is an idea and a primary fact.

CHAPTER III. Scientific fruitfulness of the idea of ??extension.

Four propositions. It is the basis of geometry.

Natural sciences. It is necessary to measures. Evidence and examples. Simplicity of the idea of
??extension.

CHAPTER IV. Reality extension.

This reality is necessary, if not to destroy the reality of the outside
world.

Reality the extension and geometry.

CHAPTER V. The geometric accuracy made in nature.

The reality is geometric. Tests. Examination of two minds about the divisibility of matter. The
same result both cases.

CHAPTER VI. Clarifications on extension.

The extension and bodies. More clarification on the inseparability
of these two ideas.

If know the essence of the extension.

CHAPTER VII. Space-anything.

Importance of questions about space. Great difficulties. This raises
the question.

There is nothing in the distance.

Reasons against those who support them, denying the reality space.

CHAPTER VIII. Review of Descartes and Leibniz on space.

Doctrine of Descartes. Contestation. Doctrine of Leibnitz.

A remark on it.

Invalidity of an argument that he contends.

Real trouble against.

CHAPTER X. Opinion of those who believe that space is the immensity of God.

Clarke doctrine. Contestation.

Dangerous consequences. Newton. Review of Leibnitz.

A observation.

CHAPTER XI.

Review of Fenelon.

A remarkable passage. A doctrine of theologians on the perfections
of God.

It examines Fenelon doctrine. Is inadmissible. Doubt about the true meaning of his words.

CHAPTER XII. It explains what the space.

Analysis of the generation of the idea. Some propositions summarizing the doctrine. Uncertainty
inseparable from these materials.

CHAPTER XIII. New challenges.

The extent and location. What is change of place. A single body can
not move.

Movement is essentially relative.

Priori demonstration of the impossibility of certain figures in a single body. A perfect geometric
surface.

CHAPTER XIV. An important consequence.

Priori demonstration of universal gravitation.

Not sufficient to explain the existence of movement, and its regularity.

CHAPTER XV. Illusion of fixed points in space.

It examines the fixity of the four cardinal points. All situations
are a related ideas.

If God could give to a single body movement. Explanation. Vacuum.
Opinion Descartes and Leibnitz. Benefits to include the idea of ??space
in the extension abstract or generalized.

CHAPTER XVI. Comments on
the opinion of Kant.

Doctrine of this philosopher. Confusion of ideas.
He made the discovery that it contained. Tests. We must not confuse
the imagination of space with his idea. Limits of these two things.
Examples.

Their tendencies to idealism. System gives rise to Fichte.
Kant in contradiction with some of his disciples on idealism.

CHAPTER
XVIII. The problem of sensory experience.

What is the problem of
experience. Five issues of the Transcendental Aesthetic. Resolve the
first four. This raises the final.

CHAPTER XIX. Considerations on
the abstracted extension of phenomena.

The extension is not one of
the things that enter the extended thing. Analysis of the extension.
What is continuity. Uselessness of the definitions used to explain
that. The phenomenal extension and geometric extension. Conjecture.
Doctrine of St. Thomas on sensible representations.

CHAPTER XX. If
absolute magnitudes.

Considerations on the fixity of the measures.
Range of vision. Microscopic eyes. Futility of touch to a fixed size.
Example. Agreement of art and science.

CHAPTER XXI. Pure intelligibility
vast world. 

The reality and appearances. What is the corporeal world
in the eyes of a pure spirit. Two geometries. The pure and the empirical.
Pure geometry is separable from sensible. What is extension is stripped
of all sensitive. Why we find it difficult to conceive of intelligibility
pure corporeal world. Failure geometry. Necessity of metaphysics.
Failure of philosophy that reduces the world to movements and figures.

CHAPTER
XXII. Infinite divisibility.

Counter-arguments. The body of mathematical
and natural body. Failure of this distinction to resolve the difficulty.

CHAPTER
XXIII. Unextended points.

Two opposing arguments. Towards one based
on mathematical considerations. Reply. Non-subsistence which is based
on the parity of the number generated by the unit.

CHAPTER XXIV.
A conjecture on the transcendental notion of the extension.

A mistake
that is suffered in the investigations into the first elements of
the extension