 

Dear Sir

Although my desire and obligation to serve you have encouraged me to join as soon as news relationship
you left me in charge as he left these villages after of verified their astronomical observations,
my many occupations, which have been notorious, I have kept for some time the occupation applied
to this tasty, but finally, in intervals that the affairs of my duty let me free, and stealing some
times to the precise my rest time, certain applications with determination and tenacity, not
to delay further what maybe he will be doing the work needed to improve. Something will be
expanded this role; But all the news that I heap on it, you may choose the ones that are more
necessary, and discard the less necessary, and if you are including some that may be useful to
the King's service, either of these natives, or enlargement of the state, may you make use of
them in the terms it deems appropriate, because I feel sorry to see a province as rich as this,
and that neither King nor its inhabitants enjoy conveniences and advances that are being offered.

If
my intent was to give you a complete history of this province, it
must begin at least since the natives were reduced populations, and
describe the different to sites at various times have been moved more
than people with other particularities and news that make entertaining
reading.

This called for a long time to examine There are various writings about it, join the tradition
of natural and sorting as much as the truth, discard what has been introduced by the will or interest
writers, but still not my intention other than to instruct you in those news which conceptualizes
may agree, or the benefit of these natural and real increase Treasury, I will stick to only that
which I think leads to this purpose, and if you would add to his for other individuals some news,
you ask me, with the assurance that no forgive fatigue or diligence to get the suit you.

Their attentive and faithful servant, GONZALO DOUBLE.

Part One

         Description of the country, its
                inhabitants and productions

The province of Misiones is located
between 26 º and 30 º south latitude, and between the 319 º and 323
º of longitude, counting from the island of Ferro.

It consists of thirty villages of Indian Guaraní nation, commonly
called Tapes, their numbers among all peoples amounted year 1717 to
121,168 souls, in thirty-one reductions that had previously, according
to referred to as Father Juan Patricio Fernández, of the Society of
Jesus in his historical relationship of the Chiquitos.

The year of 1744 there were thirty people in there are at present
84,606 souls, as they are numbered in a printed map of this province
in Vienna.

At the time of expulsion of the Jesuits, priests of these villages, there were over 100,000
souls, and this can be computed, which are numbered at 60,000 souls, and more than 8 or 10,000
who are not registered, because they go fugitives of their own people, scattered in the same
province, and beyond, in the jurisdictions of Paraguay, Corrientes, Santa Fe, Buenos Aires, Montevideo,
Arroyo de la China, Gualeguay and elsewhere. Temperament is mild and healthy, and even distinguishes
between winter and summer, neither another is rigorous, happening in this province which is common
to Buenos Aires and Paraguay, to experience many days of heat in the cold of winter and cold
in others summer. Air is more humid than dry, because of the many forests and rivers, and
towns immediate experience they frequent fogs in winter, which lasts until 10 a day. Hurricanes
are frequent, and more thunderstorms, which fall some sparks, and not experience earthquakes.
The land is regularly bent, not found high elevation hills, plains or enlarged, nor is mountainous,
and that principle between the Paraná and Uruguay, near the towns of San José and Santa Ana,
from by the Martyrs, and heading east, the Corpus and San Xavier are low elevation, and all
are covered by dense forests inaccessible. In the rest of the province there are many islands
of trees, some on the tops of the hillocks and others in the lower ground and banks of streams
and rivers, leaving the rest of the land entirely clean, so that where there are trees is so thick
from the shore, and so weedy, it is very difficult going into them, and discovered land hardly
see a tree. In these forests, and in those who are on high as in valleys and ravines, are many
trees of various species, with regard to construction boats, houses and furniture factories,
some very precious, that to specify all needed a neat relationship that I miss, because even
with that you know that wood and wild fruits are these mountains around them with the Province
of Paraguay. No However, if you need extensive news of them all, with the notice and will form
then forward.

Throughout the province through the two great rivers Paraná and Uruguay, approaching each other from
Corpus Candelaria Parana, and from San Xavier to about Apostles Uruguay, so that between one
and one only half of 15 to 18 league common. In many of them empty creeks and streams, within
the same province have their origin and purpose are to promote agriculture to the benefit of
irrigated, so these streams, as many sources are everywhere, owe their origin to a large or small
dam, according to the flow spring that is formed.

The quality of the soil is clayey, mixed with silt or earth hortense far Emery and some sand,
its color is red almost like ocher, and only in some shallows land is Black, who apparently
is composed of plant residues by moisture sites grow and multiply
there than elsewhere.

It is also very rocky and generally fertile, mainly on the slopes of the hills near the mountains
and the pinks, and yet how little the natives cultivate the land for planting, collecting abundant
crops, particularly of all kinds of vegetables. Wheat, but not go as far as in Buenos Aires, yet
they collect good harvests, with usually ten to one. The rice grows well, and comes with plenty,
the corn as well, and everything is grown produce well. The same happens with other marketable fruit.
Grass trees named the Paraguay, are kept well in the same villages, and everyone has them some immediate
yerbales who have planted and cultivated, of which benefit every
year for its spending, and send to Buenos Aires.

These natural to them is much easier and convenient to residents of Paraguay, yerba mate extract
of large tracts of wild grass, because, well to be not far from the mountains, they bring the comfort
of the rivers. The cotton breeds well and produces in abundance, cane sugar, although not as
general as in Paraguay, in some towns better crop in that province. Cocoa is not Comparison of better
quality that benefits in these villages in Paraguay. Indigo grows very lush, but so far as
is known, because there is no one who benefits. Sweet potatoes and cassava are the main line for
the food of these natives, and in so, how many seeds are thrown to the ground produce in abundance,
so that, if there stimulus to force men to apply to agriculture, would not be wanting all year
in many vegetable gardens are reflected in the other countries at various stations year. The same
goes for fruit, all fruit and fruit are grown well, particularly oranges and lemons, which grow
to an excessive corpulence. The vines are grown well, and give very good grapes, and other times
it has made some wine in the villages that have attempted, particularly in the village of Cross,
which it appears was done fairly and very good at the time of the ex-Jesuits. The livestock
of all species are preserved and multiplied very well, and, finally, by how many sides will look
at these areas will find the most fertile and better proportions to form a province of more
trader, and therefore if not richer, at least the most comfortable of the whole colony.

Paraná immediately in one and another band, near the towns of Candelaria and Santa Ana, there
exquisite copper mines, but even if they worked after the expulsion, were abandoned, because not
enough profits to cover the costs, and although it ensures that there of mercury and other
metals, I have not seen evidence that convinces me of its existence. There are also mines in many
places far superior crystal, it breeds in the heart flint holes of various sizes, and grow in
my opinion. There are recessed the rocks around the inner circumference as the grains of a pomegranate,
but leaving hollow in the center, to which all end in a point with various surfaces, so alike that it
seems art that have been placed and carved. Some of these stones are purple, so diaphanous and
hard that I have no doubt they are fine amethysts, and it is believed that, if in the places
where are in the earth's surface look within, maybe they would find some value.

Throughout the province there are quarries of stone buildings, very docile and great styling consistency
to stay. Of these quarries former Jesuits took some columns further four yards long, very solid
and very well surface, in some are Property stones of slate, consisting
of several veins that are very disjointed easily, forming slabs surface
as well as style them is not necessary.

On the porch the church of San Ignacio Mini are three of these slabs, the largest has more than
fifteen long and ten feet wide, and the other two are slightly lower. Another kind of stone are very
rough, but extremely easy to carve, and according to their weight and some signs of vein it
seems iron, and is the most commonly used in the walls of buildings.

The medicinal herbs found are many, the Indians used in their illnesses, giving them names in
their language, but the benefit of their knowledge can not be achieved Meanwhile usefully clever
is not intended to discover their strengths and determine their uses.

Of the items most needed conservation and comfort of men are only two in this province, who are
the salt and lime, the stock must first of Buenos Aires or Paraguay, and the second is supplied
to launder the churches and houses, with snails large charred, that
is in the fields in great abundance, and of them is exquisite cal,
but it only reaches to bleach and no more.

In this province are very few insects that annoy men. Fleas, bedbugs and lice are rare. Hardly
see any mosquitoes in the rooms, although the field there are several species of animals and
bother people. The only trouble there in the villages is called the shafts, which are insects that
are introduced by the skin on the feet, then take their species increase and multiply prodigiously,
but well as the ease of extracting, in having a little toilet in the rooms are passed many
months without experiencing this inconvenience.

There are also many species of snakes, and some deadly poison, but not as many as they say, and
in villages rarely see any.

In the mountains and fields are bred tigers, leopards, foxes, elk
and ostriches, but they not usually bother the men.

There are also many special birds such as parrots, which there are many species, macaws, toucans
crows and white, the latter are the size of a dove, and long beak has a sesma rod, and two inches
in thickness; is also very abundant wood-pigeons, doves, ducks great and small, and many birds small
grocery.

The climate is so healthy that is just another one that is more, even to outsiders; Only those
who indulge in the vice of incontinence experienced the ravages of venereal disease that the
natives are quite touched, even if they do not experience strong effects in Spanish, and although
in some seasons, particularly in the fall experienced intermittent fevers, Chuccho called here,
are so little malice if anyone dies for lack of attendance. Only smallpox and measles are the cause
horrific damage, it is that they come in part from that, spending many years not experienced these
epidemics, they wrestle, as few people live that have had, and soon
the contagion spreads, who is not attending the sick, because fleeing
all reported to them, with not much to die almost all, with wonder
some to escape the efforts of nature.

I sympathize with much of the misery suffer in sickness, and though I have tried to provide
the assistance that I have seemed appropriate for relief in all their
ailments, I have not been able to get as I wanted, because the patients
are destined to consume the same by whose hand is supplied, without
having sufficient means few orders and I imagined for avoided.

In all this province and I have not seen news is no mad or insane, are rare the lame and flawed
and not experienced many chronic diseases.

This province is composed of people, all so similar to each other
than seen are seen one other, and although you have seen, I send the
plane of the Candelaria and Conception so that you can satisfy the
curiosity of others.

Their houses are of brick, with the exception of San Cosme and Jesus, that most are made of straw.
The figure of the buildings or houses of the Indians is that of a barn from 50 to 60 yards long
and 10 wide, including runners who are in shape, are very low, and each barn is divided into
8 or 10 divisions.