 

Ferdinand and Isabella, and never well weighted famous Catholic kings, occupied the thrones
of Aragon and Castile, an example of morality and wisdom to all his court, and being highly esteemed
not only by the aristocracy of his time, but also by all his subjects. The royal couple are grateful
to the displays of affection lavished these perpetually, could not express it under its appreciation
in a more commendable, because these monarchs not dishonor any vassal hiciese stop his carriage,
even in the most and popular public to pay attention to what they wished to express. However
this has always been known, according to historians, never absent from the palace those common
disagreements and gossip, daughters of envy. No evidence to characterize but this truth, that the
tape being then Queen Isabel the Catholic, began to propagate several characters, among whom
was D. Enrique de Villena, the succession waiting could not fail to be a bastard, and this is
apparent from the various scenes had witnessed in the palace. But yet to be D. Fernando so proactive,
and to inspect both things that were annexed, it appears that these voices took them by vague,
and did not care of them, so is that these characters attributed to indolence D. Fernando at this
point fear or the excess professed to love Isabella, who united the links wife Being the granddaughter
of his brother.

Particular view would take the de Villena and others to spread by
the masses such voices, but a view that later were discovered by the
one you were selling friendship, declaring the sovereign verbally
projects designed for them, and written correspondence showing they
had intercepted, addressed to D. Juan of Portugal, which immediately
answered D. Fernando sent through his business, Lope de Alburquerque.

Not having loved Don John of Portugal to hear the messenger of Castile, and having come to
know very soon D. Fernando, his temper in such a way that nobody dared to issue a word. Sought
placate anger in some moments, but all in vain; threatened he would do understand to their opponents what
they deserve who grieves the monarch of Castile, and that would show how great was his strength
against him angry. Nor were enough to appease his anger the pleas of his brother D. Pedro de
Acuña, Count of Buendia, who protested not terribly irritated, maybe a forged news, as could be,
was the reason the scorn and curses that went without distinction of relatives and friends. Only at
warnings of a personage was silent out of respect, was giving place to the King D. Fernando.
This character was known granger his love for his beautiful quality, which was around flattering,
making his words the monarch chest replenish each day more passion. Even Queen Elizabeth it
had on many occasions to rely on this favorite to talk with her royal husband.

These events occurred in the imperial palace of Toledo, when she gave birth to Queen Elizabeth
II on November 6, 1479, the Princess Juana of Castile, much like her grandmother Dona Juana,
wife of D. John III of Aragon, says the author of the Catholic Queens.

The name of Doña Juana is one of the monarchs that have long figured more in Spain ahead of
the actual documents and orders, and yet we can say that rarely,
or rather in neither party had a taste for the work that gave him
its high large hierarchy.

This kind of weariness to the destination hard it was to exercise at the age required by law,
he was increasing over the years, on the contrary, any task to that devote themselves to their
sex, but embraced with joy unspeakable, so is that's still young,
was the admiration of all who heard and watched their entertainment.

To this we may add that his name was but just a way to make known the heir to the throne of
Castilla existed.

When your child a few years after the famous Charles V took over the government of Spain, by the
usual impossibility of her mother, observed the same method, or because so require in various
estates of the realm, or because she was the sovereign actually respect and pray for and attention,
as it became known to give statements in his son Philip, pedia hiciese strongly preserve unharmed the
unfortunate name of your grandmother in front of public affairs, not to cause discontent.

Fifty years is sovereign retained the title of queen of Spain, in spite of not having ruled not
a single day, such was the mental alienation that was caused by the powerful possessed well-founded
reasons that will later be know.

The memorable D. Francisco Jimenez de Cisneros and the king Don Fernando, ordered, as governors
during the minority of Charles V, did not divulge the failure of
Doña Juana, to Despite being intimately convinced of their inability,
so that by many and repeated efforts made by some to declare it null
and void, did not make it, and why at all their way, they never suffered
from not having the will to either your acts of government.

His reason was extremely disturbed by the impulses of a lawful and
vehement passion: was because of this cruel life of an inmate imprisoned,
and if you ever felt resentful their precarious fate it was to continue
to promote itself with the plight of ardent imagination, thinking
that perhaps would commit a contempt order against her more tender
adoration.

This is the reason why a name of itself as enlightened, has barely featured under the concept political,
in the immense catalog of the Spanish sovereigns, and therefore is entirely zero. But notwithstanding
all, was the queen of this magnanimous and powerful nation, the daughter of the great Catholic
monarchs D. Ferdinand and Isabella, and mother of noble and brave
Emperor Charles V; so that the details of his private life, the reasons
why he fell into his insanity, and the foundation that is called the
Mad, can not fail to excite curiosity, and double cause, can you look
in this sovereign, as in the mirror of the sad sad results that the
violent passions have led to the extremity, if not modified and punish
with reason.

Equipped Juana of uncommon talent, a lively and ardent imagination, he was educated in a way
not common for that time: and especially in the Greco-Roman language, did admirable progress,
that he spoke with a charming ease.

The sage says Luis Vives that any material which is treated in this language, as if suddenly answered
out in Castilian. These qualities unia of a slender figure and very interesting, it was the type
of beauty, full of grace and dignity, her big eyes, expressive and ragged, denote the rare talent
and energy of his soul, that which accompanied the dignified and elegant manners of the court
of Elizabeth, paragon of virtue and morality.

All these great circumstances, together with the power of their fathers, and of Doña Juana one of
those games more advantaged for any young prince in Europe. These same circumstances constituted
a creditor to be idolized princess, even for not I had the pleasure
and honor to admire.

Clear proof that not long time some Princes to see what was what could be the owner of gem
that is invaluable. D. Fernando and Queen Elizabeth would not also extend their marriage, so
I count only fifteen years, ie, in 1494, adjusted to the desired wedding D. Philip, Archduke of
Austria, Duke of Flanders, Artois and the Tyrol, and the son of German Emperor Maximilian I.
Adjusted they were, instantly was begun preparations to march with the pomp and solemnity worthy
of the daughter of such powerful men. A fleet of twenty ships high board made ready in the port
of Laredo, embarking on her fifteen thousand men of war including crew. A Don Alonso Enriquez,
Grand Admiral of Castile, was entrusted with the command this fleet:
D. went Chaplain Diego de Villaescusa, dean of Jaen, and the charge
by the king to serve and to be the immediate command of the princess,
was Dona Teresa Velasco, wife of the admiral who led this expedition.

The camera and all destinations within membership to his person, was served by ladies and gentlemen
of the first nobility of Spain; so it says in the lists of them is D. Lorenzo de Padilla.
It is needless to mention clothes and jewelry that were to adorn so August princess can be
said for short which had been arranged with elegance and profusion.

Preparations finished, went the whole royal family to the port of Laredo Almazan, to dismiss them
as Escelsa princess, except the king D. Fernando found that holding of Cortes in Aragon, could
not verify it, very reluctantly. The late Prince D. Juan, Joanna's brother, and his August mother accompanied
her to the entrance of the ship, where drowned in a sea of ??tears, gave each other the most tender
and loving God. A God that echoed through every corner of the boat, in recognition to the real
people who were on the ground. The day August 19, 1496 were made sail with direction States to flamingos.
No mishap had been noticed, anything that had come to disturb the tranquility of the famous traveler
had occasionally happen, touching off the coast of Flanders, where he raised a storm so stormy,
that were obliged to shelter at the first point of salvation they found. Great was the grief
of seeing Joanna impending danger in his life, but God wanted could arrive at the port of Toorlan,
in England, after having walked for a term of more than two hours, fighting with raging waves
that another moment had plunged into the depths of the seas. In this population remained seven
days, during which the princess was very flattered by the ladies and nobles of that country, who
came rushing to kiss his hand and together to offer their services.

CHAPTER II.

Of how he married Joanna, the children he had and other matters of interest.

When the storm has subsided, arranged the trip to Flanders, and on September 8 landed in the Bay
of Ramna, a port situated on the outskirts of Holland, no other contrast to be gone several valuable
jewels of the princess, because the vessel where his bedroom was wrecked in a bank called the
Monge, very dangerous place. The prince, who had intended to Heaven Joanna's husband, then lived
a lavish Lande palace, village in the Tyrol, but ascertained the promised coming of his face,
left this, going with the fastest speed to Liege, where he had the pleasure of admiring the
beauty of the Infanta, after having waited impatiently thirteen days in this city. Immediately
was put into execution the marriage having been given blessings D. Diego de Villaescusa, Dean
of Jaen.

Practiced with the greatest solemnity and magnificence the usual ceremonies,
went to Antwerp, and thence to Brussels, where they were full of congratulations,
and where they had arranged to his arrival the people of this province
many festivals, which were the young couple enjoying a long time.

                    Such were the entertainment arranged by the people Brussels, which
some authors claim, he was heard more than once to say to Philip,
who in good point win would be his residence this capital.

It is believed that D. Felipe was an arrogant figure, handsome gentleman and very friendly sumptuously
dressed. To this is added as an amiable character, so everybody liked him. These qualities were
what the renowned Le Grange Fair. The Infanta Doña Juana was on the other hand extremity and energetic,
but nevertheless, it took a passion so vehement, that from the moment he saw him loved him with blind
idolatry. The affection of Juana Felipe el Hermoso towards more added every day, by the way of
life they observed, and the good behavior of the archduke, who as a young, not thinking about
anything but pleasures; So here we were in tournaments, evening parties and other entertainment
which grew to more than the passion of his young wife, watching the bravery and skill in the
arms of his Felipe.

Her husband was the object of their worship, it had deposited his heart, and he lived alone,
the young archduke paid this love to Doña Juana with all the warmth of his young age, and the gallant
manner of a prince, so that Infanta had one of those beings happier, and more when it came to
notice that soon to be mother.

Opportunity came when they left for Flanders after some time, which
gave birth to Doña Juana on November 15, 1498 to Dona Leonor, then
continuing through unscathed in his love both and not ceasing to be
an example of the spouses or ones.

Despite the fact that although would be like it was enough only the possession of the fruits
of his marriage to have taken more increased its unalloyed affection.

For their states did not have the best success being born female, but nevertheless, as were
ones parents, the child was appreciated. Two years later, in 1500, marched to Ghent, where on
February 21 had a son, whom nominated Charles, later known throughout the universe by his fame and
power. Great was the joy that looked painted on their faces of the inhabitants of those states,
striving every man expressing his joy he experienced by the Crown Prince. Were also innumerable
festivals with such a solemn occasion were implemented, and would therefore cause to raise the
extract of this story to a huge height.

Began around this time and Doña Juana to sink into despair, because since the fortune everything
seemed to tilt the favor to the newborn, began to vanish as if by magic the happiness of the
mother of Emperor Charles V.

Misfortune came to take the life in
the same year of 1500 to the end of July the infant D. Michael, son
of King D. John of Portugal, last child in the male line of kings
D. Catholics Fernando and Queen Isabel, falling as a consequence the
crown of Spain, in mother Leonor and D. Charles.

D. Ferdinand and Isabella immediately called Don Juan de Fonseca, bishop of Cordoba, and ordered
him to pass the order as soon as possible to Flanders for knowing the archdukes this event,
to congratulate them on their real names, and make known the vital
their need to plan your trip to Spain, for and eagerly awaited to
be sworn in as chief of this great nation, that the sky had deigned
to leave as the sole heirs.

A few days passed without D. Juan de Fonseca to fulfill its mission; but the tape found in Doña Juana
and the many occupations in this delicate time came to be Philip the Fair in those states, were
the cause of that could not be verified the planned journey to end and the year of 1501, which
gave birth to her third child, (Mrs. Isabel.) Bodies were so continuous that led D. Fernando
from his court, who were Archdukes required to set out, even without being fully restlablecida Juana
of the indisposition of his birth, so they solved it by land, crossing French states.

The rulers of this nation were received with the greatest affability,
lavishing endless displays of affection, and treating them with decency
and respect due to so powerful lords.

A small annoyance happened was the cause of the Archduke soon put
in departure abroad to Spain.

A holiday solemn Mass came to real French family accompanied by his royal guests. At the offertory
a lady came to Juana, approaching his hand a number of currencies, so as usual the names offered
to the public queen. This was rejected with violence, saying: "Do unto your sovereign know
me not offer it for anyone, do you understand?

". With the money and the answer came back the messenger to the Queen, who felt a slight degree
so marked, but trying to restrain his anger, was content to pay that with a larger one, which
was not provided with the exit of the church rather than to the royal entourage. Joanna's insight
made to present something on this particular, and indeed he was right, because as the Mass
ended, he began to meet the family, however, she was in church. The queen waited a bit on the
street but pretending Juana knew all this, he remained in that position long while, then going alone
to the palace.

Everything went hearsay in court about the snub that remains explanations, and had passed later
if the Archduke not try to apologize to his wife of shots that ran it; so hastily had to shorten
his trip to the Spanish soil.

Had already begun the days of 1502, when they made their entry into
Spain by Fuenterrabia.

In this capital waiting on the recommendation of D. Fernando and Queen Isabel, Don Bernardo de
Sandoval y Rojas, who accompanied by Burgos, Valladolid and Madrid
to Toledo, at which point were called the Parliament of the kingdom,
where, after jurors were heirs the crown of Spain, according to calculation,
was on 22 May of that year 1502.

Passed after also to be sworn to the kingdoms of Aragon and Valencia, in which they accompanied
their journey parents.

Back because of this expedition was to stop at Alcalá de Henares, in consequence of birth was
near Doña Juana. All parties that are prepared at the court to the archdukes heirs, were suspended
to run after the double object the new birth of a prince, which took effect on the day March
10, 1503 with the birth of the Infante Don Fernando who succeeded after the Emperor Charles
V in the empire Germany.

Occurrences that had by then in the states of Philip the Fair, did not allow continue any longer
in Spain, so I decided to get up instantly, even against their will, were not enough the pleas
of his mother, nor to Doña Juana make him desist from his efforts. From this period dates
the fatal madness of the mother of many kings.

Since that time he was so miserable a woman worthy of a better fate. Anyone you know what you
are jealous, you can judge which Juana had therefore been assumed that until the shadow was about
to snatch a husband so dearly.

Philip in turn had paid the fair value with the love placed in him, but it was extinguished,
not enthusiastic and repeated praise of his wife, and this caused him not feeling his departure,
checking it even before that the latter is the response of indisposition of his birth.

In the entourage Doña Juana, forming his servants, when he went to Flanders perform their wedding,
was a young girl, who was the admiration of all. Possessed a beautiful blonde pleasant and seductive,
graceful too much, and an extraordinary talent.

To find himself in the palace of the Archduke, motivated return Philip the Handsome of Spain,
once rid of unbounded praise of Doña Juana, look at her with such adhesion, which finally concluded
by blindly passionate attraction of the Spanish blonde, whose magnificent golden hair came
to seduce her heart.

Did not take long to succumb to the repeated instances of Philip,
which a few days to no was only a servant and who now occupied the
place of a queen.

Backbiting and envy began to be felt in the palace, and therefore did not last long without
the disclosure of this event so that as quickly as the news came to Spain, and immediately
learned real people.