 Andrew struggled weakly to free herself. The touch of those hands, a little deformed
by labor, plump black women, caused him exquisite delight. Tired of playing, sat down and gently
pulled the girl toward him by the fingertips. Rosa had rolled up shirt and looked round and smooth
arms, if they were not finished model of perfection sculpture, did not stop being so beautiful.
Andrew took out his handkerchief, wiped them carefully, and after some time petting the hearing,
it was decided to kiss them. The village will left to do, smiling and surprised that a gentleman
was humbled to sit on their lips rough peasant's arms.

- Come on - he said at last, - I'll pick up the jug, which is already
dark.

Rose again by the little path to the road, and turned to catch up. Andres was proposed you were
a bracero, as the gentlemen in the city, and seeing her in suspense, not knowing what was, I
said almost.

The shepherdess found him very funny. Let himself be led thus, releasing fresh every moment laughing,
and asking a thousand questions about courtly customs.

The road was lonely. But to turn one of its bends, tripped himself up against a man dress so singular
in that country, with black alpaca coat, pants and white vest and
Panama hat.

Was D. Jaime's uncle, Rosa. This, at the sight, he departed abruptly
Andrew, with signs of great distress.

D. Jaime, who had time to see them perfectly, greeted them with honeyed voice and let American.

- Good evening, gentlemen ... Do they come to take a little walk, right? OK ... evening invites.

-
No, sir, do not come for a walk - said Andrei Rosa .-- I found the
source, and was accompanying to his house.

- Okay, sir, all right.

The girls are bad at this hour alone on the road ... I come to your
house, Rosita: I was a great time chatting with Angela and Rafael
...

Rosa was content to smile, blushing all yet.

- Well, do not
mean to interrupt ... Keep on, keep going ... Until another little
while.

AND D. Jaime walked towards the village, while her niece and Andrew continued toward home. After
this meeting, stopped completely the joy of it: it was thoughtful, concerned. All efforts
were in vain to make her laugh Andrew.

He even fancied that he was a bit shaky.

- Come on, girl, do not worry so much because we have seen your uncle of bracero ... After all,
even if I tell your father is not a crime.

Rosa refused to be rushed, but his stubborn silence and haste to get home they said it Otherwise
clear. Upon arriving home, they parted.

Andrew urged her again to be disposed all fear. She repeated the same thing: that he had no
fear, but it was almost night insurance were waiting for dinner. And after promising to return
the next day Andrew was separated, giving a long and affectionate handshake.

It was dusk, so soft and melancholy in the field. The mountains closed the valley lost its landscape,
offering the reports and seen as monstrous packages. The piece of sky that revealed weakly
reflected the fading light of the sun, as was already long time, and barely breaking the lurid
light began to shine some tentative stars. Extinguíanse rumors that the farm work in such an
hour wake. And screamed no cars back from the land: no longer hear the screams of the countrymen
cattle prodding to get him into the barn, and did not sound the bells of the cows, and bellowed
happily calves to feel close to their mothers. Only the notes long,
sad, Ridge left a villager heard softly in the distance off.

The buzz growing overwhelming, insects had taken over the frenzied atmosphere. The soft cry, clear,
piping, toad once in a while breaking the monotony of this sound confusing and dizzying.

Andrew walked into the rectory, slowly, with hat in hand for better cooling, enjoying poetry
again locked in the narrow valley, the gentle peace that reigned in the countryside, the exquisite
sweetness of the hour placid and serene. At first, when turned from the house of Rosa, I felt some
fear and walked more quickly, but now with health had also entered self-confidence, believing
strong enough to overthrow any of a club, and from time to time to ensure this, was furious
turnstiles with his staff of holly. In between walked quietly, letting his gaze wander undecided
by the contours of the hills and trees, and thoughts run freely by pleasant memories of the day or
earlier. Not infrequently he has started this sweet delight the ringing slow, Argentina, melancholy,
church bells, turning to prayer. His vibrant and harmonious echoes woke up a sleepy countryside instantly
and then as a soft whisper lost in the dark of chestnut breast and
in the cracks rocks.

Would, therefore, the young courtier ambushed in his meditations,
when in front of him, one of side of the road, rose a shadow that
instantly took on human form.

And so came shortly after a voice that said prosaically:

- Good
night.

The young man had taken a step back and pressed hard his cane. On hearing the greeting was relieved
in one way and another flinch, because at the time failed to recognize
how the unexpectedly cut him off, which was none other than the American
D. Jaime, who had greeted not many minutes earlier near the house
of Rosa.

D. Jaime was quick to explain the meeting.

- I had sat down to rest
... The evening is so nice to not feel like getting at home, eh, sir?

Andrew, who had come to himself perfectly, he questioned this explanation in the domestic courts;
but merely answered:

- Yes it is very beautiful ... evening, not late.

But I expected my uncle to dine I can not enjoy it ... So bye, Don
Jaime.

- Aguárdese a moment, sir, we will walk together ... I also
go to the inn, because the end is the first dinner, right?

Andrew said not very satisfied:

- Sure!

And they matched, marching through the dark and uneven Glen Road towards
the village.

- You, sir, this country will be happy, right?

- Very.

-
So colorful, so green, so lush!

... And then with these as healthy air here to breathe ... You've become very good, sir ... looks
like another.

- I've improved a lot, true.

- Nothing like the good life and do
not remember business ... Conclude the work of head with the person
... I have done much harm.

"What work have had this huckster head stolid?" Said Andrew to himself, and aloud

- You're right, weak intellectual work: bodily exercise instead camp life and work miracles.

- Yes, sir, it is. But young people find it hard to take this simple
life.

A me that I am old, I do not care ... But you do not know how you
can live without its theaters and cafés and circles of educated people
they can talk science ... and know what happens in politics.

- Oh,
well!

Believe me, what happened to wonder.

- That is he knows how nice distraction, even among these bushes ...

Andrew warned watching the smarmy twang of these words and false laugh that accompanied them.

- Not at all. My distractions are identical to yours and around the world.

- Come, sir, do not say that by God.

We know that brings all local girls riots groups with little words. In particular, my niece Rosa can
not hide that is chaladita the poor.

"This guy wants me to pull the tongue, I understand why I expected,"
thought Andrew.

- Bah! joking and laughing with the girls, I do and
what you do and do it all.

Is a distraction than anything you have left.

- A lot, yes, sir, a lot yes, but the little jokes of a young man
so handsome, so elegant and funny how you tend to bring other result
than ours.

- Thanks, D. Jaime, it's favor.

I think when the jokes are innocent, or those of one nor the other produce results.

- That says, but do not think. No servant of the people or the contour has been achieved my niece
Rosa tame the more you ... It was a mountain goat, and you have put
soft and loving as a kitten ...

- What nonsense!

Neither do I talk to Rosa otherwise than with other young people, or It will be noticed me more
than any other man.

- The truth is that he has very good taste, sir ... Rosa is a very cool and very pimpollito
appetizing - Jaime said, as if he had not heard the words of Andrew.

-
It is indeed a very cute and funny girl ... but I have never spoken
rather than a good friend ... as well as his sister Angela ...

-
What raticos so nice about it have happened after the has been tame!

-
But do not tell you, man of God, I have no more relations with Rosa
than the pure friendship? - Andres said quite sharply.

- Do not bother,
sir, do not bother ... You young people are fond of the court have
fun when presented with opportunity.

There is nothing particular to play and have fun a bit with Rosita ...

- I do not have fun and play with Rosa: I treat like a very decent
girl, the daughter of a family whom I consider ... To play and have
fun in the sense that you seem to indicate, seek another class women.

-
Come, sir - said the Indian accent and sweet insinuating - that it
will escape occasionally a hug ... and more!

- Mr D. Jaime, you are
offending me.

I repeat to you that are not crossed my imagination anything like that ... And I am surprised that
you do to your niece's offense also believe it can suffer ...

- It's a joke, sir, no offense ... As I had nothing to talk, I took these follies just for
fun.

Because I know that you are unable ... and Rosita, although a little living of genius, is well educated
by his father ...

- I'm glad you do not think such nonsense ... and if you think, too bad for you wrong.

The Indian apologized again.

Andrew spoke a little against the town gossip; and these were bickering about it, so that our
young man suddenly cut and much to his pleasure the conversation.

-
Go, D. Jaime, I follow the presbytery, until the hearing.

- Go with
God, sir, have a good time.

Rose young Madrid moody and downcast the repechito was left to the
house his uncle, and while it was slowly approaching, I kept wondering
with some concern "- I wonder why that rascal wanted pry?"

XI

The idea that Andrew was formed, rumors and conjecture rather than
experience, mellow D. Jaime, was adequate.

Limited understanding, a troubled conscience, appetites awake gentle
and dangerous condition as the water stopped.

His father had embarked on fourteen years among other few thousand human sheep sent annually metropolis
the overseas colonies. At fifty had returned, without education, without religious beliefs and unhealthy,
but with thirty or forty thousand dollars, won on the back of a store selling rice and beef
jerky for blacks. The caged beast living that observed for thirty and six years was not calculated
to develop the germs of intelligence and goodness that providence of God does not deny any human creature.
Your thoughts, feelings and all acts of his will were vulgar and sordid. Instead, the enraged bulls
and startled his temper and inclined to the sensual pleasures, looking at them compensation of
that freedom, education and social intercourse here. Well was declared the clumsy Hobbies in
the dull look in his eyes, sunken and lost, and the cadaverous pallor the cheeks, which also
contributed the chronic ailment affecting her doing some years.

Upon arriving in the summer before his hometown had stayed at his brother Thomas, who thought that
he came with his fortune through the door. Soon wine regardless of its error. The Indian, if
I had money, and it showed. It took six months longer host at home, making many sacrifices by giving
her no more reward than some Light gifts to the girls and Rafael.

When asked for money to buy more cattle and should pay some peaks, D. Jaime was very bad face,
but gave it on loan to ten percent, made him special grace, for the most part it was placed
at twelve. Since then, the Indian was at his brother and on tenterhooks, afraid at every moment
new demands and also feared missing revenue than it had paid. If not was because Rosa thanks and
acted on his being alive and burning influence, had gone immediately. This influx of rude
nature, was what kept him and was also later he was forced to separate. Here's how.

No, a warm and flowing of their niece, or the extraordinary grace that printed their words and
attitudes, or the rare pride guarding their innocence, were what captivated D. Jaime. In this
way, their passion, even senile, would find excuses. All he saw and Rosa appreciated was the
way, or get closer to the truth, the flesh. Was unfit for feel or even understand other passions
increases. It seemed, so was a tasty morsel.

After several days of living near and contemplate long positions in all conceived for it a
clumsy and frantic fans. Display saved himself, because behind his vices, and even overcoming them
was the practical man, the villager selfish and suspicious. Feared who, knowing his weakness,
the family used to loot. Besides, would not be compromised. In imitation of many other villagers
who had come with money in Cuba before he aspired to enrich your blood and gain more prestige by joining
a Miss poor of the town, abandoned by this old and young. But while not shown, the sought some way
out. As carnal uncle, was approved for use with Girl certain familiarity that they would not be
allowed to other men D. Jaime used and abused. As he lived under the same roof and was in constant
contact with her for all the necessities of life, took advantage of its power very nicely more
than they would other guy less messy. "Rosita, Rosita .-- bring me this, go to the other .-- Rosita,
rises above this bank and get me those shoes .-- Rosita, Rosita .-- bind me this tape, hit me
button shirt. "And when I went and when they came up and when down, hands yellowed D. hairy Jaime's
pinched, the sobaban, the petted and squeezed.

Rosa, although sometimes embarrassed when touching rose point, and also showing some vague uneasiness
that she could not understand, received them with gratitude, thinking simply the favorite of his
uncle, or that more had been sympathetic to him. Not observe the unhappy that they are not so
frequent and lavish living in the light of the other as to be alone. And as time was slipping,
the Indian Burnt would melt more and more flattering, entertaining his shameful sensuality.

But there came a moment when the fire grew so that it was necessary to feed tossing fuel or off at
once, lest it burn alive. And chose the former. There was no need to think about marriage: that
the solemn nonsense judged not only by the benefits another union could report to you, but
because he missed forever on the shoulders burden the whole family. And regardless of who was the
daughter of his brother, a poor ignorant child respected him as an uncle and a gentleman, thought
otherwise. And not only thought but you put your thought process
of work.

Began to prepare the ground.