 He lives in a house well dressed, as it industry
of those barbarians, and sometimes, to enjoy more frequent visits from heaven, withdrew alone
into the wilderness.

Those who want to come into this office, before having a beard, begin to learn the ceremonies
and accustomed to dealing with the gods. To this is often the most venerable Mapon catch on arms
to the learner, put to look at the moon when full, stretch the fingers by sending that nails
grow longer, take the air and put you in the womb of the goddess Quipoci; miserable returns
of those afflicted and faint ecstasy, so that just after many days,
regained his strength.

Beyond this, observe fasting and abstinence most rigorous imprisonment of certain animals and fruits
singularly passion fruit, is commonly called Passion Flower, being portrayed in it the means
of our redemption. Neither are content to be revered demons of his priests with fasting and penance,
but you have to send everything to rigorous fasts the people. One, among others, is similar
to ours and which is stored in the dedication the temple, in which for five days can not eat meat,
and dressed in mourning the Rancheria is prohibited music, banquets and dances. Closely silence
and not spent the time other than in weaving mats for the ornament
of the Tabernacle.

The final day placed in the church open house, stocked with the best in the country.

To make a start to the festival, the devout old woman and apparently most holy, welcoming the
chief with reverent inclination, head low, slightly wounding the chief three times with curiously
carved stone, then turns to his knees around the temple with large sighs and devotion, then the
Mapon blesses all parts of the temple to sanctify, and other ceremonies,
too numerous to count, establishes that place, and finally, it concluded
the party with great food and celebrating a solemn feast of music
and dance.

About the last end and eternal bliss, have these blind idolaters many
mistakes.

They believe the immortality of souls, whom he called Oquipau, and have to live and rejoice
forever in the sky, to where are his priests.

When a man dies his funeral will take place more or less, depending on your area. After the mother
and wife of the deceased go to the temple with his offering, getting near the tabernacle.
Come then the devil, and pretending to be the one the soul of the deceased, comforting words
to the woman tender, caring, giving hope that soon be seen again in Paradise, then the soul
Mapon sprayed with water to clean off the stains of sins, as we us with holy water and that
the soul takes leave of his mother and wife. The point Mapon he throws his back and flying high,
leaving the woman crying to his misfortune you have news of her husband. Mapon returns after
a long time, with good tidings, telling her to wipe away the tears,
stop mourn and lay down their mourning because her husband is enjoying
the blissful life of the gods and then wait for the company ever in
the sky.

Thing worth knowing is the journey that makes Mapon with the soul and what it have to reach Paradise.

The
country through which it passes is all forests, mountains and valleys, where rivers are many,
and the backwaters of lakes and large reservoirs, for which passage is spend many days, great
difficulty to reach a crossroads of many paths, beside which runs a large river, there is a
wooden bridge, which assists in day and night, a god named Tatusiso, whose job is to go through
that bridge the souls and put them on the road Mapon the sky.

The suit and carrying this time God is one in which fantasy is crazy
poets Charon to his pale countenance, the ghastly face, bald head,
covered body sores and filth, and dressed in a rag to cover themselves
honestly.

This god ever lower to the church to hear the prayers of his devotees, because his office never gives
a truce, for pedestrians at all hours has to pass.

It often happens that while passing the Mapon with the soul, especially if it's a boy Tatusiso asks
for it stops to clean the filth, and if it so refuses, he suffers sometimes, but not a few, burning
with rage, grabs the soul and throws it to be swamped on the River.

Here say that originate thousand misfortunes in the world, and for these blunders people are
believed to be worth the demon of some natural events are confirmed these wretches in their belief.

Little
has happened in the land of the Jurucarés, which cuts the sky in copious rains the crops were lost.
Afflicted and bereaved people, begged the Mapon should ask to their gods the cause of this
misfortune. They replied that they knew, and was, being to heaven the soul of a child whose father
lived there, treated with little reverence to Tatusiso, and did not want to leave clean, so,
angered that god, put it in the river. " Hearing this his father was beside himself out of pure pain,
and grieving thus causing compassion because he loved as his own life, and because she could not
enjoy him in this world, he consoled judging, at least as happy and
blessed in heaven.

Alentóle the Mapon giving good I hope if a small boat getting ready to go to him from deep river.

Then
the father prepares a canoe, and Mapon, carry on their backs, blew and disappeared soon after he
calmed down the sky, which became the Mapon with glad tidings but
the boat never appeared.

Paradise where souls rest is rather poor in content and pleasures. Pretend that there in it some
very thick trees that exude a kind of rubber that kept souls and there are monkeys that seem
to look Ethiopian, who is also a bit of honey and fish; revolves
around the place a great eagle who pretend many ridiculous fables,
worthy of compassionate tears for the blindness of these people.

There are so many gods are many mansions in Paradise, but the goddess Quipoci makes many advantages to
other comforts and wealth. The Isituucas, or gods of water, have supplied the sky fish, bananas
and parrots, and here enjoy their eternal bienaventuraza drowning in the river, to which so called
Asinerás; to those who die in forests and jungles Iriticús, and those
who die at home Posibacas; making merit, not in the works, but in
the diversity of places where death takes.

Enough to have hinted that the barbarous idolatry of Manacas so you
can do some concept of toil and hardship suffered by the venerable
P. Lucas win them to Christ.

END OF VOLUME ONE

Printing was finished Volume XII of the collection
of books about America, in Madrid, in the press of Thomas Minuesa,
Juanelo street, no. 19 to April 8, 1895.

VOLUME II

LIBRARY AND PUBLISHING HOUSE

OF

A. URIBE AND COMPANY

Asuncion,
Paraguay.

1896

CHAPTER XIII

VP Lucas Caballero continues its mission of Manacas.

Viewing fervorosísimo operator a new field in which to sow the word Evangelical to collect no less
souls to heaven merits for himself, wished to hand as soon as possible to the work, however,
wisely considering that it was necessary to also attend many Catechumens
and had in the town of San Francisco Xavier, and it was better to
have fewer and Many well indoctrinated and ignorant, that despite
winning easily, as easily also lost, he determined to spend most of
that year in this exercise, using all industries of his charity and
his zeal in rooting of Xaviere barbarism lust, drunkenness and woes
few brutal life brings, and print them the virtues and good habits
needed to live as Christians.

However, in the midst of this effort made a few forays into the countries discovered by encouraging
in those people's wishes to receive the holy baptism, and together taking notice of how many
were Rancherías, languages ??and the number of Indians in the country, and having different relationship
all, I pondered the following year to take more heat conversion business, and serenity time
penetrating deeper into the earth, but he balked at hand, these designs the ailments that afflicted
him long time, and the pleas of their neophytes from San Xavier,
mudase begged him to another place Reduction, to be the cause of this
climate that had, significantly harmful to health.

For that reason could not by mid October, when the weather threatened to rain out with some
of the most fervent, which, comforted by the soul with the bread
God of the Eucharist, had offered his life for proclaiming the holy
name of God to the living in the dark shadows of infidelity.

Iban these, however, sad and heartbroken to be persuaded to have had no good end his journey, and
for the many rains with which they began to sink campaigns, and having
found the path strewn with razor-sharp spikes driven into the ground
with subtle cunning for enemies of faith, to retract to move forward.

These fears faded quickly, because a few leagues and did not find these tips and the storms of
heaven is not far ahead went before were just drinking water, and great job having climbed a mountain
very sour, they had two days off which thirst, but with moist clay, squeezed, more like food
you drink. But God, Our Lord, who never forsakes needs his men, hastened
to that of P. Lucas with a copy of crystal clear water, which beyond
all hope, found in the hollow of a tree.

Finally, having reached the first settlements, these people found their constant first attempts,
and only had to do in pave a great difficulty, and was taking away discord and make peace,
because among other evils to which incited the infernal enemy, was
an irritation to each other and sow discord among them to take soul
winning.

Spake with great earnings power of peace, discovering the fraud and
deception the enemy who wanted nothing more than them for their evil
companions in this life, and the eternal torments of hell in the other.

Convinced

those barbarians of the reasons, and moved by the pleas of the Apostolic Father promised to make
friends with the lands bordering and then with the remote.

Having stopped there two days for this, he proceeded along with some civilians. A whole day spent
on passing a craggy mountain, great work and risk, not Indians accustomed to easily climb the
rocks, but the Father, and must remain so halt to the skirt, not found to have breakfast, for
which a Christian nation Manaca, moved of compassion, he wanted to compose some herbs that were
the delight of their gods, but by far they were to fire, never could cook. However, the famine
and hunger are the was tasty, and smiling, said: "Great Hunger and heat have much in the stomach
is gods, that such meats they eat. "

Taking the devil so consistently bad in the missionary saint, sought with all the effort possible, dispel
their designs, and making the Indians lost their way, already pregnant the steps, making shooting
the horse, and wounding with tree branches, and sum up the thorns and thistles abused her body,
and flies, with their shrill stings, mortified him so that he could hardly stand and was necessary
for removed and neophytes will go up on horseback.

Finally, in spite of hell, came to view the Zibicas, but before entering the Rancheria, sent forward
to Numani, Christian fervorosísimo, to recognize if they were ready to receive the faith he had
not much to do, because the unfortunate death of that the year before had dared to put his
hands on him, he had persuaded the servant God was close friend of
the devil, and therefore he should be hosting, not by some out of
their souls, but that does not cause any bodily harm.

Seeing the good P. Lucas was there little hope of sowing the Gospel seed, owing of poor opinion of
him had, was entrusted to himself and the chief to the smooth and powerful grace the Holy Spirit,
and calling him aside, tried it first with the best way he could
take head that mistake, and then told him to his coming, and it would
receive if embracing the holy law of Jesus Christ.

As he spoke the Father, God entered the soul of the barbarian with a ray of divine light; Hopefully,
well not yet entirely student, went to preach as a teacher in his village I did not need much of
the teaching of his words when he had plenty of the example of his
Mapon to induce him to do the same.

It was the young son of one who had sworn blood drinking Servant of God, if the sky with death
wishes he would have tackled.

To win him to the holy faith, engaged a Christian, and his fellow
young also called Diego, and was reduced to a few sets, because he
had not yet corrupted the heart with malice; and more by ignorance
of the understanding that unwillingness of the will, it was not well,
because they knew the truth.

Having won that night to two of the main, it was not long in joining the people the next day,
and after a long argument to the mysteries of our Holy Fe, and obligations to live a Christian, made
the holy man lifted a cross and near her arm the portable altar with images of Christ our
Lord, the Blessed Virgin and St. Michael the Archangel, and kneeling all deeply adored, screaming
aloud: "Jesus Christ, our Lord, thou art our father, Our Lady, You, madam, are our Mother
"and not content with this, they repeated the same with great celebration and joy and dancing,
tours more than the devotion of art. With this show were crying with joy neophytes, giving many
thanks to the Redeemer, whose blood could be seen as clear and manifest effects on the conversion
of these people, but incomparably greater the joy of P. Lucas, who
flooded the heart of heavenly consolation, turning to look up to heaven,
exclaimed:

"Conténtome, my God, work and pay my sweats, to see that
you recognize creatures by their Creator and Lord.

Only they love you and adore you, I do not want an award. "

It pleased God to these offerings, it is allowed me to search out, and perhaps, in generous
award ceremony, Her Majesty gave some of these barbarians a gift so great of faith, before receiving
baptism, kept uncorrupted, and wanted more to lose life by martyrdom, to deny it.

Singularly worthy of eternal memory of the persecution he suffered Mapon common enemy; which, with
a brief interruption, I refer here, although it happened years later.

Pesábales much to be deprived the demons of that domain Rancheria, which for many centuries had
been to his devotion, used all his cunning and diabolical power to reduce his old religion and
worship, and appearing to that fervent Christian, who had previously been their beloved minister,
rebuked him harshly, because he, whom played by trade, did their part to return to its former worship,
churches and sacrifices. Can not you see (they said) that the chief Payaizá has desecrated the altars,
broke the sacred vessels and defied the Tabernacles, and the chief has left the sumptuous Potumaní
factory, which had designed for us have been fooled by the foolishness and follies of this traitor
cursed you have to distort the magic art understandings, fables and mysteries preached, and how
many lies will come to the imagination? Becomes, therefore, in your agreement, and yet the
power of authority and reasons, restored the ruins of religion, worship and beam restored remind
people of their promises, and the chief of its obligations, because if not, I swear to do great
damage to the common people, which serve as an example, and the memory of terror throughout
the country.

The earnest young man laughed his threats, and even though it insisted,
could never get you said in public a single word in your subscription.

Offended pride over such contempt diabolical, fell upon him, and a fierce storm of many cruel blows,
he stepped on, injured and abused so much that he were shed in great abundance at the mouth
of blood, and even though repeated blows, but reduced it to the last danger of life, never able
to contrast his record.

Tan had cast deep roots in their hearts faith and piety, that P. Lucas, and through him the
Holy Spirit had been planted in his heart.

A friend took pity on his work, he urged that, at least on the outside, might show some respect
to the demons and give them pleasure, talking to the chief to manufacture them his church.
But he was angry, he put them off by saying I wanted to finish the
life he had before to miss one iota to the law that profess Jesus
Christ, whom he recognized only by God and Lord.

As a Christian heroic virtue so new, could not fail to be rewarded of God he restored it to its
former health and strength.

Turning now to the story line, baptized children, not only that, but other Ranches, treated
P. Lucas to go to the Quiriquicas, but the neophytes, owing to the
winter threatening, undertook reluctantly, that trek: but representing
to the P. Lucas the reward that God would reward his labors in the
sky, encouraged therefore that felt incredibly comforted to continue
and take it.

All that remained was to persuade the chief Patozi to come with his subjects to make way through
dense forests, and together to make peace with Quiriquicas because cacique feared, with a
great foundation, had to remove the Quiriquicas life, by the implacable hatred that had, however this
difficulty, beat the boss for the journey reverence and love that the Father had, and took a select
squad of heavily armed soldiers, necessary just in case, he went after the Father, but he
said no use of weapons but when necessary to defend their lives from enemy arrows, that so played
to himself, nothing was given to live or die, and as was pleasing
to God and his honor, willingly shed blood to advance the divine glory.

A

neophyte imitation, left arms, offered to accompany him in danger and putting to risk his life
and had no one who neglects his orders, he put the tip of everyone to an Indian saint, Juan
Quiara, beloved by all, even to the Gentiles, by the goodness of life and innocence of their
customs.

Set things in this way, they set out, and had no little to do first with a very thick forest,
they spent a few days to open, then with the hungry, not finding how sustenance, but a wild fruit
that only the scarcity of other food was sweet and tasty; conocióse then the tenderness of affection
and reverence that had the P. Gentile Lucas, because seeing dejection, and that the amount could
barely weakness have standing, he was wanted at the expense of hard work, a little honey, and
food were removed the mouth to have to do to keep their forces.

When they were about two Christians came forward to reconnoitre the ground and watch the movements
of the peasants, wanting to enter without being felt in the Rancheria, to not be afraid or
brought to the flight, but Patozi, the chief, with wise caution, said it was in vain that diligence,
because the demons had warned as early as Mapon, and through them to the captains. And telling
the truth, because a few days before, being with the people for their usual devotions, the devil
went down to the Tabernacle Cozoriso, and looking sad and melancholy, he warned of the coming
of a jury that his enemy had been banished from other countries, bringing in his hand a cross,
which was the ruin of his religion, and saying he burst into a hearty crying, and feeling sorry
for himself, that where would you go in games over there? Where could be safely repaired to
not be evicted?

That therefore, if you loved, tomasen then arms, and the value, and the strong arm, held up his
cult, which other lot would fall to the ground quickly.

With such new whole town was shocked and at the same point was turned
into anger and rage against any damage to machines something of religion,
but not the Mapon, arguing that and inferring how great men and greater
than their gods should be the one to whom the gods feared responded
with angry voice and gesture:

"If the stranger is your enemy you
why you let him safe passage?

Why not one adds in the world, or at least so far from here, not put to risk your reputation?
Is this your power? If you need our weapons to defend yourself, or you are not what you show, or
you show be what you are not. "

This conclusion, deduced from the principles of natural reason, was enough for the grace the Holy
Spirit in a little penetrated his heart, and a blight that was hell made him an angel of Paradise.

The
chiefs and nobles, together in Council, determined to throw the rest
of their strength and power to repair the damage and ruin of his religion,
but not without fear of leaving their attempts when even their own
gods feared.

While these people were under arms and confusion, came forward with
the Holy Missionary Patozi and two boys very earnest, leaving all
the other people a bit distant.

Just the spies spotted from afar, shouting very out of touch when they fled inland, and behind
them, with his cross in his hand, went horseback Fr Lucas, because the wounds of the legs are
not allowed to go on foot.

Countrymen, put in order, met him to cope, and games two wings, surrounded
him that I had nowhere to free passage anywhere to flee.

Things being in this state, he was offered a Christian boy fly a picture Mother of God, in his hand,
and with the confidence that the gracious Lady would use then its power to deliver them from that
danger, lifted up, and so was looking at the barbarians, who lose
the use of arms, unable to shoot the arrows that were already on the
point, bows and arrows.

Amazed and terrified of this happening the barbarians, apprehensive that worse did not happen,
fled hastily retreating to a forest not far from where no one dared
to leave, staying for God's providence an Indian of them called Sonema,
after helped a lot for the conversion.

The next day, the Apostolic Father, though he could not keep up, not the heart suffers enthroned
see the devil in two temples, made to carry him past his companions, cast down Tabernacles those
infamous land, shattered statues and lighting in a square large fire, it burned all the trappings
and ornaments of the wicked idolatry, not without fear of their rookies,
who were suspicious about them not giving the barbarians, offended
that affront of their gods, to avenge the insult