 Two or three beautiful indigenous horses, strong, sturdy and patients compose
the shot, and the ornaments are light and funny. The postilion above all a kind Curious about
his attitude and official uniform, they seem to amalgamate the military and the harlequin. A tight
pants, blue cloth with yellow stripes, which reaches to the knees and set under two varnished
boots, a yellow vest or red cloth, on which is a microscopic sucks tailed, lined with wide
lapels and cuffs and large red shiny metal buttons, a patent leather or felt hat, cup long, narrow
and pointed and decorations, a very long foetida, and a raw clarion aside, make clothing and the trappings
of a prince of the Swiss diligence. This curious uniform, leading to laugh, contrasts with
the military air Seriot the chubby character, who from his throne on high street is announced to arrive
at the locations or out of them, and relay stations, with sharp taps of his bugle and the rattle
of their foetid longer producing foreign echoes in the mountains and forests of the road.

For the rest, the postilion Swiss, who understand that your guy is
a public official is noted for his kindness, his intelligence in driving
the vehicle and the regularity for all their acts, free of brutality.

The Swiss official so at all scales: attentive, polite, laconic, honest and true to its slogan.
There in its regularity and precision something that reminds the soldiers (because in Switzerland,
everyone is bound to military service); as restrained in their behavior is something that keeps
the rate of the free citizen, educated by the principle of equality.

The road, after leaving a suburb Neuchâtel town of beautiful villas and cheerful gardens, skirting
the lake shore in the direction to the north, bends to N.-E., crosses
the river Thiele (artery of reunion between two hydrographic vessels
of the body of the country), short swamp the narrow isthmus that mediates
between the lakes (Neuchâtel and Biel) and begins to climb, in direction
to the east, a succession of inclined planes and hills hilly, almost
dawning the northern end of Lake Morat.

Except in the flat part of the isthmus, always exposed to floods, cultivation of the vine is almost
exclusively on the banks of such high bit lakes. The horizon is long and melancholy here, especially
at the twilight of the evening, which produces three mirror smooth lakes, whose poetry encouraged
to quit wandering spirit in the world of dreams sweetly sad.

The three lakes, together with many similarities in appearance, are navigated by steamers, boats and
feluccas. The Biel (Bieler-See), almost all contained in Bernese territory, is unique in its
graceful island of San-Pedro who illustrated their utopian residence immortal John James in 1765.
Biel length does not exceed 14 kilometers per 3-1/2 latitude, with 434 meters height above sea
level and 70 deep

.