 

It seems, however, this less tolerable, owing to failure to recognize and even natural law, which
any man, savage and barbaric it is, just by being a man, revered and treasured.

The children, for the most part, have no respect for their parents, before they have on domain,
making them obey with great chutzpah, and if they feel like, dare
to put parents hands.

In their illnesses are not moved to compassion, before leaving with the incredible ingratitude
and left to hunger and disease, something that even with the animals
used, and out often including better be a dog than man, because they
feel sorry and remove food from the mouth to support a troop of dogs.

Perhaps he found Fr Machoni once with some of these barbarians who had to to bury the mother
of one of them deceased, who shortly before had been converted to our holy faith, and she
wanted to bury his son to a few months, because no india, even her relatives wanted to take
the job of raising him: quitósele hands after the Father and more than pay it forward and
begged asked, none moved to compassion by which was forced as to keep the child lived with
goat milk or sheep, no without incredible pain in the meantime to
see many mothers have big breasts earrings number of dogs so they
will not starve.

Celebrate their weddings the very old (if they each deserve to be called marriages, for women
tired of her husband, and he on them have openness and freedom to make other or another to
his will) not married but when they are tired of awkward, experiencing
them itself or fear or shame that the mixed nature in the pleasures
wisely forbidden to hold the line because of the genius of unbridled
lust.

It is not easy to tell how good work P. With a fellow Jesuit missionary in instruction in the principles
of divine law to people who seemed to be neither the first instinct
of nature, or what means of charity and zeal they used to make, beasts,
rational, and rational Christian.

They were the first with a hoe in hand to break ground, to handle the plow and to do everything
else that is needed in the work camps to train them to do the same.

After visiting the sick and they did with them all the offices of charity that would make a
loving mother, removing food from the mouth and support that they had identified the mercy
of the Spanish to remedy their needs.

Suffered with incredible patience their impertinence and folly continuous, hoping the good that
could draw from them. But this was the least about what worked in out of their souls, for dishonesty,
revenge, drunkenness and barbarity thousand other inherited defects in the blood, grown over the
years, and with custom converted in nature, was almost impossible
to uproot from their hearts, but such was the undeniable virtue of
the Almighty and the finesse of an apostolic zeal that little by little
began to soften the hardness of heart so stubborn and to domesticate
the barbarity of encouragement so wild.

The first fruit is seasoned with the sweat and toil of these fervorosísimos operators, were
many souls of children who are just washed in the healthy waters of holy baptism, flew with the
naive innocence stole to the eternal bliss, to take possession of that glory, that henceforth
they would enjoy the people of his nation, after the souls managed
of many adults who assaulted a fever that went on between them, willingly
changed life in the hope of eternal rest in heaven, through the holy
baptism.

One, among others, young a few years, not least in the wounds of his body, which the patience
of mind, seemed like another Job, he enlisted in the number of children
of God with great happiness and joy of his spirit, and making fervorosísimos
acts of faith, hope and charity went on this pilgrimage to the heavenly
homeland.

She wore very badly the common enemy of faith in progress as barbaric
and uncivilized nation, for That was then applied all their efforts
to stop them and suffocate the seed of the Gospel, before that is
rooted in the hearts of the barbarians.

The first half was that he used to seek the death of the missionaries who were so hard battle,
prompting them to unbelievers issued the necessary orders.

Intentáronlo them many times, and, among others, were as conspirators to kill P. Machoni.

They had been something away from people doing a dance with a great noise and clamor, and putting
wheel in the middle of a gourd, which is also art of the devil danced with them, they agreed
all night to give death to be freed at once from his zeal and rebukes.

Perhaps

the Father heard him, and leaving his ranch to learn the cause of the novelty unexpectedly, there
an India that came from the dance, though not so beside himself as
they did, they were totally drunk, said the father why her relatives
got so much noise and gave many voices.

She, who knew what they were trying, tried to cover it up with a fake smile, responding I did
not know the cause.

Missionary Temióse was not a drunk, and to address it certified and urged the India discovered
the truth.

She, fearing for this instance and the P. I knew, I discovered the
whole conspiracy who had plotted against his life.

Rancho Recogióse in offering to God his life in sacrifice for the good of souls, and was waiting
all night should come and kill him, but the Lord delivered him to other things in their service,
because the unbelievers advised by said that the Father india Known
missionary and his attempts, did not dare to give the death, fearing
they should come also then the Spanish to avenge.

Seeing the demon that had vanished this Trace, he used another, and
was introduced in the village the pernicious error that the same was
throw it to the children the water of baptism the head that their
souls leave the body, and printed so highly this deception their fantasies,
which became the Fathers love to hate and loathing, looked on with
bad heart and fled from them as sworn enemies of their property.

And gave to that heat they foolishly believe eternal, and though every day were quedárseles dead
in his arms his friends and relatives, with all that, to the prevailing
evidence of their eyes the error of understanding.

Tried ours with all his zeal fade forces that deception and mistaken persuasion encouraged the
devil to recent damage that Christianity and God, our Lord, people
look to the new believers to greater piety eyes, wanted it quickly
remedy this damage and comfort and cheer along the virtue of his servants.

If

passed this way:

Would one day P. Machoni Rancho Rancho carrying a pot of food to give it to the sick there an India
that brought the chest a boy who was now for exhaling, not could she so quickly flee and hide
her child so that the Father did not see her.

He tried it with sweet words and great kindness to mitigate the hatred of the mother and win mood,
in order to baptize the child, but all was in vain, because the devil
talking by the mouth of a woman around him, not least because of the
infidelity that lust, and vomiting against Holy Missionary and against
that many insults and profanity Sacramento say how many insane in
the most ardent of his fury, calling the mother to allow her to wash
son in the holy waters of baptism, for what would happen to another
mother ill-advised, to offer his son to be baptized, as the child
was dropped on holy water, which out of this life.

India was the good-natured and not easily distort the trial left with nonsense crazy of his own, let
alone the false apprehension that the holy baptism was tósigo to take life, met so many old Spanish,
with gray hair, who had been baptized; so willingly gave the child to the Father, who, filled with
a generous and humble trust in God, prayed to His Majesty, and begged off that pregnancy to
Santa Fe, since it would cost more than a hint of his will, then returned to San Francisco Xavier,
asking him to look with eyes of mercy to those blind heathen, and they both sought to honor
God reached His Majesty to that holy Sacrament not only serve to rid the this innocent soul from
the bondage of the devil, but for deliverance from disease body, and offered in appreciation
of that benefit, which expected to receive, would call Francisco
Xavier.

Heaven heard the fervent prayers of his servant: for after the child was baptized, was sound of their
disease.

The same thing happened to a girl, and marriageable, whom for being all cold and stiff, the
crying their dead relatives, but after she was baptized, by large
bodies with which they requested, and upon his return from a deep
sleep, he came to himself and to life.

Whereupon, little by little ceased in the false fear that people, and mothers gave their children
to contention for that might be washed in the holy waters of baptism and healthy.

Howled with rage the demon vanished seeing their entanglements, so put all your effort to tarnish
the splendor of the smooth proceedings of one of the missionaries, with a thousand reproach
slander by some apostates who were very way that prevented them from satisfying appetite of the
flesh, with all the most awkward and dirty pleasures of sense, but in spite yours, emerged triumphant
innocence of manners and fervor of apostolic life of this good Father and was then forced the
devil to safe conduct to leave the Holy Gospel in the very broad provinces of Chaco, where
the Jesuits not only seek the conversion of the infidels, but the reform of the Spanish and Indians,
coming to confess and preach the strong Spanish that is where we like St. Joseph and Valbuena,
and accompanied the soldiers when ranging from cities to hold the barbarians who continually invade
that province, the serve as chaplains, exposing the dangers and risks
of loss of life, not have their own features and at the same time
seeking to reduce those who prey on the Spanish and baptize infants.

In these companies had worked nine years gloriously P. Machoni, when the new government of 1719
came P. designated by secretary Provincial Joseph de Aguirre, for
which because it was necessary to entrust the care of that reduction
to P. Joaquin Yegros, other two fellow Jesuits.

The new Provincial Secretary sought to encourage all efforts to convert new infidels, to cooperate
as ever the governor of the province D. Esteban de Urizar.

Year, then, in 1719, in an entry that the infidels were residents of the city San Miguel de Tucumán,
discovered a new river which was considered then to be the Pilcomayo; to the banks of the river
knew many white people lived, they were by the Spanish.

With this news the governor determined that next year were to fully discover this river thirds
of the province of Tucumán, asking for a chaplain to one of the Fathers who were in the Reduction
of San Esteban.

Then Concediólo P. Provincial, and hopeful that this discovery would much glory to God, determined
by the Paraguay River entered through the Pilcomayo which empties into that river, some Missionaries
of the Guarani, in precise order that no stop to reduce any nation and just winning the will of
the natives will penetrate to meet with the Spanish soldiers who
entered the province of Tucumán, or they the site of the Chiriguanos.

All this was preventing two purposes: first, he discovered the land and the river, could enter
the Tucuman, Paraguay and Frontera de Santa Fe, shaking hands with
everyone of these provinces to conquer the Chaco, which achieved the
conversion of many souls.

The second, open shortest path here for the Chiquitos missions, which always is highly desired
to avoid the short distance to the path of Tarija, because Zamucos presumed that were very close
to the Chaco and the Pilcomayo, and there also On this occasion entered
a Jesuit to come to find others.

He noted, therefore, the P. Provincial enter the Pilcomayo river mouth to the PP. Gabriel Lucas
Patiño Rodríguez, both born in the city of Asunción, and at the time
Missionaries of Guarani, Paraguay's college and sent his brother Bartolomé
de Niebla, Andalucia, and donated to a Portuguese named Faustino Correa,
with some Guarani Indians, so that if Parents must defend the invasion
of infidels.

By Zamucos Chiquitos Indians came in with some PP. Philip Smith and Augustine Castañares.

The province of Tucuman were unable to find Pilcomayo and finally
found the Tucumaneses discovered by the year of 1719 could not be
that river, as this is small and large Pilcomayo.

The Chiquitos, having walked the Zamucos, where it is judged to fall
into the river, never could find him.

Those who entered the mouth of the Pilcomayo were on a ship and some boats, walked the river,
always at different directions, by repeated laps running: at first found some traces of Indians,
but did not see them.

And walked about eighty miles, partly along the river, partly because
of gaps, because there are many the bank of the river, which, when
low river, remain divided about him and made ponds; but when it grows,
the whole campaign is a sea of ??water, because they incorporate with
him.

These eighty leagues recognized that the mother of the river was not so deep that could navigate
for him the ship without manifest danger of running aground, which
determined by P. Patiño pass in the boats with his brother Fog three
Spanish and thirty-four Indians to record what remaining to achieve
the end of business, leaving in the meantime in the boat to Father
Luke Rodriguez, donated and to the other people to wait.

They came sailing the two boats and walked another three hundred leagues, in which several parties
were Indians of various nations, already confined to Chiriguaná.

Finally came to a nation not known, which seemed good-natured Indians, and were have beautiful faces
and good stature as the white Indian, Spanish appeared, they had brood mares and sheep, whose
wool fabrics make great, the horses were not number. The fertile soil in which crops are the
fruits of the country.

Jumped ashore and gave the natives many donecillos they appreciate
and thus they show much affection, who conceived hopes of reducing
later easily.

But some tuffs and Mocovíes that lay between them soured these hopes, because talking to the
Indians, incited them against us, plotting a treacherous betrayal their lives.

They were there for peace each other, in the case with many strokes as long as was necessary
to rest, when, having gone three of our Indians to cut firewood,
they attacked the Toba and Mocovíes treacherous with the Indians of
that nation, killed them both with arrows and the other badly wounded,
so he died a few days away.

The others retired to the boats that cover the Father sent some cow hides resist.

Came along to ours over 600 infidels, to the boats by shooting a storm
of arrows so thick, that looked like a swarm of locusts, but none
were harmed, because they were resistant to the skins, giving off
the arrows, and even though it has that P. Patiño was twice found
in the bow to the shooting, although all parts were falling arrows,
none touched him.

Seeing this attempted to withdraw from the furies of those barbarians, whose treachery undid
so far and hopes dashed able to penetrate the Chaco, where it was expected, as I said, reduce
many nations.

They returned, for no other fruit, with much work retracing the path of four leagues which until
then had sailed.

But back to the Reduction of San Esteban, the same year of 1721, there
were in it many families.

Kindled by this time a smallpox pestecilla, that died after two.

The others charged so scared to death that threatened them smallpox, the same day that those two
were killed, left to neglect our own and everyone fled least eighteen
adults and twenty boys.

Then it warned Fr. Joaquin Lorenzo Fanlo Yegros and mounted their horses in monitoring, and
went to reach for a few hills to Salta, but still much the thickness forest, and roughness
of the mountains, were removed, and followed on foot, with incredible
fatigue, because they fled down the right path, but always obliquely,
because they said so they could not go fever, tired of the bush and
turns.

Such is its enormity.

Parents were powerless before poderles to catch, and turning to his
people to care for those who had been sick, they sent after the fugitives
to two Indians carried with them to stop because of the eighteen adults
were killed fourteen, whom attended with great love, without fear
of contagion, and all other ill.

The two Indians found some miles
away to the fugitives, and even if they did, only they could be reduced
to come down to where they were the Parents.

They sought to roll back the reduction, but then managed only hope they finished the fever again.
Therefore, leaving them there to Parents became people to take care of those who remained,
most patients, of whom died soon fourteen adults, whom attended with great zeal and charity, to
give burial by their own hands.

The fugitives returned after some time his people, by the inquiries of our own, they always have
to work here, gloriously, the innate barbarism of all these nations,
as known by the referral.

At present this town is in extreme danger of destruction because
Mocovíes and Tovas, so far have been bridled by the value of the governor
of the province of Tucumán, main promoter of this reduction is coming
back to raise his head, and having slain the soldiers of Fort St.
Joseph and had the audacity to lay siege to Valbuena, it is feared
give in this town of San Esteban and destroy you for being helpless,
well why not Jesuit lost hope of doing much fruit in the Chaco, fulfilling
the prophecy of San Francisco Solano first apostle, who preached the
gospel to the Lules, and who no tradition in the land, who, having
predicted the ruin of the city of ETEC, which more than thirty years
has happened, also predicted that these Indians would become the Chaco.

Our
Lord wants to fulfill this prophecy as soon as possible