 They camp in the summer, in the bush in teams of
eight to ten, cut wood, prepared in the rough sandals pairs, and so them down to the village,
where, after it cured, they concluded just a little. In this task I found some of them occupied,
and seeing me enthralled narrow adze handle overalls and long shear, or removed by curette curly
chips from deep and intricate the Almadreña, or "painting", the tune and, at knifepoint on
artificial patina dried colostrum fire. Others are more carpenters, and also collects and prepared
in the bush timber stands and "canes" (poles) of horses, or farm implements which are then refined
and topped down.

Another peculiarity of those people buried among the highest mountains of the Andes: called "the Mountain"
to the flat land in the valleys of the coast, and "mountain" to its inhabitants.

One of the first people I got "the talk" on that occasion, was a man that was very original. I
found him picking edges of the floor and closing the gap with them a 'morio' which had collapsed
there. He worked with great deliberation, and was pushing a lot, without removing the pipe from
his mouth, every effort he made, because it was old.

He greeted me very smiling at me beside him, and I even called my name, "Don Marcelo."

Enough my quality of "sir" and a stranger to earn those honors a person of Tablanca, where are
all the same courtesy, but I was also nephew of Don Celso, son "of the late Don Juan Antonio" blood
Bejos Ruiz, of the noble substance of Tablanca, the "house" "...», going up there, the Pharaohs
of there, something indisputable, prestigious and respected per se
and as of divine right, but not the authoritarian manner despotic
feudal traditions, but to the patriarchal and llanota of biblical
times.

No wonder, then, should not miss me, view things from this side, the warm welcome I excused
the man morio.

Was "amañandu aqueyu" because he was in face view "in Abertal." Finances were not his, 'As I could
understand, "nor the land nor any fence, but had seen a day removed the first song of the
middle, then two of the "apareaos" with him, and then "other of arrimaus to eyus "and finally,
he had said," to the first celleriscas to come, or the first response to jocique up a little
lick pa verdinis Estus is the moriu esborrega around here. " And so it happened. Three days was the
open gap without being seen by the owner farm and a further four 'Pedric "he fruitlessly for him to
take up before it biting beasts to that gate and ended up with the "poverty" of the fence ...
until passing the "moriu" weeks in that state "bichornosu 'he had resolved to close the gap.
Why was this "one", and I could not help it. Not in all cases less than that the interest that
was taken by the alien, but she always gave in his face and got into big care carelessness of
others. I knew him when I had come to Tablanca and life I had done since then. She loved me attached
to the land and the house of my grandparents. Chisco was a good companion to walk where I walked
with him Pito also Salces, but not as "amañau" as the other "pa the AUTU of rozasi with finus
gentlemen." If Chisco out of Tablanca as was Robacio, there is nothing to ask. Still yet, faithful,
honest and serving workers as it was and where he served, no parent of that place was in "josticia
of law ", close the door of his house. Then there were those who, if not properly closed, either
is the opening of goodwill. Topics men. The girl was nice, and some goods had inherit in their
day, but was not "to each Callejues regolver" a good man flow was a "per with himself." Well she
knew him, so looking at Chisco with good eyes, but it was a very different looking from his
father, and he understood. The mother was on the road different than her husband, and snuggled
closer to those of the daughter ... In addition and settlement, and what Don Celso fix, if
the thing was good for everyone. But what "amejao" my father I found it! She had known him a
little more than "mozucu" because Don John Antonio I would, if alive, at the foot of ten years.
He had left the place without having Hair beard yet, then again, "mozallón arroganti Jechu
a" but "come out here and Aya, as he says otru that. " "We pulled it mundanu Muchu Jacia had
big bucks apañau through the land of God and the woman who waited to marry him. Had become to be
alone "the mayoralgu" he never wanted to destroy out of Tablanca. "Although it was not mujeriegu
of by suyu ", loneliness and other penalties had been forced to marry well. Married Well, that
yes, "Lifetime Bejo Rock!" with the best of Caórnica, home of the Pine: Dona Candida Sanchez
del Pinar. It seemed I was seeing, so arrogantona and so ... and then involved with their softness
... But God had not wanted things happen from there, and today a son, and tomorrow another, had
been the three who had been taking, and finally it worth a Potosi pure gold, and with it the
light and joy of the house, which fenecería "Tomorrow or the otru" with the poor Don Celso,
who had been about to die. And deceased Ruiz de Bejos latter, and in closing the house or moving
to unknown owners, what Tablanca would not live for his, no one came over in the valley as
old as the same river that crossed? So he was glad both of my coming. Permission might well be
of God. Because if I take attachment to the land, what better owner for the house, no more
pompous Lord for the entire valley, when Don Celso missing? Ah, how happy he is to I was cheering!
For now, there had to serve him in whatever he wanted to send ... Cucón Nardo, the "TARUMBA"
if it wanted more plain and familiar, because it was called the mote, did not know why, but it was
the truth that offended him ... Anyway, was closed gap ...

That was when he joined the TARUMBA all, although still somewhat bent
kidney and fairly wide apart, and faced me.

His talk had lasted as long as their work and I had not done more than look at him and hear him.
He removed his pipe from his mouth after rubbing both hands against his pants, Smote face down
on the thumbnail on the left and taught me a smile full of teeth chipped box. It was an old man's
face placid and very gray hair matted, somewhat reedy voice and very hard to "hinge", ie, awkward
their every move. For a man as careful as that of the estate of others, I felt very well looked
after itself had in view. I say this by the shabbiness and filth his whole person, which were
very large ... Still, it was interesting and very nice the old man.

I talked to him a good while yet, because I entertained a lot of their conversation picturesque and
I finally asked about the doctor's house.

- Sail there - I said
turning around to the right hand and pointing to "Lord a building
more than the current rate in the village -.

Two is Zanchetta in it.

- And Don Pedro Nolasco? - Ask later.

- Sailing to the other manu - he answered, pointing with his opposite
-.

Above tejau of the first to tend orchards, güertu, looms the Aleru
vencíu and detraseru jastialón of eya, with its balconies with fierru.

In this coming toward us from the top of the site, whose homes, like
those of all mountain areas, have no rhyme or reason to each other,
a girl of good picture, with a highly polished copper cauldron on
his head, and a clay pitcher in each hand.

The TARUMBA, after meeting her, he winked at me, turned back and told me while carrying on
snuff his pipe

- That's Tanasi.

- Who is Tanasi? - I asked myself.

- The eldest daughter of Toperu
- he answered.

- Who is the Toperu? - He inquired.

- Pos is the
father of Tanasi ... Come the monsoon Chiscu courting.

- Aha - I
cried watching her carefully, because time was passing in front us.

The monsoon, which had assumed something of what we were discussing
the TARUMBA and I became very red and smiled, lowering her eyes to
give us good morning.

Heart praised the good taste Chisco, and I explained well the molehill.

-
Well, what the hell you want for your daughter? - Asked TARUMBA.

-
One such Pepazus - I said it -.

A mozallón as a cajigu, which removes two hazas of a cave, eats cuatru Cavone, and unless the
pump unless it tenemus moriu ahead.

You say you have the Toperu this hobby, not because I am able to juralu that as Nah, you, sir
Don Marcelu, can ponder me and what I will or that come in these canteens?

Putting up at the doctor's house, who wished to pay his visit that
day, despedíme the TARUMBA, but it, cutting by half the dismissal,
she said she "gypsy he was also because both houses were full, and
his doctor, just opposite, and cast to walk beside me.

We spent an alley with many Bardales, and lead to a square green land and contoured for the
most part died with ivy and elders, said my companion, pointing to the left and bottom of
a bag that was there for two enclosures, one of 'busquizal "(thick bush) and a crumbling wall between
weeds:

- This is my home.

And turning to the opposite side, he added, while pointing to another that closed the square
there:

- And this is the méicu.

The house snuggled TARUMBA the wall on one side of ruin, and there was with him at pains and
losses and the harnesses from the owner.

With these thoughts in his head, looked at TARUMBA without saying
anything, but he must have read it to me in the face that I put, because
I said right away:

- No espanti of EYU, because it's metal or wood.

I stayed and women, not because of the salt beds and the hijus, among Casaus and ausentis, it mesmu
that if any; and I do not reach the pa ná tiempu with the work they give me the ajenus beware ...
Because, believe me Nah, you, sir Marcelu Don, what happened to me
has vistu moriu Nah, you raise, going on here with a thousand and
five hundred to ca time of day and nochi, and if not by the Tarumbu
juera, Nah, you don believe me Marcelu, believe me tomi Nah, you and
not to emponderancia: if the Tarumbu juera, the goal of Tablanca vecindariu
of callejonis Estus she would have been devoured by the swarm and
cuerus vivus.

Well keep me even putting it in doubt, I left him very affable, and I went to the doctor's house,
which was two steps.

IX

Since he had known little more than a glance, at my uncle, I felt a great desire to take a
paragraph to my taste Tablanca's physician, because it seemed to
me at that youth had more 'quarry' which is in the usual type and
flow of men their age and circumstances.

And the quarry was the first clearings, at ground level, as they say.

As I had been closer to home, came out to meet up with a doublet portal home, little more than
summer, despite the cool winter running environment, but with good coats and plump white flesh
that stuck out in hives and gathered cuffs of her nightgown and above
the slight neck jacket.

Upstairs Condújome a few sections, then a short passage, and, finally, I introduced a living
room with sunshine and cabinet, which, for the furniture and the books it contained, I assumed
from then he would dispatch. Sentámonos face to face in comfortable but not rich or plush armchairs,
a table between the two, full of papelejos, a letter opener, box of filled and vacant matches,
ashtray with cigarette butts, a flask of sole and a bag open surgery, and there was first the
usual vagueness whenever they visit, then smoked, while talking about the weather, so unusual
in its relative moderation, or the trial I was forming of the land, hitherto unknown to me,
then touch the point hygienic conditions of the valley, and this loophole came to light the
broken Celso my uncle's health, on which I was eager to speak with one mediquillo.

It's harder than it seems to show ingenuity, discretion, tact and, above all, art in trivialities
and pettiness that is the subject forced the beginning of the visits "in full" we all do, which
makes the whole world. It is easier to win a battle to enter on time and well toned in those
worthless symphonies of comedy that will represent later.

I have the courage to declare, as I'm concerned, I almost always I see in these trances, he
entered at the wrong time and tune, and the more I endeavor to amend the blunders, the worse I get.
But so help me comfort that I view it more blunders mine and to enormous inconvenience and
nonsense where fewer were expected for the quality refined actors. Well, precisely in the same
dangerous trance was where I started I foresee the 'quarry' of that young man, bare-chested
and almost child clothes, mediquillo simple of a hamlet buried in mountains, in the presence
of a smart Madrid, tired running the idle rich world, and certainly not by what I said or what
he did, but for the opposite: so shut up and so did not want to do, or better yet he knew so well
just shut up and sit still, and choose what I said and how to say. Everyone has a desire to be
a bit sharp, a little funny and a little naughty in front of people, hence the follies and inconveniences,
and almost anyone it happens to be sincere, which, good education and a dash of common sense,
have no guarantee of becoming "evil" there or anywhere, it is not loose at the time warranty
essentially communicative reach. For full sincerity, and at its highest degree, together with
a good understanding, was the first thing which I took to see in the mediquillo of Tablanca.

Speaking
of the illness of my uncle told me it was fatal. Was ... (And here laughing stopped to ask
forgiveness for the words she was going to drop) in a dilation heart ... asystolic state ...

-
In current Castilian - added with a gesture and a very natural and expressive gesture - is
the old machine whose body begins to decompose. It hindered the wheel of the heart could be impeded
as another major. For some of them had to start the inevitable ruin. When consumed it, when
the machine stops, it is not possible to calculate a date fixed either by me or by those who know
of these things I do: the same can stand inside six months at the
moment.
