 Did not know how many battles with the peoples of the Americas that
yevan feathers and arrows, and finally hisieron the masters, and rip off the treasures of the kings
there, and the least filled his house to the tile, Moneasa toa gold, and there was a hisiesen
non Marquis, general or presonages of justisia. And like these, many others. Imagine Nah, you, Senor
Juan, if we live entonses ... What we have to Costao Nah, you and me, Bueno some of these young
men who hear me, haser much or more than that Pizarro ...

And the men of the farm, always silent, but his eyes shining with
excitement for this wonderful story, nodded to the ideas of the bandit.

-
Again we nasi later, Senor Juan.

The road is cerrao Guen the probes. The Spanish do not know what haser. It is not Aonda and go.
What was in er world have shared it apropiao the English and other extranjis. The door is
closed, and men have heart to rot in this corral, hearing bad words because we are not satisfied
with our luck. I, who might have Come in to the king in the Americas or elsewhere, I pregonao the
roads and even called me a thief. Nah, you, a brave, kills animals and takes Parma, but I know
that many women look at bullfighting as Ofisi low.

Doña Sol intervened to give advice to the bandit. Why did not a soldier? Could escape to distant
countries, where wars have, and use your strengths nobly.

- Yes I serve pa that, my lady. Many times I've Pensao. When I sleep in a farmhouse Or sneak away to
my house for a few days, the first time I get into bed like any Christian and as hot in a table
like this, I'll agradese the body, but I get tired endispués paese and it pulls me with their
troubles mount, and I sleep in the open hase wrapped Farta in the blanket and a stone cabesera
... Yes, I serve sordao pa, I would be a sordao Guen ... But Aonda go? ... No more real wars,
where ca a, a puna cameras, did what he advised his caletre. Today there is only ganaerías
men, toos with same color and same brand, they serve and die like clowns. The same thing happens
in the world: Esquilae and esquilaores. Nah, you done a great thing, and he appropriates the
Colonel, "Nah, you quarrel as a beast, and give the award for general
... No: I have also nasi pa sordao later.

And Plumitas looked down, leaving a good time as if absorbed in contemplation
of the inner his misfortune, seeing no place in the present era.

Suddenly required the rifle, trying to stand.

- I'm ... Many grasias,
Senor Juan, its atensiones.

Sallu, my lady.

- But Aonda going? - Said pulling Stew -. Sit, Malaje! 're Nowhere better than here.

The chopper wanted to prolong the stay of the bandit, pleased to talk
with him as a lifelong friend and to have in the city after his interesting
meeting.

- Yevo three hours here, I must go.

Never spend so much time on a site discovered and level as the Rinconá. Maybe this time they have
gone with puff er I'm here.

- Ties mieo the civil guards? - Asked Stew -.

They will not come, and if they come, I am with you.

Feathers made a dismissive gesture. Civilians! They were like men, had bold, but all parents, who sought
not to see him and were late to learn I was on one site. Only went against him when the accident
put them face to face, without means of escape.

- The month passed I was in the farmhouse of chimneys Sinco lunch
as I am here, although without so Güena company, when I saw six civil
guards on foot. I did not know that desert I was there and who came
only for cooling. Casualiá bad, but neither they nor I could run the
package in presensia of people toa der farm. That has endispués, and
poor languages ??and design lose respect if toos are cowards. The
country houses closed the door, and the guards began to rifle butt
that opened pa. I sent him and a laborer is placed after the two sheets.
"When I say 'now!", You open wide. 