 And without looking up the
table, began to rush furiously rods before him.

- Fermin - he suddenly looked at his friend with red eyes .-- I'm
crazy ... crazy lost.

- I can see - Montenegro replied coolly, while
eating.

- Fermin paece a demon blows my ear the most terrible things.

If your father was my godfather, and if you, you were not a few days
ago that would kill your sister, Mary LU.

I swear by it by my best mate, the only inheritance from my father.

He opened with a crash of a razor handle springs old, fiercely kissing
smooth sheet, colored drawings by rust-red.

- Man, it will be something
less - Montenegro said staring at his friend.

He had dropped his fork, and a cloud passed over his face red.

But this hostile gesture lasted only an instant.

- Bah! - He said - yes you are crazy, and more so is the case then
you.

Rafael began to mourn. Finally, his eyes could give way to tears that rushed to them, and sliding
down her cheeks fell in wine.

- Is true, Fermin, I'm crazy. Loose bravado y. .. na: I am a weakling. See how I be, a lad
beat me. What I have to kill a ladybug? I wish I had black guts to
that.

Then I'd kill you, and toos at rest.

The distant strumming of the guitar and vocals that cut its rate, cheering the heels of a dancer,
seemed to accompany the fall of the tall boy's tears.

- But, let's
see - Fermin said impatiently .-- What is that?

Speech, and ceases to mourn, you look like a blessed in the Holy Burial Procession. What's wrong
with Ladybug? ...

- Who does not love me! - Cried the desperate accent overseer .-- That you do not listen to
me! That Quie have broken and not me! ...

Montenegro smiled. And that was it? Contention of boyfriends; whim of girl who gets angry to
encourage the monotony of a long engagement! Happen and bad wind.

He knew what hearsay. He expressed his skepticism with young hands, the English, as he said, enemy
of the perfect love affair that lasted years and were one of the traditions of the land. He
had known he was not dating anyone at Jerez. He was content to take what they could, good, from
time to time to satisfy their desires.

- That it always appreciates the body - continued .-- But so fine
relations with sighs, penalties and celillos, never!

I need time for other things.

Y Fermín, mocking tone, trying to console his friend. That would slump.

Caprichos of women who get angry sulking and pretending to want them more! The day least expected,
would see Maria de la Luz go to him, saying that it was all a joke to test their love, and
she loved him more than before.

But the strapping young man shook his head negatively.

- No, not like me. This is over and I'm going to die.

Montenegro was telling how his love had ended. She called one night to talk on the fence, and with
a voice and gesture, whose memory still shuddered at the poor lad, he announced it was all over
between them.

Christ and what news to receive, out of the blue!

Rafael clung to the bars to avoid falling.

Then there was everything from pleas, threats, tears; but she remained
inflexible, with a smile that was afraid and refused to continue affairs.

Ah, women! ...

- Yes, my son - said Fermin .-- A drag. Although this is my sister, I do exception. So I took
them what they need and shun the deal ... But what excuse did you
Mariquita? ...

- That he does not like me, who has suddenly apagao
that I had. Do not sit for me not a crumb of affection and love pretending
not to lie ... As if one could want off suddenly, like a light! ...

Rafael
remembered the end of his last interview. Tired of begging, clinging
to mourn the gate, like a child kneeling, the desperation she had
burst into threats. Fermín forgive him! but at that moment he was
capable of murder. The girl, tired of his pleas, afraid of their curses,
finally slamming the window. Y until now!

Twice a day had gone Marchamalo
with the excuse to see Mr. Fermín, but Mary Light hiding, just guessed
his horse galloping down the road.

Montenegro hear him thinking.

-
Will you have another boyfriend? - Said .-- Did he love someone?

-
No, it does not - Rafael was quick to respond as if it's any consolation
conviction .-- The same thought at first and I was already busted
in Jerez and then in prison. When I remove my Mariquilla for Lu, killed
him. But alas! that no one takes it from me, that it is what goes
... He spends his days watching from afar Marchamalo tower