 And the original case was that she did not protest publicly or in secret, even
in the sanctity of conscience, against the evil of their people come home. Juzgábalo natural
and logical. He could not think think that would be otherwise. Its sociological ideas not yet
advised him to rebel against the verdict of public opinion. Believed in good faith to put on
gloves or a fur coat or hat, I made a act rejected by the divine and human laws. The whispers,
the mocking, were the necessary punishment for this infraction. Hence, their fears and anxieties
every time I went to stand in the theater or on the promenade, and flush the rushing.

Why then, say, Dona Paula is dressed like this? Not be very knowledgeable human heart that such
a question. Dona Paula put on his hat and gloves knowingly that would embarrass him as a guy opens
the cupboard and knowingly sweet docks then they have to flog. Those who have not been reared in
a village, you never know how tasty treat is the hat for an artisan.

Dona Paula was high, dry, awkward. When she had been a good girl, but the years, continuous closure,
which was not seasoned, and especially the struggle that had maintained with the public to
establish their hierarchy, had withered prematurely. Still beautiful black eyes kept enclosed
in a nice face and good features.

The first act came to an end. It was a fantastic melodrama, whose name I remember, where the company
had made all the scenic apparatus that was available. Casserole I was amazed, and welcomed each change
of decoration with loud applause. Pablito Belinchón had happened in Madrid a month last year,
laughed incontestable superiority one appliance with smart winking in front of the stage.
And to prove that the whole thing bored him, ended by turning his back on stage and look to
twins to the local beauties. Each time the skin beautiful Russian glasses pointed one, the girl
suffered a slight shudder, changed position, her hand a tremulous little hair to fix it, smiled
at his mother or his sister for no reason is put serious again, and fixed strongly and decisively
their eyes on the scene. But at the moment the fast rising shyly to those beady crystals that obfuscated.
Finally concluded by blushing. Pablito, satisfied, pointing to another beauty. The known as if they
were her sisters, tuteaba to most of them and many had been boyfriend: but the pen in the
air was not more mobile and changeable in the field he loves. All had to suffer a painful disappointment.
Of late, tired of love to neighbors, had been dedicated to fascinate many outsiders came to
Sarrió, only to abandon, Of course, if they committed the folly of staying in the village
over a month or two.

There are good reasons why Pablito could have his good-natured heart all young Indians and
even the bizarre. He was a young man of twenty-four apuestísimo or twenty years, handsome face
and manly, graceful and elegant figure. Horseback riding and admirably led by a cabriolet or a four-horse
chariot, which no one could do Sarrio more than the drivers. When wearing the baggy pants, the
Pablito seemed skirts, if narrow, was a stork. Came the fashion of high collars, our Pablito was
half the street with his tongue hanging out. Estilábanse low, as taught to sternum.

These and other eminent authority they did so rightly invincible.

Perhaps some will not find entirely justified the dictatorship love of our youth in Sarrio.
We nevertheless confident that the provincial youth who read this story logic and judge plausible.

When
the curtain fell, a hunched old man with long white beard and glasses, came crawling rather
than walking to the stage of Belinchón.

- Don Mateo!

Impossible you missing - said Dona Paula.

- Why, what do you expect at home, Paulita?

- Praying the rosary and sleep - Venturita said.

Don Mateo smiled sweetly, and replied to that impertinence giving her a pat loving in the face.

-
It's true you should do that, my dear ... but what do you want? if
not I go to bed early I sleep ... And then I can not resist the temptation
to see these faces so cute ...

Venturita pouted disdainful which
shone through the satisfaction of being woo.

- If you were even a
cute chick!

- I've been.

- Does how many years?

...

- How bad, how bad is this girl! - Mateo said laughing and undertaking
continuous act a fit of coughing seized him breath for a few moments.
