 

Doña Beatriz did not know what to say after all, was silent, and let go as you don Braulio
wanted.

That night, therefore, made no comment on the suit of Mr. Braulio, but not left to tie it graceful
loop of the tie, or stroking her hair, put ointment and combing the
best she could.

The three took a stroller with mustache and went to the Gardens. Along the way, said Don Braulio:

-
I think, and I'm sorry that you are going to annoy. We have no friends. Do not even have known.
In the midst of the hubbub going to be like a desert.

Who is to tell? Who is to approach us?

- Men, do not worry for so little - answered Dona Beatriz -.

If you do not know anybody, if no one speaks, well that neither you
nor I know yet of memory.

Talk, we tell new things, we shall the gathering of the three, we'll
hear the music and cool.

- To take the air - said Don Braulio - the
same is to go there than the Prado.

- And still save money for the
tickets - Beatriz said.

Ines was silent, and left to continue the dialogue between husband and wife.

- I do not mean expenditure poverty, Beatriz. You know that I'm not mean, though I am poor.

-
I know. I suspect not think it hurts to spend money on gifts. I say no irony. I say this only to
realize that, view things as you see them, is silly go to the Gardens, but I, and Agnes certainly
more than I see them through another prism. We like to see people,
but not repaired by us.

The animation, joy, entertainment Luxury recreate us. Although we do not forge the illusion or
hope or even desire be seen and admired, want to see and admire the show, the beauty and elegance
of others.

- You're right, my dear, you're right. I forget you're a girl. Your tastes are as a girl. Mal did in
marrying a man ... and an old poor and obscure. Would you be called and held for you, leaving
your husband in his dark and poverty? Would you that I came to be known as the husband of Dona Beatriz?

-
I do not want, or that is possible. Everyone who knows me will know you, and, knowing, estimarte
can not but by what you're worth that much, and not because you are my husband. Those who are
known only as husbands is because otherwise they do not deserve to be. No one would remember
of them but for their wives. As for your age, your darkness and your poverty, I fall in love
again, well you know, that youth, brilliance and wealth in any other.

If something is worth my love, it bathes your soul and feel rejuvenated. Do not talk to me
sometimes the sweet light of my eyes? For lights that light your darkness. Did not you say
that my love is a treasure?

Well, how dare you, ungrateful, to argue that you're poor?

Don Braulio,
who was sitting in the mustache, hearing phrases such as loving mouth
linda could not contain his excitement, he burst into tears, holding
the hand of his wife, kissed passionately.

Doña Beatriz in her hand
felt a tear fell on it to give the kiss Don Braulio