 Castellar ordered that carry images of the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Rosary, Santo Domingo
and Santa Rosa in solemn procession, which traversed many streets and richly decorated where
there were altars and arches of great cost. A novena made himself rich, paying for his own
pocket the devout virreina Dona Teresa Maria Arias de Saavedra as expenses great parties.

The
viceroy ordered printed and distributed among the miners of Peru
written instruction the author of the new method.

Everywhere was the subject of lengthy trials that proved wrong, and did see that the profits
were so small and even dubious, not worth it. The viceroy felt somewhat snubbed his pride with
this result, and Don Juan del Corro not give up, attributing his misfortune to scams and envious
enemies. The Castellar, together with all officials and notable people of Lima, witnessed
the Finally, a trial and was convinced that the advantages were nil, and dreamed profits the new
system that so many had hallucinated, but was memory - it laughable by the way - the enthusiasm
and parties with which it was received.

His intransigence with entrenched abuses attracted him very powerful
enemies, who spent their Savings influx record everything and to unhinge
the viceroy in the mind of the sovereign.

On July 7, 1678, when he was in Lima a procession of rogation as a result a terrible earthquake
in the last month left the city almost in ruins, was Count of Castellar a royal order of Charles
II in which he intimated the immediate delivery control of the proud and arbitrary Archbishop
Don Melchor Linan y Cisneros. This held him to a narrow view of residence, and for he had the
meanness to keep, for about two-year exile in Paita.

When in 1681 replaced the excellent Duke of Palata Archbishop Cisneros, Don Baltasar de la Cueva,
acquitted at trial, presented its Relationship of Command, dated in the little village Groove,
immediately Chorrillos, which is one of the most notable among the memories that we know of the viceroys.

The
Count of Castellar brought great wealth to Peru, most of which belonged
to the dowry his wife, Spanish lady who endeared himself greatly in
Lima, for his charity to the poor and the valuable gifts that favored
churches.

Was said of him that came rich command and went almost poor.

The arms of the cave were: Shield curtain, the first and second quarter with a gold baton gules,
the third in silver and a dragon or tap vert in the attitude of leaving
a cave with eight silver bordure gold blades.

In 1682, Charles II, the slight relief that so unjustly infer, appointed
him Minister of India.

Play this role Don Baltasar died in Spain, three or four years later.

III

The Count of Castellar used every evening to take a walk through the city, accompanied his secretary
and one of the captains of service, but before returning to the palace, and when the bells
rang the Angelus, entered the temple to pray devoutly Santo Domingo a rosary.

It was the night of February 10, 1678.

His Excellency was kneeling on the footstool that a convent was careful lego to enroll before
the altar of the Virgin.

A few feet away, and standing next to a seat were the secretary and captain of the guard.

Despite the semi-darkness of the temple, finally caught the attention of a lump demure behind
the columns of the vast nave.

Suddenly, the mysterious shadow went to tread cautiously to the footstool of the viceroy and
gouging at it with his left hand, threw him to the ground, while in his right hand shone a
dagger.

For this to the Viceroy, the captain was an agile and tough young
man, with all the haste was launched on the murderer and grabbed her
by the wrist.

The sacrilege was struggling desperately with the iron fist of the young, until, crowding the
monks and devotees who were in the church, managed to take the weapon.

The man was Juan de Villegas.

Fugitive from prison, a week ago who was in Lima, and since his return
did not stop of stalking in the temple to the Viceroy, seeking occasion
to kill him.

That night was assigned the case to Mayor Don Rodrigo de Odria, and
such was his activity that eight days later, Villegas body swaying
like a bunch on the gallows.

- Too bad rogue! - Said at the foot
of the scaffold to Sheriff Don Rodrigo -.

Is not it true, Güerequeque, who always maintained that this villain
had to finish high?

- With apologies to usiría - answered the questioned
- that the suit is of little height to the deserving Rascal.

MOTHER'S LOVE

CHRONICLE SEASON OF VICEROY "SILVER ARM"

(A Juana Manuela Gorriti.)

We deem it desirable to alter the names of the main characters in this tradition, sin venial sin
we have committed in The summoned and otherwise. Names mean little if careful not to distort
the historical truth, and well have guessed the reader why, and very powerful neighbors will
have had to de-baptism.

I

In August 1690 he made his entry into Lima the most excellent Don
Melchor Portocarrero Lasso de la Vega, Count of Monclova, Bush Commander
of the Order of Alcántara and twenty-third Viceroy of Peru by His
Majesty Don Carlos II.

Besides his daughter Dona Josefa, and his family and servitude, He was accompanied from Mexico,
whose government was transferred to these realms, Spanish soldiers. Distinguish between them,
for their gallant and martial appearance, gift Fernando Vergara, hidalgo Extremadura, captain of gentlemen
spears, and we had to that among the beauties he had not stopped Mexican austere reputation
Benedictine monk. Brawler, gambler and lover of women to war, was more than difficult to do sit head,
and the viceroy, who professed paternal affection, was proposed in Lima to marry him for his
hand, to see if that was really dumb customs status.

Evangelina Zamora, in addition to her youth and beauty, had clothes
that made the game more lovely city of Kings.

His great-grandfather had been, after Jeronimo de Aliaga, Mayor Ribera, Martín de Alcántara
and Diego Maldonado Rico, one of the conquerors Pizarro most favored
by divisions in the valley of Rimac.

The emperor agreed the use of the Don, and some years after sending valuable present to the
crown hit him the mercy of a habit of Santiago. With a century back, rich and ennobled, our thought
conquistador who had no mission and this valley of tears, and in 1604 rolled the mat, bequeathing
of the estate, in rural and urban properties, a flow that was estimated then fifth of a million.

The
grandfather and the father of Evangelina accretion inheritance, and the young orphan was found
to age of twenty years, under the protection of a guardian and envied for their wealth.

Among the modest daughter of the Count of Monclova and affluent Lima was established shortly
the most cordial friendship. Evangelina had reason to be so often at the palace in partnership
with the captain of gentlemen, who by dint of gallant wasted no circumstances
to make his court to the maiden, which was effected without amorous
inclination to confess that Extremadura gentleman had managed to sprout
in his chest, listened with secret pleasure the marriage proposal
to Ferdinand.

The broker was the viceroy nothing less, and well-indoctrinated young could not infer snub to so
high a sponsor.

During the first five years of marriage, Captain Vergara forgot his old life dissipation. His wife
and children were all his happiness was, let's say, a husband exemplary.

But one fateful day the devil made Don Fernando accompany his wife to a family party, and that she
had a room where not only playing the classic malilla crowded, but that, around a table with green
baize, were gathered many devotees of culbículos. The passion of the game was just numb in the
soul of the master, and no wonder that in view of the dice awoke
with greater force.

Played, and so perverse fortune that night he lost twenty thousand dollars.

Since that time, the model husband completely changed his ways and returned to the feverish existence
of the player.

Mostrándosele luck increasingly rebellious, he had to undermine the finances his wife and children
to cope with losses and throw in that bottomless pit called for revenge.

Among his companions was a young vice, Marquis who favored dice with tenacity, and Don Fernando
took so crazy whim combat fortune. Many nights I had for dinner Evan's house and, after the
dinner, the two friends were locked in a room a shirtless, word on
the technique of the players has a nasty accuracy.

Decidedly, the player and the insane are the same entity. If something smaller, in my opinion,
the historical figure of Emperor Augustus is that, according to Suetonius,
after dinner played even and odd.

Evan was trying in vain to avert the cliff to rampant player.

Tears and tenderness, anger and reconciliation were in vain. The good woman has no other weapons
to spend on the heart of the man she loved.

One night the unhappy wife was already included in her bed when she was awakened Ferdinand asking
the wedding ring.

He was a brilliant crecidísimo value. Evangelina was startled; but her husband calmed her anxiety,
telling her that was only to satisfy the curiosity of friends who
doubted the merit of the precious jewel.

What had happened in the room where they were rivals of carpet? Don Fernando lost a large sum,
and no longer having pledge to play, he remembered the splendid ring his wife.

The misfortune is inexorable. The precious jewel few minutes later wearing the ring finger the
greedy Marquis.

Don Fernando shuddered with shame and remorse. Bye the Marquis, and Verger accompanied to the courtroom,
but on reaching it, turned his head to a screen that communicated Evan's room, and through the
glass violates sobbing on his knees before an image of Mary.

A horrible vertigo seized the spirit of Don Fernando, and as fast as the tiger lunged on the
marquis, and gave him three stabs in the back.

The hapless fled to the bedroom, and fell lifeless in front of the bed of Evan.

II

The Count de la Monclova, very young at the time, commanded a company at the Battle of Arras,
given in 1654. His courage drew him to the thick of the fight, and was removed from the field
almost dying. Restablecióse at last, but with loss of the right arm, it was necessary to amputate.
The silver was replaced with another, hence the nickname that came in Mexico Lima and was baptized.

Viceroy
silver arm, on whose coat of arms is reading this motto: Ave Maria
gratia plena, happened in the government of Peru to the illustrious
Don Melchor de Navarra and Roca.

"With equal prestige than its predecessor, but with fewer administrative skills - says Lorente -
pure customs, religious, conciliatory and moderate, the Count of
Monclova edified the people by its example, and the needy always found
him ready to give alms their salaries and income from home.

"

In the fifteen years and four months of the government arm of silver, neither period until
then or since was no viceroy, the country enjoyed perfect peace,
the administration was ordered, and magnificent houses built in Lima.

True that the Treasury did not walk flourishing, but for reasons extraneous to politics. The processions
and religious festivals then remembered, for its magnificence and luxury, the times of the Count
de Lemos. Portals, with eighty-five arches, whose factory was done with spending twenty-five thousand
dollars, the Council and the gallery of the palace were the work of that era.

In 1694 Lima was born in a monster with two heads and beautiful faces,
two hearts, four arms, two breasts together by cartilage.

From the waist down had little to phenomenal and the encyclopedic Lima Don Pedro de Peralta
wrote under the title Nature Diversions a curious book, which, while having an anatomical
description of the monster, insists to prove that he was endowed with two souls.

Carlos the Bewitched died in 1700, Felipe V, who succeeded him, rewarded the Count of Monclova
making it big in Spain.

Sick and tired octogenarian command, the Viceroy silver arm urged the court to to be replaced.
Without seeing achieved this desire, died on the count of Monclova on 22 September 1702, was buried
in the Cathedral, and his successor, the Marquis de Casteldos Rius, but failed to Lima in June
1707.

Doña Josefa, daughter of the Count of Monclova, continued to dwell in the palace after death the Viceroy,
but one night, and agreed with his confessor, Father Alonso Messiah, picked through a window and
took refuge in the nuns of Santa Catalina, professing with the habit
of Santa Rosa, whose monastery was at the factory.

In May 1710 moved Josefa Portocarrero Lazo de la Vega to the new convent, which was the first
abbess.

III

Four months after his imprisonment, the Royal Court sentencing to
death of Don Fernando Vergara.

This from the very beginning had declared that killing the Marquis, with premeditation, in a fit
of desperation ruined player. Faced with such a frank confession was not the highest court to enforce
the penalty.

Evangelina put into play all spring to free her husband from an infamous death, and in such
despair, came the day appointed for the punishment of the criminal.

Then the self-sacrificing Evangelina brave and decided to do, love
to name their children without such a sacrifice.

Dressed in mourning was made in the palace hall in moments and the Viceroy of Monclova in accordance
with the judges, and said: Don Fernando had murdered the Marquis protected by law, that she was adulterous,
and, surprised by her husband, fled from their wrath, just getting his accomplice's death
outraged husband.

The frequency of visits to the home of the Marquis of Evangeline, the ring of it as a perk
Love in the hand of the corpse, the wounds in the back, the fact of having been found the dead at
the foot of the bed of the lady, and other small details were sufficient grounds for the viceroy,
giving credit to the oracle, ordered the sentence suspended.

The trial judge became the prison to endorse the declaration Ferdinand of his wife. But the clerk
just finished reading when Vergara, seized a thousand found feelings, threw a hideous laugh.

The
poor fellow had gone mad!

A few years later, the wings of death hung over the bed of the noble chaste wife, and a austere
priest lavished on the dying the consolations of religion.

The four sons of kneel expecting the season Evangelina maternal blessing.

Then the devoted victim, forced by her confessor, revealed the terrible secret - the world forget
- they said - the name of the woman who gave you life, but would
have been unforgiving to you if your father had climbed the steps
of the scaffold.

God, who reads my glass conscience, know that before I lost my honor society because you do
not call it a day the children of the executed.

LUCAS Sacrilege

CHRONICLE SEASON OF VICEROY OF PERU VIGÉSIMONONO

I

Which had passed through the plaza of St. Augustine when eleven at night October 22, 1743, would
have been a lump on the cornice of the facade of the church, striving to enter it by a narrow skylight.
Great agility and balance tests had no doubt to make the climber to climb on the ledge, and the
Christian who had referred to would have to cross himself by holding the Evil or goblin at
least.

And do not forget that for those, time was of public voice and fame in certain nights, the plaza
of San Augustine was invaded by a procession of souls in purgatory with candle in hand. I did not take
off or put, but I suspect that with the republic and we have gas put the breath of the Holy Souls,
which are very Mohin and still on the site His Divine Majesty pleased them.

The churchyard was not then the great iron gate decorated today, and nightlife of the city police
had abandoned such, it was difficult to find Asaz round.

Good people of Lima were kept in house at ten in the evening after turning off the bluff of the
door, and the population was fully submerged in darkness, with great contentment of cats and
owls, the devotees of the property of others and given people a loving enterprise.

The prudent reader may not believe in goblins or demons crowned, and as is fashion in these days
of civilization, perhaps he does not believe in God, there is a suspected thief is inserted
through the skylight of the church. Think bad and you will succeed.

Indeed.

Our man with the aid of a rope swung down to the temple, and with resolute step went to the altar.

I
do not know, reader, if you've ever found at night in a vast temple, with no light bulbs that give
off some placed at the bottom of the effigies, and feeling the fateful flight and the cawing
of these birds nesting in the towers and domes. For myself I say nothing has occurred in my
mind an impression more somber and solemn time, and that So I have
to sacristanes and acolytes in the opinion, say no saints, but to
be men more livers of Christianity.

Me laugh the brave of Independence!

Our man came to the sanctuary, opened the recamarín, took out his handkerchief wrapped Custody
the divine Host, leaving on the altar and left the temple by the same skylight that had input.

Only
two days later, on the morning of Saturday 25, when it should be
the renewal of Form, came to discover the theft. Gone was the golden
sun, valued at more than forty thousand dollars, and whose rich pearls,
rubies, diamonds, sapphires, opals and emeralds were present of the
main families of Lima. Although the pedestal was also admirable as
gold v art work did not arouse the greed of the robber.

It is easy
to imagine the uproar that this desecration cause the devout people.
As regards the learned writer of the Journal of Lima, in Nos. 4 and
5 October 1791, was a procession of repentance, sermon on the text
of David: Exurge, Domine, et tuam causam Judica, constant prayers,
lay and sacristanes prison, and posters setting rewards for whistle
the thief. Theaters were closed and mourning was general when running
on undiscovered the offender, challenged the authority of the tremendous
spring ecclesiastical censures and read off candles.

For its part,
the Marquis de Villagarcía, viceroy of Peru, had filled his duty,
teaching all the MPLA in its discretion orders were to capture the
sacrilegious. The express to magistrates and other authorities of
the viceroyalty was followed relentlessly, until late November Lima
became a sheriff of the mayor of Huancavelica Jeronimo Solá, former
Minister of the Indies, with sheets in which he communicated to his
Excellency the thief was lodged in jail and their respective pair
of socks of Biscay. Well said saying that between bonnet and helmet
are things plume.

Bells took to flight, the theater turned to work,
the residents left the mourning and Lima gave feasts and rejoicing.

II

Limiting
ourselves to the plan we have followed in the traditions, come here
to tell a quick review historic-era command of His Excellency Don
José de Mendoza Caamaño y Sotomayor, Villagarcía Marquis of Monroy
and Cusano, Earl of Barrantes and Lord of Vista Alegre, Villanueva
vigésimonono Rubianes and viceroy of Peru by His Majesty Don Felipe
V, and that, age of sixty years, took over the government of these
kingdoms in January 4, 1736.

The Marquis de Villagarcía far resisted
accepting the Viceroyalty of Peru, and persuading one of the king's
ministers to not reject what many covet, said:

- Lord vueseñoría
put me at the feet of His Majesty, whom I serve as fair and law and
picture it to make myself accountable, I found that I should rather
live poor Viceroy die rich gentleman