 Her oval face seemed
made of roses and carnations. Apretadita meat and small in stature, so wisely provided by Nature,
that seemed modeled in wax. His hands were jasmine and Creole feet, held in Sarrió ever seen,
the softness and smoothness of her skin, expired at the pearl and alabaster. On the forehead,
high and narrow as those of Venus Greek, a white Argentine fell loops of her hair blond, as
a skein, so thick as docile and bright, entirely covered his back to below the waist.

- Make fun of your sister, picarilla, you'll soon do the same!

- "I pray for a man? You dotage, Don Mateo.

- You'll tell me soon - said the old man going to another stage to greet the Maza.

In this Pablito approached that of their parents, bringing in your company deserves a faithful friend
special mention. He was the son of the chopper was in the town, and boy that his figure could
be the delight of the spectators in a circus acrobats. Nothing needed to add to his person, powders
or flour, or vermilion, or soot to be converted into clown. He was a clown 'Natural'. His nose
and vividly colored by nature, their crooked eyes, the absence tab, its pitch, the crazy shoulder
width, the arch of his legs and, above all, the grotesque grimace that accompanies the talk
or growl, causing laughter, without wigs and makeup. Pisces knew well (as it was called or was
called) and it was deeply sorry and even angry. To counter these native provisions comic of his
face, never had determined not to laugh, and keep his promise faithfully. In addition, for
the same effect used his words wisely interspersed with more harsh expletives and fearful of the
national repertoire, and several of his particular invention. But this, instead of producing
the desired effect, helped to awaken the joy among acquaintances.

The only somewhat took him seriously was Pablito. Pisces and Pablito were born to love and admire.
The point of conjunction of these two stars was the horses gender. Pisces, trained by his
father since childhood, was the best rider Sarrió, therefore Pablito for the person most worthy of admiration.
Rosendo's son was the boy in rich people: for Pisces, must be, of
course, the most respectable and worthy of veneration that was on
the planet