 

VI

God, who, as the saying goes, tightens, but does not drown, he
permitted that sad night continue one day very cheerful, with clouds
sweep the sky and a sun that, though pale and cold, illuminated the
valley and decorated the tops of the mountains surrounding them in
haloes of shimmering light.

I received the first greeting of the sun's life-giving Mother Earth as one of the largest benefits
that could grant me the sky in the middle of the dark loneliness that I saw, and my uncle was
quick to recommend to use the "clears", which was to be a long "hard" for signs that he considered infallible,
to "get used to the weapons and take the land as was due and the sooner. " He gave me the advice
reports and programs that seemed excellent, and having no other breaks my scope and more tempting
my taste, I chose so I proposed, and prepared at once to take to the mountain, which is worth
so much there and the world cultured and refined "into the street", ie, the happiness of God,
"to killing time. "

Before leaving her house went into the doctor, who was taking the opportunity to greet the almost
daily visit to my uncle did, particularly since his last serious illness. He was a young man
who would walk in their thirties, not very stout, but stout complexion;
short hair and beard, black and strong, looking strong, but not harshly,
nice face and voice of words very sober, clean, loose-fitting, modest
dress, and a native of a village of coastal Nansa.

This was all that he knew at that time. His visit was brief, and very graciously said goodbye,
leaving very pleased that I find in Tablanca, more by what was written on the face and mediquillo
air, that the weights their clothes made by my uncle to introduce me. We went down together
to the door, throwing it right away Canberra by the people and I on the other diametrically opposite
to the mountain.

Acompañábame Chisco, highly recommended by gift from his master, in the same outfit and the very shoes
he had known me in the passage of the mountains, and we went with the two a big dog hound, named
Cinnamon, a very unusual breed to me so great that it would perpetuated in my uncle's house since
his father was a waiter and hunter.

Chisco had a escopetona Piston with wide waxed twine reinforced clamps on very long barrel grungy,
a powder horn and a bag of green bandana and the pellet BBs they were mixed with it. I an elegant
and fine Lafaucheux two guns, holster corresponding hanger, wide and sturdy boots spiked soles,
leather leggings English and all baggage, in short, a hunter figurine. Chisco looked at me askance and
even smile awhile, particularly when fixed in my shoes, and, above all, every time I looked
in the soft clay slip or on slabs of encalabrinar trails. At last he came to plead that final
step would have no choice to put up with pair of clogs as yours, that my clothes, "could happen" and
that, in terms of weaponry, "They would see." If he cannot go on mozallón! For one thing,
neither he nor I were then actual "game" but a walk, just as in lowland walks a man with a
cane in his hand or both vacant, the walker there equips weapons and ammunition for what could
happen.

As the excursion it was very entertaining and also very helpful because it gave me a good appetite
and better sleep, the next day I repeated, though different side of the mountain, but extend much
more than the previous radius of my might, because the theater of my experiences was vast, and learning
very tough.

After three or four days walking in these trials and continuing the time cheerful and spring Pete
joined us (Agapito) Salces' Chorcos "mote, son of a home of my uncle, good Hunter also, like
most men of that valley, something awkward and lengthy Magin and disjointed members. He had known me
at home one night, and I had fallen very grace your degustation and
"things", for what my uncle, who was fishing in the air and sometimes
means of entertaining, provided that from the next day to accompany
me add to Chisco in my wanderings.

He was also very fond of it, and they both tasted like liquor glory Fraser and my cigarettes in
my suitcase as soon as tasted.