 The Indian thought for a long time, dismounted, made a trade frames
and asked me to hand over the horse from Joe in Agua Larga. My servant, who came ago, at the foot
of the mule that was carrying one of the girls, carry my exhausted frame. "Now, friend, fix the
rent." Was turning the straw hat, pulled and returned to put on the belt the inevitable pair
of new sandals, I spoke at length about the conditions of sorrel, which was galloping, which is rare
mountain horses, etc. Last burst: Wanted three heavy weights! Oh naive Indian, who was descended
from a handful to Spanish gold by a score of glass! I was magnanimous and gave him five, which
earned me some tips on how to accelerate the pace of sorrel.

I finally got to Chimborazo, after transposing hills and mountains. When losing a summit I still
had a higher one, he would stop and ask if it was not a toy colossal prank. Where do I go? How is
it possible that there, behind those hills giants in those peaks are lost in the clouds, inhabit
a village, there is a city, a civilized society? I just surrendered to the eternal piano went next
to me on the shoulder pain of ten Indians panting. Up, then. I do not know if any of the children
of Buenos Aires, born and educated the spectacle of the desert always open, you have happened
on his first trip in countries mountain the same phenomenon to me, that is, Sermo An effort to
persuade that in the narrow valleys, steep slopes, live a people of sedentary habits and a social
organization similar to ours. I remember traveling in Switzerland for first time (Coming from the
plains of Lombardy), I wondered how men could cling to rocks cold and sterile, so rebellious
to human labor, instead of going to sit on his royal fertile and generous land, where the spade
is lost without effort. That same night, Schiller I answered admirably in this dialogue between
Tell and his son

Walther, showing the Bannberg .-- Father, is it true that on this mountain, trees bleed when they
are hurt with the ax?

Tell - Who told you that, boy?

Walther - The pastor noted that there is a magic in the trees, and, when a man has abused his
hand out of the pit after his death.

Tell - There is magic in those trees, it is true. You see there, far away, those high mountains
white tip which rises to heaven?

Walther - are the snowy night resound like thunder and where they fall avalanches.

Tell - Yes, my son long ago that the avalanche would have buried the village of Altdorf, if the
forest is there, above us, not serve as a bulwark.

Walther, after a moment of reflection: - Father, there are districts where there are mountains?

Tell
- When it comes down from our mountains and goes all the way down
along the course the river, you reach a vast open area where no foaming
torrents, where rivers are slow and easy.

There, on all sides, the corn grows wild in great plains and the
country is like a garden.

Walther - Well, my father, why do not descend to rush into this beautiful country, rather than
live here in the torment and anxiety?

Tell - This country is good and beautiful as the sky, but those who have not cultivated crop
they have sown! [11].

And Tell your child explain what is freedom.

No need, indeed, in Colombia.

I understand now the tenacious and tough love of mountain for his country! Is there certainly
a community more close and constant between man and nature, in the Pampas dilated, solemn and monotonous,
full of force at dawn, noon stunning, sad at dusk, never intimate and communicative. The mountain
is smile and comfort, the pampa weeps with us, but he cries like a giant pain and solemn, above
our pettiness human. The mountain's shape, is color, gives the pleasure of painting, sculpture
or architecture, specifically when, the pampa soaks the soul in the
vague feeling deep music, infinite, but report!

... Also loved the plain, also in it, oh, poet, casts its lively and vigorous root the tree
of liberty! ...

Chimborazo is a point on the road on which stand two or three houses,
one of which is something by way of an inn, where, after a long speech
to the owner, you get a lunch consisting of a broth with potatoes,
potatoes and broth hard thin, followed by a piece of salted meat,
the meat into small pieces and pachyderm.

Is another privileged regions for coffee. The temperature, determined not by latitude, but by
lifting begins to vary, the transpiration stops, cool blasts begin to caress his face, and atmospheric
pressure, becomes more faint, somewhat difficult breathing to the lung compact air accustomed to the
hot.

There, I said goodbye to the family of my colleague, the British minister, who planned to spend the
night somewhat later, in Agua Larga, while I thank my sorrel, had hoped to arrive to Savannah,
advance to Facatativá and take there the carriage, which, according to my calculations, I would
be waiting on the eve.

Never would have guessed that this robust man who shook hands warmly
and I replied with gratitude, succumbed three months later, almost
in my arms, down by an icy breath that was to freeze them in their
lungs.

I'll never forget the deep and quiet desperation of a young woman, beautiful and elegant, which
had been sacrificed looking for career advancement of her husband, alone, surrounded by her
little children, in the most Far most of the world, embarking on the sad path of return, while
the body of partner I slept the sleep of death, there in the remote
high!

We had the dark soul before the corpse, thinking everyone in the country, at home so far and
the vicissitudes of this race vagabond ... Rest in the bosom friend from the local people who
mixed his tears with theirs, and according to the beautiful phrase Soffia, the same sky that
would covered his body on English soil, ground covers Colombian!

Set off, carrying with me a boy mounted, since the boy goodbye Chimba
walk, whose usefulness for the trip had been quite problematic.

The baggage would forward, and according to my calculation, should already be in Bogotá. Just
wearing a bag with my roles and values.

Water the way up Long is lovely, my sorrel nobly marching, climbing the safety of the mule, but his
walk infernal. Four o'clock in the afternoon when I arrived in Agua Larga point where some excellent
road to the savannah, passable even for carriages. As there no news found not mine, I ordered
my child squire go ahead, to wait on Apple, the first point of the savanna, while I talked some
time with distinguished gentlemen of the town who had come to greet me.

When I went traveling, I felt very cold. Long water is reputed to be the site more glacial mountains.
The height helps a lot, but above all, exposure to winds whistling coming two or three openings in the
surrounding hills. With what pleasure I threw my horse galloping along the vast road! It is
an unparalleled delight that comes undone by the passage of the mule. But one hour later,
neither shadow of my boy, it was very time must be achieved. Did the earth had swallowed? Not
suit me, because I had everything I wanted. Retrace my path, I asked everywhere, no one had
seen; really uneasy, I paused to reflect on the party to take, when an Indian I spent suggested
the likelihood that the cachifo had taken the low road, which greatly shorten the distance. Continued
quiet.

Rose, rose steadily, and again I conclude that when asked where he was interminable climb the
promised land. The nature had changed, and now my eyes stretched vast and luxuriant forests various
pines. In front, inaccessible peaks. Would also transpose? Of Suddenly, a gasp escaped me
in the chest.

As we rounded a bend, a wide flat flat, sun-drenched, my eyes dilated. I was in the Alto del Roble,
pride entrance door to the savannah of Bogotá. I looked back and saw the distance spread the
series of mountains that had been transposed to reach that height:
2700 meters was above the sea!

What quirk of nature that lay at the summit pampa? How is the most ignorant eye that this should be
in primitive times the bed of a huge lake superior! Printing is deep by contrast, in vain, the spirit
is ready, the fact surpasses all expectation.

The savannah entry presents the appearance of an immense circle bounded
by a chain circular low-lying hills.

It is a picturesque plain unattractive, and entering it is necessary
to leave the lovely view that I left behind.

At Apple, the closer the hotel to find some of my carriage, I saw
... My poor baggage abandoned under a runner!

It took me more than pleas to determine the carriers to lead them to the next village Facatativá,
which arrived late, finding in front of the hotel the clerk, who, despite his two days in advance,
had failed even the coach to get to Bogota. We spent the night in a hotel detestable, cold a tomb,
and the next day, after five hours of walking through the savanna, we enter end in the capital
of the United States of Colombia.

It was 13 January 1882, and it was just a month since we were traveling on Caracas.

From Vienna to Paris leaves in 28 hours!

Admittedly, when I was ten years old, employed in my family one day to make the two leagues of
swamps that separated Flores in Buenos Aires. Also ... begins to do while I was ten years!

Now is the time to take an overall view of this vast region of Latin
South extending from the Isthmus of Panama to the unexplored wilderness
where Amazon starts to run, called the Viceroyalty of Santa Fe, under
Spanish domination, New Granada later, and now has claimed for itself
the glorious name of Colombia, meeting, which covered the three republics
of the North, confederated under the inspiration of Bolivar separated
the day after his death.

Colombian soil ranges between 73 and 84 degrees west longitude and 12 latitude North, 5 south
latitude (Paris meridian), covering an area of ??13,300 milliammeter square, on which lives
a population of just over three million souls.

The nation is divided politically into nine sovereign states, which are: Antioch (capital Medellín),
Bolívar (Cartagena), Boyacá (Tunja), Cauca (Popayán), Cundinamarca (Bogotá, capital Union, but
not federalized), Magdalena (Santa Marta), Panama (Panama), Santander (Socorro) Tolima (Neiva).

From
Ecuador, the Andes, divided into three main arms, determine the system Colombia's mountainous
terrain, forming three large valleys: the Magdalena, Atrato and Cauca, irrigated by three rivers
that give it its name. The weather, hot and unhealthy in lowlands, especially near streams, fresh
and healthy in the highest ...

It is not my intention to make a geographical description of Colombia, which can easily be in any treaty.

By
a coincidence that corroborates the historical laws of Vico, Montesquieu and Herder, could easily
raise the topographic map of Colombia to study the nature of children of different sections.
Here, restless, wandering, adventurous, there, sedentary rough for work, economic and persevering.
Further, shady, suspicious, gloomy; in Cauca, poets, dreamers, and vibrant, in Bogotá, religion,
scholars, decision makers, eminently social. And above all, an intimate bond that connects them
of strong character more personality that distinguishes a Colombian of a child in Venezuela or
Ecuador, which a Russian, a Persian.

What's inside of those thousands of miles? In the low part known, all that the imagination more
ambitious can ask the crust of the earth, from the most valuable tropical products to the fruits
of the temperate zones. Cauca, that territory as similar to our Chaco for its mysterious darkness,
the Cauca, which borders the northwest to the Isthmus of Panama and will confined to the deserts
of Brazil in the extreme southeast, is known only, not totally, the part that runs parallel to
the Pacific, the vast and vague territory of the South is so fertile, the rare few data brought
by passengers, resemble legends, is and will be much time unknown.

The future of Colombia is huge, but unfortunately remote.

Will require that the excess Europe's population first fill the vast American regions still uninhabited,
which attract emigration in the first place, by the analogy of the weather and transport facilities
for the current to take the course of Colombia. How many years will pass before they complete
the far north-west Argentine pampas or dilated, without the Australia and North Africa? But
if that future is remote in the sense of a final transformation, it is not about immediate progress
it will accelerate. Colombia, after his long and bloody fighting, now aspires to peace, whose
sentiment begins to take root in a Deep in the heart of town. Governments concerned and the need
to do kind of sacrifices to provide the country with a system of regular communication channels,
without national wealth which will forever unknown.

The current political organization in Colombia is extremely lacking, and this view I advance
After careful study, with details of which do not burden these pages is shared illustrated today
by many Colombians. The republican, representative, federal, is there carried to extremes. Each
state is sovereign, legal autonomy incompatible with with the development of the national idea.
While among us there is sovereign the Argentine people, the governors of the provinces are
natural agents of PEN, Congressional authority is above all, without
other limitations than those determined by the constitution, giving
citizens the constitutional complaint before the Court Supreme Court,
in Colombia, as I said, each state is sovereign, ruled by a president
and general government engaged by two delegates plenipotentiary the
Senate Amphictyonic kind of advice.

The laws of Congress can be vetoed by Most state legislatures and not enforceable until they
have been approved by them. Add that the President of the Union lasts only two years while
the presidential term in some states is much higher, think of the isolation constant of the
various sections of that vast body and tell if it is possible that develop and take root national
sentiment.

Then, the lack of a federal capital, the living symbol of the union, which radiates over the nation
whole.

Bogotá, Colombia's capital and the state of Cundinamarca, staying in their midst to local authorities
and the nation. It is the Argentines who must be remembered disadvantages and dangers of this coexistence,
they know that it is sufficient in such cases poor digestion of a governor to bring conflicts
that may call into question all what is worse, the national existence itself. Thus, in Bogotá,
Congress has been mocked, insulted, stoned by angry bar ... and secure of impunity. We among
us sad and similar memories!

I understand that the rivalry determined by the sovereign and autonomous itching all between States
of Colombia, making it necessary for long the capital Bogota, accepted and preferred precisely because
of the weakness of its actions distant. But apart from its topographical position, default rails, difficult
but possible, can save, Bogotá eligible all for, once federalized, the capital of a nation
like Colombia. Has the climate, has a tradition of conquest, illustration, intellectual brilliance,
but the children of Cauca and Boyacá are there guests. Nationally there is a national center.

I
repeat: Colombia happy if he got up his capital in the sea, the eternal vehicle of civilization,
instead of keeping the region lost in the clouds, out of touch with the world and without direct
action on their collective progress. But, while this is impossible, and will be for many years,
is that Colombians must be persuaded of the need give strength and cohesion to national sentiment,
to make that kind of league than a puff can be done died out, in a human group, compact, with an
ideal, a conception identical to patriotism. Such has been the work of Argentines in the last thirty
years, and all men who have governed, emerging from different parties, have followed the same path.
That progress, national, this obliteration of the local passion, once so lively, net is clear
and the almost complete abandonment of the name have made Confederation Argentina, to refer to our country.
Today we say Argentina, and soon shall we say as do the Chileans and Peruvians, Argentina, that
is, unity, the motherland, the people one. The federal system is
excellent for its administrative decentralization, for the facilities
which gives the local progress, trace routes in harmony with the specific
conditions of climate, the character, tradition and custom, by the
constant weight of political power, the full alternative, but understood
as in Colombia, I have to declare pregnancy that's a germ of death