 All the eyes of the traveler is wild and solemn. There are walks along the bottom
deep gorges, or skirts above wrinkled, which will link in tortuous turns, leading the traveler from
one surprise. Wherever colossal rise cliffs as a single piece of dark ink and fearful aspect, now
in their flanks torn landslide, now naked as towers or bastions of titanic strength, or covered
weeds and pine forests decimated by the hurricanes.

Shortly after you reach the climax of these gorges lone, determined the opposite direction of the
river systems. The Black Water-basin, stream tormented below its waters to meet the Trient,
opens there in all its wild beauty of landscapes, enclosed between the mountains of Brevent, which
will end in Balme, and that, starting in it snowed the Needles-Rojas, head north to finish in
the Valley Rhone, presenting in its course the beautiful snowy Buet and the group of mountains
called Tooth or Muela-the-South. The creek, Black Water (L'eau-noire) struck down and sparkling
by a deep bed, interrupted by large granite boulders and banks black clay shale that give it
its murky color. Wherever the most romantic multiply groups of hills, wrinkled skirts, very
profound and cavernous gullies and steep cliffs, among them, the roar of many waterfalls in the shade
of natural forest fir and at the bottom of beautiful miniature meadows, delaying some poor
villages in most picturesque situations.

That is the Valorsina, living village rocked by rumors of "Black Water,
which receives the tribute of Barberina, torrent short distance the
road holds the iris of a beautiful waterfall 100 meters high.

Soon begins the territory of the Swiss canton Valleys (Valais). The passes back via dreadful,
bordering the great hill of Great Gradería (Le Gros-Perron), base of the peak having the name
"Head-Black." The road opened to peak at the huge rock on the edge of abysses that frighten,
from up to a cave carved laboriously long honor to the Swiss, who show High interest in the
ways of communication. Returning a bend in the gorge is the union of the narrow throat, or
basins of water, Black and Trient, stream descending setentrional end of the mountains which form
the Mont Blanc chain.

Two hours later, when saved Forclaz neck (to 1.516 meters high), the traveler loses sight of that
great chain of mountains that left behind, to the south, the forests
Via fir disappear completely, the barren gorges, cliffs, chasms and
streams deep away, the picture offered in the eyes of passers is entirely
different which has been referred to with awe: it is sunny, peaceful
and grandiose at the same time.

The Savoy has ended and the Swiss country, full of charm and majesty, has its contrasts rich and
complicated colossal mountains and valleys and steep. It is the city which Vallesina there captivates
the eye.

The canton of Valais valleys or is between two large chains of the Alps: the which continues
south of Mont Blanc and, based limits between Italy and Switzerland,
is to bifurcate in the hills that separate Gries, Fibi, and Mutthorn,
spreading thence to the cantons Ticino, Graubünden and the Valleys
to the north and follows the huge knot of mountains Diechterhorn called,
where he has his sources, the Rhone, and the general name of "Alpes
Bernese 'will end up with one of its branches in the buttresses of
the Diablerets, near Lake Geneva, between the cantons of Vaud and
valleys.

The vast basin of such intermediate big chains is the upper Rhone, comprising the entire Canton
of which I speak. Its territory is of hydrography and topography as bifurcated or complex, which actually
is a set of 41 more or less significant valleys, crisscrossed by rivers all converge towards
the central valley of the Rhone. This multiplication of abutments, valleys and rivers almost parallel
to each other and perpendicular to the line of the Rhone, matching the stupendous mountains
that serve as the generating element of the mountain system, gives the canton of Valais, seen
from above, the most varied, interesting and picturesque. The canton, which is the third of the
Confederation for its territorial extension, numbers about 90.800 inhabitants and measures 178
kilometers long from east to west, by a latitude of 17 km from south to north.

The Valais is relatively one of the poorest cantons of the Confederation, and under one aspect
the less fortunate. Exclusively agricultural as it is, lacks its own industry and trade; although
economic development will be significant and, by virtue of the railway, starting the shores
of Lake Leman and tracing the course of the Rhone, is now coming to Zion (the capital of Canton)
and will be continued until we reached the Upper Italy via the Simplon. Not too late you can
go from Paris to Milan by train, through all the mountains of Switzerland (Jura, the Alps, etc..)
and the High Italian.

The vines or the production of wine, soft usually form the basis of agriculture Vallesina, and
secondly cereals vegetables and fruits, grains and the modest offspring of cattle.

The city of the Valley is, alas, the classic country of the box and the idiocy, diseases horrible,
especially the second, they have there the most distressing character. Perhaps this dreadful calamity
(as in the whole world is a chain of compensation) is the leading cause of the virtues that distinguish
Vallesina. The feeling of love and brotherhood is there deep, and the sweet and gracious spirit
of hospitality is proverbial and common. The sad show idiots (cretins) beings who, if allowed
a rude phrase and may seem ungodly, could be appointed with the very
precise name of the eggs moved human species that show, I say, is
deeply painful for the observer philanthropist.

Those beings born to the inaction, the fetus until the time of death, in whom all faculties of the
soul and heart seem to be absent or in eternal sleep, as if God had denied his ineffable breath,
and inert mass whose sun itself seems to be powerless to produce an emotion, have led naturally very
tender solicitude to perpetuate itself sweetest inclinations. The need to assist and care for
these creatures without life, as blessed, and the humility of character that the curb and have
inspired idiocy peaceful inhabitants of the Valais, where the ideas have fueled pious, benevolent
customs, the religious poetry full of traditions, simplicity in taste, modesty in all aspirations,
and a tendency to asceticism and the contemplative beatitude, which give to the people a particular
appearance.

Wherever you are on public roads, a short distance, two objects that attract a lot attention, revealing
the nature of Vallesina: stone niche at the edge set the road, small shrines containing statues
of Christ and the Virgin or of saints, coagulated Feedback or relics and garlands of flowers
and highly revered by the villagers, and next sacred niche, or at least of a cross, a fountain or a
well-preserved spruce channel outdoors, throwing on some wood or stone trough a beautiful stream
of water crystal and delicious. The niche or the cross reveals the deep religious feeling these
people, the source indicates the forecast charity for the benefit of pedestrian and chivalry.

Until recently the people of the golf coarse feed some concerns they were very harmful. They believed,
for example, that the birth of an idiot in the family was a real joy, a sign of divine protection,
since the idiot away home of many calamities and was born condemned to purge his miserable stupidity
and inaction the sins of the whole family. Thus, far from the peasants seek removal of the
disease supported it. Today these concerns or have disappeared completely in some places,
or in others have become so weak that will soon be extinct. Traffic with foreigners and the other
inhabitants of Switzerland, the development given to primary education and roads, the efforts
made by public authority and philanthropies in order to remove the two diseases, and the moral
awakening that was produced in these populations, By virtue of democratic
institutions that govern the Canton and require the active of all
citizens, are fighting very good success with those calamities.

They are complex origin, since the causes not only exist in the exposure of sites to cold winds
from the mountains, the nature of water and atmospheric air and a vice traditional or organic
estate in the constitution, but also in the filth, life sedentary and concerns.

The history of the canton of Valais (whose last foreign ruler was Napoleon) is uninteresting, but the
struggles of their matches have been rather stormy and bloody, owing to the tenacity of previous
bishops and feudal lords to maintain their privileges, monopolies and tyranny, excluding the people
and government welfare. The fully democratic constitution Canton of data from 1839, and despite the aristocratic
reaction of 1844, passed the country still governed by liberal institutions and men friends of
democracy. Add that languages ??spoken in the Canton are the French and German, quite altered
or converted dialects or Patu.

* * * * *

The neck down towards the plain Forclaz Martigny, which dominates the show the view is as great
as picturesque.

In front are the mountains of complicated Bernese Alps, covered with fir trees or grasslands in their
skirts, showing off some flanks or and naked peaks, and whose highest eminences diamond shine like
the snowy crowns of 'Diablerets, Arbelt, Strubel, etc. "In the background is the Rhone Valley,
violently truncated at right angles and converging valleys "Dranzer" - river that descends
from the Swiss-Italian chain and flows into the Rhône near Martigny, - and the nutrients, leaving
between the labyrinth of wild mountains to swell the same Rhône a little below the Dranzer
confluence. Finally, around and under the same step of the traveler, is developed a vast complication
of very rugged foothills that offer three superimposed orders of
vegetation and landscapes: above, on the crests of the mountains,
dense virgin forests firs and pines, whose dark ink has a severity
almost solemn, in the center down, in a hundred inclines, narrow ravines,
valleys smiling and shining plains broken forests, wild hazel, beech
and other trees of lower heights and innumerable orchards and plantations
of walnut, chestnut, cherry, pear and many others fruit trees grown
between crops of hay, flax, potatoes and mixed vegetables, trees that
shade the road now lined streets thick endless vaults, now shown scattered
into a thousand irregular groups, giving them the most picturesque
countryside range in the forms inks and vegetation .-- Down, finally,
lay the vineyards carpeting vast areas, both in the surrounding hills
and slopes to the valleys but as the same, dotted towns and villages
look more funny and original.

       

After crossing the small town (Bourg) of "Martigny", a little over 1,000 residents, located at
the foot of a mountain and the magnificent ruins of an ancient feudal castle the tour via the
plain entirely Dranzer Valley. After twenty minutes the traveler going to resting in "Martigny-city"
in the heat of the sun and the fatigues of a march ten hours done at the discretion of the
mazorral mule. This small town, the second location of Canton, it holds only about 1,100 residents.
It lies at the foot of the mountain range that separates Rhone valley and the Dranzer and almost
at the confluence of two rivers, in central a lively, fertile and well cultivated plain. Despite
the originality that is seen in the structure of neighboring houses and bridges, the city itself
does not offer any interest, but as a center of agricultural movement in Valais.

Two hours later we took a railroad train, then recently opened, which leads to the shores of
Lake Geneva. The countryside is remarkably varied. Dominated and narrowed the valley by the
spurs of two opposite hills, coming down almost to be played in St.-Mauritius by the stirrups of
the group of the South and the Morcles, wherever it offers nice contrast the immense alpine
embankments, and vegetation of severe dark side, the large landslides that cross the foot of the
hills, the course run over the Rhone, whose ashen waters overflow on the rocky plain, producing small
swamps, and plantations cheerful of all kinds in the bottom of which highlight many villages, not
dowdy in appearance, but interest naked. Pissevache the beautiful waterfall produced by the stream or
creek of Sallenche, which plunges noisily between wild gorges, called attention to their shapes.
It measures 64 meters in elevation drop, and her show is very nice
effect on the plain.

Saint-Maurice, ancient-looking town entirely feudal, with 1.250 inhabitants, is the only place that
attracts attention all the way from Martigny to port Boveret on Lake Leman.

Some hikers very fond of certain antiquities often stop there to see curiosities of little value.
At that point the train splits, with the Rhone through: the line on the left bank is going
to end up in Boveret, that of the right bank, which is very recent, runs its course in Bex,
Aigle and Villeneuve, the bank pays setentrional of Geneva, by Verey, and follow direction to
Lausanne in several cantons of central Switzerland and Western.

A steamer took us in a time when a storm threatened the brunt lake, Boveret to Vevey, interesting
and curious city or state the canton of Vaud.

If the reader has kindly accepted the plan that I intend to continue to draw features principal of
the Swiss cantons, moral and material, allow me to speak before of the three major cities of Vaud,
which I had occasion to visit briefly indicate conditions characteristic of this small but very
interesting confederated republic.

The territory of Vaud (in German Waadtländer or Waadt), which is by extension the fourth in
the Confederation, mostly belonging to the middle region or undulating alti- Central Switzerland.
Limited by the crest south side of Lake Leman, the end starts at the top of the upper Rhone valley
and the lower tap limits Geneva extending from the heights of the
Bernese Alps in the fridge Diablerets, until Jura, on the summits
of Mont-d'Or and Dole, from the French border.

That territory has the more irregular contours, starting in the upper limits Rhone and the Alps
with the cantons Valleys and Bern, and the central plateau, to the east, N. O, and N, in Neuchâtel.

Although
in the Canton exist in all three small lakes, one of them (de Joux)
second order, the most interesting are the Leman Vaud, Neuchâtel and
Morat, where has a very large part of banks.

Measures vaudense territory, mostly long 100 km NE to SW, enclosing an area of ??3.850 square
kilometers. In its floor, very sunny and fertile and admirably grown, draws much attention downward
and small chain of mountains Jorat. This, with its graceful inflections, determines not only
the hydrographic system of Canton, but also the thousands of picturesque undulating small valleys
and hills, inclines and hilly and broken in the central plains the country. That chain, destined
by nature to maintain the balance between two water systems, was born in Vevey on the shore
near the lake, coasting along the EO to address ahead of Lausanne,
and then go to NO, away from the Leman, Sarraz towards at the foot
of the main spurs of the Jura.

Thus, the loop is Jorat transverse splice between the Bernese Alps and the mountains Jurassic.

Beautiful in their forms and vegetation - that offer the most smiling wherever landscapes - the
Jorat chain, which rarely reaches elevation to 1,000 meters, is interesting
for the demarcation to which results in agriculture, and the separation
that occurs between the water discharging on Lake Leman, to go to
the Mediterranean, which tend toward the valley of the Aar to down
the Rhine to the North Sea, in quite opposite direction.

The river Venoge that and its tributaries, rises in the Jura Mountains and flows into Lake Geneva,
between Morges and Ouchy is the only center hydrographic some consideration corresponding to the
valley of the Rhone. On the opposite side of the mountains of Jorat are: the Orb, whose waters
are the main basis Lake Neuchâtel, and Broy (Broye), which irrigates the cantons of Vaud and
Fribourg, as the small lake of Morat and then pours the Neuchâtel. The Sarina, hydrographic
center of Fribourg, also irrigates a small part of Vaud in the mountainous region of the Bernese
Alps.

If the ends of Canton, is, in the alpine mountains and Jurassic, the composition geological,
vegetation, agriculture, livestock, industry and customs have respectively the conditions common
to the upper regions of Switzerland, in the central part Double lap of Mount Jorat, everything
has a look that pleases the eye and seduce the Traveler - all follow the economic laws of
physics and high plains. There appears life everywhere, full of poetry, freshness and vigor.

The
territory is naturally divided into three regions with their appearance and vegetation individuals.
In the mountainous, mainly on the side of the Jura meadows are rich natural populated by shepherds,
cattle, cheese and villas, and large and thick pine forests, beech and fir trees harvested for
timber trade. In the foothills and rolling plains Jorat system, countless snuff plantations,
cereals, flax and hemp plants oilseeds and medicinal, brood of excellent horses, and beautiful
woods or orchards highly utilized fruit trees such as fig, almond, olive, chestnut, apple and
walnut. Finally, on the banks of Lake Geneva (and partly on the lakes Neuchâtel and Morat) there
is a wide stretch of over 50 kilometers long, which Soil is composed
of rolling hills and inclines towards the lake completely covered
belt countless vineyards and dotted with villages or small towns,
villages, hamlets capricious and graceful villas or rooms countryside.

It is on that long stretch to take almost all the major population centers, whose steeples, houses
and terraces look out over the clear and blue mirror of Lake Geneva. The exploitation of salt marshes
and salt springs and gemma of rich mines of asphalt, marble, iron, important stones, sulfur,
coal and other substances also gives the Canton, in a remarkable proportion, the nature of
mining [14].