 Are you? - Seeing Ferragut said, no surprise, as if they had separate him shortly before.

He
explained his presence at this late hour.

Took a long time without visiting the Aquarium. Octopus tank was for her and the cage of tropical
birds, colorful and cries, which adds to the solitude of a melancholy woman.

Adored the monsters that lived on the other side of the glass, and before going to lunch there
felt the irresistible need to see them. He feared that the watchdog had not taken good care during
his absence.

- Look how beautiful you are!

He noted the pond, which looked empty.

Dead in its water and soil of coarse sand not noticed the slightest tremor animal. Ferragut's
eyes followed her, and lectured by long contemplation, was found in the three guests.

With the powerful mimicry of its kind, had become minerals. Eyes only the experts could find,
each matted in a crack in the rocks, disrupting voluntary smooth skin with bumps and wrinkles like
those of the stone.

Its ability to change color allowed to acquire their hard socket, and thus disguised as three
rocky tumors, treacherously waited over their victims, just as if they were at sea.

- Soon you will see all its majesty - Freya continued, as if speaking of something that belonged -. The
guard is going to feed them ... Poor! Nobody cares about them, all detest. I need additional
meals.

As if the food smelled proximity, one of three stones was stirred with polychrome chill. His swelling
was elastic wrap.

Passed through the color stripes, clouds blush ranging from red to
green, circles that are inflated on the swelling, trembling form outgrowths.

Among des opened one eye wrinkles are yellow and of fierce and stupid fixity, a balloon tarnished
and evil, like that of snakes, which looked at the glass as if he could see beyond of this wall
of diamond.

- I know! - Freya cried with joy -. I think I know! ...

And listed the abilities of these monsters, those who attached great intelligence. They were
those who had rolled, as astute builders, stones piled on the floor
forming bastions, to whose coat is camouflaged to fall upon their
victims.

At sea, when wanted to surprise a tasty oyster meat, hidden waiting to open its two valves to
feed on water and light, and introduced a stone among them, dipping below the gap deadly tentacles.

His
love of liberty was another reason for the enthusiasm of Freya.

If you had more than a year locked in the Aquarium, sick with sadness
and gnawed his legs to kill himself.

- Ah, nice and strong bandits!
- Continued, with hysterical enthusiasm -.

I love them!

I would like to have them in my house, as have the goldfish in a jar, feed them at all hours, see
how to eat ...

Ferragut felt the same anxiety I had experienced a morning at the shrine of Virgil.

"She's crazy!" He said mentally.

But in spite of his madness, vehemently wanted the scent of sweet perfume which exhaled his
flesh for the neckline of her dress.

No longer the silent world saw who was swimming or ramp with a sizzle of color behind crystals.
Only she was. And heard, like distant music, his voice, that would explain briefly all the particulars
of those stones that went to be animals, those balloons, to swell,
showing their bodies, turning to hide under a gelatinous swell.

It was a sack, a bag, a rubber mask, inside which there was only water or air. Among the roots
of his arms was the mouth, strong jaws armed with a peak resembling
parrot.

Breathing, her skin a crack opened and closed alternately. One of sides arose a funnel-shaped
tube, which also swallowed water respirable feeding for both inputs the gill cavity. The many armed
wings of suckers operated as pressure vessels. They used to grab and hold its prey, ramp and
run.

The glassy eye of one of the monsters hovering and disappearing among
the soft folds evoked memories of Freya.

He spoke in a low voice, for itself, without worrying about Ferragut, I was disoriented by
the incoherence of his words. This view brought to Octopus his memory the Eye of the morning.

The
sailor asked, "Who am Eye ?...» And again he said mentally Freya I was mad to learn that this
name was that of a snake friend, a grid-backed reptile that served
as a necklace and watches at home beyond the island of Java, between
forest exhaled a perfume irresistible, covered sunlight to flower
trembling and monstrous resembling animals, towns phosphorescent night
stars, leaping from tree tree.

- I was dancing naked, with a transparent
veil tied around my hips and one floating on my head ... Danced for
hours, as a Brahmin priestess before the image Siva's terrible, and
Eye of the morning following my dances with his elegant wavy ... I
I believe in God Siva.

Do you not know to Siva? ...

Ferragut side gave the gloomy god.

What he wanted to know was why he had taken to Java, the island paradise and mysterious.

- My husband was a Dutch commander - said she -.

We were married in Amsterdam and followed him to Asia.

Ulysses protested to the news. Was not a wise husband? ... Had not been to the Andes in search
of prehistoric beasts? ...

Freya hesitated a moment to memory, but your question was short.

- That's right - said naturally -. The teacher was my second husband. I have been married twice.

Captain
did not have time to express their surprise. At the top of the pool,
on the surface crystal silver by the sun, became a human shadow.

It was the silhouette of the guardian. Down three bags were moved to the reports. Freya was
trembling with emotion, as an enthusiastic spectator and impatient.

Something fell in the water, dropping little by little, a piece of dead sardines, which was releasing
strands of flesh and yellow scales.

A strange solidarity seemed to exist between monsters. Stirring to eat only one who looked
more closely at the dam. Perhaps undergoing voluntarily to a turn, maybe your eyes only reached
a little beyond its tentacles.

Which was closer to the glass suddenly unfolded with the violence of a spring escapes, a projectile
that explodes.

He jumped, hit the ground running by of his legs and taking other high like a bunch of reptiles.
Wreck report is star became monstrous, filling almost all glass with
his body swollen with rage and water, coloring the foil of green,
blue, red.

The tentacles grabbed the unfortunate prey, bending inward to bring to his mouth. The beast is
contracted, it was flattened, to rest on the floor.

Legs disappeared, and the sight was just a quivering bag by passing as a wave, from end to
end, gastrointestinal swelling. It was a puff of mucus that is colored and colorless with the contortions
of fury assimilatory, revealing once in a while your eyes stupid
and ferocious.

Continued to fall further casualties and the other monsters jumped in his turn, distending their
star, shrugging then to grind the prey in their gut with a tiger digestion.

Freya attended this awful power of pleasure shaking. Ulysses felt how relied on instinct, with
a contact that was becoming more intimate moments.

From shoulder to ankle felt the captain relieves soft warm flesh and a firm, was felt through
the clothes and seemed to pull him with nervous tremors.

Several times her eyes turned away from the bloody spectacle to look
at him quickly in a strange way.

Her eyes seemed enlarged. His corneas had an acuity of unhealthy reflection. Ferragut he thought
it should look at the crazy in his great crisis.

He spoke through clenched teeth, pausing with emotion, admiring the ferocity of these beasts, grieving
not have its force and cruelty.

- Be well! ... Able to walk down the street ... the world, stretching claws ... Devour! ...
Devour! They will be discussed in vain to undo the ring of my tentacles ... Absorb! ... Eat!
... Make them disappear!

Ulysses saw her as the first day, next to the shrine of the poet,
possessed of a rage deaf against men, looking forward to her voluptuous
tremors extermination.

The octopus, having finished his digestion, were released to swim.

Skeins were now horizontal that crossed the pond in style. Conical bow torpedo appeared, leading
to dredge the thick, long hair of his tentacles. His appetite was excited they run water in all
directions, looking for new victims.

Freya protested. The guard had thrown only lifeless bodies. She wanted the fight, slaughter, death. The
pieces of sardines were a meal without substance to these bandits
were only taste the food seasoned with murder.

As if the octopus would understand their complaints, had been dropped in the sand, flaccid, inert,
breathing through their funnels.

A small crab began to descend at the end of a thread, with desperate kicking.

She pressed closer against Ulysses, excited to think about the next show. Jumped one of the bags
turned into a star: his legs snaked looking for the newcomer.

In vain the guardian moved up the line, wanting to prolong the game.

Tentacles irresistible suckers stuck to the body of the victim and the twine, pulling the latter
with such force that it broke, falling into the bottom of the octopus with its prey.

Freya made a motion as if to applaud. "Bravo !...» was intensely pale. A fever heat passed through
the clothes from the side of his body on the side of Farragut that served as support.

Moved the bust to the glass to better view the activities of the stomach
devouring in a pyramid, which was at its height a tiny head with two
eyes fierce parrot and provides the basis around the twisted skein
of their paws full of outgoing rounds.

With they pressed against her mouth crab, injecting the product under its shell poison of their
salivary glands, paralyzing all movement of resistance.

Then he swallowed it slowly, a boa swallowing.

- How beautiful! - She said.

The other animals were also the victim alive and paralyzed and devoured, waving their flabby bodies,
for which nutritional posing swelling clouds of various stripes and colors.

Now the keeper threw a crab, but released without any bond. Freya cried enthusiasm.

It was the game as set in the ferocious mystery of the sea, death
race, the preceded by anguish and destruction exciting chances.

The poor crustacean, guessing the danger, swam to the rocks for shelter in the nearest crack. An
octopus left behind him, while others continued their digestion.

- Runs away!

... Escapes! - Freya cried, beating of interest.

The crab ran down the rocks, sheltered in their windings. The octopus and not swimming; also ran as a
land animal, climbing the rocks with their claws armed, which served as his locomotive apparatus.
Tiger was a struggle against rat ... When the crab body was already
half hidden among the lichen green of a hole, fell on his back one
of the heavy snakes, begins with the irresistible pull of its sales,
making disappeared into the tangle of tentacles.

- Ah! - Freya sighed,
leaning back as if to faint on the chest of Ulysses.

It shuddered, feeling that he had twisted his body a quivering ring
pressure.

The events of that imbalance had finally excite your nerves.

He thought that a monster in the same class as the pond, but much
more, a giant octopus the ocean floor, had treacherously slipped behind
him, suddenly throwing one of its tentacles.

I felt the pressure of the grip on his waist, increasingly tight fiercer.

Freya was holding him with one arm.

Had twisted violently to him and pressed waist with full force, as if to halve his body vigorous.

Then
he saw near the head of this woman with a rapidly aggressive if it
were to bite ... His eyes enlarged and vagorosos teary seemed to be
far, far away.

Maybe not I saw ... His mouth, trembling with emotion and blue, a
round mouth and in relief, as absorbent muscle, sought the mouth of
the ocean, taking possession of her, pulling her lips.

It was a windy kiss, long dominant painful. Ulises acknowledged that he had never been kissed
well.

The water in that mouth, tracing the edge of the teeth, spilled over into his own as sweet poison.
A hitherto unknown shudder ran along his back, making him close his
eyes.

He felt empty, as if everything inside it settles, passing to another body through the absolute suction.
He had a hunch that this kiss was going to be dated in her life that began for him a new existence
that would never come off these lips biting and caressing, who had
a distant taste of cinnamon, incense, Asian populated jungle the pleasures
and pitfalls.

And was carried away by the touch of a beast, lost in thought and the dead body and resigned,
as the castaway who falls down and the endless layers of the abyss without ever reaching the
bottom.

VI

THE DEVICES OF CIRCE

Thought after that kiss your other wishes were to be realized immediately. The hardest thing
the road and was gone. But Freya had always expect something absurd
and inconceivable.

The noon cannon shot them out of their trance voluptuous, which lasted a few seconds long as years.
The steps of the guardian ever closer, finally separating two busts and untangle his arms.

Freya was the first to settle.

Only a slight smoke hung in the background of their pupils, as if the fumes of burning freshly
extinguished.

- Goodbye ... I hope.

And left the Aquarium followed by Ferragut, still faltering and trembling.

Were useless questions and requests with which he pursued while crossing the ride.

- So far nothing more - she said in one of the side streets of Chiaia -. We'll see ... He formally
promise ... Now let me ...

He disappeared with his step firm hunter beautiful, serene face, as if not left in she the slightest
recollection of his wild outburst of passion.

This time he kept his promise. Ferragut saw her every day.

Were found in the morning near the hotel, and sometimes it dropped to dining room, smiles and looks
across the ocean, unfortunately occupied by a distant table. Then walked, talked, laughed Freya
loving kindness of the captain's oaths ... And that was it. 

With
the ability of women to probe the man and penetrate its secrets, keeping
closed and unapproachable own secrets, she was aware of the accidents
and adventures the life of Ulysses. In this vain, for a natural reciprocity,
spoke of the island of Java, the mysterious dances with Siva, travel
through the lakes of the Andes. Freya was an effort to remember. "!...¡
Ah yes!" And then give this issue in reply exclamation distracted,
still figuring out eagerly to the old life of her lover. Ulysses,
in some time, came to suspect if the hug at the Aquarium have happened
in a dream.

One morning I got the captain to see realized one of
his wishes. He was jealous of the unknowns Freya had lunch with friends.
In vain he said it was the only colleague Dr. of hours spent outside
the hotel. The sailor, to calm down, demanded that the widow accept
their invitations. Should give greater scope to its trips, should
visit the beautiful outside Naples, in its cheerful trattoria lunch.

They
climbed together in the Vomero hill funicular to the heights crowned
by the castle Sant Elmo and the Certosa of San Martino. After admiring
the museum gives the Abbey memories art of domination and domination
muratesca Bourbon, entered a restaurant near a trattoria with tables
set in a plaza from which the rails could be covered unforgettable
spectacle of the Gulf, besides seeing Vesuvius and the chain of mountains
vanishing on the horizon like a dark pink stationary waves.

Naples
horseshoe extended by the arcuate edge of the sea, its huge mass expelling
white, as if it were foam cores, the villages of the suburbs.

A ostricario
brown, thin, with eyes of coal and huge mustache, had his post at
the door the restaurant, offering seafood intense smell, perhaps midweek
had cast climb from the town to the heights of Vomero. Freya laughed
at the typical beauty ostricario and burning eyes who ran out of habit
to all the ladies who entered the establishment ... A real find for
travelers eager for adventure with local color.

At bottom, a small
orchestra accompanied the voice of a tenor, or sounded alone, stretching
melodies, rhythms with Neapolitan amplifying the hype.

Freya felt
a childish glee when sitting at the table, seeing beyond the cloth
vacuum light height. Cut in the first place by a glass tube filled
with flowers, extended the distant panorama of the city, the Gulf
and capes. We drunk the air of this summit, after two weeks that have
passed without leaving Naples. Harps and violins gave the environment
pathetic tremor and served as background to the talks, as the vague
murmurs of a enhance hidden orchestra in the theater chanting of verses
melancholy, ripping tears.

Ate with appetite nervous that provides
joy. A few tables away, a couple Young forgot dishes to shake hands
under the tablecloth and tightened leg frantic leg against pressure.
The two smiled looking at the scenery and looking at each other. Perhaps
they were foreigners newlyweds, lovers perhaps fugitives were conducted
their illusions lulled into this country so often evoked in his distant
courtship