 More often in spite of her body and
not very well made, and the constant paleness of his face, had special appeal, that all who saw her,
and further treating her were happy to say. It came mainly on their large expressive dark eyes,
the soul looked out they reflect the most mild and fleeting emotions, now burning with fire
passion revealing hidden malicious, insatiable, sometimes ecstatic become quiet, limpid, in mystic
rapture, now shining bright and boisterous, then melancholy, dry and wet as soon as soon as tender
angry. Also came from its mobility, sharpness of their wit and their Metal nice voice and insinuating.
It was, in short, a funny and interesting woman.

It is unknown whether through pride or because they really hot and blustery temperament prompted
As a result, presented herself with the rich young cavalier gallantly would demand that undecided
to ask for her hand, and gave heart to a humble guy, a government escribientillo four thousand
political real wages, the son of a schoolteacher. Blue Blood Sanchiz jumped the cholera in
the veins of D. Antonio and Antonito, their sisters, and even on the banker, his brother, who
did not. Active and had to suffer fierce persecution. But as he did not lack courage and was
also equipped with a witty and mischievous spirit, fertile in all sorts of mischief, it is
certain that mocked them a long time, that pleas were to no avail, threats, or the season
that had imprisoned in a convent. If the clerk fails to die of tuberculosis that ended in a few
months, almost certainly that the very noble and needed Sanchiz house suffer the stain of affinity
with the child a schoolteacher.

After this adventure, Amalia was badly discredited in the population. But she well I knew that
even if his reputation remained intact, would be the same. Men are not marry for prestige but
for the money. It did not occur, then feel remorse for past. Lived sad and resigned two years,
appearing indifferent to the pleasures of age, without doing anything to win the willingness of
young people and gain a husband. When and was about twenty-four Aprils, and could be written off
hope of marriage, was when D. Pedro Quinones, third or fourth uncle, came to remember her. Resisted
to marry that man, that girl had only seen two or three times a widower recently time, and whose extravagance
knew from hearing it and laughing to tell her father and brother, The same as now pressed to
accept him as a husband!