 Since I had money hand,
quickly became a regular cockpit. Commissioned many of the roosters English to Antequera because he
was informed that there cultivated the finest and purest blood. Were trained in the care and preparation
of the roosters to fight. In all animals imposed mythological names and legendary Achilles, money,
Ulysses, colorado, Hector, hen, Hercules, black, Roldán, gold; Manfredo, ash, Charlemagne, also black,
etc.., Etc. In the other cockpits abounded Bullfighters names. Every Sunday morning, after
Mass eleven, because he believed in God and providence, though in this world there is no justice,
no plan, no sense, Apollonius was heading to the circus gallista, followed by an apprentice with
where they were able to roosters to fight that day missed. Intervened in the preliminary examination
and weight of the combatants, and scrutinizing with such scruples, seriousness and the balance
device, as if it were deciding the future of humanity. Then, you had to see how religious pomp
and gloomy mood, sitting behind the door, wiping spurs gallo with half a lemon, for mundificarlas,
if they were poisoned, and then wiped with his handkerchief, and finally, gently deposited
on the cock ring, as saying: est boasts random, and there is no earthly power to deflect the will
of the Fates. And the will of fate was, inevitably, that Apollonius cocks are dead or badly
wounded. A Lagartijo Ulysses killed him, Hector, Bocanegra; Mazzantini porridge made Roldán Achilles
went blind in a stabbing that put Frascuelo, and a rooster of mixed blood and ruin, white, called
Espartero, owned by a carpenter, Charlemagne annihilated, Manfredo, Hercules and six other hapless
heroes. Surprisingly, Apolonio attended without anger, before with pride, at the expiration
of his roosters. The essential thing was that he never sang the hen died they had to die, the
hero always dies in the end, not at the hands of other heroes, but for the vile dagger. His cock
always gave the chest, the others were a cowardly tactic combat, simulated run around the ring,
and the more confident was the hero in pursuit, unexpectedly turned traitor and gave lunges.