 

Areche, Medina and Mata-Linares, authors of such atrocities, received honors and applause: but
the appearance of the victims, their last cries, their quivering members, their bodies destroyed
by force of torments, such memories are not so easily erased the memory of men, [5] and must
perpetuate the story to give these names to the hatred of centuries.

A few examples give the annals of nations of a dreadful carnage. Not only be tormented and
sacrificed to Tupac-Amaru, his wife, his son, his brothers, uncles, brothers, and confident,
but is banned in all his mass of kinship, however remote that they were the degrees of consanguinity
that united them. Spared only to a child of eleven, son of Tupac-Amaru, who after having witnessed
the torture of their parents and relatives, was sent to Spain, where he died shortly afterwards.
So it must be apocryphal title Fifth grandson of the last Emperor of Peru, who took Juan Bautista
Tupamaru to achieve the Government of Buenos Aires a pension for life. [6]

The only useful result of this great new organization was shaking the Court Spain gave to the
administration of its overseas provinces, and the abolition of the divisions. This was legitimized
the principle invoked Tupac-Amaru to improve the lot of Indians, they found after their delegates,
managers more accountable, and therefore more comprehensive than the magistrates.

RELATIONSHIP HISTORY &

* * * * *

While the cruel and bloody disturbances,
which have excited and encouraged the Indians in the provinces in
South America have been the sole cause of many unfortunate miseries,
as its inhabitants have continued, it is nevertheless must admit that
the real and formal origin of them is none other than the general
corruption of customs, and the utmost confidence or neglect that until
now has lived on this continent.

       So it seems it is clear from the facts themselves, and persuade all
circumstances.

In some years been carried on were recognized in the same America many of those services and disorders
that are likely to cause the biggest revolution to a state, it no longer among its inhabitants was
another union that the sides and parties. The public good was sacrificed to special interests: the
power and respect to the laws, he was only a name vain oppression
and inhumanity and horror inspired not to the more than men accustomed
to see the crime succeed.

Hatred, treachery, usury and incontinence represented in their respective theaters, the most
tragic scene, and lost the modesty broke the sacred laws and civil scandal reprehensible.

Such was the unhappy state of these provinces in the matter of discipline, and not better it
was concluded in order to the security and defense of them, they were not weapons, ammunition
or other supplies for the war lacked officers and soldiers who understood the art of war: because,
although the capital of this vast kingdom, such as Lima and Buenos Aires, are good and intelligent,
like the fire of rebellion is ignited in the center of the same provinces
and almost at the same time at all, and the distance from one to another
capital is a thousand leagues at least, did not result in anything
other than to make inevitable the damage, because although they had
named regiments of militia, whose strength was grown in the statements
sent to the Court, it was learned later that only existed in the imagination
of the formed, perhaps some decent view of their high character, that
produced the utility patent rights and other imposts.
