 Abu Hafáz the
heading and captains. This was the day after the kidnapping of Glafiro. The guard King and other
armed garrison were two or three times up and rejected, having refuge in the castle. The crowd besieging
him and was going to give the assault, Alhakem apprehend that this was going to be the end of his
reign and his life. He called his favorite page, you was poured over his head and his beard
a bottle of fragrant essences, that by its fragrance would be accepted from the dead, and left to
die or defeat the rebels.

Waded Alhakem order of the Guadalquivir a good shot of his warriors fell on the suburb of the
Muladi, who was across the river, and gave the plunder and a raging fire. The muladíes saw the
flames and smoke, thought they were burning their houses and such Once their women and children, and
left the fight to come to their aid. The battle then became excruciating defeat and carnage
and slaughter of the muladíes, attacked by all parties and by the commanding Alhakem as those
crossing the bridge, returning from suburb after he burned.

Abu Hafáz defeated, had enough presence of mind, fortune and to escape with no few of their own,
with the best of his treasure and carry with them Glafiro.

Running thousand dangers and overcome a thousand obstacles, came to Abu Hafáz Adra. There were
ten large ships theirs. Embarked on them and left Spain for good.

Alhakem, after the victory, even the rebels fiercely punished. Over four heads of those who
had fallen alive into their hands cut off and nailed appeared in separate stakes in the banks
of the Guadalquivir.

After Clement wanted to show, because there was the kill thousands
of people, but thousands expelled from Spain.

Some went to Morocco and settled a large area of ??the city of Fez. Others emigrated and settled
further in Egypt.

Abu Hafáz, meanwhile, with their ships, and the bravest among the outlaws, it was pirated.

This came in my plan a series of adventures and forays into Provence, Sardinia, on the coasts
of Calabria and other regions.

Abu Hafáz, laden with booty and with the greatest number of ships and people who had close relative,
contributes to Alexandria. Thanks to the civil strife that occurred there then, manages to
seize of that great city and kept for some time. The Caliph of Baghdad sends against him a powerful
army.

Abu Hafáz defends itself, and while capitulates and abandons the city, after an honorable surrender
and profit, receiving large sum for the ransom.

With twenty ships and a few hundred fighters, Abu Hafáz went, finally, Crete. He always carried
a Glafiro, kept his promise of making boastful queen and now expect it reigns at home, long before
you erase the passionate sign of slavery had placed in the neck. Crete was held by the Byzantines
Andalusian bandits when they landed on their shores.

Here I thought I show off describing the natural beauty of the island, its antiquities, its famous
cities such as Gnosis and Gortyn, the remains of the Labyrinth where he was locked the Minotaur,
the elusive places where Curetes dactyls and danced their war dances about the future monarch of
men and gods, the sacred cave where he slept Epimenides secular dream,
and the point where Ariadne sailed under the false and ungrateful
Theseus then abandoned on Naxos, where he took it out in triumph with
all that God Ditirambo thunderous procession maenads fauns and that
so deftly describes us poets.

It would also need to relate how the warriors of Abu Hafáz, after plundering some parts of
the island, wanted to leave to avoid having to fight the emperor's army Greece, and as Abu
Hafáz, preceding in this for the Catalans at Gallipoli and Hernán
Cortés in Mexico, he set fire to twenty ships, so there is no other
recourse but to win or die people of weapons carried.

I paint, finally, the war waged against the soldiers of the Greek
Empire and how were defeated.

Abu Hafáz then rule over the whole island and puts his throne and the capital of his domain into
a fortress, which he founded and named Candax. So erased for centuries its old name to the
island came to be called Candia.

Glafiro was queen, as Abu Hafáz he had promised.

The mark did not disappear until much after Glafiro had ascended
the throne.

And the son and grandson Glafiro and his grandson reigned in Crete,
for his dynasty lasted two or three centuries.

All this sung here to escape, may have no joke, but I think that giving due erudite and illuminating
extension with local and temporary colors that I have spoken, would be hilarious novel, and
would also highlight the exploits of the Andalusian Muslims then instead of being Catholic,
and were the first to bring Islam to Crete, so that now they want the Cretans liberate reason.
May God grant me and the Grace had not bothered to readers of The Liberal with this by way of
abortion in my dry wit. Save me in apology that I do to please you.

DOUBLE KILLING

FATHER GUTIERREZ A DON PEPITO

Manchester, April 4, 1842.

My dear disciple, My sister, who has lived more than twenty years there, living, makes two in
my house, since she was widowed and childless. Retains many relationships, receives letters often
there and is aware of everything.

For her I know things that disturb me and greatly displeased.

How can I tell you that a young man so honest and so afraid of God,
who taught me well the metaphysical and moral, when he came to hear
my lessons in the seminar, now leads in a way so sinful?

I am horrified to think the danger to which you expose yourself incurring the most dreadful sins,
bitter existence of a venerable old man dishonoring his hoary head, and if time, if not cause,
irreparable misfortunes. I know I frantically in love with Joanna, wife of the rich farmer self
D. Gregory, the chase with reckless daring and try triumph of virtue and integrity that she will resist.
Fingiéndote agricultural engineer or expert, you're there to teach prepare wine and skin grafting strains
better vintages, but what you is your nasty skin grafting mischief, and what you prepare is shameful
desolation of a great man, whose sole guilt is getting married, old, with a pretty girl and a
little flirtatious. Ah, no, son mine! For God's sake and for your sake, I beg you. Desist in
your company and become a criminal Malaga. If anything, my darling estimates and good concept
that you always had, and if you want lose, not desoigas my warnings.

FATHER OF DON GUTIERREZ PEPITO

Villalegre, April 7.

My beloved and respected teacher: Uncle Paco, who has come here to this city and oil, just handed
me your letter of 4, which I hasten to answer for you calm down and form a better opinion of me.
I'm not in love with Joanna or pursue as she appears. Doña Juana is a woman unique and somewhat
dangerous, I admit. Will six years, when she was about thirty, he managed to marry the rich farmer
D. Gregorio. No one accuses her of cheating, but you have deceived her husband, that she sends
Zapatazos and brings him and takes him as a Zarandillo. She is so smug and so vain, he believes
and has done her husband believe that no man who does not love her and not the pursued. If I tell
the truth, Juana is not ugly, but it's not very pretty, and nor high
nor low no matter how thin or thick calls for anyone's attention.

Llama, yes, care for their eyes, their movements and because, perhaps without realizing it, insists
on calling and provoke people. It puts rouge on the cheeks, is cast in the forehead and neck
rice powder, and black paints to shine eyelids over his dark eyes. The continuous fencing, as
if since they were the loves enherboladas throwing arrows. In sum, Dona Juana, against which
have nothing to say the gossips, is inadvertently stirring and exasperating to the mortals of
the stronger sex, and walk, and in the gatherings, and in the same church. That makes them easy
and abundant achievements.

Not a few men, especially if they are outsiders and do not know,
they are what they want, the promise is happy, and dare to woo and
even make some moral propositions.

She then says goodbye with packing.

Then you boastfully lamenting all her friends how much of widespread immorality and she is
so unhappy and have such attractive no man who does not compliment the intended, the pitfalls
to harass and put his honesty, not left alone with their D. Gregorio.

Joanna's madness has gone so far as to assume that even those who say nothing are love with
her. In this issue tell me, to my misfortune. Last summer I saw and knew Dona Juana Carratraca
baths. And now I'm here, she has assembled in his mind the pipe that I have been chasing. I find
no way to take this forward, I not a little annoyed, and I can not want to leave this place
and return to Malaga, because there is a matter of great interest to me, keeps me here. 'll Talk
about it to you another day. Goodbye for today.

THE SAME TO THE SAME

April 10.

My beloved and respected teacher: It's true: I am madly in love, but
not for feed Dona Juana.

My girlfriend's name Isabelita. It is a beauty for its beauty, discretion,
candor and good breeding.

Seems impossible that a guy so ordinary and so plump and D. Gregory have had a daughter so slender,
so distinguished and so beautiful. The D. was Gregory of its first women. And now his stepmother
Joanna the plot, the ground, domination and strives to be her to marry his brother D. Ambrose,
who is a huge lost and to whom should this marriage because Isabelita is inherited from his
mother, and to what usually found in people like this is very good game. Juana applies to D. Ambrose,
who at last is his blood, approach that she uses, and is considered certain that you already
love Isabelita D. Ambrosio and is dying to marry him. So it has been said to D. Gregorio, and
Isabelita, full of fear, dare not contradict, nor even declare that like me, I'm her boyfriend and
I came to this winery for it.

Juana goes always made a lynx watching Isabelita, whom I never could talk and whom I have not dared to
write, because it would not receive my letters.

From Carratraca I presumed, however, that she loved me, because involuntary
and candidly I returned with gratitude and love the tender, furtive
glances that I used to it.

It relied only came to this place on the pretext that you already know.

I would be doing the role of fool, if I had not the fate in store a powerful auxiliary. Is this
the chacha RamonCarlos, old and distant relative of D. Gregory, who lives at home, as housekeeper,
who has raised Isabelita and worships, and can not suffer Joanna and because abusive and bullying
to your child, and because she has removed the previously Mangoneo had. By chacha RamonCarlos,
which has been connected with me, I know I want Isabelita; but is so shy and so well ordered,
my girlfriend will not be formal or write me or consent to see me
or talk to me pave a grill, as it could, not give their consent while
his father and the one today instead of mother.

I have insisted the chacha RamonCarlos to see if he could get me
for speaking Isabelita a fence: but Chacha explained to me that this
is impossible.

Isabelita sleeps in an inner room, to out of which would be forced
through the bedroom where he sleeps his stepmother, and take addition
to the key that keeps her stepmother after closing the bedroom door.

In this situation I am, but not waive or lose hope. Chacha is RamonCarlos Ladino and has great commitment
to annoy Joanna. In the chacha RamonCarlos trust.

THE SAME TO THE SAME

April 15.

My beloved and respected teacher: The RamonCarlos chacha is the devil himself, but for me, beneficial
and helped. I do not know how he has composed. The truth is that I have received for tomorrow
at ten o'clock at night, a date with my girlfriend. Chacha I open the door and enter home. I
do not know where Juana will be for us not surprised. Chacha says I must ignore, that everything
is perfectly arranged and there will be the least mishap. In their ability to put my trust and discretion.
I hope the maid will not have imagined anything is wrong, but in any case, the end justifies
the means, and in order that I propose not can be better. There'll see what happens.

THE SAME TO THE SAME

April 17.

My beloved and respected teacher, I went to the appointment. The naughty maid of honor its pledge.
He opened the front door very cautiously and entered the house. Taking me by the hand made
me up the dark stairs and through a long corridor and two chambers. Then penetrated me in a
large room that was illuminated by a lamp of two lighters, and from which discovered the spacious
adjoining room. Chacha had used a stratagem of hell. If before I had confided his project, I would
never have consented to having. We ... if you can guess what happened there. D. Gregory had been that
night to sleep in the farmhouse, and the perverse RamonCarlos chacha, deceiving, just input in Joanna's
bedroom. What surprised mine when I found myself face to face with this lady! I keep referring here
not to be too prescriptive, the groans and complaints from this lady, the outpouring of grief
and anger, combined with piety, to believe the victim of love desperate for her and the other points
he made, and did not know which all atortolado I what to say or how to justify. But this was
not the worst, or merely so little Chacha RamonCarlos evil. A D. Gregory, peaceful man, but
jealous of his honor, he wrote an anonymous letter revealing that his wife had an appointment
with me ten. D. Gregorio, although believed a slander, so much trust in the virtue of his wife,
went to D. Ambrosio to make sure everything.

Dismounted, entered the house and climbed the stairs quietly, followed by his brother. For this
or Order of the maid, who had arranged everything very well, D. Gregorio stumbled in the dark
with a bench that had gone through and made a costalazo, making enough noise and throwing a few
curses.

He soon got up without being hurt and walked hurriedly to his wife's
room.

They heard the noise and cursing, and three more or less criminal,
we are filled consternation.

Heavens! - Joanna said in a choked voice: - Flee you, save me, my
husband arrives.

There was no way out of there without encountering D. Gregory, not hiding in the bedroom or without
shelter in Isabelita room, which was next door. RamonCarlos Chacha, in that predicament, grabbed
my arm, pulled me, and took me to Isabelita room with nice surprise on my part. Found D. Gregorio
so upset his wife, who increased their suspicions and wanted to record it all, always followed
by his brother. So both the quarter came Isabelita. This, the chacha RamonCarlos as third, and me
as a boyfriend, we started humbly on his knees, confess our sins and declare that we wanted
to help it all through the holy sacrament marriage. After appropriate explanations and knowledge
D. Gregorio what my family and the gifts of fortune which I possess, D. Gregory has not only consented,
but has arranged for us to get married soon. Doña Juana, reluctantly, had to consent also, what
it means to save his honor. And so I've been very grateful because I sacrifice to save her.
And has been Isabelita grateful that for the same reason is sacrificed as well, despite the
love that is in D. Ambrose.

I will not deny me, my dear master, that the intrigue that has used the chacha RamonCarlos has
a lot of reprehensible, but has a very great advantage. While I was so enamored of Dona Juana
and being so in love Isabelita D. Ambrose, the four would be jeopardized, if my future and I tarry
here. So we have every reason to get out of this Instead, well we do not take the blessing
the priest, and run two characters as they are so smelly Isabelita stepmother and brother.

Dona Juana Dona Micaela, SISTER OF FATHER GUTIERREZ

May 4.

My kind
friend, for relief of my heart, I must tell you all that has happened.
Always have been modest. Believe me I am far from pretty and seductive.
And yet, I do not know what is, no doubt unintentionally, and even
without feeling I was escaping from my eyes a hellfire that makes
men crazy angry. I said to you the vehement passion criminal Carratraca
inspired to D. Pepito, and how much he has asked me, tormented and
persecuted comin to my town. Believe me I have not given this young
man bold enough to reason step, or better say, for the cliff to be
tossed a few nights ago. Rondon, and oste unsaid or wort, is entered
into my house and my room to attack my honesty, when my husband was
absent. In what danger I found! What commitment mine and yours! D.
Gregory came when least anticipated. And because we stumbled on a
bench, gave a bump and let some of the ugly expletives he usually
drop. If not for this, surprising. The presence of the spirit of the
chacha RamonCarlos saved us from a scandal perhaps a bloody drama.
What would become of my poor D. Gregory, as thick as is leaving the
field and challenge? I was just thinking about hair stands on end.
Chacha, fortunately, was D. Pepito Isabel's room. That saved us. I
have been very grateful. But it is still more my gratitude for the
passionate D. Pepito, who, not commit, pretending that he was the
boyfriend of Elizabeth, and to my own daughter-who has renounced his
D. love Ambrose and said he was a young bride of Malaga. Both have
accomplished a double sacrifice, that I should lose my cool or my
credit. Yesterday they were married and then for that city