 Finding himself alone in the room, approached the table where they were still
almost intact the rich delicacies, the candy, fruit and generous and sparkling wines; but
the memory of the mysterious voice and stopped the invisible hand, and forced to content to
look and smell.

To enjoy this incomplete delight, came so close to the food, which came to be among the table
and the chair of the Prince.

Then he felt, not one, but two invisible hands fell over her shoulders
pressed it.

The mysterious voice said:

- Sit down and eat.

In fact, they danced sitting in the same chair of the Prince, and as authorized by the voice,
began to eat with a special appetite, the novelty and exquisite food
made greater still, and fell fast asleep eating.

When he awoke, it was quite the day. He opened his eyes, and found in the countryside, lying
at the foot of the tree where he had wanted to eat the orange. There was the clothes he had brought
the river, and even the orange runner was there too.

- If there was all a dream? lavanderilla said for itself.

I would like to return to palace Prince of China to make sure that these festivities are real
and not dream.

Saying this, threw down the orange to see if he again showed the way, but Orange rolled a bit
and then stopped in any hole or stumble, or when the momentum with
moving was no longer effective.

In sum, the orange did what they ordinarily under identical circumstances,
all natural orange.

His behavior was nothing strange or wonderful.

Then jilted the girl, left the orange and saw that inside was like the others. Ate, and it tasted
just as many oranges were eaten before.

And just had doubted that I have dreamed .-- No order, he added, that
convince me itself from the reality of what I've seen, but I'll go
see the Princess and I will tell all so they can care.

V.

As befell, in dream or in reality the little ordinary events that
are mentioned, Princess Ventura, tired of both mourn, was sleeping
peacefully, and although were already eight in the morning, when everyone
used to be up and even lunch At that time, the Princess, without agreement
of the person, still in bed.

Judged interesting, no doubt, his new favorite girl who brought
him, he dared to wake her. He entered his bedroom, opened the window
and cried with joy:

- Lady, lady, wake up and be glad that there
are already those who bring you news of the green bird.

The Princess
awoke, rubbed his eyes, sat up and said:

- Have they become the seven
sages who were the country knows?

- Not so, replied the girl, who
brings the news is one of the lavanderillas that watery tissue washed
VA

- Then make it into the spot