 In two minutes it was clear and the isthmus
open a path in there campizo which covered the stumps of the cliff, until the pile of snow which
lay Chisco. Then the intrepid boy was pulled to the base of slope, and there, as if he were
in the garden of his home, without worry the least about the horrific vision of the abyss that
opened at half staff in each of his feet, he began to EXPAL snow slope, side to side, sending
at the same time it did above the same, as the blades reach. Without base and the snow slope
and removed overhead, began to slip into the isthmus, which was split into two waterfalls
disappearing in the ravine. Clear and clean the slope in a few moments and unfettered, therefore,
of the dangers they feared before, he fell down the rope called Chorcos, tied as it should and he
knew it, his friend under the arms, and gingerly pulling up and helping the He fondly from below,
was Chisco, who could not do anything for themselves, leaning to the slope.

- Up to him now! - Salces Pete shouted, as pulsu, because if no one brazu cascau yeva has of
faltali POCU.

Chisco arrived happily at the top, down the rope again, Atos her Chorcos, subiéronle; and no one
stopped to ponder the feat, and it occurred to him that he had done worthy of the name, ran
to surround all Chisco, who had already taken over the doctor in the oak groves, attended mainly
by Don Sabas. The head wound was negligible, and the arm was not even a dislocated shoulder.
The worst was the blood loss weakened him very much, and what might be of concussion, although
how compliant was a good sign that the whole body was showing the remedies that you Neluco applied.
Three quarters of an hour the patient was sitting by his own efforts and their free will,
another quarter of an hour later, asking detailed news of all that had past the hour and a half,
he ate with great appetite and was drinking when he gave, and unfulfilled two hours, rehearsing
their vigor of kicking in the snow walking and praying to Cure Neluco because it broke the
place quickly.

Walking now, said Don Sabas your doctor:

- And they say that miracles are no longer! Be in the canyon wall smooth one rock ledge, go
for the death penalty Chisco dragged by cellerisca; have a bed rock more than six feet of snow,
and engage him in blankets cellerisca over another Thus, for the
fall out soft. Are not these miracles?

And finally, is not the greatest of all the occurrence of Pete? For what would have served the other
without such barbarism?

As it was necessary to accommodate Chisco walk, his gait was not ordinary,
down to Tablanca lasted much more than estimated at the output of
"Cuevona" of "Pedregalón of Escajeras'; and how, even so, the monsoon
of Robacio was not iron, became tired and not feeling much well as
the night wore on grew colder and colder.

There were fears that Tablanca unable to reach their feet, and looked for shortcuts to soon.
How come, at last, Neluco and patients, we have already seen us. It Chisco heated bed, he
stripped off his wet clothes, he was given a friction brandy, and was lying in bed when referring
Neluco in the kitchen these events more than once clouded the eyes of Facia, and made us tremble
with fear and excitement Tona her daughter, while my uncle was shaking her chin and stuck
little eyes sparkled in the narrator. As for me, to admire as much as I admired the heroic
atrocity Pito Salces, and feel so deeply as I felt the terrible misfortune of the poor Chisco, I was
still all in comparison little box of horrors that I had been building
in the head during the day and much of the night.

Finished the story, with detailed comments from listeners, and refreshed and with Neluco lumbrona
heat, god around Chisco's bedroom, saw and saw all sleeping profoundly a quiet sleep without
any sign of fever, caused us instructions what could happen until he returned the next morning, called
the bluff and Facia had prepared him, took leave and went to his house where his housekeeper would
be crying by entrusting to him and to God. I then explained to my uncle, the reason for these
events, my conduct throughout the day appeared calm with it, leaning against us shortly after
the lazy, I had dinner with an appetite as I had not felt one in
my life, and one hour after we retired to sleep.

A sleep! ... Good went to do the hours of that day and night memorable!

Tell me I got into bed with his head crammed with special events and heart full of impressions,
saw the storm raging in the mountains, rocks ripping uprooting trees and secular, and a dozen
men, simply and naturally generous shrouded swirling snow and hail, rolling on the floor, such as
leaf litter dead trees; saw Chisco dying in the back of a rock, on a black background an awful
abyss, saw the desperate yearning of his fellow-sufferers, who were not how to get there, and
saw, finally, to Noblot Pito Salces flying through the air and risking their lives at the start
brutally sublime, just trying to save Your friend, which surely would have done the same for
him a lot, I considered all As representative and valuable in the light of common sense these
things, and simple attack the trip to the mountain on a day like this, in the pure and holy spirit
of charity, as The most natural and simple, without any protest, without the slightest doubt
and no idea even from the remotest hope of profit or applause, and could not help it, I remembered
I had read and heard many times in my world, the resounding din that used to move in chat rooms,
casinos and papers, and honors and ribbons that were requested and granted for award a "deed"
not worth two cumin good sale, I also thought of my poor uncle whom the questions first and then
the knowledge of reality with all its details, were affected very deeply, and that I had left
the bedroom door much more depressed and haggard than usual, more tiring and more haunted by
coughing, in Finally, I even thought so in good justice, would have won in estimating Chisco Tanasi,
who was not worthy of a big animal like pepazo, and Pito Salces in Tona, there would be no
thrown by the wayside the atrocities of Heroic mozallón how truly loved her.

Until well after midnight did not start the sleep feints to confuse and stack these thoughts
and those images in his head, and that was precisely when I heard few knocks on the floor
of the apartment of my uncle. He used to call it with a stick that put leaning against the headboard.
But the shock of that night was something distinguished them from the blows of other times,
heard by me without warning. Could this be true, or product of a hallucination of mine, but
I, in doubt, I stuck to it first and I got a leap, lit the candle, got dressed in the air and
went to the call. And what I was I feared. I found the poor guy sitting up in bed, iris color,
looking for distress, mouth open, panting and breathing hard, and a rattle in the chest that
looked like death. Recited, syllable by syllable, the Miserere psalm ... and I did not know
what to do or what to say at first: I imposed that picture had never seen and felt at the
same time very compassionate. Armed with that sort attacks had several drugs at home and gave us
some instructions Neluco to combat trouble in the first moments when he warned him, but I
could not quite make or to have anything to anything. So I looked stunning!

It reached the two maids, who had also heard the shots, and, seeing his master from the door, I
said Facia ear:

- What mesmu that again!

Tona He turned flying into the kitchen to a term of his mother, and it stayed with me in the sick
room.

Ether, hand baths, poultices ... I do not know how many resources were put into play there! A
whole lend the distressed lord, unless it is notified Neluco or Don Sabas, because after of
the struggle they had had since the dawn, they needed rest as much as him. And beware that
the poor Chisco found out what was going on! because it was able to rise risk of getting worse,
and Chisco and the Cure and Neluco and I and Facia and every one
of the sleeping or resting at that hour or went healthy and good for
the house, made missing in the world, all but him, that seeing themselves
in this predicament was seen in his own interests and in what was
natural.

All of this was telling us little by little, as he fixed his eyes
on us crystallized and longing and cadaveric in sank his hands a bowl
of hot water, building relief that would produce this and other heroic
remedies we applied it constantly.

- In addition - we said - this
is not death yet, I know him well, and if I thought otherwise, and
the priest would be here for my order, for the account of me.

Gravel! ... But it is another reminder of her ... We, the second touch, the third, the mass
... and do not lie, the funeral mass, the body of your uncle, Marcelo, your master, Facia, which
is already in abundance in this home and abroad ... Blessed be God forever ever, amen!

Then he began to pray for the low, and as he calmed the anguish was closing eyes, until finally
falling asleep, and so asleep and waking up every moment Before long. Toward morning the attack
disappeared completely and the patient slept quietly and at a stretch, about two hours. But what
I had wanted for the Neluco night to warn, and what my own anxiety by dawn!

When morning came, at last, I was shivering with cold ... and sadness, seated at the head of
my uncle's bed, having seen from the sunshine of my room that did not appear the new day more
cheerful than the last, and sent a wire to Neluco to anticipate the visit as he could.

XXIII

As my uncle was found free of the attack on waking from sleep,
relatively quiet, I had watched since dawn, and saw the room lit by
daylight, although brown, melancholy, forgot the anguish she had suffered
fatal few hours earlier, and he had not told other desire than to
jump out of bed to make life normal.

God help us reduced cost to us even listen to the reasons we had for oppose the reckless and
dangerous endeavor. Neluco, which was already present and well aware for everything that happened
during the night, he had really upset and even lacking a bit different respect. If not for the
good, bad that day would have to stay in bed and the next, and the other, and lasted as long
as the snow storm. Be avoided colds at all costs ... Then they would see. To which Don Celso,
casting by the loops of fire fox and clenching his fists in anger:

- For you it was! For you and for all of your driven trade, the tricky mediquín gravel! Why
do you take me? What wood you've thought that I am? I will arise ... or not I arise, and as I
see as gall, but not because he pleases so or to asao no undertaker live ... because life is buried
in cuartajo! be in bed days and days to a man like me, without fever
or pain.

After he surrendered, rather than conviction, for lack of strength to get away with it; but
turned his face to the wall muttering protests and abuse as a child upset.

Released this and while we would see Chisco, I said that perhaps the doctor had why my uncle in
his contention with us. Nature was so extraordinary!

- There is nature worth - I replied Neluco - at a certain age in life
and certain diseases.

- But how serious is it to have my uncle? -
I asked.

- I've already responded to you on another occasion that
question.

- Yes.

- Well, you stick to it, and offer government for
better intelligence, which each hundred patients from this class,
although young men are dying ... One Hundred and One, So you just
imagine if there have to be careful, even to stop the death of Don
Celso few days.

What is needed here now to discipline him a little, is to organize the editing assistance at the
same time the life of this home.

You may not accommodate certain tasks, improper of their habits and
even their nature Facia is the stamp of melancholy, and her daughter,
Tona unable to meet with the most affectionate of the applications,
skill and polish it missing.

Moreover, neither the mother nor daughter can, by their servant,
imposed impetuous whims of his master, who, moreover, he knows them
by heart, as than you.

More than wines and drugs, must attend to this patient with entertainment
distracting him and glad and require you to be docile, even by courtesy.

Finally, I Mari Pepa thought. Mari Pepa is coming here as a nurse with all my heart, and coming
it will come Lita too, and under the pretext of accompanying Don Celso, pass to his side all day
and make this big house an aviary. You what do you think?

Pearl seemed to me, and so he declared to Neluco. He was to turn the plan into a thing made, and
arrive in the bedroom this Chisco.

Which was no longer in it or nearby. Tona asking him, we knew that he was, some time ago, fixing
the cattle. We went down to the stables and there we found him. Something arm still hurt "jancia
the hombral" but as was the left, handles well for their business. He had a good 'appetite' is' did
discover "the other rowing final, and That was up as usual. I knew what his master, and he had
"the diantris" to consider that while the poor guy went through hell, he was sleeping leg loose
all night, and because of "softness and arreparus" who had been "malamenti" a man with his
belt.

Pulsóle the doctor and he acknowledged the arm and head injury; gave him for safe and sound if required
to observe certain prescribed care, bye me until "later", and left.

Before leaving I said very softly:

- I think I did very poorly last night to refer certain things in front of your uncle, so I
was impressed that the poor guy.

I suspected the same, and returned to the patient's bedside and sat at the head of your bed. I
found him more "human" than before, no doubt because it was also more depressed. Tempt him not
desire speak, nor was desirable provocársele as very expensive custom of Neluco, tell me I think
by having nothing else to occupy them there. It was certain that I had come really want to my uncle:
the view was what hurt me the seriousness of his condition and the
danger he was in the hands quedársenos when least expected, and yet
the prospect of that number of bed days imposed by the doctor to the
patient, with Subject to that made me this extent, the scant and gloomy
precincts of that room, and tenacious, thick snow that had heaven
in darkness, the earth without soil to tread and imprisoned its inhabitants,
I worried and hurt me why deny it! more.

The heart frequently vitiated human of these ailments, not evil itself, but for lack education
of the feelings, disuse of the most delicate of them, remnants of
selfishness acquired the freedom of a life without barriers and boundaries.

I Explicábame that weakness, which seemed to grave sin, with these thoughts, and they consoled
me, although not as much as the hope that plans be made and come Neluco Lita and her mother, Lita
especially to relieve the weight of the cross, renewing the air and faces and sounds and light
up those areas sorrowful, silent, black and dreary. But lend themselves to come Mari Pepa
and her daughter, despite their good and charitable desires? Is not arredrarían barriers of
snow and cold, cold that he had not felt maybe I did in Russia, not to be in Tablanca other recourse
than to the kitchen and a bad brazier to fight him? I knew Mal breaths tablanquesas ladies!
By midmorning entered the door of the room of the house the daughter and granddaughter of Don
Pedro Nolasco, shortly after I heard if any "chirp" and fill the passage of Argentina and harmonious
voices. Also He had guessed my uncle.

- Jesus! ... The cellerisca! - He exclaimed, to hear, in a tone that showed more joy weigh.

I went to meet him and got a pinch without hiding the great joy that his visit gave me. The eyes
and nose were all that was seen of his people: all else was a conglomerate skirts, jackets,
shawls and woolen shawls thick and sweet. Asking and saying, pray quietly (when it was undesirable
that could hear my uncle), now almost shouting (to agree hear it), were loosened head and discovering
his face, until it appeared in Lita (I saw little in the other) as moon in January between gray
clouds, or more properly, as an August apple wrapped in the leaves of the branch: this was coloradito
of smooth and down the roundness of her flesh there.

As they came well-informed and educated by Neluco, little or no talk about the role they corresponded
in the comedy that we were going to represent in front of the patient. Don Pedro Nolasco was
unable to accompany them, or rather, had not allowed them, for fear
fall would have been fatal in hombrazo of his years ... because they
were the roads Virgin Mary, our Mother! they were scary.

It 'eslociaban "foot in the snow as eels in hand. Only on the rise it had fallen scree (Lituca)
twice, and the same knee that must have made a pity.

I had not seen it yet, but I could swear by what the "sting", but not preventing movement, thank
God. Moreover, they knew that the patient did not suit him talk, although the request: the Occasionally,
some chunga, as if evil was a joke, on time and with love, drugs and food, and to forgive them
if they openly for inviting us to eat, because they, under the pretext of the snow, had planned
to stay until night without Don Celso malice the truth of reason. They came equipped to do
more entertaining work hours remaining around the brazier.

My uncle were received with four jokes and some regrets.

Although still alive, was given be dead now. They protested against the course, assuring him
that he had "lodging" then it was the coldness of snow, and may also feel some of that would
give the knowledge of what happened on the mountain the day before.

- Do not deny it - it answered my uncle - and therefore no two ways about what you I said, for
what can be expected as a man of my vein when left mayor, as I am mayor, by tinkering like that?

It
was the truth, but, nevertheless, insisted the women bonísimas deny it, but not the impetus
needed to achieve its charitable purposes, they were extremely affectionate and were imposed and
shaken before that exhaustion and that cadaverous pallor the poor Don Celso, neither for the
sake of maintaining their rights ignored by professional tyranny of Neluco, remembered and rising.

They
left at last in the calm he needed instalámonos in the adjoining room, came gray woman with encogollado
brazier of glowing embers, put him in the box that was there, and we sat around it, without
losing sight of the sick, Mari Pepa, her daughter and me. Mari Pepa got a very large pocket of
her apron to the accoutrements of media; Lita (I did not know what
withdrawal of its complicated wrappers) to the nail, and both began
to work in their work and talk at the same time, but with eyes and
sign with the mouth, which had to do with the status of my uncle.

Of "what happened yesterday," there was much more, and with some care to not heard from the
bedroom as I could impress again. It was a miracle of God that we do not hear most of it, because
with the stubborn determination I had in that there should be something between Lita and physician
I was really heavy and insistent in certain passages of dialogue,
particularly during Mari Pepa getaway to the bedroom, because my uncle
had coughed or believed that he had called ... or to see if I needed
something, but coughed or call.

At Don Pedro Nolasco had known all, shortly before going on "the cloud" that had terrified.
They had lived in the same anguish I late into the night. I spoke of Lita had doubts Toper's home,
and here's where my tenacity bordering on impertinence.

I met him at a glance strangeness with my beautiful interlocutor who responded to me a hint
that were cleared too my intentions. I won the serenity that seemed protest against poor understood
right to ask "certain things" for very obvious they were.

Then came Don Sabas, complaining since the passage of the regard that
had been saved in our house that night.
