 A month earlier would not have hesitated to turn to his former clerk, despite
how much it hurt his pride. But now, think of the boldness that is allowed Corpus Christi Day and
many others made by the stockbroker in his daily visits, Dona Manuela shame he stopped, and be
lit room, had seen her blush.

She, who did not remember so many years for no Melchor Pena, sentíalo roam around as a guardian spirit
of his honorable widowhood. The doctor, from her second husband, did not remember for nothing.
One good piece with his infidelities, he had no right to demand accounts
I could do.

What most surprised him was that caused it will now be shown as terrible scruples when, after his
first widowhood easily and insensibly fell into the arms of Pajares. Love had drowned then
all the worries, but now it was a holding dishonorable, a sale that resulted only assume it will shame
and embarrassment. The pride you did regain his post. Paintings, despite his fortune, it was still
the old dependent the husband of the maid Teresa, a poor devil who had always treated her with
contempt.

And why such a man would lose his prestige as an honorable woman, sustained for many years at
the expense of sacrifices that kept them in the mystery? No, before misery.

Dona Manuela, intoxicated with the power of resolution, I thought of poverty as something unknown,
but it was pleasant seeming to be the salvation of his honor. Would work She and her daughters.
Also duchesses, princesses and queens had been up in poverty, braving
dignity.

Dona Manuela, reviewing their limited knowledge of history, his pride was flattered and felt almost
like a dethroned sovereign falling into poverty. This enough to affirm it in its resolution.

When Rafael and Johnny came home, the family went to dinner.

The dinner was sad. Seemed the body lying down in the dirt on the block, was there on the table,
looking glassy-eyed and motionless with their former masters. After dinner, the two brothers left,
each going his own way.

Johnny had changed his habits. Did not return home until eleven o'clock at night, and then to
make a short visit to Tonic and Michelle, went to a cafe where people
gathered Exchange and could be seen daily reviews and prophecies of
"bullish" and "bears."

At nine p.m. Pajares received a visit from Andresito and dad. Dona Manuela to see his former clerk,
she blushed, as if he could guess the thoughts that had stirred little earlier.

Mr. Cuadros showed himself joyful and radiant, as if he is happy news
that in the yard nelet had given him.

"So the horse was dead? Come on, now explaining why they were that afternoon walk on the Alameda.
Was to feel the loss, because a horse to replace Bright worthily had to cost some money, but
what the devil! four or five thousand real or harm anyone. And the Lord spoke of money Tables
sneer throwing back her head and pulling the belly as if it were lined with bank notes.

The girls talked to Andresito near the piano, and Dona Manuela, calm and self-possession herself,
she stared at his former clerk. The shocked by the contempt with which that man spoke of money,
and received a bloody sarcasm the assumption that four or five thousand
reais meant nothing to her.

And thinking this, his eyes went instinctively into the marble of a console, where it had been
exhibited magnificent silver candlesticks now stored in the Monte de Piedad, and also looked
at the sticker adorning flights the classroom walls, replacing two
large paintings inherited from his father, the work of Juan Juanes,
for which he had given the need to live for a month.

The man, blinded by his fortune, did not know what he said. Like she was some years before
when he farms to sell or pawn and threw the money hand over fist. But now shameful and carefully
hidden poverty had taught him the value of money.

Mr. Cuadros, always ignorant of the true situation of the house, terribly upset Dona Manuela.
Wanted to appear friendly, and this made offers that were sarcasm. He is responsible for the purchase
of the horse.

How it would be cheaper, for a Shiny beast as beautiful as that would only pay about three thousand.
He knew the most famous horse-dealers. The horse he was riding his son had bought almost a bargain,
and now hoped to have the same fate.

- What is right for you, Manuela, is to buy the horse as soon as possible
because if people you see them walking many days like today make malicious
comments.

Those of us at some point look at us owe us a lot in our stuff.

And the lucky fool, talking of the height, closed his eyes as if he
felt the vertigo of which are at the top.

What caused the greatest effect in Dona Manuela was the claim that people would comment if
not shown in public as usual. Now reappeared the pride of his character, shuddering at the thought
of mortifying shame with which talk about his ruin.

She was non-resignation coping with poverty. Was determined. There be sustained in height, using all
means, and then to come around, until what only blush at the thought both produced.

And the lady vain to assert its resolution, seeking examples and remember
what I had so often heard in the infamous gossip gatherings: the innumerable
cases so decent ladies like her, well regarded by society, and who
had made sacrifices equal to salvage the prestige of their homes.

And supported by the pernicious example of those women who had both censored dependent looked old
with eyes that revealed a reasoned and calm immodesty. At last - she thought for comfort - Mr. Cuadros,
but vulgar and vulgarote, was a man acceptable, and had to resign
her other women, to seek the protection of a valetudinarian disgusting.

The

stockbroker sensed something in the eyes of the wife of his former principal. And credulity old skull
and innocent threw the body back with some pride, as if convinced
that their personal belongings had influenced such an amazing achievement.

The

visit ended at midnight, and when the father and son ran toward the door, accompanied by the
ladies of the house, Dona Manuela changed his last words to Mr. Cuadros.

-
We were - "Mrs. - that you will be responsible for the purchase of
the horse.

Tomorrow I trust that my request will be made.

- Oh, sure ...! You know that all things interest me as my own business.

- So, come tomorrow at three and give him the money.

- Will you shut up? And fix it later accounts .... But in the end, I will come to have the
pleasure of a chat.

And Mr. Cuadros left the house pleased with himself, snorting with satisfaction, swaggering as
a young and looking a bit sorry for her son, who walked beside him shy and timid. A cheerful
optimism made him forget that his father was. Ah! If instead of the fifty he had peak years of that
nerd, war had to give much in the world!

The next day, Mr. Cuadros was on time for three p.m. entered Dona Manuela, and was pleasantly
surprised to see that the woman was alone in the room, dressed with
the most elegant of gowns and face touched up with the finest concoction
toilet girls.

The stockbroker was like a rebirth of life, something that reminded her fever young, when
as chief clerk joked and chased the maid in the backroom Teresa Las Tres Rosas.

The girls had been sent by her mother's house "the judges." Juanito was in tent, and as Rafael, did not
have to wait until late at night.

In the dining room could hear the sound of silverware Visanteta dried, the only learned the visit
of Mr. Cuadros and how long it was. She was the one who heard the muffled laughter lady and the
dragging of some furniture, as if they were driven to violence, but a girl was cautious and
restrained, which only dealt with his actions, without pausing to interpret outsiders.

The next day the family could go for a ride in his carriage, and a younger horse and Bright took
best picture that the void that his death had left in the manger. The bitterness incurred
on that Sunday were forgotten before a few times abound and had enjoyed in that house. Doña
Manuela had money, started to pay bills regularly; providers do not bother and demanding payment
of arrears, and the French dressmaker, After pocketing a few thousand real thought lost forever,
the girls did Pajares new outfits to show off at the fair in July.

All was joy and peace in Dona Manuela, and impacted the family happy Las Tres Rosas, where we considered
the simple Teresa happy. She knew her husband had Clarita definitively broken, that "bad skin"
that lived on the streets of the port. And quarters did not pay the mezzanine, or attending to their
crazy spending.

What is more, a soul charity she had not heard that this loss was
deceiving him, mocking him with the kids Stock Exchange, and showed
himself unrepentant Antonio, ready to protect not just more women ilk.

The poor Teresa, to think that his former mistress was the one who had performed such a miracle,
attracting her husband on the right track, I felt such gratitude that he could not talk about it
without being to tears. What good person was Dona Manuela! She had only known catechize Mr.
Cuadros.

X

Juanito lived given the turmoil and anxiety of trusting their future to the whims chance.

He, so methodical and careful to fulfill their obligations, leaving the store to go to Bag with
his principal, or places where they met their peers operating financial. Valiente thing mattered
The Three Roses! She did not want to own the store. The first earnings, easily acquired with
sweet, I had stopped and thought only Be a Millionaire, to enslave fortune, now laugh about
those times when I dreamed Tonic to the humdrum existence and quiet bourgeois routine, after amassing
farthing capital farthing to spend old age quietly.

His girlfriend practically restrained financial enthusiasms.

There was to tempt fortune; and now that he was in favor, it was crazy not to retire on time.

But
Juanito refused to listen. What do the women in business? Why were there to stay in the middle
of the road, when he could follow his master to the paradise of millionaires? Increasingly
love Tonic, he flattered the idea of ??getting married immediately,
but this impulsábale same care to wait.

It was better to contain their desires for a few months, year at most, let their capital, turning
the bag, were enlarged as a snowball; they possess the long-awaited and respected million, making
the transformation was complete: enjoy watching the poor grisette became, under the direction
of his vain mother, in elegant lady, with big house, carriage and other trappings of wealth.

The
desire for swift action to this desired end was what made him bold and muted fears of a likely
ruin. Those who had known him in the past asombrábanse for radical change in his character.
His uncle, Don Juan did not speak and with him. One day gave broken relationship, it was about
to beat his nephew.

- Johnny, you're a fool - said the miser with his lips trembling with anger, erizándosele brush
mustache -. I always believed that your character had more than your father to my sister and
therefore I did but now I see that I cheated. I have lost bad company, that lying atmosphere in which
you live, your examples of wasteful mother's advice your principal fool, believed to be an oracle
in business to earn money for blind a whimsical mockery luck, and someday will pay all together,
giving me a taste you can laugh to see him shirtless. And you will do the same. Go if you
will ...!

Selling the garden to make you the owner of the Three Roses and marry this girl, who, as I
have understood, a good person, would have been like your uncle. And if you're missing something,
here was I to respond. So you had come to me: 'Dude, I need this, that and the other thing',
we at the end of the street.

But now, you understand? Do not count for anything with me.

As if you were my nephew. As I've gone to all of your family, and I can not love. I thought
you, want you to be the that was beside my bed at the hour of my
death, and to recount the four quarters I have, I said: 'This is for
the guy.

"But now I'm disappointed. Walk, walk, become a millionaire in the stock market, and if you get
into a beggar, do not come looking for me, because what will your guy is laughing at how gross
you are.

The sad break with his uncle Johnny. He had not known any other father, and also in their merchant
calculations, had always appeared the hope of being the heir of Don Juan. But the agitations
of the Exchange, and especially profits, cushioned sorrow the break.

When ends meet, earned the "differences," he said with surprise:

"It seems impossible for us to censure for taking a holding as true. But bah! Who makes these
people for tolerance! "

And between the stale not only included his uncle, but Don Eugenio,
the founder of Las Tres Rosas also expressed strong dissatisfaction
to the young.

Whenever Johnny was in the tent with the old merchant, it will soon glances of compassion
as contempt. Sometimes they even came to murmur reproachfully:

- Oh, Johnny, Johnny ...! I see you lost. Tables that demon drags you into perdition .... Do
not defend, do not try to justify yourself. Now you're doing very well so you can convince;
but the fry will be laughing.

And the old man turned his back, confident that the facts would come to support their forecasts.

Only
at home was Juanito applause and consideration. Her mother wanted more from I saw him handed
over to business. His son was no longer dependent on trade, was a stockbroker, and that always
provides higher social status. In addition, earnings were a source of hope for the widow,
that although he saw all their needs met this, I kept feeling worried
about the future.

Juanito's good fortune could solidify the prestige of the house.

The proximity of the July fair to the family concerned. Never had spent evenings so nice in the
house of the de Pajares. At night, after dinner came Mr Paintings, Theresa and her son, and began
the joyous reunion.

By open balconies penetrated the breath of neon hazy summer full of
enervating perfumes.

We encouraged the square. Heat cast their narrow dens people from the lower floors, and doors
were blocked by cliques of white shadows sitting on low chairs and breathing noisily. Up on the
roof, covering the Place a sheet of satin moth-eaten that was transparently infinite points of
light, sky the summer with his mysterious and opaque transparency. In the dark balconies could
be distinguished, among the pots of flowers and put the jug to cool
silhouettes scantily clad confusing.

Others open and lighted, bypassed, such as those of birds, the sound
click the piano, sometimes accompanied by the steady drip of new irrigated
pots.

In the corridors of the huge partíanse square watermelons, and women on the noserag chest to get rid of
spots, devoured the slices as crescents, wipe the red mouth juice. Whispered a door with a
melancholy guitar strumming, answering from another accordion with his shrill and nasal shriek.
The noises of the square, laughing of people, shouting that crossed between the cliques and popular
music, came in the cool of the evening in the lounge of the Pajares,
serving deaf support the conversation of the party.

Girls, Andresito, made plans for the next exhibition. They remembered the rigodones in Hall of Agriculture
and lively waltz in the Trade, thought of the costumes that had brought
the French fashion designer, and kept intact in order to knock on
the Alameda on the first night of the fair, and even felt their evil
little joy considering effect their cause in the friendly elegance.

The calm and happiness had returned to the house.

So Conchita, despite angry and moody character, we felt happy to see Roberto "returned to the
fold", being more in love than before. In the evening, leaving his friend Rafael, attended the
gathering of Pajares and not content with the long conversations there argued with his girlfriend,
still in the mornings, when it was Amparo the toilet, the maids in the Market and Mom in bed,
up the stairs, and landing to the open door of the room, over an hour talking to Conchita, until
Dona Manuela got up and started moving the house.

The major concern of the family were the three bullfights, the loudest
celebration of the fair.

The gathering had already completed their projects. Mr. Cuadros buy a box the best for both
families and the same thing that Teresa Pajares, proponíanse deslumbar audiences with its
elegance.

The girls had prepared their costumes to "my beautiful" and a number of times they had tried
before the mirror to learn to put in a natural and tasteful white blanket lace. As for the
two breasts, wearing dark suits thought silk, with costly shawls black, gifted to the two by
Mr. Picton.

The day came for the first run. The atmosphere seemed charged with a strange environment madness and
brutality.

Arremolinábase morning people, with pushing and shoving, around of resellers in the Plaza
de San Francisco hawked the "sun" and "shadow", and as if the city had just suffered an invasion,
stumbled in with people from everywhere the garden and people: some corduroy trousers and multicolored
blanket, and others types sly de la Ribera, dressed in black cloth,
fine, jacket over his shoulder, revealing the white sleeve shirt,
rubber boots get in the way, and holding a stick thin, almost childlike,
always moved with aggressive insolence.

The crowd had the same look in every street, as if the whole city had Dress according to the
same pattern. Cordoba hats white felt or seafaring straw-colored jackets, red ties, and in every
mouth a cigar inch.

The Descent of San Francisco was a rush on the endlessly rolling waves of crowds. The ponies Pamplona,
??covered with borlajes restless and bells rattling, passed like lightning through the crowd by
pulling the colored tartanillas, cars stately carriages and English, in whose banks erguíanse as
the swaying flowers girls dressed in pink or blue, his face enhanced by the frame of white
lace. The little people, the laying of the sun, went in groups, with the huge boot to the shoulder
and Liria cudgel in hand, smelling of wine and shouting, as if he
began to feel drunk insolation that awaited them in the square.

Ragged boys broke the waves of the crowd, offering life in Lagartijo Cie. hallelujah, history and portraits
of the six bulls that were to deal, or hawked about Wood fans rough and in which a clumsy hand
was stamped as a bull a skin of wine and a bullfighter who looked like a frog skinned.

The thrill-seekers babieca agolpábanse off the inns where they were staying gangs, patiently awaiting
the departure of the bullfighters play with respect to the braid diestrus. People pushed through
with curiosity each time a chopper packaging on the chair and the boy went to the rump riding
his pony bony and gaunt, he had to the square with a trot mess.

Among the carriages thundering streets quickly and crossed the center of the city Tables spent
the stroller, and behind it a reel that would rent the Pajares. Doña Manuela preferred site,
dusted and touched up with such art, which produced her face Print some sticking out between the
festoons of black lace, and in front of her girls hilarious as a bullfighting magazine chrome with
low shoe, fishnet stockings, skirt half-step with a net full of strawberry and looking boldly
on the white cloud that enveloped their lovely heads, closing over the chest with a bunch of carnations.

What
a beautiful evening! They never felt the happier Pajares life. In descending of her carriage in front
of the plaza, the compliments showered on them, and for all there,
up to the mother, breathing loudly and blushed, pleased with the win.

Undoubtedly they were the ones that are most attracted attention across the plaza. There was
only seeing them in the negligently fanning box, while much of the masters of lying, placed standing
and turning his back to the ring, looked fixedly, with eyes of desire.

Mr. Cuadros was proud of his situation. I could not complain about life. Won as wanted, like a boy
with his outfit clear, red tie and the big cigar, which ring kept the paper for everyone to
know of its price. On one side Teresa had, quietly and without feeling the slightest suspicion of infidelity,
and the other to Dona Manuela proud of the admiration that she and
her children woke up in a part of the square.

He felt satisfied with the situation, Mr. Cuadros, and the greedy eyes fixed on the stage seemed
to him a tribute to him. You could not ask for more happiness. Satisfied
with the awareness and with pleasure. On one side the legitimate wife,
the other, Dona Manuela, the satisfaction of the flesh the food of
vanity, and the two families of which he was the point of attachment,
happy, luxurious, drawing public attention thanks to her good luck
/ that allowed throw handfuls of thousands of pesetas. The stockbroker,
savoring his good fortune, claimed mentally God is very good, and
did not know what, given a confidence that will soon be a millionaire
teníala by indisputable.

In the back of the box was the son of Tables
and the two of Dona Manuela, with twins in hand, watching the look
of the plaza. In the laying of shadow, the circular tiers was a white
hat stepping down to the barrier. Some hoods charged of flowers or
shiny hair, standing on the shawls from Manila, broke the monotony
the rows of white spots. The doors of the boxes abríanse noisily,
and appeared in the rails, covered with the national colors, white
blankets, faces smiling, hair flowers, whole spring was greeted by
screaming fans below, standing on wooden benches.

Opposite the sun
cracked skin that force out sweat, the smoke was clothes and put on
a fire helmet on each head, bewildered, was the demagoguery of the
party, waiting impatiently noisy item, so willing to throw into the
arena hats in honor of the right, such as banks and sticks in protest