 

Since the establishment of Black River to the lagoon-lauquen Huechum land, its distance not
even reach 160 leagues to the top of Diamond to open way too comfortable carts along the same
river, which washes the largest livestock rescue and relief. A site can be conceptualized 120
leagues: from him at this gap 40, and from this to Valdivia 20, so that the whole distance being
180 miles, the 120 is very smooth turnpike road and comfortable, the 40 with time maybe you
will in the same provisions, applicable to soften some missteps, and the remaining 20 is the
only bad thing is that travel. But this, as explained by Indians, not those aviaries and cliffs
to the Mendoza Chile. Compare, then, the increase of this from Buenos Aires, which went from
500 leagues, painful and risky for the crossing of the pampas, of water scarcity and Indians,
with short soft and can be opened by the Black River, and the safety of these infidels, taken its
main avenues and places, that is another issue that matters most to the prosperity Buenos Aires,
as I will show in place, expressed through the populations.

I've talked to Promote the concept to what I discovered in the Black River to the Plaza de Valdivia;
regardless of the recognition of Diamond Rio, or Sanquel, which made observation Villarino
the pilot, at the confluence of this river with the Black, 38 degrees 44 minutes and other combinations
and news, there is reason to hope, has with the Tunuyan, which passes by the city of Mendoza,
and to be certain they discover equal proportions.

We arrived as the most important point, and that happiness lies across the province, this is to repair
the destruction caused by livestock in the vast Indian campaigns and borders Buenos Aires, in book to
those who disbelieve so many deaths, robberies and captivity, to take advantage the vast fields
that mediate this capital Black River, where you can expand and encouraged raising cattle,
which must be one of the branches has to sustain this facility and support of others. The issues
are very serious, but their happiness depends on a same cause, which
is to restrain the Indians.

News acquired by the recognition of the river that made Villarino, we found reports had been many
Indians, having no other way those of the nation Tehuelche Villiches, Puelches, and other inhabitants
of the Huechuhuehuem nations, near Valdivia é in the mountains, the site called the Choelechel,
to travel to Colorado mountains Window, Tandil, Volcano, Cashuatí, and frontiers of Buenos Aires,
for lack of watering the other spot, and be impassable terrain. The safety of these particular news
made me believe it spread to all nations of Indians, that cause us much harm, and taking that
step were sugetos.

This concept encouraged me to repeat the request to Mr. Viceroy to occupy and to ensure.

Later an Indian tried very cunning, and practices of those sites Vastis called José Yati, who
disabused me, informing me that the step was respectively Choelechel Indian nations that I mentioned,
but not all, as I had two paths where they came, and penetrated: one fell to the Salinas, where salt
has provided Buenos Aires with the carts, and is gone from the Indians Peguenches and Aucases,
whose leader named Guchulap, and the other farther north and not
far from the city of Córdoba, who attend those Ranqueles nation.

The reason for using different ways these nations, is the enmity that
have a with others, and be more immediate to their lands to become
as common in traffic, had to go through those of its neighbors.

The other two roads is a matter that deserves more attention in the day, because we have no knowledge
physicist of them, which does not occur with that of Choelechel:
just talked on the news reports and Indians, and you need a formal
discovery to pull these lines Parages for their safety.

Even without the news of these important reasons, in office from July 31, 1781, I proposed to Viceroy
Lord how useful it was to be gaining knowledge of the Indian nations inhabiting fields of Buenos
Aires, its shelters and retreats, where he began to secure, when they saw persecuted, or attacked
us, to which he had intended to try to the peons, Antonio Godoy and Juan Jose Gonzales, with
the pretext to go to their tents to buy cattle, lead them brandy, beads, and grass, with whose gifts
were being familiar with some, and taking other news, the only way he could overcome these difficulties.
Record showed equal he said His Excellency. Lord would be useful to practice from the borders of
Buenos Aires and his guards sugetos allocating adapted to the case,
with whose knowledge was easy with two expeditions come out of this
capital and Black River contain and restrain.

This proposal was welcomed, and Godoy and Gonzales sent with letters to habiéndolos SE, and this
being the first who ventured to walk the way through so many Indians, and given knowledge
to the journey made by the pilot D. Paul Sisur by land to the establishment,
both had the unfortunate end to stop at a prison, which prison he
delivered his own innocence.

Notwithstanding the contempt with which it was my proposal, the continued abuse and theft Indians
forced the Viceroy Lord to identify shipments that have come from Cordoba, Mendoza and the
capital, but not the Black River, which is the most immediate camp
site to them.

The cause I can not understand me much room but the opposition of the establishment. God will not
spoil those costs, have left open that gate.

These expeditions were the best principles to discover and recognize the two aforementioned steps and
roads, for those of Mendoza and Córdoba be crossed, and share them with their instructions
and news commanders, with the same spending levels rose to those
sites, accompanying optional sugetos sincerity and truth, and not
full of prejudice Queen of the establishments that: whether you have
admitted, they may serve as much news.

Taken from a true understanding of these steps and pathways, could fortify and repair, extending
to them the border guards, because they cut these avenues, and the Choelechel, the other campaigns
were free, and to Buenos Aires, Rio and Black populations they shook hands on the ground for communication,
for the breeding and promotion of livestock, and the extension of
their populations.

See then that were so big advantages to the province, and even to the entire kingdom and safety
recognition of these steps.

The huge Indian they fall to provide themselves with horses and cattle, is a lobster, pest
or its destruction, that had it not been a very long and very fertile fields, I would not breed.
The end does not hurry, give an idea of ??his wealth safe and propagation; ceasing this cause will
be most advantageous for increased trade corambre that, as a result of earth, deserves attention
for being the first permanent and non-poor. The populations of Buenos Aires fields would go take
another increase and extension, particularly if they were met them to neighbors, who live on farms
scattered uninhabited, as is mandated by repeated royal decrees: for this concealment is perjudicialísimo
the spiritual good of those souls, and real legislation, for lack
of instruction in our holy Christian dogmas; rarely frequent the sacraments
of Penance and Eucharist, and have almost no, recognize or obey and
whom to fear: so that differ little from the savage Indians.

This method of government is the destruction of themselves, because the lot extension, which
mediates one farm to another, leaves room for the Indians to steal cattle, engage and kill
their inhabitants, whose misfortunes contribute to a greater part
of which often go to these infidels, communicating news and safe routes
to their invasions, so any spoil.

I heard on the Black River by the Indians, and that made voyages both expressed Godoy and Gonzales
pawns in this evil in our time have been repeated instances I made the Viceroy Lord to punish
them with rigor egemplar is learned have committed such horrific crime, and realized together
to know one of these ungodly who led them: that was so extreme cruelty,
which were not exempt from it their own parents, whom he killed in
one of the entries made with the Indians.

Populations reduced to the neighbors of these farms will have different
instructions and government and through standards which are scored,
there sugetos knowledge of the missing at people, and may be known
for another facility of his whereabouts.

I can not ignore, for a lot of knowledge acquired in the five years I've been trying these savages
in the Black River, how useful is the method we observe the French in their Indies with such
barbarians, and with what reason we are recommended by Lord Ward in its draft economic. Without me the
news milder these rules, I followed, and is notorious good harmony that I have kept with them,
and how useful it has been the promotion of the establishment: and can not be said to be the
best to are those that these fields, because there have busy on here
hurt us.

All I have maintained a true friendship and good faith except for some stolen horses, that even among
ourselves we are not free.

This experience demonstrates the importance of putting in the wards, or people who are established
sugetos of kindness, talent and opinion to deal with the Indians and that in exchange for beads
and other effects that do not harm us, they enter with them their
own fruit trade; such as rabbit fur, skunk, guanaco, and guaracha,
reins, dusters, ponchos and other effect that abound in these means
we reconcile its own merits and acquiring their friendship as they
do and achieve the French.

I have shown the method and hopes of the many utilities that can make the establishment Black
River, the vast and important of them shows the creation or formation of a new kingdom. All
acrescentan trade, increase, or form a Marine Corps commercial, which is the largest nerve in
the happiness of a monarchy, and thus attract increasing populations. This can not be undertaken
in the present time, little by little it is necessary go ahead, and shaking hands with each other,
in proportion to their prosperity and benefits. A cautious, wise and zealous government, inflamed
with the spirit of patriotism, without intermission other enthusiasms, under a real protection,
which we in the day, taking all the growth and happiness of the vast
domains governing will be the main bases and columns which support
and sustain the successful outcome of these prove useful.

                         

PART THREE.

The short early establishment of the Black River, and his stubborn opposition, because of so
much waste and costs, [C] you have so much in the air, that the minor storm, everything he
gives ground.

For their preservation and increase, it takes much skill and pulse, because real estate is not
in state spending and the multitude of reports and papers submitted to the Court, have warmed
to that first fervor that was promoted by deleting in its real spirit foundations and causes,
and if not now seeks to hold, all is lost.

These reflections made me, or rather, forced to give the report of February 16 This year, by order
of 14 of the Viceroy Lord asked me D. Juan Jose de Vertiz, to fix
the setting in the manner commanded by His Majesty, the royal order
of 1. º August.

The blind obedience and the deplorable state of these issues gave me no other measure, to express the
manner and form of their reduction, leaving room for so short that promoted root, and produjese
the high expectations I have expressed previously, as having said I do that in that state could
not survive, was preparing his whole hurricane debris.

They reformed to establish the single number of 12 families propose the means of its conservation
and subsistence, and open field with the promotion of whaling, and supply of salt for to hold
and flourish without spending real estate, and these are the only means have to sustain and
encourage, and should deserve all the attention of this Government.

While the former is of more importance than the second, this is soon
and easily, because spending in the province does not cease, and beseeching
order of His Majesty, to not allow in Spain loading and driving of
this kind to the ports of Rio de la Plata, and is prohibited where
the carts go to Salinas as has hitherto been practiced, it is this
advantage to the benefit of that population, and its neighbors engaged
in the work of its stocks and the release of its fruits, achieve profitable
use of the industry and trade; with the whaling established in the
port of San Jose will be more important.

If the state who are Indians and our expeditions in scope, forces that to strengthen that port
with more troops, is another building and utility of the neighbors because the money your
loan is as much to his benefit, they were seeking to make successful those lands Working with
industry and its work, taking different approach than they have been, and because its natural
indolence and laziness, and now by the seductions with which discouraged and warm so that they
apply to agriculture, assuring them that soon they were to out of that fate, and move them to the
fields amenísimos Montevideo, which abound in both livestock, without bothering to get rich quickly
we could bring, were those who by all means sought to make useless the population. And these influences
are encouraged to devote their cries Mr. Vertiz, considering the barrenness of the land, the dangers
to which they were exposed Indians, and the rigor of the Super-intendant, because his zeal,
efficiency and fatigue would not let sleep on their laziness leisure,
and forced them to work in agriculture, which media productions have
checked off their reports.

The conclusion of the works of the fort is another medium that has to contribute for the benefit of
residents, because the money that cause these expenses, such as that provided leads the troops
in their benefit, all coadyuba to the same end, but we need active and industrious people;
and this is one of the most essential points to keep in mind the
superior government, because or little or nothing will work and give
them out to their fruits, if given to men not the advantage, before
they despise themselves.

The expenditure should be reformed is the cause to the exchequer for the launches establishments
to King's account, because this is the highest consideration, and only is useful to their employers
or masters. Through trade with salt and fishery Whale provides supply mode setting as caresca and
needs, and facilitate the transport of detachments of workers and troops to move out: for the
former contributes its own interest, because these genres are sold on the premises, and their
utilities take the cost of transportation of salt, and to realize they will pay the wages of
and driving out to the dock to the neighbors. For the second may be stipulated by regalia of
these licenses, and when not, unless you have cost him the King to pay the freight when Offer,
to keep a boat, you have to import the whole of each year six thousand
dollars, and much freight will not be pushed up to five hundred.

If you have a strengthening effect on the Rio Black troops, perhaps opportunity will be provided
containing the Indians, and free from fears the people, can be extended in the argricultura egercicio,
and raising cattle, they either have to be the most solid foundation on which rests, and secure
the population, attracting more neighbors, which themselves form bodies for resist, and chastened
at all times. The land, in the proportion provided by the river, using art, at little cost
can benefit from irrigation, as I have shown Viceroy Lord in office March 26 next year earlier,
number 26, and even without means that there suggest, if neighbors
are applied, with wells that horses can meuvan advance much, mostly
when there is no charge, and very little about the cost these animals.

All of which seems to have persuaded the near misses and worries of our Catholic monarchs to
project and promote these establishments have been effects of a deep knowledge and study on religion
and politics that these two bases of any government illustrated Christian, were the foundation
of the expeditions of Sarmiento. The two brothers of Nodal, the captain of Olivares, the Padres
Cardiel, Quiroga and Strobl, the capital of frigate D. Francisco Pando, that of D. Perlier
Sunday, and lately they have left Montevideo and Buenos Aires, to the commissions have been entrusted
to the two brothers, who, notwithstanding of all the rivals that want to contradict these establishments
always be useful, by the trade promotion provided in whaling, in the conduct of salt to Buenas
Aires, and output of meat of cattle that he raises large campaigns; to facilitate smoother port
for navigation and commerce to the South Sea, to close and defend the door to our enemies, ensuring
the interior of the kingdom, for progress the extension of their populations, because they are
the best trench to contain the wild Indians, who after the manner of a raging torrent flooded the
fields every day, taking behind him innumerable cattle, horses and cattle, sad ravage the neighboring
rooms border to the capital, making the roads unsafe, and victim of his wrath to many unfortunate
people, who die inhumanely each day to his hands, horribly and frightening. And finally be
achieved most of the profits, which consists of men and Christian men to this great number of
savages. Utilities that can be reconciled without the extravagance of the royal treasury and are
as I set out to describe the three parts of this report, in which if there was any less worthy
expression should be attributed to zeal with which I look at these establishments, it has
never been my intention to censure my words to anyone. Sugeto all the above correction to
the VE; flattered that taking the proper purpose for which they are issued, has to conceal
any defects found. Yes, Lord Exmo., How can I doubt that in the spirit VE, have benign host
some thoughts directed to the prosperity of the state and the increased religion? VE, weighing
all things in the balance of knowledge, achieves better than me, what matter is proposed to
employ all the activity of their zeal towards the royal service. She can make a glorious time
in the happy days of the VE command, who as always will do its best .-- Buenos Aires, 1. First
of May, 1784.

                    Francisco de Viedma.

       

        

                               * * * * *

CONTENTS OF WORK CONTAINED IN THE FIRST VOLUME.

I.

Argentina History of discovery and conquest population of the provinces of the River Silver,
Rui Diaz de Guzman.

                              

Preliminary Discourse editor of that work.

Times of some major events, according to the points the author of
the Historia Argentina.

                             

Table of degrees of latitude in some cities and Parag, as are certain in the course of that history.

II.

D.
journey Luis de la Cruz from the fort of whales to the city of Buenos
Aires.

                              

Editor's introductory speech of the journey.

                               

Appraisal of what can import a path from the strong Antuco to Buenos
Aires.

Distance tables relating to the voyage.

III.

Description of the nature of the land, and customs of the Peguenches,
by D. Louis Cross.

IV.

                              

Description of Patagonia, by Father Thomas Falkner.

Preliminary Discourse editor of that work.

                             

V.

Paths and journeys to the Enchanted City, or of the Caesars.

                            

Editor's introductory speech on the following documents.

---- Derrotero by Tandil and the Volcano, by Rojas.

---- Letter
from Father Cardiel on the discovery of the Caesars.

---- Letter
from Father Lozano on the Caesars.

---- Derrotero from Buenos Aires
to the Caesars, by Falkner.

Related news ---- acquired on the Caesars,
by Pinuer.

---- Letter to the Viceroy of Peru on the Caesars, for
Jauregui.

---- New Discovery prepared by the Governor of Valdivia.

----
Statement on the city of the Caesars, by Villagra.

---- Report and
opinion of the Attorney Chile, on the Caesars.

VI.

Diary of a journey
to the Costa Magellan from Buenos Aires to the Strait, formed on observations
of the PP. Cardiel and Quiroga, by Father Pedro Lozano.

Editor's
Note.

VII.

Translational representation on the borders of Buenos
Aires to Rio Black and Colorado by Undiano and Gastelu.

Itinerary
of a journey from Buenos Aires to the city of Talca, by Hill and Zamudio.

Editor's
Note.

VIII.

Report on the obstacles encountered, and the benefits
they promise establishments Patagonian coast, from Viedma.

Editor's
introductory speech