 It is a palace, like no other in Havana. You should not stand in hairs:
this is the salvation of your most beloved son. My account are the purchase and empowerment
of the cage, yours runs the domestication of the bird has to occupy.

Fixed the plan and distributed the papers, his Don Candido played without delay or difficulty. Doña
Rosa, on the contrary, due to its peculiar character from the first
steps put insurmountable obstacle to the realization of the project.

Entered through a lot in the composition of a haughty Dona Rosa and suspicion to they often cease
to be unjust and unwise in their domestic relationships ... Nobody better Leonardo knew the weakness
of his mother. As soon as she told him the project conditions domestication, all founded in his resignation
to the possession of Cecilia, decided predispose poking against her husband's jealousy of
his wife at the most. Bastola for which it referred, without naming it, as he had heard from
Cecilia, referring to illegal dealings and Don Candido suspects the young and the old neighborhood
for a long time Angel behind, to the money in them was spending with extravagance or generosity
of the old love, the stranger had always taken interest in the maintenance and welfare of two
women, to the vigilance with which the girl was jealous care and health elderly, in short, the
effective and consistent services in these dubious businesses morality
had lent Montes de Oca.

Each and every one of these reports, along with others already mentioned, had reached the ears
Dona Rosa at different times and through various channels.

The relationship of late and rigged son only served to complement and confirm what she knew
by heart or merely suspected.

It appears unnecessary to add that in this case, as in all of its kind, stocked the weed their
malignant effect.

Well, that irritated the mother against the father for the alleged continued violation of conjugal
faith, in revenge or retaliation hatched in secret with the child to be mine to blow up the parapets
raised by Don Candido in defending the honor of Cecilia Valdés. A Dona Rosa execution committed
their money and influence.

To help in the arduous undertaking, it required only three conditions: one, that the child
continue to graduate studies degree in law, another to marry Isabel Ilincheta end of the year,
and the third, to accept, without complaint, the gift of the palace, with that very subject, he
did his father. Everything promised Leonardo plane.

The first step was to request the services of Mary Rule, that nurse
The Tinaja wit, whose guile and talent recognized mother and child
together, Despite the animosity with which they looked. Prestose it
the best wins, both because it was in its nature the role of conspiracy,
since it promised to pay with goods of many evils received at the
hands of the two. From then after work began on the sap.

There was
a real revolution Cecilia entry at the home of the Collected