 Where we ran a little hand was in my cabinet. "For what it is occur, "he had
told me the architect. Entendióme intention, and despatched to your liking, and mine too.

With these plans and details in the light, I asked Neluco what should be purchased beyond to
the fundamentals of the works, I bought in Madrid purely decorative accessory and I was missing,
the Mountain and it soon. Come on, who was I with these things as children with new shoes.

Neluco began in May the works, and the end of June, when they were finished the main and more cumbersome
and disbanded north wealthy people of Madrid, I went to Mountain with a disability who got scared.
This time I stayed in Reinosa to take the way of the port, but much further down, to stay
on the plain to the mouth Nansa, and then continue upstream. This way, though longer, was less
uncomfortable for me, and almost indispensable for the conduct of the baggage that came after.

Tablanca When I arrived, I found its people amazed at what they were seeing in the house. That
rattling of tools and bustle of workers and collecting materials, had not ever dreamed of
in that town, where he built a house not a work that no task pass to lift a "jastial" or replace
a rafter, or straighten a summit in could remember of the oldest. Asustábales mainly the fortune
it would cost everything, and then the fear that "by the visual that was taking the house from
the inside" they closed the door and the kitchen, holding them in a little to give them free access
as before. It took God and help convince them otherwise, even letting them see with their own eyes,
as it had done Neluco see more than twice without any fruit, which is not played kitchen or to
profane with money, and only reached the reforms to pieces and the main staircase. But most
of these demonstrations on the ground, convinced them the tirade that I long, almost a whole
sermon on what had been, was and would, while I lived, that solar noble for tablanqueses, the
importance given and would always their gatherings, and it was determined that things continue there
and in my life Uncle ... Convenciéronse at last, but not without being also convinced me that
the reason said, without being heard us believe that you, a friend of mine, very passionate
about the military, to be made very cautiously in reforming 'institutions' old, even to to
improve, because sometimes, two buttons more or less in the traditional uniform can influence even
into disrepute or in the discipline of the regiment that he uses.

As this was the first thing that struck me reach Tablanca, the first
thing comes up in this chain of memories of those days and events,
as to give preference to the memory of the most pleasing, very different
from other link had begun.

I say for printing Lituca caused me unspeakable, whom he had left something sad and wrapped
in the heavy winter clothes, and found smiling like a dawn of April, and overflowing with youth
and coolness in summer habits, simple to poverty, but clean and cheerful as the plumage of doves
cooed from the flower garden. Then funds scenario in which towered so gentle figure, before naked,
cold, stiff, waterlogged in water or shrouded in snow, now Nature smiling and dressed in their
best pump galas, the lush green meadows, lush forests and talkative with the murmur of the breezes
frolicking in the foliage and spreading throughout the valley, the exquisite fragrance. It took
me contain a lot of work on my tongue the waves coming up from my heart when I saw first time
in front of the creature that every day I revealed with new attractions I noticed that she's
reading my struggle in the expression of my eyes or the tone of my voice was right not to paint
with the colors that imposed "circumstances" with pleasure coming back to me. Meanwhile, his mother,
grandfather, Neluco, Don Sabas, Chisco, all my servants, sister and brother-Neluco, who had greeted
my time Robacio, the neighborhood Tablanca whole, everyone seemed to rejoice to the enthusiasm
with my lap and my plans and purposes. This flattered me a lot and even came to get excited,
and all giving shelter and refuge, Lituca image at the bottom of my heart, beginning to doubt
and very seriously if it came from one that new light that I embellished everything surrounded me, or
was it real and something that can positively, by his own, to make the miracle of my life rapid
conversion to another shortly before seemed unbearable. Because the truth is that I had come
to Tablanca first in the harsh winter and the worst conditions imaginable for acclimatization
at the "medium", a man my background, and viewed in the light of the summer sun, were the very
things look very different. The valley, summer dress, was up beautiful, people, lively and
cheerful, the panoramas, much more interesting for the abundance of light and cleaning the
horizons, the temperature to warm into the lower, the festivals and pilgrimages, abundant ...
and most solemn and the first original one I had pondered my uncle a lot, but not all that
truly deserves: that of sharing yerba del Prao-council in August, lasts eight days, the real party
of labor.

The whole town attends empingorotada that vast prairie, evening gown, for the appointment of
'primers', under the chairmanship of the "ruler" competent and to see how those "officials"
after telling the magistrate, uncovering his head: "Discuss the primers', with wand in hand
and without knowing a jot of geometry and triangulation problems, they demarcate fairly admirably
"hazas" or lots for the whole neighborhood, how hazas groups are
fielding a number of neighbors, how to rise before dawn the designated
for the day, and mow the grass and left to air and down the people
in the same day, in "Basner"

(sort of dray) contained in its descent by the rapid decline of the mountain a pair of oxen attached
behind each Basner, and how it continues this patriarchal task for a week without a single protest, not
having a single injured in the distribution, and how to fill the places of hay Tablanca of
that fine, meaty and fragrant, which is a real wealth of the valley, whose beautiful cattle are well-deserved
reputation be the best in the province.

After this busy solemnity, that removed the entire neighborhood and left him exhausted by double
fatigue revelry and work, I arranged the marriage of Tona I Pito Salces. No one could already barbarian,
who kept on begging me, his head bowed, eyes closed and rubbing his hands, which had just license
the monsoon to "take a lau aqueyu, more quantitative before. "

Chisco hopped on, I told him the case and said:

- And you do you solve it or you do not solve the same?

To which I replied mozallón first with a rascally little smirk, and then These words, uttered with
the greatest calmness,

- Well I risueltu ... they do not.

- After thinking about it? - I asked.

- Wow - I answered by taking a little behind the head and putting
the tips of your hands pants pockets.

And then he added in his gentle, unhurried style -: When Juí probe,
I closed the doors on mesmus I open them now "parracil" because I
am manhood of caudalis, and that a unu esu is estimi by what you have
and not what he validity of at yes mesmu ... Jorrios! to otru with
toast, for I am zorru vieju and as mayormenti me I do not rush these
things ... tampocu as long as you fail to estorbi him in the house
with me on my trabaju, pa tien Largu sirvienti placenteru.

Congratuléme it a lot, by the fact that I had to keep a servant of the rare clothing that ...
and just the other day of this event was when I 'made her' round.

Neluco found myself with the cabinet, whose major works were already completed, and we were
concerned unpack the two things of many that had brought me to Madrid
to decorate, while crushed and could hear the chants to the damper
of the workers in the next room, until steps even when I stood before
the family of Don Pedro Nolasco, that with the appeal of the works,
often rose to the house, although not as much as the doctor and the
priest, not missing it one day.

Was the hot afternoon, and premiered Lituca a white cotton dress with blue stripes, with which,
some Zapatinas notched a cocoon pink in the hair near the ear, and
a flowery heather penquita in the mouth, it was truly magical.

Above the half-opened boxes, on the marble plateau fireplace, built in front of the door at the base
of the mouth with which art had replaced the bulkhead of the bedroom, and pulled to the corners
of the room had developed rich parts imitating paper trim and gleaming metal ornaments beaded
gold ... Mary, the exclamations that made Mari Pepa to see him, thinking that this value an
asset, not counting how much he liked!

- Oh, my lord, Don Marcelo, who has lived in the dark one in these parts, not knowing pinch of pumps
that are given away in the powerful world nations! Look who have démontrer these beauties
so shiny that you never dreamed of here! What do you paez, my daughter? Father What do you paez?
Look to campaign in earnest! ... Go, go! And that fact, pa what Don Marcelo? "Onde get those
things as pestles? A's see if we found out that it is good to know everything.

Lituca smiled without saying a word, gazed in silence and pasmadote his grandfather's reíase Neluco
earnestly, and me, making me very grace that spontaneity of Mari
Pepa, satisfying very happy wishes explaining the fate of everything
and the many others which were not sight, paying special attention
to describe the cabinet, so that you completely understand Lituca
as would be after completion.

And as to describe, after this I description of all the pieces reformed so that they have an idea
of ??the intonation general home improvement simple and inexpensive, relative to my way of seeing
and living there, but cause for wonder and amazement for Mari Pepa, which ended by telling
me facing it with me:

- Well, not me, Don Marcelo, who cross through the wealthy because they spend their money on
sought the gift of life while not forgetting the poor, and Nah, you do; but neither of which swallow
the toast without knowing the taste ... Well, well ... Here look no further than the first blow
paez ... because all these perendengues and other such antójanseme too much for one man ...
And God forbid that I Match and that either and the sooner, Don Marcelo ... Then also tell
her that high lift crest, it has to fit here ... Well, well, that a queen can live in that palace
... Jesus, Lord ... So rather than later, Don Marcelo, who just like that, is not leftover
Genton of viso of this poor lugarón ... But what I tochadonas Nah, you dare to tell, Virgin
is my mother!

... "Not true, Mr. Marcelo, who will be able forgive myself?

The unexpected occurrence of the woman in front of Lituca in whom I had made the eyes and thought
constantly, puzzled me in those terms, I did not know answer rather than a mechanical laugh,
and I was so strange deep impression on the soul I took the match as the voice of my destiny
that I said "now or never." Stubborn in the idea and feeling it grow and overwhelming at times
to see what I saw early in the attitude violent and face Lituca indefinable, I approached the
doctor as they covertly I could, and asked him, for love of God, get me out of there at Don Pedro
Nolasco and her daughter, as I said two words to her granddaughter. I approached to it right
away with the excuse to teach I do not know what goodies they showed
through the red paper in a box half-open; She took Neluco others toward
the crossing, and I said as we were alone:

- Your mother you are
right, so it touches the fate of these works: they are not for myself,
but wrong in the main, in what was the most beautiful queen who desire
share this humble castle of my lordship.

Not asked you if you want to know, because want it or not, is of great necessity for me to
know it, and you will now know same ... Serve as the government that this woman whom I want
to make this humble Queen palace, and especially of its owner, you, Lita. Tell me if you do not
like the throne that I offer, to set fire immediately.

It was the poor, pale and trembling, as if she hesitated on the massive rock of Bejos, and I saw
and I wanted to pluck an answer as strict as I wanted. Put in this endeavor, I pegajosón and
slimy as a first-time young man ... What the devil! as will philanderers up more "lizard" when things
are going really and put on the play so much of himself as 'mine' put me in it. Finally, removing
a pulse and rejoicing in the confusion that prevented the more explicit
unhappy with me, I knew everything I needed know, and a little that
I was given a reward of labor it cost me to buy it.

Had much fear, the innocent, something that came at me from noticing "some day", fear that he
dared not to confess even to his own conscience, for what she knew the truth and uncertainty,
of good and evil in these things? I now put him clear, suddenly, "without further no more ', yo!
a man so knowing the world and the treatment of the educated, wealthy and the best stage of life
to choose between good how much I would have known in other hand, because everything, however
great it was, I deserved it, to it! aldeanuca poor and ignorant, the dark and secluded corner
of the earth.

And this awareness he had about how vile own miserable self, why did not doubt what he saw and
touched? And if you think about it, how not frightened with the certainty that I would leave
all the accounts that had driven me to propose that the proposed, or what penalty, tomorrow,
more terrible to her than not be able to make a man happy so high and had since given away!

What remonísima was when I said these things with altered voice and awkward word, stripping their
lanterns embodied in one hand, and not very firm, holding penquita heather with the other, eyes
wet and cowardly, rosy cheeks and a little hectic the breast! She well and I encourage her to look
'tenderly' and the syrupy words, we represented eternally corny scene in the eyes of a spectator
dispassionate and cold, but I they had been until then, was to sublime, and I mixed feelings
and impressions that I had never noticed in the depths of my heart.

He finished the scene, like so many other theater in which they pretend these passages of human life
"Hearing himself steps" outside, and leaving us, waving and saying nonsense "to conceal, to
meet the arriving.

And put things here and what do you do? Then I did the next day down to the village to formally
ask the hand of Lituca his grandfather and his mother, having given
the night has resolution to cure my Don Sabas and the doctor who put
me in the clouds particularly the first, even cried with excitement,
and, by choice, had sent bells ringing in celebration of the event,
which was providential for house, for me to Lituca and the entire
valley and true.

Down, then, to the people that unforgettable morning on a recent day of August recapitulating
the most substantive and practical than they had thought a lot at night; last looked, with eyes
of imagination, the landscape of my past life my probable location with the directions adopted
in it, examined after the event box and impressions that I had brought those lately so outlandish
adventures; empeñábame again distinguish main accessory, the cause
and effect in complex lots of ideas and impressions that filled my
head and heart, sometimes impassioned sentíame and courageous, and
sometimes a little less, but never repented nor discouraged ...

--...
And finally - I got to tell me - if that mediquillo theories are well
founded; the reconstitution of the body degenerate and rotten to come
by pure-blood extremities, someone has to start this work eminently
humanitarian and patriotic.
