 They had to prevent some bottles, and they left empty, tested to drink some
alcohol, toiletries, cologne or something, laughing at the faces and nausea that caused some
scented liquid.

- When we were happier, came the quarrel between the Belgian and German relative Nelida the two
closest friends, always together since they entered the ship. I believe that the background
hated without knowing it. Needless to say to you who the real culprit ... Who it be? ... Nelida.
And the funny part is that neither the name, but both had it in thought. They were angry for
days, since the girl you noticed. It was fortunate that you did not walk last night by the ship.
We would have had a disappointment.

The two rivals were responsible for the deviation of the girl. Each of them imagined that of being
left alone at her side might have to withhold. But they were hampered with each other's presence,
ending up in strength Nélida tire of rivalry and jealousy. And this silent hatred that the two
had in his mind had broken out in the morning with speed and inconsistency of drunken quarrels.
A few words offensive to which he paid no attention to the rest of
the band, and suddenly the air bottles, slapping, melee.

- A very
sad, friend Ojeda.

By the will of the German, the spot was over the incident. He has a swollen eye and the other carries
in what looks like a cheek tumor. The two are alike. No longer needed to be friends again ... But
the Belgian understands things differently. Brings up his barony, and also I think it was a second
lieutenant in the National Guard do not know what or reservation of your country. In short, it
has drawn his sword and his commitment to fight with pal, then shake hands in peace. And both have
been entrusted to me in this of mourning.

Maltrana modestly excused himself.

- Do not miss you this choice.

They have learned that I had in our country some challenges (because with them I was the bread),
and look at me with such respect as if the Round Table ... Furthermore, it has also influenced
my success oratory last night, the new prestige around me. One who speaks well is known to fit all
... up to rule people.

And Fernando could not give him what he needed, he moved away in search of weapons. Would do
the same question to other passengers of distinction, and if they had no "by chance" a box
of pistols, a revolver would arrange the meeting, choosing two completely
equal among the many that had been offered.

Walking the deck Ojeda saw adversaries, one in the den and one terrace on the balconies with bow,
displaying both in the face, without any modesty, traces of collision night. The band was divided
according to their opinions and feelings, leaving a group around
German and another next to the Baron.

The two were kept arrogant attitude, as actors monitor their movements, knowing that all eyes
are on them.

Nelida not remember anyone. This clash, which could have tragic consequences, had removed all of
interest to troubled girl and her insolent caprices. Ojeda saw it coming to him going to the
group formed by the Baron and his friends on the terrace of the den.

We all saw with indifference, or even turned their eyes to follow while walked away. The service
was for the hero, with the swollen cheek, recounted for the fourth
After a terrible challenge that nearly killed her rival.

When meeting Nelida Fernando spoke in haste.

Was looking for from one hour before the whole ship ... What happened to her brother's fault!
...

- When you see my dad, tell him you were staying with me until three o'clock in the dining room
and I found it at one. He will ask, but if you do not ask, tell it all modes.

Imprudent had the night before to go for it, leaving the forgotten
key in the door of his cabin.

The "goofy", or brother, eager to avenge the blows in the afternoon, had closed the door to notice
his departure, pocketing the key. Useless Nelida's pleas when, back in the morning, tried to
soften his brother calling at the door of his cabin. Pretended to
be asleep.

And she had spent the rest of the night a chair in the dining room, in darkness, invisible to
the band, who were divided back and forth with the turmoil of the recent fighting.

The servants who were on duty could testify that he had spent the night in the dining room. Simple
matter to change the hours, saying she was there long before. All ship servants smiled at her
and were ready to say what she should ask them ...

A stormy family
scene when the worthy Mr. Kasper and his wife got up and opened the
son of empty cabin door.

"Nelida spent the night outside." But it came Nelida like a beast, and had to start the "eejit"
of his hands. One bandit had taken output a short endorsed by hygienic requirements to close the
door, leaving out the cabin, compelled to wander the ship, exposed to dangers and gossip ...
all for desire to slander.

She had spent the night sitting in the dining room had witnesses: the servants who were guard. Could
still provide important testimony: Dr. Ojeda, who had found at one and a half, when he retired
to his cabin, accompanied till three. When martyred was going to end this evil? ...

The mother sided with the son, looking at her with angry eyes. It
was the shame of the family was going to kill dislikes.

"Dad ... Dad, "pleaded Nelida. And Mr. Kasper reflected as a righteous king, stroking his
beard. Caution! Had to weigh good things to be fair. The girl gave evidence, and insist he knew
only a fool in his charge, without adding any testimony. And almost ruled in advance, trying to Repelon
give the boy. "Malicious and vindictive race! Nothing good could be expected from their blood.
"

Nelida was not afraid to anger their parents, but I needed to convince them of his innocence to
cosign it with the dreaded brother who was waiting at the end of
the trip.

And yet resisted Fernando when she spoke to flee, as if you propose something crazy? No, not go
to Buenos Aires, was determined to escape the next day ... But the immediate did you really
insist on their recommendations:

- When Dad asks you, you know what to say ... And if you do not ask, talk to you. Do it, my dad,
I know goodie. There you have it near the den, talking to Mr. Perez. He is glad to see you,
says you're the best person on board.

And pushed him gently, exaggerating the gestures and glances of seduction. Ojeda, with his passivity
common to the mandate of a woman, continued the momentum, going in search of Mr. Kasper. Which
of lies and entanglements with this girl! ... Fortunately, the day of release was next, and once
on land, would see more.

Fernando smiled the patriarch, without interrupting your conversation
so with Perez.

Spoke policy, agreeing the two in a love of strong governments and the need to shoot all the enemies
of the authority. Mr. Kasper hated the republics, governments of ragamuffins with coat of
hungry talkative. The people should be governed by men Horse, with dazzling uniforms. And glad
that he had played this way at birth in Germany, overwhelmed with irony and sarcasm to the
most famous of the Republics. Never wanted to live in Paris. A nation run by lawyers and journalists!
A village without morality and almost no family! Everyone knew this ...

Fernando desirous to retain, let Perez set out to find the third snack of morning, and left alone,
was the patriarch who launched the explanation sought by Nelida.

He knew that Mr. Ojeda had accompanied the girl most of the night in the dining room. I thanked
him for his kindness. I could not have found a better companion to him, a distinguished gentleman
and serious.

Were quarrels among boys, a child genius child, which gave him much trouble. The blood of grandparents
woke Creole in his veins ... His eldest son was more balanced, but in character, there is going to
the other.

Interesting people and awesome! ... Nelida and he was calmer, Germans, genius as always.

Praise was the favorite daughter, completely forgetting the incident last night without asking
for further clarification Ojeda ridding the need to lie, saying it all, as if he were better
informed than anyone else for the sole testimony of Nelida. And accompanying their words with
such smiles, Fernando finally feel embarrassed. "This man is fool - I thought - silly as his
youngest son. "But then he looked doubtful. "Or maybe it's cool.

The biggest crook I ever met. "

Meanwhile, Mr. Kasper spent with mild praise your child to talk business of America, a theme
that persisted until the touch of noon, the group broke up, pushing people to dinner.

After lunch, many passengers, rather than remain sprawled on the seats
winter garden occupying people faults, quickly took out the coffee
and if they were in search of something important.

The desks of the rooms and the smoking room were occupied by men and women who wrote and wrote,
taking with them a lot of sealed letters with addresses on. Above their heads went rapacious
hands, taking over with a profusion of envelopes and sheets. The servants ran, not knowing how
to go to so many appeals. All asked the same thing: paper and pens.

It raised questions for travelers to beg the loan of a pen.

Improvisábanse desktops between the cups of coffee, as well as cover the tables and pianos.
All had suddenly felt the need to write. The next day came the Goethe to port, and people
awakened from his reverie blue lasted ten days. They remembered that there was the world, that
they were not alone on the planet, and had a life beyond the ocean extension with which they
would get back in touch.

The men turned away from the ladies, which had courted before. Grim and worried, looking for a corner
and biting the end of the toothpick to the statement virgin, knowing
how to resume their ideas.

Women seemed more serious and quiet, possessed of sudden asceticism. Shunned the talks, as if
they were dangerous to their virtue. Wanted being alone, and moved in this isolate his pen slowly,
hesitantly between line and line, as if afraid to say too little to say.

Isidro, who had to write to anyone - they just thought to send your child a postcard groups of blacks
to go ashore - ironically this fever graphomaniac contemplated. What of lies on paper, fake stories
to fill last-minute statements, with no transparent truth! Which of oaths of eternal memory,
when the poor memories ground had not left the luggage and they remained huddled, like garments unused,
while forgetfulness and the desire of pleasure without consequences had dominion over the ship!
... Maltrana thought that if all this avalanche of lies suddenly becomes solid, the poor would
go to fund Goethe could not resist such an enormous weight.

Among those who wrote was Ojeda. Hunched over a small table of the conservatory, was filling
sheets, as well as on the eve of the arrival in Tenerife.

But alas! his letter was now a literary and thoughtful. The memories came to interrupt his
writing, as the other time, but these memories evoked sweet melancholy, but shame and remorse.

Eleven
days had little time between the two letters. What event! ... What treachery and vile! I felt
doubts about his personality: he believed that during this time was
verified it a prodigious unfold.

He was not the same as wholeheartedly threw on paper the couple's passionate Wagnerian oaths.
'Far from one another, Who shall separate us ?...» These words made up in his memory, as evidence
of infidelity, several figures Women's: Maud, Mina, that Nelida, who was patrolling near him, who
looked out the window His face immediately beckoned insolent eyes, lips, to come out soon.

Fortunately, the proximity of the land was to dispel this voluptuous intoxication Ocean that had
kept him in friendly unconsciousness.

The memory of Teri, sleeping during the trip, reemerged stronger, higher profile, bulky exaggerated
by the light of remorse. And this remorse seemed to add a new incentive to his love. It was something
akin to sacrilege or kinship, that season some passions with the acrid scent of the forbidden
attraction and the monstrous.

Feeling uneasy conscience, Teri adored more than when he could contemplate without fear face to
face. "I love her - she thought - as I have not ever wanted. Betrayal and need to be forgiven for
giving a new love interest.

They are like hot sauces that renew the taste of a dish known ... "Ah, poor deluded Teri,
you may not find out ever of these infidelities! He would atone for their crimes more vigorously
adoring, would live in his imagination an ideal honeymoon, surrounding
it with all the splendors of a cult as the sinner who worships the
image grateful to forgive and look at you with eyes mercy.

Strengthened by such purpose, he continued to write with more fluency and ingenuity, as if
was the same man ten days before and is equal to that letter had been sent from Tenerife. But it
was the same, could be seen bound to recognize. Your sins linking to this vessel, and until we come
out of it, their efforts would be useless to return to the past.

Increasingly fleeing their eyes from the paper, they found a shadow in the window. Nelida was
that approached with a smile boldly, without fear of curious people. He coughed to indicate his
impatience, he moved his lips, I gathered them admiring the silent
words of passion "My Own ... old ... my black!

".

Useless these calls.

He continued his letter with the memory occupied by the memory Teri, but this was not prevented, by custom
or by "professional integrity", the answer with smiles and nods to
silent strokes Nelida.

Fatigue is of the immobility of Ojeda, finally away from the window, going to the ahead of the walk,
where they were Isidro and Dr. Zurita.

Watching the horizon as if waiting to see land. America! America would soon! ... The doctor talked
about this with some emotion. For days the ship finance their beloved continent, but from far
away.

Now approached him, but would not land until late at night ... And the next morning, the bay of Rio de
Janeiro.

Nelida, who had approached the two men, greeting with a nod, looked at the doctor. Very nice
old! For her, all men were friendly. Should have been in his youth a good boy. His eldest son
was also. Great pity that like both the singers of the operetta and could speak only in Paris,
as in the rest there were no women in the world.

Zurita greeted the young man with a gallant gesture old and did not deal more of it. Interesting
Girl! ... But he had his family aboard, their daughters and sisters, and wanted to avoid at all these
friendly relations that could be dangerous.

The doctor continued talking under the vague look of Nelida, who did not understand much about
the conversation of the two men.

- I guess, hey, what must have felt those Spanish to distinguish the first island ... The joy
with which Rodrigo de Triana, the sailor of Columbus, had launched the cry of "Land!".

Maltrana spoke with some pride to be able to showcase their skills before Nelida. In addition,
oratorical triumph had developed in him a strong desire to make everyone feel the authority and
the weight of his words.

- There are errors in what you say, doctor, and that's what it says
just about everyone.

Nor that first discovered the land of America was called Rodrigo de Triana, nor was a sailor Columbus.

With
such a name did not include any crew member on the first trip.

Who gave the cry of discovery was one such Rodríguez Bermejo, a native of Seville, and certainly
the admiral, speaking of him Rodrigo Rodriguez converted, and added
Triana having lived in that neighborhood.

Among seafarers was common disfigurement name-calling and the place
of birth.

In addition, Juan Rodríguez Bermejo was not seaworthy ship Santa Maria, who rode Admiral, but
of the caravel Pinta, commanded by Pinzon, who was always ahead of
Squadron to be the most sailer.

- Which was the Pinta sighted at
two o'clock, the island of Guanahani, and Rodriguez Bermejo which
gave the cry of "Land !...».

But Columbus, returning to Spain, said he was himself who at ten o'clock at night, or four hours before,
I saw a light "like a candle up and down "and that this light came from the island. We must take
into account that the Almirante was then about fourteen miles from
the island, and it is quite low, without a hill.

Impossible to see at a time when the Pinta, which was sailing far ahead, had not achieved still
to distinguish land. The light was undoubtedly that of the log Carvel Finch, who moved from the
ship of the Admiral and the island is still distant.

Isidro He paused, enjoying the curiosity of the doctor, who listened to him very closely.

- The result of all this - he continued - was a great injustice. The king had promised a prize
of ten thousand maravedíes the first to discover land, and Columbus,
who did not forgive advantage, claimed that amount, based on what
"the candle."

Finch, who could testify truth, had just died, and the poor Rodríguez Bermejo, to be unfairly
deprived by the great man, without anyone handle your complaints, felt such despair that was
passed Africa and denounced the Christian faith, becoming brown.

This was the end of the first that his eyes he saw the American land.

Dr. Zurita was thoughtful.

- By luck, che - whispered - that the civilized life of our hemisphere begins with an injustice, by
an act of favoritism, abuse of bossy.

Maltrana nodded it was. And the doctor smiled slyly, as if, after knowing this understand the history
of the New World.

XI

Stopping the liner, after many days of walking, a feeling of strangeness
seemed to move around him, from the keel to the top of the masts.

It
was shortly after sunrise, and all passengers, even the late riser,
woke about the same time, with the same shock of experiencing a sudden
difficulty in respiratory organs.

Accustomed to the gentle rocking
of the bed, the pendulum motion of the clothes hanging to uneven floor
alternative to the flow of objects on tables and chairs, as something
natural existence of this ocean, watching all felt some anxiety as
they enter around in rigid immobility. The ear, accustomed to constant
friction in the foam sides of the ship, to the thrill of the atmosphere
crossed by the momentum of the march, the distant hum of the machines
by extending the vibration of the giant walls and partitions steel
vessel, now housed in amazement this sudden silence, absolute, overwhelming,
as if the ship floating on nothing.

Guessed the presence, beyond
the skylights of the cabin, something extraordinary. The air was less
pure, salt fumes, with clouds of still water that smelled a rotting
seafood, and along with it a distant scent of wild forest.

People
ran for cover almost half dressed, and his eyes, accustomed to the
infinite blue rudely encountered with the vision of land immediate
costs covered up black forests atop glossy, a light green, as if she
had washed the rain.

On both sides of the ship alzábanse the mountains
that guard the entrance of the bay of Rio de Janeiro. Aft, the open
sea was almost hidden behind a rocky islands with lighthouses on their
summits. Against the bow, the bay was masked by the enormous progress
that seemed small capes shut off the flow.

People watched the landscape
with the ease of a long voyage discovered that after reaching an unknown
land, admiring the lush tropical forests, the original form the mountains,
each of bizarre outlines. Sketches seemed a monstrous statues strewn
along the ocean, the remains of tinkering with a gigantic hand had
been entertained to amass land and rocks. Heights were conical, slender
regulate, others evoked the image of a huge nose, a face with eyelashes,
a strong-willed chin