 Who knows how it would be at such hours ... the other!

While his wife helped him to change clothes and prepare the bed, Batiste told him what happened.
The good woman opened her eyes with a look of horror, sighed thinking
of the danger braved by her husband and anxious glances at the closed
door of the hut, as if she was leaked to the Civil Guard.

Batistet, meanwhile, with a caution early, grabbed the shotgun and
candlelight to the dried, cleaning their guns, trying to erase it
all signs of recent use, so might occur.

The night was bad for the whole family. Batiste raved in Carrion's study. He had fever, agitábase
furious, as if still run by the banks of the canal hunting the man, and screaming scared to
small and to the two women, who spent the night clear clear sitting
by the bedside, offering sugar water every moment, the only home remedy
who managed to invent.

The next day the cabin was ajar the door all morning. The wounded seemed to be better, the kids, her
eyes red from sleeplessness, remained motionless in the pen sitting
on the manure, closely following every move stupid animals locked
up there.

Teresa la vega peered through the open door, returning after next .... Batiste Many people!
All contour passing by walking towards the hut of Pimento. She looked around her, a swarm of
men ... and all with a sullen face, speaking to cries, between vigorous
hand wringing, perhaps throwing from a distance looks of hatred of
the former Barret shack.

Her husband welcomed this news with grunts. Something in the chest causing beetles deep damage. This
movement of the garden into the cabin of his enemy was evidence that
Pimento was serious.

Maybe he was going to die. I was sure that the two bullets from his gun was still in the body.

And
now, what would happen? ... "He would die in prison, like poor old Barret? ... No, he continue
the customs of the garden, the respect for justice into their own hands. It would be silent the
dying, leaving his friends, Terreròla or other, the task of avenging
him.

And Batiste did not know what to fear more, if the justice of the city or the orchard.

Began to fall afternoon, when the wounded, ignoring the protests and petitions of the two women, jumped
out of his Kamon.

He was choking, his athletic body, accustomed to fatigue, could not
withstand long hours of immobility.

The heaviness of the shoulder urging him to change position, as if that could save you from pain.

With
halting step, numb from the rest, came out of the hut, sitting under the arbor, brick in a bank.

The
evening was unpleasant, the wind blew too fresh for the season.

Purple clouds covered the sun, and under them desplomábase light, closing the horizon as a backdrop
pale gold.

Batiste looked vaguely toward the city, turning his back to the barracks Pimento now it was
clear, to be stripped the fields of harvest to the curtains concealed
before harvest.

Felt hurt at the same moment the impulse of curiosity and fear to see too; but at last he slowly turned
his eyes to the house of his opponent.

Yes, many people gathered at the door: men, women, children, the whole valley, running eager to visit
his vanquished liberator.

I should hate these people! ... Were away, and yet guessed his name ringing in every mouth. Into
the buzzing in his ears, beating in his temples burning with fever,
thought he heard the whisper of that nest threatening.

And yet, God knew that he had not done more to defend themselves,
that only wanted to keep his men without harm to anyone.

What fault had to be in conflict with a people that, as Don Joaquin's teacher, were very good,
very beasts? ...

The afternoon, the twilight hung over the valley a light gray and sad.

The wind, each stronger, brought up the block a distant echo of cries and angry voices.

Batiste saw people crowd around the door of the cabin away, and then
many arms raised with a pained expression, clenched hands that tore
the headscarf to be thrown to the ground angrily.

He felt hurt that all his blood rushed to his heart, he stopped as if paralyzed few moments, then
beat faster, throwing his face a red tide and burning.

Guess what happened over there, is what the heart said: Pimento had just died.

Batiste shivered with cold and fear was a feeling of weakness, as if suddenly abandon him forces, and
went into his cabin, not breathing normally until he saw the door bolted and the candle lit.

The
evening was gloomy. The dream was overwhelming to the family, rendered tired from waking the previous
night. Hardly had dinner, and before nine o'clock they were all in bed.

Batiste was feeling better from his wound.

The weight on the shoulder had diminished, no longer dominated fever, but now he was tormented by
a strange pain in my heart.

In the darkness of the students and still awake, he saw a figure emerge pale, indeterminate
that was gradually taking shape and colors to be Pimento as he had
seen the last days, his head bandaged and his stubborn threatening
retaliatory gesture.

Molestábale this vision, and closed his eyes to sleep. Complete darkness, the dream was taking
over it .... But the closed eyes began to populate the dense gloom of fiery points that is enlarged
by making patches of various colors, and stains, after floating whimsically
is sought, is amalgamated, and again beheld him slowly approaching
Pimento, with caution fierce a beast that fascinated his victim.

Batiste made efforts to get rid of this nightmare.

No sleep, no: I heard the snoring of his wife, lying next to him, and their children, overwhelmed
by fatigue, but the deepest ever heard, as if a mysterious force
be carried far, far away, the cabin, and he, however, remained there,
motionless, unable to move much effort trying, seeing the face of
Pimento beside hers, feeling in his face the warm breath of his enemy.

But he was not dead?

... His blunt thought to ask this question, and after many efforts he answered himself that Pimento
was dead.

Was no longer, as before, a broken head; now showed the body torn
by two wounds that Batiste could not see in what place were, but two
injuries were opening their blue lips as inexhaustible sources blood.

The two shotguns, a thing beyond dispute.

He was not the shooters that Marr.

And the ghost, wrapping his face with his fiery breath, dropped on
Batiste a look that seemed needling eyes and down and down to scratch
the insides.

- Forgive me, Pimento! - Voice groaned the injured child,
terrified by the nightmare.

Yes, should forgive him. Killed him was true, but he was the first to find him. We will: Men who are
men must be reasonable! He was to blame for everything occurred.

But the dead do not understand reasons, and the spectrum, coming as
a villain, smiling fiercely, and a jump up to bed, sitting on it,
pressing the wound shoulder with all his weight.

Batiste moaned in pain, unable to move to repel the mole. Trying to soften calling Toni, loving
family, rather than appoint by his nickname.

- Toni fas me wrong [29].

[29] - Toni, you're hurting me.

That is what I wanted the ghost hurt. Looking even slightly, with only his eyes grabbed rags and
bandages his wound, which blew up and spread. After sending its cruel nails in the tear of the
flesh and pulled the edges, making him roar:

- Ay! Alas ... "Pimento"

Forgive me!

Such was his pain that the shivers, up along his back to the head, bristling their hair shaved,
making them grow and curl up with the contraction of trouble to become
horrible tangle of snakes.

Then came a horrible thing. The ghost, grabbing his strange hair, spoke finally.

- Vine ... vine [30] - pulling it said.

[30] - Come ... see.

We drew with superhuman lightness, took him flying or swimming - he did not know with certainty
- Through a light and slippery, and so were the two rapidly, sliding in the shade, to a red
spot was marked far, far away.

The spot grew larger, had a similar way to the door of her bedroom,
and went for it Dense smoke, nauseating stench of burnt straw that
prevented him from breathing.

Should be the mouth of hell throw him there Pimento, in the great fire, whose light inflamed the
door. Fear overcame her paralysis. He gave a terrible cry, moved to end its arms, and sent a terrible
setback at Pimenta from him and his strange hair.

Her eyes open and saw no more the ghost.

He had dreamed of was no doubt a nightmare of fever, now back to being in bed with poor Teresa,
who, still dressed, snoring wearily at his side.

But no, the frenzy was still going on. What bright light illuminating his students? Still saw
the mouth of hell, which was equal to the door of your room, throwing smoke and ruddy glow. Would
you be asleep? ... He rubbed his eyes, moved his arms, sat up in bed .... No; awake and wide awake.

The
door was getting redder, the smoke was thicker.

Deaf heard creaking as cane exploding licked by flame, and even saw dance as sparks fly holding
fire to the chintz curtain that closed the room. There was a desperate bark, interminable like
a bell ringing the tocsin.

Recrystallization! ... The conviction of reality, raiding suddenly
thought him mad.

- Teresa!

Teresa! ... Amunt! [31]

[31] - Teresa! Teresa! ... Arriba!

And the first push her out of bed.

Then he ran to the boys' room, and to blows and shouts them out in his shirt, like a flock idiot
and coward who runs at the club, without knowing where. And burned the roof of your room, throwing
on the bed a bunch of sparks.

Blinded by smoke and counting the minutes as ever, Batiste the door
opened, and she went mad with terror the whole family in his underwear,
running up the road.

There, a little calmer, were counted.

All: they were all down to the poor dog, who howled mournfully watching the cabin fire.

Teresa embraced his daughter, who, forgetting the danger, trembled with shame at being in his
shirt in the middle of the garden, and sat on a bank, crammed with
the concern of embarrassment, supporting the beard on his knees and
pulling the white canvas to cover her feet.

The two small refugiábanse frightened in the arms of his older brother
and father agitábase like a madman, bellowing curses.

Recordóns! And how well do they know!

... Had set fire to the cabin for their four sides, all of it burned
at once.

Until the corral, stable and canopies, was crowned with flames.

They left him desperate neighing, crowing of terror, fierce growls,
but the hut insensitive to the cries of those who were roasted in
their guts, was throwing curves languages of fire doors and windows.

From its roof burned huge spiral elevábase white smoke, which reflects
the fire took slides of pink.

Had changed over time, the night was calm, no breeze was not blowing,
and the blue sky was only marred by the smoke plume, whose white fleece
sticking Weird stars.

Teresa struggled with her husband, who, recovered from his painful
surprise and spurred by the interest doing crazy things, I wanted
to get into the inferno.

A moment nothing else: the essentials students to take the bag of
silver, harvested.

Ah, good Teresa!

It was not necessary that contained her husband, suffering its tough pushing. A burning hut
soon the straw and reeds love fire. The roof collapsed noisily, erect roof that the neighbors
looked like an insult, and the enormous brazier rose column sparks a frightening, to whose
light seemed uncertain and hesitant gestures Orchard with fantastic
grimaces.

Corral walls trembled silently, as if stirred within them banging a legion of demons. As clusters of
fire jumped the birds, and tried to fly burning alive.

He collapsed a wall piece made of mud and sticks, and the gap came
as a black spark a fearful monster.

Smoke threw nose, shaking his mane of sparks, desperately flapping
his tail like a broom of fire, spreading the stench of burnt hair.

       It was the horse.

It went through prodigious leap over the family, galloping furiously to through the fields. Instinctively
went in search of the ditch, and fell into it with a birdie iron off.

Behind him, which a demon crawling drunk and throwing frightful groans,
came another spectrum fire, the pig, which collapsed in the countryside,
burning like a torch fat.

And only the walls remained standing and the vine, with its branches
twisted by fire and the pillars that stood out like ink sticks on
a red background.

Batistet, with the desire to save something, ran
wildly along the paths, shouting, banging the gates of the barracks
immediately, which seemed to flash with a reflection of the fire.

-
Help! Help! ... To FOC! To FOC! [32]

[32] Fire! Fire!

Their voices
were lost, raising the economic futility of the ruins and cemeteries.

His
father smiled cruelly. Name in vain. The garden was deaf to them.
Within white barracks had curious eyes peering through the cracks,
perhaps laughing mouths with a hellish joy, but not a voice say, "Here
I am!"

Bread! ... How much win! And how bad does to men!

In a hut
shone a light pale yellow, sad. Teresa, bewildered by danger wanted
to go to her aid implore, hoping that infuses the help of others,
hoping something miraculous that desire in disgrace.

Her husband
stopped her with an expression of terror. No: there. In everywhere
but there.

And as a man who has fallen so deep, so deep that you
can not feel remorse, away sight of the fire to hold in that pale
light, light candles that burn without brilliance, and fed by an atmosphere
in which they perceive even the flutter of death.

Goodbye, Pimento!
While you move out of the world served. The shack and the fortune
of the hated intruder illuminate your body better than the candles
purchased by the desolate Pepeta, yellow tears light.

Batistet returned
hopelessness of his futile run. No one answered.

The plain, silent
and grim, I said goodbye forever.

Were more alone in the midst of
a desert, the gap of hatred was a thousand times worse than Nature.
Flee from there to start a new life, feeling the hunger behind them
in hot heels leave behind him the ruin of his work and a little body
of yours, "Bishop of the poor, rotting in the bowels of the land as
the innocent victim of a relentless battle.

And all, with oriental
resignation, and sat down in the ditch, and there awaited the dawn,
imbued with the back of cold toast in front of the hearth who dyed
their faces reflections of blood, according to the passivity of doom
during the fire that was devouring all his efforts and turned them
into ashes so flimsy and tenuous as their old illusions peace and
work.

FIN

Valencia .-- October to December 1898.

LITERARY NOVEL

Best
Novel THE BEST WORKS-Director: Vicente Blasco Ibanez

* * * * *

In
addition to personally direct Blasco Ibáñez, choosing novels and consider
the translation has written an extensive preface, biographical and
critical study of the author of the work.

VOLUMES PUBLISHED

PAUL
ADAM

Clarisa year.

The herd of Clarisa.

The trust (2 volumes)