 

Roberto candle plant looked dead flowers, and reread with mortal eyes that lean thinking. He could not
mourn.

- Do you understand the meaning of these words? - Ferpierre said .-- I think it too obvious. While
he was with you, before the tribute that you surrender, to find the love you professed, was relieved
of his long oppression and thought by virtue of their new joy forget the pain, but later in
the night, reflecting a themselves about their condition, acknowledged that they could match the
passion you had to give long-awaited happiness, and if your old pain faded, this is not was
the work of joy, but quite the contrary, to a greater pain.

The sadness of this thought is indeed mortal, and she has been able
to express it in a way incisive that any writer would envy profession.

And reading it was suspected that it referred to relations with you,
and now, after what you have referred me, I really obvious.

You see, then, that the new love was not for the unfortunate lady a reason for hope, but of extreme
despair.

Candle plant had listened motionless, still holding tight in his hands
the day of the deceased and could not answer otherwise than babbling,
confused, and almost terrified:

- Do you believe?

...

- How can doubt it? You read the following pages.

While the young mind reading, the judge tried in vain to discover in his face reading effect.
Such was the alteration of the factions, so fierce eyes, dark circles
so deep, his lips had taken a painful expression of sadness that could
not and draw a tear from their eyes and draw a new wrinkle on his
face.

- You see that my inferences are confirmed yesterday by these
confessions.

His love increased the pain of that poor woman, far from comforting. Do not you ever suspected
that?

Candle plant put the book down, rested his forehead on his hand and said slowly, as if talking
to same:

- I hoped and believed that she also kept hope.

Precisely the hopes, speak one day and I said that not all had the same strength. They're
just as strong as the certainty more complete: they are lost in pain, in misery. But there
is also a distant hope, thin, fragile, which is constantly being hidden because a blow vanish:
that is the hope that never dies, nothing prevents shelter. It's told me. She nodded. And settlement
is not involved my secret idea, that for us a hope still looked like
that?

- You told me yesterday that, apparently free, the Countess
had made herself a irrevocable commitment, which was the obstacle
to his new love.

This was in fact, their feelings and in many places in this newspaper is its evidence. But scruple
strength was in it much more clearly than you thought. If not, let him hear you ...

And Ferpierre read aloud the pages of the most significant memory. The sense of confessions
seemed increasingly clear that second, the struggle of consciousness that serious. Candle plant to
show the sincerity of the narrator, still others read paragraphs,
those were described as naive impressions of the adolescent and his
wife.

Little candle plant was slowly rebuilding for the full story of that soul, as he had rebuilt
for himself, for the first reading.

- We must believe what she wrote here. If you did not say these things, if you could understand
that he did not despair, that explains humanely. Neither mind nor the heart Always keep a single
idea, in one sense, no change: the growing moral force and decreasing
time to time. In the presence of you might feel less armed Condesa
against illusions, but alone, face to face with his conscience, find
the strength again to resist