 He tried to go in hurry, but less than
he wanted, because navichuelos followed him into the ground and threatened. At last they got
rid of another ship closer to land.

Displaying the Canaries could not catch him, they play to challenge, and trageron two shots, which
fired four times against the nearest ship. The first broke up a pot of water, arrobas four
or five, the second broke the last tree on the ship and the third was a large hole in the side, killing
a man, and even missed the fourth, was very badly treated the ship.

Was anchored in the harbor another captain who was to Mexico, and he ground with 150 men: which, having
learned the robbery of the wife, sought peace between us and the city that were given D. Jorge
de Mendoza, the daughter and the maid, and having entered the master Peyne and the governor of the
island in our ship to the agreement egecutar, D. Jorge said, that
this was his wife, and her that her husband and to the point were
married with great pain and sadness the girl's father.

CHAPTER III.

Of navigation from palm to Green Island or Hesperides, which also call for Cape Verde.

Captain Don left Jorge on the ground with his wife, and repaired the
ship as he could, sail to the island of Santiago, sugeta the King
of Portugal, who obey blacks, and far from the Palma 200 leagues.

There were five days, and provide new our ship of bread, meat, water
and other food, and necessities to the sailors.

CHAPTER IV.

Of navigation from Green Island to Brazil.

They returned to join the 14 ships of any navy, and began to sail, and after two months came to an
uninhabited island six miles wide and long, distant 500 miles from
Santiago, [2] they only had birds, but so many, that we killed sticks:
we were in it three days.

There is in this sea flying fish, whales and others that are called
Schunbhut, [3] by a large circle that is about the head with that
much damage to fish with whom Fight: is big fish, a lot of strength,
and easily irritated.

There is also this sea swordfish, which have in the way to muzzle
a bone knife, saw fish, which have manner of a saw and several other
major genres.

CHAPTER V.

Del Rio called Janero.

We arrived at a certain island named after Rio Janero, where the French settled in the year of 1555
(Then and now, the King of Portugal). Far from the first 200 miles: call to his Indian Sliding.
Here were 14 days, and then our General, D. Pedro de Mendoza, being continuously sick, shriveled
and weak nerves, appointed by his lieutenant to John Osorio, [4]
his brother.

But shortly after accepting the position, was accused of rebellion
against Mendoza by which, ordered four captains, who were: Juan de
Oyola, Juan Salazar, Jorge Lujan and Lazaro Salazar, stab and kill
him to save him at the plaza, so that all might see him dead a traitor,
and published side with death, that no one gets excited because of
Osorio, because the same thing would happen to him.

In which it was conducted without good cause, because Osorio was
good, honest, strong soldier, informal, liberal and very beloved by
his peers.

CHAPTER VI.

Del Rio de la Plata or Paraná, the port of San Gabriel and Charrúas.

From here we set out to find the Rio de la Plata [5], and we reached another river, sweet, called
Paraná-wolf: far east of the mouth that falls into the sea, and is 42 miles wide. From the Rio Janero
to him there are 215 leagues. Here we arrive at the port of San Gabriel, the 14 ships anchored
in the Parana River, and because they were distant shot bullet sent
the General D. Pedro de Mendoza, saliésemos that soldiers and other
people on shore, in boats prevented this effect.

So we happily to the Rio de la Plata in 1535, and found there an
Indian village of which 2.000 had called Charrúas, which have no more
food than hunting and fishing, and walk all naked.

The women bring only thin cotton cloth from the waist to the knees.

All fled when they saw us, with their wives and children, and we were to embark sent Mendoza
to move to the other side of the river, there had not more than eight miles wide.

CHAPTER VII.

In the city of Buenos Aires and Indians Querandíes.
On this site we did a city, we call Buenos Aires, [6] as healthy
there were those who ran. We find in this land of nearly 3,000 other
Indian people called Querandíes, with their wives and children who
walk as Charrúas: they brought us meat and fish. These Querandíes
no fixed abode; roam the earth as Gypsies. When you walk in summer
(usually more than 30 leagues), but are water, or the root of thistles,
but food quenches thirst, kill the deer or the wild animal they encounter,
and drink the blood, and it did, perhaps die of thirst