 This
was a tall, very tall, thin, shaved in the manner of sailors, ie leaving the beard around the
neck like a bandage. He had more reason for it than most Sarri贸 neighbors who shaved this
way, because it belonged to the honorable body Navy, while serving as withdrawn. But in the
sea ports, particularly when the population is small, like the one in which we find ourselves,
the maritime element predominates and infiltrates so that all people, could not help it, without realizing
it, adopt certain uses, words and dress of the sailors.

It would have been handsome and gallant Lord of the Caves in their younger days, because today,
seventy-four years, is a vigorous man, erect, bright and piercing eyes, nose hawk, noble and
open front. All his energy and decision announced figure.

Standing on a seat attached to the parapet wall, with huge glasses sea ??led to the little green
light that shone intermittently yonder.

Was by far the highest figure coming out of the group of spectators.

- Don Melchor, you are here now ... I send a message to his home.

- An hour ago I came - "Monsieur de las Cuevas, separating goggles Face .-- I have seen the boat
from the balcony shortly after sunset.

- I had to guess.

How will you escape had nothing to go out there?

- I have a better
view when I was a lad of twenty years - said Don Melchor with strong
intonation and loud so I hear.

- I believe, I believe, Don Melchor.

-
A fifteen miles I turn a boat bonito.

- I believe, I believe.

-
And if you ask me a little - uttered more loudly still, - I tell the
ports to the frigates crossing for Ferrol.

- Arius, lowered a bit,
Don Melchor - said a voice.

There was suppressed laughter in the dark, because the Lord commanded respect de las Cuevas deep
crewmen.

The angry old sailor turned his head toward the spot where he had left the wisecrack. Esforz贸se
to penetrate the darkness in silence a few moments, and at length
said hoarsely

- If I knew who you are, you will soon band I lowered
into the sea.

No one dared say a word, nor was there the slightest attempt at laughter.

In Sarri贸 was known that Lord of the Caves was quite capable of doing as told. He had served
in the Navy more than forty years, always enjoying the view of brave and honorable officer, but
at the same time of a severity bordering on barbarism. When any ship commander remembered of
our ancient maritime ordinances, Don Melchor was determined to implement them and in all its rigor.
We had terror in the people who had drowned a sailor spend three times under the keel, as
prescribed by the ordinance for certain offenses; more than one hundred were crippled with
sticks or had lifted the skin with the whip. Furthermore there was not Sarri贸 pilot or sailor
could have with him the regard to sea, so in the knowledge of the time, that the maneuvers
of the vessels, in all the secrets of navigation.

The little green light was approaching slowly.

Perceived as the bulk of the Bella-Paula naked eye, and also two or three black spots near
it, which often changed site. They were the pilot boat and auxiliary boats to pull the boat when
it was necessary. As the wind just blew the corvette remained hoisted all sails. No But he was
too close to the wall for this not constitute a hazard. Al Don Melchor less well understood,
because he began to swear under his breath and restless. Unable to resist, knowing that they
had not heard, shouted:

- Grasp the topsails, Sunday. What are you waiting for?

He had scarcely uttered these words, when they were on the tops of
packages almost imperceptible to the sailors.

- Just happened! -
Don Melchor said.

- Yes, that Sunday is a fool! - Said under the
sailor whom the master of Cuevas had threatened.
