 What room or what cuartajo!
... I call him because of it used when staying in this house fine characters like you, or a
Bishop of here or there, or when a wedding in it and some days later ... until there is a trust and
is arranged so pretty in the 'lazy' in the kitchen: in winter, the fireside, and in summer
... the fresh ... Gravel!, Do not laugh because in the kitchen of my house is cold shivers
in August as left wide the two doors and the window has ... Just imagine what would happen
if we likewise tonight, and that we are still at the end of the fall! Do you see a door in the
wall left? Which is of my room sleeping there make your uncle sixty years, the rest, I say,
the first of life, to me slept in that bedroom on this side of the entrance: a lot of them with
your father, in the same bed, until, by walking on very often testerazos both under clothing on
who interfered who ... What's that permeate the entrained man! We separated, and poured him to
sleep alone in a room behind the ... Here have the table, pure oak, like banks ... Well-back ledges,
eh? ... as the edges of the table and four legs, I mean, no, that the legs are as shapely in
thread Like the cross braces that is below ... They also have some chairs tournament leaning
against the walls. In short, all kinds of rustic, but firmness and good quality, as is for people
of our size. I send the job to actively seek faith Baptism! Zanchetta, what will the moths! ...
This is the door of the room: we, the Part of respect. That's why I have given you ... Courtesy
of obligation, without the baby ... You see, just opposite my room. Do you understand? Then
pull inward.

And we went.

There now seemed more clear, not only by the double light of the lantern and candle, which burned
in burnished brass candlestick on a chest of columns of sockets and capitals of gilt bronze,
but because the room had no ceiling and exposed joists as the adjoining room, and was, like the walls,
well milled. Leaning against they had a couch, several chairs and comfortable contemporary
furniture, hung over this, a Eccehomo between two cornucopias of good sized bream, on the couch,
a Purisima and in front of these paintings, two of saints as well, all oil and frameworks gold,
but very dull now. The room had a large bedroom, and the entrance door her white curtains
on large flags contained in Roman nails. At the bottom of the bedroom, a wooden bed with high
end wall painted gilded moldings and medallions, red damask quilt and sheets with fine lace
and embroidery in the fold of the counter.

- You go to sleep - my uncle told me the lantern walking on all those luxuries - in the same
bed we have slept the Bishops of Santander and Leon ... Huh? How are you?

- It is great honor for me - I said -.

But I sleep more comfortable in it without the blanket damask and
embroidered sheets, mostly without the blanket.

- Man!

Then why do you want the good things but for occasions such as this?

I took some odd jobs to make clear to my uncle, who took my slight
resistance, which you sleep better and more carelessly than among
lace and damask, single coverage under the we use every day mere mortals.

-
Well, nothing, son - he said to me at last -: first, your taste, and
that is to be done in this house while you are there ... A good part
comes, cuartajo!

... The quilt will be and how much it interferes with her in the bedroom. Here's a doormat
for your feet ... I think no evil will come to you at bedtime, because these old chestnut soils
are cold as they themselves ... Huh? For this lacenuca, or as you llaméis "there" at the head
of the bed to put the light on top and put in ... See? this ingredient, I do not think that out the
way ... nor is it armchair in the corner ... Come here, come here to see ... As we are mortal
and no free of trouble, and the nights are so long now, and so obscure and so Carrejo cold and mostly
you do not know ... In short, do not tell you more. Well then: here hangers, with their corresponding
overall, nailed to the wall ... and in the opposite empty cupboard, which you can put a clothes
shop ... I think, pispajo! that much you bring, between him and the dresser and hangers, with leftovers
you have to fit ... For your prayers, some use it as a good Christian you are, to go to bed
and leaving her behold, at the head of Our Lord on the cross, and benditera next, with its water
corresponding ramuco bay and blessed, if you want to sprinkle around the room, because the devil
does not rest one point, and slips through the eye of a lock. Here the washstand with all the
accoutrements of cleaning ... and still plenty of room for another much more ... And with that,
I said you're at home. What you trouble, out with it, if something you want and not have it,
ask for it, which, as you have at hand, yours will be ... And now I leave you in peace and your
widths. When finished, warns that we are in the kitchen.

And he was shaking the lantern in one hand and requiring the other shelter that is slipping shoulder,
but coughing a lot and breathing very anxious.

Outdated and hurt that body death and could not resist without great losses and protests the bustle
in which he insisted the liveliness of spirit contained in it.

While busying walked in my room that I thought a lot, and not all
rosy.

The last part of my journey, night and raining, dark corridors of the house, the kitchen so
big, so dark at first, then look strange in light of the huge bonfire fur and things of my uncle,
the woman appeared suddenly gray, the dark moorland dining room, explored the dim light of lantern
four glasses clouded by scab; the silence of "outside" ... worse than silence: a distant sound
and intermittent rough, something which put fear into the valiant Don Quixote chest one night
in near Sierra Morena, and the other silent house stopped talking about My uncle had impressed me
badly. The best thing was my room table, large, without reaching for the giant, as its surrounding
and the kitchen well-stocked white furniture; but what it felt cold! And had not started the
month of November! Instinctively I touched the thickness of the clothes on my bed, and although
it was very considerable, I took the quilt red damask and put in place my heavy rug in two
folds. I felt frozen feet, and I fit fur-lined slippers, and I wrapped the body in a Russian coat
that was provided, it was determined to give me another chamuscón in the kitchen immediately.
In the room called my uncle, as well as the door between the dining room, there were other two had
to correspond to as many facades of the house. Out of curiosity I opened the little window
or "quadroon" one of the clearing leaves closest to me, and I saw everything black, very black,
through a mean to cristalejo, opened after the whole sheet, which led to a balcony stone ledges,
and even more black than I thought before that so it looked. In contrast, rumors from within perceived
distant and intermittent, since there were constant, more pronounced and closer. Should produce
the tumbling river a short distance of the house. This murmur was almost incessant roar and,
served as accompaniment annoying the patter of rain poured on the floor by the roof gutters. I
gave this "music" great sadness and closed the balcony door but hurry.

Leaving the room with the candlestick in hand, I found the gray woman busy setting the table, in the
light of a lamp of three burners, hanging from a wooden bar, subject from one end to a ceiling
joist.

It was not unpleasant, indeed, face of that servant, and well look, until there were traces
of having been beautiful in his youth. We expressed a laconic had classical overtones, and responded
welcome to the questions that I risked it, to talk about something a little brighter the dull
color of my ideas. So I knew I was called Facia, which served very young at my uncle and that
she thought he died, if that was the will of his master, whom he loved and respected as a father
and lord, and even with that not quite the great benefits paid I owed him. He and his wife
had picked up an orphan and helpless, giving it since then good education and little work,
food plentiful, and what is more important than that, love and shadow. All this I was saying as
the careless, over short periods and not looking at the face, but reflecting his true expression
of melancholy sweetness that was very interesting as he moved slowly back and forth, putting here
a dish after pass with snow-white canvas, and there a glass or fork. In this way, and throwing
the conversation I to that side, even told me that his master had always had a health 'of fierru
"until One night, a few months ago, after a week of cold deprived him not to walk the world had woken
up "ajuegándose ASEAN, with a chest jirvor, a color wax in the face, and a look of terror in
the eyes desaflegía. " He left it, but not to raise its head. "Tristezón and acobardao", as was
another man. The cough choked night, and spent in the air half of them. "Entrol malenconía"
of the darkest, and if I came not to go to his side, he is "like sighs." "This, and too" God
knew how far the car would not mired forever.

And the poor woman, her eyes misted over, was just a voice in his throat to say this. A good
door had called me to be cured of sadness!

Aggravated they had taken from my room with the spread of the facia,
I withdrew from her comfort with two formulas, which for me would
have liked me, and went straight to the kitchen.

IV

My uncle was there, sitting on the bedside chair, and left in the
bank that followed immediately, a very big parish priest, with cassock
of cloth, velvet cap worn, and hands a very severe cachavona; border
to two, with the fire between them, another character even bulkier
than the parish priest, head gray and fat, sallow face and eyes bulging
at the same bank, but a respectful distance from the subject, Chisco
wiping the mud off their legs by the fire, and beside her, and crouched
on the floor without disturb anyone, with a wooden spoon in the right
hand and left handle a pan placed on the trivet, a young man of blue
eyes, beautiful and abundant hair blonde and body well into meat.

When you get me in the kitchen, stopped the loud clamor of conversation that I had committed similar
dispute since the passage immediately, and everyone in the group is faced with me suddenly.
Descubrimerlo me then and walked a few steps to the plateau of the stove.

- Hello, hello - my uncle said to me -. And come looking for the grace of God, eh? I happy, man,
I'm glad ... Let's see, take, take it ... Well you can not because you're busy ... You, Chisco,
take it the spotlight that comes in hand ... Go - she added, looking alternately the Priest and
the big man from another bank - here you have it already: this is
my nephew Marcellus, the son My late brother Juan Antonio.

Huh? What? What to ask in print or on clothing? ... See - told me - these gentlemen come to
visit ...

Then he straightened to the question, which seemed giants, particularly the layman, who got
his head to the shoulders within the chimney, but and the priest took off his cap, and the other the
chambergazo with that covered a fraction of the white mop that is overflowing around the perimeter
of the stubborn. I was given two separate handshakes, that made me see stars, and they walked
back to sit, my prayers, and sat me also to my uncle's between him and the parish priest, he continued
the first, pointing to the second:

- Mr. Don Sabas Peñas, pastor of the town since he sang Mass ... Ago and far! because I warn
you not drop a quarter of the three drives and a half ... They are counted along well ...
Good friend, good adherence to their duties, though, and very learned in Latin of all kinds ...
and put a bullet in the heart of a bear without a pulse shake him ... Not known other vice.

The
Cure released here a laugh that echoed through the funnel of the chimney, and even mumbled
a breviary Latinos could not understand.

After my uncle said, referring to the front pew hombrazo:

- The Lord ... Men - said facing him suddenly with him - will you
let me give all your passport once, to finish first and understand
each other better?

You know that I have learned well in memory ...

The hombrazo bank shifted its growling a bit and finally said, his
voice hollow and resonant:

- In the passport you call it kind of
offends me, and always to be affixed sunlight itself: well you know.

But watch out for the jingle! because there are mouths to the same Creed of the Mass do not
sound like it is ...

- This mouth is mine, watch it!

- I say that there are those mouths, I say no more than that - said the hombrazo.

- Santo and current, but I am coming to wonder if going or not going
to know my nephew, all your passport, cuartajo!

- And I reply that
it is honor for me, can not offend me.

Beyond that you see, and no more to say.

- Well, listen, Marcelillo, which goes beyond the document: Don Pedro
Nolasco of Castañalera, was mayor of the Royal Valley in 1832, alderman
in 1800 thirty, deputy mayor in 1827, trustee in 1825, former employee
in the laundry room of Messrs. Botifora Wool and Company, outside
of the city of Valencia ... Command and control.

- You see? - Hombrazo
jumped here, with a booming voice that stunned.

Already sacastes leg! ... And the jicistes!

- What? - My uncle asked, feigning surprise, while Cure and launched bubbling laugh Latin and
I do not know what to think of everything ...

- Hey, you, young gentleman - he said to me then Don Pedro Nolasco, somewhat shaky voice -:
is the truth that I have been, and proud, all those things you've
heard ... but against the "command and control" of the auction, protest
once, twice, and two million of them.

- It appears from the papers
- said my uncle with great fortitude.

- And much has - said Don Pedro
Nolasco - but with your account and reason in groups I published at
the time, when things were a firmer step now ... Yes, sir; there was
good and at the point, but it is not where you just put it with bad
intent Did you have always ...

- That is aggrieved! - Cried my uncle
smothered by coughing.

- Of that I'm missing you I'm complaining
for no reason yo!

- I have not missed!

- I sure did!
