 Disappear, with the
armies and the laws made by the powerful, all the antagonism between the happy and the unfortunate,
all deposits and cruelties that make the earth into a prison. Only men would. And this could be
achieved as soon as the vast majority of human The immense army of misery, it knew its strength,
refusing to hold for longer the work of the tradition! ...

Salvatierra humanitarian sentimentality was flattered by this generous dream of innocence.
Change the world without blood, with a theatrical coup, using the magic wand instruction, without
such violence that repelled a gentle soul and always ending with the defeat of the unfortunate
and cruel reprisals from powerful! ...

The Maestrico still maintained their belief with a faith that illuminated her candid eyes. Ay!
If the poor know what they know who are rich ... These are strong and rule, because wisdom
is at your service. All discoveries and inventions of science fall in their hands, are for
them, just the waste coming from below. If anyone out miserable mass, rising capacity, rather than
remaining true to its origin, paying sibling support, deserted his post, turning their backs
on a hundred generations of grandparents slaves, crushed by injustice, and sold his body and
intelligence to tormentors, begging for a place among them. Ignorance was the worst servitude,
the most heinous martyrdom of the poor. But the isolated and individual instruction was useless:
it only served to be deserters, defectors, who were quick to side with the enemy. They were instructed
all at the same time: to acquire the bulk of his force knowledge, appropriate blow the great achievements
of human reason.

- Everyone! You know what I mean, Don Fernando?

All at once, shouting "We want no more trickery I do not serve for more to continue. "

And Ferdinand nods approvingly.

Yes, all at the same time, so had to be: all, shedding the skin of bestiality resigned, only
garment that tradition tended to keep on his shoulders.

But again the Gañanía sight, full of shadow and smoke, cover your eyes believed all mankind exploited
and unhappy. Some had just eat soup, with which cheating their hunger, while others stretched,
satisfied belch, believing that it added digestion nothing broken force of his life, all appeared
brutish, nasty, no will out of his condition, believing in miracles as dimly only hope, or thinking
in Christian charity to let him rest a minute in a desperate roll the costs of poverty. Much
time had to elapse before these poor people open his eyes and learn the way! Who could wake, infusing
faith that poor boy who was walking in the dark, with eyes fixed
on a distant star himself see!

...

The group of the idea, leaving the clean bowl of gazpacho and came to sit on the ground around
Salvatierra. Seriously, rolled cigars, as if this operation completely absorbed his thoughts. The
snuff was their only pleasure, and had to calculate the duration of poor pack throughout the week.
Manolo had Trebujena pannier out of your ass a tonelillo of brandy and served drinks in the center
of a circle. Came to him, eagerly sick, the old farmhands of stout parchment face and beard,
his eyes shining in the comfort of alcohol. Young drew the strip coins copper, after long hesitation,
and drinking, mentally justifying the extraordinary costs with the absurd idea that the next
day did not work. Some girls, of loose gestures, move cautiously, with passage of cats, to be
confused with groups of the boys, shrieking when they offered them a drink after numerous tweaks
and rubs brutal desire.

Listened to Juanon Salvatierra, a former comrade who worked on the
plantation had the trip to Jerez, only to see him when he arrived
the prison.

It was a huge man, stalwart, with high cheekbones, square jaw and
fiery, the tough and wiry hair invading the forehead and deep eyes
that, at times, glowed with the green glow of the cats.

He had been a gardener, but his reputation as unruly and quarrelsome, he had to devote to work
of the villages, finding only Matanzuela occupation, thanks to Rafael,
who protected him for being a friend of his godfather.

Juanon inspired respect to all Gañanía. It was an impulsive, without relapse of despair: a strong
will to be imposed on partners.

Sentences spoken slowly and Salvatierra, looking at the same time people with a pout superiority,
accompanied by frequent spitting on the floor.

- This has changed a lot, Fernando. We paatrás and the rich are more owners than ever.

Salvatierra Tuteaba to use companion and spoke with contempt for working people. The young people
and saw there: believing happy with a drink and no more thought than to endorse to colleagues.
There was nothing to look at the coolness with which they had witnessed the arrival of Salvatierra.
Many have not felt the curiosity to approach him, had even smiled ironically, as if to say: "A
liar again." To them were liars the the old newspapers they read aloud liars who spoke of the
strength of association and a possible revolt: they were only really three and two real gazpacho
of wages, and with this, some drunk from time to time and the assault of a worker, which afflicted
with the begetting of a new poor, considered themselves happy while
lasted in them the optimism of youth and strength.

If still the urge strikes, was by the noise and clutter that they brought. Of the former, there
were still many faithful to the idea, but timid spirits, fearful,
hunched in fear that they instill known the rich.

- We suffered a
lot, Fernando.

While you were over there suffering, that we have transformed.

And speaking of the reign of terror which reduced to silence all around the countryside. The rich city,
hated by the servants of the field, watched over them with a cruel and relentless gesture to
hide fear of them had. Poníanse Lords on guard at the slightest disturbance. Suffice it to comply
with some mystery some day laborers in a herd on a ranch in the countryside, so that when the rich
sounded the alarm bell in newspapers in Spain, and reach Jerez new soldiers and civil guard
run the country threatening to anyone who was not consistent with the smallness of the wages
and food poverty. La Mano Negra!

Always that ghost, enlarged by the exuberant imagination of Andalusia, which looked after the
rich keep alive and standing to move so the farmhands formulated the slightest request! ...

To sustain its injustices and traditional servitude, required the state of war, pretend that
lived between hazards, complaining of government because they are not protected enough. If the
laborers asked to be given them to eat like humans, they smoke dejasen
a cigarette more hours of sun scorching summer, they would increase
the two real a few cents, everyone was shouting from above reminding
La Mano Negra, stating that would rise.

Juanon, driven by anger, stood up. La Mano Negra! What was that? He had suffered persecution
for believing affiliated to it and certainly did not yet know what it was. For months had
been in jail with other unfortunates. We drew on the evening of closure, to hit him in the dark
solitude of the country. The questions of men uniform butts that were accompanied by crunching
their bones, that is crazy beating exacerbated with your negatives. Even in the body bore the scars
of these gifts of the rich and Jerez. I could have died without that he answers like their tormentors.
Company knew to defend the lives of day laborers and resist the abuse of masters, he was part
of them, but the Black Hand, the terrific partnership with daggers
and vendettas, not knowing a word.

As proof of his fictional existence, there was only one death, a murder in a vulgar country of
wine and blood, and the killing a few workers were killed by garrote vile, and hundreds of unhappy
as he lived in prison suffering torments that some cost them existence. But since then the masters
had to lift a scarecrow as a flag, La Mano Negra, and did not intend
the poor in the countryside the slightest movement towards their welfare,
that raised the specter gloomy dripping blood.

All authorized the grim memory. For the slightest lack a man were beaten in field, the laborer
was a suspicion against which everything was legal. The excesses of zeal authority is appreciated
and rewarded, and who dared to protest he imposed silence the memory of La Mano Negra. Chastened
young people with this sample, men had fear, and the rich back in the city, with the imagination
fortified wine from their cellars, still adding caps to his ghost, hanging ornaments new terror,
enlarging so that the very people who had been born speaking of him
as horribly Legendary happened in ancient times.

Juanon stopped, and his companions remained terrified by the specter of imagination South, which
appeared black rags covering their entire field of Jerez.

The Gañanía, after dinner, he had recovered the calm of the night. Many men slept lying on their
mats with a weary snoring, breathing at ground fumes smothering the
embers of dung.

In the background, women, sitting on the floor with skirts puffed up like mushrooms, contábanse
recounted stories or miraculous cures occurred in the mountains of the miracle of the virgin.

A elevábase bass motion in a low voice above the murmur of conversations. Roma were which continued
its extraordinary food. Capers aunt had taken from under their skirts a bottle of wine to celebrate
their good fortune in the city. The offspring came to sip on the cast, but the sight of wine
was enough to spread the joy. Capers with eyes on her mother, who was the eldest of his admiration,
sang together with muted clapping that beat all the family. The gypsy whined "their grief
and penalties "with that false sentimentality of popular song, adding
that" to hear a bird had fallen from thousands feeling the feathers,
"and the old and its people cheered and praised his grace as enthusiastically
as if they praise themselves.

Capers cut short the song to speak to his mother, with the inconsistency of the gypsy Whimsical jumping
from one thought to another.

- Mare, and what we are unlucky pobresitos gypsies!

The porridge are all kings, alcardes, Juesas and general and are not ná canis.

- Caya, Malange! Nor is carselero dengún gypsy and executioner ... Go, fool, take another.

And resumed singing and clapping with renewed vigor.

A farmhand offered a glass of brandy to Juanon, which rejected its paw.

- That's what we lost - sententiously said .-- The Cursed drinking.

And supported by the gestures of approval Maestrico, who had kept his writing accoutrements
to join the group, outlawed Juanon intoxication. I forgot those people miserable especially when
drinking. If men came to feel sometime, would not the rich more than open the doors of their
cellars to beat.

Many in the group protested Juanon words. What could a poor but drink to forget their misery?
And broke the respectful silence imposed by the presence of Salvatierra,
spoke many a time, to express their pain and anger.

The food was increasingly worse, the rich abusing their strength, that they had instilled fear
and propagated.

Only at the time of threshing were given a chickpea stew: the remainder of bread, only bread, and
in many places, priced. Exploited to their most pressing needs. Previously, to plow the land, for
every ten plows had a man stand, which occupied the site his retirement
a time to get rid of waste gazpacho.

Now, to save this alternate, given five cents a mite, on condition not to leave the team but
the stomach was the most cruel torment appeals, and this we called
them a sad irony, "selling the ... site more ignoble of the body.

Every year more farms coming to the women of the mountains. Females were submissive, the weakness
female made them fear the aerator and struggled in his work. The Manijero, recruiters, coming
down the mountain in front of their bands driven by hunger.

Described in the villages the Jerez countryside as a place of abundance, and families trust
the daughters Manijero just entered puberty, thinking, with a heartless greed in the real that would
bring collected after the working season.

The aerator of Matanzuela and some of the circle, who were Manijero
protested.

Men of which have not slept Gañanía habíanse clustered around Salvatierra.

- We are Mandaa - Aerator said .-- What we JACER, poor us? That the masters, which are sent to
us.

The old Zarandillo intervened as well, regarded as falling within
the so-called government farmhouse.

The masters! ... They could fix everything, only to remember some of the poor; to be charitable,
very charitable.

Salvatierra, who listened impassively to the words of the day laborers, stirred, breaking his
silence to hear the old man. Charity! And for what it was? To keep the poor in slavery, waiting
for the crumbs that silenced his hunger for a moment and prolonged
bondage.

The charity was selfishness masquerading as virtue, the sacrifice
of a small part of handout superfluous whim.

Charity No: Justice! To each his own!

And the revolutionary inflamed the talk: he left her smiling coldly;
brillábanle the blue eyes behind the glasses, the fire of rebellion.

The charity had done nothing to dignify man. Nineteenth centuries led to reign; was sung by poets
such as divine inspiration, the happy extolled as the greatest virtues, and the world was
like the day she first appeared with doctrine of Christ. The experience was long enough to appreciate
its usefulness.

It was the most impotent and anemic virtues. Had words of love for the slave, but did not break
his chains, gave a loaf to slave modern, but the child did not dare criticism against the social
organization that was condemned to misery for the rest of his life.

The charity, supporting the needy for a moment to take forces, was so virtuous as the peasant
who feeds birds in his yard and keeps it primed, to devouring time.

Nothing had done this under pale to free the men.

It was the rebellion, protest desperate, he had broken the bonds of the old servant, which would
emancipate the employee modern, flattered with all kinds of rights ideals, except the right bread.

Salvatierra,
in the exaltation of his mind, he wanted to squeeze all the ghosts with which had terrified
and entertained for centuries to the needy, not to hinder the happy calm of the privileged.

Social justice could only save men, and Justice was not in heaven, lived on earth.

Over a thousand years had resigned themselves pariahs, with thought
put into the sky, hoping in an eternal compensation.

But the sky was empty. What was unfortunate and believe in him? God had gone to the rich, appreciated
as a virtue worthy of eternal glory, the that now and then dividing
it between a piece of his fortune, while retaining full and reputed
as a crime of welfare claims below.

Although the sky existed, the unfortunate would refuse to enter it as a place of injustice and
gets the same privilege where you spend your life suffering, he who
lives in wealth distracting their boredom with the voluptuousness
of the charity.

Christianity was a lie, distorted and exploited by those above to justify and sanctify his usurpation.
Justice, not Charity!

Welfare on the unhappy land and that the rich should be reserved, if desired, the possession of heaven,
opening the hand drop their earthly plunder!

Les Miserables could not expect anything from above. Above their heads there was only one infinite
insensitive to human despair: another world that ignored the miserable lives of millions of
worms on this area dishonored by selfishness and violence.

The hungry, which had a thirst for justice, should only rely on themselves.

Top, if only to die! Others come back, which would spread the seed germinating in the furrows
fertilized blood. Standing and moving the horde of misery, not God but the rebellion, lighting
the way the red star, the eternal hell of religions, indispensable guide for all the great movements
of humanity! ...

The group of laborers listened in silence to the revolutionary. Many followed his opening words
eyes wide as if to absorb the view.

Trebujena Juanon and nodding their head movements.

They had read so confused Salvatierra said, but they moved it's mouth
as a vibrant music of passion.

The old Zarandillo not afraid to break the atmosphere of enthusiasm,
speaking with his sense practical.

- Too it is fine, Don Fernando.

But the poor need to live pa land and the land is Masters.

Salvatierra stood proudly.

The land was not anyone. What men had created to appropriate it as his work? The land belonged
to those who worked it.
The unfair distribution of wealth, increasing poverty with increasing
civilization; the powerful taking advantage of all the mechanical
inventions, designed to suppress body work and only served to make
it heavier and brutalizing; all evil of humanity come from the appropriation
of land by a few thousand men they sow not yet collected, while millions
of people make abortion down their treasures of life suffering a hunger
for centuries.

Salvatierra's voice echoed in the silence of the Gañanía
as a battle cry.

- The world is beginning to awaken from their dream
of thousands of years, protests have been stolen in its infancy. The
land is yours: no one has created and belongs to everyone. If it exists
some improvement, your work is of black hands, who are your titles.
Man is born with the right to breathe air, the sun heats it, and should
take possession land that sustains him. Cultivate the soil for another
pick the harvest belong to you but you, miserable, debased by thousands
of years of bondage, doubt of your right hand forward fearing lest
you believe thieves. Which captures a piece of land, by excluding
others, which delivers it to the human beasts to do so occur while
he remains idle, that's the really robs his fellows.

IV

The two
mastiffs that guarded at night around the tower Marchamalo ceased
to doze under the arcades of the house of wineries, with the body
in a circle, supporting in the tail ferocious jaws.

Irguiéronse both
at the same time, sniffed the space and balance after a certain hesitation,
roared, throwing down with a vineyard that was overwhelming urge to
jump land between their legs.

They were animals almost wild, fiery
eyes and red mouth bristling with teeth that gave cold. The two jumped
on a man who walked bent by between strains outside the slope on the
straight path leading from the road to the tower