 Nor do I know him myself but by mere inference. I I asked her
to dance for a chance to insult and avenge a wrong which meant someone had done for my sake.

-
Who did the wrong?

- Did not say. Only he shouted that I was to blame for it to look separate from his wife.

- He must be mad or drunk.

- Drunk nay, rather crazy. It was scary. He also told me that I saw when I was crawling, that
knew who was my mother and I knew my father as his hands.

- Mal
could meet your parents, Leonardo noted sententious air, even though
you daughter of the Cradle.

Nonsense!

- Ah!

Listen, said Cecilia recalls, said his wife was the one who raised me, that I was mulatto and
my mother lived and was crazy.

- Did not found out what it was called the devil in black?

- Yes, it was revealed at last. The officer recognized the tailoring of Uribe. He called by
name Dionisio Gamboa, although he claimed not to be called that, but Dionisio Jaruco.

- Ah! Dog! Leonardo said, clenching his fists while the teeth. What good Novena deserve! It
will take, as there is a God in heaven, as you capture. A good Tonda already on his trail. There is
no such Dionisio Jaruco or pumpkin.

His name itself is Dionysus but his name must be Gamboa, because it belongs to mom. The most unworthy,
ungrateful, infamous theft of Dad's old clothes added the flight and left my mother without
a cook. A black no you have agreed to house more shameless than him. And see the result. The
pay. Is hidden under seven ground states, hence it will draw. Be punished and deserves, I swear.
I think skin him alive if you should not pay.

Then dare to insult you ...!

Carried away by anger, took some time to understand that Leonardo was scared Cecilia with such unwelcome
threats, as well as themselves ridiculous in their eyes, as it warned without effort the wrath
of her lover against the black no offense came from both her inferred
as having left the family without a cook.

Retracing his steps, but Later, the boy said:

- But all these, what have you had to do with the separation of Dionysius
of his wife?

Nothing, absolutely nothing.

I doubt you were born when mom licked Mary Rule, women Dionysus, as outrageous and lawless in
La Tinaja.

And if you were born, How could raising you? She really raised my sister Adela. Come on, is a folly,
a mistake hers, a pretext to vent you could not return the insult.

- To do this, Cecilia said with satisfaction, that cost him dearly
mess with me.

At the exit Dancing José Dolores waited at the corner of Broad Street.

They fought with knives and black fell at the first shots ...

- Dead?

Leonardo said, not expecting such a conclusion.

- I think not.

The fell on the floor complaining much.

Does it hurt to you that he had been punished as soon as needed?

-
No, no, Gamboa was quick to correct the lack of gallantry which had
committed manifest feeling for the wound of his slave.

It does not hurt to lose a black.

We have many. Feel yes you've been through. It was a scandal.

You complicated in a murder!

More talking another thing, what your grandmother doctor attended
in his illness?

- Montes de Oca.

- How did he come to heal?

- I
went for it.

- Did you know?

- In view.

- Do you know your grandmother?

-
She does.

Mother went to see him at his house and he came to see her every
month.

- To cure?

- No. Mammy had almost never been sick a doctor.

-
What were brought dares or take them?

- Mother received an allowance
through the Montes de Oca.

- An allowance!

Now I remember that long ago took Montes de Oca Dad rent Rule same
Mary, the wife of a cook, to raise a child, the illegitimate daughter
of a friend yours.

And here deciphered why the mistake of Dionysus. Sure, it figured so you're the girl. Of course,
you were not, but who takes the very beast of the error? Neither had been born then. For you see,
after that María Adela Rule raised by about two years. What I can tell you is that the raising
cost him much distress to mother. Montes de Oca agreed to pay two ounces of gold to dad for
the rental price of Mary Rule. I suspect never served because he is a bad payer. Hallo, therefore,
strange, incomprehensible, Montes de Oca you pass an allowance Vds. Do you not know its origin?

-
I do not understand, "replied Cecilia doubtful.

- I mean, "said Leonardo, if you know the reason, reason, or whatever,
the why he spent the counter to your grandmother.

- I do not know,
or rather, since I have not ever find out.

- You know and do not
want to tell me.

I read in your eyes.

- Mal reader you then.

- I deny standing tiptoe Montes de Oca passed the counter on their
own.

- I also deny.

- Ah!

See? You know and I negabas.

- Vd.

I asked that. You asked me if I knew the origin or reason for the
allowance, and I'm still fasting.

All I know is that Montes de Oca was spent on behalf of a friend
...

- That you know.

No? Leonardo interrupted.

- In sight, said Cecilia half.

Your name.

- Ay! That is left for the curious reader.

- Say it, say, he urged the young man taking his hand.

Not want to know out of curiosity, but for something that'll tell
you later.

- Vd. known as their hands.

- Who, then?

- His father
you

- My father!

Leonardo said amazed at the revelation.

Is it possible that my father carried pertinacity ....!

(He caught himself and added then:) Are you sure?

- Surefire.

- How long have you known him?

- Ugh! Since I was little.

- How do you know?

- You saw it on the streets. Each time he stumbled. When I least expected it overhead. He would
brave and told me many things: he was made a Mataperros, lost, badly
brought up, and was going to make me catch on the soldiers.

- Did
you know his name then?

- No, not know until much later when I had
become a woman.

Me has not been his friendship with another mommy.

From Corpus to San Juan, used to talk through the window, always me.

- What's it say?

- Not good indeed. He said, for example, that I celled from you, do not let me go to dance with
you, that you were very much in love, that sooner or later you would leave me on the other; in short,
that you had to marry a rich girl and only waiting to be received Bachelor of Laws.

- I'm surprised to hear that from my father.

Not believe it if someone else tell me. What object really takes
you in it?

His conduct away the idea you love. Not in love from you, no. Nor was he a man of love to go
gay. Now I'm disappointed ...

- Is that mommy was also opposed to our relationship. At the time of his death sent me that you
did not want to

- You think not obey, is not it?

"Said the young man passionately.

- It's too late, "Cecilia answered blushing. (Then he added quietly:) God forbid I even disobeying
mommy.

- Never weigh you down, "said Gamboa heat, I swear by the most sacred,
dear me well.

I, meanwhile, that none of what you have said explains the mess of
the counter.

Why Why, a saint of what my father passed it to your grandmother?

I see what you encalabrinar and despair. You may not continue pasándotela you ...

- That I think, quite affected Cecilia said.

- That's not the worst, added the young thinking, but the doctor will charge a cure the patient.
Everyone does a dead wood.

- For that part I am quiet. Throughout the mummy disease, instead of asking me was the doctor gave
me money for expenses.

- How much you gave?

- How to fifteen ounces of gold. I took no account ... José Dolores.

- Dale with José Dolores. There would again hear his name in your mouth.

- What do you have?

Interrumpiose maybe the lengthy dialogue of the lovers by the arrival
of Nemesia with biggest upset of the three.

Cecilia, because it was submerged in the sea of ??confusion about
their fate, do had thrown the sudden death of his grandmother.

In disgust Leonardo, because after I found out about Cecilia's position
in that house, realized that he must remove it as soon as possible
or risk losing them forever, and there was no had time to settle with
their agreement the new plan of life.

For its part Nemesia also experienced a lively distaste for without further argument or evidence
the presence there of the dreaded rival of his brother, when he believed
more distant and forgotten Cecilia, he was convinced that no jealousy
in it, nor the absence in it, had acted the miracle of trocar into
hatred, even indifference, the deep affection he professed both.

Poor José Dolores! Nemesia cried together. Of leak.

Fool us flattered that we were hoping he would stay on the mountain!

- It is God's son, who should not be yours Celia, Nemesia said with great feeling, to brother
when he returned from the tailor.

- What covers you give me bad
news, he asked his brother alarmed.

- I founded that he has returned.

The cap on this morning as two inseparable.

- Where?

- In this room. All alone ...

- Then he went to the field to get married.

- Marry! Maybe she has married and now goes back to the beloved.

- What! Do you think you are out of here soon?

- At least ... To put home.

- At least not said Jose Dolores irritated
at best.

- No. If intended for dear, the sooner the better leads,
because I first left spitting in the face to play the role of cover.

     Not the man to pass me the weed and
      laugh me. Do not stand in my way.
      Where is she?

         

- Dressing in there. That is what we expected tonight.

- Maybe. So be good to me stand aside for now. A tragedy would cause more Despite her than
him.

- Still not all is lost, Jose Dolores, Nemesia said thoughtfully. While life lasts, there is
hope.

- What hope, sister? Either he or me. The two together do not fit. Can I resign I serve not cover?
I think not, Nene.

- Nonsense, José Dolores Wolf even a hair. Who can truly say that is the first in the heart of
a woman? Naiden. Please be known that she is not firm or law. He says one thing now and then
another. It doubles as star apple leaf: català red, Catalan white. If you had heard of when
he went to the mountain behind the white girl ... would know who she is .-- quedré not in my
life! He will never see my face. Although I kneel, though I kiss your feet, do not forgive
him that made me. Do not laugh at me nor the sun of men. Hastily,
him did not end for me.

There are many, I was not needed. How many, how many boys as good
as he would not be saints, with a stone in his chest such that I want?

I will not be of those who remain on the shelf or caring nephews. I swear the first thing I
say hi, tell já. And we'll see who loses most, if he or me.

CHAPTER V

Which excuse the rod, like bad his son, and he who loves him, with corrects many rods.

Proverbs, XIV, v. 24

Had unexpectedly reached the moment to plan the plan devised by Don Candido before his departure
to the field.

Signaled the death of Cecilia Josefa had thrown into the arms of Leonardo, which he knew his father
was not as simple nor as virtuous missed an opportunity that presented itself taking by mistress,
pretending to protect.

Don Candido this event looked almost like a catastrophe, whose only means of avoiding, where
concept was to remove the light Cecilia and Leonardo trade, even for achieve necessary use of
force. But I thought that maybe I could run the same thing without noise or liability as it would
give a legal appearance. Moved by this idea happy, decided to counsel with the attorney and Mayor Don
Fernando O'Reilly, a friend and classmate Leonardo, with whom he was quite friendly.

While walking in the street address of the Uffizi, mentally composing
a speech regular form of dialogue to make their case in the best and
most plausible light, before Mr. Mayor.

It happened, however, that in the presence of His Lordship were you
mind the species, which frightened the pigeon pigeons, and only managed
to say that: - Valdes coaxed his son Leonardo, seduced him with her
wiles, and not let him go law school and wanted to know what remedy
could bring justice to a scandal.

Oyola the mayor with a smile of satisfaction and marked condescension, and said:

- How happy I am, Don Candido, to hear him! I am delighted, surprised! Did not have my attention
and please, if from that preside in this court of justice, sovereign
disposition, has more than one year, the first thing you are complaining
about him in like that?

Not that occur in Havana similar cases, no; occur thousands, is that these are the ignorance
and relaxation of morals, which only attacks are criminal offenses against life and property,
those that are still immediate harm to the person or neighbor's goods.

The attacks on morality, honesty, morality, to religion, these are
not crimes, are mere misdemeanors, venial sins, lapses that have no
penalty specified in any written code.

What a mistake, Don Candido!

What confusion of ideas about what is good and what is bad, what
is honest and what is dishonest, which is permissible and what is
forbidden, which is laudable and what is reprehensible!

'Saco, in his Report on Vagrancy, just to reward the Patriotic Society, attributes the game,
he calls our idle men den, the corruption school youth the tomb of the family fortunes, the
source of most evil of crimes that plague the society in which we live.

"I differ with so authorized opinion, and I think it recognizes two main causes evils we all
complain, namely: ignorance and government policy Vives. No schools. And what are the results? The
frequent robberies in daylight, murder without cause or provocation,
endless litigation, the glaring injustice, prostitution of women,
social disorder.

Government policy Vives also cause corruption term or by mistake
without parallel in the world.

Prisoners rot in jail and not punishes the big offenders.

Nor is ascertained only rarely the source of crimes more egregious, because if you catch any
wrongdoers. Who has killed Tonda?

- What! Don Candido said, interrupting the Mayor. Have Tonda dead?

- Yesterday afternoon I opened the belly with a knife.

- Do you have
VS [57] the details of the unfortunate event?

- No, sir.

Last night he told me the news in the theater, out of court.

It says only that the killer was a black fugitive who tried to arrest him.

- I have reason to suspect that the murderer was my cook.

I ordered last days Tonda woman to capture ...

- There would be nothing strange, "continued the Mayor. If you turn on, if doubtful these times,
I take the liberty to give you some advice: give the slave the noxa ...

- What's what Don Fernando?

- A la noxa, I say.

- We are. But who is this lady?

- Natural is not what you know, since he has not studied law.

It is understood in the right hand the slave to the noxa, the act
of renunciation of direct control over it is the master for the court
that tried for the crime committed or damage.

You lost, of So a black man as more and much better in a good sale 500 pesos, but saves you
the costs and the costs of prosecution, which usually ride twice that sum, if the master is part
of the trial.

It is known that failure will spread the hand to the headman court,
raises a summary black against the defendant.

Then you need to do the same with the clerk to attest, with the official of causes that sometimes
provides its own pace, with the prosecutor accuses and not work for
nothing with the judge, counsel, and so forth.

- Suits me, Don Fernando?

Not in my days. It would be better hanging from a lamppost.

- Makes you well ... But back to the claim ... You said you?

- Said, Mr. Mayor, Don Candido said that if from a dream, a girl brings
Leonardo crazy my son, he seduces and enchants with his craft and
not let him finish his studies lawyer ...

- We split, O'Reilly said
calmly.

What do you call the seductive?

- Cecilia Valdés, the complainant replied shyly.

- Well. What breed of woman is that?

- I do not understand.

- I mean, young or middle aged?

"Married or single? "Pretty or ugly? "White or color? All this is to force us to know prior
to the graduation of both fault and the penalty that justice will fit.

- VS I will say, Mr. Mayor, with loyalty as I know in particular, Gamboa said hesitantly and
with his ears burning with embarrassment. The girl is young, quite young, barely will have 18 years
of age. It has not been married, nor, as I understand it, can be described of ugly, rather
pretty, real girl, I'd say. Is poor, yes, poor, poor, and color pass for white but wherever you
do not know their history ...

- Okay, well, "said the mayor thought. It is known to you aware of
case.

I so love. And we judge with full knowledge ... It only happens a vacuum, call it questions,
namely: you know the facts stated, by itself or by reference to third person?

- Some I know for myself, others say, by inference.

- Understand each other. First, tell you if you know who lives with her.

- Now, suppose that a friend of hers.

- None of assumptions, Don
Candido.

Do you know of you? Yes or no?

- No, sir, I know, I infer.

- I like that. In this kind of openness is business first. The lawyer and the judge must speak as
he spoke to his confessor, his heart in his hand. And soon, with whom Pardito lived?

- With the grandmother.

- Are your parents living? Do you have relatives, close friends, protectors in short, someone
to do for it? Being so pretty, like you said, it is good to know all that, find out in time.

-
Little has killed the grandmother.

The mother (added stammering and redder than ever), the mother ... Really do not know at this
time if he lives or dies. Anyway, it would be worth nothing he lived. As the father ... she
would not have known ... She is the daughter of the Royal Creche. Is VS?

- Okay. Did you know you person's grandmother?

- Yes, sir, I met her, but never had intimate relationship with her. Would refer over and alien
this place go into detail. I know, however, that women of color (it was brown) led an exemplary
life, who practiced virtue, who confessed and received Holy Communion
often who raised her granddaughter in the fear of God, who was watching
closely, and especially not spoiled her frolic, or processions lads
flirted with window.

- Then the girl in question is well-bred, honest
living and has not yet say.

- That is true, only that as a hybrid
race, do not much trust in her virtue. Is mulatto and we know that
the daughter of cat kills mice, and that goats do jumps, jump the
breast.

- Well said. We confess that our sayings contain large pool
of wisdom. Confess also that our mulatto, generally speaking, are
fragile by nature and desire, innate in human creatures, to promote
or improve the condition. And here's the key to decipher the reason
for his fondness for white and his disdain for the men of his own
race. A well I talk to someone who should understand me. Nobody like
you, for his long residence in the country, has already aplatanado,
have had better opportunities to observe the idiosyncrasies of our
free color class. But a general rule, a strong presumption theory,
however plausible it may seem bright on the nature thereof or hobbies
or these other people, is not done, do not report crime, even quasi-crime,
which is what Penan laws and judge and punish the courts.

"Let's
summarize. You appear before me, the Mayor, on complaint against whom
he accuses Valdés You quasi crime of seduction and distraction inflicted
on his eldest son from you, which is even under parental authority.
Therefore asks you throw a warrant of arrest against seductive, and,
without hearing, it is punished by depriving them of their freedom.
Okay. Up here no apparent irregularity, the complaint is well founded
in law and you will have excellent not to consent to a hussy astray,
and pervert his son, much more when you follow a career so honorable
and noble as that of the toga. I applaud the vigilance and severity
of principles that you maintained.

- VS confuses me, "said Don Candido,
happy with the lap, apparently took his claim. I do not deserve such
praise. Ca! I do not deserve for a hundred leagues.

- But (seriously
continued the Mayor) as a judge right and conscience, I claim the
evidence crime, I hope that the actor make good the charge, interrogated
for background and consequences of the defendant, and far from causing
a summary conviction, I get the brightest acquittal statement. Let
me you, Don Candido, to tell you frankly that the I characterized
it yourself, no doubt led the innate love of truth and justice, pay
the defendant's conduct, enforce praise of his character, and vindicates
all complaint or ill fame; atándome hands, of course, to proceed in
justice.

Don Candido overwhelmed by the unexpected departure of the
judge, for a long period not he managed to say a word, just squeezed
his fingers and nodded. Then he said aloud timid and confused:

-
For my mother, Mr. Mayor, that I never thought the thing was so serious.
Go if it is! Well I was not fooled! Medium to medium. And there was
only supposed to come but and kissing. Or is that VS does not matter
where it takes more burning, as if it were, to end spear? Not sure,
I think nothing else, Don Fernando.

- While there is always a serious
thing (the mayor said with his usual equanimity), throwing warrant
of arrest against any individual who is suspected of having committed
only one crime is not what stops me in this case, I stopped that yourself
with his frank statement, I removed the handle that could dip to proceed
with the appearances of legality