 

The natives had savido Bonbon, according to this count, the rout of Xauxa, and how had Huancas been
[165] up, and suspecting that the victors wanted to move on, agreed to be summoned, because tomasen
not neglected, and putting their wives and children to the ranch they could in a lake that is near
it [166], waiting for it to happen. Masters the Inca, as things settled hobieron Valley Xauxa came
out and walked up Bonbon, and as they entered the lagoon, they are not doing any further damage
that could eat them the maintenance; and as it were, went ahead and draw nigh to him of Tarama, to where
they found the natives gun positions, and hobieron battle in which they were imprisoned and killed
many of the Taramentinos, Cuzco and the winners were from, and as I dejasen in the king's will,
[that] you serve and pay tribute as did many other provinces, and that would be well treated
and favored, did everything I was commanded, and relationship to Cuzco envióse all had been done
in this town of Tarama.

The Indians Chance, as the Indians who left their province Andaguaylas with Captain Ancoallo
hobiesen great deeds done in these wars, jealous of them and set with rancor against the captain
who had Ancoallo more ago, when the Cuzco was fenced determined to kill them, and thus, was
summoned, and as were many together with his captain understand the intentions they had, and put into
a weapon, fought [the] Cuzco and even killed some, could the other, with the help and effort
Ancoallo of (well) out of there, which complained to their gods from the evil of the apricots,
and ingratitude, stating that, by not more or follow, it would go with his family in voluntary
exile; and throwing women before, walked and walked through the provinces of Chachapoyas and
Huanuco, and through the Andes mountain, walked through those mountains until they came, according
to also say, to a large lagoon, which I think must be what they tell Dorado, whither made their
villages and multiplied many people. And the Indians have great things that land and the captain
Ancoallo.

The captains of the Inca, after what has been eScript, turned the valley Xauxa where already had
great close friend, and many women present to bring to Cuzco, and do the same did Tarama those. The
new all went to Cuzco, and as it was known by the Inca, rejoiced by good fortune of their masters,
though he signs [of] him what they had done heavy with Ancoallo. But it was, it is believed,
industry, because some say that by his command did their masters. And Tupac and other Chancas
UASC hobiesen gone to make war to the province of Collao and hobiesen been no victory of some
people, suspicious of the Inca that new known what had happened to Ancoallo would turn against
him and would do treason, sent messengers to them then they should come to him, and commanded,
on pain of death, none warned of the past.

The Chancas, as were the order of the Inca, then came to Cuzco, and as they arrived, the Inca
with great dissimulation spoke lovingly, concealing the evil that was used to Ancoallo captain,
and gave his words heavy dello Habell samples. The Chancas, as understood, did not fail to feel
the shame, but, seeing how few of them were to be met, passed through it, asking leave to Inca Yupanqui
to return to his province, and being so granted, were split, giving privilege to be principal
lord could sit in the Duho [167] engastonado in gold, and other pre-eminence.

And understood the Inca temple Curicancha acrescentar with great riches, as is already eScript.
And like everywhere Cuzco had many provinces, gave some to this temple and sent to the posts, and
they speak a language all their own Sudit, which were made the highways, and mitimaes, and other
things invented the king, who said he understood Many of the stars and has had the sun's movement,
and so took him by nickname Inca Yupanqui, which is the account name and a lot of understanding. And
as is so powerful Notwithstanding that in Cuzco had large buildings and royal palaces, he ordered
three enclosures of wall Excellency and coordinates the work of memory, and such Paresce today,
so that anyone will not praise the building and learn to be great ingenuity of the teachers who
invented it. Each Near this is more than three hundred steps to a Pucamarca call, and the other
Hatun Court, and the third Cassana [168], and is of excellent and fantastic stone as per level,
not disproportion is a thing, and so well settled and so stuck stones, which can not even
see the joint in them. " They are so strong and so whole the most outstanding buildings, if not
apart, as have many others, will live many ages.

WITH THESE fences or walls within rooms and others had used Quellos, where they were number of
virgins and many women and concubines of the kings, and spun and wove of your so fine clothes,
and had many pieces of gold and silver and vessels these metals. Many I saw stones WITH THESE
WITH THESE some fences, and it frightens me how, being so large, were as first place .-- When
they made the big dances and parties in Cuzco, was made much of its chicha for those women
and bebíanla .-- And as so many parties to come to Cuzco, sent to providers to not come out
without his permission no gold or silver than entered, and stood by the mesmos governors over
the kingdom, and ruled them all with great justice and order. And because this time he ordered
the fortress of Cuzco, say something Dell, as it is right.

The city of Cuzco is built on valley slopes and hills, as written in the first Part of this history
[169], and the buildings mesmos out a thick-walled forms, in where they do their fields, and
Salian beat each other, which parescian fences, so everything was desto platforms, stronger than
towards the city, although it is his nature site, and so I chose the Lords della between so
much land. And as we were doing powerful command of the kings, and Inca Yupanqui had such great
thoughts, not attaching that he had been both enlightened and enriched the temple of the sun, called
Curicancha, é hobiese made other large buildings, determined that they should do another house
of the sun which surpasses the building to what was done there, and that she verifications all things
that might have, gold and silver, precious stones, fine clothing, weapons of all that they used,
ammunition war, sandals, shields, feathers, animal skins and bird, cocaine, bags of wool, mill
jewelry genres, in conclusion, had everything that they could be news. And this work was begun
so proud, that if the monarchy lasted until today, was not finished.

Mandóse that would come from the provinces said twenty thousand men, and that people necessary
provisions to send him, and if any adolescent, taking his place another, became his nature, but these
Indians resided in work but always limited time and coming others, Salian them, where they
felt little work. They broke the four mill desto rocks and stones taken out, the six mill were bringing
the large ropes of Leather and hemp [170], the others were digging the trench and opening the
ground, going some short wooden columns and beams for the woodwork. And to be at his pleasure,
these people made their accommodation each moiety itself beside where he had to make the building
.-- Today day seem most of the walls of the houses had walked about suppliers watching .-- were made,
and great teachers and a lot of delicacy, and so, on a hill which is on the part of North of
the city, on top of it, little more than a musket shot, was produced this natural force that
called Casa del Sol, and our named La Fortaleza.

Cavos in living rock for the foundation and build the foundation, which became so strong that
last as long as hobiere world. Had, in my view, three hundred and thirty feet long, and two
hundred wide. Had many fences so strong that not enough artillery to and to break them. The front
door was to see how premium was and how concerted the walls to one did not leave the bar to
the other, and fencing in these rocks are so large and magnificent, which tires the trial to
consider how they could bring and place and who was enough to labrallas because between them
are so few tools. WITH THESE Some stones are wide and twelve feet and longer than twenty, and
other thicker than an ox, and all so delicately settled, which between them can not get a real
.-- I went to see this building twice: one Tomas Vazquez was with me, conqueror, and other
Hernando de Guzman, who was found in the circle [171] and Juan de la Playa [172], and believe that this
leyerdes, not anything I tell you what I saw. And andándolo noticing, I saw this fortress beside
a stone than average and had two hundred and seventy spans of round mine, and so high that
parescia who was born there, and all Indians say they are tired of this stone in that place, and
could not move more than there [173], and some, if not to find itself being carved, I do not
believe, though more me affirm that enough to force the men to put there, where will be a witness
what were the inventors of great work, as they have already wrecked Spanish and stopped that, which
I did not want to see the great fault of those who have ruled in allowed, and a notable thing
is hobiese disrupted and broken down, without looking at the times and events that may come
and it was better to have it standing and keep [174].

There were many rooms in this force, one above the other, small, and others between soil large,
and hacíanse two buckets, one larger than another, wide and well taken, I do not know how
expensive, according to cousins ??and the stones are so well made and carved, and underneath
ground say there are more buildings. And they have other things that do not write, for not having
as true. Was commenced to make this force in time of Inca Yupanqui, styled much your child
Tupac Inca, Huayna Capac and Huascar, and even now is something to see, it was much more without comparison.
When the Spanish entered Cuzco, the Indians took great treasure della Quizquiz, Spanish and
still found [175] one, and he believes there is more della radius of one or the other. What's
this fortress and has been serious Guarco just send preserving [176] memorial to the greatness of this
land and even to take them two such forces, as so easily to find them is made. And I will
come back to the subject.

As these Indians have no letters or tell her things but memory is Dellas old age and their songs
and quipos, I say this, because many things vary, saying some one and some another, and not
enough human trial to him he could write eScript, but take desto said what they claimed to be more
true, for counting. This points to the Spanish quest in Peru who claim to know many secrets
dest, I understand that I knew and understand what they think they know and understand and much more,
and all agreed that written what they see, and that I spent working
on it than themselves.

And so, say the big ears, that being things Inca Yupanqui in this state, determined out of Cuzco
with many people from war to what he called Collao and its regions, and thus, leaving his governor
in the city, went out of it and walked until he reached the great people of Ayavire, where they
say, not the natives of wanting to come into compliance, had cautiously and, taking them neglected,
killed all his neighbors, men and women, with do the same Copacopa those of [177] and of slaughter
of Ayavire was therefore all the more perished, but were not some who later were astonished to
see so great wickedness as crazy angry about the fields, he called his older with great howling
and words fearful [178]. And as the Inca hobiese fallen into the invention so gallant and
profitable mitimaes put, as he saw the beautiful valleys and Ayavire campaigns and the beautiful
river that passes by him [179], ordered them to come of the districts were enough people with
women to populate it, and so it was done, and it made for great buildings and temples of the
sun, and many tanks and casting house, so that, mitimaes village, was more Ayavire principal
before, and the Indians who have been wars and cruelty of the Spanish
mitimaes are all strangers and unnatural, so has eScript.

Without this feature again, that having gone through his command some people enough to captains
give Andesuyo war against those who are the towns and quests in the mountains, ran Snakes as
big as a thick wood, which killed all they could, therefore, who have not seen other enemies,
the war made them so artfully that came within the many who entered, and I have received great anger
the Inca to know that new, and being with their grief, a sorceress said she would go and stop
silly and tame snakes aforementioned, that they should not do evil to none but them same they
sit down. Appreciating the work, if accordance with that, he sent him to put an execution, and
did, by believing them and set no to me, because it seems fun, and
charmed snakes, were the enemies, and subjective many war and others
for prayer and good words that they had.

The Inca left Ayavire, say by the way they call Omasuyo, which for him width was made real as we
see it, and walked through the towns of Oruro [180], Asillo, Azangaro where he had some encounters
with the natives, but such words were said, that with them and gave them gifts, attracted
to his friendship and service, and from then on used for Pulici wearing
the others who had friendship and alliance with the Incas, and made
their concluded in the plain people of the plains.

Passing on Inca Yupanqui, have to visit the most towns bordering the Great Lake Titicaca, whose
very quick, brought all his service, getting in each suit people who used the natural thing of
great pleasure for them and that most loose. Entered into the great lake of Titicaca and the
islands looked in it are made by sending making them the largest sun temple and palaces for himself
and his descendants, and made in his Lordship, and all the rest of the vast region of Collao,
returned to the city of Cuzco with great triumph, to where he had, after it came in large parties
to make their custom, and most provinces came to him with great reverence,
present, and the governors and his delegates had great care to fulfill
all his orders.

CAP. LIII .-- How the left Cuzco Inca Yupanqui, and what he did.

Flying Inca Yupanqui fame in such a way over land, which was everywhere of his great deeds. Many, seeing
their flag or captain, he came to know and provide him vassals, affirming his sayings that
the sky had fallen their past, they knew live with both concert and honor. Inca Yupanqui, without
losing its gravity, I replied meekly did not want to do wrong to any nation, but they should
come and give him obedience, as the sun wanted and ordered. And hobiese around to make people call,
came out with all to what they call it Condesuyo and subject to the Yanaguaras and to the Chumbivilcas,
and some Desta provinces had stout Condesuyo region of battles, but, although he gave much
war their efforts and knowledge was therefore damage and death that many gave obedience, taking
by Lord, as did the others, and put in order, leaving the earth and made chiefs the natives,
and commanding that they should not insult or damage to these subjects, it became Cuzco, placing
first governors in the main parties, to impose on the the natural order that had to have, and
for housing to serve you and make their people together, and take
every great concert, and no one was injured, although were of the
poorest.

After this, have more, rested a few days in Cuzco, because he wanted to go in person to the Andes,
where they had sent their champions who would look and listen for the land and let you know
Art della they were the inhabitants, and as his orders were filled throughout the kingdom maintenance
of tanks, sent Quél that would provide the road had to carry, E was done so, and with the captains
and warriors left Cuzco, where he left the governor to for the administration of justice, and
through the mountains and snowy mountains, he knew his runners at the front, and the great wilderness
of the mountains, and even were the as large snakes breeding in these
thickets, did not hurt none, espantábanse to see how monstrous beasts
and they were.

As the natives of those districts were able to enter its land of the Inca, as many of them by
the hand of their masters had been put in service, we came to do the mocha, bringing present
in many bird feathers and coca and as they had in their earth, and very grateful to all. Other
Indians who lived in those mountains subjects who wanted to be, They
sent messengers, no, deserted villages and metiéronse with their wives
in the thick of the mountain.

Inca Yupanqui had great news that after a few days, to the Levant, had large and densely populated
land.

With this new, greedy to find out, he went on, but, being advised as in Cuzco had happened a stir,
and having friends and they a people Marcapata call, stirred it with great haste to Cuzco,
where he spent a few days.

After these, the Indians say, that as the province of Collao is so great and she had in those
days large number of people and dominions of the powerful natural as Inca Yupanqui knew they
had entered the mountains of the Andes, believing that there would
be dead or would come undone, concertáronse all at once, from Vilcanota
forward, to one side and to another, with very great secrecy, rebels
and not be under the lordship of the Incas, saying it was all big
smallness, their parents having been free and not leaving them in
captivity, secured much land and so great a Lord alone