 The noblest ideas are corrupted when passing through the sieve
of vulgarity, the generous aspirations were poisoned with sediments of misery.

The degraded by exploitation, on waking, looked into the doctrines
redemptive revenge the past and being selfish, even at the cost of
their peers.

Revolutionary seed had been planted in the outcasts of the church, sleeping in a two centuries
ago. Believed to contribute to the future revolution forming men, and upon awakening his dream
was with common criminals. What a terrible disappointment! Their ideas only had helped to destroy.
Removing those sleepy brain's prejudices ignorance, superstition, the servant, had only managed
to make bold evil. Selfishness was the only passion vibrating in them. They had only learned that they
were miserable and should not be. The fate of his companions in misfortune, a great part of
humanity, miserable and sad, not interested. Leaving them in their state, improving their situation
was as it were, had little concern that the world continue as before, that the tears Pain and hunger
reigned down to ensure the comfort of the above. Sowed them their thoughts, wanting to speed up the harvest
and crops as forced and artificial grow with amazing rapidity to give but corrupt fruit, the
result of propaganda was the moral rot. Men, at last, everyone! The human beast looking their
welfare at the expense of such, perpetuate the confusion and pain for others so to enjoy the
wealth over a lifetime of about forty years! Ah, where to find to be more refined by the cult of
reason, doing good without hope of reward, sacrificing everything for human solidarity, the man-god
who embellish the future ...?

- Anda, Gabriel - still the bell-ringer - not waste time!

It's about a moment, and then to fly!

- No - Luna said firmly, out of his reverie - you will not do that, you should not do it! It
is a theft that propose to me, and my pain is great for seeing that count on me. Others go by instinct
fatal theft or corruption of soul you come to it because you I wanted
to illustrate, because I tried to open your minds to the truth ...
Oh, it's horrible ... very horrible!

- But why such a fuss, Gabriel?

Is not that a piece of wood? Who disservice seizing their jewelry? Do not rob the rich and those
who have something? Why do not we to imitate?

- For this very reason: because what you are trying to do is an imitation of evil, because it
perpetuates a Again, the system of violence and disorder, because of poverty. Why do you hate
the rich, if he does by exploiting the poor is the same as you going to do, plundering of thing
"for you" (understand it well), "for you" and not for everyone? I'm not afraid of theft, because
no I believe in the property or the sanctity of things, but because of this appropriation abominate
particular and I oppose it. What seizes want that? You say that to overcome your misery. Not
true: to be rich to enter the privileged group, to be three more of the minority individuals
who enjoy being hateful enslaving human. If all the poor of Toledo now call the doors of the
cathedral, rebels and raging, I would open way, would guide myself, I would point those jewels
that ambicionáis, I would say: "Seize them." They are drops of sweat and blood of their ancestors, represent
slave labor in the Lord's land, the brutal dispossession of the king's tax collector for magnates
and kings that precious stones could cover the idol that could open the doors of sky. That does
not belong to you three because you may be bolder, it belongs to all, as all the riches of the
earth. Men put his hand on that exists in the world is the holy book, the revolution of the
future redemption, now grab a few of that under the moral imperative is not yours, it is a crime
for law bourgeois and for me is an attack against the underprivileged, sole owners of the
existing ...

- Hush, Gabriel! - Ringer said harshly -. If I leave, talk till dawn. I do not understand, do
not want. We come to you a favor, and we go out with a sermon