 

ANOTHER important consequences.

[89.] I'll finally get to the final result, remarkable for the transcendental, and it seems worthy
of careful consideration by those who are marching against their
physical studies and metaphysical.

Here it is.

The existence of universal gravitation, is apparent.

Proof. Universal gravitation is a law of nature that some bodies are directed towards others (as
we ignore now). This address is metaphysically necessary assuming
that where there is no body away.

Because in this case, there can be two separate bodies: the law of contiguity, is a metaphysical
necessity, and therefore continuing the approach of bodies to others, is a perennial obedience to this
need.

The speed of the approach is on account of the speed with which separates the middle. The speed
limit of this movement is the relationship of space, with an indivisible instant: we can imagine
if God suddenly overwhelmed with the intermediate body.

As solid masses we roll over our heads, they would be submerged if so in a fluid, if its nature, lends
much to change position, it appears that The stars have to be subject
to the law of approximation, because the interval that separates constantly
removed in several directions.

If we were to assume entirely because this fluid still, Cesaria metaphysical necessity of the
approach.

[90.] This theory seems to lead to explain the mechanism of the universe
by simple laws of geometry, by removing what is called hidden qualities
first, and then strength.

While there is no difficulty in explaining metaphysical ideas and
the very fact of geometric gravitation, since it means only the tendency
to approach the bodies, the there, and very large, in determining
this order of ideas the conditions to which it is subjected gravitation.

[91.]

If the movement of approximation depend only on the average, to mixed media would follow inequality
of motion. And how is it calculated, how to graduate this inequality, in non- subject to our observation?

[92.]
Over this difficulty, there is another even more serious, namely, that the bodies would move in
a medium, would have no fixed addresses, but these vary with the variety the direction of the
medium.

If the gravitation of the body A to body B, depends only motion with his medium is removed,
the gravitation will not be at line AB, but follow the undulations described by the media. What
is against experience.

[93.] From these considerations, that even when born naturally gravitation the same position of
the bodies, this need not produce the order, if the results it were
not subjected to certain laws.

And so the phenomena of nature, but somehow rooted in a need, assuming the existence and position
of bodies, would of itself as contingent on the application and development of that need.

[94.]
Deepening but this matter is found that the tendency to approximate, even alleged necessary, would not
be enough to generate the movement, nor to keep him. In Indeed, whenever a body is withdrawn,
it would be necessary for another to follow him to not interrupt contiguity, but as being all
full, there would be no reason for any body depart from the other, there would not cause any
movement. It can be inferred that geometrical ideas are not sufficient to explain the origin
of the movement, but it is necessary find its cause elsewhere. If contiguity is a metaphysical
necessity, presume existence of bodies, will continue to move the body in a sense to anyone
also have to move the adjacent, B, C, but if we assume that the contiguity already exists there
is no reason why the A begins to move, then there is also no reason
to no movement in the B, C.

At any instant, though of course the
movement, or the full contiguity exist; since the state of the matter
is that this condition never fails as metaphysically necessary; then
there will never be razen for the movement to continue, because in
every moment imaginable no reason to continue.

Body movement to drag the body B, this C, and so on. If the movement of the body A has no other
origin than the need of continuing with B, nor that of C may have another origin, but their contiguity
with B; if the movement is done only to not interrupt, it follows that it exists as long as absolutely
necessary, there is no reason for the movement begins, started or last.

[95.] The laws of nature can not therefore be explained by geometric and metaphysical ideas,
even assuming that the approach is an intrinsic need bodies. In any Of course it is necessary
to look beyond the material that you print a higher cause, rectify and keep moving.

CHAPTER XV.

ILLUSION OF FIXED POINTS IN SPACE.

[96.] No space being anything other than the extension of the body
itself, and therefore not existing space where there are no bodies,
it follows that this extension we think differently of them, with
fixed dimensions to fixed points, still itself, and all receptacle
that moves, is a pure illusion, to which nothing corresponds in reality.

To

clarify this doctrine, and drop at the same time some difficulties
against it offered, it is necessary to analyze the idea of ??fixity
that we have with respect to space.

As in the world we still have some points with respect to which we conceive directions, is
engendered in our minds the idea of ??fixity of these points, and relationship to them, and because
of them, we imagine the fixity, immobility, as one of the properties which distinguish the
ideal receptacle surnamed space.

The four cardinal points the world, east, west, north and south, have had to naturally begin producing
this idea of ??fixity. However it will be difficult to show that there is no fixity, and that
the idea it is a pure illusion.

[97.] Let us begin by destroying the fixity of East and West. First, assuming to land a diurnal motion
of rotation about its axis as it currently represent astronomers and points east and west, far
from fixed, constantly changing for all places on earth. So assuming an observer at A, point of
land, the east is the point B, and C. West Point If the earth rotates on its axis, the east
and west of the observer correspond successively to the m, n, p,
q, etc., in the confines we imagine as the sky.

Then, assuming the fixed roof, the east and the West does not mean anything fixed.

If denied the motion of rotation of the earth, the appearance would be the same as if in fact
the rotation exist, and therefore can never say more, but the fixity is an appearance. Furthermore,
if the earth and sky quietly in rotation, yet is more impossible to pinpoint the fixed points of
east and west, because in that case, the same items that were referring to heaven, would be
in constant motion.

I repeat: all these are mere appearances, the man who knows nothing about the sphericity of
earth, and imagine it as a plane, if you walk from west to east, believe that the two points
remain stationary, however, that change ceaselessly imagines that leaves the back always to
the place from which it came, however, that in having travel the circumference of the earth, will
meet again on it.

[98.] The north and south seem to offer more difficulty on account of its fixity as for us;
but neither will be difficult to state that there is nothing absolute in that fixity, and
that the most one can say is that there is a seeming fixity. N and S are the north and south
poles.

If we imagine rotating at the same time the earth and the sky from south to north, it is clear that
the fixity NS points will not exist, and yet the observer to believe that everything remains
fixed because the skins will look quite the same.

To an observer walking towards a center of Ecuador, the continually rising on the horizon for
another that stays in one place, the pole is still.

Even for a spot of land, change the height of the pole, the angle
variation formed by the plane of the ecliptic to the plane of Ecuador;
variation that according to some, is 48 "per century, and according
to others, 0", 521 per year, giving 52, 1 "per century.

[99.] It follows from these observations that in the situation of
bodies there is nothing absolute, everything is relative, that a body
can exist alone, but then there is the situation, because it is a
purely relative concept, and no relationship when there is no point
of comparison; absolutely speaking, there is no up or down, and imagine
that even if these points as fixed, that imagination is but the comparison
we make between two points, being below that which gravitate towards,
and above, the opposite, as seen in the antipodes, which call down,
what we up and up, which we down.

[100.] Without points at which the direction relates, it is impossible to address. Then address
the existence of bodies, things are purely ideal, then a horn only, not the would have, out
of its own extension.

[101.] Against this explanation is a difficulty at first sight very
serious, but actually worth very little.

If there is one body, "may God give you moving? Deny it, seems a limitation of the omnipotence
grant, is to destroy all that is said against other space bodies.

This difficulty derives its apparent severity of a confusion of ideas, understood no effect
While the state of the art. To release me ask to whom the proposed: Does the movement that
it is intrinsically impossible, or not. If so, there's no harm in saying God can not do, because
that omnipotence does not extend to things contradictory if I say
it's not impossible, so we go to questions about the nature of space,
and must consider whether the reasons for this failure has been tested,
are true or not.

Issues relating to the omnipotence, not of this place, its resolution is a simple corollary
of the main resolution. If it proves impossible, to say that not may the almighty, is not limiting,
and is not limited when it says it can not make a triangle is a circle. If the impossibility
is not shown, then, does not enter for all the question of omnipotence.

[102.] The argument based on the existence of vacuum, nor destroy the established doctrine. Physicists
generally recognized, and he is supposed necessary to explain the movement, condensation,
rarefaction, and other phenomena of nature. This will answer the following.

1. ยบ Descartes and Leibnitz, are votes on both experimental physics
transcendental and yet did not admit empty.

2. ยบ The observation can not enter in any part of the existence of
vacuum, and because the spread, take up space so tiny that do not
reach any instrument, or because observation can only be exercised
about what affects our senses, and to this perhaps Some bodies do
not reach their excessive thinness.

3. No. Nothing can solve some of the amendments intimate matter, the movement and the condensation
and rarefaction, without knowing the elements of which it is composed.

4.

No. Just as not well understood and the infinite divisibility, or the composition of a large
with unextended points, not surprisingly, does not understand the
phenomena that appear inconsistent with the negation of the void.

5. ยบ The existence of the void is a metaphysical question, which is
outside the regions of experience, and therefore does not affect the
system of the sciences of observation.

[103.] Using the idea of ??space include the extension in abstract or generalized reconcile
all that it appears to us necessary, absolute, infinite, with its objective reality. This is
actually the extension of things, the need, infinity, are not the things themselves but in the abstract
idea. The objects themselves are tight to the sphere of reality, and therefore the limitation, to
the contingency objectivity understand the abstract idea of ??what exists and what is possible,
and therefore has no limits nor is it subject to any contingency.

CHAPTER XVI.

OBSERVATIONS ON THE OPINION OF KANT.

[104.] We have seen that the extension seen in us, leaving the boundaries of sensations, is a
true idea is based on some feelings, and is at the same time a pure idea. As regards the feeling
is like the foundation of our faculties sensitive, as idea, is the
root of the geometry.

This distinction is important, and we will then be used to assess the true value the opinion of
Kant on space.

[105.] More or less, all our feelings are linked with the extension, rather than considering the feeling
a priori, independently of any habit, and completely isolated, it appears that only those of sight
and touch, are necessarily linked with an extended object. A living without any of these two
senses, it seems you should be deprived of receiving impressions ear, and smell, perhaps not the
taste, because if it is true that feelings palate are always attached
the touch, as hard, soft, warm, cold etc. ETC. is also true that these
feelings are entirely different from that of taste, and we have no
no reason to ensure that they can not be separated.

[106.] The extension, taken us on your intuition or it may be regarded as a necessary condition of
our sensory faculties, Kant saw this truth, but the exaggerated when he denies the space an
objective reality, asserting that it is merely a subjective condition a priori so that they
received the impressions: the form of phenomena, that is, appearances, but nothing in reality.
I said that space, as distinct from bodies, is nothing but the object of the idea of ??space
is the same extension of the body; or rather, this extension is the
foundation from which we get the general idea of ??space, and she
his turn, is also included in the general idea.

[107.] Say as Kant, that space is the form in which the phenomena before us, and that is a subjective
condition necessary for the perception of them is tantamount to saying that phenomena, presenting
as extensive, require that the spirit is able to perceive extension,
what is very true, but nothing explains the nature of the idea of
space or another, either in its object