 Gave
him a lot in a tone that was cold.

The two friends, after a few minutes, he understood perfectly. Pepa, always affecting ease, flattered
in every way possible to her friend, as beautiful, as rich and elegant. Clementina was left flatter,
breathed with delight that whiff of incense.

Instead promised to lose a penny of their capital Pepa.

They descended the stairs caught by the waist, chattering like magpies. Arriving at the door the
room, before releasing it gave a tight and loving kiss.

Neither thought that what had linked arms were not his own but those
of a corpse, the corpse a holy and generous lady.

VIII

# Dinner Fornos. #

Leaving the hotel de Osorio, Pepe and Ramon Castro got into the waiting sedan the first and moved
to Fornos. I had trouble getting rid of Cobo Ramirez, I smelt some dinner and wanted to be in the
game. Ramón Castro gave a nudge to express I would not be happy in it. This, whom no board
of shameless character firstborn of House-Ramirez did his best to get rid of deception.

The terror of husbands was in a foul mood. The real or feigned indifference Clementina had shown
him all night gnawing the heart. Prudentísimos had always been in society, especially in husband's
house, but never lacked time, until then, the lady with an intense look, with some palabrilla
fleeting, to express his love. And it rained wet, because several days ago and found that the detached,
distracted, stinging was alive. Castro was not in love with the wife of Osorio. He was incapable
of love. But he had a special idea of ??their skills conqueror and, therefore, a love own exaggerated.
Furthermore, we know that Clementina was for him, not only love the turtle, but the raven who brought
him support in his beak. Wrapped in fur coat and sprawled in the
corner of the car, not opened his mouth the whole way.

Was one. The cold night and clear, a night of Madrid, in which the
environment produces tickle the eyes and nose.

Ramon, also given to his melancholy, with her handkerchief wiped
the window glass to immerse the eye in the empty streets and the sky
filled with stars.

When they arrived they saw the car Fornos of Amparo, waiting.

- We arrived a little late.

We will tear your eyes that aunt - said Castro rushing to enter.

A waiter told them upstairs in the cabinet on the left, I waited three
women and two gentlemen.

Before he gave up the arrangements for the dinner he had ordered.

In the cabinet, scattered chairs, were Rafael Alcantara, Manolito
Dávalos, the Nati the Relief and Amparo, who went and were greeted
with whistles.

All five came from the Real: made it about half an hour waiting.

- That little shame you, son! - Amparo said with a frown beautiful -.

Y fewer still take seriously your treats.

- Girl, I figured I'd come out later than Real.

- That!

Say you were at home at my stepdaughter, and then you have some excuse.

Under-jokingly used to call his stepdaughter to Clementina.

- What
stepdaughter, stepmother or what! - Cried the fop with a gesture of
bad humor -.

If you think that no woman that I hold myself when I do not want!

Spite, incubated overnight, breaking the shell strongly now.

- Olé
my child!

So men talk - said the Nati, a Lavapies he discovered Chulilla cloth,
not only in conversation, but also in the hairstyle, gait, everything.

-
How simple you are, baby! - Amparo said, turning to her -.

Do you imagine that this is right?

Clementina will have a more submissive puppy wool. If he wants, makes her lick the soles of
your feet.

      
      - Yes, the same as you his dad! - Castro responded angrily - You,
apparently, you have come to appear that I am an infantry cadet?

Then you'll see what I care for that Mrs. ....

- Really? - Asked Alcantara.

- Really, I'm bored now.

Castro, preventing a future break with his mistress, was preparing
a soft bed to his reputation seductive to suffer no damage.

- I enfadáis
me - continued - because I'm late .... What about Leon?

Where is Leo?

- Leon, here it is - he uttered a loud voice behind.

Leon himself and walked to the middle of the room and began to parody, with expression and
mimicry of strolling players, a well-known zarzuela:

I am the one count of Agreda called in battle that proved his worth countless.

- Hey, baby - Relief said tugging at the skirts of his coat - I have have to adjust an account.

- You too - he exclaimed with horror hit -. Heavens! Where I will
get that I submit accounts?

And got carried away, feigning shock at the corner for his beloved, who asked quietly

- Say, babieca, why have not told me it was under Part? Do not you
know that we policy a few days ago?

- Bah!

Bah! - Cried loudly and away -.

As you may have a few glasses of sherry in the body, they will hear
the kisses that you perceive, from the street.

"Socorro was shortened biting her lip. He feared that Amparo had noticed anything. Y Indeed,
the mistress of Salabert had cast a suspicious glare which spoke,
and frowned: "Go, go!

A good portion went to recaditos!

As picasen a little was able to grab by the hair to that Panfila and beat against the wall! "

The
Relief was a blonde lymphatic pearly complexion and light eyes, a little romance and a lot susceptible.
They said a commander's daughter and grabbed the right to despise
their fellow born from within the populace.

It was more educated than them because I read all the brochures that
came to hand: he took care not to say bad words, not phrases not often
used Flemish.

I had some older than the Amparo and Nati.

- At the table, the table - said Alcántara -.

These German operas excite me hungry as a wolf.

Everyone got up from his seat and approached the table while he rang
the bell Castro to alert the waiter.

The Count of Agreda stopped them with a gesture.

- Gentlemen, here are two princesses who have fought for diplomatic
issues that we do not incumbent.

Do you think that will give a kiss before we sit down?

- To give it: to give it - cried the three men and Nati, looking at
the Relief and Protection.

This was faced angry with Leon.

- Ja, ja!

... Girl, do not start now to release because it's going to hurt us dinner.

The Relief was made irrelevant by inspecting the table.

- That kiss - again said the choir.

- Listen, precious, do we have brought to laugh at us or give us for dinner? - Said Amparo increasingly
irritated.

Castro tried to calm her.

- There is no reason to be angry, Amparo. Leon, as I and everyone
else, we would like that we sit down to dinner we were good friends.

If there is some resentment must be remembered, especially if, as
hypothesized, it was not for anything serious.

- That kiss! - Cried
harder diners.

There was no choice. , And Alcantara Castro seized the Amparo, Ramon
and the count of Relief and were approaching almost by force, but
not both protests, especially Amparo, who defended vigorously.

After ended by laughing.

- But this is stupid! What fly has stung you?

And he came to decision to Socorro, gave him a resounding kiss on the cheek.

- Besémonos, daughter, otherwise I fear that these guys nice to give them a nervous breakdown.

Relief paid the kiss with another more timid, reserved and cautious
manifest.

- Well, now let me warm up a bit, I'm numb - said sitting
beside the fireplace so close that, miraculously, it burned.

It is roasted in front and behind, in such a way that, when Raphael was to take the seat, burned.

-
What an atrocity! Look, guys, how he left the chair Amparo.

All laid hands on her and admired.

- How will the woman's body! Let's see - said Castro toward her.

- Hey, boy, stop! I'm not look at me and touches me .... Well, if you blow the back - added generously.

And
one after another placing the palm on the back of that beautiful animal that indeed, almost
burned.

- Now you will see how I compose with anchovies - said sitting -. Because I guess you've remembered
me - he said looking up at Pepe Castro.

This gave a nod and gently pushed Manolito Dávalos to sit at beside
his former mistress.

It was curious to see the strange confusion that gripped the Marquis
touched when he got near the Amparo.

This woman was fascinated in such a way that showed confusing flushed, not knowing what to
say or do.

Colleagues, who knew, surreptitiously mirábanle and sending smiles and winks at the young, which
adopted a continent protective, maternal, with him. He laughed like the rest of this strange
and furious passion, but deep felt flattered by it.

Rafael Alcantara, who had pinched all the dishes of appetizers, and cried again

- Gentlemen, please come by God that dinner, because I'll catch a surfeit of olives.

Acomodáronse all at last. Two waiters began serving dishes. Amparo spurned the consommé; but when
they brought some steaks Macédoine boeuf was filled so that the plate friends began to laugh and
be elbow.

- Ah! "You think I'm a girl singing consumptive of La Stella confident? ... You'll see, now!

Rafael took the conversation to the Duke of Requena, Amparo but cut the jokes.

- Come on, let him alone. As payment, the poor have fun as you can.

Although everyone knew he had enslaved the multimillionaire, did not
like being laughed at at their expense.

The Duke went to his daughter. Rafael had terrible details, disgusting. Women savaged her revenge
on her beauty, elegance and pride.

Castro, instead of coming to the defense, contented himself with quietly smile and say with negligence:

-
Do not know what you say!

That smile, that superior tone and dismissive, no doubt wanted to mean it was ridiculous talk
about the internals of Clementine in his presence. They stood on the tablecloth honor of another
portion of ladies and gentlemen.

Between glass and glass of Burgundy, between bite and taste of salmon
with mayonnaise were all perfectly arranged.

Manolito no plywood in conversation. Feel happy with Amparo suit rubbing against your legs,
throwing occasionally looks intense passionate desire, come to serve with application coward slave,
was pressed at times over the odds against his idol, seized with
rage passion.

When this happened, the idol had been placed under the table and
cruel heels pinches him again right.

Beyond this was friendly with him, treated him as a child, gave him
the plate snacks she ate and I was holding his beard pampering with
the fingertips.

But the poor, before finishing dinner, found himself overcome by
a fit of coughing, he turned red, I wanted to take, with great efforts
of his body, something that had not out.

That something was nothing less than a string of railway rails to
the mad Marquis he felt like he had inside the body.

Others, who knew of this hallucination, smiling with an expression of pity and derision. Rafael
Alcantara said cynically:

- Dale, dale, which is lizard!

Manolo poor turned to him, sweaty, power, and said with an accent
of reproach:

- If you'll feel like me, do not laugh, Rafael.

- You're
right, you're right! - Amparo exclaimed indignantly - .Vaya a joke,
make fun of sick friend.

To compensate for that offense helped him sit on a couch, he wiped
sweat his handkerchief and gave him a few kisses.

Then he came to sit down again and continued eating it he put forward.

Was the turn of the anchovies prepared specifically for her.

Was one of the plebeian tastes remained.

Many swallowed, which excited the admiration and laughter diners.

Socorro said, however, so low to his beloved, "it was disgusting
to see eat.

"believed in good taste suffer from dyspepsia and eating little. Amparo soaked with snacks
so many formidable sip of burgundy, always leaving the glass shaking.

      He ate and drank
      as a laborer in wedding
      day, and flaunted it.

Ramon was not ready to experience the joys of animal nutrition.

Said I had taken home Osorio chocolate, but it was not true.

What had taken was poison gifts to his friend, Count de Agreda, a
tribute by over an hour to Hope.

- Hey, ugly, why do not you eat?
- Amparo said, suddenly turning towards him -.

Is it true Calderon that the girl ignores you?

I congratulate you, son, it must have herpetic humor.

Maldonado,
who was surly and with it from the phrase of the evening, was put
on. Barely contained in a hoarse voice said:

- I warn you seriously
is that you not return to take care of me in front of that girl ....

Amparo
stared at him defiantly.

- Why, rich mine?

- Because women like
you can not talk about certain things without desecrate - said shaking
Councilman cholera.

- Ja, ja! Open balconies, kids, because this
guy is hot - he said with sarcastic laugh; and infuriating all at
once: - Look, kid, do not give me fibs! You are a mamarrachillo and
she a sack of pus. Do you hear it?

The noble face of Ramon broke
down on hearing these heavy words. His whole body trembled with rage.
It is not known how barbaric and insane not to hold him had been made
Castro by the sleeve of his coat, saying:

- Leave it, man. Can not
you see that already has too much alcohol in your head?

Castro was
on the other side of the Nati. Without knowing why, because he had
never been sympathetic, gave him all night and woo serve quietly.
When you put a little cheerful, Alcantara told was on the other side:

-
With your permission, Rafael, I'll give a kiss Nati.

And they gave
without waiting for an answer.

Rafael did not damn the case. Shortly
after he returned to say:

- Do you allow, Rafael?

And bam! fit him
another kiss. The little joke seemed so well that not five minutes
passed without the repetition. Nati found it delicious, he laughed,
showing her cheek to her lips the beautiful wild. Rafael, at first,
also found it funny and seriously responded the question of his friend:

-
You got it. Penis, you have it.

But after seeming was heavy, and
really jokes and concluded by saying:

- Enough, Pepe, do not abuse
the physical.

At dessert, the waiter told them that a gentleman who
was dining in a cabinet next to a lady drank a glass of champagne
to your health.

- Who is this gentleman? Did you know?

The waiter
smiled discreetly.

- I was forbidden to speak its name.

- Are you
a friend?

- Yes, my lord, is a friend.

- Well here goes - "Leon
said.

And left the room. A few moments later re-entered with Alvaro
Luna and his beloved the Conchillas. I did a standing ovation. Rafael
went ahead with the cup in his hand and sang:

- Died Alvarito, May
he rest in glory; DRINK ME a drink to his memory. 

Occurrence was
funny because he had fought Alvaro afternoon. Pepe Castro embraced
him.

- We knew you had gone well. Have you played the Colonel?

-
Yes, on one arm.

- How was that?

- You'll see ....

And he told
the details of the set