 Serious gentlemen of the court had been pale and babbling like a child to logarithms
and trigonometric formulas. He ask him about case studies and skill of skipper, accustomed to all
the dangers of the sea, he would respond with the aplomb of a sage.

In difficult moments - days of storms, low winding, treacherous coast neighborhood - Ferragut
only decided to rest when Toni is replaced on the bridge. With him there was no fear of inadvertently
enter the wave that sweeps through the roof and off the machines, or that the invisible obstacle
Stone nailed his tusk in the belly of the ship. Still standing the helmsman the direction indicated,
motionless and silent, as if asleep standing up, but at the moment brief appropriate dropped the
word of command.

Meat was lean, with the thinness of the Mediterranean annealed bronze. The salt wind over the
years had tanned his face with deep lines furrowing. Coloration Whimsical black was the bottom
of these cracks, while the part exposed to the sun seemed washed by light, with lighter shades.
The short beard and stretched by hard grooves and lomas of the skin. Besides, he had hair in his ears,
hair in the nostrils, broad and upturned, ready to tremble at times of anger or admiration ...
But this ugliness decreased in the light of their small eyes, with pupils between green and oily,
eyes watching sweetly, with canine expression of resignation, when
the captain made fun of their beliefs.

Toni was a "man of ideas." Ferragut knew him only four or five, but hard, crystallized, unshakable
as molluscs, attached to the rock, eventually becoming an outgrowth stone. Had acquired in twenty-five
years of coasting the Mediterranean, reading all newspapers lyrical radicalism met him at the
ports. In addition, the final of his travels was Marseille, and one of its streets a red room adorned
with columns symbolic, where he was to sailors of all races and all
languages, understood fraternally by signs and words mysterious rituals.

When

entering a port in South America after a long absence, admired Rapid advances in the shantytowns:
huge docks built in one year, endless streets not found in the previous trip, leafy parks and elegant
on ancient lakes dried.

- It's natural - stated categorically -. For some are Republic.

Upon entering Spanish ports, the less disappointment in the vessel,
a discussion with government employees, the lack of space for a good
anchorage, made him smile embittered.

"Unhappy country! ... Everything was work of the altar and the throne. "

In London the river or at the docks in Hamburg, Captain Ferragut mocked his subordinate.

- There is no Republic, Toni ...! And yet, this is something.

But Toni does not give up. Contracted the hairy face, making a mental effort to give shape to
their vague ideas, clothing them in words.

At the bottom of these great sensed an affirmation of their own thoughts. At last surrender, disarm,
but not convinced.

- I can not explain: Words fail me ... Are the people that do that.

Tenerife to receive news of the war, summed up all their doctrines with the laconic of a winner.

-
There are too many kings in Europe ... If all nations were republics!

... This calamity necessarily had to come.

And Ferragut dared not fun this time of the simplicity of his second.

Everyone in Mare nostrum were enthusiastic about the new aspect of business. The sailors, taciturn
in previous voyages, as if sensing the destruction or the tired captain now working happily,
just as if they were to participate profits.

Bow at the ranch were delivered to many business calculations. The first trip of the war amounted to
ten of the above, the latter may provide gain about twenty.

And be happy for Ferragut, with the same indifference that his first official remembrance of
bad business before. Drivers were no longer called the captain's cabin to devise new fuel savings.
Had to take time, and Mare Nostrum going full steam, making fourteen miles per hour as a passenger
ship, stopping only when he blocked the way an English destroyer at the entrance of the Mediterranean,
sending an officer to believe that there had to board enemy subjects of empires.

The abundance reigned equally between the bridge and the bow, where they were the kitchen and
accommodation sailors, space ship respected as undisputed domain
Caragol uncle.

This old nicknamed "Caracol" - another old friend of Ferragut - was the cook on board, and but he
dared not tutear the captain, as in other times, the expression of his voice was mentally to understand
that continued use of this familiarity. Ulysses had known when fled from the classroom to paddle in
the harbor, and he, by the poor condition of their eyes, just withdraw from the coastal trade,
declining to be simple boatman. Seriousness and corpulence had some priests. Mediterranean was
obese, with a small head, neck bulky and triple chin, sitting in
the stern of his fishing boat as a Roman patrician on the throne of
the trireme.

His culinary talents suffered eclipses when the rice was not included as a fundamental theme of
compositions. All this food can give of himself he knew perfectly. In ports Tropics, crew, tired
of bananas, pineapples, avocados, greeted with enthusiasm the emergence of large pan of rice
with salt cod and potato or baked rice casserole, the golden crust drilled by red-faced chick
peas and black back of the black pudding. Other times, the cook, under the leaden sky of the
northern seas, they did recall distant memories of the country giving the monastic rice with
chard or the buttery rice with turnips and beans.

On Sundays and saints' Valencia, who were the first in the heavens
for Uncle Caragol - San Vicente Martir, San Vicente Ferrer, Our Lady
of the Forsaken and the Christ Grao - appeared the smoky paella, a
vast arena of rice, on which sand swollen grains lay shattered several
birds.

The chef surprised his men handing onions raw, bulky acre perfume brought tears and ivory white.
Were a gift from Prince kept secret. One had only to break them in a sock they loose their viscosity,
and then lost in the palate as crunchy snacks a sweet and spicy, alternating with spoonfuls of
rice.

The ship was at times near Brazil, at the sight of Fernando de Noronha, distinguishing the conical
huts of the blacks installed on the island under an equatorial sun, and the crew believed to eat
in a hut the garden of Valencia, passing from hand to hand tufted Liria strong wine.

When anchored in abundant fishing ports, undertook the great task of cooking a rice Abanda. Scullions
wore the captain's table to the pot where they boiled the buttery
fish, tossed with lobster, clams and all sorts of seafood.

He reserved the honor of offering the vast basin with its pyramid of golden rice and loose.

Boiled
separately (Abando), each grain was full of delicious soup pot. It was a rice contained in her
womb the concentration of all substances from the sea. As if fulfilled a liturgical ceremony,
he was giving half a lemon to each of those occupying the table. The rice should be eaten only after
the dew moistened with fragrant, evoking the image an oriental garden. Only unknown is the unfortunate
pleasure of inland calling to any ranch rice from Valencia.

Ulysses nodded to the reflections of the cook, taking his mouth with the first spoonful gesture question
... Then he smiled, sinking into drunkenness cuisine. "Beautiful, man Caragol! "His good humor
made him say that Gods were fed only rice Abanda Olympus at your hotel. I had read in books.
And Caragol, sensing this as a compliment answered gravely: "Yes, sir." Toni and the other officers
head chewed low, stopping only to regret that the old man had fallen short in measuring ragweed.

The
oil was so precious to him as rice. At the time of shipping miserable when the captain made
an effort to achieve further savings, especially watching Caragol
large flask of your kitchen.

Scullions suspected the young sailors and smoothed hair to make nice using oil as an ointment.
Any head that was placed within reach clouded his view held in his
arms, leading to her face.

The farther olive perfume liquor aroused his anger. "Ah, lladre !...» and dropped his paw huge,
soft and heavy as a gauntlet of fencing.

Ulysses felt able to climb the bridge stating that the navigation could not continue exhaustion
of bottles of amethyst-colored liquid from the mountains of Espadán.

Their short-sighted eyes at the ports immediately recognized the nationality of the vessels anchored
to both sides of the Mare Nostrum. His nose sadly sipped the environment. "Nothing !...» Ships
were tasteless, North boats that made their food with butter, maybe boats Protestants.

Sometimes progressed slowly over the side, following a trail intoxicating until was placed
in front of the ship's kitchen neighbor, sucking their rich perfume. "Hello, brothers !...»
Can not go wrong.

Were Spanish, and if not, came from Marseilles, Genoa or Naples; In short, my fellow Americans
who ate and lived in all latitudes the same as if they were in the small inland sea. Soon to open
membership talks in the language Mediterranean mix of Spanish, Provencal and Italian peoples invented
hybrid of the African coast, from Egypt to Morocco. Sometimes these were sent as crossing each
tribe and tribe: the far off country. Other, estranged suddenly without knowing why, advanced fists
on the gunwales, shouting insults at those who reappeared method,
each two words, the Virgin and her holy child.

This was the signal for the guy Caragol, religious soul, to return with his haughty silence
kitchen. Toni, the second, made fun of his enthusiasms devotees. People bow, materialistic
and cocksucking, instead listened respectfully, because he who measured
the wine and the best snacks.

The old man spoke of Christ's Grao, whose picture occupied the site more visible the kitchen,
and all heard a new story by the sea arrival of the holy image, lying on a ladder, in a ship
went up in smoke after his miraculous release cargo.

It had been when he was only Grau a group of huts away from the walls of Valencia and threatened
by the landing of the Moorish pirates. For many years, had taken Caragol shoulder and step barefoot
on the holy day of the party. Now, other seamen enjoyed such an honor, and he, old and short-sighted,
the public waited for the procession to embark on the huge relic, from his clothes by the wood.

All
he had with him was sanctified by the contact.

In fact, it was great thing, then walked around the ship lightweight clothing, with the immodesty
of a man who sees evil and considered beyond human concerns.

A shirt with long skirt and a pair of floating cotton or cloth dirty
yellow by season, were his clothes.

On his shirt was open at all times revealing a patch of white hairs. The trousers are held consistently
with single button, and when the wind lifted his shirt, went out to light a new furry triangle
and white, with the top up, which was then matted chest triangle, with the top down. A straw
hat covered his head up while working at their pots.

The Mare Nostrum could not sink or suffer harm while leads him. In days storm, when waves swept
the foredeck or aft and advanced sailors suspicious, fearing that they are carry a heavy sea,
Caragol pulled his head out the kitchen door, ignoring a hazard that
could not see.

The heavy rain passed over him, going to put out their fires, but that kindled their faith. "Courage,
boys!"

The Christ of Grao was engaged in protecting them, and nothing bad could happen the baque ...
Some sailors were silent, others angry, they did this and that in the picture and his holy scale,
without the unworthy devotee. God, who sent the dangers to man sea, know that your bad words
have no malice.

His religion spread to the depths. Nothing meant the fish in the ocean. He inspired the same
cold indifference that those vessels without ignoring the perfume oil and they cooked everything
to "cream." Had to be heretics.

A Mediterranean fish knew better, and came to them by good Catholics, and proclaiming his own
way the glory of God. Standing next to the rail, in the warm afternoons the Tropics, had, for the
honor of the inhabitants of the distant sea, the wondrous miracle Alboraya ravine.

A priest on horseback waded its mouth to carry the Viaticum to a dying person, when the beast
stumbled and fell, opening the ciborium wafers, being washed away.

Since then shone every night mysterious lights in the sea, and at sunrise a swarm of little
fish came to stand against the cliff, their heads emerging water
wafer to show that each of them in his mouth.

Fishermen tried in vain remove them. Offshore fled with her treasure. Only when it was raised
cross and clergy the priest himself went into the ravine to the knees, they decided to close,
and one after another was putting his host into the chalice, retiring then from wave to wave,
moving graciously of your ass.

Despite the vague hope of an extraordinary wine jug encourage more of hearing, or murmur of
disbelief came at the end of the story. The devotee was angry Caragol and foul-mouthed as a prophet
when he considered a threat to their faith. "Who was the son of a flea who dared to doubt
what he had seen ?...»

And what he had seen was the party of peixets, celebrated every year, listening to the story
of men doctísimos miracle in the memorial chapel built on the edge of the ravine.

This miracle of the fishes was almost always followed what he called
the miracle of Peixoto, claiming that the weight of dead fish to crush
the doubts of impiety.

The galley of Alfonso V of Aragon - the only ocean king of Spain -
collided to leave the Gulf Naples with a hidden rock near the island
of Capri.

It started one side of the ship, hiciese without this water, and was sailing to sail with the king,
the ladies of his court and retinue of barons covered with iron.

Twenty days after arriving at Valencia safe and sound, as every sailor
that when danger calls for help to the Virgin of Puig.

By registering teachers calafates the hull of the galley, he saw
a huge fish detached from their backgrounds with the tranquility of
an honest person who has done his duty.

A dolphin was sent by the Blessed Lady to pegase his back to the breach. And so, as a stopper,
had sailed from Naples to Valencia, without missing a drop of water.

The cook did not allow criticism and protest. This miracle was undeniable. He had seen their
eyes when they were good, he had seen an old painting of the monastery Puig, and all appeared
in the table with the relief of the truth: the galley, the king,
Peixoto and the Virgin at the top giving the order.

The breeze lifted the skirt of the narrator, popping his abdomen split into two hemispheres
by the tightness of one button.

- Uncle Caragol, which escapes! - Warned a mocking voice.

The holy man with the calm seraphic smile which looks beyond the pomp and vanities of existence.

-
Let: no longer flies.

And began the story of another miracle.

Ferragut assimilated these exaltations lightly cook his clothes at all times. Burning inside
a fire incessantly renewed. On foggy days up to the bridge with a smoking drinking glasses
he called calentets. Nothing better for men who were to to spend long hours outdoors in stationary
surveillance. It was coffee mixed with rum cane, but in unequal proportions, with more alcohol
than the black liquid.

Toni quickly drank all the vessels offered. The captain refused, demanding black coffee.

His sobriety was the old sailor, the sobriety of the father Ulysses,
who mixed wine with water in all its libations.

The gods did not love the old sea spirits. Amphitrite and the Nereids only accepted on their altars
fruits of the earth, sacrifices pigeons, libations of milk. Perhaps because of this the Mediterranean
coast, following a concern hereditary drunkenness saw the lowest of the recesses. Those who
were not really drunk sober avoided like the sailors of other seas, hiding the roughness of
the alcoholic beverage or coffee with sugar.

Caragol was drunk in charge of all the "warm" despised by the captain,
others who are engaged himself in the mystery of the kitchen.

On hot days tailored refresquets, and these "soft" were large vessels,
half water, half sugar cane on a thick bed of sugar mixture that fulminant
posing without gradations, from the vulgar an angelic serenity to
drunkenness.

The master scolded him when he saw her eyes swollen and red.

I was going to go blind ... But he was not moved to the threat. Needed to hold his own way
prosperity of the ship. And this prosperity, the most interesting to him was able to abuse the
oil and sugarcane, without fear of recrimination at the time of the audit. Grao Christ, which lasted
forever War! ...

The third trip of South America to Europe came to finish the Mare
Nostrum in Naples wheat and hides where he landed.

A collision at the entrance of the harbor with a ship-hospital Englishman who went to the Dardanelles
dented its stern, also breaking a fin of the propeller.

Toni roared with impatience to learn that they would have to stay close to a month in forced immobility.
Italy had not yet intervened in the war, but his defensive precautions monopolized all naval
industries. It was not possible before the repair. Ferragut cash figure for their business this
waste of time. We expect valuable freight in Marseilles and Barcelona. But trying to calm himself
and placate his mate, repeated many times:

- England will indemnify ... The English are generous.

And to numb his impatience, was moved to the ground.

Naples does not look like much when compared to other famous Italian cities. Its true beauty was
the huge gulf between hills of orange and pine trees, with a second frame of mountains, one of which
extended over the eternal blue sky, its summit of volcanic vapors.

The village was scarce in famous buildings. The monarchs of Naples had been more than often
foreigners residing far and ruled by proxy. The best streets, palaces, monumental fountains, came
from the Spanish viceroys. A sovereign source mixed. Carlos III, Castilian Neapolitan by birth
and heart, had the best of the city. His enthusiasm constructor old neighborhoods still embellished
with similar works which had risen to years later in Spain to take
his throne.

After admiring the statues in the Greek museums and the objects unearthed that revealed the intimate
life of the ancients, Ulises ran tortuous arteries and often bleak
popular neighborhoods.

Were steep streets, forming landings, flanked by narrow houses and
towering.

All holes had balconies, and a railing at the front were stretched strings, buntings clothes
of different colors to dry. Fertility Neapolitan crowd was boiling these streets. Around the
outdoor kitchens crowded customers eating boiled macaroni feet or pieces of meat.

Advertised vendors hawking their wares with similar melodic ballads to, and down to meet him balconies
topped by castles strings. The haggling and shopping were from the bottom of the street-ditch
to the seventh floor. In contrast, herds of goats rose winding stairs with the agility of habit,
to be left empty the udder all plateaus.

Marinela springs attracted the captain for his "color" of the Mediterranean port. The unit Italian
had knocked down and rebuilt much, but still left standing several rows of houses, low ceiling,
pink or white façade, green doors and the floor under more advanced the top, serving to support
a gallery with wooden balustrades. Everything in them was not was
carpentry brick thick, equal to the work of the shipwrights. Iron
there was no land in these buildings they remembered the ship sailing.
The pieces were as dark cabin. Through the windows were large sea
shells on the comfortable, paint pictures depicting hard and childish
frigates, multicolored shells brought from distant seas.

These homes
were repeated in all ports of the Mediterranean, as if they were the
work of the same hand. Ferragut had seen a boy in the Grao of Valencia,
and still found them in Barceloneta, in the suburbs of Marseille,
in the old Nice, on the island ports Western navies in the African
coast occupied by Maltese and Sicilian.

On the village aligned along
the Marinela, the churches of Naples domes protruding and towers with
glazed tiles, green and yellow. More than Christian churches roofs
seemed auction of oriental baths.

Lazaron there was no longer barefoot
and red cap, but the crowd - clad as all port workers - are still
crowded around the poster defaced that was a crime, a prodigious miracle
or a specific, listening in silence the story the narrator or the
charlatan. The old popular reciters declaimed with heroic gesticulations
Tasso's epic octaves. Accompanied by harps and violins sounded the
last romance that Naples had become fashionable in the world. The
positions of the scattered ostricarios perfume dead organic wave.
Around them, the empty shells of oysters out against mud the rounds
of his pearly lime.

Next to the former Captain of the Port - palace
of Charles III, white and blue with an image of the Immaculate Conception
- the cars were crowded landing. Ferragut the same thing was that
years before, with their original hybrid shots. The rods were occupied
by an ox white, lustrous, with huge horns and wide, an animal similar
to those contained in religious ceremonies of the ancients