 Cut
large tangles of branches covering the ground as if he had just passed through a band giant lumberjack.
Striped trunks appeared at a short distance from the earth, clean cut and polished, as a single
hack. Around the roots unearthed revolts stones abounded with lumps, stones sleeping in the
bowels of the earth and the explosion had blown onto the surface.

Here and there - shining through the trees or over the road with a compelling untimeliness annoying
to rodeos - spread their huge pools a water film, all equal, geometric regularity, round,
right round. Compared them with bowls Desnoyers sunk into the ground for the use of invisible giants
who had cleared the forest. Its depth enormous began at the very edges. A swimmer could throw in these
pools without touching the background. The water was green, dead water, rainwater, with a crust
of vegetation perforated by respiratory bubbles of small bodies that were beginning to live in their
guts.

In the middle of the hill, surrounded by pine trees, there were several graves with wooden crosses,
tombs French soldiers topped with tricolor flags. On these mounds covered kepis old moss gunners
rested. The Woodsman fierce, to destroy the forest, there reached
blindly to the ants moving the logs.

Don Marcelo was wearing leggings, big hat and a poncho over his shoulders rolled fine like
a blanket. Had brought to light these garments that reminded her of her life far into the room.
Lacour walked behind him, trying to preserve their dignity Senate between gasps fatigue and
puffing.

He also wore boots and soft hat, but had retained solemn skirts of his coat, not to completely
abandon his parliamentary uniform. Before marching two captains serving as guides.

They were on a mountain occupied by the French artillery. Iban to the summits, where there
cannons and guns hidden in a line of several kilometers.

The German gunners had caused this damage responding to the shots of the French. The forest
was torn by the shell. Funnels circular gaps were opened by the "hot pots Germanic background
soil and impermeable limestone retaining the streams of rain.

They had left their car at the foot of the mountain. One of the officers, old gunner, I said
this precaution. Should continue uphill cautiously. Were available from enemy, and a car could
bring their guns.

- A little tiring the rise - continued -. Courage, Senator! ... We're
close.

Began to cross paths with artillery soldiers. Many of them only had to the kepis military. Factory
workers seemed metallurgy, casters and adjusters, with corduroy pants and jackets. They had
bare arms, and some, to march the mud with greater security, wore wooden shoes. Were former employees
of incorporated by iron mobilization to the reserve artillery. Their sergeants had been foremen
and many of its officers, engineers and shop owners.

Suddenly, those who went up the iron ran into the forest dwellers. When they spoke shook the ground,
shaking the air, and the inhabitants of the trees, crows and hares, butterflies and ants, fled
in terror to hide, as if the world were to perish in noisy seizure. Now the roaring monsters
remained silent. It came along to them without seeing them. Among the green foliage sticking out the
end of something like a gray beam; other times, this apparition emerged
from a pile of snags.

When turning the obstacle appeared a square of clean soil occupied by several men who lived, slept
and worked around a huge device mounted on wheels.

The senator, who had written verses in his youth and poetry was speaking when opened a statue
in his district, saw in these lonely mountains, blackened by the sun and smoke, bare-chested
and rolled up, a sort of priests in the service of the fatal divinity,
he received from his hands the huge offering of blasting caps, vomiting
in the form of thunder.

Hidden under the branches, to escape the observation of enemy fliers, cannons French were scattered
along the ridges and plateaus of a series of mountains. In this herd had huge steel parts, reinforced
skate wheels, like those of the locomotives Desnoyers was agricultural
in their rooms for plowing.

As beasts smaller, agile and playful in their incessant barking, groups of 75 appeared interpolated
between the dark monsters.

The two captains had received from the general body of his army the
order to teach Senator detail the operation of the artillery.

And he accepted with reflective Lacour gravity observations, as he turned his eyes to one side
to another in the hope recognize his son. The interesting thing for him was to see to Rene
... But remembering the official pretext of his journey, followed by barrel cannon hearing explanations.

Shells
showed the servants of the pieces: large ogival cylinders extracted underground stores. These
stores, called "shelters" were deep burrows oblique holes reinforced
with sandbags and timber.

Served as refuge to free personal and keeping them covered with a munitions explosion.

A striker showed them two bags of white cloth attached, well packed.

They looked like a sausage were double the burden of one of the big guns. The bag was opened,
leaving to the packets of light pink sheets. The senator and his companion were astonished that
pasta, which looked like a toilet article, was one of the terrible war explosives modern.

- I say - Lacour said - that finding on the street one of these bundles have believed from bag
lady or a perfume clerk forgot ... anything but explosive. And with this, which seems made
for the lips, you can blow a building! ...

Went their way. At the top of the mountain saw a little tower collapsed. Was as more dangerous.
An officer examined from the enemy lines to assess the accuracy the shooting. While his comrades
were under the earth, or hidden by the foliage, he fulfilled his mission from this point visible.

A
short distance from the tower before their eyes opened an underground passage. Descended its murky
depths up to several rooms dug into the ground. One side of mountain peak was cut to its exterior.
Narrow perforated stone windows provided light and air to these pieces.

An old commander in charge of the sector, came to meet him, Desnoyers
thought he saw a head section of a department store in Paris.

His manners were exquisite, her soft voice seemed implore forgiveness at every word, as if addressing
a group of ladies offering the new art genres. But this impression only lasted a moment. The
gray-haired soldier lenses and myopic, he kept during the war, the gestures of a receiving plant
manager to his clients, was to move his arms in bandages and cotton inside their sleeves. He was
wounded in both wrists by a shell explosion, and yet still in place.

"Mr. Devil mellifluous and syrupy! - Thought Don Marcelo -. We must recognize that someone is.
"

Had entered the command post, a vast piece of light received by a horizontal window four meters
wide with only a ½ inch height. He seemed open space between two sheets of shade. Beneath it
lay a pine table full of papers, with several stools. Occupying one of these seats are covered
with eyes all over the plain. On the walls were electrical appliances, switchboards, and acoustic
speaker phones, many phones.

The commander pulled and gathered the papers, offering stools with the same gesture that being
in a classroom.

- Here, Senator.

Desnoyers, humble fellow, sat down beside her.

The commander looked like a director theater ready to show something special. Placed on the
table a huge role reproduced all the accidents of the plain extended before them: roads, villages,
fields, highlands and lowlands.

On this map appeared a triangular group of red lines as range. The apex was the site where they were,
the wide part of the boundary triangle the real horizon covering his eyes.

- We are going to shoot at the forest - pointing out the gunner said one end of the letter -.
Here is there - he continued, naming the horizon a small dark line -. You take the twins.

But before the two would support the edge of the eye in his eyebrows, the commander placed on the
map a new role.

It was a huge and slightly blurred photograph, on whose lines appeared embodied a range of lines
alike.

- Our airmen - the striker continued polite - have taken this morning some views enemy positions.
This is an extension of our workshop photo ... According to their reports, camped in the forest
are two German regiments.

Don Marcelo saw the stain on the picture of the forest and within
white lines contained roads, small groups were square blocks of houses
in a village.

Believed to be in an airplane looking at the land to a thousand feet high. Then she took the twins
to eyes in the direction of the red lines, and saw in the ring enlarged
lens of a black bar, something like a thick line of ink: the forest,
the refuge enemies.

- When you have, Senator, we will begin - the
commander said, arriving at last end of the pool -.

Are you soon? ...

Desnoyers smiled slightly. What was going to be soon his illustrious friend? What could serve voyeur
simple as him, and certainly excited by the newness of the show? ...

Rang out behind him a number of rings, called vibrations, vibrations that responded. Acoustic
tubes seemed to swell with the gallop of the words. The electric wire populated the silence
of the room with the beating of his mysterious life. The friendly chief and did not address
his people. You guessed it behind him at the mouth of a telephone conversation with his officers
to several miles away. The hero did not leave sweet and well spoken a time when his twisted courtesy.

-
Would you be kind enough to start the official said softly ?...-- far -. With much happy to inform
the order.

Don Marcelo felt a slight nervous tremor beside one of his legs. Lacour was anxiously for novelty.
I was about to start the fire would come up with something that had never seen. Cannons were
above their heads: the vault tremble as the deck of a ship when they
shoot on it.

The room, with its noise and vibration tubes phone was like the bridge
of a ship at the time of the rumpus.

The noise that was going to happen! ... It took a few seconds, they were very long ... Suddenly
a distant thunder seemed to come from the clouds.

Desnoyers felt no vibration nerve near his leg.

The senator moved to impulses of surprise, his expression seemed to say: "And this is all
?...»

The meters of land they had on them muffled explosions. The shot of a piece thick amounted
to a club on a mattress. More impressive was the cry of the projectile playing at a great
height, but displacing the air with such force that its waves lapped the window.

Hula ... fled, weakening its roar. Was not long before their effects
notasen.

The two friends came to believe that he was lost in space. "Do not come ... fails' thought.
Suddenly appeared on the horizon, just in the right place on the
blur Forest, a huge column of smoke, a rotating tower of black vapor,
followed by a volcanic explosion.

- What wrong with living there!
- Said the senator.

He and Desnoyers experienced a feeling of animal joy, a joy selfish, seeing in a safe place to several
meters below ground.

- The Germans are going to pull at any moment - said softly to his friend Don Marcelo.

The Senator was of the same opinion. Undoubtedly going to answer a duel artillery.

All French batteries had opened fire.

The mountain thundered ceaselessly is succeeded the roar of projectiles, the horizon, still
silent, was bristling of black twisted columns.

The two acknowledged that he was very good at this shelter likened to a theater stage ...

Someone knocked on the shoulder to Lacour. He was one of the captains who guided them through
the front.

- Come up - he said simply -. Must see up close how our guns. The show is worth it.

"Up? ... The character was perplexed, amazed, as if they proposed an interplanetary journey.
"Up, when enemies were about to answer from one moment to another?

...

The captain explained that Lieutenant Lacour was perhaps waiting for his father. Had warned
his phone battery, located one mile away: he must use the time to
see him.

They went back to the light through the opening of the subway. The senator had stood majestically.

"They
are going to throw - said a voice inside - and they will also answer the enemies."

But he adjusted his coat like a cloak tragic, and moved on, grave and solemn. If those men of
war, parliamentary opponents wanted to laugh secretly of emotions of a civilian, were being disappointed.

Desnoyers
admired the determination with which the great man was thrown out of the underground making same
as if you march against the enemy.

A few steps tore the atmosphere in tumultuous waves.

The two hesitated on feet, while his ears were buzzing and felt in the neck felt the impression
of a coup. They occurred while they had begun to throw the Germans. But theirs were the pulling.
A ball of wool of smoke emerged from the forest, to a dozen meters,
dissolving instantly.

Had shot a large caliber parts, concealed in the branches next to them. The captains were given
an explanation without stopping the pass. They had to keep ahead
of guns, suffering the violent sound of explosions, not to venture
into space discovered where was the watch-tower. Also they expected
from one moment to another the opposite response.

Which was next
to Don Marcelo congratulated him on the fearlessness with which the
cannon bore.

- My friend knows that - the senator said with pride
-. He was in the Battle of the Marne.

The two soldiers appreciated
with some astonishment the age of Desnoyers. What place had state?
What body belonged? ...

- I was a victim - said the aforementioned,
modestly.

An officer came running toward them on the side of the
tower for the space bare of trees. He repeatedly waved his kepi for
being seen better. Lacour trembled for him. Could distinguish the
enemy is offered as a target to cut recklessly open space with the
desire to arrive earlier. And even more shook him up close ... It
was René.

His hands oppressed with some strange strong hands, sinewy.
He saw the face of his child with the most noticeable features, obscured
by the patina of life setting. An air of resolution, confidence in
their own forces, it appeared to him. Six months of intense life had
changed. It was the same, but with broader chest, stronger wrists.
The soft and sweet features of the mother were lost under this male
mask. Lacour acknowledged with pride that seemed to him now.

After
the hugs of greeting, René Don Marcelo attended more regularly than
his father. I fancied him something in the scent of Chichi. Asked
her, wanted to know details of his life, in spite of the frequency
of his letters arrived.

The senator, meanwhile, moved by his recent
excitement, had taken an air oratorio addressing his son