 

Continued to be surprised in his home, running room. Again to be somebody. The sight of his
riches, the enjoyment of its comforts, he returned the notion dignity. At the same time was raised
in the memory of all the humiliations and insults he had suffered. Ah, you bastards! ...

Two days after the morning rang the doorbell of his door. A visit!

A soldier walked toward him, a small line infantryman, shy, in kepi
in his right hand, muttering excuses in Spanish.

- I know you were
here ... I come to ...

Is this voice?

... Don Marcelo pulled him in the dark reception, leading to a balcony
... He looked so beautiful!

... The red kepi was obscured by dirt, the cloak, too wide, was shaved and recosido; the boots
gave off a smell of leather. Never had seen his son as smart and handsome as he was now store this
waste.

- You! ... You!

...

The father embraced him convulsively, crying like a child, feeling her feet refused to sustain.

I had always hoped would eventually be understood.

She had her blood was good, no other defects a certain stubbornness.

He apologized for what happened now, attaches itself to large blame. It had been too hard.

- You soldier! - Repeated -.

You defend my country, which is not yours! ...

And back to kiss him, then steps back to appreciate its appearance. Decidedly she was more beautiful
in his grotesque uniform when he was famous for its elegance the dancer, beloved of women.

Finally
control his emotions. Her eyes filled with tears, shone with evil
glare.

A gesture of hate his face twitched.

- Watch --- stated simply -. You do not know what this war I come from it, I've seen closely. There
is a war like any other, with enemies loyal: it is a hunt for wild
animals ... Strip without scruple against the pile.

For each Tumbes, deliver mankind from danger.

He paused a moment, as if he doubted, and added to the end with tragic calm:

- Maybe you'll find familiar faces in front of you. The family is not always to our taste. Men
of your blood is on the other side. If you see any of them ... do not hesitate, pull! is your
enemy. Kill! ... Kill him!

PART THREE

I

After the Marne

In late October, Desnoyers family returned to Paris. Doña Luisa could not live in Biarritz away from
her husband, in vain "the romantic" spoke of the dangers of return. The government was still in Bordeaux,
the president and the ministers were only fast appearances in the
capital.

Could change at any moment during the war: what the Marne represented only a temporary relief
... But the good lady remained insensitive to these suggestions after reading the letters of
Don Marcelo. Also, thinking of his son, its July, a soldier ... He thought back to Paris would
be more in touch with him in the nearby beach to the Spanish border.

Chichi also wanted to return. René occupied much space in their thinking. The absence had served
to learn that she was in love. Long time no see 'soldier »!... sugar And the family left their
hotel life to return to the Avenue Victor Hugo.

Paris was changing its appearance after the toss at the beginning of September. The two million
poor people who remained quietly in their homes without being drawn panic, had welcomed the victory
with grave serenity. None accurately explained the course of the battle came to know when it was over.

One
Sunday in September, at the hour when the Parisians strolling the beautiful building evening, they
learned from the newspapers the great victory of the Allies and the
danger had run.

The people rejoiced, but without abandoning his attitude calmly. Six weeks of war had changed
radically the character of Paris, noisy and impressionable.

The victory was slowly returning to the capital its former glory. A deserted street weeks were
filled with pedestrians. Iban opening stores. The neighbors used at home to a monastic silence,
returned to hear noises in the roof installation and under his feet.

The joy of seeing Don Marcelo reach theirs was obscured by the presence of Dona Elena. Germany
was returning to meet the enemy again at home. When could be freed from this bondage? ... She was
silent in the presence of his brother. Events Recent seemed disorienting.

His face wore an expression of surprise, as though he saw disorder in the heart most basic physical
laws. He could not understand in their reflective silences how the Germans had not won this ground
she walked on, and to explain this failure, admitted the most absurd
suppositions.

A particular concern increased his sorrow. Their children ... What would your children! Don
Marcelo never spoke of his meeting with Captain von Hartrott. Shut up his trip to Villeblanche,
not wanting to tell their adventures during the Battle of the Marne. What sad his men with
such misery? ... Had merely to announce to Dona Luisa, alarmed by
the fate of his castle, many years could not go to him as having become
uninhabitable.

A zinc plate cap now to replacing the old roof to prevent rains topped the internal destruction.
Later, after the peace, think of your renewal. For now had too many people ... And all the ladies,
even Dona Elena, shuddered, imagining the thousands of corpses in a circle around the building,
hidden in the soil. This view was moaning again to Madame de Hartrott: "Oh, my children!"

His brother, for humanity, had reassured about the fate of one of them, Captain Otto. He was in perfect
health at the beginning of the battle. I knew a friend who had talked with him ... And would
not say more.

Doña Luisa part of a day spent in churches, numbing their concerns with the prayer. These sentences
were no longer vague and generous about the fate of millions of unknown
men for the victory of an entire people.

The concrete with maternal selfishness in one person, his son, a soldier like the others and
perhaps at that time was endangered. The tears that cost him! ... Had pleaded that he and his
father would understand, and when God wanted to encourage it to end
with a miracle, Julio moved away to meet death.

Their prayers were never alone. Someone praying beside her at the church making same requests. The
teary eyes of her sister rose at the same time as yours to the body crucified. "Lord, save my
son !...» Doña Luisa, saying this looked to July as he had shown her husband in a pale photograph received
from the trenches with kepi and cape, his legs crushed by a band of cloth, a gun in his right
hand and his face darkened by a nascent beard. "Lord, protect Dona Elena looked !...» to turn
a group of officers with helmets and uniform reseda green spots match leather gun, the twins,
the map pockets and belt from which hung a sword.

When you see them out together to Saint-Honoree d'Eylau, Don Marcelo
was angry sometimes.

- They are playing with God ... This is not
serious.

How can attend a prayer so contrary? ... Ah, women!

And with the superstition that awakens the danger, he believed his
sister caused a serious evil to your child.

Divinity, tired of so much prayer contradictory, would return back to not hear about or to others.
Why did not leave this woman fatal?

...

Just as the beginning of hostilities, he felt the torment of his presence. Doña Luisa unconsciously
repeating the allegations of his sister, subject to the test than the husband. Don Marcelo could
well find that the victory of the Marne there had been no never in reality was an invention
of the Allies. The German generals had believed wise go back, because of its high strategic forecasts,
leaving for later the conquest Paris, the French had not done more than go after their steps, and
let them free field. That was all. She knew the views of some countries military neutral, had
spoken in Biarritz with highly competent people, knew what people were saying German newspapers.
Nobody believed in beyond the Marne.

The public did not even know this battle.

- Your sister says that? - Interrupted Desnoyers, pale with surprise
and anger.

Only he could think of wanting a complete transformation of that enemy housed under his roof.
Ay! Why did not become man? Why not come to take his place, if only for half an hour, the phantoms
of her husband? ...

- But the war continues - naively insisted Dona Luisa -. The enemies are still in France ... What
has served as the Marne?

He accepted the explanation, shaking his head with an air of intelligence,
understanding all immediately, to forget and repeat then an hour later
the same doubts.

However, began to show a silent hostility against her sister.

There were tolerated up then his enthusiasm for the homeland of her husband because he considered
most important the bonds of family rivalries nation. By the fact that Desnoyers was Karl French
and German, she was not going to fight with Elena.

But this feeling soon faded tolerance. Her son was in danger ... That all Hartrott die before July
would receive the slightest injury!

... Participated in warlike sentiments of his daughter, recognizing it as a talent to appreciate
the event. He wanted to see carried to reality all fantastic stab Chichi.

Fortunately, "the romantic" went before externalize this antipathy. Passed afternoon outside
the home. Then, returning, was repeating views and news of friends his family unknown.

Don Marcelo was indignant spies still living hidden in Paris.

What mysterious world frequented his sister? ...

Suddenly announced he was leaving the next morning: I had a passport for Switzerland and then would head
to Germany.

It was time to return to the side of yours, very grateful the benefits of the family ... And Desnoyers
drove away with aggressive irony. Greetings to von Hartrott, wished him a visit as soon as possible
in Berlin.

One morning, Dona Luisa, instead of entering the church of the Place Victor Hugo, continued to
rue de la Pompe, flattered by the idea of ??seeing the study. It
seemed that this was to get in touch with your child.

It was a pleasure again, more intense look at his picture or read his last letter.

Argensola expected to find the friend of good advice. He knew that continuing to live in the
study. Twice he had gone to see her on the stairs, as in the past,
but she was absent.

Going up the elevator, her heart throbbed with a speed of pleasure and anguish. You happened to the
good lady, with some shame, that must have felt something like 'women crazy 'when missing for
the first time to his duties.

Her tears came freely to be in, that room whose furniture and paintings
reminded him away.

Argensola ran from the door to the back of the room, agitated, confused,
greeting her with phrases Welcome and objects, while stirring.

A woman's coat was dropped on a couch deleted by an oriental fabric, a hat with flowers was flying with
his hand to hide in a corner.

Doña Luisa thought he saw in the hollow of a curtain women's shirt fleeing, being transparent
pink nakedness.

On the stove, two bowls and toast denouncing waste double breakfast. These painters! ... Like his
son! And was moved to think low life of the director in July.

- My respected Dona Luisa ... Dear Madame Desnoyers ...

He spoke French and he cries, looking at the door where he had gone white flutter and pink. Trembled
at the thought that the hidden companion zealous incur errors committed with an untimely appearance.

Then
they spoke of the soldier. The two were communicating their news.
Doña Luisa repeated almost verbatim paragraphs of his letters, re-read
many times. Argensola declined modestly to teach texts of their own.
The two friends used an epistolary style that would have blushed to
the good lady.

- A courageous - he said proudly, considering the
acts of his own partner - a true hero and I, Madame Desnoyers, I understand
some of this ... His bosses know how to appreciate ...

July was a
sergeant at the two months of campaigning. The captain of his company
and other officers the regiment belonged to the circle of fencing
where he had obtained so many victories.

- What a race! - Continued
-. It is young people who come to the higher grades, such as generals
of the Revolution ... And what of exploits!

The soldier was only
slightly mentioned in his letters some of his acts, indifference of
living accustomed to danger and appreciated his comrades as a throw.
But the bohemian the exaggerated, lauded as if they were the most
climactic events of the war. Had taken an order through a hellish
fire, dropped dead after three messengers without to fulfill the same
request. He had jumped the first to attack and saved many trenches
with bayonets in hand to hand shock, to many comrades. When his bosses
needed a trustworthy man, invariably say: "That call Sergeant Desnoyers."

I
said as if he had witnessed, as if he had just returned from the war,
and Dona Luisa shaking, crying tears of joy and fear at the thought
of the glories and dangers of your child. Argensola He had the gift
of touching, by the vehemence with which he related things.

Believed
that enthusiasm should thank both showing some interest in the person
of panegyrist ... What had he done recently? ...

- I, madam, I have
been where he belonged. I have not moved from here. I witnessed the
"place" Paris.

Protested in vain that his reason for the inaccuracy
of this term. Influenced by his readings about the war in 1870, called
"place" to operations together to Paris for During the Battle of the
Marne.

Modestly pointed to a framed diploma of gold as on the piano,
with the a tricolor background. It was a role that was sold on the
streets: a certificate of residence in the capital during the week
of danger. He had filled in the blanks with their names and qualities
and at the foot containing the signatures of two residents of the
rue de la Pompe: A bartender and a friend the concierge