 Are you still with the same
hobby horses? What Venturita? A woman and be done, right? ... (Pause.) Cecilia is good? - ended
questions quickly.

To all their questions answered in monosyllables Belinchón lord.

- You know, Gonzalo - stopping suddenly said, - that a little kill me now?

- What!

Neatly told mishap spring.

Finished the story, fell into a deep consternation.

- I suppose that the family will already be in bed?

"- Gonzalo said after he had deplored enough (at least in concept) the danger of the merchant.

- No, they are in the theater ... No one knows where available; do
you, dear?

- Hello!

Are there company?

- Yes, from a few days ago. Do you think I would have killed, Gonzalo?

- Phs ... maybe you have broken a leg, or both ... or rib.

- Less bad! - Said Mr Belinchón sighing.

In this he had already admitted enough in the population, and at a
certain street, don Rosendo farewell to the uncle and nephew.

It gave him the hand with obvious sadness.

- I'm going to the theater to find the family.

Until tomorrow to rest, Gonzalo.

- See you tomorrow ... Regards.

Mr. de las Cuevas and his nephew were paired walking slowly around the house the first. Then
fell on the traveler a flurry of questions, do not stay on in England, but all relate to the
trip by sea. "What wind? close-hauled always right? ... Did not you ever fallen? The boat cabecearía
not much, is it loaded ... What flows? Marearíais not provided with all the material, eh?
Do you have to reefing Liverpool exit?

I know, I know the cloth!

Gonzalo replied to questions with distraction, which, moreover, hardly
understood.

He was downcast and gloomy.

Finally watching his uncle, stood firm and said:

- What is it, Gonzalito?

You seem sad.

- Me? Ca! No, sir.

- I swear it is.

Followed another in silence, and Don Melchor, slapping his forehead, exclaimed:

- I know what you got!

- What?

- Poor land. I passed the same thing. When jumping on the ground after a trip I went an uneasiness,
a sadness, a desire so great return on board! It lasted two or three days until I became accustomed.
Anyway, I had desire to reach port, but once there, she missed life
on board.

I do not know what the sea is that attracts you? ... That pure air! ... That movement! ... That
freedom! ... A that make you feel like the boat, eh? - Ended by saying with a grin who credited
his extreme insight.

- Damn ... From what I have won, man, I'll tell you in confidence
... is to see my girlfriend.

Don Melchor was amazed.

- Really?

-
What you hear.

She thought for a moment, Mr. de las Cuevas, and he
said:

- Well, if you want to go to the theater to greet ... Meanwhile,
I'm going to see how Amendment Domingo.

- What has to be amended?
It is a wonderful person - said the young man smiling.

The guy, without
realizing the irony, he sneered.

- Oh, I see you so ignorant as you
have been ... I am looking for dinner.

- I wait for you, man - said
Gonzalo, who was already far .-- It may not have dinner.

And without
taking race, but with unusual speed, thanks to his huge legs, saved
the streets, lit by some rare oil lamps in the theater. Any you stumble
in that hour you inglesote diputaría by the many who come to Sarrió
sometimes sending ships, other mining concessions to recognize or
mount any industry. His colossal stature, big man, are the hallmarks
of the Spanish race, even we are in one of the northern provinces.
Then, that so long coat, boots three soles, hat exotic form, clearly
denounced abroad. Well, looking at him Face had just completed the
illusion, because it was white and smooth and decorated with long
beard, blue eyes, hazel or rather, as those who are almost except
in the northern breeds. Seize the short time remaining before us you
get to the theater to provide the reader with some biographical information
about this young man.

The Cuevas family to which it belongs, came
to be giants and marine, from time immemorial. Marino had been his
father, his grandfather ocean, marine uncles, and also marine their
children. Gonzalo lost his father and mother when it was eight years
old owner of a not inconsiderable fortune, managed by his uncle and
guardian, Don Melchor, in whose power and save his father left him
to die