 All the guys from here go to shrift! Best! Best! Marquesitas Who sends
love! Well seen, who are lovers? Eddie ... Eddie only! The fool, as you have money, like his father is
rich, sure will listen.

My countrymen were quick to warn that late afternoon I spent hours listening to me play to Gabrielita.
One night, he entered the pharmacy, I heard talk of Miss Fernandez and saying something about
me. I soon learned that in all the corridors, in all the gossip in every house, they said and
repeated that I was in love, I drank the wind by the daughter the wealthy owner of Santa Clara.

XV

One
afternoon I received a note from Don Roman, a note very punticomada,
gracefully written, with the excellent letter that Palomares years
ago that my teacher gave skilful reputation hangers.

"My dear disciple and friend

"Like you I offered yesterday, last night I was to visit Mr. Mr. Castro
Perez to speak about you, and how useful it could be in the office.

As I told him I thought it appropriate: I told him of your good qualities, your good character,
your hardworking nature, your statement strong and targeted, and the difficulty that I was to
continue the studies and career started so brightly, and the need that you looked to find something
productive. Oyome of goodwill (which I thought was a good omen) and I promised to take in the
matter at the earliest. I judge it necessary to make a visit as soon as possible and I recommend
you try my friend (who was also very close, the Lord your grandfather) your great and characteristic
kindness, courtesy makes you unique. Castro Pérez is paid much of externalities, and to have
you flatter environment is necessary. It's manic, and slightest thing goes against him. And
leave you prepared the field. Up to you to rest.

"Come over here. The liver is me since yesterday, annoying and 'achicopalado.
"

Come, talk, and you show you something you'll like it much, some hexameters I forged last night
against those "wise men" of "The Shadow" and "The Voice."

"You know how much you want this your teacher and friend

Román López.

     

He gave me a bad feeling the esquelita my master teacher. Of course I thought I was going to
try a man of bad character. This got me upset. I figured it was a Castro Pérez of those lawyers
old peritísimos Court issues, but otherwise few out-and-out ignorant, a village matron, paid
his fame and his science, those who long for everything old, and are always unwilling to everything
new, a phantoms angry, grumpy, those who view with suspicion by young people, and are pleased
at all hours censored encyclopedic education these days, which, while not bulk produce non-breeding
wise fools, like so many old people I knew, fenced in his learning scenario, very arrogant
and cocky with his science, science meager and mean that conquer them in the popular vile fans
and acolytes of that pass as they say amen Socrates of the village, so they loose the biggest
blunder. In a word, I figured Castro Pérez was one of those old lawyer, replete with Latin
phrases, which are known memory the items that are allowed to push in canon, and who write
miss with 'h', 'cape theologians' as they were called "in illo tempore"; experts in the legal shenanigans,
but vacuous by everything else habilis to hide their ignorance and dismissive of what they
do not understand; watching everyone with an air of protection, and to appear serious and brainy,
showing inaccessible and go for a few wonders sullen and come to be, in towns and cities like Villaverde,
lords of life and property.

Nothing you will draw from them if you appear humble, submissive, hardcore fans their people.
Woe to you if you approach such lofty gentleman, pretending that expect all of them! Woe outcasts
who do not give up! Surely, nothing will, of fixed all will answer in monosyllables, and leave
there angry and desperate.

I hated to follow the advice of my teacher. I understood very well what it meant to me by saying,
"I recommend that you treat my friend with your great and feature goodness"; but it shocked
me introduce myself as a shy and meticulous donated pretending estimate that did not happen
to me the limits of a vulgar and common respect, as we give all for reasons of politeness and
courtesy. What to do? I started to follow the advice of "Pomposísimo Cicero ', and late afternoon,
just before it rang the Angelus, I went to Pérez Castro's house.

He lived behind the parish, in a dilapidated and gloomy mansion.

When I reached the hallway I was tempted to go back and go talk to
Don Procopio.

I bite the bullet and walked to the door of the office.

- Inside!
- Said a high-pitched voice.

- "Mr. Castro Perez?

- Inside! - Repeated
falsetto.

It was the scribe. Bad impression made me very sensitive little person. It was a pale boy, haggard,
bloodless and consumed by work, a wretch condemned, no doubt, to life imprisonment in that
world of files and tomes, always bent over that table covered with
a green baize table in front of that lead inkwell filled with ink
born thick.

- "Mr. Castro Perez?

- In the other room! - He said
the clerks.

- I can go?

- Go you.

I slipped the rundown.

My man, almost lying on an armchair near the window, looking through
a file.

Joined to feel upset, left the seat, and went to close the door, perhaps so that the clerk could
not hear us.

- What sent you? - I said, frowning.

- My teacher, Mr. Don Roman Lopez, has recommended me ....

Pérez
Castro's face changed expression.

- Come on, girl, - muttered getting
up and offering me a seat, - here you have a chair.

My man returned to his armchair, and then over his glasses, looked at me from head to toe.

- What is available? Ah! Now I remember! Are you the young clerk that you want to enter this house?

-
Yes, sir.

- Well .... We will see, see if you are useful. Here we have a lot of work. You know: My customers
are numerous, and therefore do not need task. If you want to work ....

- It's what I want ...-- muttered, looking down, while the lawyer
looked me straight in the eye.

- Well, I want it, trabajadorcito.

Ten clerks have changed this year, and that Indeed, none has left me happy. Best not worth
three snails!

- Do not pretend to be worth much, but ... procure, under such right
direction, learn in a short time as necessary.

Pérez Castro smiled, and two hands clasping the thumb and the index
is composed glasses, and then patting the abdomen, and fell back and
stopped me.

- None of flattery, young man!

Nothing worthy of what they say about me ....

He spoke slowly and calmly, hearing.

- You are by far modest ...--¡ Here! - I said .-- Here the incense!
- Who is not aware the talents of you, your profound knowledge of
his reputation, his honesty purge?

They praise me blushed.

- Well!

Well! We'll see if you get what you want. Are you effectively recommended Roman. He tells me you
was his pupil, and the more advanced ....

- The Lord my teacher loves me, and me too lenient.

I want to work, and I sure to advance to next person so recommended.

Who does not know that you are the first Counsel for the State of Veracruz!

Pérez Castro swelled up like a turkey, rocked in the chair, pretended to blush, and said:

- To the Point! To the Point!

Do you know the industry?

- No, sir.

- Well then, how are you applying for a job that is unknown? I have good news you. Roman and
I said you're a smart boy, who can you make nice verses .... But it is well known: they are the
best employees who go around all day consonants to hunt ....

I wanted
to strangle the old man.

- Sir, - I said - it is true that I make
verses, but do not live so pleasantly delivered to occupation.

Also, I have understood you ... usually make ... And very beautiful!

-
Thanks, girl!

Remains of my hobbies youth!

In truth that poetry tends to captivate, but only from time to time.

Well, well, well!

This was his crutch.

- I hope you in memory of my grandfather .... Romao and would speak
of the circumstances where I am.

I can not return to Mexico, I can not continue their studies, and I am obliged get me a piece
of bread ....

- Well! Well! Well! So does a young delicate.

We will see, see if you serve me.

But I must warn you ... up within a week I can not solve.

Tomorrow I'll see if I can reconcile several things. Come back here,
Friday or Saturday .... Y.. you say.

Do you have good lyrics?

- Regular, sir.

- Come on. There you have what is necessary.

Obscured. On the table was a candlestick with a candle.

- Do not you see? Then light the candle and write down what you like.

Obeyed. I took the pen and wrote: "If Mr. Castro Perez Bachelor receive me worthy home, will
try to serve him with all faithfulness. "

I went to the lawyer, taking the blade and spark plug. My man sat in his armchair, was composed
with both hands, glasses, and read what was written.

- Well!

Well! Well! According! I prefer the old and gallant Spanish lyrics .... But end, you is clear
and beautiful. The English lyrics so mannered and smug!

And after a pause:

- You know: Friday or Saturday ....

- I'll come over here ....

-
No, I'll call you.

I understand that there will Pérez Castro fell ill. That told me two days later the worthy Don
Roman.

- The thing is for sure, boy. You nailed a pike in Flanders!

XVI

We were in late October, mediated the fall, and the fields were green again by rain show off
their foliage. The morning was crystal clear, fresh, prodigal of light, and sunsets short,
splendid, incomparable.

I was happy to wander around Villaverde. A hundred times I traveled the banks of the Stony,
and many others saw, from the top of Brush Hill, sunset.

My Site favorite, where I went every evening, was almost flat rock, which appeared collapsed the last
peak, and sideways on a rock, gave me a comfortable seat that surrounded buvardias coral, soft
Cebadillas fragrance, wonderful and flowing grasses ferns which floated
on the wind, scattered the brown feathers of ripe ears.

What a beautiful picture! At my feet the first streets of the city, as extended in yellow plush carpeting,
the mall Santa Catalina, buildings crowding in proportion as they
approached the Plaza, the town divided by the river, and along it
Franciscan Monastery, grim and sombre, desolate and sad, like crying
absence of beggars.

North side, the hills of San Antonio, the pastures of the brush, the shacks of Barrio Alto, hidden
in the thicket of jinicuil and orange groves.

To the east, the most picturesque in the valley. Right and left the mountains of Mata-Thick, covered
with the lush vegetation of the lowlands, the hill of the Otates that seen from the point where
I was, like a camel lying on the sand awaiting the breath scorching deserts.

Between these heights the darkened plain, the sky split in two parallel horizontal strips: upper
waxy and transparent bottom tinted violet. About this area profiles were drawn soft rolling of distant
mountains, and the haughty dome Church of Christ, and presumed correct
dome, topped by a cross of iron, around which endless circling swallows
a few dozen stragglers.

     In the snowy peak fringe of silver clusters; celajes tulle, tattered
gauze burned by Light west, remnants of burning red brocade, pearly
ribbons, birds of fire dyer snakes twisting and stretched, skiffs
candlelight lace, which rowed like swans in the huge high sea sapphirine.

The
sun was hiding in a slow, majestic golden abyss, the mountains of
brilliant clouds, through which passed the last gusts rose miss divergent
in the spaces, or down to illuminate with uncanny clarity the solitary
purple pastures, the Gramal slopes, the cane plantations of saccharin,
the ashes of reeds river, the trees which divide the fields, and the
dense woods of a nearby village, which newly whitewashed bell came
from the thicket as a pillar ruin.

And here and there, and beyond,
and everywhere, in sheets, strands and weeds, golden twinkle of yellow
flowers, forerunners of the grim and gloomy days of the first week
November.

The last fires of the dying sun shone in the quiet city
on the tiles domes, and steeples, stained glass and mirrors, and shiny
silver-lend at Stony. Swift birds returning to their nests, thousands
of birds singing in the bushes of the hill, and the wind whispered
in the grass.

I plunged me in the contemplation of the spectacle
charming. They woke up in my mind sweet memories, and my heart shudder
feelings and tenderness of first love. My escaped his lips the most
beautiful verses of my favorite poet, my hand traced on earth red
a beloved name, and the shadows that descended in droves to the plain
I thought see the figure to grace the gentle maid.

In such delusions
- delusions that were, and nothing more - happened in my soul some
painful melancholy sighs and I tore my eyes moistened. And I sought
among the thousands of houses Villaverde the humble home of my aunts.
There were the good old wanted me so much, there was Angelina, the
poor orphan object of my love. Quietly, very quietly, fearing that
any hear me, I said the name of the sweet girl, as if she were near
me and could I would listen and tell: Angelina, I love you I love
you! Love me! Are you unhappy? I also I am unhappy. Live for each
other, we, as the poet says:

Two souls with one mind and heart throbbing
chord