 And when you create one that is the last straw poverty, is that there are others more miserable,
because one takes to the street and ask, and give, and eat, and half a bagel is fed ... But those
who join the shame with the desire to eat, and are sensitive and thrive for request, the ones
that were possible and education, and will not stoop ... God, how unfortunate are! it will flow to kill
the bug ... If I have money left after giving him lunch, I see how I compose to take the penny
you need to pay cot tonight. But alas! no ... you'll need eight reales. Heart tells me that
last night did not pay ... and how that trust does not Bernard ordered more than once ... will
need to pay any account ... already know if you have two or three nights on credit ... No, but
I had the money, I would not give it, and although it offered, first slept in the open to catch
it these poor hands ... Lord, what, what things are seeing every day in this world so big
misery! ".

While the languid and scrawny Frasquito Obdulia talked joyful pleasant things, distant tired
of the sad reality. Since I saw her come to Providence, in figure Benin, the girl felt herself
calm your anxiety and shock, and the gentleman also breathed by the very happy occasion, and
was glad to see the birds conjured them by the day, a serious conflict of subsistence. Each other,
well-worn faded lady and leading man, had, in through its radical shortage, an inexhaustible
wealth, efficacious, almost mint, extracted from the mine of his own spirit, and though they
used the products of this venerable lavishly, the more you spend, more glut had their flows. It
was, therefore, this wealth on the faculty lovely detached from reality, when they wanted, moving
to a imaginary world, all bienandanzas, and such pleasures. With this divine faculty, if it
was not even warned, in many cases, enormous sufferings, because when they were deprived of
property absolutely positive, taken out of the imagination Amalthea's horn, and waved to see
out of it the ideal property. The strange thing was that Mr. de Ponte Delgado, having at least
three times the age of Obdulia, nearly exceeded in imaginative power, as in the decline of life,
was renovated in the flapping childhood.

D. Vial was what is commonly called a soul from God.

His age was not known, or in part have consisted, for he had burned the church record of Algeciras
where he was baptized. He had the physique of a rare privilege that could compete with conservation
of the mummies Egypt, which did not alter setbacks and hardships. His black hair is kept and abundant
beard, no, but with a little polish almost harmonized with each other. Spent hair, not the
romantic, disheveled and sullen, but those used to the 50, shiny, with a side parting, well
ahuecaditos tufts over the ears. Movement hand to cup the two strands and modeling in place,
was one of those bad habits physiological, second nature, they become part of the first. Well
with Melenita of kink and beard greasy and retinta's face was Frasquito Ponte they call childish,
not to know what expression of naivete and trust that you would see in nose girl, and her
eyes were lively and were already dying. Always looked tenderly, throwing the rays of sunset
amid gloomy clouds of the horizon of bleary tear, tab sparse, eyelid rough, large crow's feet.
Two assumptions stood out among many that were the pride of Ponte Delgado, namely the hair and small
feet. To the greatest tragedies to the most cruel and mortifying abstinence, had resigned; to wear
shoes that are too old or that would invalidate the perfect structure and the beautiful proportions
their little feet, did not have, no.

XVI

Exquisite art to keep the clothes do not talk.

Nobody knew how he found in eccentric portals economic disasters, which became a part shoestring no
one as he knew treat with care the perennial use clothing to defy the years, remaining in pure
wire, no one knew how he used petrol to clean the dirt, ironing wrinkles hand, stretch the cramped
and amend knee. What that lasted a top hat not for that. To find it would not be collating all
the chronologies of fashion, because by dint of being old wearing chisterómetro of the nearly
modern era, and this illusion the delusion that helped plush, as well smoothed with loving parental
care. The other clothing, if the hat matched in longevity, could not emulate him in the dissimulation
of years of service, because with so many twists and transformations, and many routes needle
passes and iron, and were but a shadow of what they were. A gabancillo summer clarucho, using
D. Bottle at all times: his garment was less inveterate, and he served for hide, closed to the
neck, everything else that had less than half of the pants. What was hidden beneath the garment
that only God knew Ponte.

Most harmless person I do not think has ever existed, most useless,
either.

That Ponte had not never served at all, as attested to his misery, impossible to hide in that
sad West of your life. Fortunilla inherited a regular, played some good destinations, and
did not care or family responsibilities, they froze in celibacy, first worship himself, after having
lost too much time looking for scruples and criteria too rigid a marriage of convenience, not found
or could find, with the goodies and perendengues he wanted. At the time there was still no word
corny, Ponte Delgado devoted his life to society, dressed with elegance affected often do not tell
the rooms, because then little used this name, but some good home podium and distinguished. The
actual rooms were few, and Frasquito, though in his old age was gala have entered them, the
truth was that neither knew the lining. In chat rooms haunting and attending dances, as well as
casinos and convention centers male Not to mention that out of tune, but neither was known for
his wit, nor for that noble blend correction and careless elegance which is true. Very estiradito
always, that yes, very attentive to his gloves, his tie, his small feet, it was pleasing to the
ladies no interest one, tolerable for men, some of which will truly estimated.

Only in our heterogeneous society, free from scruples and distinctions, that is the case a
hidalguete, holder of four homelands, or a medium-wage clerk was confused with Marquis and blue
blood counts, or the heroes of money, false centers elegance come
together and alternate operating the sumptuous life of their business
or their vanity, or by daring affairs, and those who go to dance and
eat and socialize with Ladies, no other object than to obtain recommendations
for promotion, or for a Head to miss impunity office hours.

Do not say this for Frasquito Ponte, the which was more than a fine ragamuffins times its
social heyday. Its decadence began to manifest itself in a noticeable way to 59, fought heroically
to 68, and to come this year, marking the destination table with very black line, desplomose
the unhappy lover in the depths of misery, to rise no more. Years before, ate the last remains
of his fortune. The destination with great difficulty could get Gonzalez Bravo, took it ruthlessly
revolution did not have unemployment, there was no able to save. The wretched abode without
income the day and night, and compassion some good friends who sat at his table. But good
friends died or were tired, and relatives showed no compassion. Starved, nakedness, deprivation
of all who had been his greatest pleasure, and so tremendous crisis, his innate gentleness
and self-esteem were as a millstone around the neck so soon sank and drowned: there was a
man able to pester your friends with requests for money, vulgar saber, and only in rare Sometimes
true critical cases or threat of death in the struggle with poverty, is ventured to reach
out to demand relief, magazine, yes, to save However, a glove, although tattered and torn,
glove was the end. Before dying of hunger Vial, to do anything without dignity. It was a case
of get dressed in the tavern of Boto, to eat two cooked real, rather than be in a good house, where
if you admitted with open arms also hurt his dignity with cruel jokes, rubbing in the face his
sponging and parasitism.

With agonizing effort sought the unhappy livelihood, even those from the less lucrative but the shortness
of their talents more difficult that in all cases is difficult. Both stirred, he could finally
find some empleíllos, certainly unworthy of its previous position but allowed to live some
time without stooping. Their misery, after all, could decorated with a veneer of dignity. Receive
a short pecuniary assistance as an intern school, or as a clerk boatmen Segovia Street, to bring
the accounts and put the letters, was begging certainly, but so well disguised that there was
no disgrace to receive it. Dragged for a few years life miserable, lonely dweller neighborhoods
South, not daring to go to the Centre and North, for fear of finding
knowledge being seen worse ill shod and clothed, and having lost those
accommodations sought others accepting the order, not without scruples
and crispaduras nerve, the position of broker or salesman a soap factory,
to go from shop to shop and house to house offering gender, and placing
the items could.

But so little malice labia and the poor man unfolded chalanesco in this job, soon had to stay on the
street. Recently assigned him to the sky around the Costanilla old ladies of St. Andrew, to
take them accounts of a trade remaining wax, which liquidated, yielding stocks in small lots
parishes and congregations. Work was scarce, but he gave only two pesetas a day, with which performed
the miracle of living, agencies, food and bedding, and do not say home, because it really did
not.

Already 80, he was the terrible year for the hapless Frasquito was determined to have no home,
and after a few days of horrific crisis that could be compared to the snail, for the one to take
home with them, was understood to Bernarda Sena, the owner of the bedrooms Noon Street Grande,
willing woman and knew distinguish. For three real bed gave him a penny, and unique gift to the decency
of the customer, for only one real addition let him have his trunk inside a small room, where
he also allowed spend an hour every morning straightening her clothes, and grooming with their
sinks, cosmetic and hands of dye. Came as a corpse, and left unknown, clean, fragrant and bright
beauty.

The peseta remaining employed in eating and dressing ... Huge problem, algebra impossible!
With all its troubles, this season gave him on break, because they suffered the humiliation
ask for help, and good or bad, wrong or right, the man had a way
of living, and living and breathing, and still had plenty of time
to give some back flips and imaginary spaces.

Obdulia his honest dealings with that knowledge came from Doña Paca and trade relations of the
old chandlers with burial, father of the child, if carried to the spirit of the Ponte comfort
from the consistency of ideas, tastes and hobbies, put him in the serious commitment neglect the
needs of the mouth to buy some new boots, since that time complained bitterly exclusively serving
horribly disfigured, and all passed the needy least come with ugly foot in the regions of the
ideal.

XVII

With the terrible imbalance brought to the dwindling budget, new boots and other True redundancy
items such as cream, cards, etc., in which it was necessary invest sums on account, it was entirely
empty Frasquito belly and without knowing where or how he had to fill it. But Providence, which
never abandons the good, afforded him a remedy in the house itself Obdulia, which killed some
days hunger, begging to accompany her to lunch, and of course I had to spend not a little saliva to slow
you down, and overcome his shyness and delicacy. Benin, which he read in his face starvation,
spent less Mademoiselle labels, and served him roughly, laughing at the fuss and Repulgue that
was delicate way to acceptance.

That day, that appeared so sinister, and that the appearance of Benin
changed to one of the happier, and Frasquito Obdulia, as they realized
that the problem was solved organic repair, threw a hundred million
miles from reality, to space their souls in the rosy atmosphere of
the real sham.

Ponte's ideas were very limited: they could purchase in the twenty
years of its social heyday were petrified, not to them was amended,
nor acquired new.

Misery snatching him from his old friends and relationships, and as his body is mummified, his
thinking was becoming fossil. In its thinking, did not exceed 68 lines and 70. Knew all the
things you know world was no man fallen from a nest or clouds, judged event and innocent people
innocence. The shame of their distressing withdrawal state and therefore had no little part in
his mental backwardness and poverty of thought.

For fear of being seen had a facade, he spent weeks and even months without leaving their neighborhoods;
and as I had not imperative that the center call him, did not go to the Plaza Mayor. She continually
random centrifugal monomania, preferring for his rambling streets
dark and lost, where you rarely see a top hat.

In such places, and enjoying of rest, time without fee and loneliness, his imaginative power
was reliving the happy times, or created in these people and things to taste and miserable
as the dreamer.

In his talks with Obdulia, never ceased to refer Frasquito its social and elegant life other
times, with interesting details: how it was presented at the gatherings of lords Tal, or What
Marquise, what distinguished people he met, and what were their characters, customs and dress.
Listed the sumptuous houses where he had spent happy hours, knowing the very best of Madrid
in both sexes, and recreating with entertaining talks very nice and hobbies. When the conversation
fell on matters of art, Ponte, raving for music and the Real, humming pieces of Norma and Maria
di Rohan, who listened Obdulia ecstasy.

Other times, rushing to poetry, verses recitábale D. Gregorio Romero Larrañaga and other poets of
those times silly. The radical ignorance of the young was their own land for these trials of
literary education, it was all new, all caused the rapture would feel at seeing a creature
toys for the first time.

There is never satiated girl (who is forced to call it that, despite
being married, with the abortion appropriate) to acquire and news
reports of the life of society, because although some had knowledge
of it, by vague memories of his childhood, and so her mother was told,
was in the descriptions and most charming Ponte paintings and poetry.

No Indeed, the company Frasquito time was more beautiful than the coeval finest men funniest
ladies and spiritual. A plea for it, described the fossil elegant banquets, dances, with all its
magnificence, the buffet or snack bar, with its variety of dishes and refreshments, had love
affairs that gave their time to speak; listing the rules of good manners then, even the tiniest
details of life luxuries was in use, and did the eulogy of the beauty that shone in his time, and had
already died or were cornered oldies. No ink was left in their own little adventures, or rather
first steps of love, or the inconvenience that such abuses had with husbands escamones or siblings
susceptible. In the result, had also its corresponding match, go! with sponsors, conditions, choice
of weapons, bickering, and finally, the clash of swords, ending all in fraternal lunch. Day after
day, was counting the number of incidents of social life, which contained all the varieties
of debauchery naive, elegance poor and righteous nonsense.

It was also a great fan Frasquito stage art and represented in various roles in home theaters one
day Flower Braid of her hair. Even sandwiches recalled parliament and both works, which he repeated
with emphasis declamation, and listened with rapture Obdulia, wiped tears in his eyes, by the
a phrase of the time. He also referred, and it had to use two sessions and a half dancing costumes
gave back Maricastaña years, a woman or Baroness Marquesa for I do not know how many. Frasquito
not forget, if you lived a thousand years, this great feast, attended Calabrian bandit.