 

Had attended the universities of Lima and Cuzco, where he learned enough to excel among their peers.
Not content with the chiefdom, which was hereditary in his family, requested be recognized as
legitimate offspring of the ancient dynasties of Peru, and had already achieved resume the title of
Marquis of Oropesa who had led their predecessors. [3]

Concerned with ideas of revenge, he felt the need to gain renown, and poured his flow to become
customers. Also got in touch with the most influential people the clergy, whom he painted with
more colorful the humiliation suffered by the Indians. Moved by their complaints, the bishops of
La Paz, Cuzco, and other prelates of Peru, had King passed through Santelices, Governor of
Potosi, very inclined to favor the natives, whose votes were a big weight for the credit he enjoyed
at court. Carlos III, fair and magnanimous prince, had noted with interest these appeals, and to address
them rightly called with Santelices had to sit on its Board of India.

With so prosperous auspices, D. Blas Tupac-Amaru, José Gabriel immediate kinsman, went to Madrid
to request the suppression of the half and the deals.

All announced a happy ending, when the Grim Reaper's life cut short these philanthropists, not
without suspicion of having been poisoned.

Alone, and exposed to the resentment of those who had been reported, it was decided Tupac-Amaru
to grab a violent discretion. Hallab of mayor in the province of ink such a Arriaga, greedy
and inhuman man, who abused power to satisfy their unquenchable thirst for wealth. Become hateful
to the people whom he tyrannized, this was the first victim who was sacrificed. Under the pretext
of celebrating the day with pomp of the monarch, the chief drew him to Tungasuca, where instead
of entertainment I expected, was condemned to expiate their crimes
on the scaffold.

The same fate was reserved for the mayor of Quespicancha [4], which saved life, leaving their
rich stores, and more than 25,000 pesos that had collected in the coffers the Treasury.

These remains, spread generously among the troops, widened the sphere
of action of these disturbances. Public officials, following the example
of the magistrates, who were the main target of the animosity of the
people, forsook their posts, and let open the field to the rioters