 

The news of this was going to the actual Inca, which, as will the city and enter in it, went
straight to the temple of the sun to make sacrifices. Capac bodies and other who had died, he ordered
them to be thrown into the fields to be food of birds and looking for participants in the
treason, were sentenced to death.

Understood by the Confederates and Viracocha Inga friends what happened, they sent many embassies
with great gifts and pledges, congratulating him, and responded to
these embassies happily.

At this time, say the apricots that were in the temple of the sun many ladies virgin which was
very honored and valued and did not understand more of what is to me that in many Part of this history.
They say that four of them used their bodies hideously certain porters
who guarded, and being felt, were arrested and do the same to adulterers,
and the high priest commanded them and they were righteous.

The Inca was with Condesuyo determination, but, being tired and old, left. By then, he commanded
him were made in the Valley of Xaquixaguana some palaces to exit to recreate in them, and as
he had many sons and conosco that the eldest, who had Urco called Inca, on whom was to be in
charge of the kingdom, had bad habits was vicious and a coward, wanted
to deprive him of dominion, to give it to another youth, who had named
Inca Yupanqui.

Many stories and occurrences happened between the natives of these provinces at this time; but,
as I have the habit of having only what I have of course according to the views of men here
and the relationship that I took in Cuzco, I leave very clearly that inorganic é I did not
understand, and I will try what I achieved as I have said many times before. And so is public
between dried apricots, which this time came to Cuzco ambassadors of the province of Collao because
they have that, reigning Inca Viracocha, Hatun possessed the lordship of [130] a man Collao Zapana
named as another hobo this name, and that as the malaria Titicaca [131] hobiese populated islands of people,
with large rafts, entered the islands, where he fought with the natives Dell and occurred between
him and them great battles, of which Carl [132] emerged victorious [133]; Besides, no one pretended
to honor or lordship rather than steal and destroy people, and loaded spoliation, without wanting
to bring captives turned over Chucuito, where he had made his seat and had its mandate is Hilave
village peoples, Xulli, [or Chulli] Cepita, Pumata [134] and others, and with people who might
join, after great sacrifices have dated their gods, or demons, determined to go to the province
of Canas, who, as I knew, named one [to others], went out to meet him and gave battle in which
were the Canas defeated with the death of many of them. Since this victory Cari, determined to
move forward, and in so doing reached Lurocachi, to where they say there was another battle
between them and that Canas had the same fortune in past.

With these victories, Carl was very proud, and the new had run everywhere, and as Zapana, the
Lord of Hatun Collao, to know it, grieved for the sake of others, and sent together his friends
and vassals, for you out on the road and take the spoils, but could not be done the meeting so secret
that Carl did not understand the plan that had Zapana, and good order retired to Chucuito by
wrong way, so that might not bother Zapana, and reached his land, he ordered the main della
together, that they might apercebidos for what Zapana tried, having
the purpose to pursue their destruicion and one in the Collao was
the Lord, and this very thought had Zapana.

And as is becoming known throughout the kingdom, the value of the Incas and their great power
and courage Viracocha Inga, who reigned at Cuzco, every one of these, trying to win their friendship,
sought with the ambassadors sent to him to show his defender and wanted to be against their enemy. These
messengers with large parties present at the time reached the Cuzco quel Inca palaces or permission
of the dairy farms that had sent for his hobby do Xaquixaguana; and understood what she came
and heard them, ordering that the rooms in the city and proveyesen what is necessary, and take
Paresce with dried apricots and elders of his advice on what would do with regard to the embassies
that had come from the Collao, it was agreed to request response in the oracles. Which are ahead
of the priests of idols, and shrink your shoulders, put the beard on the breasts, and making great
papos, which they themselves appear fierce devils begin to speak loudly and toned. Sometimes,
I, for my eyes, I've certainly heard speak to Indians with the devil, and in the province of
Cartagena, a seaside town called Bahayre, I heard the Devil in silvo respond Tenorio, and with such
tenors, I do not know how I say, but a chripstiano who was in the said town more than half a mile
from where I was, he himself heard Silva and despanto, was somewhat reluctant, and the Indians
were very great cry another day in the morning by posting the response of the Devil. And in
some parts of this land, as the deceased have them in hammocks, enter the bodies of demons and
sometimes respond.

A Aranda heard me say, quen Carex Island [135] saw also speak to a desto dead, and childish
things is to laugh and lies that are told.

For as the Inca determined to have response from the oracles, sent I used to go to such cases,
and say they knew that he must go to the Collao and seek the favor of Carl, and as This hobo understood,
Paresce sent before the messengers of Zapana, to whom said tell his Lord, he would come out with
shortness of Cuzco to see the land of the Collao, to where they would see and treat your friend.
Those who came from Carl said that they told him adrezando how he
was to go to his aid and favor, that would be with him soon.

And since this hobiese past, the Inca ordered to meeting people to get out of Cuzco, leaving one
of the main governor of her lineage.

Determined by the Inca to go to the Collao, left the city of Cuzco with many people from war, Moyna
and passed, and the towns and Quiquixana Urcos. Because they knew the coming Canches Inca,
agreed to be together and leave with their weapons to defend him pass through his land; and he understood,
he sent messengers were told that they had no such purpose because that he did not want to
anger them, before they have wished for by friends, and that if he it came the major and captains,
which would give them to drink their own glass. The Canches [137] said unto the messengers that
were not by going through what they said, but to defend the land of those who enter it. Gone
with the response, met with Viracocha Inga in Cangalla, and full of anger at how little had Canches
Embassy, ??walked over a rate that far, and coming to a town that has his name Combapata, beside
a river he passes, he found the posts in order Canches war, and there was given between each
other battle, where many died on both sides, and Canches were defeated
and fled which could, and the victors after them, binding and killing.

And having spent much while, returned with plunder, bringing many captives, both men, as women.

And since this hobiese past, Courts across the province sent messengers to Inca forgive them and
receive him in his service, and how he wanted nothing else, gave it to I used to conditions, which
was, to receive me by the sovereign lords of Cuzco is rigiesen by its laws and customs, thus
taxed in their villages hobiese under as did the others.

And having been some days in these things and understanding in making to understand people's courts
that they had agreed together, and that included not hobiese be given war or passion, and passed
on.

The large number Canas coupled habíanse Dell in the village called Lurucachi [138] and as understand
the damage that had the Canches receive him, and as the Inca not
to insult to the of so-called friends, or consented them wrong, determined
to make friends with him.

To this, the Inca king was walking, going to Lurucachi [139], and will understand that Canas had,
he showed was very pleased, and as that district was in the Aconcagua temple, he sent great
presents to idols and priests.

Arrived ambassadors from Canas, were well received by the Inca Viracocha, and answered them that
would be the largest and oldest of the Canas up near where you would
see, and as hobiese been some days in the temple of Vilcanota, they
would haste to be with them.

Y gave to the messengers some jewelry and fine woolens, é ordered his warriors not were daring
to enter the homes of Canas, steal anything they had, and waited until no harm, for the good
heart that had not obscured them and to take another thought.

The Canas, heard the answer, they sent a lot of maintenance to the roads and down of the people to
serve the Inca, with much justice understood that they were not injured in anything, and were provided
with livestock and suvica [140], which is your wine, and as hobiere reached the temple vain, made
according to their pagan sacrifices, killing many lambs for slaughter.

Ayavire walked away to where they were by far proveimiento Canas Inca and spoke to them lovingly,
and with them established his seat of peace as he used with others. And Canas, having as profitable
for them to be governed by so holy and righteous laws, reuse not going to pay tribute and
recognition to Cuzco.

This past Viracocha Inga determined to be from the Collao, to which already sap all what he
had been made, and in the pitch and in the Canas, and were waiting for him in Incas, and the same
in Hatun Collao Zapana to where Carl was already understanding how it gratulations to Viracocha
had, and that he was waiting, and because they are made more powerful remembered him to seek out
and give battle before the Inca came together with him, and Carl, who ought to be brave, went
with his people to a town called Paucarcolla [141], and together
were addressed to him the two most powerful tyrants of the region,
with so many people, which states that one hundred and fifty gathered
guarangas [142] of Indians and among all the battle was given his
style, which tell that he was very close and that killed more than
thirty Indian mill.

And having endured great time, Carl was the victor, and Zapana and his people were defeated
with death of many, and the same Zapana was killed in this battle.

After Zapana was killed, Carl took over his real and stole everything it had, with dam that turned
the Chucuito, and was waiting to Viracocha Inga, and sent adreszar the apartments and provide them
with maintenance. The Inca learned on the road to war and how Carl had expired, and although
the public have been loosely implied in secret I weighed about what
happened, because there differences between those two, I thought it
easily be lord of Collao, and thought of it again briefly to Cuzco,
because it does not happen misfortune.

And as was already near Chucuito, Carl went to the chief men of his own to him receive him, and
was quartermaster é well served, and as a wish to return to Cuzco briefly spoke with Carl, flattering
words of flattery about how much had been loose for good wanderings, and had come to help you
all will, and that it might be true that whenever it would be a good friend, I wanted to give
to wife to his daughter. To which Carl replied that was very old and was very tired that she
begged him to marry his daughter with youth, as I had in so many to choose from, and who knew
he had to take as lord and friend and recognize in what he commands, and so, it would help
in wars and other things that I offer. Y then, in the presence of the most major who were there,
he ordered a Viracocha Inga large gold cup and made the tribute lawsuit between them in this
way: they drank a bit of women had wine, and then the Inca took the glass and said, and putting
up a very smooth stone, said: "The sign is this, that this vessel is here and I did not move
neither you touch him, as a sign of what was set to be true. "And he kissed, made obeisance to the
sun, and did a great tachycardia and areyto with many sounds, and the priests, saying certain
words, took the glass to one of the bays where they placed the temple oaths like that they made
for kings and lords.

And having loose some days Viracocha Inga in Chucuito returned to Cuzco, being served everywhere
and very well received.

E and many provinces were settled, and could use improvements had better clothes and custom and
religions than before, governed by the laws and customs of Cuzco. Where he had been ruler of
the Inca city Urco, son of Viracocha Inca, which feature was very cowardly, reluctant, full
of vices and few virtues, but, as the eldest, had to happen on the rule of his father, who say
that, knowing these things, like many private of dominion and give it to Inca Yupanqui, his
second son, young man of very great value and adorned well-mannered, brave and courageous,
and I had the very great and high thoughts; more, the apricots and the main city did not want
them to be broken the laws and what was used and kept by ordination and status of the past,
and even knew how Inca was badly bent Urco, wanted him and no other to be king after the death
of his father. And this I have said so long, they say that desto warned me that since Urcos Viracocha
Inga EMBI their messengers to the city to get treated, and can not conclude anything of what
he wanted. And you come in Cuzco, he was made much he had received, and as I was very old and
tired, he decided to leave the government of the kingdom to his son
and give him the tassel and out the valley of Xaquixaguana Yucay and
to recreate and be glad, and he reported with the city because it
could not happen Inca Yupanqui.

Dried apricots, and even all the other natives of these provinces, the facts Deste reyeron Inca Urco.
For his poquedades, want to enjoy not say who achieved the rank of kingdom, and thus we see that
the account that the quipos and romances are the kings who reigned in Cuzco, this silent, which I will
not, because in the end, bad or good, with vices or virtues ruled the kingdom and sent a few days.
And after Viracocha Inga went to Valley Xaquixaguana, sent to Cuzco the fringe or crown, that
the elders of the city's surrender to Inca Urco having said that what had worked enough and
made by the city of Cuzco, that what of life he had wanted to spend on idle, it was old and not
war. And His will was understood then to make Inca Urco sentra fasting and other religions
as his custom, and finishing out with the crown and went to the temple
of the sun to make sacrifices; and made in Cuzco to his style a lot
of parties and great drinking.

Urco Inca had married his sister to have her son to succeed him in the manor. It was so vicious and
given to debauchery and dishonesty, without cure of it, it was with women low and concubines, who
were wanted and that she liked, and still claim that corrupted some of the quest in the temple
virgins, and it was so much honor, he did not want to be accepted. And he walked the more parts
of the city drinking, and after he had the body with the at sign and more than one drink, causing
vomiting, threw him, and shamelessly uncovered parts shameful, and I laid the chicha converted
into urine, and dried apricots that had to beautiful women via when he said: "My children, how
are you?" Implying that having them used, those who had were from
and not their husbands.

Building or house never made it, was an enemy weapons, in short, nothing but good feature of
being very liberal.

And hobiese taken the fringe, after being past few days, to sally forth idling at the houses
of pleasure for recreation of the Incas were made, leaving their lieutenant to Inca Yupanqui, who was
the father of Tupac Inca, and later tell you.

Cuzco things being this way, the Chanca, as told earlier, had beaten Quichua and occupied most
of the province of Andabailes, and as they were victorious, hearing what was said of the greatness
of Cuzco and its wealth and majesty of the Incas, they wanted he be not shrink or stop moving
forward, picking up weapons to them all possible; and then made great prayers to their gods
or demons, and leaving Andabailes, which is what the Spanish call Andaguaylas [143], which is entrusted
to Diego Maldonado rich enough people to defend her, and with whom he was meeting for the war, came
Hastu Huaraca and [144] his brother is very brave, called Omoguara, and left their province with
very great pride, Cuzco road, and walked until they reached Curampa [145], which settled its
real, and did great harm to the natives of the region. But as in those days many of people were
in the tall hills of the mountains, with large fences, called pucaraes not many deaths could
do or wanted to cannot, nor more than steal the fields. They went out of Curampa [146] and
went to the apartment of Cochacassa [147] and the river of Amancay [148] were destroying everything,
and so came to Cuzco, where he had already been the new of the enemies that came against the
city, but, although he was known by the old Viracocha not given anything, but before, leaving
Xaquixaguana Valley, went to Valley Yucay with their wives and service. Inca Urco also say
that he laughed, taking in just what it was obliged to take much, but, as the being of Cuzco
was saved to be increased by Inca Yupanqui and his sons, hobo he
be the one who got rid of these fears, his virtue, to all and not
only conquered the Chanca more subdued most of the nations is in these
realms, as I shall.

After the sacrifices made Chancas hobieron Apurimac, and arrived near the city of Cuzco, who wore
the captain general, or Lord of them, Hastu Guaraca [149] told them that mirasen company that
had high, that they stood strong and did not have any fear or dread of those who thought stop
scaring people with ears as large as they they placed, and that if
won, would have much to plunder and beautiful women who enjoy itself;
yours cheerfully replied that he would do his duty.

For as in the city of Cuzco hobiesen known and those who came against her, and Viracocha Inga nor
his son should give Inca Urco not anything for it, the apricots and more major were much sense
for it, and as I knew how close they were enemies, were made great sacrifices his custom, and
agreed to plead to Inca Yupanqui to take charge of war, looking after the health of everyone. And taking
his hand one of the oldest, spoke with him on behalf of all and he replied that when his father
wanted him to give the fringe, not consent, but it was Coward Inca his brother, and he never
with tyranny and against the will Village claimed kingship, and that it had already seen Inca
Urco not be suitable for be Inca, who do what they were obligated to the public good, without looking
at the ancient custom was not broken. Dried apricots responded, which ended the war, to understand
in which to rule the kingdom you agreed, and said that the county sent messengers that all who
wished to come to be residents of Cuzco, they would be given land in the valley and site for
homes, and would be privileged, and so came from many quarters. And after this, Inca Yupanqui,
the captain came to the square where the stone was the war brought
to their skin of a lion head, and give to understand that was to be
as strong as that animal.

At this time came the Chance to the saw Villcacunga [150], and Inca Yupanqui ordered join the warriors
who were in the city, with determination you out on the road appointing
the most valiant captains seemed, but, turning to take apparently
agreed the wait in the city.

The Chancas came to put his real Carmenga next to the hill, which is above the city, and then
put their stores. Those of Cuzco by the parties had made the entry big city rock filled pits
and covered over crafty, so as to fall that there walked. As in the Cuzco saw the women and
children [151] the enemy hobieron much horror and walked a great noise. Inca Yupanqui sent
messengers to Hastu Guaraca to settle among them, and no death hobiese people. Guaraca Hastu
with pride he disdained the embassy, ??and would not go over so that particular war, though,
importunities of his relatives and more people wanted to have discussion with the Inca and
so he sent to say .-- The city is located between hills in place strong by nature, and the
slopes and ropes were cut saws and many parts made of palm stout spines, which are as strong
as iron and more bitter and harmful [152] .-- They have spoken to Inca Guaraca Hastu And being
all put into a weapon, used rare sight because lighting more words to each other they said, relatives
to the hands, having very large screams and noise - because the men here are very alharaquientos
in his fights, and most feared his cries that his efforts for us - and fought each other long while,
and came night, the contest process, leaving the Chanca in real, and the city della round, keeping
it everywhere, because the enemy could not enter, because Cuzco and other places of these parts
are not fenced wall.

After the peal Guaraca Hastu encouraged to strive for their own fight, and do the same to Inca Yupanqui
and apricots to the people who were in the city. The Chancas, boldly went their actual will of the
entry, and those of Cuzco came to defend himself thinking; and turned to the fight, killing
many on both sides, but, as was the value Inca Yupanqui, who achieved victory in the battle
with death of the Chanca all, not escaped to what they say, but little more than five hundred,
and amongst these the captain Hastu Guaraca, which with them, although with difficulty, came
to his province.

The Inca enjoyed the spoils and hobo cannot so many men and women.

Disrupted the Chanca entered Cuzco Inca Yupanqui with great success and spoke to the chief of apricots
on who remembered how he had worked for them what they had seen,
and how little his brother or his father showed to have the enemy,
so to give him to him the lordship and rule the empire