 

The existence or nonexistence of a being, or rather that something is or is not, can we be sure in two
ways: by ourselves, or through others.

Knowledge of the existence of things that is acquired by ourselves, without interference others,
comes from the senses mediate or immediate, or they present us with the object or impressions
that they cause us to spend the understanding infer the existence what is not sensible or not.
The view immediately informed me of the existence of a building that I have this, but a piece
of SECUNDAIRE, some remains of a pavement an inscription or other evidence, I do know that
in such or such a place existed a temple Roman. In both cases I have the news to the senses,
but in the first instant, the second immediately.

Who lacked the senses would not know the existence of spiritual beings;
dormant for understanding could not get this news, nor reason, nor
faith, unless it be that God favored by extraordinary means, that
now it is not.

The distinction explained in any way prejudge up systems that can be taken on origin of ideas,
now they are supposed to be acquired, sometimes innate, sometimes come from the senses, are
now only excited by them, the truth is that we know nothing, think nothing, if senses have not
been in action. Moreover, until they leave to the ideologues of power imagine what it will seem
good on the intellectual functioning of a man who lacked of all the senses, we can safely give
them so great latitude clarify course nobody never what it really would have, since the patient
would not be able to communicate what happens, either by words or
by signs.

Finally here they are men endowed with senses, and experience shows
that these men know, or what they feel, or by what they feel.

ยง II.

Correcting errors on occasion of the senses. Your choice. Examples.

The immediate knowledge that the senses give us of the existence of
a thing, is sometimes wrong, because we serve as we have these wonderful
instruments that we have been granted the Author of nature.

Corporeal objects acting on the sense organ, causing an impression on our soul's make sure what
good this impression, we know how point corresponds to the existence of an object Here are
the rules to avoid errors in these subjects. Some explanations teach more than the precepts and
theories.

Long distance to see a moving object, and say, "there's a man 'closer, I find that it is not,
and there is only a bush swayed by the wind. Have I been deceived sense of sight? No: because
the impression that she has sent me a package was only moved, and
if I had the feeling he served well received, would have noticed that
I painted a man.

When I wanted him as such, should not blame the meaning, but to my little attention, or noticing
some resemblance to that between the package and a man seen from
afar, I inferred that this ought to be in effect, not realizing that
the likeness and reality are very different things.

Having some background
that will be a battle, or are harassing some square, methinks I heard
gunshots, and I stand by the belief that the fire started