 Until now they had not seen ... Gentlemen, take me where you want, but if it can declare
that I will come to whistle to the thief Italian ... I've been sick, I'm alone: ​​it explodes,
man, as if you had no daughter. Your Conchita is not yours, is Franchetti ... but it is art.
And now I say: If art is that the girls parents forget that they were killed, I say I futro in art
and I'm most happy to meet my shell to enter the house mending my
socks.

Sea lions out of business after forty years of sailing with all kinds
of risks and adventures, the captain was his neighbor Llovet important
Cabañal a population: white houses of one story, with wide streets,
straight and hot sun, like a small American city.

The people of Valencia who summered there gazing curiously at the old sea dog, sitting in an armchair
listed under the canvas awning shaded the door of his house. Forty years spent in the open, on
the deck of his ship, enduring the rain and spray from the waves,
moisture had infiltrated to the very bones, and rheumatism slave,
remained the most of the day motionless in his chair, burst into groans
and curses every time he stood up.

Tall, muscular, with a swollen stomach and fell on his legs, his face tanned by the sun and carefully
shaved, the captain seemed a priest on vacation, quiet and good-natured at the door of his
house. Her gray eyes staring and imperative, eyes of a man accustomed to command, were all that
justified the captain's reputation Llovet, the dark legend that floated around his name. He had spent
his life in continual struggle with the British Royal Navy, escaping the persecution of his famous
cruise in the brig full of dark meat, carrying off the coast of Guinea to the West Indies. Bold
and unalterable coldness never saw him swing his sailors. Contábanse horrible things about
him. Whole black cargo thrown overboard to escape the cruiser gave chase;
Atlantic sharks going to flock, by boiling the waves with his funeral
waggle, covering the sea of ​​blood stains, dividing his teeth
slaves, waving to despair his arms out of the water contained crew
revolts by him alone and hacked to death, abductions of blind rage
in which he ran for cover like a beast, even talked about some woman
who accompanied him on his travels, which, since the bridge, was thrown
overboard by the angry captain after a dispute over jealousy.

And with this, unexpected outbursts of generosity hands full relief to the families of the sailors.
In a fit of anger was able to kill one of their own, but if someone
fell into the water, cast to save without fear of sea and their voracious
beasts.

Mad with rage if black buyers deceived him in a few pesetas, and
spent the night three or four thousand dollars celebrating one of
those orgies that had made him famous in Havana.
