 What says
piety? says, "forgive to be forgiven ».... I know there are reasons apparent strength, but I
have studied the subject with affection and I've seen what you presented as obstacle is not
.... God wants no doubt that this work is carried out, because since I undertook, I see very clearly
the way of it. And what I see? I see that lady boredom of solitude and a lively desire to
establish order in their lives interrupted, I see that far to keep you grudge respects and loves
him. I have come to overcome some resistance that his soul had, and with little to you to help
me ....

- Father, father - said D. Carlos breathing hard, because I was struggling with the unbearable
weight of the sermon - that can not be. There are breaks that can not be welded never, never,
in heaven. I suppose you retreat to a desert, do penance, sanctify me, dying, except me and
entered the kingdom of God as blessed, even more, as a saint. Suppose you also that she regrets
her misconduct, receiving God's afflictions and fair calamities which rots in life, which is removed
to make life in the cloister, which then falls into the hands infidels, the martyr, the burn,
the swelter, who dies, who is saved, that is holy, that is pure as an angel .... Well, suppose
you think we are in the sky ....

- And embraced weep tears of forgiveness
- said the father was very moved and clasping her hands.

- No! -
Shouted Navarro, and syllable that sounded like a shot.

The Jesuit was perplexed, looking at his friend with horror. He dared not insist on its commitment
to the unchanging harshness of the rock in human form, which was externally all the unevenness
of the rock and all the bitterness inside the sea, but also him, the Jesuit, was the absence
of apparent hardness, endurance and persistent strength wave. Thought it prudent not to insist
for the moment, becalmed and without effort, he lowered his head, took a sigh and murmured in
a tone of peace these gentle words:

- Everything is for God. Talk about something else.

- Talk about something else - Navarro said cheerfully -. Tell me about something else, but 4
is of the cones.

- I had to say you do not know why - Gracian said confusing, but slapping
said forehead -: Ah!

I remember .... Apuntación I have here. A gentleman friend of mine rather, known to speak with
you.

I met him at the house of Doña Genara.

- At home! - Navarro said getting greener, and hammering nails into the arms of the chair.

-
Yes, also D Felicísimo told me about it this morning .... I do not
remember his name ... but I signed up and here it should be.

Saying this, the good Jesuit and then put his hand to the elbow arm
in infinity pocket.

- Do not bother you - Navarro said taking the
letter D. Very happy to open on watchman was, and showing it to his
friend -.

Is this your name?

- Same - Gracian said.

And at the very moment the door opened and there appeared the face, rather the eyes sheepskin
Mr. Zugarramurdi, which said no more than a single word:

- That
....

After a great time watching the ground sullenly, Carlos spoke
thus:

- That one .... You, dear father, I will do for me alone ....
Tomorrow either I can attend the meeting, but it represents the Father
Carasa.

I want to know immediately what to be determined. Will you come to tell me?

After answering yes to his affability not studied, the worthy Father
Gracian left to continue delivering their cones between the pious
ladies who could appreciate such interesting object devotee.

-IV-

While
Salvador was known to the emotion he felt at being in front of the
guerrilla, and this, I did not expect to find in the face of his mortal
enemy nothing but mistrust and disdain, was surprised and somewhat
embarrassed to look him unnerved, but did not suspect the reason for
this move.

Mandola sit and have a good time were the two facing each other,
but none were decided to speak first.

Carlos finally broke the silence by saying:

- I could not snub D. Very happy ... therefore I have received, at their peril this hard time.
You know I'm sick and the doctor says I should not bother me.

- That depends on you. I come with peace flag and decided not to bother me. You have done well to
receive me.

Some time ago I seek, and now I find you wonder if you think you do not I've chased and humiliated
enough.

- Would you rather be now? - Garrote said sarcastically -. As is and leave me alone. If I remember
you, if you disregard ....

- Poor man - said Salvador -. Your pride says so wrong with your displays of religious piety
.... I come now to test yourself and see if your soul is unforgiving,
as it seems, incapable of any feeling that is not of vengeance ....

-
Are you coming to test me?

... With a hundred thousand radishes, man, you're kind - said Navarro starting to get angry -.
And then I tell the doctor to be patient, I have no sulfur, I was not up to the mouth and eyes
of my heart gall! ... Hey you, diminished by give no other name, would come to enjoy yourself
at my misfortune, seeing sick and weak to punish an insult, or come to spy on behalf of the
Masons? If this is your intention, no need to sharpen our wits to find my actions. You can tell
these gentlemen who yes, I'm plotting radish! I do what I please, I work as a black for the
sake of the legitimate King and I and my friends got together and took from us, disregarding
stupid this government, whose police have bought. Seduce the army and bring it skillfully to our
cause, the Government is mistaken, and you bulla Masons pennant and I bought at two pesetas
apiece. Hey, you know everything you can and go with the story.

- I know that conspire - Monsalud said staying calm - and I do not
care .... Another issue brings me, a matter which is of great interest
to both, at least for me.

Tell me, have you thought ever, especially in these days of illness, isolation and sadness,
infertility of the infinite ways you used to exterminate? Do not you have come to mind considerations
about this, not you surprised yourself at certain times, meditating, without knowing how or why,
on the fact that all your acts of revenge have been futile, and God almost miraculously preserved me from
your cruelty?

While Salvador was saying this, I watched with some astonishment that
Navarro was not without stupidity and was, in fact, quite often had
thought about that problem.

However, not declare that his dark interior had been discovered, he snapped:

- Well, I never thought such a thing. What are these nonsense?

- These nonsense - growing Salvador said - are to show you that God, whom thou born of a mercy
absurd, you think your accomplice of your vicious violence and revenge, is someone who has
cheated and has protected me. How well and how much opportunity has broken your relentless combinations,
allowing came a day like this, which I will disarm forever!

Navarro followed him with stupidity.

- No matter how bad you suppose - said Salvador - do not believe you
can keep your grudges after knowing that you and I are sons of one
father.

The guerrilla jumped in her seat, as one listens to an insult.

His face flushed bubbling cast out of his mouth these words:

- It's a lie, a lie!

- Lie, eh?

"That is a lie?

I have it a sacred witness to me, written by the hand of the person most dear to me in the
world, and ratified on his deathbed.

You can believe it or not, as you fancy, let your conscience. Telling
you I do my duty.

Half of this secret up to you, although you wrong. I can not stay with him the whole thing.

Uneasily
in his seat, Navarro wavered between anger and curiosity.

- Those things - he said - can not think without something to prove it .... Let's see, what's
that? What means that package tied with red ribbon?

Salvador had taken a package and it chose the roles they wanted to show Carlos.

- This is the letter my mother wrote to me shortly before his death
- said her into the hands of Navarro -.

It is the confession of a failure redeemed by a life of sorrow and
darkness is santa statement that breathes honesty, patience and kindness.

You need to be a monster not to bend with respect to that life of
devotion and duty elapsed in the shade never repaired a shame ....

The
other read, read.

Salvador mentally watched him read and followed the concepts of the letter. Navarro finished reading
sighed and said:

- What I have thirst! ... If you wanted to take water from the jug at the glass and there is alcanzármelo
....

Monsalud gave him water, and when he saw him quench his thirst, gave
him other papers saying

- Do you know that letter?

- These are letters
from my father - he murmured Navarro, devouring with his eyes.

-
It is time now - said Salvador - to comment on the promises made in
those letters and never fulfilled.

Those old accounts be settled elsewhere.

Both were silent, and Navarro, making his soul all in the eyes, read
the few pages of that dark drama, and unbound by death.

At the conclusion of stared at the ground for very long space of time, and then, avoiding the
eyes set on his brother, he said:

- Well, I agree that this has no doubt. It seems clear that by nature .... But no, the fraternity can
not be improvised.

You are a child of my father, but you is not be my brother.

- Neither do I pretend, nor do I care about your fraternity - Salvador
replied returning Diversion -.

I do not need you at all. I just wanted you to know how close we got the Nature, the better
God said, to understand the role of Cain is bad, or even snubbed.

- An old letter can not be done in two irreconcilable enemies dear brothers .... I agree that
I can not chase you more: the memory of my dear father, the brave
knight who died for their country, intervenes and saves you ....

-
Before I save me with God's help - Salvador said scornfully -.

I have not come to ask indulgence, I do not need.

- Well, I can
give it, one hundred radishes! - Said the guerrilla sulfur -.

Look, give me water again, I have very thirsty, I know your secret
gall and vinegar.

Drank, and then, thinking a bit, he said, as if chewing the words:

-
Also, before talk of reconciliation is necessary to determine who
is the victim rather and who the offender.

You complain that I have pursued and talk about my cruelty.

Well, I say you're the monster, you criminal, you unworthy of forgiveness.

-
Remember those days of year 13, when he said the battle of Vitoria
Salvador with violence -.

Oh! you who provoked me.

- It was you!.

- You!

- I repeat to you.

The dispute soured.

Salvador tried to calm her with a gesture of conciliation. Navarro breathing as one who is
going to drown.

- Mira - said despondency - it is best you go.

- Before you hearing what I have to say.

- Then tell.

- Yes, I maintain that it was you who first brought our rivalry not
know why I made serious mistakes after that I offended you ...

-
The diminished confesses!

...

- I'm not like you, I have no pride in my crimes, or defend them, because mine against reason
and the rights of others.

- I have offended, and how! - Carlos said
it was all bitterness -.

With a hundred lives HAD you would pay no offense .... And come to tame them now with the nonsense
that we brothers, sisters by chance, on the whim!

... Worse, a thousand times worse for your conscience.

- If we were to do an analysis - Salvador said - everything that has happened between us from the
year 13, giving each a share of responsibility and guilt that corresponds, I think they'd all
be very badly. I know that there are completely irreparable faults in the world, and offenses
can not be forgiven. So bad that even at our new relationship, we
can not ever be friends.

But ....

- But what?

- But we put out as much as possible our hatreds, considering that there is a third culprit who
is responsible for a great part of this huge burden of mistakes that you and I we ....

Navarro did not let him finish the sentence she got up, reaching out as if to cover up mouth
to his brother, shouted as follows:

- Not the names, not names, because we go again .... You hit the nail on the wound of my heart,
blood still flowing and will flow as long as I live .... Woe you who the front ponérteme can
not excite me the mercy of the fraternity without exciting while
the heat of shame!

How did I get used to do with feelings loving the same person whom I have ever seen with horror?
... Leave me alone. I know I can not kill.

This is enough for you and me. Go away.

He was so hoarse that his last words were understood only .... After talking something Snoring and
slaps more, could be heard again.

- Wait .... The ulcer of my life, I have poisoned the body and has transformed my character making
dismissive and wild, has been my shame. This dagger, mighty God, when unpinning of my body!
... This poster horrible that I have on my forehead, when fall! ... I am a diminished because I have
not heard punish. I cut the branches and have allowed to grow the trunk! But the trunk will
fall: this is my desire, that's my insanity .... You know that the infamous - added speaking
very quickly in a low voice - far from being corrected, it progresses horribly scandal .... I
have been told that you also despise .... Well, let us unite to punish
.... He deserves death .... Castiguémosla and then ... then we will
be brothers.

- I see - horror Salvador said - you're so sick of soul
and body.

I do not propose such monstrosities. You're too embedded in the habits and ideas of guerrilla
to think reasonably.

The furor came the depression in the irritable person of Charles, and for a long time did not
signs of life. Salvador said:

- Give up any idea of ??violence and murder.

Thinking about a possible punishment, I poisons the soul. Renunciation of the turmoil of politics
and no conspiracy, do not be a tool ambitions of princes.

Retire to our people, seeking peace in the repair you need and curative
medicine oblivion.

- Withdraw the people !...-- said Charles raising
his eyes to look in front of his brother -.

Why? "To feel again the horrible emptiness in my soul and I live alone? Agitation of these
civil wars and the desire to do something for a cause, making me
distracted me life bearable, but the loneliness of people Abbe and
saddens me so that if I could mourn, weep over the walls of my empty
house.

If only there you will find family any relatives, friends, former servants ... but no, no. My house
looks like a cemetery, and Puebla streets repeat my steps as echoes of the cemetery. The memories
are there, my only company, and memories kill me.

- The same thing happens to me - said Salvador -. With no family, alone, deprived of all love,
it seems I am condemned for my sins, to live on the ice. I also recently visited our town
and my wings have fallen from the heart to me a stranger in my hometown.

- I night chasing shadows do not know what came out of that black hamlet. All village dogs barked
at me a thousand radishes! with horrific fury.

- Also me. I found some people recognized me, but I looked with great suspicion, as if to remove
something.

- I was the same.

Then I knew how sad it is not having anyone in the world who rely
a penalty of heart, a joy, a hope.

- Me too.

And then I felt old, very old.

- Same as me.

And I said, 'if I had with me to any being, even a child would not go to the fields in search of
adventure, or reigned so much because I afanaría John or Peter. "

- As I've thought .... If something comforting in that dreary solitude was remembering things
childhood. And I saw as clear as it passed through the places we used to play, the proposed site
of the school, the churchyard and the bridge, and Uncle Roque the blacksmith ...!

- Well, I spent hours playing dead in my memory those days .... Many
Sometimes I remembered the poor Doña Fermina your mother!

It was so good! ... Do not be put to do half sitting next to a door that is on the right as
we entered the courtyard?

- Yes, yes.

- And I think I see the Father Respaldiza, telling jokes, and that Mrs. Perpetua lived over a hundred
years. I remember your mother entertained me much when I play with you and other little boys,
I got into the yard of your home. I hugged her, kissed me and put me on her knees, but I broke
loose from his arms to run and get into a lot of beams .... "There was a lot of beams in the
yard?

- Yes, yes.

- Did not your mother had many chickens?

- Yes.

- One day we argue for a chicken and gave us slaps you and me. Another day we took blood force
us to blows and were like two homos Ecce .... After ....

Navarro gave a big sigh, saying then:

- It seemed we were destined
to a terrible rivalry for life .... One day, when were already large
right, we returned to compose an iron ring at Uncle Roque, and found
to Genara coming out of school ....

This concluded the memories.

Like a light going off in the wind, closed Navarro mouth, lips tightly clenched as if to make
two single lip, pursed eyebrows making them like a knot in charge of containing and tighten all
skin front, and finally dumped her hand so hard on the armrest, that
nearly this good jump on chips invalid.

- It seems impossible - said
afterward - that sufficient number of years to become angels demons,
beasts and men .... You, hear ...-- said haughtily - never mind of
my talk ... I say this in case it has escaped me a phrase that indicates
available to forgive, blandurillas of heart or other such thing, unworthy
of my whole character and my honor.

She will always be for me to torment and evil temptation of my life,
and you ... a man whom I can not see or never see without very violent
antipathy.

Your appreciation of my rare frankly, you can not see me otherwise
.... Do you want to say it any clearer? Same thing burns my blood
now than before. I mistrust your word, mistrust your actions, I am
suspicious of our relationship, which may well be props invented for
you, mistrust of your regret, and how must tell you the harder to
win my will to win the sky, be well to leave me alone and do not come
here with no embassies hermanazgos sentimental because again I do
not have the blessed I have patience now: you know me, you know my
cool. This disease has taken me demon chains and shackles, but I will
heal with thousand radishes, heal, and I swear that no one will make
me suffer. Have you heard right? none shall hold me .... I spend jokes
pass atrocities in the world .... Do not look for me, then, and I
promise that I'll look. It's all I can do.

Thereupon she pointed
to the door. It was almost dark, and the dark room sacristanesca each
of the characters he watched his partner as his own shadow. Rose Salvador
from his seat and leave of the guerrilla with this laconic phrase:

-
Bye. Do not look for her. If ever you come to my door, depending on
how you answer her call.

-V-

Left, and when he went looking for
the door down the hall, that very dark as the cave Montesinos was,
he tripped over a bump, which, by the piercing scream that followed
the crash, women and women proved to be very sensitive.

- Brutísimo
wild .... Do not you have eyes in your head? - Cried a voice -. What
methods are these?

- Lady - Salvador said his hat, but seeing no
drop - you excuse me