 In Cadiz and
the port of Palos talk of the unknown countries as indisputable, but Mariners Andalusian, Galician
or Levantine, rude and humble people, they would have scared at the thought of going to court
to present its views. These finches, which were in bell land notability for having become
rich with travel to East and North Europe and were so convinced of the possibility as Columbus's
discoveries, have not managed to be heard by proposing large company without biblical prophecies
and texts classic, based solely on their experience of pilots.

- I am now - Ojeda stopped - in the Life of Columbus, written by his son, Don Fernando, the bastard
child, the child of love, there was a lady Cordoba when Columbus was almost elderly and maybe that's
why he was always regarded with special predilection ... At the age of fourteen years he accompanied
his father on the last voyage of discovery, the most painful of all. Accompanied her on long voyages,
whose monotony encouraged to speak, went with him hours hazard, which are hours of confession
might know better than anyone the darkness of your first life, before the celebrity, however,
to write the origins of Admiral shows a visible uncertainty, as if he possessed a secret that
fear made public. The same Ferdinand says his father, and he rose in fame, he had commitment "that
would less known and some of their origin and their country '... Recognizes that the admiral
was Genoese, because he said so, but it shows in his words a certain mystery.

- When Don Cristobal has assets - continued Maltrana - ordered to be allocated some amount to
maintain a family to be set in Genoa and take further women, so that always exist in the city
Colones. Would not you were relatives Liguria? ... It seems that he and his brothers are the
product of spontaneous generation, without ascending either side, which forces him to this transplant
from a branch of the family to make it Genoa was demonstrated that their nation ... In his will
divided his property among sons and brothers and makes several demands for ethnic or Genoese Genoese
... but all residents Portugal and many years away from their country of origin, merchants met
and discussed during his stay in Lisbon when he was married to the daughter of a Genoese, a
circumstance that may well have influenced the decision of their nationality. These demands
can guess that refunds are loans they made in their years of misery. So orders the give him
some money "to a Jew who lived at the door of the Jewish quarter of Lisbon, the only in all
the will contained no name. Relatives of Genoa no one even mentioned, and leaves nothing for residents
in Italy. Her memories of Genoese not go beyond the colony Genoese established in Portugal
... I inspire little confidence the statements of Admiral as their nationality ... and many other
things.

Ojeda greeted these words with a gesture of astonishment.

- I do
not mean - continued Isidro - the great man was knowingly lying, but
had the defect or the quality of all that, coming from below, reaching
a height of glory.

Managed to taste the events of the previous life disfigured the past according to their conveniences.
It was like some millionaires of this, which in its early stages of wealth proudly confess the misery
of his youth, but then when their children grow and Dynasty are beginning to be ashamed of their
origin and invent affluent relatives and capital illusory to those who started their first business.
The Admiral, in making his will, speaks bitterly of the kings devoted to his work only a million
or fairy maravedis and that "he had to spend the rest» ... And that was said at the time of his death
in a country where All had known him going after the court as a parasite applicant, without money
home, staying in convents, begging small grants to move from one city to another ... Fourteen
years had sufficed for so great forgetfulness.

- I am surprised how little they did to him during his life he called fellow own. In the collection
of his letters are some Genoese ambassador Oderigo complaining because
no answer there.

Send St. George Bank city of Genoa all papers deposited, and the lords of the Bank, only after some
time, give a response Oderigo indication, and this response, though nice, does not prove that the
Genoese government much enthusiasm for his exploits. It seems natural that, being a son of the
country had discovered a new way for East Asia, held this Genoese Signoria somehow. And yet,
the large commercial republic remains silent, ignoring Colón and only one of its officers will
write to thank him when he makes a valuable gift to the city he calls his homeland ... Columbus
was a foreigner I have it in doubt, test it, In addition, the certificate of naturalization that
the Catholic Monarchs gave his younger brother, Don Diego, he was a priest, that he might enjoy
in Castilla and income benefits. But in that document There is also something that lends itself
to mystery. Columbus Spanish naturalize the child for having born outside of Spain and a foreigner,
but does not say a word of his original nationality, the place of his birth, no mention of Genoa
for nothing ... What was unusual about the origin of these settlers, everything about his people always
tend to the confusion? ...

- In recent years - said Maltrana - Admiral was visible effort to appear as a foreigner, and
insists that both Ligurian origin. Next guessed after the lawsuit
had their descendants with the Crown.

Shrewd and cautious man, was indeed the failure exorbitant rights in exchange for their discoveries
had recognized the good Queen Elizabeth, generous and improvident as all women when they get
high ideality business ... You know that Columbus, for the commitment agreed to by kings, it
was incumbent tenth of all I discovered and what he might discover after those who followed
his way. It is absurd to imagine that a family, the family of the Colons, the wholly owned one-tenth
of the entire American continent and more than this, the tenth of Pacific islands, whose discovery
was the result of American ... Why King Ferdinand skilled businessman, always looked askance at the
dealings between the Admiral and the queen. It was not an enemy of the company, as some say,
but it seemed unwise to ease that his wife had agreed to all requests of the Navigator ...
And Columbus, in recent years, realizing the difficulties that his descendants would be absurd
to hold heredity, repeated in all documents were in Genoa, advised his children to put themselves
in contact with the government of the Republic, and is worth of praise and prayers for win their
favor and the powerful merchants of the Banco de San Jorge.

- And you, Maltrana, is also the Jew believe it?

- I do not think anything when there is only a lack of evidence and
inferences.

But saying so does not rely on a vacuum.

This extraordinary man had all the characters of ancient Hebrew religious fervor to fanaticism;
hobbies prophetic, ease of mixing God in money matters. To discover India, as he said in his letters
to the kings, "not me earned or mathematical reason, simply said Isaiah was fulfilled ...».

And what Isaiah said in one of his psalms was, in Columbus, before
finishing world were to convert all men, and that of Spain who would
teach them true religion.

In addition to Isaiah, appealed to the authority of Ezra, a Jew forgotten and several of his
writings contained letters from rabbis converts. Old man, wrote his famous Book of Prophecies,
mystical reverie in which he made calculations of the length of the earth, based on the biblical
prophets. And the result of his thoughts was to announce that the world only had one hundred and
fifty years of life, he had probably perished in 1656.

- You see it in him - said Ojeda - something fierce exaltation to
the ancient Hebrews, who always which were national, persecuted and
slaughtered by religious quarrels.

In our history, the most fearsome inquisitors were of Jewish origin, and who knows if a large
part Spanish fanaticism is not due to Hebrew blood was taken in the final formation of our
people ... The Jews of that time never lost sight of amid the business of mystical dreams, and
appreciated the gold as something divine. So was Columbus.

I had visions of God, like Jamaica, where God spoke to him in person,
and at the same time said: "Gold is most excellent, and with it, who
does, does what you want in the world, such is its power to cast the
souls into Paradise.

" Undertook his travels on behalf of Holy Trinity, saying that his work was "fire of the Holy
Spirit, then sent him to India to spread the gospel and saving souls, and then offered to
sell Native to which would give an income of forty million annually. Ships carrying two slaves
for sale in Spain and bade his brother Don Bartholomew had great careful with the goods and just
carry on what has for each one, "because have to look at all the conscience because there
is no better either, except to serve God, and all things of this world are nothing and God
is forever. "

- And - interrupted Maltrana - just read the description made by Las Casas and other historians
Admiral physical type: vermilion, cariluengo, aquiline nose, freckled,
peevish, eloquent and very hard work.

- Greed is notorious in him,
but were equally greedy all involved on their findings.

It is true that the others were frankly for gold, and Columbus, in addition gold, wanted to serve his
religion winning millions of souls. Nobody really thought these expeditions could be a scientific result.
Iban to India because he was rich; went in search of the land of
the Great Khan, ruler of China, concerned only with treasures.

Columbus sailed carrying a letter from the king to the Great Khan, written in Latin, Letters
accrediting you as Ambassador Extraordinary and just off the coast of Cuba (which he believed
the mainland) could understand the mimicry of the Indians who lived within a great monarch, showed
himself elated, guessing this chieftain humble emperor wealthy of Cathay.

Sent inland with his diplomatic papers to a Jewish convert in Murcia, which know some oriental
languages ??was with him as interpreter, and this messenger, after long march was only a tribal
chief in the shadow of its roof of leaves, surrounded by concubines tan.

- I admire - continued Ojeda - the childlike enthusiasm that came
to Columbus to death found everywhere making wealth and biblical memories.

The island is Spanish Ophir of Solomon with its golden mines, a large river must necessarily
come from the Paradise, a mountain is a pear, center of the world, and the nipple is the cradle
of mankind, the coast Golden Veragua is where he got the King David three thousand quintals of gold,
leaving them testament to his son.

There is a new land without singing Salve Regina "and other prose," as he says in his language
... And this pious dreamer gives lessons in cunning and betrayal his lieutenant, the knight
of Aragon to Mosen Pedro Marguerite Caonabo garment, bellicose cacique, and recommends to
send emissaries to good words until it comes to visit. "And as for being an Indian walking naked
- tells you more or less - and if they would flee difficult to have a hand, give her a shirt
and vestídsela course, and a hood, and a belt where you can have and will not let you go. "

Passed
before the two friends, very upright, with the book under his arm, the American lady, which
until then had been reading in his chair. Fernando struck several times by up the volume, clear
eyes fixed on him, and that when he met with his returning to the pages.

- Tea time - said Maltrana -. These English the guess with an accuracy clockwork ... If you like,
do not go down until later. Must be filled winter garden.

They lit cigarettes and left the two with closed eyes staring at the spiral of smoke that were
developed on the blue background.

- Another lie that irritates me
- Isidro said a few times - is that of persecution ignorance of the
Church was suffering the Admiral.

I have nothing to do with the Church but I recognize that this invention is one of the greatest
folly, if not greater, than We can point our account those contained
in the union of the wicked.

The vulgar elsewhere that have a pattern made, always the same things in Spain, thought Columbus
having discovered a new world I was not aware the God of the Bible,
necessarily had to chase the people of the Church with deadly hatred.

There are even pictures celebrity represent the so-called Congress of Salamanca "with highly
placed bishops miter and crosier (something and the bishop of the African choir) that discuss geography
and cry anathema against wicked away from him. And Columbus is shown arrogant and serene,
like a tenor who knows advance that will triumph in the last act ...

Ojeda river Maltrana words.

- Imagine - he continued - the jump that gave the author of The Prophecies's friend Isaiah and Ezra,
by coming up with the idea that there could be a new unknown world by the God of Genesis, and
whose inhabitants did not come from Adam and Eve, or the dispersion of the sons of Noah. At
least, she think the subject of a diabolical hallucination, and daring
to articulate his thoughts, he had not suffered greater punishment
than imprisonment by reason of insanity ... But Columbus only spoke
of going to the old world known for the way the West, and this there
was nothing heretical, also grounding it in classical authors and
Church Fathers.

There was another conference that a royal commission dispute with
the teachers of the University Salamanca, and in this scientific dispute,
held in the convent of San Esteban, faculty was contrary to the discoverer,
while Dominicans and other religious monks accepted plans as credible.

This is understandable. The monks looked to Columbus himself as a his close friend, and were
also priests of popular life, used to contact people Coast who spoke frequently of new land.
Science was the only one opposed to projects of the discoverer, as we have seen so often oppose
any innovation ...

Maltrana silent as to reflect better, then added:

- I do not why I make fun of the professors of Salamanca and consider them ignorant. Knew what could
be known in his time and defending their knowledge. A child of today knows more than can laugh at themselves
and their science, but need to know how to laugh at the XXV century school of scholars who now
venerate. No one has kept an extract of this dispute Salamanca only know that the professors
refused to Columbus in a few years could come and go, as claimed, from Spain to the east coast of Asia.
And in this they were right: they were right. They had a better idea of ??the size of Asia and
the size of the earth, gave Unknown Ocean similar to a space occupied
by the Atlantic and Pacific together and were by immense and impassable
for navigation aids at the time.

But poor scholars of Salamanca, as well as Columbus, unaware of the
existence of America, and America tired of living in the mystery,
stepped out of the sailor, who died ignoring.

Y was that they had a notion of land closest to the truth were to History as some donkeys, and
visionary plans based on "the world is boy they say, and six parts of it are lean and one with
water ", appears as a scholar enshrined in the win ...

- That's right - said Ojeda -. One must imagine for a moment that America had not existed, deleting
in the New World scenario, and see Columbus, who believed the earth one-third smaller and the
coasts of Asia to about seven hundred leagues from the Canaries, rushing to their boats Ocean
front, having to sail around the Atlantic and the Pacific to meet with the islands of Japan
or the coast of China.

- An absurd! - Interrupted Maltrana -. An impossibility, considering what they were the ships,
their spare little food and the need to rest in appropriate scales. Had perished by insisting
on the company, or what is almost certainly would have become. To go only to the West Indies,
Columbus himself felt faint his will on the first trip more than once, it is not surprising, since
the stronger faith wavers to be plunged into the unknown.

When I had sailed seven hundred leagues, he began to think Asia would be concern if the farther than
he thought, and it was then the largest Pinzón, Martín Alonso the iron, with the stubbornness
of the strong men who expect to leave a misstep running over However, since his ship was shouting:
"Forward, forward!".

- There you have another hoax, Isidro friend: the alleged bad faith of the discoverer Pinzón;
their managements to arouse the people, the Spanish crews attempt to drive the Admiral water,
then return to their country within three days to concedieton die if not found land ...

- What a stupid caption! - Said Maltrana -. The common people will see the historical place to your
liking, as heroes serialized novel that face all sorts of pitfalls for triumph at last his innocence
in the last chapter. The performance of a traitor, a character grim and fatal, is necessary for
a contrast effect to highlight the profile magnanimous greatness of character. And in this
novel Colombia, the traitor is the honest Martín Alonso, who put
it all on the company's discovery to get nothing and lose over life.

You know the real story. When Columbus, tramp of uncertain nationality, Palos walked by not knowing
what to do. Pinzon heard him and encouraged him with his old reports Ocean Navigator convinced
of the existence of new lands.

The king granted his license to the adventurer to the first trip, but this is not ahead implementation.
The royal treasury had fought with great effort a million maravedis from a census of Valencia,
but the amount was insufficient. Columbus had a order for the port of Palos provide him with ships,
but no one obeyed. In those days of nationality just formed and difficult communications, the
power of monarchs was true only where they were present. The royal orders when went away, and
had just not met. Columbus, mandated by the monarchs, tried to enlist people, but the sailors
were forcibly recruited disbanded and fled. Such was her despair, he even thought that man the ships
with men drawn from the prisons.

And in this trouble, when he saw his next company to fail, Martín Alonso Pinzón, the rich Palos, the
owner, he could rest forever the hardships of the ocean, offered with handsome start to get
interested in the expedition and adventure in her part of his property half of what had been
the monarch. He sought and prepared good boats and "put table "in the language of the time,
to enlist sailors, providing confidence to who would make the trip and announcing that he would
too. That was enough for him to come the best people of the coast and all the preparations is
quickly ...

- We are the first travel story written by the admiral, his log book,
that can not be more monotonous.

Favorable wind, good sea, hints of earth, timber float, birds singing in the masts of the ships
as announcing the proximity of invisible costs. But this was a little interesting background
for the hero, and many years after his death, some historians tiding of tragic emotion to his
stories, I invented the uprising of the crews, frightened, wanted to return and Admiral threat
to throw the ground water if not discovered within three days. And Finch plays in all this
the role of a traitor cautious, which promotes the ridiculous fears a crew accustomed to sailing
more random ... In the story of his journey, the Admiral I was suspicious
in nature and given to see treachery and traps everywhere, it says
a word of attempts to revolt, and several times, during the voyage,
his ship approaches to Martin Alonso, calls, engage in friendly conversation
from the bridge, and sent to string Toscanelli the famous letter to
clarify their doubts.

- Columbus - Ojeda said - was the most knowledgeable
scientists who his partner the sea Sticks, but he acknowledged in
more expertise in the art of navigation, the handling of vessels and
men ... There was indeed a period of three days, but this time did
not get it Admiral sailors, but it was he who gave it to Finch, who
sought to change course.

We noticed on both sides of the vessels ground signals, but the Admiral continued always in the
same direction, believing himself to be among the islands of Zipangu, which is in the archipelago
Japanese. "Everything would be round the corner." He wanted to get ashore as soon as possible,
the Empire of Cathay, to China, to visit the Great Khan, presented his credentials and make gold
collection. But Martin Alonso, less naive, considered necessary to touch as soon as possible some
land, and Mr. Christopher finally consent to change course, provided that if in three days
were not return to the original cost ...

And just follow the path of Finch, there is the small Caribbean island, the first stage of the great
discovery, which lasts more than a century later ... Perhaps no one did so much for the glory
of Columbus and his partner to change course. Imagine if the Admiral, in his haste see the Great
Khan, follows the first direction and ends up in the current costs of States Together. Insurance
does not return, and the world is without news of his discovery.

- Yes, it does not return - said Ojeda -. It is very likely, almost certain. For small issue
which amounted altogether some ninety men, and had no real war preparations was a kind tackling
the paradise islands of the Caribbean Sea, with its population meek, timid human herds which hunted
their food the cannibals of the other islands. If the three boats with their handful of crew members
are, at landfall, with ferocious Indians of North America or the warlike Aztecs of Mexico, surely
not again ... And that's Columbus!

- Only at the end of the trip - continued Maltrana - Admiral speaks of his companion, with some
resentment. When sailing along the coasts of Cuba had bad weather, and Columbus took refuge
with his ship in a shelter of the coast, while the other sailor more
daring and confident in his ability, went ahead.

Were separated a few days and this was enough to suspect that Columbus Martín Alonso Indians
had much gold news and would seek its own, as a faithless friend.