 And with this easement were in favor Inca,
who say they do not anger them, before they send them to provide maintenance and other things,
and sent it to their land, others say that he killed them all without any escape. The first
thing I think, but as one and the other did not say I know more about
these Indians.

Finish this, they say that in many parts came to offer the service of the Inca, and received grace
to all who came, and he left it to return to Cuzco, and found on
the road made many quarters, and that most parties had down the slopes
the natives, and had reached villages on the plain as ordered and
ordered.

Arrived at Cuzco, he was received his style with great pomp, and made great feasts. The commanded by
captains who had gone to war again with the Collao, had gone to Chucuito, and had some battles
in parts of the province, and out victors sujet치banlo all the dominion of the Inca, and was
Condesuyo do the same. And it was very powerful and everywhere flocked lords and masters to serve
him with the rich men of the people, and paid tribute with large order, and to other personal services,
but all with great concert and justice. When they came to speak, were lightly loaded; mir치vanle little
face, when he spoke, who heard him trembling in fear or something else, rarely went out in public, and
in war was always the front, would not allow anyone, without his command, had jewelry or settlement
and wandered about in litters, in short, this was the one who paved
the way for the government as excellent The Incas had.

After what has been eScript, dried apricots have that is so powerful as the king Inca, sent
to call people, because I wanted to start another war more important than the past, and to fulfill
its mandate, attended by many leading to large numbers of people armed with weapons they use,
they are deep, axes, clubs, Aillas, darts and spears few. As assembled, he ordered them treats
and parties, and to brighten every day left with a new suit or dress, as it had the nation that
wanted to honor that day, and last, It became another, according as it had those who were called
to treat and drunkenness. With this holg치banse much as here you can encarescer. When they made these
great dances, surrounded the square of Cuzco, a chain of gold that had been ordered to be taxed
as much the regions, as large as in the back I have said, and other
major packages and greatness antiquities.

And as the days hobiesen loose paresci칩 them to Inca Yupanqui, told them how I wanted they were
to the Huancas, and to the Yauyos [161], their neighbors, and strive
for bringing [162] in his friendship and service without war, and
when not, that giving it, it should give knack of overcoming and force
them to. They all replied they would do what he commanded with great
determination