 One day his uncle sent him home from the wealthy merchant
with instructions to ask if I could give you a letter on Manila. Don Rosendo was not at his
desk, he was on the ground floor of the house, and how the business was urgent, Gonzalo decided to
climb. The maid who opened was in a hurry.

- Come in, Don Gonzalo, Miss Cecilia will tell you where the Lord.

He entered a room in disarray, with piles of clothes on the floor and a table in the center where
the first daughter of the lords of Belinchón was aplanchado a shirt dress with no appropriate
to their category. A vestidillo frayed and a handkerchief tied around
the waist as the artisans; slippers on his feet quite used.

Did not blush because the young man found in that herding or as low
occupancy, and cried like many others would do in your case:

- Jesus,
how I found you! - Bringing his hands to the hair and throat.

Not so.

A moment suspended their work, smiled sweetly and waited for the
young speak.

- Good afternoon - he said, turning red.

- Good afternoon,
Gonzalo - she replied.

- Can you see your dad?

- I do not know if
you are at home.

I'll see - said the young, leaving the iron on the table and passing ahead of him.

When they had gone a bit, he turned to ask:

- Does your guy is good?

- Yes, ma'am, yes ... I mean, no ... For some days not getting out
of bed ... Has a bad cold.

- Do not be a thing of care?

- I think
not, ma'am.

The young man went on his way smiling. It amused him to call her Mrs. Gonzalo having no met sixteen
years and counting more than twenty. Both, without having spoken "large" became known as if
they were brothers. They met every day in the street, on the promenade, in theater, in church.
"From small" Cecilia recalled one afternoon in the pilgrimage giraldilla Elorrio dancing with
other girls her age, came to a rogue hinder them, pulling hair from the outside, pushing hard
and getting in the ring shouting to them missing a beat. Gonzalo, who was a big boy of thirteen
years, seeing coarseness that ugly, came to his aid, and will kick, punch comes one soplamocos
and puñada to another in an instant dispersal got three or four lads rude. The eyes of the tiny
dancers watched him with admiration. In those hearts female was five to ten years ever recorded
for not erase a feeling of gratitude to the heroic young man. Again, years later, a day of San
Juan, Gonzalo gave her sloop and her family to walk by the sea as the boats and boats were
scarce in such occasion. But none of these circumstances engendered the treatment of them. If
found very front, Gonzalo used to take his hat, otherwise passed by or not the saw, despite knowledge,
if not close friendship, which his uncle had with Mr. Belinchón.