 

(Siddhartha Gopa kisses in silence. Gopa shakes in his arms and kisses him too. Sidarta it is
clear and runs smoothly. As soon disappears Siddhartha, Gopa faint.)

TABLE II.

Follows the scene in the city of Capilavastu: 593 years before Christ.

It is daytime. The same chamber of the thalamus.

GOPA and PRATYAPATI.

PRATYAPATI .-- I tell you, even if it takes you. No, you do not love him, because he was in your
hand to stop him and let him go.

GOPA .-- He is my master, I, your servant. No arrest was in my hand. His will is strong and above
all my praise, but even I can stop him, he would not have stopped.

PRATYAPATI .-- Why? Do you believe in your doctrine?

GOPA .-- I believe in the magnanimous impulse moves him, and that is enough: I believe in your sweet
compassion for all beings, in their love to men who look like brothers, without distinction
caste, and their strong desire to teach the path of righteousness and peace. Not only I believe
in one of the most essential thing he says, and if this doubt, or rather, if this refuse, is how
much I love him. How do I have to believe in our incurable misery in our inconsolable grief,
and that the activity of the mind is a gift fatal when, at the height
of my bitterness, abandoned by him forever, still worth remembering
that reached the and honor be yours obtained in spite of all the neglect
that leave me?

How do I to believe that life is a bad, when I see Columbro yours,
that has to be a source of many real?

What I appreciate in a short life when the infinite price of his life enough to rescue the human
race? How am I to call bienhadada unhappy and, if the fruit their love lives in our child, if
the glory of his name I will circle of brilliance immortal and if the memory that has been mine,
that I have had my plants, idolaters, enraptured in contemplation of my beauty, a couple who flatters
my pride, is an inexhaustible source of comfort to my soul?

PRATYAPATY .-- There is deep pain that is so easily comforted. No: you do not love him.

GOPA .-- Whoever does not love or understand love you, Pratyapati. Because I love him in the
same pain I find comfort, not just comfort, but pleasure and glory. And while the pain is more
intense is the most pleasant sweetness.

Suffer for him, mourn for him, see him convicted of horrible loneliness and premature widowhood,
is holy sacrifice I make for the sake of love and contains a virtue
beatific. You're more in love with his doctrine of his person. I love
him, and partly waste doctrine. For the love of his waste. Don is
not fatal in light of my understanding, shines his image as it is
not fatal gift my immortal memory, and that his memory lives on it.
Shame on the rest of the species he seeks and desires, and I prefer
the torment Finally, as long as I live in the way of a love that I
had. Under pressure from my pain give my love her more balsamic aroma
intoxicates the soul, such as herbs and smell better flowers of the
forest when the villain when passing offense and stepped on.

PRATYAPATY
.-- Forgive me, oh love women! Well I assumed you loved him but wanted
to measure the power of your love