 

Lazarus felt that this and mortifications were not martyrs, but also said that it was not living
in the world and their struggles, and that being good few people around him could not be detestable
life. How different was offered the show the world that began a step beyond those walls respected!
True that everything was behind closed doors rest and holiness, but how many horrors and sorrows
awaited him to put the plant in that society where every day is a struggle and every hour a
wound! It was the poor guy plans for the future, and judging life as he had painted it, thinking
it was all evils, sorrows and misfortunes, was preparing to enter her anxious, fearful, like inexperienced
soldier soon to hear the first step attack touched by the horns of
his battalion.

Tratábale his uncle graciously, respect or adulation of the prelate, did the same thing those
around him, and thanks to their protection Lazarus entered the race to which he had designed, shielded
from the hardships, fraught with the future fortunes, and soul full of foreboding. He had painted his mission
so that, impressed the imagination, saw in the priesthood generous apostolate of the whole idea.
But despite this, when alone with his prayer book under his arm, he looked across the wide corridors
or sit under the shade of the garden, it seemed that in his soul seethed and poked their eyes vague
fears for his future life and doubts about the fate that was reserved. The holy house that
was lived, in his view, a port of refuge from the infernal wave of human malice. For all that his
books devoted advised him to flee, came to the knowledge of how certain words should be the warning
him that worldly dangers, and by the endless and tiring excitation to virtue, could appreciate
how deep and frequent the depths sin. As I was considering the temptations that might surround
him, the risks would have to anticipate and avoid evil, intelligence, watching with delight the
prospect of days of horrible but holy and glorious struggle, preparation for immortality.