 After a short time
consulting with his penitent, pious not only matters but also the home; was his spiritual advisor
and temporary. The devout young pervaded all their thoughts, times before made accurately in
his brain.

- Father, today you are in a bad mood is because it could not say Mass at the altar of the Conception
as usual .-- you have dark circles, it is seen that has spent the entire night in prayer .-- I
know why said later Sunday Mass: Dona Eloisa expected to arrive .--
That collar pinches you very much.

Are you uncomfortable. You want me to fix it? ...

Their lives were wantonly pervading. Not only had time to talk about all day in the confessional,
but by afternoon were in the church, the rosary, and night too often at home of Ms Eloisa. In addition,
from time to time, for any reason pious, as a novena, a meeting of the guild, etc., she went to
the rectory to inquire, always though it cost him an effort, she had a great fear of D. Miguel.
Had got in his head that he looked at her evil eye, which he despised.

And perhaps he was right to guess.

This confidence came to be too excessive at times. At least I thought Fr Gil. Obdulia be authorized
from time to time some relatives who clashed, and sometimes momentarily came to disturb the
clarity of his consciousness. One day he spoke of his troubles economic. The father gave him
some money for household expenses, and as he was vice charity, giving alms to spray and pray,
had contracted debts which the mortified; above all was a shopkeeper who was twenty dollars,
which bothered him at all times and threatened to tell his dad. Could not he provide for a short
time this amount? The cleric also had them, but they are asked to sponsor and handed flushed.
She shamelessly accepted them as a matter of course. Another day took him to church Groom
packet of letters she had for the read. Later he asked the scapular necks, and both urged and
argued such pretexts, which concluded by get it. The next day he confessed, smiling, that was not
to put it to a friend who had just died, but to bring her on the chest. These things hurt and
disturbed vaguely young priest. The little jokes which Blessed be allowed to speak also exceeded
sometimes desirable ranges. One day he said suddenly:

- Do you know what I'm thinking, father?

The angel who comes often to get the hand on the head's eyes are very similar to yours.

And burst out laughing as he said. The cleric also laughed, blushing. Then it was serious and
moody.

A strange incident, which shocked the town, came in an indirect way to further strengthen and
disturb their relationship to P. Gil. One night he woke up terrified by the noise of a detonation
inside the house. Jumped up and ran to the room D. Miguel, where he figured he had come. To reach
it froze in terror at the scene which appeared in sight. A man rolled in the middle of the room
in a pool of blood, while D. Michael, standing on the bed, waving
a pistol shouting triumphant smile fierce - I dropped one!

I dropped one! - The dim light of a candle lit lying on the floor that fateful scene.

The case had been that, being the priest in bed, a man had entered her bedroom, had awakened and
summoned him to give you the money. D. Miguel threw undeterred hand to the vest, took the key and threw
it into the middle of the room. Then, as the thief picked it up, took one of the guns under
the bed and had shot him leaving tended. The bullet had penetrated
through the kidneys.

The toilet, dominating his fright, quick to give spiritual aid. It only took three hours to
expire.

The event is said a lot and very different way in the village. Some approved of the conduct the
cure. Was entitled to defend itself from an outlaw that God knows what would after stealing it. Others,
again, sharply censured. A priest can not work like others in this case. Is a minister of Jesus
Christ and must always act with charity even in self-defense. Fr Gil was deeply shocked, but
kept silent. A priest, before his hands bloodied, was not only to be robbed, but to kill. Our
Lord had taught so when St. Peter cut the ear of the soldier who
came to arrest him.

Obdulia transpired the feelings that agitated him and advised him to leave the rectory and settled
in another house.

- You can no longer live there after what happened, Father. The scare has led been very strong,
and every day has to be renewed the impression viewing the site.

This was not exactly what he meant, but a truly Christian man virtuous living must suffer many things
beside who had just violent death a fellow. But if he did not say with words, was left to guess
at the seriousness and sadness of their continent. Fr Gil longed for a long time otherwise. The
company's pastor I was upset, as we know. Now, after the murder (as he described their conscience)
it had become unbearable. D. Michael had incurred the censure of the Church, he withdrew licenses
for confession and say Mass: the rehabilitation would arrive a season.

Taking advantage of those moments of terrible weakness of the priest, with the help of her
godmother rented a house not far from the church and moved to it. A former Ms Eloisa maid came
to serve and be his housekeeper.

Freed from fear of the pastor, Obdulia began to frequent the new home of Excuses carry on high
surveillance. Enterábase of linen, robes of state, of the foods that most pleased the father,
of the peculiarities of his bed. Sometimes came to help the ironing board ironing or wearing
for those things at home more sensitive as the dawns and rochets, recosía stockings that were
broken, stains removed cassocks, etc.. These were ordinary tasks. But also engaged in some work
thinner, in embroidering a little master, or a body or any other article of clothing priesthood.
Ms Josefa, the housekeeper, not willingly accepted the protectorate, but As yet there was rooted
deep in the house and noted the close friendship that Miss his master had not dared to protest.
Murmur contented with her when went to visit his old lady and call voyeuristic and silly. Later
he was champing will brake even worse and ended by bolt, as we shall see. Neither Fr Gil was calm
and happy atmosphere in the attentions of affection and veneration in which the young man was
involved. As much as the living professed admiration and took into account his advice, I felt
a vague discomfort every time he saw her taking care of material care of his person. It seemed
to him that this was to lower the character of that spiritual friendship, trained and supported
to improve their souls, to help on the way of perfection. I had heard nothing from Santa Teresa
to go over the middle of San Juan de la Cruz. Also, do not really understand the contempt
of the flesh, so well practiced she, with the amenities that surround you intended. Why have
been so severe for and so tender it for him?

Perchance, allowed him so weak and cowardly that he could not live without such care?

Fr Gil pondered this, leaning on the railing of a corridor to his room was lattice above the
sea. The crimson sun was through any veil, wrapped in a warm light wave and red the village
and the bay. The canvas of rock that stood there in front closes its mass great on the water,
casting and a wide area of ??shade. And that blackness between the priest's eyes perceive the glare
of the waves, showing and off at short intervals its whiteness. The pier was deserted, even when
the time was not the return of the boats. The quechemarines pataches and nodded gently, tired
of their inaction. A gull flying concentric circles with their wings touching the water surface.
The soft distant murmur of the waves filled the room asleep a murmur. The small cove only lived mobile
game of light that bathed the bloody clarity would slowly withdraw
behind the rocks.

So absorbed was he that Ms Josefa needed to call three times from
the door to get that return.

- What?

- A lady is downstairs asking
for you.

He says he needs to talk at once.

- A lady? "- Said the P. Gil opening his eyes .-- Will Miss Obdulia.

- No, sir, not that - said he loves doing with her lips a gesture of disdain .-- Mrs. that looks
down is much more beautiful and elegant.

- Did not you know? - Asked
somewhat shortened by the intention that warned of the words Ms Josefa.

-
No, sir, is an outsider.

- Well let you go.

It took a few seconds to display a beautiful young as twenty-four, blonde, face very white and
delicate features, dressed elegantly pilgrim. In his life he had seen Fr Gil, even in Lancia,
a lady so distinguished. His dress was simple, travel, but so original and cutting with such
luxury and attention to detail, was put to immediately see the high quality of the individual. It gave
off a soft scent that came to hurt his nose so he stepped into the room. Miron with surprise,
astonishment became the see that the lady moved resolutely to him, and without a word dropped
to his knees at his feet sobbing.

- Lady ... God ... you get up! - told stunned.

The lady did not budge.

- Lady, get you - repeated again taking her gently by the arm.

The silent stranger stood up and dropped into a chair, raised his
hat candle covering his eyes and wiped with a handkerchief.

Fr Gil, standing before her, waiting to explain.

And showed no signs of it, before covering her face increasingly ventured to say:

- Madam, I would like to know how I can serve ...

Still took a moment
to respond.

Finally he said, without removing the tissue of the eye:

- I am the wife of D. Alvaro Montesinos.

The toilet took a step back involuntarily.

How? "This lady was despicable slut had the misfortune of D. Alvaro of who her godmother Ms
Eloisa always spoke with horror? For it knew the sad story of that marriage. The heir to the house
of Montesinos was in love like crazy a young man of good family, but without money, one of those
girls who are usually seen in Madrid in all theaters and all Sarah to hunt for a rich husband.
Be even with Montesinos, Joaquin Dominguez (that was his name) gave cordelejo a season, perhaps
hoping that came with the same wealth and better shape, because the firstborn of Peñascosa was,
indeed, the most feeble and miserable that could be. When they did not arrive, resolviose one
day to fall in love with him and showed it in a way that left no room for doubt. "All the elegant
Madrid" recalled a cute blonde paid to turn first pair of theater Real, who spent the night
chatting with a skinny, pale gentleman sitting in the row back, that the Comedy Theatre and the
Apollo did not detract top Twins from his audience, taking him on the ride trailer del Retiro,
and up in the morning when she went shopping, she looked to him, escorted by his mother. Entirely
convinced love, the gentleman asked her to marry, and obtained not without some work, because
the mother Costolo many tears give that jewel, which was the joy of the house. In the first D.
spent four months Álvaro income throughout the year. Joachimite wanted
car and box in theaters, and gave meetings and soirees.

But she was so beautiful and her husband was so happy, frantic with love professed that he had
not refused the heart and blood if one day the request after a long loving kiss, pressed,
spasmodic, such as those gave him when he had to ask for a diamond rivière sociable or full suspension.

At
six months just fancied the young wife to travel to Europe, a long trip was to last a year
or more, to visit all of France, Italy, then England go, go to Germany and run to St. Petersburg.
The lover Montesinos placed no obstacles in this desire, but should put them. We needed a respectable
capital to do it, watch the comforts and trappings that Joaquin intended travel. Loan requested
some of 30,000 farms went out hard and Madrid.

In Hendaye at the inn were railroad Federico Torres drinking chocolate,
a half-witted son of a minister Madrid Court Accounts.

A Joaquin had always been very unfriendly, not knowing why.

- Where
will this puppet? - Asked softly, after his greeting coldly match.

Montesinos shrugged indifferently.

- What will you fight this guy! I find it fine and pleasant.

- What horror - she said laughing.

Pau went to see him at the station, and no longer saw him more. In Marseille thought marriage stop four
or five days, but the third, coming D. Álvaro station fix the subject of sleeping-car for
the next day, to his surprise he found his wife not at home. The surprise became all at once
astonished to see the horrible mess of the room. The big Saratoga trunk of his wife was gone.
There were different items of clothing by soil. The servants told him that the woman had been
transporting the chest after leaving He double-billing for small, he said. Then came out and had
not returned. Montesinos, stunned, horrified by the idea that crossed by the brain, opened
with a hand convulsively Secret of the chest where they kept the
money.

Not a penny was there already. Understanding of once all his misfortune, fell to the ground as
if struck by lightning.

It was several days between life and death.

When she regained consciousness, he telegraphed to his brother D. Martin which immediately appeared
and took him to Peñascosa. He soon became known that Joaquin Federico had escaped with Torres, and traveling
merrily around Europe with the money the gentleman.

This was the woman before the P. Gil.

After that first movement of repulsion, was rebuilt and said:

- Serénese you a little lady, and tell me how I can promote it.

- I just returned from Madrid - articulated with the lady working
- and I headed home to my husband with whom I fought long ago ...
Wanted to reconcile with him ... to conclude that separation so ugly
and so outrageous ... An old servant who has ... A brute!

... would not let me see ... grabbed my arm ... I threw to home to shove ... Yes, shoving!

Here
the woman burst into tears again and again covered her face with her handkerchief.

The priest waited to continue, but seeing that he did not, took the
floor again.

- I'm sorry this incident, Mrs. ... But I do not think
there is cause for such despair.

The offenses that do not feel forgiven.

Pardon this poor servant who has done without knowing I did, and
tell me what I can do in your gift.

Dry eyes unfaithful wife. Again and again moisten dry.

- As I have said here at the inn, you're the only person who visits my husband ... I beg, for the
most sacred, and that you are his friend, to intervene to end our
separation.

I want it long ago with anxiety ... I confess that I was not good for he ...

- Yes, yes, I know everything - impatiently interrupted the cleric.

The lady was highly colored.

- I confess that I have offended seriously ... It was a moment of blindness ... a temptation demon
... But I've always wanted ... and I love him ... I have no objection to humiliate to ask forgiveness
on his knees ... You see, father, if you do not humiliate me like no ... I am appalled at the idea
of ??not getting his forgiveness, dying away from him alone, damn! Oh, future so awful! ... If
anything I have sinned, believe me I have suffered much in recent
times ...

- Lady, and can you understand if I would join a satisfaction
in marriage dissolved ... the same thing to you than anyone else.

My mission is to preach harmony between men and die for it if necessary. Even without asking me
I have the duty, my responsibility, to strive in this parish reconciliation
among quarreling marriage ... But this case is sensitive.

Apart from the extremely serious offense that you have inflicted on her husband, the scandal that
accompanied it, of those who followed, all of which make it extremely
difficult reconciliation apart that, again, there is another major
difficulty.

And is that your husband is out of the Church Catholic. I have no other influence on him than
he can give a superficial friendship.

None of reasoning to which I could appeal as a priest has power over his mind. On the contrary,
given their ideas, it is possible that served to embravecerle more, or at least derision ...

-
Yes, yes - the lady interrupted shrilly, malevolent, - my husband has always been a wicked,
an atheist outrageous.

- Lady, is of little use to believe if you act as if no thought -
said severely toilets, who had wounded the aggressive tone of the
lady, so contrary to humility before.

To be turned red and dropped his eyes back to affect a great contrition.

Fr Gil continued:

- Anyway, as a Christian and a priest, I am willing to do all they
can my power to get what you want.

I doubt much of the success of my speech ... I know I also expose
you to be cast as the house, but I do not care.

Keep my duty, and if you do not get anything, I will be at least the satisfaction of having fulfilled
...

He remained thoughtful for a moment, while the lady kept on him a look intense and anxious. Then, as
if speaking to himself rather than with her, continued:

- The address is now home to D. Alvaro has drawbacks. The common people are curious ... Came
the gossip ... after the scandal ... I think we should wait a while to concluded dark, or better
yet, that I was ahead to test the matter ...

- No! No! - Exclaimed the lady .-- will not prevent you. Would refuse to receive me. It is necessary
to take him suddenly, take the first movement of his heart that is generous. Then, when reflects,
it is bad, mocking ...

- As you wish. So we will wait.

But the moment of pronouncing the word took over the inconvenience
of staying much time alone with a woman, a little embarrassed and
said:

- You will allow me to leave her alone while a few moments
... I'm with you shortly.

Instead of being with her, sent her love
to accompany her. Only when the light was extinguished completely
up again with hat in hand, prepared to leave. The wife of D. Álvaro,
so I saw this trace, rose from his chair.

He had already closed the
night. Seafarers had retired to their houses or taverns. In the long,
winding street a few passers-circular dial. The toilet and wife Montesinos
walked a while in silence towards the Field of fainting. Approaching
he both felt agitated, fearful. Both to calm down a bit as a precaution,
paused a moment, and getting into the hollow of a door, whispered
with animation. Fr Gil insisted on his idea first entered the house
and explore the spirit of D. Álvaro: afraid of a scandal. The lady
was opposed by heat, convinced beyond all doubt that her husband would
refuse to receive it at all, and take precautions to avoid the pisase
floor of his house. The more embedded in the discussion were of another
door opening near a shadow came close, high, and approached them quickly.

-
Good evening, Father, good night