 

He looked anxiously upward, was quick to fix it and became very red.

- Are you hurt? - Cecilia asked with interest.

- Ca! No, ma'am ... On the contrary ... Wow, for a little break!

And he withdrew more and more confused.

Hallab our youth at that point and that time when men fall in love with a broom. The age of love
for him had been delayed a bit. This usually happens in all in those who tyrannize muscle nerves.
So Miss Belinchón, although nothing linda, suddenly awakened in him a certain sympathy that
is easy to transmute into a passion. And result of that brief interview, Gonzalo happened since
then occasionally ahead without the house of lords Belinchón looking from the corner of eye
the balconies, cared more for the dressing of the suit and the person, went to Mass on Sundays
ten San Andres, where Dona Paula and her children heard.

In the theater used to guide the sly Live looks and occasionally ventured to drop a sombrerazo.
But as did he blushed and looked scared everywhere, shaking that this nascent sense of his soul
was discovered.

Gonzalo Innocent! Long before he would give a full account of this inclination, the village
whole knew. Nothing can be hidden, especially in what touches sex relationships sex, in the
eyes of the gossips dowsers a small town neighborhood. And not only known, but so was given
as a marriage in the more or less distant. Passed months, however, and that is not a step forward.
The testimonies given by Gonzalo his love remained the same. Most of the days were reduced to
happen next eating in front of the house of a wealthy merchant, to go to the casino. Cecilia
used to be sewing behind glass.

His hat, smile, go ahead, then the pool, and even another day. Don Melchor was charged twice
more errands for Don Rosendo, but had the good lucky to find him always in the office. We say
good luck, because Gonzalo trembled before the idea of ??going up to the house and tripped over
Cecilia.

Had already served twenty years. The idea of ??becoming an industrial engineer and engaging in something
useful, occasionally returning to his spirit in the midst of lazy life. Comrade which turned
from a military academy, the conversation with a British engineer, the phrase of contempt
in the casino I heard about that had no career, despertábanle Suddenly
the desire.

Finally, one day he told his uncle that if he gave permission was going to England to study something
and see the world.

As Don Melchor nothing could be opposed to this just and laudable purpose, Gonzalo ran a few
days after the houses of relatives and friends, where for years that not set foot, to say goodbye,
and a peaceful and beautiful late spring embarked Watch round the brig bound for Britain.

Do you remember Cecilia? We do not know. In temperaments like our youth, fire of the passions
takes time to turn, although in the end cause havoc.

Three years passed. He finished the race engineer who is short and practice in England and was determined
to visit the main factories in this country and France and Germany. In the studying long lasting
memory of Cecilia asaltábale from time to time, without cause, of course, very lively emotion.
Back in the spring when the blood flows more strongly veins and Mother Nature with the green
of the fields, the vivid colors flowers, the play of light, warm balmy air, and above all, through
their interpreters loyal, birds, invites us to consent in any way that the human species extinguished,
Gonzalo thought of marriage. And if this idea arose in his mind, presentábasele suddenly made flesh
in the first child of the lords of Belinchón: - "Come in, Gonzalo; Dad is waiting. "" Do you
hurt? "- was played again in his ears the words and affectionate tone with which they were
delivered up in their heart a spark of virgin sympathy. The girl was not beautiful, but her eyes
do, especially in her appeal revelábase sex in the air modest and
simple, the tone of voice, exquisite delicacy, entirely female manners.
"I hate to marry her" thought with a sigh; because he judged it impossible
to dare to tell it not to miss any single word love. Until then I
did not know of such passion that the appearance and coarse material,
the fleeting relationships, and sad that women forced by night in
the streets of London and Paris