 "What? What do you say? "Asked the most, not understanding these Germanic
wit. And although it received no reply, just laughed.

Maltrana Ojeda, who were in the waist, close to the grotesque characters,
advancing the head as if to understand something in this story.

-
What does Fernando?

... The words have a certain buzz, as if they were poetry.

- Son hallelujah. I do not understand, but I seem silly to make people laugh is good.

Finished reading with a loud trumpeting of the musicians, and the two blacks, abandoning their javelins,
rushed headlong into the pool, doing various sorts of swimming and running long time with
your feet up and head submerged, floating on the surface of the skirt manes. Shouted the smiling
ladies scandal turned their heads some mothers search of their children, to recommend that
they not looked at.

But the calm was soon restored and trust, as it is civilized black, black Protestants, who
wore chaste dissimulation under the loincloth.

His swim through were almost forgotten by the preparations made the grotesque barber. Brought
to light their appliances, and each was greeted with great laughter: a razor blade the size
of a man no less large pliers, which served to start grinding, all painted wood, a brush that was
a broom, with stirring liquid from a tank, throwing handfuls of plaster dust contained be soap.
Sharpened knife on a large piece of cloth held by two apprentices; pliers trying to hunt proved with
them the head of one of blacks that eluded diving into the pool;
appreciated the density of the white paste with a splash bucket broom
asperges of the most overlooked; and good people celebrated with great
rejoicing all his antics.

He started the parade of neophytes. The clerk read names, and were moving between two gendarmes
they should receive baptism, barefoot, with no undergarments suit or a simple pajamas. They were first
class passengers who agreed to take part in the ceremony, and whose presence of the public greeted
with shouts and cheers.

Women laughed with malicious delight to contemplate such a facade to the same gentlemen who strutted on
the promenade or dining room with stretching ceremony.

Only the Germans marched making their first trip to the other hemisphere, friends, traditions, believed
had been disappointed that their interests and reduced their reputation by proposing someone save
this grotesque and painful ceremony.

Ancient custom was to suffer the baptism of line, and they did not give up what law their share.
Moreover, it was an honor and a pleasure to contribute to the amusement of fellow travel at the expense
of the individual.

With the rise in the list of those for a christening was not a German name, the clerk refrains from
repeating and passing to another. They knew the the vessel, by several experiments, that only
the Germanic humor gladly lent these games. Brown people, extremely capable and great fear
of ridicule, taking offenses such as teasing.

The police put the neophyte in the hands of the barber, and he did sit on a ladder the edge
of the pool. The two blacks were moving behind him wetting the back with angry puffs that
made him shudder, while the rapabarbas proceeded to dress. Le smeared with white body, struggling
to support the patient, trying to rid the eyes and mouth from the
torment of the broom.

Pretended to shave with the gruesome navajón; tried introduced between his lips the huge tongs
to extract a tooth, and meanwhile the clerk pronounced the formula of baptism: "By the grace
of god Neptune will hereinafter call ...». And gave him a name: shark, crab, cod, whale, according
to the caricature of himself, nicknames were echoed by the easy laughter of the audience.

Roared
the trumpets at the end of his formula, the clerk, supported her fists barber in the chest
of a neophyte, he pulled the black, and fell back in the pool with a splash splashing over long
distances. Disappeared into the turbid liquid covered of tufts of plaster. Blacks weighed
on him to keep his immersion as possible, and finally resurfaced three made a bunch, struggling
with fierce claws that caused laughter.

And the dubbed out dripping, no other concern to keep his hands clasped on his belly to avoid unseemly
transparencies, carrying traces on their clothes dark of the hands of blacks, while they bore
in their arms faded the white hands marked by the neophyte during the fight.

He was throwing names the clerk, and some, getting no response, the intervention caused law enforcement.
Obeying a sign from the butler, came the gendarmes ridiculous in search of the fugitive throughout
the ship. He was someone who wanted to increase public joy this incident
of his invention.

And when he finally left to catch, appeared, as well as a turtle
in its shell under the turns of wire with which he had fastened his
captors.

The barber was wroth with him, prolonging the barbarous cleaning operations, and free blacks a true
boxing to not let out of the pool.

- Herr Maltrana.

Just said that the clerk, a mad joy spread across the waist, winning practicable balcony central
castle. Even the emigrants from the bow out of his immobility. All which until then had remained
indifferent to men devoid of meaning suddenly broke shouting, they stirred the same as a mob that
invades a scene. "Maltrana! That leaves Maltrana! "The noble women returned to him from above his
eyes and waved hands to obey their wishes.

Dr. Zurita and other Argentines left the waggish tranquility with
which they had seen until then the 'gringos' nonsense' to wave at
Isidro, urging him to give pleasure to the families.

"Ah, brave gaucho! ... See if you made one of his! "Even children enthusiastically slapping.
"Don Isidro! ... That leaves Don Isidro! "The hero stood up, waving with irony and pride at the same
time.

- What cheer! ... Thank you, dear people!

But upon returning to shrink one of the horizontal poles that served
as seat load him and Fernando, modestly hiding behind your friend
requests redoubled fury the public.

Two gendarmes began an advance towards him.

- Are you going to do,
Ojeda, as this ends badly - he said angrily -.

I do not come here to laugh ... The first guy to those who touch me, you loose a Smite.

The butler, discreet, guessing the thoughts of Maltrana beckoned, the police retraced their steps
and the clerk was quick to give another name:

- Herr Doktor Muller.

A burst of joy Germanic erased the last murmurs of disappointment caused by Isidro. The laugh was
general view among the police to "Doktor" - the same as speaking Maltrana Tenerife - great body,
grave of face, with grizzled beard and thick red myopic glasses. Welcomed with a standing ovation
childish laughter mocking the public and sat on the steps of the pool and on top of a chair. "The
duty is duty - seemed with cold eyes say about him -.

Discipline is the foundation of society, and there to adjust to what they ask the most. "

He removed his shoes, placing them carefully, without one past the other an inch; took off his
glasses, gave them to a cabin, as if they were an object of laboratory and without losing its noble
quiet, looking at everyone with eyes wide open vague, started to shed their clothes until the feminine
screams and laughter of the men warned should not proceed.

Ojeda watched the "doktor" with some astonishment.

America was hired by a government to give lessons in chemistry at the university in the country. Enjoyed
some popularity in the laboratory from their homeland ... And was there holding the enjabonaduras
and antics of the barber, shuddering under the dashes of black, without knowing the grotesque
of a situation that had angered others, perhaps pleased to contribute to the delight of the crowd
weary of the monotony Ocean.

Christening the trumpet sounded, and the "Doktor" splashed in the pool, defending of the handfuls
of black ridiculous myopic stunning, majestic by the importance which gave the act and the seriousness
with which walked away dripping dirty clothes and beards After regaining his glasses.

Continued the party with visible decay of curiosity. People marched ship: cabin boys making their
first trip, firemen long navigation to the northern seas had not been in the South. And managers
take extra baptism jokes confianzuda brutality in their heads shaved
and naked torsos of those who were his peers.

Ojeda, during the long ceremony, he had looked many times at the castle practicable balcony Central
Maud expecting to see the ladies leaning out to them.

But the U.S. remained invisible. Finally, when there were no longer neophytes and the grotesque
characters were going to retire, preceded by music, was at one end of the viewpoint of the promenade
deck, hidden behind Mrs. Lowe, looming over his shoulder this the forehead and eyes, you need
to see. Fernando thought maybe Maud watched him for hours without realizing it this, and it caused
him some annoyance.

He separated from his friend to go running to the upper floors of
the ship, and before heard them breaking music playing a march.

The procession moved toward neptunesco den terrace, where they would be baptized ladies. People
left the practicable balcony to run the latter site.

Near the winter garden he found with Maud, who was walking between spouses Lowe. Crossed a greeting,
and instantly Ojeda experienced a feeling of strangeness.

Mrs. Power seemed another woman. Almost felt like to ask for forgiveness, as he is wrong to
confuse a stranger with a friend. She nodded with a smile insignificant greeted him like any
other passenger. His eyes were fixed on hers quietly, without the slightest hint of embarrassment,
as if there were no other relationships between the ordinary in the
common life on board.

They talked about the four of baptism, and the Herculean Lowe said the incidents. Mr. Maltrana
had not wanted to be left baptized. Why? ... He had crossed the line several times, paying always
at the ceremony. In the Goethe also have offered not to oppose the lady. A fun party. But Mr.
Maltrana, I was afraid ... Oh! Oh! Oh! And laughed, showing the luenga teeth inlaid with gold.

All
walked to the cafe terrace to witness the ceremony of baptism female.

Mrs. Lowe, with the instinct of solidarity guess that makes every woman the right moment to
help a friend, stood clutching the arm of Maud, standing between her and Fernando.

He searched in vain for a slight smile, a look of intelligence.

In need of comfort, praise Maud inside the discretion of the race easy to master, hiding their
impressions. "What good fakes! ... No one would guess what's between us ... "but makes to the
memory of the painful scene in front of the cabin door. Trembled in his hearing the echo of the
male voice almost hoarse with anger ... And with sad humility search sought to explain his
conduct something this evil. "But what I have, Lord?

What I could offend ?...»

Neptune, in the middle of the terrace with his entourage proceeded to the christening of the
passengers. They occupied several rows of benches, as in a school, and every time you lift a to receive
the lustral water, the musicians threw their long tubes of copper a roar trumpets of war scenes
similar to Wagner.

God had removed gallantly dive in sea water. He held in one hand a large spray bottle filled
with perfume, and sprinkle with reverent heads: one, blond and ruffling in the wind, sometimes
glossy black, studded by the brightness of combs.

All the joy of the ceremony lay in the names that would impose divinity
their catechumens to approving murmurs or general laughter.

The imagination of the butler and waiters in some letters he had given all his juice to flatter
the passengers with the names of starfish, pink Ocean, zephyr Ecuador,
etc. The old ladies were nymph, nymph Atlantic, Naiad, which made
flushed back to their seats, with the double chin quivering, including
approving murmurs and somewhat ironic competition.

With his fellow Germans were allowed good innocent jokes to the delight of the audience. A
weak left at his baptism with the designation of "sardines", another obese was called "Triton."

Maud
seemed to get tired of this ceremony. I looked everywhere, but avoiding his eyes meet with Fernando.
A passenger approached the ladies with the cap in hand and gallant
air, just as if it were offered to a dance.

- When you want ... The
table is prepared in the classroom.

Munster was inviting them to a game of bridge. Tenacity finally triumphed. Had found playmates
in those three Americans, convincing them an hour earlier, while
witnessed the christening ceremony.

Maud gladly accepted the invitation, as if the bridge was a good excuse to withdraw from importunate
presence.

He walked away with his friends after an indifferent greeting Fernando, and he saw her walk without
turning his head, without a hint of hesitation and regret.

Here again one felt sorry for her fault she did not know was, but justified this conduct inexplicable.
"What have I done, Lord? ... What have I done ?...»

With the abject humility of all love in disgrace, was a little while after her, despite of suggestions
of a false energy advised him haughty and indifferent.

His legs carried him with an irresistible impulse to the vicinity of the room, and looked at
Maud with the cards in hand, frowning and looking hard at their playmates.

By lifting her eyes, saw Fernando framed by the window, staring fixedly
and made a gesture of anger, just as if he were confronted with something
which shook his nerves and broke his patience.

Fernando fled, suffering the same feeling as if just received a blow on the back ... He doubted
the reality of the facts and even his own person. Would dreaming?

... Would his invention memories of the night? ...

He wandered around the ship, one deck to another, to find Isidro coffee on the terrace. It
was not in it any trace of the feast of the baptism means passengers
had spread.

Maltrana seemed infuriated by the excesses and hardships of their popularity. I could not
circulate the ship without his many dear friends will go out to step with an air of protest. The
ladies seemed inconsolable. Why had not ceased to baptize? As interesting would have been the
show! ...

- As if I were a monkey, Ojeda friend ... as if I had shipped to make people laugh ... Believe
me, I feel the sadness of a great man convinced of the ingratitude of his people.

And after this statement, accompanied by a comical gesture, Isidro
turned to lean against the railing, looking at northern migrants huddled
down in the square stern.

- For a while I'm here to remind mariners
of bygone centuries and their views on virtues of the equator.

Do not you remember you ...

The first sailors who had gone to the other hemisphere gave assured that in line dying every
harboring parasites in the bodies of the sailors and the cracks ships. And this belief was not
only the Spanish explorers, French and The British also adopted, becoming for many years a universal
truth.

- Past the Azores - Maltrana said - began to depopulate the bloodthirsty
beasts the heads and beards of the crew, and get to the line there
was one to remember.

This s kind of uncomfortable was not so exclusive property of one people or another. All those
in Europe equally possessed, and even enjoyed the pleasure of kings and entertainment rascuñón
hunting in the dark.

Imagine what would those small vessels with crews wood piles and corroded by all sorts of nasty
bugs ... How to reach heat line was that the sailors were going about half naked and take advantage
of long calm giving baths, this momentary hygiene exterminate the fierce companions, justifying
the belief that dying for lack of acclimatization to move from one
hemisphere to another.

The bloodthirsty tiger from the jungles capillaries, carnivorous beast jumping on the tops and
hollows in the folds of clothing, had figured for centuries as an interesting character in
many literary works.

Cervantes laughed at him and his feigned death in the limit of two hemispheres to tell "the adventure
of the enchanted boat," when Don Quixote and his squire floated on
the Ebro in a boat without a paddle ... The champion dreamer believed
to be a few minutes navigation near the equator, and to convince,
recommended to seek Sancho on their clothes to see if there was "something"

... "Something and even somethings" answered the squire sly picking his chest.

- I thought this friend Ojeda, looking at the respectable patriarchs going down with fur greatcoat
despite the heat. "Something and even somethings." For those, the line has lost Under its former
... Look at them: scratch to scratch! ...

He pointed to some immigrants who watched the Ocean thoughtfully, as figures hieratic priestly
majesty, wrapped in robes Luengas while his fingers hooked walked by the beard, sunk under
the skin, or advancing cap in the folds and folds of the breast.

- Let's go - Ojeda said nervously, as if you do not inspire confidence that the height separated
from these characters.

Noticed when walking along the deck the shortage of ladies. Some that were shown for brief times they
seemed preoccupied with the search for something important.

Then disappeared, as if an idea they have bought a new or modified
data that your bad mood.

- They are preparing for the party tonight
- said Maltrana -.

Great dance costumes and during the meal masquerades as baptism.

The day continued with an overwhelming monotony. Still bright on the horizon the last solar
fires, when the trumpets announced the banquet.

The flags, wreaths of roses, all the trappings of great colorful festivals, adorned the dining room.
No service began were occupied many of the tables.

Many passengers remained in the breakfast area to enjoy before the other of the announced news.

Ladies
retarded entry, with the hope that their costumes achieve greater
success.

Expected, as well as actresses, that the room had good audience, and their maids or men of the
family were in the cabin to the dining room to look around and come
back with news.

Each family wanted the others were in front, and let time pass without
a decision.

They were passengers in the third course, when they began to present the costume, all at once.
Blushing welcomed the applause and shouts of enthusiasm, and so went to their seats escorted
by the family. Passed among the tables Russian ladies high crown and robes rigid, often Nipponese
of walking; polonaises dolmanes rimmed with white fur, sailor tempting youth packed their prominence
in a white robe given by a boy.

- Ollé!

Ollé! ... Carmen!

Was Conchita, white blanket, short skirts and large movements of range, he entered, Dona Zobeida
protected by smiling, motherly face of this triumph.

The men were also on the masquerade. Many did not have another nose disguise cardboard or crepe
whiskers, keeping them though hindered their food. Some appeared with big hat, poncho on the shoulders
and spurs, it did resonate belligerently. Color were eager to local brokers, who claimed to be dressed
as gauchos of the Pampas Chilean or broken.

- Ah, gaucho cute! Tigre! - Exclaimed with mock enthusiasm American boys -. Ah, rotito! ... Huaso
funny! ...

And the masks, resting her hand on the old knife or kitchen knife carrying the belt to "be more
in character," smiled grateful.

- Ich danke ... Grasias Mochas.

Some ate between sweat of fear, disguised as dervishes bed blankets. A German major had put the life jacket
that kept all cabin as a precaution regulations. Locked up like a crustacean in this shell
of cork, kept away from the table because of the volume of its container,
having to make a journey every time his hands were on the plates in
their mouths.

A mock astonishment greeted him with loud applause, and satisfied with this triumph, endured
martyrdom, being the first to admire his prodigious inventive.

The maids of luxury cabins ranging from table to table, dressed in peasant Tirol, giving flowers.
Other servants, hawkers dressed in German, offering goodies that were in a drawer on the chest. A
painted black boy with the help descolgábase a rope through the skylight that connected the music room
with dining room, and proclaimed, in the style of newspaper vendors, the Aequator Zeitung newspaper
is printed on board the press that was used for the printing of menus and lists of passengers.
The tiny leaf repeated on every trip the same jokes and poems dedicated
to the passage of the line. The butler, standing at the entrance to
the dining room, coat stand with brass buttons, seemed to preside
over the banquet, smiling modestly, as if grateful for the congratulations
of the audience silent for good Under the party.

On the tables elevábanse
multicolored cones pyramids with surprises. Threw their diners ends,
producing an explosive burst, and emerged wrappers tiny ornaments,
butterflies and flowers chiffon, tiny flags, paper hats. It adorned
the breasts of the ladies with these brilliant baubles, all smoking
flap looked like a badge of national flag carrier. Cubríanse heads
with the tissue paper hats, combs of birds, mitres Asian, clown hats,
contrasting grotesquely with the gesture avid eaters.

After grilling
the waiter disappeared, and all the lights went out at once. This
resulted in complete darkness, after a silence of surprise, shouts
and whistles. The malicious mimicked in darkness smacking kisses,
others raised howls of animals. But DIN was short-lived.

It sounded
far away the music and lights twinkled in red and green breakfast
room, a line of lanterns carried aloft by the waiters. This glow,
muffled by the glass colors, discreetly lit with soft light. It was
the "march of the torch" of any party German. The passengers, attracted
by the music began to beat time with their knives, plates and glasses.
And among the general ringing, almost drowned out the sounds instruments,
the procession paraded: the drum major leading the band, all the servants
carrying lanterns, the waitresses dressed as flower girls, and a large
number of animals bears, dogs and lions, waiters in good faith, sweating
under the fur lining and moved from side to side their heads roaring
or barking cardboard