 There we found a keeper in uniform of the Swiss of Louis
XVI, securing with much aplomb to three English ladies he had fought like a lion in the usual
day of August 10, escaped by a miracle. Although the illustrious fighter having stated no more
than sixty years, and was very knowledgeable in point of French geography, that did not prevent
a serious citizen "perfidious Albion" were eagerly collecting the reminiscences of the Swiss
and carefully writing them a portfolio of travel, as news of the first order.

If the naive credulity of the island made us smile, I confess I did not understand the pride
that the citizens of Lucerne maintain this strange monument, which to my eyes was but a pattern
of infamy, or at least a sad reminiscence. Instead of devoting monuments to the memory of the degradation
of the noble and free people of Switzerland, citizens the Confederation should make every effort
to condemn to oblivion the flamboyant mercenary which for centuries has made Switzerland a hotbed of
soldiers of the most odious tyranny and the most corrupt and corrupting governments. If in the
last ten years has Swiss mercenaries seen looting Peruza, as soldiers of the Pope and defending
atrocities the cause of the Bourbons of Naples, it must be remembered also, in honor of radicalism
Swiss, the assemblies and the government of the Confederation have taken action at this time strong
to end the mercenaries. Thanks to the incomparable Garibaldi and to Gialdini and other general Italian,
Swiss soldiers have disappeared from southern Italy; and between the major results of the Italian
revolution will not be one of the less significant the replacement of the heroic and selfless
volunteer (an instrument of emancipation and symbol the brotherhood of the people) instead of
a mercenary from another era, an instrument of oppression and a symbol of human degradation.

*
* * * *

       Lucerne, mainly Catholic city, has about 11.500 inhabitants, which
in 1857 only 317 were Protestants.

Thanks to steam navigation of the lake, in relation to the road leading to Italy by the Saint-Gothard,
and the recent railroad that has been rapid communication with Bern and railways in western
and northern Switzerland, Lucerne begins to have considerable commercial importance, though
perhaps partly lose it when Italy and Switzerland have direct and prompt communication. Lucerne industry
is reduced to some tissues cotton, flax and hemp and articles of hosiery, and factories are very
subordinate. Produce also straw hats and other items of little importance. For the rest, Lucerne
is faithful general thought (the result of the emulation system that generates the federal independence)
that inspires so careful to the Swiss interest in training establishments and charities. The isolation
of nature had been to the Swiss villages, before the invention modern industry in the field
of communications, had made them understand that they should Take full force themselves. Therefore, it
has been so deep and general feeling in Switzerland fraternity, which is manifested in the numerous
hospitals, hospices and other facilities similar. As to the education, emulation, on the one
hand, sustained for autonomy social policy and the cantons, and second, the progress of democratic ideas
and institutions after 1798, and 1848 in particular, have favored the multiplication of institutions
intended to propagate the knowledge of all kinds in the masses.

I will note here, subject to subsequent observations, some curious contrasts that attentive
traveler easily seen in the cities of Switzerland.

In no country are so appropriate comparisons as in Switzerland, where a small but highly varied
territory coexist Confederate several very different races, with different religions, practices,
arts, and institutions very different. Without wishing in any way infer general rules in favor
or against any religion, I can say that without any notable exception, I have observed in all
cities Switzerland a clear contrast with respect to the mercenary, the messiness, the situation
of the establishments and customs, and public instruction of the masses. The Protestant cantons
supplied to an insignificant number of despots, as mercenaries, the vast Most or almost all of these ever
left the Catholic cantons.