 Just come to invite you to take
a turn in the cave ... Cave of the mice ... you know. There can entertain in a rat stripped of
many that come to visit ... Come on, give me hand for the lead with all ceremony.

The girl went to stand behind a chair, thence, pursued by Amalia and Concha, ran around the
table and finally took refuge behind the butler.

- Manin! Manin, by God, hide me!

But he grabbed her arm and handed it to the lady. Each one by one they took the hand and dragged
her, despite his piercing cries.

- A cave no! The cave is not! Godmother, sorry! Kill me first. It
seems I have a lot of fear!

The cave is not that I eat the mice!

The servants went out into the hallway and witnessed the scene silent and serious. The cries
of the girl went missing in the dark and winding staircase leading
to the basement.

Amalia opened the door of the terrible cave and pushed her daughter
into the interior.

Closed fury, but she ran towards the exit door and took her hand. They heard a cry heartbreaking.
The Valencia opened the door again, gave a strong boost to the creature she fell to the floor and
locked it.

The cave was damp and black dungeon where only penetrated a few faint
rays of light a porthole open on top.

He served in the past to wine cellar.

Now there was no there than empty bottles.

The little girl was alone stood up, looked around mad with terror, tried to scream and Her voice
knotted in the throat, and finally, extending his hand, attack of a strong earthquake, fell faint.

After
half an hour the groom, who had witnessed the closure, moved by compassion, He approached the
door and looked through the keyhole. Could see nothing. He called very softly.

- Josephine.

The girl did not respond. He knocked louder. The same silence. Startled, she screamed and hit
the door with all his might not get answered. Then he hastened to give up part of what was, at the
risk of losing their jobs. Amalia Concha sent the key to see what was happening. Between her
and Paula went to the creature senseless, cold and rigid, with the characters of death printed on
the face. Fearful of the complications that This would occur, the Grandee's wife rushed to
get her into bed. Took little small to herself, but immediately declared a high fever. Llamosa
doctor. Found her badly. To explain the wound of the hand and the cardinals presented, Amalia,
fertile in lies, invented a story that the doctor believed, or pretended to believe.

He was between life and death a few days. Amalia was with eye during disease. No loss hurt the
creature on which he had poured the bitter gall your heart, but he waved the idea of ??losing at once
his vengeance. Just the third days of being in bed Josephine, was reported last night that Fernanda
had left in the post-chaise to Madrid, and Luis only take four or
five days to meet with it.

Experienced violent shaking. A seething wave of bile filled his chest.
That night had a fever too. He escaped! There was no possible retaliation
for the traitor. Go to Madrid, marry, maybe there would receive the
news of the death of his daughter cry a little, after the caresses
of his beloved wife would forget it. Love those so long, so alive,
there would be more than a man walking his happiness in Europe, and
Lancia a poor old woman serving sad scoffing to the corridors of Altavilla.
Their flesh flaccid trembled. Vengeful instincts of their race shouted
angry, overwhelming. No, could not be! Before throwing his daughter
dead at the foot, before stick a dagger in the heart. 

He thought,
singular and terrible to tell her husband everything