 

Palomino said that "compliance with the timeliness with which he always obeyed the orders of
His Majesty, and even fought against large storms reached the port of Barcelona for the month
of June, 1651 ', from which it follows that even took sixteen months
to return to Spain.

The impatience with which the King hoped would subside from fixed to see the acquisitions during
the journey had made on his own, as well as many molds or female, as then was said to empty classical
statues, paintings brought some outstanding merit: the beautiful picture of Venus and Adonis
[64], Paul Veronese, and purification of the virgins Midianites [65], the composition and state
clearly be oval for a roof, and the sketch Paradise [66], implemented with the same purpose
and intended for hall of the Great Council of Venice, both works
of Tintoretto.

Only these paintings have chosen the purest taste test the while predilection for the painters of that
republic.

The following year the space vacated palace chamberlain, sought by several suitors favored by
different characters that made up the Bure the expressing Velázquez
also requested in his memorial to the King "who has many years dealing
with the ornament and composure VM room with care and skill that a
VM is satisfied, and then he begs VM thanks for this occupation, it
is so tight to his genius and occupation "[67].

The King was chosen by Velázquez. The fact of having made this appointment after to return the
painter of Italy has led some to believe that it rewarded him spontaneously Felipe IV as well on that
occasion had served, but if this were true, no had taken eight months to award. In addition,
Velazquez asked the square. Among the applicants it included the head of the wax, more aid from
the furred and another employee of the royal house that could not count, so that the favor that
was the subject fell Velázquez to prefer others who, unable to demonstrate their craft artistic
taste had not of employment to serve as a painter who learned his
powers recently joined admiring the luxury and poise of Italian palaces.

[Image:

Morritt COLLECTION

Venus at her Mirror]

The quartermaster in charge of forcing the author of "The jump into something as important and issue
orders to clean the courtyards and corridors, "remove a guard black that was close to the Queen's
Chamber ", to report on how far the powers jack-aid of the furred and toilet boys, and precede
the King when he went to Brown, El Escorial and Aranjuez.

Velazquez, however, had to seek employment judging 'Adjusted to his genius and occupation.
"

To avoid interruption after the listing of the pictures that made our great painter, from for the
second time he returned from Italy until his last days, should address an issue now have been concerned
that Spanish scholars. I mean the memory called Velázquez.

Palomino wrote that "in the year of 1656 sent to Mr SM Diego Velázquez would lead to San Lorenzo
Real forty-one original paintings, some of them from the auction of the King of England Charles Stuart,
the first of that name, others brought Velázquez and others that gave SM D. García de Avellaneda
y Haro, Conde de Castrillo, who had been Viceroy of Naples, and time was president of the Council
of Castile, of which Velazquez made a description and Memory, which
gives notice of its qualities, stories and authors, and the sites
were placed, to manifest a. SM, with such elegance and property described
therein his erudition and vast knowledge of art, because they are
so excellent that he could only achieve the deserved praise.

"

No doubt, as this, that Velázquez, to comply with the order of the King, made a written consigning
I thought of the paintings and the place where they were placed, so that there Memory and was
prepared to show it SM Palomino After one, even Cean Bermudez, mentioned the paper until a few
years ago scholar Adolfo de Castro presented to the Academy Spanish
book which no one had said a word bibliophile, printed, apparently
with the exclusive purpose of preserving for posterity the great painter
that letter