 

Recounting the story he told me D. John Fresco, whose certainty confirmed to some point, my dear
friend D. Aureliano, I can not remember a study that he wrote and published years ago, Rosa
Cleveland, sister of former President of the United States. The study entitled Faith altruistic,
capital seeks to demonstrate that the mission of women is to reveal to man his top destinations,
encourage him to fight and inspire the spirit and confidence that are necessary to achieve them.

MASTER RAYMOND

I

In several treatises on political economy I have seen an account, from which it follows that the
industry of cobblers in France has produced since the discovery of America until today, six or seven
times more wealth than all the gold and silver have come to Europe
from this new and vast continent.

This leads me, without fear of going through unlikely inventor of backstage, teacher talking
here of Raymond.

Making shoes began to be rich, then his wealth grew, giving money to award, although to be
conscientious man, fearing God and very compassionate, never took more than 10 100 a year later,
he founded and opened a shop or bazaar, where they sold all there is to sell sugar, coffee,
beans, cod, cards, prayer books, books for school children, and all
kind of fabrics and trimmings for the clothing of men and women.

The teacher was being also quite a few estates of their debtors, and became owner of vineyards,
olive groves, orchards and farms.

No longer wielded the awl, or put the tirapié, or soiled fingers cerote but true to its origins,
retaining the shoe store where they worked official experts, the disciples own. The Grand Bazaar
was next. And next to the shoe and the bazaar could be seen revoked and the beautiful façade
of the house, situated in the central and widest street in town. Behind this house and in
uninterrupted succession, had patios, yards, stables, tinados, warehouses, barns, press, oil mill,
and in short, everything that can hold and has a wealthy farmer and
owner of Andalusia.

The back door that gave entrance these barns, one could say that was outside the walls of the village,
if people have walls, while the main door, as stated above was at the center.

The teacher Raymond never wanted to commit or be mixed in politics, but suddenly had to change.
He had done fusion and had agreed to be head of that party Villalegre politician and mayor.

He was a widower, was already fifteen years. And it was about seven he had his only son, D. Raimundo
Roldán Chain, studying or walking and idling in Madrid, then on this point differ not a little the
authors. Also differ about the cause of the long and uninterrupted absence the child, attributing
one happier than widowhood Recollect father, for which there embarrassment or scandal was the presence
of the child, and others attributing it to indifference and arrogance
the latter, who lived in Madrid as elegant and illustrious gentleman,
who spoke of his house manor, and repelled back to the place to see
the plebeian coarseness of his father and the early fundamental and
shoe tenaciously preserved.

Since this was, D. Raymond was given in Madrid tone very noble, and gentle presence, his sartorial
elegance and used to spend the money due, paid to nobility no credit short. He was also robust and
flexible in all bodily exercises, great pistol shooter, foil and
saber, good rider, best dancer, and very funny, witty and funny.

He had many friends and was in Madrid as a fish in water.

Only recently he had graduated Juris Doctor, and had sent his father PhD thesis. The father
read very carefully the first four or five pages, but not understand a word, he became dizzy
and stopped reading. And it was very escamón, began to ponder then, whether the failure to understand
what it would be because of their ignorance, or whether it would, as Cánovas phrase that had
come to this place, because her son was a fool adulterated the study or if it was because
there had been no such study no such alteration, but because the boy had studied very little
and to hide it, had filled his speech phrases hollow, relying on
his boldness and simplicity of many people who do not understand do
you most admire