 - I do not know if I have that, but I have natural mouth and stomach, and I know that God has placed
me in the world to live, not to let me starve. The sparrows, a supposition, Do you have shame?
Quia! ... you have is bill ... And looking at things as they should look, I say that God has
not only raised the land and sea, but his work are verily Grocery stores, the Bank of Spain,
the houses where we live and say, the vegetable stands ... Everything belongs to God.

- And the coin, the coin indecent, whose is it? - Plaintive accent asked Mrs. -. Answer me.

- Also is from God, because God made gold and silver ... Tickets do not know ... But also, too.

- What I say, Nina, is that things are of that is ... and everybody has except we ... Aha! hurry
up, I feel weak. Where do I put the medicine? ... And: are on the dresser. I will take a ballot
of salicylate before eating ... Oh, what job I get these legs! Instead of taking them to me, I
have to pull them. (Rising with great effort.) As I would walk with crutches. But you see what
God does with me? If this sounds fun! I was sick of sight, legs, head, kidney, everything except
the stomach. Deprived of resources, I have to digest like a vulture.

- So does me. But I'll take it the wrong way, ma'am. Blessed be the Lord, that we gives the
greatest good of our bodies: hunger Blessed! ".

VII

Already in his early sixties, the unhappy for so many reasons Zapata Francisca Juarez, known in
the years that their deplorable decline by Dona Paca, a dry, laconic and plebeian familiarity.
Behold how the glories and Highnesses stop this world, and what was pending touring the said lady,
rolling to deep poverty, since dogs tied sausage, for the years 59 and 60, until the alms are
living unconsciously, between agony, pain and shame thousand. Countless examples of these falls
offer us large populations, more than any that of Madrid, where there is little habits of order,
but all the examples above the Dona Francisca Juarez, sad toy destination. Looks good these
things and the rise and fall of people in social life, it is great foolish to take the target
to blame for what is exclusive work of the characters themselves and temperaments, and good example
is Dona Paca, who in his own self from birth carrying the disruption of all things material. Born
in Ronda, his eyes became accustomed from childhood to the dizzy depressions, and when she had
nightmares, dreaming she fell to the profound depth of the crack is called Tajo. Those born in
Ronda head must have very strong and not suffer from dizziness or such thing, made to look frightful
abyss. But Dona Paca could not stand firm on the heights, instinctively tumble, and his head
was not good at it or the government of life, that is security of view in the moral order.

Paquita Vertigo Juárez was a chronic condition since she was married very young, with D. Antonio
Maria Zapata, who was twice her age, intendant of the army, excellent person, comfortable position
for his home as the bride, who also owned much real estate account. Zapata served in the Army
of Africa, a division of Echagüe, and after Wad-Ras became the Address field. Established marriage
in Madrid, he lacked time to put Mrs. foot home in a frivolous and flamboyant life, if he started
the frame by adjusting the Vanities of income and wages, soon got out of all bounds of prudence,
and not long in coming delays, irregularities, debts. Zapata ordenadísimo man was, but so he dominated
his wife, who even made him lose his eminent qualities, and how well knew how to manage the flows
of the army, saw his men lost, forgotten art conservation. Paquita did not set rates in elegant
dress, or the luxury of table or continuous shaking dances and meetings, or the wasteful whims.
So notorious was and disorder, that Zapata, terrified, looking to come the thunder fat, had
to overcome drowsiness in which he had half his face, and began to make numbers and want to set
method and rationale in the government of his estate, but oh sad fate of the family! when I was
more engrossed man in his arithmetic, waiting for his salvation, caught pneumonia and passed
away life on Friday afternoon, leaving two young children: Antonito and Obdulia.

Flow manager and owner of assets and liabilities, Francisca soon demonstrated
his ineptitude to manage these tangled issues, and next came, like
worms in body corrupt, countless people who ate it inside and out,
devouring her mercilessly.

In this disastrous time, went to her benign, if from the first day was credited excellent cook,
a few weeks had to prove to be the most intrepid ssion of Madrid. What may be the girl in this field,
the same Dona Francisca, a radical myopia for inspection of their interests, could appreciate the
thorough rapacity of the servant, and still determined to correct it. In fairness, I must say
Benign (among his call Benin, simply by Mrs. Nina) had very good qualities that, in some way
compensated, on the inequality of his character, one serious defect of the armhole. It was very clean,
amazing activity that produced the miracle of enlarging the hours and days. Besides this,
she estimated Francisca intense love for the children of the house, love sincere and, if you
will, positive, revealed in the constant surveillance, in exquisite care that sick or attending
them. But those qualities were not effective enough to prevent the defect promote sour issues
between love and servant, and one of these, Benin was fired. The kids threw very least, and
wept for his gracious Nina and soboncita.

For the three months came to visit at home. He could not forget the lady or the kids. These were
his love, and the house, all her material, and attracted the fond. Paquita Juárez also was
especially pleased to chat with her, because something (did not know what) existed between the
linking two secretly, something common in the extraordinary diversity
of its characters.

Visits often. Ay! the Benina was not comfortable in the house where he then served. In short, we
already have it again in the domesticity of Dona Francisca, and so happy her, and met the lady
and the little wild with joy. Came at that time increased difficulties and family drowning in
the administrative order: debts voracious teeth gnawed to the heritage of the house were lost valuable
properties, from not knowing How, infamous arts of usury, in the hands of lenders. As a precious
cargo that throws the boat into the sea on the plight of the wreck, out of the house the best furniture,
paintings, carpets delicious: the jewels had come out already ... But however much you lightened
the ship, the family still in danger of capsizing and plunging into the black social chasms.

For
more misery, in that fateful period from 70 to 80, the two children had very serious diseases:
typhoid one, eclampsia and epilepsy other. Benina assisted them with such care so loving and
request that they believe could be booted from the claws of death. They was paid, it is true,
this care with a burning affection. For the love of Benin, rather than his mother's, were open
to taking medications, to shut up and stay very still, sweating reluctantly, and not to eat ahead
of time: all of which did not stop between mistress and maid arise
issues and disagreements, which brought a second farewell.

In a fit of anger or esteem, Benina shot out, swearing and perjury would never set foot in that
house, and that the shaking from your shoes to not be stuck in their dust mats ... For what is
carpet, and there were none.

In effect before year apareciose Benina at home. Entered, her face bathed in tears, saying:
"I do not know what is the lady, I do not know what is this house, and these children, and these
walls, and everything here is: I do not know more but I am not in anything. At home I'm rich,
with good masters that no actual repair of two more or less, six hard salary ... Well I am,
ma'am, and spent the night and the day remembering this family and wondering whether or not it
will be fine. They see me sigh, and think that I have kids.

I I have no one in the world rather than the lady and her children are my children, for as such
I want ...». Benina again serving Dona Francisca Juarez as a maid only and However, because the
family had given a tremendous downturn in that year, being so conspicuous signs of ruin, the
maid could not see them without feeling deep sorrow. Compelling moment came to change the living
room with a more modest and inexpensive. Dona Francisca, attached to routines and no determination
at all, hesitated. The maid, taking away in moments the reins of government critics, decided
to move, and from the street jumped Claudio Coello the del Olmo. Certainly there were many difficulties
to avoid an embarrassing eviction: everything was arranged with the generous help of Benin, who
brought the Mount their economies, important over three thousand reais, and gave them to the lady,
since establishing community interest in adversity as in prosperous fortune. But even in that trait
charity beautiful woman denied the poor habits armhole, and pulled carefully to keep peak in
the trunk, as the basis for a new pawnshop, it was for her temperament need and pleasure of
his soul.

As you see, had the vice of the discount, which in some ways, on the other hand, was under savings.
Difficult to express splicing and confused where virtue and vice. Custom spare no big or small
part of what was given for the purchase, like storage, to see how slowly growing flow of bitches,
overlapped in spirit with all other customs, habits and pleasures. Had become the excise and gather as
something instinctive and acts of this lineage differed little from the depredations and crannies
of the magpie.

In this third era, from 80 to 85, sisaba as before, but keeping commensurately with the narrow
holding of Dona Francisca. Sucediéronse great misfortunes in those days and calamities. Mrs. pension,
a widow of a mayor, had been held in two thirds by lenders, the efforts succeeded to the efforts,
and get rid of a drowning, soon fell into greater stopping them. His life became a continuous
quest: the anxieties of a week, engendered the following week: Rare were the days of relative rest.
To mitigate the sad hours, drew strength from weakness, cheering with affected phantasmagoria
the moments of the night, when creditors were free of annoying and vexatious claims. It was necessary
to make new moves, looking for cheapness, and del Olmo spent the Elder, and Elder to Almond. This
fate of the names of trees in the streets where they lived, looked like birds flying from branch
to branch, scattered hunters' guns or stones from the boys.

In one of the tremendous crisis of that time, had Benina to go back to the bottom of his chest,
where the cat hid or pawnshop, a product of its rebates and armholes. Amounted the pile to seventeen
dollars. Unable to tell his wife the truth, came to the story that a cousin, the Rosa, trading in
local honey, had given a tough in order to keep them. "Give me, give me everything you have,
Benin, and God grant you glory eternal, and I will pay you back double when cousins ??Round of
pejugar pay me what ... you know ... is a matter of days ... You saw the letter. "

And stirring in the bottom of the trunk, in a thousand trinkets and bundles of rags, took the
twelve ssion medium and hard and gave it to her mistress, saying: "That's all I have. No more,
you can believe it; is as true as we have to die. "

I could not help it. Discounted his own charity, and sisaba in alms.

VIII

So many misfortunes, seem a lie, they were only the preamble of misfortune big, scary, unhappy
that the lineage of the Juarez and Zapata had to fall, the mouth
of the abyss into which dipped we find him to tell his story.

From living on Elm Street, Doña Francisca was abandoned by the society
that helped give his fortune to the wind, and on the streets of Elder
Almond disappeared and the few friends who remained.

By then the people of neighbors, shopkeepers and people disappointed
that it had started to call it sorry Doña Paca, and there was no way
to designate another name.

Gentezuelas inconsiderate and used to add crude to a mote infamous household name: Doña Paca's tricky,
Marquise of fib.