 Why? Because we have shown that organization
affect our bodies differently, and produce different impressions of the five senses, and yet this
did not trouble the agreement of the sensations or alter our ideas, then the assumption of La-Mennais
would not result in the disorder he suspects.

[107.] Feelings in themselves are nothing more than emotions of the soul, and on the outside,
have nothing on their part but the existence and extension of the bodies, then a new order of
sensations could only be a new order of conditions, which do not alter in all our ideas.

It said so far, is easy to see that the assumption of La-Mennais is already done; because there
are different sensations of the five senses, then you can not strike with such an assumption
order and the nature of our ideas, and the certainty of our knowledge.

From a musical instrument worked in a richly aromatic wood, leave pleasant impressions for hearing,
sight, touch and smell, what you do not destroy or alter the other, if we assume for the same object
is in a new relationship with our organization, resulting in new impressions soul, why is it
impossible that they exist together with those? The melodious sound, "perchance ceases to excite
in our souls a thousand different emotions, that in nature nothing to do with it? not true.
What they fear disorder of our knowledge by the introduction of a new order of sensations? Why
give much importance to an assumption, we can calculate the effects very well, because they
examined background to the current sensory phenomena, we see it already done?

[108.] It is true that we do not know other way to get in contact with external bodies, but by one
of the five senses, but so is that there is such contact, no correlation so mysterious, the soul from external
objects, which are totally inexplicable, attending only to the simple sensations through which communication
is established.

Notice what happens to the magical effects of music. Reflecting on them is found which are
of two types: the purely auditory, and intellectual and moral one stops so to speak in the
eardrum, the other reaches the brain and heart, and that man will organization well adapted
to the one that will not be for that. Two sugetos hear a sonata, both perceive music just material,
but do not experience the same effects intellectual and moral. Both warn of the slightest slip
of the voice, an instrument Compass, both admire the art and skill of the composer, both enjoy
the magic rapture, but while the brain and the heart of one will be out just your ordinary state and
will not receive more than a pleasure material, will have been so exalted above the heart and
another brain: fantasy feel with multiplied strength, budge on its head the thoughts and images,
as if to descend are the magical instrument on his forehead divine inspiration. His heart is deeply
troubled: the sweet tenderness, the deep and gentle melancholy, hatred, love, anger, generosity,
courage, the impetus will be born suddenly in his breast would feel under a magic influence
which moves in spite of himself: the vibrations of a string have risen in his heart that mysterious
storms efforts of reason enough just to master.

[109.] Does this tell us? Tells us that most of the common relations between objects and the
sense organs, there are other more intimate and delicate between them and the system of our
organization, and we made up for the experience with equal certainty that common. In them more variety
among individuals, are more unknown conditions that are necessary for certain purposes, but no
doubt about its existence, and This is sufficient for the sight of sound philosophy dent these
assumptions do not cause which aim to undermine the edifice of our knowledge.

[110.] It is thus shown what has to answer to the following difficulty: 'if give us a new sense
what would happen? "Nothing that would destroy the certainty of our knowledge, or alter the order and
nature of ideas, not another new would happen, but on many ways in which our organization is
affected by objects, there would be one more. We what would happen to a man who was deprived
of smell, and it should give all of a sudden, would have a sensation; us what would happen to a man
whose chest springs suddenly feeling had not previously experienced: it is an affection more. The
new prints are placed in place, and not destroy or alter the other.

BOOK THREE.

THE EXTENSION AND SPACE.

CHAPTER I.

Inseparable EXTENSION OF THE IDEA OF THE BODY.

[1.] Supposing that among the objects of sensations the extension is the only thing for us exists
on the outside, as more than a principle of causality, we closely examine what is the extension.

For
the moment, it seems that the idea of ??extension is inseparable
from the body.

I at least I fail to conceive what a body unextended. In missing the extension, go away the
parties, everything disappears as it relates to our senses: either there is no object or is
something very different from what caught up in the idea of ??body. Conceive of an apple: let's
make unextended suddenly, what do you down?

Dispense with by now if Descartes is right when you include the extension of essence of the body,
but I know very well that without the extension can not conceive
of the body.

I do not claim the identity of two things, but the inseparability of two ideas in our understanding.
No This is an opinion but a fact, that inner sense testifies.

It is true that ignoring the extension, you can conceive of a substance, or more generally,
a being, but then there is no idea of ??the body if we do not want
to be confused with the substance or of being in general.

[2.] All the ideas we have bodies we come to the senses, missing the
extension, missing all other sensations, for without it there is no
touch, no color, no sound, or smell, is therefore reduced to an object
or a thing that we have no idea, we only have one or abstract notion,
for which we can not distinguish from the others: a pure abstraction,
nothing more.

[3.] If you want to undo the difficulties opposed to the separation of the two ideas, extension
and body, would be necessary to determine the essence of the body, and when he knew his essentially
different from the extension, then the difficulty would come loose,
otherwise, not.

[4.] For a deeper understanding of the inseparability of reason, it must be remembered and the
fact recorded above, namely, that the extension is the foundation of all other feelings, being
compared to them a kind of container, substratum, not confused with any, which does not depend
on any particular one, which is a condition for all indispensable.

I have an apple in sight, and I shall examine the relationship that
each have the feeling I produce.

Clearly I can do without the odor without destroying any of the other sensations it emanates. Being
odorless, I still large, colorful, tasty, and even Sound as it is
capable of producing some noise.

Of its own destiny I can do without the taste and even the color, and everything is related
to the eye: for even in this case I find it tangible object, and therefore, extensive, figuratively,
and other properties that affect touch.

If instead of doing without regard to the view I want to dispense with what belongs directly to
touch myself, I can also do it without destroying other sensations: for still be offered to my
eyes the block with its length, shape and color, and may retain qualities
relating to the other senses.

I can still carry beyond abstraction. If the apple to spoil all the qualities that the offer to my senses,
depriving it of flavor, odor, color, light and heat also or cold, of softness or hardness,
and how much can touch it, I still the extension, not sensible, but conceivable. The extension
exists, regardless of their visibility, as there is for the blind regardless of the tangible,
as there is for the naked eye; regardless of smell, taste and sound, as there is for those deprived
of these respects, with that they have or vision or touch.

[5.] Here occurs a difficulty: it seems quite possible that mistake when it says the existence of
the extension abstracting from other sensations, because while making this abstraction we conceive private
feelings, do not lose the imagination but thereof: so, when I remove the block, full color, all
light, it gives me the apple extensive, it is true, but it is because we still imagine the color, or
if I try to deprive her of he remains for me as a black object in
a more or less dark background, other than the apple.

This seems to prove that there is illusion in these abstractions, and that there is no abstraction
complete, as to the reality of them, it happens the imagination of the same, or of others supply
them for the extension is perceived.

This objection is specious, and would be very difficult to dispel satisfactorily, if there of men
deprived of sight does not dissipate in a puff. In effect any such imaginings have a place in
the case of a blind man: for him there is no color, no shadows, no light, no darkness or anything
that relates to the eye, and yet he sees the extension, then the difficulty falter in its base,
falls to the ground.

[6.] But at least we will reply, it is necessary to confess that the
idea of ??extension is necessary dependency relation with the sensations
of touch: the blind as we have this sense, and he acquired the idea
of ??extension.

Then the idea is inseparable extension the sensations of touch. Even this result is legitimate. It
is true that by touch comes the idea of ??extension, that this sense is enough to give it, as
seen in the blind but it is necessary to touch her.

I have shown above that the simple view is sufficient to provide the knowledge of the three dimensions,
which is what which is the volume, or the extension in its full complement. Also, here I can do without
the idea of ??volume, I just the surface, the surface is inseparable extension of vision. No vision
when no color, or light, in one way or another, and this is impossible, Just imagine, when no
surface.

Another reason. The geometry, conceived without doubt the extension, and yet completely dispense
its relations with the touch and sight: then there is between them and that any connection necessary.

In
any object subjected to the sight, what is the relative quality of touch, necessary to give us an
idea of ??the extension? Examine it and see any. We have before us a liquid; Do you need fluency?
No: it freezing, there remains the extension. Does cold or heat? No: it saves the extension,
we will go through many degrees of the thermometer, without alteration
visible.

Imagine the quality you want from those relating to touch, and you will notice that the vary, modify,
or remove completely, without altering the extension visible.

We often happens that we have very clear, lively, given the idea of ??extension of an object without
knowing anything about his qualities on to the touch. I see from far away an object: color
and figure I have the eyes in all its details, but I do not know what material is, if marble
or clay, or wax, or what state of matter, whether soft or hard, wet or dry, hot or cold. I can
even know whether it is tangible, as in the figures which are formed from vapors imperceptible
to the touch simple.

[7.] Without extension no vision or touch, nor can any other sensations. In terms of taste is
not difficult to be convinced of this if you notice, requiring touch, and that failing this, one
can not exist. No shows this truth so clear about smell and sound, because if it is true that we do
not separate these feelings the idea of ??extension, always wrapping it in a way or another,
however there is still to know what would happen to those who were deprived of every sense except
the ear and smell. But without having to enter guesses such a scenario, just Knowledge: 1.
ยบ What about our organization can not do anything that is not extensive, were it not means
that we are entirely unknown, and give us any idea of ??what we mean by the body, 2. ยบ What
are received even if the sensations of hearing and smell without accompanying any idea of
??extension, in which case they would not be for us more than mere phenomena of our spirit, that
we would communicate with the outside world, as we now understand, because if we did not know
who come from other causes would not more awareness of the self, and if we knew, this case
does not offer us but as an agent that influenced us, and in no way as a being that had anything
like to what we understand by body. 3. No. That in this case, we would have no idea of ??our
own organization, or the universe, it is clear that reduced everything to internal phenomena,
and his relationship with the agents that produjesen, always missing the idea of ??extension,
or the universe or our body itself would be for us nothing of what
they are now.

What would the world unextended? "Even our own body? 4. No. That for now we simply show reliance
on that according to the current system are all about feelings to the extension, and this
is not destroyed, even if he did not possess more than smell or heard, no idea of ??the extension
formed, nor the need to experience their feelings. 5. No. That even in this assumption, there
is always standing the settled proposition: that the idea of the extension is independent of the
other sensations. 6. No sign remains also truth as we intended mainly demonstration, to wit:
that for us the idea extension is inseparable from the body.
[8.] This inseparability is as true that theologians to explain the
mystery of August the Eucharist, have distinguished themselves in
the extension of the body, the relationship between the parties yes,
and the relationship with the place: in ordine ad se, et in ordine
ad locum, saying that the sacred body of our Lord Jesus Christ is
in this August Sacrament with the extension in ordine ad se, but lacks
the Chapter in ordine ad locum. This proves that theologians have
been not be possible for man to lose all idea of ??extension, at the
same time without losing any idea body, and so have excogitating the
ingenious distinction which we have seen, and which I think take care
elsewhere