 Amalia, which
hardly knew him, began to watch him with curiosity. Both had been told about it, the affection
and respect he professed his mother, his melancholy mood, their skills, of exaggerated piety,
who wanted to treat you with privacy, wanting to penetrate the soul of that young man so handsome
and so innocent. He soon convinced that love had not yet lit in it. Close look at its relations
with Fernanda, saw in them a hint of coldness certainly not coming from the heiress. Knew
that the count was deceiving itself making efforts to get the same love, and even more forthcoming.
He took his love as an honorable obligation that required her to his age and position. The
more young main Lancia love the girl was richer and more beautiful. On the other hand, it seemed
as if to prove the population was not a fancy or a maniac, as he had ever heard suggest. So he
looked in strict compliance with the duties of the perfect lover, a couple walking of hours
in the morning on the streets of Altavilla, where his girlfriend, accompanied on Sunday on
the promenade, sitting at his side in the gathering of the ladies of Meré or Quinones, and dancing
with her all the soirees rigodones Casino. But while Amalia missed seeing their talks were cold,
that the count was taciturn and distracted many Sometimes, while she, with evident interest,
had expenditures of the conversation and tried to keep alive.

Those you love were increasingly interested: it sought confidences
and his.

Soon his ardent soul, wise, willful, sympathized with that of Louis shy child, full of mercy
and tenderness. More teacher in the art of making love that Estrada-girl Rosa, soon managed
to inspire the confidence and affection Count, wrapped him in a thick mesh of confidence,
not only concerning their love, but of life. He confessed as well as the ablest Jesuit. Luis,
seduced by so much interest, he was opening his chest first informing him of his habits after the
events of his past life, finally their innermost feelings of those who confess only to a brother.
Amalia not surprised at the appearance of such original and morbid psychology, the accepted
as natural things, gave his opinion about them and authorized affectionately advise, rebuke
sometimes guide you in certain matters of life, which ignored complicated mechanism the count
full. Encouraged by this game very able, he would rely increasingly be delivered completely happy
with getting rid of as much thought ridiculous to confess the strange and painful shyness that
tormented him.

Amalia knew Fernanda dispel the suspicion of making confident and
resolute protector of their love.

If I kept particular times lengthy and animated conversation with the Count not least the spent
long and animated with the girl. This will greatly appreciated that protection, which resulted
in sometimes sought by the lady so that the couple could look and talk, to reconcile them when
they were at odds, etc., etc. But without the innocent the suspected child without the same
count would realize this, the lady was Valencia load step winning the heart of it. If youth, beauty
and grace was no dispute, less than the heiress, the long excelled in grace expressive face
the attractiveness of their conversation and the fineness of his intelligence. Of confidence
in confidence Luis came to show what the true state of his heart on Fernanda. The astute lady
knew how to take advantage of such confessions to make him see that I felt was only fond admiration
of beautiful works of nature, a vain desire to become young love by the most beautiful and richest
city, the need to divert boredom anything, in short, less than true love. It feeds on sadness
black, ineffable joys of insomnia, worries, a sweet and bitter agitation while we are constantly
in the chest. Luis was soon convinced. But she found her undue coldness did not understand
how a man of such good taste had failed love madly, scolded, teased him, going through the
roof of the gentle qualities heir.

While this saying with their lips, their eyes proclaimed otherwise. Those black eyes full of fire and
intelligence were fixed on him with an expression sometimes languid, sometimes malicious,
concluding there fascinated.

At the same time his hands short, delicate, aristocratic advantage any circumstances to touch
theirs, to leave you pinched nerve tenaciously. If ever two were inclined to see any object and touched
their heads, Amalia did not separate his own, let the count inhale the fragrance of her long time which
if trying to poison him. He worried about his clothes as well as imposing their tastes. Should
not be coat, the blue coat became him admirably. Why spend dark gloves? Banned, laughing, which
put them more. Ties to confessed that he had much pleasure, but it sat loop better than scarves.
Why was not involved in Madrid's hats? Those who came to Lancia were all stale and ridiculous. And
the count willingly obeyed his advances, leaving would be dominated by the ascendancy of the woman
as weak and strong body will.

One night he came home from Quiñones when nobody had yet told the lady abruptly

- Who has made you this carnation in his buttonhole, Fernanda?

The count, smiling and blushing, so did sign.

- Well, excuse me, but has a very ugly color ... You see, I'll put one more beautiful.

So saying, he was right to one of the vases in the living room and, after choosing a time, produced
a magnificent red carnation. He returned to where he was the count and with great ease, even
with some affectation, of one who wants to show their dominance,
snatched the pink he had and put the new one.

He is replacing suffered in silence, anxious and surprised.

She pretended not to notice this surprise, fell back slightly and said with intent:

- I bet it's better!

There was then some embarrassing moments of silence. She began to play with the Carnation Fernanda,
whipping the knees, while throwing frequent glances to the count, which remained confused, not
knowing what to say or where to put the eyes. Finally, one and another were found and smiled. It
burned in a spark malicious and contemptuous gesture showed sudden carnation in her hand under
the chairs. The count became suddenly serious; her cheeks were stained. At that moment came
in Manuel Antonio. The conversation ensued happy, indifferent. The count kept, however, a remnant
of embarrassment. When Fernanda arrived and with obvious disgust, asked for his carnation,
was in serious trouble, perished in a labyrinth of explanations.

The boy from his gardener, who went for a kiss, he had started, then
in a pot that was found in the cabinet of her mother had taken another.

But Amalia, implacable, put in a dispute shortly after asking aloud
smirk:

- Who has given you the pink so cute, Fernanda?

- No, I do
not - it was quick to respond.

And the Count, embarrassed and red again, again aloud to the explanation just given secret. That
little treachery the strongest knot tied with established including a unique relationship that
the count did not dare to define in their thinking, fearful of slipping into an abyss. Continued
partying with the same regularity, perhaps with some more, the heiress Estrada, Rosa, but could
not speak to Madame de Quiñones without feeling embarrassed, looks their way was long, deliberate,
their handshakes alive, imbued with love. Both concealed front of Fernanda as if it were already
outraged wife. And had not yet said a word of love! But Luis was convinced that his girlfriend
was missing, that was a criminal to D. Peter, his friend did not know why or how, but I was in
there in the depths of consciousness. However, sometimes mused that his party had not taken
a single step toward the crime, that he was entangled in the strange
relationships, which was love, intelligence, treason, all implied,
not knowing what had happened.

More than a month was spent in this way. Amalia not only spoke of love with their eyes, but he imposed
his will, made him run all their whims, sometimes scolded him harshly. Announced, for example,
was leaving: the eyes was back with Amalia telling him to stay, and stayed. Fernanda was dancing
with, and a stern look enough to keep him. One day he announced he would spend six or eight possessions
de Onis: Amalia negative sign him head, and gave up his journey. Why? What right contradicted
its findings, was introduced into his life and the ruled? I did not know, but pleasing sensations to
obey. He lived in a sweet unrest, longing, waiting something beautiful, something subtle I did not
want made in your brain. While she and her lifetime mysterious smile watching him calmly, sure
that you know that something and get to it when he came in appetite.

One afternoon in June was the count on the Farm inspecting the work
of some workers who had engaged in a ditch open wider to the mill.

The youth charged the cattle came to say that a lady was asking for
him.

- A lady? - Said surprised .-- Do not you know?

The servant looked at him stupidly, without answering.

How does he know, he who had passed life behind the cattle, and only
one day would Lancia market to buy or sell a cow?

The count took charge of this and immediately asked:

- Is it short?

-
It is not very high, no, sir.

- Very black eyes and alive?

Under color "? Is the ride very loose and elegant?

And before the servant could answer these questions, he had not understood, threw to run toward the house
with a beating heart, full of excitement about the premonition that
was it.

- Where is it? - Screamed while running.

- On the run, garden
gate - also answered loudly.

He came to the run without breathing. Before opening paused, ashamed its presumption. How had
he come to mean ... But why the devil had got in the head? ... And yet, he could not discard.
It was she, was she, no doubt you whatsoever. He lifted the latch on the large wooden door
painted green, and entered. The corrada was great. Could be seen leaning against the wall several
farm equipment. Under a tendejón lay some cars. In a wooden house, roughly hewn, was tied
a huge mastiff who wanted to break the chain jumps ahead giving furious stroking. Back in the
other end, near the barred door that communicated with the garden, saw her, in effect, with
the forehead pressed to the fence, watching the flowers. He was back. She wore Clear red and
white stripes on his head and straw hat with red flowers as well. With his left hand rested
on a parasol that matched her dress and the right pressed silk gloves, well printed what were you
these details! Never in life is erased from memory.

- You here? - Asked affecting composure was far from feeling .-- Who
Presumably there were you the lady that raised me just announced?

-
Do you really not have presumed you? - She asked staring at him.

-
No, no, ma'am.

And blushed as she said. The lady smiled benevolently.

- Well, you teach me those roses malmaison that I have spoken.

The count opened the garden door and both went inside. Was very large, and was quite neglected.
Since the countess had stopped coming to the farm nearly all the servants barely touched on it.
Luis was given to trials of new crops, raise livestock, to dry land, which the flowers. Still,
the time when her mother came all evening and attended him, were there many flowering plants,
large shrubs that eventually and fertile soil that would be transforming in leafy trees.

As they walked sandy roads, of which the grass was coming over for lack of cleaning, the Countess
explained aloud how it got there. He had fancied take a walk to Bellavista, but when he reached
the road that led to the Farm remembered the happy roses, and ordered the driver to follow her.
No possession had ever seen. That lush, green so intense that the enthusiastic. In his country
the vegetation was more pale.

- But most fragrant ... and women - said the count with gallantry.

The lady turned to give him a smile of thanks, and kept praising the
beauty of rhododendrons, the azaleas, the camellias were the gigantic
step.

Then they saw the roses and the count made you choose to send them some day following different
paths turned toward the door.

- Are you sure that I came only to
see these roses? - Amalia said standing sudden and looking at her.

And the count turned over the heart and unfortunately began to stammer:

-
I do not know ... The fact that this visit ... I am glad that the
roses ...

But the lady, pity, not let him finish.

- Well, in addition
to roses, came to see the entire estate, and particularly the forest.

So and can you go enseñándomelo - said resolutely clinging to his arm.

The count turned to experience new and violent emotion, first sentence, then, feeling the hand
of the lady on his arm, of vivid joy. And disturbed to the depths of his being, was showing what
a sight to see who had the farm, the great and beautiful meadows, stables, the new machinery of
the mill, the forest at last. She watched him from the corner of eye. Sometimes he drew on
his face a very slight grin. Found out everything with interest, he praised the work had been
carried out, proposed new ones. And to go and come let go of his arm a few times, sometimes
taking it, waking up at the count's soul sensations varied, but all alive and panting. As I watched
that shot him was gaining poise suddenly a mischievous suggestion that it atortolaba again, left
him confused flushed.

- Come, count, when you said to me was in "Amalia is in love with me: no could resist the desire
to come visit. "

- Amalia, for God's sake ... What nonsense are you saying? ... How dare I had to ...

But the lady, as if noticing her distress and attaches importance to its own words, immediately
jumped to another subject. He seemed pleased that he had snuffed out, keep busy and trembling.
And in the fleeting glances from time to time I threw was reflected a feeling superiority,
the benevolent irony of it is playing another mockery of office expiring to good. Count sensed
something bad under that enigmatic smile, he understood that was
rebuffed by a part that they were laughing at him and made heroic
efforts to regain his composure, but failed.

The forest amazed and delighted the lady above all else. Was a mass of heritage oaks where not penetrate
ever a ray of sunshine. The floor was clean of burrs, grass upholstery invited to stand. No other
recreational farm in the province had that gift, from perhaps the primitive forest where he founded
the monastery that gave birth to Lancia. Wanted rest a moment under that green canopy where the
light is hung laboriously. There was a peace, a peace that impressed as polite silence and a
light sleep, Gothic cathedral, but with sweet emotion. Leaned against a tree and walked a long
time their gaze in awe of the wilderness. The count was standing a little further. Both remained
dumb long time. At last the knight felt, without seeing that the lady's eyes were perched about
it. Some time resisted the magnetic pull of that look. When after his back was in fact looked
at him straight in the eye with bold, cheerful expression that made him look down. Amalia gave
a hearty laugh. He was surprised, confused, something feeling irritable ridiculous, seeing that
the laughter never stopped, he asked with a smile forced:

- What
are you laughing at, my friend?

- From nothing, nothing - said taking
the tissue in the mouth .-- Take me to see the house.

And he hung his arm again.

The house was a great and ancient stone building decayed yellow with
age, with two square turrets at the sides