 

The general was launched the same evening, and came to us between three and four morning. The
Carcokies, seeing few, were for certain victory, but understanding that the general had followed
us, and were saddened by force, and to keep to their wives and children who were in town, helped
us all, bringing deer meat, and other beasts and birds, geese, chickens, sheep, ostriches, rabbits,
corn, wheat, rice and some roots, that was abundant in the province.

Bring these Indians on the lips a blue stone, as given, their weapons are darts, spears and
shields of guanaco skins.

The Indians bring pierced lips with a agugero boy, and he a little blue glass or green cotton
dress shirts without sleeves, are quite beautiful, spin, and care
house, and the Indians till the fields and need to care what other
families.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

Guapo river and people near Peru, and part two messengers to Potosi, Silver and Lima.

We took some Carcokies by guides to move forward, and in three days'
journey fled: proceeded without them, and arrived at Rio Chico, half
a league wide.

We could not pass safely, and to avoid every two soldiers made a Balsillas, or network of clubs shoots
and tissues, where, taken from the river, we could take the other side, in this step four
others were drowned. This river is very tasty fish, there are many tigers on earth.

Being a league from the village, located to four of the river, his Indians came to meet us, guests,
in Spanish, of which at first scared us. [45] Preguntámosles, what Mr. had, and who was its
mayor? - responded that they were of a Spanish nobleman called Peter Anzures.

In this town we found some people, and some critters like fleas [46] who go jumping, and if they
bite on the toes, or elsewhere in the body, will and gnawing them went, to grow as worms, similar
to those found in walnuts. If you go in time to remove them, not hurt, but if it expands the
choice, you lose the whole finger.

From Assumption to this people, according to astronomers realized there are 372 leagues there We
were twenty days, and so they got a letter from Lima, Peru's city of the kingdom in which he
lived, and was viceroy or president, Mr. de la Gasca, who is one
for which Gonzalo Pizarro was beheaded order with other, nobles and
commoners, and were condemned to the galleys.

It sent, by order of the King, life sentence, not the general pass
forward, but to await further orders in the pretty village.

Whose detention was because he feared Gasca that if you go in Peru, and moved a sedition against
him, we would join with Pizarro's followers who were fleeing, as no doubt would have happened if we
had gathered.

In order Gasca and the general concluded, leaving this very happy with the gifts that Sent: all this
was done without knowing the soldiers that if they penetráramos, she would sent to Peru tied hand
and foot.

After the general sent four soldiers to graduate Gasca, who were, the captain of Nuflo Chaves,
Agustin de Campos, Ruti and Rui Miguel Garcia. First came to Potosi, where ill and stayed
Ruti and Garcia, after a call to Cusco, from there to La Plata, [47]
and finally to the metropolitan Lima.

These are the four main cities of Peru and opulentísimas. There Campos Chaves and sailed and
came to Lima, the President, who having heard the relationship of all the provinces of Rio de
la Plata, their qualities and people, sent them and try to accommodate splendidly, gift with 2.000
ducats and Chaves commanded to reenter the general, not to leave the soldiers go in Peru, until
further orders, as he had sent, and to ensure they did not do wrong
to the Indians, nor allow them detract from if there is food.

 Well we knew they had silver
vessels, but they were sugetos to Spanish did not dare to take away anything.

The
messenger who brought the letter was taken by some Spanish, called Parnauvie,
in order General, because it was with great care, fearing not come
from Peru named successor in their government and its people, who already
knew was named [48], and therefore sent to Paranauvie diligently to
guard roads and collect the letters to find, and takes them the Carians:
This was done [49].

and his return puts (HERRERA, Decade 8, lib. 6, chap. 7, fol. 130 in
the year 1550.) The Potosi and Silver, whose places mention is made here,
and very close to this was generally abounded of silver, said Lopez writes,
chap. 13 of his History of the Indies, and a hundred pounds of metal,
which drew from the mines of Potosi, leaving pure silver fifty: but
these silver mines were found year of 1547, as stated PEDRO DE Cieza, Crónica,
cap. 110, lib. 4, chap. 6. HERRERA, Decade 8, lib. 2, chap. 14, fol.
40, or as ACOSTA, 1545. So that, while the Gorgeous general, were not
perhaps as well known and famous, although Emperor in the year 1549 it received
for its royal fifth every week thirty thousand, and many times forty
thousand pounds of silver: and instead of wages was given to the miners,
by the work of one week, and sometimes, two pounds of silver. He also
writes that there ACOSTA such an abundance of silver in Peru, which for
a long time and he built or was coined, and was not used coinage
that was to Caesar paid the royal fifth, of luck, many think that
even the it to any third-party money, nor paid him the fifth.

However, says he played the Emperor, for the fifth, from the year
of discovered the mines, until the year 1564, seventy-six million
and since 1564, until 1585, thirty-five million.

Up here LOPEZ, CIEZA and ACOSTA. (HERRERA, Decade 8, chap. 15, lib.

2, fol. 5.) (Note HULSIO.)]

CHAPTER XLIX.

The fertility of the land of handsome, and as we returned to the ships.

The province of the cute is so fertile, that throughout our journey not found, and saw the same,
or similar, because if an Indian cleaves a tree with a hocecilla, distilled, and it takes five
or six measures of honey, so pure like wine, and meal with bread or with other things, is
very nice food: it also makes wine taste that he must, even softer, and till the bees that are
small and sting. The general gave in machined with the soldiers, who could not be here due
to lack of supplies, but if we governor would have known that provision, we had not left the province,
and easily you need to find you. Finally, forced to go back, we came to the Carcokies, who had already
fled with their wives and children, and were better for them not to: the captain sent other
Indians to say back to his village, fearing nothing that would do them wrong. Did If the message:
before you respond, the sooner desamparásemos his people, if not, We would miss him with weapons,
with which we march against them. We wanted some excuse this time, telling the captain that
this war could be detrimental to the whole province; because, if you tried to walk from the
Rio de la Plata to Peru, she would fail Bastimento those who walk. But the captain and other soldiers
despised our opinion, and maintaining his own, continued the march and reached half a league
of Carcokies, already had planted at the foot of a hill near a forest to escape if the venciésemos.
Low Sirvióles its prevention, because lunges, and kill those who could, and intrigued nearly
a thousand in this battle.

Two months later we stopped at this village, which was very large, we returned the mountain of
San Fernando, where we had left two ships (as discussed in Chapter 44). Spend on this trip and
a half, doing nothing to fight continuously and intrigued 12.000 Indian, Indian and boys, that
forzábamos to be served as slaves and I was fifty.

We learned from the people of the ships, the discord that while we
were absent, were born between Diego de Abreu, Seville, Captain, and
Francisco de Mendoza, whom the general left for Captain of the people.

Diego de Abreu trying to deprive the government and resisting D.
Francisco Mendoza, hatred grew so that, having raised Abreu with the
government, he killed to Mendoza.

CHAPTER L.

Diego de Abreu is opposed to general, and the author receives letter from Germany.

Abreu Not content with this evil, the tumultuous state, city and garrison of the Assumption,
and tried to send people against us that we were approaching our general. But Abreu would not open
the door or give the city, and recognized as superior.

Viewing as declared general revolt, besieged the city with all its forces by fencing all, and that
was really warning: Soldiers in the square each day they came to our field, asking pardon of
the general, whom he met with Diego de Abreu could not trust its people, and fearing that he cogiésemos
night, or that the city was delivered by treatment [51] (Which would happen), in agreement with fifty
of his closest colleagues and friends, the forsaken, and gave the general. The minute they came
out of it, They asked all forgiveness, which granted frankly.

Abreu, the 50 Christians who followed him, turned aside 30 leagues of the place, where we could
not hurt, and he to us from anywhere. This war lasted two years, not living General insurance and
Abreu, because this was with his own, wandering like highwaymen,
omitting no opportunity of mistreating.

Viewing general lack of calm, determined reconciled with Abreu, proposing
to marry his two daughters with Alonso and Francisco de Vergara Riquelme,
relatives de Abreu, who accepted the match.

And marriages performed with various covenants, ceased concerns.

At this time, day of Santiago, 1552, received by the hand of Cristobal Rieser, broker Fúcares
in Seville, Sebastian Nidhart a letter that I wrote on behalf of my brother Tomas Schmidel, managers
who try to return to my homeland.

CHAPTER LI.

The author's permission, and down the Paraguay River, up the Parana.

Then took the letter to the general, and asked him to leave the journey. At first the reuse; and
having mentioned my work and annoying long service and loyalty continues that had run in the
King's service, and all this time consider how Bean dangers and miseries suffered, and how
many times I put the same general life without him never stopped, gave me leave with honor, and
letters to the King that, after giving of all the provinces of Rio de la Plata, pondered what I had
served in them.

Having arrived at Sevilla, I gave myself these letters to the King, and I made relation of
all these regions, and their circumstances, as closely as I could.

Warned for my trip, I took leave of the general and my colleagues: I took twenty Indians Carias
to bring me my clothes and other things, that many more would need in so long way. Eight days
before leaving, came one from Brazil, said ship had arrived in Lisbon
John was Helsen, Merchant of Lisbon, and Erasmus Schetz, a broker
at Antwerp and no miss this opportunity, I left the Assumption with
my twenty Indians in two canoes on the Rio de la Plata, the day of
San Estevan, to December 26, 1552, and after 46 miles, we Sabaya suberic
the people, [52] in which we gathered four Spanish, two Portuguese
that were unlicensed general.

We traveled 15 leagues, and reached the village of Gaberetho, then went to 16 miles to another,
Baroti called, from which, in nine days, we got in Bered, far from the town history 54 leagues.
We spent two days there, taking provisions, and recognizing the canoes because we had to climb up
the Parana River, 100 miles, and deposed all, we went to gin, town
where we spent four days, and before was due to decay, and was as
far as King extended his rule.

CHAPTER LII.

The author walks the ground, leaving the Paraná river, and what happened in Tupi.

We left the canoes and Paraná to go by land in the province of the
nation's Sliding [53] where to start the jurisdiction of the king
of Portugal: the whole journey takes six months, and there it many
deserts, mountains and valleys to go, so full of wild beasts, that
fear could not sleep safely.

The Indians of this nation will eat their enemies. They always have war, which is his greatest
delight: when due, the losers are the people with as much support as if wedding. If they want
to kill any big parties, and while they last, give everything asked and like, and wives to
have fun, until the time you have to kill.

Spend their days and nights in banquets and meals, drunk as herds of hogs Epicurus, more awkwardly
than you can say. They are very proud and haughty; make wine corn that get drunk: his language
is slightly different from that of tooth decay.

We arrived at another place called Careiseba, also inhabited by the Tupi. These are war with Christians:
the former are his friends.

On Palm Sunday we left to another people that was 4 miles, and the way they told us that those
of us Careiseba guardásemos and although we had no need of supplies, and which we had come forward,
did not want two of our companions, and went the people against our
advice, which just came in, were killed and eaten by the Indians.

Drew near to us after 50 Christians dressed and talked to us about thirty paces. Keep Indians
this custom, have become a little out of hand, if you talk to him is not presumed he thinks good
thing.

Viewing these bad signs, took up arms as best we could, and asked where were our classmates?
- responded that they were in his village and we prayed we were to
him, but knowing his deception, as toilets.

Dierónnos a dash Arrow, and shortly returned to his village, from which 6.000 came against us. Hallábamonos
no more defense than a forest next four muskets and 20 Indians Carias, who brought me to the
Assumption, and with so little strength we stayed four days against them. Disparábannos many
arrows, and considering the resistance was futile, to ambush us on the fourth night free Indian
food with lots of chasing us. Sucediónos As the saying goes - the
crowd of dogs is the death of the hare.

Went eight continuous days wandering through the woods: so that, although I have wandered both in
my life, I never had way more harsh, uncomfortable and ill at ease. Manteniámonos with honey and roots,
and we stopped to hunt some wild animals, because we Indians fingertips.

Finally we arrive to the nation Biesaie, where we spent four days and provide us with what we needed,
not daring to reach the people, by so few. 

In this nation is Urqu
river, we saw snakes, called in Spanish Schebe Eyba Tuescha, [54]
ten paces long and four inch wide. These snakes do much harm, because
if a man bathing in that river, or swimming wants to pass any animal,
the snake wraps in the queue to man or animal, and he gets under the
water and eats it: therefore always walk with your head above water,
looking if you pass any man or animal can be.

From here we walked
100 miles in a month, to give in Scheverveba, where people rest three
days, but so ripped and weaknesses of the journey and lack of food,
we never had in abundance but honey. And then we started to get sick,
lost all forces with the long and dangerous journeys made with great
poverty and misery, and the most principal, without food suitable
to the nature, or beds that resting, because we were carrying on their
backs, as everybody knows, were of cotton, tected as a network of
four or five pounds of weight and sleep were tied to two trees and
throwing it lies in the field: it is safe when they walk a few Christians
in India, in the houses and villages of the Indians