 This unique
Morfeo exception was Sofia, fifteen years old and who performed the design his mother's immaculate,
clean, orderly, calm and relaxed intelligence.

Mrs. Morfeo had the weakness to imagine loving that Sofia was a comfort and an example to Melissa,
and following this sophistry, Mrs Sophie pulled Morfeo to the case of Melissa, when it was bad, presenting
the child as a model reverent moments of contrition. So the teacher was not surprised when
he learned that Sophie would go to school obviously only as a favor to the teacher and as an
example to Melissa and all learners since Sofia was already a lady, as they say. As heir to the
physical qualities his mother, and in obedience to the laws of the region's weather-Red Mountain,
girl went into premature bloom. Smith's youth-Pocket, for whom this kind Flower was little,
sighed for her in April, May and languished all year dreaming. Serious little men roamed the
school start time and even some were jealous Sangley Mac.

Perhaps this latter circumstance was that he opened his eyes to a comment. Not was difficult
to see that Sophie was romantic, that the class needed a lot of attention, which their feathers
were always bad and needed to be cut, usually accompanying the appeal with some ecstasy in his
eyes, which bore no relation to the service requested verbally; sometimes tolerate the curves of
her plump, white arm turning repose on teacher when I was writing samples, and when that did
blushed and threw back the curls of flaxen hair. I do not remember if I said that the teacher
I was young, thing, anyway, of little importance. Educated at school severely that Sofia gave
their first lessons, yet resisted as a handsome young Spartan the flexible curves and fascinating
looks, whose asceticism may have contributed exiguity taking food. Usually avoided in Sofia, but one
afternoon when she returned to school for something he had forgotten and did not find until the
teacher walked home with her, perhaps tried to be particularly pleasant, partly, I imagine,
add behavior to ice and bitterness to the already overflowing hearts of Platonic Fans of Sofia.

The
next morning this sentimental episode, Melissa did not go to school. Noon arrived, but not Melissa.
Sofia questioned on the matter, said he had gone to school together, but the willful Melissa had
taken another path.

In the afternoon the same mystery and when the night was the teacher Mrs. Morpheus, whose motherly
heart was really start. Mrs. Morfeo had spent all day searching and found no trace that could assist
the discovery of the fugitive. Aristides was named as an alleged accomplice, but this honest
boy managed to convince the family of his spotless innocence. Mrs. Morfeo fed the earnest hope
that the girl would find even drowned in a ditch, or that was almost as terrible, muddy, stained
and without hope that through soap and water back to its original state. The teacher returned
to school in the heart grieved. When you turn on your lamp and sit on the desk, found before
it a note, addressed to him. Took her in his hands quickly, and soon Melissa recognize handwriting.
Seemed written on a leaf torn from an old notebook, and the effect of preventing any indiscretion
sacrilegious, was closed with six broken wafers. Opening it almost tenderly, the teacher read following:

"Honorable
Sir: As you read this, I will have fled, never to return. Never, never, never! Can you give my
beads to Mary Jane, and my Pride of America (a chrome defaced a snuff box) to Florinda Flanders.
But I do not give anything to commend Sophia Morpheus. No do it for what I love most. Do you know what
sovereign it is my opinion? Well, this: That is detestable. That is all, and nothing more for
your respectful servant today - Melissa Smith.

"

Having read this strange letter, the teacher was thoughtful, until the moon raised his bright
face above the mountains and lit the path that led to the home school hard way with the comings
and goings of small feet of learners. Then, more satisfied, The letter
was torn to pieces and scattered on the ground small pieces.

The next day, at dawn, rose quickly, the road opened, through the ferns as a palm, and the dense thicket
of pine forest, scaring the rabbit in its burrow and arousing the
protest of some crows grumpy skull, which reportedly had been orgy
the night, and reached the summit where once jungle had found Melissa.

Found there linked the downed pine branches, but the throne was empty. He approached again, and
some looked like a frightened animal, between the crisp Hastened away from tree branches and
corriose up of the extended arms of the fallen monarch, and in reliance on any foliage friend.
The teacher, going to the old seat, found the nest still warm, and looking at the top to the linked
branches, was seen with black eyes Melisa. They looked on hold. Balm was the first to speak.

-
What do you want? - Asked dryly.

The teacher had prepared his battle plan.

- I want some crab apples - said humbly.

- Do not have; go.

Why not ask to Sofia? - And it seemed that she vented Melisa to express
their contempt for extra syllables to the title and some increase
of its tantalizing companion .-- You are very wrong!

- I have hunger,
Melisita.

Since yesterday when I have not eaten lunch.

I'm dead hungry!

And the young man in a state of starvation extraordinary apoyose against the first tree found
ahead.

Melissa's heart was touched.

In the bitter days of his life as a gypsy, had met the feeling that he so cleverly pretending.

Overcome by his heartbroken tone, but not entirely free from suspicion, said:

- Cava under the tree near the roots, and find many, but be careful
to say it.

Melisa had, like mice and squirrels, their hiding places, but of course, the teacher was unable
to find them, probably because the effects of hunger blinded their senses. Melissa began to fret.
Finally, he glanced through the leaves when, in the manner a fairy,
and asked:

- If low and give you some, you promise to stay away?

The teacher nodded.

- So you die if you do!

The teacher accepted resignedly terrible curse.

Melissa slid off the tree, and for a few moments there was no more
than the gum of pine nuts.

- Are you better? - Asked with some interest.

The

teacher, seriously giving thanks, he confessed that he was reviving, and then began to become
he had come. As expected, he had not gone far when she called. He
turned.

She was standing there, pale, with tears in his eyes.

The teacher realized that now was the right time.

Approaching she took both hands, and looking at his wet eyes, insinuating tone told the couple that
serious:

- Melisita, do you remember the first evening I went to see me? I wonder if you could attend my
school, I wanted to learn something and be nicer, and I said ...

- Ven - said the girl quickly.

- What would you say if the teacher came looking for you now and said it was sad without her
little student, and was eager to return with him to teach him to be good?

Melissa dropped her head silently for a few moments. The teacher looked forward to.

Giving huge jumps, a hare ran up close to the couple, and lifting
his brilliant velvety look and front legs, sat and watched.

A busy squirrel slipped through the cracked bark of a pine tree down, and stood there.

- We are waiting, Melisita - the teacher said quietly, and she smiled.

The tops of the trees swayed, moved by the breeze, and a long ray of light opened way between
the linked branches, giving full in the face uncertain, surprising
in a gesture of irresolution.

Suddenly, with his usual lightness grabbed the hand of the master. Stammered few words, barely
perceptible, but the teacher, apart from his forehead the black hair kissed her, and so, holding
hands, out of the moist and fragrant forest canopy for the open road bathed in morning light.

III

Not
so evil in its treatment compared to other students, Melissa still had an attitude offensive
against Sofia. Perhaps the element of jealousy was not out completely in passionate little heart.
Maybe it's just that the round curves and plump silhouette provide more surface area and suitable
for touch. But as such effervescence were under the authority of the teacher, his enmity sometimes
took a new form that is not rebuke left.

Sangley Mac in his first trial the nature of the child could not conceive that he had never
owned a doll. And the teacher, like many other keen observers, was safer in a posteriori reasoning
in a priori. Melisa had wrist but the doll itself was a reproduction in miniature Melissa
herself. By a chance, discovered Mrs. Morfeo the secret of his unwelcome
presence.

As a companion which had been Melisa excursions, had obvious signs of suffering and past adventures.
The weather and the sticky mud of the trenches deleted prematurely its original color. It was
a whole picture of Melissa in past times. His only skirt red, wrinkled, was dirty and ragged,
as had been the girl's. He had never heard Melisa apply to any child term of endearment. Never
taught in the presence of other children. Severely lying in the hollow of a tree near the school,
he was only allowed to exercise during tours of Melissa, who meet for their wrist, as it did
to itself, a severe duty, it knew no luxury of any kind.

It occurred to Mrs. Morfeo, obeying a commendable impulse, bought another doll gave to Melissa.
The girl was seriously curious. Contemplating the teacher one day thought he noticed in their round
rosy cheeks and mild blue eyes, a slight resemblance to Sofia. Then he began to see that Melissa
had also noticed the same thing; of Consequently, when he was alone,
he hit the wax head against the rocks, dragging sometimes with a rope
tied around his neck to get to and from school, and other, sitting
on his desk, his body became a pincushion patient and harmless.

I will not get to discuss if I did that in retaliation for what she considered a new and imaginary
intrusion of the excellence of Sofia, or because they had such an intuition of certain pagan rites,
and delivered to the fetishist ceremonies, imagine that the original wax model of desfallecería
to die later. This would be a difficult problem metaphysics very difficult to solve.

The teacher could not but observe, despite these inconsistencies moral work a quick perception
and strong, healthy own intelligence.

Melissa knew neither hesitation or doubts of childhood. The answers in class were slightly impregnated
of unusual audacity. Of course not foolproof, but his courage and poise to be launched in Honduras
It would not have dared to row the timid swimmers around her, made up for errors discernment.
Children, apparently, in this respect, no better than people older, as long as the little girl's
red hand loomed above the desk to ask to speak, was silent admiration, and the same teacher
was sometimes oppressed by a question of your own criteria and experience.

However,

certain features that at first she entertained and amused his imagination, began to afflict
him, and some serious doubts assailed his conscience. I could not concealed from Melisa was revengeful,
irreverent, and willful, which had only a superior power of its own semi-wild condition, the
power of physical suffering and sacrifice, and another, although not very consistent, attribute
fierce nobility, truth. Melisa was both bold and honest, two things that that character came
to be reduced to one.

He meditated much on this particular teacher and had concluded regular
those who sincerely believe, namely that he was a slave to his own
concerns, when determining the Rev. Mac Sangley visit for advice and
opinion.

Course this decision humiliated his pride, as he and Mac Sangley were not in great harmony.
But the thought of Melisa overcame him, and at night they first met, and such time with pardonable
superstition that mere chance had guided their feet into school, and consciousness rarely
satisfied with the magnanimity of his action, he overcame his antipathy and was seen with the
Reverend.

Mac Sangley was glad of the visit in the extreme. He further noted that the teacher had good countenance,
and expected to see him cured of rheumatism and neuralgia.

He had also molested him with a dull pain from the last interview, but his resignation on his
part and prayer, and silent for a moment, so the teacher could write in his book reports that
he issued a prescription to cure the dull flash, Mr. Mac Sangley ended for information from
the respectable lady Morpheus.

- Ornato and glory of Christianity is such a good lady, and his tender and beautiful family
flourishes - added Rev. - Sofia is well educated, and is so attentive and affectionate.

Good clothes and appeared to affect Sofia qualities to such an extent that extended considerations
about them a good amount of time. The teacher saw himself doubly confusing. On the one hand,
it was a violent contrast to the poor Melissa, in all that praise Sofia, and another, the confidential
tone disliked talking about the eldest of Mrs. Morfeo, so the teacher,
after some futile efforts to say something natural, saw fit to remember
another engagement and left without asking for reports, but in their
further reflection, was unfairly blames the reverend gentleman had
they been non-Mac Sangley attempted.

This repositioning the teacher and the student in close communion
before.

Balm seemed to notice the change in the behavior of the teacher,
forced for some time, and one of his short evening walks, she suddenly
stopping, and climbing on a log tree, looked fixedly at insinuating
and prying eyes.

- Are not you mad? - Said with a questioning shaking
his whole body.

- No.

- "Not bothered?

- No.

- "Not hungry?

(The famine was to Melisa an illness that could attack at any one occasion).

- No.

- "Not thinking about it?

- Who, Melisita?

- In this white
girl.

(It was the latest epithet invented by Melissa, who was very brunette,
to indicate to Sofia, which competed with the whiteness of the snow).

-
No.

- Can I have your word?

(A phrase with which replaced "and were to die" by wise counsel teacher.)

-
Yes.

- And by his sacred honor?

- Yes.

Melisa then kissed him wild, he jumped from the tree and flying away.

In the two or three days after deigned more like children in general, and get more good behavior.

Two
years had passed since the arrival of master-Pocket Smith's as salary
was not large and the prospects for Smith's-Pocket, to eventually
become capital State, did not seem entirely positive, had long meditated
a change of status.

Privately, he had discovered and their intentions to the trustees
of the school, but being At that time few young unblemished moral
character, consented to continue the course until next spring, thus
moving all winter.

Nobody knew his intention but his only friend, a Dr. Duchesne, a
young Cuban physician, known people of Wingdam by Duchesny.

Never communicated to Mrs. Morpheus, or Sophia, or less students
attending their classes.

This reserve was explained by the constitutional antipathy to tangle, especially in the desire
to save the questions and conjectures of curiosity vulgar and never
thought she would do something so far it had been implemented.

He did not like thinking about Melisa. Perhaps a selfish instinct was trying to figure out their
feeling for the girl as foolish, romantic and impractical. He even wanted to convince that their
progress would be greater under the guidance of a teacher's oldest and most rigorous.

Melissa was then eleven years, and then a few more, according to the laws of Red-Mountain,
would a woman. After all, he had done his duty. When Smith died, addressed letters it's relatives
and received replies from a sister of the mother of Melissa, giving thank the master, he expressed
his intention to leave her husband States Atlantic heading to California shortly. The teacher
was founded with this one Light castle in the air, perhaps imagining
Melissa found the house, it was easy to believe a caring and friendly
woman could better guide their capricious nature.

But when the teacher read the letter, Melisa escuchola as one listens to the rain, received
submissively and then with scissors recortola figures representing Sofia, the girl labeled
white, to avoid errors, and planted on the exterior walls of the building.

The summer was ending and had spent the last harvest of the fields to the barn, where the teacher
thought also pick through the ripe fruits examination of the tender minds that had been put
under cultivation and management. So the wise and professional people of-Pocket Smith's gathered
to punish this traditional custom of making the children in violent situation and tormented
as witnesses before the Tribunal. As usual, the boldest and serene were those who managed to
get the win honors and see her forehead crowned with the laurels of victory. The reader can
imagine that Melissa and Sofia reached prominence and shared the public's attention. Melissa,
your clarity natural perception and confidence in itself, Sofia, with the placid appreciation
of him and perfect correctness in all things. The other little ones
were shy and giddy.

As expected, the speed and the clearance of Melissa, captivated and provoked more the unanimous
applause. Melissa's story had unconsciously awakened the liveliest sympathies of a class of individuals
whose athletic forms leaned against the walls and whose beautiful and bearded faces peering
with unusual attention. However, the popularity Melissa sank by an unexpected circumstance.
Sangley Mac had invited himself and enjoyed the pleasant fun to scare the more timid students
with questions more vague and ambiguous, addressed in a serious and impressive tone, Melissa had
been traced to the astronomy, and was pointing out the course of our stained through ball
into space and carried the beat of the music of the spheres describing the interlocking orbits
of the planets, Mac Sangley when he got up and said in her throaty voice:

- Melisa! Are you talking about the revolutions of the earth and the movements sun and I said that
this is done from the foundation, is not it?

Melisa said it dismissively.

- Well, what is this true? - Sangley Mac said, crossing his arms.

- Yes - Melisa said, pressing her lips hard coral.

The beautiful shapes of the rails were more inclined towards the room,
and a holy face Raphael, with blond beard and soft blue eyes, belonging
to the largest rogue mines turned to the girl and said very softly:

-
Be strong, Melisa!

Mac Sangley, who until then had fixed his eyes on Melissa, gave a
deep sigh, fell first to the teacher and children after a look of
pity, and then rested its view of Sofia.

The girl raised her plump white again arm, whose seductive contour
model enhance a bracelet, bright, solid gift from one of its most
humble admirers carrying through the solemnity of the day.

Dead silence reigned.

The round cheeks Sofia were pink and soft, big eyes were very bright and Sophia blue and brought
low cut white chiffon Sophia rested softly on his shoulders white and logs. Sophie looked
at the teacher and the teacher nodded.

Then Sophie said sweet voice:

- Joshua commanded the sun to stop
and obey him!

A low murmur of applause was heard all throughout the school, an expression pintose triumphant
in the face of Sangley, a serious shadow on the teacher, and a comic look disappointment radiated from
the windows. Melisa astronomy and quickly flipped the book closed with noise. And with a groan
of Mac Sangley, murmurs of astonishment erupted in class and a howling from the windows, when
Melissa vented his fist on the desk pink with this groundbreaking event:

- It's a damn fake!

I think not!

IV

The long rainy season and played to completion. Flocks of birds flooded the fields, and spring
showed new life in the swollen buds, and the rushing streams. The pines gave off the smell
fresher.

Azaleas and ceanothus sprouted already prepared for spring his purple
livery.

In the southern slope of Red-Mountain, the long Tang Aconite was
thrown up from his seat and again broad leaves shaking its dark blue
bells in the gentle slope of the peaks.

A soft carpet of green grass, rippled over the grave of Smith brightly enameled gold buttons,
and dotted by foam endless margaritas. The little graveyard had gathered in the past year, new residents
and new mounds rose two by two along the low fence to reach Smith's grave, leaving a space beside
her. Superstition had generally avoided and the site next to Smith expected inhabitant.

Several fixed signs on the walls of people involved, within a short period, represent a celebrated
theater company for a few days a series of skits to roaring with laughter, which pleasantly
alternating with them, give some melodrama and entertainment bulk. Naturally, these ads as a
big movement among the common people and agitation were the subject of much talk among the
students of the school. The teacher had Melisa promised, for whom this kind of pleasure was sacred
and rare, that would, and in the important opening night and Melissa
attended the teacher promptly.

The dominant style of the function was that of the painful mediocrity, the melodrama was not enough bad
to laugh or to shake pretty good spirits. But the master, turning boring to the girl, was surprised
and felt something like shame, noticing the effect unique unfamiliarity sensitive nature. Her
cheeks were tinged with purple each pulse of his little heart beating, her young and passionate
lips opened slightly to give way to ragged breath, her large eyes
grew wide open and arched his eyebrows frequently.
