 If a city, town or village is impoverished and ruined, if its inhabitants lose
welfare, rest and culture that once enjoyed, blame the council or the mayor. And if a nation goes down,
you lose your power and credit, and if foreign nations the insult or belittle, blame the king or
his foolish and wicked ministers. The false it is to think of that way is clearly warns, considering
that neither the mayor or the council, neither King nor the ministers, or anyone of those overlap
and command and would incur evil stupid things, if not sustained them in their wickedness and
their stupidity, collaborating with them, if not most, the most active and spirited of the beings
who compose the nation, city, town or village. In every sin, in any crime, all tyranny, there
is hardly anything ever attributed to one. The entire society must respond to the nonsense of
power when given the power to fools, and declared guilty of the outrages and crimes of the
same power that she represents and creates, sustains and endures.

Not understand why we suppose essential, even distrust convenient frequent imprisonment or insurrection
of the governed so that they are not done, a pair of victims, accomplices of the blunders,
excesses and crimes of those who govern. What I suppose, and what I think about at face value, is
that the tyrant, benevolent or malevolent monarch or tribune president of the republic, or chief
alcalde, grows, feeds or breathe the environment, does the will of the most or more worth by
the number or energy, and not be what it is if you do not provide relief and support for this
whatsoever. Maybe Nero, upon his return to rule the day in a cultured nation in Europe, would
be a constitutional monarch afabilísimo something fun lover and friend, very generous patron of
the sciences and arts, would by his side to a composer of operas such as Wagner, to some excellent
Lola Montes dancer and a brilliant retinue of architects, sculptors, painters, poets, writers
and scholars. Perhaps Philip II, and again to rise and reign in Spain he so identified with
the national spirit and national thought then, would cominero and with no less suspicious
and no less cumbersome than it already did, but drifting stream of time, far from being a fan,
it would be a freethinker, but surreptitiously, with firmness, and seek for different orientations,
as they say now, that enlargement and prosperity of their states that undoubtedly sought when there
appeared for the first time.

Bring to mind all the above to the foundation of the opinion that I give on the aforementioned Snow
and mud novel. Is snow, if not the entire population, the vast majority of people a picturesque
and beautiful village of the Alpujarras, located in the fertile but Riscoso skirt Veleta the
lofty, and designated by the pseudonym Iberuela. And are silt Mayor or chief and his son Luke,
two devils incarnate all Anasco. But for them, that place would be paradise. The rural simplicity
of manners, cheerful innocence soft and pure love would prevail there if it were not for Lucas,
the mayor's son is hooked, as a lecherous satyr, the gentle Hope, paragon of all virtues and other
good garments that can enhance the merit of a girl. The father of this is a great subject. And
the parson, D. Serafin, a true holy man, a venerable servant of God, a model cures. His nephew,
Luciano, not far behind in point of moral perfection. Is selfless discreet, hardworking, educated
and courageous, demonstrating the latest in the war in Cuba, where he had to go to war because he
dropped the card as a soldier. Already returned to the place with the license absolute, it becomes
a school teacher, and teaches the kids so well and with such skill and affection, the boys and parents
will bless and love him.

Even before that Luciano was an activist in the Pearl of the Antilles, from infancy almost, or
almost no, Luciano and Hope were dating, they were chained by the flowery sweet loop of the
most chaste and delicate love.

In the novel Snow and mud, whose author is Mr. José Joaquín Domínguez, master, to I mean, holy
cathedral of Guadix, everything I had to figure is beautifully told in full, with rare and
pure elegance of style, with spontaneous naturally and with such vividness and richness of color
so that credit with excellent and inspired writer who does, further demonstrating that paints what
he has seen, taking it from life and feel and love and reflected in his soul all that beauty, not
only as a faithful mirror but adorned, glorified and enlightened
by ideals also glows.

The love story of Snow and mud would be so nice and peaceful, although
less sensual sick and more ethereal than that of Daphnis and Chloe,
if not, as already indicated, by a rogue Lucas, son of the chief.

He throws it all away in the most unexpected, brutal and bloody.

As naturalísimo, lovers Luciano and Hope arrive at the end of their legitimate desires, and receive
the nuptial blessing in the church, but coram popular when the crowd
and general rejoicing, leaving the church the newlyweds, Lucas appears,
is thrown on Luciano like a tiger on its prey, and kills him with
two accurate and terrible stabbing.

Pitiful is the fact. Not without plausibility, although it is strange that someone, inveterate
cynical and vicious criminal who is, resort to murder so little pretense. For more than compliance
with the proverbial phrase or sentence that says that nothing is too dangerous or too difficult to
do when you have the mayor father, is even more strange that the murder of Luciano go unpunished,
and even that is applauded by the higher authority, which is indicated and is presumed by the
end of the novel. Lucas's father, the mayor or chief, Antolin Carrejo, go to capital and tries
to prove, and proves that Luciano was a tremendous conspirator, something like a Lucio Sergio
Catilina one, and had been dead for the republic, peace and order were saved. A patient of
honest science and Iberuela neighborhood, so fond of Luciano and so bound to him with admiration
and gratitude, how could forge no contradiction or protest as unjust mess? How could it be
without correction, and grief as black crime? How were so shy and so incapable of living in Iberuela,
what size would consent horror and suffering? And in any case, without denying the possibility, because
there is hardly anything that is not possible Is it permissible inference of a singular and abnormal
is a general affirmative proposition? Does caciquismo is always a cause of misfortune and immorality?
On this day, the more bulldozers, the most sage or the richest of each place where it is often
available and send as soon as available and sent, is designated by the nickname facetiously cacique,
which is no less offensive to their fellow citizens, who are implicitly a skilled or semi-wild
Indians. But when there was or when there will be no bosses, but with another name or nickname of
denote? Since before Cadmus furnished to Greece, and even before that Saturn reigned in Italy
in Greece and Italy were chiefs. What's in Spain was very vicious from from ancient times Gerions
of those in vain we Osiris and Hercules freed Egyptian, because after this unfortunate country
ruled almost without interruption a long series of not less ferocious tyrants. See, then, how old
ailment chieftaincy is everywhere, and very uniquely in Spain and how such a scourge can not be regarded
as deplorable novelty introduced and implemented between us constitution
or political system of fashion.

Be all that as it should be, and regardless of the thesis, if snow and mud is permissible betray
any, you can ensure that the novel is very pleasant and quiet reading until tragedy occurs that ends.
And you can be sure that Mr. D. José Joaquín Domínguez writes very pure elegance and delicate taste,
and lets us know, without affecting and without fanfare importunate, who has studied well to our
classics and the ancient learned Greek and Roman, not slavishly copy
any of them, but putting in style flavor and aroma, as providing new
wine in old wine sill and generous than the old glass contains.

I would like to here news of other recently published stories and novels. Harvest as I indicated,
is abundant in this century and it was in the past. I flinch, then strain to my readers. And
without prejudice to undertake again the task of critical Another time when I feel less tired
I confine myself now to quote from their titles Thomas I, D. Jose Jesus Garcia, printed in Almeria
to Gondar and Fortaleza, the Marquis Figueroa, Floor, and D. Sebastian Gomila, edition of Barcelona
in the shade of the mosque, Cordoba stories by D. July Pellicer, Woman of Ojeda (Alicante,
1901), by D. Gabriel Miró, trifles, stories and articles, by Don
Alfonso Jara, and bulk to the Coracha, by and held in high esteem
and Malaga Don Arturo Reyes.

Today, finally, only give an account of a novel by a writer from Seville, already known scholar
and also elegant and witty poet. As a novelist, not I know that D. Luis Montoto, the writer
whom I allude, has published anything before writing and publishing the novel entitled The four
pennies. As a lyric poet he knew me and I felt much long. In the intellectual and literary activity
that is central Sevilla, is among the most illustrious writers.

With his novel The four farthings is now to register, surely among the best and most original
novelists in Spain.

The story tells us is immediately taken from reality. Everything about her, rather than fiction,
has traces of a transcript of things that have been witnessed, not
for nothing that invented, but on events and people who are remembered.

And yet, of such events and persons that appear vulgar to start the story, emerges and evolves after
the charming poetry.

Don Antonio, the main character, the owner of the four pennies, we are shown at the beginning shy, spoiled
with riches, selfish and even perverted and vicious, it dragged violent passions, but by weakness
of character.

The interest of this curious novel, what makes us really nice, is
not the transformation or change, because nothing changed or transformed,
but the emergence becoming clearer and more shiny goodness, nobility
and sweetness of the soul of D. Antonio, who is throwing little little
miseries and vices of weakness made, and ends up shining in her nakedness
spiritual, clean, immaculate, rich in caring affections.

The moral worth of at sight insignificant D. Antonio will rise gradually that, in our opinion,
is transfigured and appears surrounded by nice glow.

Your generosity, misused first, and in light women, and to sustain in leisure and debauchery
to the shameless parasite Pepe Carranza, wise leadership is beginning to take grace to love,
without any semblance or shadow of lust that inspires Soledad, faithful
and honest housekeeper.

Extreme goodness is after the heart of D. Antonio when collect child Angelito, providentially
come to place themselves under his protection, and is the son of Soledad and Anarchist Isaiah, who
had to flee and emigrate to Buenos Aires.

Parental love feels D. Antonio for the child that has been collected, but is Soledad worth of
skill or cunning to pick you up and love him, Mr ago Antonio worthy of veneration and sympathy.

And
well reasoned further examination of conscience that makes D. Antonio crossing point about
his past life and recognizing how sorrow and regret is useless and
sterile, will enhance and purify it in our eyes, puts far top of the
four pennies, that before candidly boasted, and he also raised about
the miserable and interested persons around him: on the parasite Pepe
Carranza and their relatives loathe Teodora and Ricardo, who longed
to inherit and finally he inherited.

Again, this novel of the four pennies virtue triumphs in the world. Teodora and Ricardo are
those who succeed. It can be said that they who trouble to kill D. Antonio.

The end of the novel can not be more tragic. If only considering the material and external
Life can not be more pessimistic. Soledad is helpless, and almost accused of thievery dishonored.
Her husband, who has returned from Buenos Aires and has taken part
in a huge riot popular, died of a gunshot captaining the mob.

And the good D. Antonio, no person friend to care for him, and among the rapacious clutches
of their infamous cousins, unfortunately just his life.

But the singularity of this, which proves that style, beliefs and feelings the narrator and the
skylight that illuminates perhaps the most cruel and higher Disasters can exchange the evil
into good and make the poison antidote is that Angelito and Soledad,
as hapless materially, are worthy of envy and glory, and poor D. Antonio,
who at the beginning of the novel almost gives us is the object of
scorn and laughter and fun, just to be loved and revered by readers.

He let in the minds of them must be read after the novel is heartbreaking nor depressive, but full
of soft and religious consolation and truer morality and higher. And when this does not preclude,
but agrees and arranges to entertainment pleasant to work in this class have to bring with
you (because if you were bored moral, morals become immoral, as it would morally odious),
these works deserve applause and meet business and discreetly in order to be proposed novelist, delighting
and teaching time, not annoy the spirit, without giving us a hard
time, not sad or oppress hearts.

I think the novel Mr. Montoto dutifully performed the said purpose. Therefore I am to celebrate,
send the author my warmest congratulations, and I get excited, as
far as my approval and reach my praise, to continue writing stories
with the wisdom that can be expected which already warns The four
pennies and celebrate.

On the matter of environment

Mr. D. Antonio de Hoyos.

My distinguished friend, I read with due attention to the novel whose
title you Environmental issue, and I'll tell you frankly the views
on she asks. This work demonstrates, in my view, the author has vivid
imagination, natural simplicity and ease style, nothing vulgar aptitude
for observation, and art and good sense to order then express and
narrate what is observed