 In the
edge of the canals through which flowed with a pleasant murmur of the path next to fresh water and
clear, had violets and a thousand wild flowers that gave early smell delicious. Apple and other fruits
were also in bloom. And the new grass on the ground and the tender shoots in poplars and other
trees as enamelled all merry and bright greens. The birds singing, the rising sun gilded with a bright
glow and the highest peaks of the mountains, and a slight breeze stirred the grass and bent
them to whisper the tall grass.

Don Paco walked so astounded in their evil and dark thoughts that any of this repaired.

Soon to come out of the orchards and olive groves and vineyards found, but he fled from men,
not wanting to see anyone or anybody seeing him, and took to the less frequented sidewalks, heading
for the rocky mountains, where the shortage of topsoil does not allow culture, where people
and where there is bare soil or covered only in parts of weed and
rough thickets of gorse bitter, fragrant thyme and olive trees vile,
chaparral and gall.

Although wearied him something his headlong rush, don Paco did not
stop to rest, sitting on a rock, until he was assured that in complete
solitude, almost in the wilderness without anyone seeing him, hear
him and disturb him.

Just sat down, it seems that the horrible memories that had driven from the town, which was chasing
and had been something behind, overtook him and began to itch and bite you again. Angrily recalled
the servile dependency with the interest and gratitude I had linked to the cacique, the yoke
imposed on it unnatural daughter, disdain Juanita had been squandered and the favors with
which Don Andres gave.

Thought then derision that would be subjected to by his countrymen when they were informed of
the was passing in his soul, and rose in haste to flee further and more elusive places.

Almost run down by a steep slope and came to meet, after half an hour running in a narrow canyon
that stretches between two hills forming decline. Was hopping by a stream and playing it to crash
into the rocks. The stream, to reach plain site and deeper, it expands in haven surrounded
by green cattails and reeds.

Some larches and an abundance of mimbrones shaded and beautified the place lush oleanders covered
with red flowers, and not a few thorns and wild rose hips, full of white and red musk.

Invited to the site so peaceful rest, and invited to drink the clean water of the pool, which quiet
please, curling a little, gave away the gentle flow or stagnant water was not and without
renewal.

The sun had already risen above the horizon and approached the zenith, spread hot and light on the
earth, and Don Paco, seeking shade, came to sit on a bank and began
to watch the water before drinking.

In the midst of his contemplation, he felt some anxiety and escarabajeo in your stomach, because
it was about twenty hours he had not eaten, had traveled far and
had not slept at all.

In sum, it must be confessed, Don Paco was hungry.

Looked around as if he were to commit a crime, very suspicious that someone might him, and
now convinced that his loneliness could not be higher, reached into his saddlebags and pulled
a white donut here and a bundle wrapped, tightly wrapped in an old number of the Fair.

What was in this envelope? The historian should not hide anything. In the wrap it deployed
Don Paco half a dozen beautiful pieces of pork loin, thick as a fist of Juana la Larga which
had marinated and fried, of the dressing with oregano, pepper ground
cumin and whatnot other spices, and heated in butter itself between
preserved in earthenware jars, and drawn butter and cold cuts, beguiling
creatures desperate and bereaved and say: comedme!

God did not, despite everything that Don Paco find them for bad. Although he jumped Tears overcame
appetite. Ganas also had, in desperation, that the lean poison return it, but finally, he ate
two and also the donut.

There was a time when he missed the wine and regretted not having
brought the boot.

Then he resigned and drank water, lowering his mouth to the surface of the pool.

Finally, as was exhausted from walking, watching and rage, and felt heat on the outside the sun
and heat the interior of the donut back and, despite his enormous grief, was overcome by sleep
and deep sleep comforted nap, during which their misfortunes and sorrows would say that were
immersed in that stream as if it was the Lethe.

XXX

Don Paco When he awoke from its long sleep, the sun is inclined towards
the West, the day was expiring.

The hesitation which had haunted Don Paco returned to haunt him more strongly The more time
passed.

His escape from the place he thought, not unreasonably, that must have been noticed by all and
look in amazement. He, who held many offices, would have missed in
many ways.

He figured that since there had asked permission to anyone, and as his unusual disappearance
lacking because he confessed all his compatriots would try to find the cause and would ultimately
amounts to an act of desperation or despair.

No one would regret yes he his flight back to the place, but again, compassion is inevitably
transformed in mockery and derision.

Do not be a single subject that sarcastically asked him why he had gone to make the wilderness
and why he left so soon, sorry for being a hermit. And they suspected, and no doubt which some suspect,
who had wanted to commit suicide, it would take to laugh suicide and attribute to fear that
this was not done.

He imagined that, back where I could not endure his new situation,
because he be contained they taunted him when he looked upon his face.

If it was, say, because here was something I could not stand, why again now, resign and hold?

Don
Andrés, mostly, I despise and I escarnecería, back in his mind, calculating that the leak had
been at Juanita's kisses and now becoming very resigned to take with patience and to see them
give back.

Jennie is in turn had a very distressed for the moment, full of remorse
because was or would be reason or cause of his death and very inclined
to shed tears at the memory him or his unknown grave, if she knew
he was buried and where and was not far; but if I saw him again Juanita
happy ever after, and in the streets of Villalegre, obtaining their
ordinary tasks, and in the gathering of courting Dona Ines Dona Agustina,
Juanita I would by the most vile and wretched of the world.

Juanita would ridicule him, and Don Paco shudder to think only of the possibility of such vilification.

It
was, however, very hard won and killed without just to make people take you seriously, you sorry
kid you not.

There were times that if Don Paco had had a gun, perhaps, contrary to all their religious precepts
and philosophies all healthy, had been shot, but Fortunately, Don
Paco spent no firearms and had no gun or shotgun crazy trip that I
was doing, haunted by jealousy as by Orestes the Furies.

Once he came to perch on top of a steep rock, rush from there head and made an omelet. But if
it was not dead and only break point an arm, a leg or two, do not you hurt a lot, and add pain
to stay alive physical pain he had wanted to moral freedom?

Bitterly ruminating all this, walked Don Paco without repairing the road leading up he was surprised
the night, dark as pitch. Neither moon nor stars were seen in the sky covered with thick clouds. It
was raining hard, and thunder and lightning.

Our pilgrim noted with regret that he was made a soup, and feared death, he longed and disgusted
at the same time, moisture could occur by brandishing, instead of
a scythe rheumatism and pneumonia.

In the light of lightning discovered that it had reached an extensive naval, between the peaks
two nearby hills. Nava was in the much hay, grass and plenty of intricate stretches bushes, which
stumbled, or high grass coming up to her thighs, because there was no way or because he had
lost.

Suddenly he heard mooing, and the glow fleeting glimpse of lightning
believed a large shed or shed, under which moved lowing packages,
which were undoubtedly bulls, oxen, calves and cows.

- Man of the
devil - said a hoarse voice - what do you come here at this time and
with this storm so strong?

Don Paco, hiding place where he was and without stating his name, said as they went was lost,
not knowing where he was and sought shelter in which to spend the night.

The herdsman, who was pious, full of compassion for the sad voice of Don Paco, left under the shed,
came to him, took him by the hand and served as a guide.

So were both good rodeo and came to a hut quite capable, where, fireside
and around a large fireplace that had little to envy to the Dona Ines,
but lacked coat of arms, there were two shepherds, old already, and
a boy of ten or twelve years that must guide the son of Don Paco.

At home a mountain of wood burning, with which Don Paco heat could dry your clothes, because offered
him, and he accepted, a bench to sit by the fire.

Away from it, some embers and a trivet is a pot appeared, exhaling through broken and leaky lid thick
and fragrant vapors, do not know what a restaurant, which occurred
in the face of Don Paco feel very welcome, because with so much walking
you foot had fallen to lunch.

It was what was in the pot a fat and bean stew tender, with slices of bacon and spicy cornetillas
had to do so succulent and tasty.

Pastors and friend had given her roof where shelter from the rain
and spend the night also offered his rustic dinner.

Tino blush the cheeks of Don Paco going to accept it, but it was not so rude or so abstinent
not accept it, the grateful and still take advantage of it, competing
in appetite with the drovers.

Also inadvertently embarrassed him by another style with the best of openness. To him, who was
hiding and lied, and told him what he had to tell about their lives and their sets of fortune
and the events of the small farmhouse, not far from there, that were natural. Weighted also the
ferocity of the bull that they cared, they complained of poor reputation and still had predicted
that the end had to make their way to the magnificent marina Madrid, which compete with those of Miura
Veragua and killing horses in abundance and putting fist in the brave hearts and Frascuelo Lagartijo.

After
dinner and conversation, all went to bed on two separate piles of
dry grass and slept like a patriarchs.

Don Paco woke up at daybreak imitation of that house. Entailed, for muddle through, it would
Córdoba, in this case the Cattle told him the way should continue.

Don Paco said goodbye showing grateful, and soon left the naval, marching hurry along the path
he had indicated.

Alone again with himself, the dark thoughts resurfaced from the depths
of his soul and come back to haunt.

As he pondered a lot, studying and sank into the abyss of his own conscience, sought explain the
phenomenon that it was being presented. Then thought he heard he late, until he is old, he had
spent employed and living life and had lacked, perhaps for joy, relief
and perfect beauties wander and pretend put them in the eyes of the
soul, and appeal of your desire.

All had been his aspiration hitherto modest, prosaic and affordable peacefully, but Juanita had
been in poor disturb her quiet time and sting his fantasy to soar to very high regions where,
although there was more light, there was also his soul pacific storms and only used to unwind
just could suffer.

In short, Don Paco came to believe that the late appearance of the ideal, and its almost dead youth,
and the posthumous birth of aspirations that only she should be encouraged, it was what brought
him so foolish, so unhappy and so crazy. Return to place in that state mood, with less excuse
to become that which he had to leave, he would certainly object of
scorn of all his friends known as fails to make the atrocity of killing
two or three, and he was soft condition, was considered incapable
of doing.

Moreover, and while Villalegre stand, he judged it would be useless and not worth all that
or to the secretary at City Hall, or to don Andrés counselor or to aide clerk, or to intern
Peperris lawyers.

In consequence of these non-articulated speech, decided at the end: he decided to banish always
in their homeland and go to other towns or cities in search of rest and better fortune.

Only then will be cured of their love for Juanita naughty and unworthy, to walk and walk sign
it, instead of going through the roof or swim through the ether, and without killing and without
killing anyone but still useful to others, be again respected and
beloved by the people.

Cattle Since he had shown the way to go to Cordoba, Don Paco, less agitated the previous day,
continued in that direction, because there was no way.

The narrow paths were many, and he took them at random, just trying to sink the view of every
human being because even I was ashamed of being seen.

Pray walk, sometimes stopping to rest, he spent the whole day and got his second night of wandering.
I did not know where he was, but thought it aroused in him a vague recollection of those sites.
It was a long meadow or curb, where he was to be plenty of rabbits
and hares.

The ground was broken and covered with bushes and scrub. Only here and there towered some pines,
beeches and oaks.

Soon the darkness enveloped everything. Although it was not raining, it was very cloudy, and
he distinguished confused objects. The silence was profound. The only break from time to time,
such which gentle gust of wind stirred the leaves, or a hare jumping or crossing running through
the bushes.

I do not know how to recognize or acknowledge Don Paco believed that at that time was closer Villalegre,
which was less than two miles away, in a preserve owned by Don Andrew Andrew and where Don used
to come to hunt.

It said more on this idea suddenly saw a dim light shone at a distance
darkness, as often happens when children in fairy tales are lost in
a forest.

Don Paco was brave and not tended, not be faithless, to be suspicious and fearful frequent appearances
of ruins, of souls of this world or other supernatural beings. On that occasion, however, had
his little scared, but I won and walked straight solved and the light
to see what it was.

Was founded fear in acknowledging that the light left the house of the old guard Box, who had
died the day before the departure of Don Paco de Villalegre, and there was little Don Andres would
probably immediately appointed another guard to where there was hardly
anything to save.

The box, according to Don Paco, had to be deserted. Who was on light and was in the box? Would
the lost soul of the old guard, who was reputed to have been more than mischievous in his youth
and even outlaw pardons?

Don Paco plucked up courage and went to find out, happy to run into an adventure that will distract
their misfortunes.

XXXI

Quietly, Don Paco came to the box and saw that the door was bolted he had inside. The light was
a small ventanucho, where instead of glass had drawing a dirty rag to guard against rain and
cold. With the clog cloth could not see the objects inside, but Don Paco approached and noticed
the cloth three or four holes. Put his eye to the nearest, which was quite capable, and what
he saw there, before reflecting and explain, filled with fright.

He imagined he saw Lucifer in person although Andalusian peasant dress with calanes hat, coat,
chaps and gaiters.

The face and black dress was almost motionless, terrible and huge wide mouth and nose full
of warts and a parrot's beak. Don Paco is reassured, however, to recognize that this was a
cover which put the Jews in the processions of Villalegre.

The masked man was silent and sat on a chair, leaning his elbows on
an old and dirty deal table.

In another chair was opposite another person, who recognized the point Don Paco Don Ramon Murcia
of the grocer, the richest man after Don Andrés, the most outrageous talker that then existed
on our planet.

Don Ramon was a babe, old and skinny, but I had a lot of spirit and spunk and is not fearfulness
barely.

Don Paco noticed that his hands were tied with a string on the back, and had concluded that taken
there and held him by violence.

Soon the words of the shopkeeper Murcia, so lavish of them, confirmed
the deduction of Don Paco.

- Male or demon - he said - whoever you
are, take pity on me and torment me not unfruitful.

How could I imagine, to come back this afternoon from my village to village, which extends no more
than a quarter of a league, which was to run into you and your partner,
ambushed among Hondón willow Brook, and you had to bring me by force
to this place?

I did not suspect that would hijackers in the day, and walked very
safe.

Convinced, man, the gain you had to do and have done. Do not try now to make more profit. Greed
bursts the bag. I will kill, but you it will stick.

The masked man persisted in his silence about the club and only responded
with a snore, sort of interjection that the land is used. Don Ramon
continued:

- I fail to explain to me where you came to find out that
I just sold my best came to Jerez and that she wore twelve thousand
pieces in his pocket. But after all, already have twelve thousand.
Why do not you contentáis? Being worth that traíais horn inkwell prepared
me you did write to my wife to turn over two thousand dollars if you
do not want I'll be damned.

- And I will hang them and dismember
them and not give in - said the masked voice veiled and strange.

-
Well, you can hang and quartered and without following moliéndome,
because my wife, And go if I know!, Rather than give the money to
give my life and that of all relatives, but we want and then we cry
her eyes out. Hey, have you seen him tragedy Guzmán el Bueno?

The
masked man did not say yes or no, merely to give another snoring.
Don Ramon continued:

- For Guzmán el Bueno, not to deliver to Tarifa,
the Moors sent a beheading knife his beloved son. The money is the
rate my wife, not delivered but you slaughter me. Will not do either,
throwing with the tripped this Guzmán el Bueno, is wasteful to send
you the knife, even the worst of the kitchen. And ye shall have them
without she sends him to open up a cattery in the gut. But let's be
reasonable: what are you going to get with that? Have mercy on me.
Look also for you and not be reckless. And two hours will My wife
will be missed, and even before receiving the letter that has your
partner, and I do not know how or who put in their hand, be it an
armed revolution in the place, will hit the alarm, and the couple
of the Civil Guard and many raised my walk and looking for me. Do
not tempt God more. Set me free. Let me go on my mule and I will pay
if you want wait for God to bless you.

The masked man did not answer,
but giving more snoring.

- Do not you hear that I will pay? About
twelve thousand pieces that you and your partner you have shared,
I can give you another eight thousand if you let me free.

- How?
- Then the masked man said -. Where are you hiding those eight thousand
reais?

- Do not be silly, my son, do not be silly. Where do you want
to take them? I had no more than what you have taken, but I have a
secure means to reward your good deed.

- So what?

Don Ramón then
hesitated