 He recited his poems, and listeners were inclined to regard as a holy
father, Dr. enlightened and blessed servant of God. He spoke without number and without rhyme,
and was afraid to hear it was a runaway tyke, without belief and without respect for anything.

The night following the morning when the conference took place between the Count and his mother,
Count, therefore he was moody, mixed very little in general conversation the gathering of Rosita.
He spoke a few words with her, spoke briefly with Ines, who was there, greeted the pundits,
and went to make his apart with Dona Beatriz which was apparently
longer and more intimate than ever.

Don Braulio wine that night and saw the addition to the usual serenity.

The

gatherings usually lasted until about two, but don Braulio and ladies used leave before one o'clock.
So they did that night.

The Count of Alhedín, though he had won more chat, did not dare to
leave when it was Dona Beatriz, or immediately afterwards.

It was, entering the general run of those who were there until the last minute.

Conde did not speak, however, because he was preoccupied and imaginative.

The poet, usually was the one who made the biggest expense of words when they spoke the Count.
That night the poet was in vein. Talked a lot, say a thousand jocosidades, they are laughing, and
he was one who got drunk to talk and to be applauded, rather than drinking wine and spirits.
Arthur, perhaps without having taken a drink to his lips, he was
drunk.

So, seeing the Count silent, began to encourage him to speak, throwing some poorly disguised
barbs on the passions purely spiritual about how happy and peaceful they must live their husbands
whose wives inspire such passions, and on discussions semi-divine must have that and love.

-
God - the poet said - they unties the tongue forcibly gives them a richer language and perfect
that all known that befall mankind. The charms that have them to say they find no adequate expression
in the jargon that we understand.

How is possible that the speech itself that ask us to eat, drink and other necessities mechanics,
will be asked what such love and will ask?

Even the idea of ??what they ask and get barely perceived by the
layman but a confused way back in the depths and dark of the soul,
there in the unfathomable depths of feeling with the sense of spirit,
forgetting about the other senses.

Arthur was always pompous and ironic phrases like that the high finished exclaiming

- What? Am I clear? Do I understand or not understand the metaphysics of love?

Count suppressed his disgust: it was given the hint when I could, and if he said any word was
by gravity, without following the joke.

- There are plenty of love - remained the poet - all sons of the nymphs: Amores terrestrial
they are what we usually know, but there are also one and only love, son Venus Urania, which, as
reported by the fabulist Aesop, and then many others have repeated poets and fabulous, live almost
forever in heaven. The immortal gods can not live without him. The presence of this Love is the
bliss of the gods. However, this Love is so good and pious, that hurt the misery and baseness of men,
calls occasionally licensed to Jupiter to descend to earth and bring us true consolation and reflecting
the light of glory. With difficulty Jupiter granted this license, to him and other immortals find
it extremely distressing lack of love, but when granting the license, that is one century at most, and soon,
Love descends between us, and leaving younger siblings whenever her shadowing, wounding vulgar souls,
uses his arrows little gold cross lofty and divine souls. Of these souls, and wounded, then rises
a stream of pure ideas, feelings and concepts near superhuman perfection,
they are like bright beacons placed at intervals in history, in the
dark and rough road that follows the wandering humanity.

Great news, gentlemen, great news! Correspondence not yet been published,
But be you for sure.

This has recently come Celestial love between us.

As much as it hides out of modesty, we have come to see him. It is full of grace and truth. His
glory dazzles us, but we are not blind.

Neither this parody of the most beautiful fable of Aesop Count put any comment.

The poet went more excited:

- Love the sky is hurt, as I said, some souls di cartello cousin, but after all while living here,
on earth, it always goes wandering and homeless. Choose the soul nobler, purer and more beautiful,
and makes his home there. This soul is usually a woman, often married. Imagine, what honor,
what distinction for the husband!

In the present case, the coming of Love in our godless and vicious Iron Age, the mansion Love,
its headquarters, as it were, is the soul of a married woman. Will gap and proud her husband?

Count
here and could not contain and conceal his anger. Repressed, however, the language, because
in full gathering seemed ridiculous and disgusting insults unleashed
on against scurrilous Arthur.

His eyes only denoted his anger. The poet looked as if to devour the fire in his eyes.

Rosita, by lightness of character, thoughtlessness, had been carried away from the talk poet and had laughed
at the jokes.

Arthur had been very funny, making a droll emphasis their expressions and accompanying them with
appropriate gesticulation. But Rosita came to, he warned how angry was the Count and, although
late, the poet silenced.

When the men left the gathering together and were in the street and
not hit Count to restrain his anger.

Lost all respect, began to roll all the wisdom, foresaw no result some, and turning to Arthur,
he said, if quietly, not so much that any of the other commentators could not hear:

- Know it to your government. Nor fables of Aesop, or with quotes from Plato, or in any way, however
indirect it may be, consent to forward that, in my presence, even when not I hereby put on solfa
my friendship with Beatriz. If I know you speak another Instead of it, which allude to it,
you make fun of her husband, she will feel much, but I'll break their
necks.

Count these words pronounced with such seriousness and energy, which Arthur could not slip taking
them to laugh. It was therefore necessary to answer seriously. And to answer it seriously,
being man who was respected, he had no recourse but to answer as answered

- I also feel very much - he said - but as I know, I know that I will continue putting in solfa
your friendship with Mrs Beatrice and I will continue making fun of credulity or cunning Don Braulio
whenever I please, that truce is excused or expected to grant me.

Rompámonos their necks in the act, as you wish.

A few more words intervened between the two. In the same pundits who were present elected either
the sponsors, who arranged a saber duel for tomorrow morning.

Sponsors, as people of opinion, made extraordinary efforts to cut the set friendly, polite plea becoming
the threat of Conde, and generous pledge not torn down by injunction of the poet, not to speak
ill of the love of heaven, but Conde and poet were so heated that
not even the first paved to play the role of supplicant, nor the second,
even if you begged on his knees, said he was able to shut up and not
to be cursing and mocking, as long as it was in the mood for, which
was often.

There was therefore forced to fight.

Already on the ground, received the Count the whole series of indiscretions that he had committed
to reach that end, which could not retreat, and from which all success
was bad.

Bad and if by chance dingy Arthur, who in life had taken a sword in his hand, struck him or
will pate; bad and cruel if he, who went every day to the weapons room, stabbed to taste the
poor poet, bad and Remal, now come out victorious, sometimes defeated, because of all Still,
the launch would be counterproductive. The launch was to not murmur of Dona Beatriz, and the Count
was set to make her name resound in the ten thousand trumpets of Fame.

But all this would have mattered on time and do not think so. Then there was another discretion
to be a saber.

The saber is given, and, as expected, received Arturo. For this, no injury care was. A month
of bed to heal enough for the poet.

Also fulfilled, as expected unless the other provision. It was not dog or cat Madrid not to speak
of the love of Count frantic by the wife of a clerk in the Treasury, of his crazy claim that it is
respected as angelic creature, semi-divine, and out of order and conditions that are used naturally,
and his singular affection towards her husband suffered, whose Count suffering had the impossible
determination that nobody would know or riese.

As Earl was not to challenge and kill all Madrid, particularly women, story of her affair with
Beatriz, imagined or real, but embroidered and discussed by all styles, circulated on talk shows,
cafes, casinos and theaters.

Beatriz's reputation was more hurt and that the body of Arthur, is the lance he had with him
the Earl of Alhedín gentleman, incapable, by persuasion and by the violence, to convince anyone
of his Platonism.

XVI

Among the many mistakes that I put the critics, nothing grieves me as much as you accuse me Women
always painting something rebellious and outrageous. "Who is the
author? - Say -.

Have not known but light women? Why not us in their stories to the honest and pure, which
always fulfilled his duty, which can and should serve as a model? " "This author - add - hates women
or has very bad opinion of them."

Against unjust accusation and I have to say that Clara, and Lucia, El Comendador Mendoza Irene
even less in The Doctor Faustino, without all those clothes and requirements can and should
make women an angelic creature. I will not deny, however, that Dona Blanca had sinned, and that
the ferocity of his penance was worse than the sin itself, that Pepita Jimenez was too flirtatious
and more passionate than reasonable, and not once in love knew contained, and as a gun shot
to the hair, that Mary, the immortal friend, is abandoned his passion as if I had not had free
will, as if he had been driven by an irresistible force, that was
interested Constancita, calculator and capricious, and Rosita did
not recognize human or divine law other than his whim, but in all
these women - no hold otherwise - are noticed in the midst of its
biggest losses, such yearning for the infinite love so sweet so tender
and passionate earnestness to the role of Savior and Redeemer to provide
a hint of bliss or happiness for man wanted, even at the expense of
his own condemnation, that effortlessly forgive seem sympathetic.

Moreover, I have to repeat here, but little of tired: a complete virtue you can not take action
that interested and has some dramatic, horrific monsters not imagine, persecutors of that virtue.

As
well accuse me, and certainly more so, poverty of imagination, should
not wonder I've had so far not enough verve to make up these monsters.

Matter, finally, be aware that, in these stories called secular novels, not characters should
be left as allegories of virtues or vices, but to take real life, where, typically, we see in
them a certain mix of good and bad qualities of vices and virtues, foibles starts sublime
and pathetic, which is what is the truth of the characters and what
gives the characters mock, if the author's style is able to both more
vivid and persistent reality that the characters historical.

In a poetic narrative that this is either novel, although the prose is written, a woman immaculate,
a saint, an angel, can not be mixed in the action but at the expense of others characters,
it is best to appear, without reaching the end of his robe to mud land, and end up vanishing into
the ether or up to the empyrean. His feet hardly be touch the ground.

In short, either way all is said, as I aspire to give aesthetic rules for writing novels, it
is certain that I, not because I think badly of women, but for lack of imagination and the misfortune
of not having found frequently holy - not saints either - in this sublunary world, I have to allow
me to introduce this story, true and simple, a new character, women too, who is far more than any
other of my heroes to be a paragon of perfection, but strongly involved in the events that I refer.

This
woman is a Marquesa. His title is not necessary to say. The call it by its name baptism, as if
we have the greatest intimacy with her. The call Elisa.

It was about three years had been widowed. Not yet reached age thirty. She had no children. It was delicious
and very elegant.

Not even his fiercest enemy was denied discreet, witty, fun and cheerful. Not even his most
determined dared to call worshipers beautiful, nor its detractors ever molested a description
of it ugly. Everyone unanimously the distinguished declared eminent degree. But what stood out
and why? It was not too high or too low or too white or too dark, or blonde or brunette. In
none of their there was nothing unusual features or markings. His nose was not long and flat,
not too regular or too irregular, her mouth was not big or girl, against her teeth could not
pitch anyone an epigram, but also, without exaggeration, could compare with the pearls. In
short: crushed and analyzed all the visible and tangible items of
Elisa, for example, hands, waist, feet, arms, throat and forehead,
there was nothing to draw attention or for good nor bad.

The symmetrical layout or order of all these parties had nothing either of singular. The Elisa
was unique in the set, but in a strange way. The expression his face was no doubt what was
notable, which, more remarkable, made her unforgettable for those who had seen her only once.

It
seems that his appearance was for all souls a force similar to that of the press stamping on the
bronze or gold, with indelible and firm drawing, the image that carries If the die. And Elisa
also made so that, yielding to all the demands of fashion voluble,
taking all its changes in dress and hairstyle, always kept unchanged,
immutable, the material traces of his person, as the figure in the
steel die is recorded.

Time itself seemed to have stood for it for eight years. At least Elisa required contemplate too closely
to notice some very slight on his face passing of time that had happened.

Contábanse such wonders about the seductive power of Elisa, that even the fools men invulnerable
and most precious love feared if they were to treat it a lot.

It was assumed frenzied passion that had inspired, stubborn, deep and lasting, and that she,
or had remained insensitive, or had yielded for an instant a fleeting sympathy, a hallucination
momentary before mastering his heart had vanished as a dream.

If you had raised an idol on the altar of his mind, he was overthrown
at once.

The Marquis, the husband of Elisa, was a gentleman and very comm'il faut negligible. Their marriage
done for reasons of state and treasury, and had acted in love, or had created later. The full
vanity, a perfect vacuum around baby, all estimation and confidence, from the day of the wedding
until the day of death had been neatly hidden under the polite forms of mutual consideration,
respect and cold the most delicate gallantry.

Moreover, Elisa had always gone through modest and prudent. Not cited, during marriage, a triumph
that love alone would have brought upon it.

Had I known instill or without knowing or intending it, had raised expectations that did not
come to fruition.

Until now a widow, Elisa had not frequently addressed to the Earl of Alhedín.

Verle and wish her boyfriend was in all one. She was a genius so that we would proceed rudely called
flirtation, because his vanity was so subtle, so shoot and so refined, I needed a name more pilgrims
and newer. So, as I have come to find out, because of Elisa had to enter the elegant and aristocratic
dialect Madrid the English word flirtation, which begins and even
disseminated abasement. A few years ago was a word that was silent
except in the most elegant rooms and only if applied to another woman
who was not Elisa.

Elisa began, then, to flirt with Condesito.

He
soon obtained inspire love a little, but not the Condesito of those
who surrender and enslave easily.

The flirtation leaves no trace,
no trace, no sign of injury, and may yet enter deep in the soul and
hurt her death. The most essential excellence of the flirtation is,
what I have said, to shoot darts so invisible, that the person who
shoots can be taken for dismissing, in favor augur without ever Atine
or the foundation or the testimony of omen, and hopes to evoke under
such mysterious spells that are seen by those ruling. The question
that a woman has done something to encourage, must remain standing.
On this question should appear another no less important, namely because
the woman has done something in that sense, what it has done with
reflective or raptured will? Was there any inspiration was deliberate
or unconscious