 In addition,
Fish the big liberal Union believed in the revolution was a guarantee that this would not dangerous
roads. He expected quiet and earnings, and had told setembrinos' Now 'll see how you behave. I think
what we will do the same, because the country not help them ...». And what a happy coincidence!
Almost all individuals who composed the Board were his friends. Some had to kinship, ie that
they were somewhat Fish. The Provisional Government also lacked friends and kin, and wherever
my friend turned his eyes, saw fish-faces. And before that happens, we call this philosophy
History.

My repeated requests did not deter Bringas of its intention to leave the house. His wife, who came
into my office to thank me the day of the move, she said she had taken a very modest house,
but they would make a better one, because she could not live in a slum close and higher than
the tower of Santa Cruz. Bringas earnings, earnings Paquito! This was truly an economic cataclysm
bringuístico, not induced to think in grandeur. But one way or another, the family had to make
efforts not to detract of traditional dignity and show the same foot always decent. "In these critical
circumstances - told me after a long conference that graced me with looks somewhat flaming
- the fate of the family depends on me. I'll take forward. "

How to contrive to that end is something that does not fall within this story. The new trace this
lady is not even in our fountain. What can be insured, with references well tested, is that
henceforth knew of Bringas easily and with some success grace of the painful situations that
created their irregularities. It is incontrovertible point which to settle their accounts with Shelter
and get rid of this disgusting fly, did not to strive as much as in similar cases described
in this book. And is that such occasions sets, dramas tame, or whatever you call them, were the tests
that moral change, and had to take her as inexperienced and novice.

Frankly, of course, I watched them go with regret. The day they left, the upper town seemed a
place under threat of bombardment. There was not any more than it moves, hit motion people and a
huge racking furniture and various junk. Through the dark streets not could travel. Dramatically
with the spectacle enjoyed Alfonsito Bringas, which would have liked to handle the transportation
of all in cars of their property.

The tooth fairy was sorry to see him. Leaning on the arm of his wife, walked slowly disturbed vision,
hesitant speech. Serena and somewhat majestic, Rosalie did not say a word all the way from the house
to the Plaza de Oriente, but in his eyes eloquent was clear conviction proud consciousness of their
role as the cornerstone of the house so distressing circumstances.

In precise terms the same thing I heard from his own lips later in demure interview. We were in
full time revolutionary. Wanted to repeat the evidence of his ruinous friendship, more I hastened
to bring them about, as if it seemed natural that she should be the
mainstay of the loss family, I thought I if so, against all the dictates
of moral and economic domestic.

End of "Bring LA"

MADRID. April-May 1884