 The coat that you wear silk is worth putting my daughter has worn today and
has caused the fuss. We love you, as good friends, but not so much that we sacrifice ourselves for
you, if we will continue to receive for a loss, and to be able to drive us there. Jennie enjoys
to talk to you much, but I do not talk that leads nowhere and that we can be very expensive.
So, I say with sorrow, and without thought of offending, transpose you, and do not return to look
for this house, at least until circumstances change, it is ever changing, and yes do not change, it
seems you never.

Don Paco is pricked and was stunned to hear this speech and he failed to give an answer. Stammered
something, but the resolute Jane would not let him say a word. Pushed him toward the door
and took to the streets rather than return her daughter.

Don Paco Bungler XVIII to the events of that day, let alone that
the expulsion order had just did not know which way to go or what
to think, and mechanically went home to meditate and do self-examination.

The first thing he noticed was that he was very clean. It was no crime, but could pass for extravagance,
who was in love with that girl could be his granddaughter. Having gone home every night for several weeks just
seemed foolish and worthy of censure. Juanita was, successively and sometimes simultaneously,
different concepts, as if at the bottom of it would be something mysterious and indecipherable.
He acknowledged that plenty of Juanita, if he had been jilted, it was because he had not declared
in order, but his jokes to call Grandpa and the skill that she used for him to not speak to
the ear and to avoid the be alone with him, looked tired clear he did not want to admit to a boyfriend
or lover. However, is this calculation or ladino woman's instinct to better captivate or entertain
with vague hope? Don Paco also remembered the whispers of Juanita Antonuelo and jealous. If she would
be charmed by Antonuelo, and considering that a boyfriend was not convenient, think about planting
and decided to order by Don Paco, as the best match and convenience? If she hesitate between her
own taste and what your mother, no doubt advised him?

Whatever it was, Don Paco was stamped on the fabric of the trial Juanita image, and each time he
looked more beautiful and more desirable. Felt too well that neither her mother nor she had ever
tried to prosper at their expense in a sinful and unlawful. Maybe the mother wanted him to
son. What is the daughter until then had shown no wish, let alone to seek for a lover or husband.
He had done all the progress. Fault was all this furor raised against the two women, which he had
no doubt that Dona Ines was promoter.