 For the first
After my self had to contend with rival ambitions. I watched my new comrades and I was perfectly
alone. Through the window he saw the trees small crystals agitated by the wind, whose branches
brushed against the dark walls of the building. That Family rumor across wet wind in the leaves
rose and fell at intervals the silence of the courts. I listened to him without too much bitterness,
with a sort of rapture sad sweetness of which was extreme at times.

- Are not you working? - Suddenly said Professor .-- OK ... There you ...

Callose then and no longer reached my ears nothing but the sound of
feathers running on paper.

A little later the student whose hand was my job, I deftly slipped
a piece of paper; contained a given sentence with these words:

"Help
me if you can, try to avoid saying nonsense."

Then I handed him the translation, good or bad, but copied from my own version with a sign question
I wanted to express, "Do not answer for anything you examine it."

He gave me a grateful smile, and without continued writing.

A few moments Then I sent a second message saying "Are you new?"

The question also showed me that he was. I had a moment of joy answering 'yes' my companion of
loneliness.

Was a boy of my age more or less, but of slight build, blond, thin, sweet blue eyes looking
pale and delicate complexion, and may often have children raised in the cities. Elegantly dressed
and his clothes had a particular way in which I did not recognize the hand of our disasters
provinces.

We went out together.

- I am very grateful - my new friend said to me .-- I have a horror to school and I have no
care. In it a lot of children of shopkeepers who put their hands dirty, who never I will look
like friends. We take between eyes, but it is the same.

Being together will arrive at object. The more depressed they will
respect you more.

Count on me for anything you want, least to make sense of sentences.

Latin bores me, and if it were not need to be a high school received in my life I take care of
him.

Then he explained that his name was Oliver D'Orsel, who had come to Paris for reasons family brought
him to where he would end Ormesson studies, who lived on the street Carmelites with her uncle
and two cousins ??and a few miles from the city owned property which came to him the surname
D'Orsel.

- Go - added, - we have already a class in the past tense. Do not think about it until the evening.

And
we parted.

He walked with his shoes crunching ease fine, carefully looking for more sites dry soil to avoid
soiling of mud and swinging his bundle of books to end a narrow belt
buckles as an English bridle.

I pointed those first hours, and you see the relationship they have
with the posthumous memories of a friendship born that day, sad and
definitely dead now, the rest of my life student not entertain us.
If the three years that followed inspired me this time some interest,
it is of a different nature and have no influence at all on that interest
my feelings schoolboy. Without trying not to bother anyone I became
a good student and I predicted future successes: a continued distrust
of myself, very sincere and very conspicuous, produced effects similar
to those of modesty and gave me room to be forgiven many points of
superiority which I myself did not pay attention, and finally that
lack complete presaged personal esteem and indifference and the severity
of a spirit that should observed very early, assessed at their true
value and condense.

My aunt's house was not happy, as I've said,
and I was there alone carrying I Ormesson