 One boyfriend was from age at
which point the wish until the present day, who, after many rounds and suspiretear, showing a thousand
means the rectitude of its purposes, was admitted to the house Recently Dona Silvia, and continued
later, with the consent of the father, in the same honest and loving habit. Medicine was a boy,
boy in every sense of the word up from the floor as the least he can lift a man estudiosillo, innocent,
bonísimo and manchego for more signs. From the fourth year began those caste relations, and the
days of this story, concluded and career and released Quevedo (that was his name) to the faculty
practice, playing and to marry. Worst satisfied the girl's choice, praised his discretion,
his contempt of vain appearances to attend only to the solid and practical.

As I say, if we look back Rufina scion of Torquemada to tender, we
will find better explanation of the vanity that infused their offspring,
because (I mean that sincerely) I have not met cutest creature than
that Valentine or extraordinary precocity as yours.

Cosa extraordinary! Despite the unpleasant resemblance to his father, was the handsome boy, with
such expression of intelligence in that face, that was one gaping at him, with such charms in her
person and character and behavioral traits as superior to his age, who see him talk to him
and love him deeply, it was all one. And what his magical gravity, not incompatible concern with
children's own! That grace mixed inexplicable poise do not know what to their years! What divine
light in his eyes sometimes, and other sort of mysterious and sweet sadness! Espigadillo body,
his legs were thin but in good shape, the larger head than usual, with some deformity of the skull.
As to his suitability for the study, call it true prodigy, wonder of the school, and pride and
glory of the teachers. Of will talk about later. I only say now that the worse did not deserve such
a jewel, it had to deserve it! and if man can praise God for the goods with which he graced,
rascal had the very reasons for could you be like Moses, so many hours with arms raised to
heaven. Do not get up because I knew the sky was not to drop you any brief which he liked.

II

Let
us something else: Torquemada was no such loan sharks who are forever multiplying flow for the
pleasure of possessing platonic, sordid living and not spending, and to die, wanted, or else take
to the earth, or hide them where not a living soul can find. No: D. Francisco would have been like
in another era, but could not exempted from the influence of the second half of the nineteenth
century, which has almost made a religion of materiality decent existence.

Those greedy of old pipe, which bustled wealth and living as beggars
and are dying like dogs in a bed full of fleas and bank notes stuck
in the hay, were mystical or metaphysical usury, their selfishness
is subtlety in the pure idea of ??the business, adored the Blessed,
the ineffable quantity, sacrificing to it his material existence,
the body's needs and life, as the mystic postponed all to the compelling
idea of ??saving.

Worst living in a time that starts from the confiscation, suffered, without understanding, the metamorphosis
that has distorted the metaphysical usury, making in positivist, and if it is true, as evidenced
by history, from 51 to 68, its real time learning, he was dressed badly and affecting poverty,
face and unwashed hands, scratching at each moment in the arms and legs as if brought misery,
fat hat, coat frayed but also consists in the chronicles of the neighborhood they ate at home awake
most of the year, and that Mrs. went out to their business a shawl and old boots bored of her
husband, the fact remains that around of 70, the house was already on the other foot, that
my Doña Silvia became very nice on certain days; that D. Francisco was changing his clothes
more than once a fortnight, that the food was less ram cow, and Sunday was added to a despojito
cooked chicken, that's what beans to all grass and a few days dry bread and raw sausages, was
passing into history, that appeared to stew on certain dates, at night, and fish, especially in times of
softness, ranging flights, which began at that table chops head beef and pork, salt at home for himself
Torquemada, who was a famous Salter, who, in addition and not to tire, the whole family start
treating them as God commands.

For in the last years of Mrs. Silvia, was accentuated further processing. At that time family tasted
spring mattresses; Torquemada began to use real fifty hat; enjoyed two layers, a very good, with
Blockages are red, the children were well apañaditos; Rufina was a sink of Miramar and do not
touch me with basin and pitcher of blue glass that was never used to avoid damage; Doña Silvia
is adorned with a fur coat rabbit appeared, and left cross-eyed to the whole street and alley
Dog Tudescos when check out the bead trimmed in short, that step by step and elbow to clean
it had, been getting into the middle class, middle class in our good-natured, all needs and forms,
and growing so, so, oh pain! we're running out of people.

Well, sir, bursts Dona Silvia, and wielded by Rufina the reins of government of the house metamorphosis
is marked much more. A new realm, new principles.

Comparing the small with large private and public, say that what seemed to me at the entrance
of the Liberals, with their little revolutionary meaning in what they do and say. Torquemada represented
The conservative idea, but relented, it was not to compromise! bowing to the logic of time.
Go through with the clean shirt every half week, with the abandonment of the layer number two
for the day, relegating it to the night service, with all of the fungus exile number three, who
could not already have more sebum, accepted without protest alive, renewing tablecloths during
the week, came to the grass, the lamb with peas (in season), fish fine during Lent and the
Christmas turkey; tolerated the new dishes on certain days, the jacket braid, that it was
a refinement label, and had nothing to say about the modest Rufina
galas and his brother, carpet or cabinet, or other much progress that
have been entering the house after the manner of contraband.

And very soon saw D. Francisco that those developments were good and that his daughter was very
talent, because ... going, it looked like the other Thursday ... my man laid himself down to the street
and felt, with good clothes, more people than before, until he came out better business, more
friends useful and exploitable. Stepped stronger, better man coughed, spoke high and dare to
raise the rooster in the gathering of coffee, noticing with vigor to support any opinions, as
before, no doubt the bad effect and his coat involvement poverty routinely provided was of the
opinion of others. Little by little come to realize in themselves the proper encouragement
social and financial capacity; was played, the sound warned him that he owned and rentier.
But vanity blinded him not ever. Male uniform in composition, compact and dense could not engage
in the folly of stretching the foot over the length of the sheet. In character were somewhat resistant
to the changes of form imposed by the day, and he never varied and
his speech, not some craft ideas and practices were changed.

Prevailed affectation of always saying that times were very bad, very bad, the lament of the
disproportion between their meager earnings and a lot of work that lasted mellow diction and
that habit of asking the family if anyone healthy, and saying that I was not in good health, with
a grimace of disgust with life. He and yellow goatee, mustache more black than white, both trimmed
face as recortaditos that once seemed glued to born there. Outside of clothing, improved quality,
if not how to take was the same one we met at the home of Doña Lupe turkeys, in face the very strange
confusion of military and ecclesiastical, the bilious color, the black and somewhat dreamy
eyes, gestures and manners expressing effeminacy same hypocrisy, bald least populated and
cleaner, and all the crass, slippery and disgusting, very soon ever, when health, shaking hands,
a quite sweaty.

In the early Valentinito intelligence was so proud, that did not fit into his skin. As the boy
advanced in his studies, Don Francisco was growing parental love, up to the blind passion. In honor
of the miser, it must be said that, if reproduced will be assessed physically at that piece of nature,
he felt the superiority of the son, and This is more than pleased to be giving him. Because
Valentinito was the prodigy of wonders, a shred of divinity exalted in the earth down. And
Torquemada, thinking about future, in what his son would be, if alive, is not worthy of having
conceived it engendered, and he felt about the innate shyness of what matters compared to what
is spirit.

In what I say about intellectual ability and rare creature, do not think that there the slightest exaggeration.
I say with all candor that the boy was the most wonderful you can see, and which was made
in the field of education as those extraordinary mills that arise
from time to time intended to break new ground to humanity.

In addition to intelligence, early age that dawned on him as the dawn of a splendid day, had
all the charms of children: sweetness, wit and kindness. The boy, in short, in love and is not
surprisingly D. Francisco and his daughter were lunatics with him. After the first year was not necessary
to punish him ever, nor even rebuke. He learned to read by art miraculous in a few days, as
if to bring him known as the womb. At five years, knew many Children learn things that others
hardly at twelve. One day he told me of two teachers my friends who have primary and secondary
school education, They carried to him, and I was amazed. I never saw such a precocious intelligence
and a wonderful target.

Because if some answers are saddled Taravilla, demonstrating the strength and wealth of his
memory, in the tone that said other was put to see how the sense understood and appreciated.

Grammar knew it by truck, but the dominant geography as a man. Outside school grounds, stunned to
see the safety of their responses and comments, no hints of childish arrogance. Shy and quiet,
did not seem to understand that there was merit in the skills it looked, and was surprised
that both the weights and applaud. Contáronme in its house was very little to do. Studying the lessons
so quickly and easily was left over time to play with, always very bland and innocent. Do not talk
to him down to the street to tinker with the kids in the neighborhood. His antics were peaceful,
and consisted, to five years, doodles and lyrics fill the role of the rooms or tear Some caches,
in taking from the balcony into the street a long rope to the top of a coffee maker, lowered to
touch the hat of a passerby, and picking after all haste. A obedient humble not earned any child,
and having all perfections, to mistreat the ill-treated clothes as
little as possible.

But his unprecedented powers were not yet shown, when studied iniciáronse Arithmetic, and is revealed
later in secondary education. Since its early years, to receive the rudiments of the science
of quantity, numbered and memory remained high tens and even hundreds. Calculated with unfailing
tact, and his father himself, who was an eagle to do, on the edge of the imagination, to account
for the rule of interest, not consulted him rarely. Valentin begin the study of mathematics and
disclose suddenly Institute the greatness of his numen arithmetic, was all one. Not learn things,
I already knew, and the book did nothing to arouse the ideas, open them, so to speak, like Heat spring
buds unfold into flowers. For him there was nothing difficult or problem that caused fear.
One day the teacher was his father and said, 'That boy is everything inexplicable, Mr. Torquemada,
or has the devil in the body, or is the piece of divinity beautiful
that has fallen on the ground.

Soon I will have nothing to teach. Newton is Risen D. Francisco, an outstanding organization
for mathematics, a genius no doubt new formula is brought under the arm to widen the field of
science. Remember you of what I say: If this guy is a man, astonished and upset the world. "

How
was Torquemada to hear this, you will understand. Embraced the teacher, and satisfaction I was
full of eyes and mouth in tears and slobber. Since that day, the man could not itself, was
his son, not with love but with a certain superstitious awe. Cared for him as a supernatural
being placed in their hands by special privilege. Watching their meals, not showing much frightened
if appetite to see consideration, ran the windows so that no air entered, he heard of the outside
temperature before letting them out to determine whether to put a scarf, or the Carrick fat,
or water boots, and when asleep, he wandered from tiptoe, he had to ride on Sundays, or the theater,
and if the angel had shown strange fondness for expensive toys, Torquemada, overcome their sordid,
it's been purchased. But the phenomenon that showed no love but to the books read quickly and as if by
magic, aware of every page in the blink of an eye. His dad bought him a travel book very picture
of European cities and wilds. The seriousness of the boy were amazed to hear to all friends of
the house, and there were those who said it looked like a man.

In matters of malice was of exceptional purity, did not learn any ugly that no act of those who know old
shoots his shameless of this generation. Their innocence and heavenly donosura allowed us to
know about the angels as if we tried, and its reflection verging how wonderful. Other children,
when asked what they want to be, respond to bishops general or if it rises above the vanity that bite
at physical skills, say drivers, athletes or circus clowns, those inclined to imitation, actors,
painters ... Valentinito, to hear the question, raised his shoulders and said nothing. At best,
he said "do not know ', and say, plunged into the speaker a bright and penetrating gaze, vague
without flash to ideas he had at the cerebrazo, and who once had to illuminate the whole earth.

But
the worse, while acknowledging that there was no race at the height of his miraculous child, I thought
dedicate to engineer, because the law is something of a charlatan. Engineer, but what? "Civil or
military? Valentine soon noticed that he was not enthusiastic about the troops, and, against
general law on children's hobbies, viewed with indifference of the uniforms. Well Engineer roads.
In the opinion of the school teacher, Valentine was put before concluding the years of high
school, in the hands of a teacher of preparatory studies for special races, which, after groping
his colossal intelligence, he stood astonished, and one day he scared with hands on head, and running
for other teachers in higher mathematics, said, "I present to you the monster of the present age."
And he arose, and were amazed, as was the guy to the board, and as he scribbled by entangling
and spend chalk, extremely difficult problems solved. Then he made different calculations
and memory operations that even for the experts is not a breeze. One of those maestrazos, wanting to rush
you, threw the numerical calculation of radicals, as if someone had thrown almonds. The same
was for him the nth root for others to take a couple of jumps. Guys those so wise looked preoccupied,
stating he saw no case even remotely similar.

It was really interesting that picture, and worthy of inclusion in the annals of science: four
men over fifty, bald and half blind from all that studying, teachers of teachers, congregábanse
brat before he had to do their calculations in the lower wax, and the admiration they had silent
and perplexed, for it could you take difficulties the angel, which is the drink like water. Another
proposed examiners believe homologies Valentin was Satin them, and when they saw that not, these could
not contain their enthusiasm: one called the Antichrist, and another he picked her up and put
it to the peel, and all were fighting about who would take him, eager to complete the first mathematical
education century. Valentine looked at them without pride or bashfulness, innocent owner if,
like Christ child among doctors.

III

Enough math, I say now, as I point out that Torquemada urged lived in the same Street house where
he met when Tudescos went to see him to ask that of Bringas Please
do not remember, back in 68, and I have to hurry to present a subject
I know long time, and until now never mind at all: a D. Joseph Bailon,
who was all nights at the house of our D. Francisco to play with the
game of checkers or mu, and whose my story intervention is necessary
for the development and logically.

This Mr. Bailon is a cleric who hanged habits, 69, Malaga throwing herself to revolutionary librecultista
with such rabid fervor that he could not return to the fold, even if I wanted he had to admit. The
first thing the prisoner was allowed to grow beards, ranting in the clubs, Catilin. tremendous
write against your office, and, finally, operating verb et gladiolus, took to the barricades
with a blunderbuss that her mouth was the same as a tompeta. Up and given to the demons, he catechized
Protestants, by fitting to preach and to lecture in the chapel, which he made of lousy wins
and only driven by the pea. A Madrid came when those gentle couple, Mr. and Mrs. Horacio Malvina,
put his establishment Chamberí evangelical. For a regular stipend, Bailon helped them in the trades,
casting sermons about bittersweet, quirky and annoying. But a year from these deals, I do not
know what happened ... It was a daring thing apostolic Bailón with
neophytes: the truth is that Mrs. Malvina, who was a person very eyes,
he said in broken Spanish four fresh; intervened D. Horace also insulted
his coadjutor, and then Bailon, who was a of a lot of salt in such
cases, pulled a knife as big as today and tomorrow, and let's say
which if not removed from before they cast out the tripe.

Such was the panic of the poor English, who ran away screaming and
never stopped sticking to the roof.

Summary: it was Bailón to leave that accommodation, and after rolling around giving saber,
was to stop to the wording of a newspaper very atrevidillo, as their mission was to throw pebbles
fire to any authority, to the priests, bishops and the Pope himself. This was on 73, and that
period dates the current political pamphlets published by the clerizonte in the serial, and
which did tiraditos apart; nonsense written in biblical style, and have at oddly enough, her
days of success. As it was selling well, and brought out his devilish author of more than a
pinch.

But whatever happened, the revolutionary fever, brochures, and Bailon went into hiding, shaving
to dress up and to flee abroad. Two years stuck here another Once, very long whiskers, augmented
by part of the beard, as he spent Victor Manuel, and if brought or not brought gossip and messages
of the emigrants, and brought him hand and Saladero had in three months. The next year, dismissed
the case, the man lived Chamberí, according to the neighborhood chatter, much to the biblical, cohabiting
with a wealthy widow I had herd of goats and donkeys also a place of milk. This story as told to
me, recognizing that in this part of history is patriarchal Bailon very dark. It is common knowledge
that the widow the waterfall, which appeared Bailon money soon. The establishment and donkeys
and goats belong to him. Arrendólo everything went to live at the center of Madrid, focused
on English, and I need not say more for to understand where they came from their knowledge and
dealings with Torquemada, because it is see that it was his teacher, initiated him into the
mysteries of the trade, and he handled some of their capital as he had handled the Magnificent
Doña Lupe, best known for the turkeys.

Was D. Joseph Bailon a big animal of great height, athletic, robust and highly stressed forms
faction, true and living anatomical study for its rich muscle. Had lately given again to shave,
but had no face of a cure, nor a monk, or bullfighter. Was While a spoiled Dante. Says a friend
of mine, who for his sins he has to deal with Bailon, this is the picture of the Sibyl of Cumae,
painted by Michelangelo, with sibyls the other ladies and the Prophets in the wonderful ceiling
of the Sistine Chapel. Seems in fact, an old breed that has titanic in his brow all celestial
wrath.

Profile of Bailon, and arm and leg, as aged trees, the brawny chest, and the positions he knew
take, raising a Pataz and arched his arm, resemble those big shots that walk the roofs of cathedrals,
sprawled on a cloud. Too bad it was not fashion that we should walk naked, to luciese academic
gallantry throughout the angel of cornice. At the time I submit that now, was over fifty years.

Torquemada
estimated it much, because in their business relationships, Bailon had shown great formality
and even delicacy. And as the renegade cleric had a history as variadito and dramatic, and knew
very telling that, embellishing it with lies, D. Francis was entranced listening to you, in
all matters of a high order he had the oracle. D. Joseph was those four ideas and few more
words are made up to pretend they know what and dazzle to ignore the ignorant without malice.
The most dazzling was D. Francisco, and also the only mortal who read the leaflets Bailón at
ten years of publication; literature aged almost at birth, and whose brief success does not
understand but remembering that democracy sentimental style to Jeremiah, also had its fifteen.

Bailon
wrote those nonsense in short short paragraph, and sometimes breaking a thing santa gratia:
"Glory to God in the highest and peace", etc ... to go after this record:

"The times are near, time of redemption in the Son of Man will own the land.

"The Word deposited eighteen centuries ago the divine seed. In the dark night came to fruition.
Here are the flowers.

"What do you call? The rights of the people. "

And maybe, when the reader was more careless, they drop this:

"Behold the tyrant. Damn!

"He applied his ear and tell me where this rumor is vague, confusing, strange.

"Posad hand on the ground and tell me, why is shaken.

"He is the son of man that moves, determined to regain his birthright.

"Why pales the face of the tyrant? Ah! The tyrant sees his hours are numbered ... "

Sometimes started by saying that the "Young soldier, where are you
going?"

And finally, after much dizzy, stayed the reader without knowing where the soldier was, as
they were not all author and audience, to Leganés.

All this seemed to Pearl D. Francisco, a man of little reading

.