 

After he had saluted, Gonzalo went to sit by Pablito, and passing his hand familiarly over his shoulder,
whispered:

- What is your favorite?

And bending over his future brother-nailed an intense look in Venturita,
corresponding her with something very unique.

Then both the converted Cecilia.

This had not raised head of the frame.

- Snow - Paul replied without hesitation, and in the same tone of falsetto.

- I knew it, and I applaud you taste - Gonzalo laughed .-- What skin satin '... What teeth!

- And to walk! Pasi-short, you know?

Both looked to the embroidery.

This raised his head, and realizing that it was her I grimaced with his tongue.

- Come on, it does not speak in his ear - "Dona Paula with susceptibility
characterizing glassy Village women.

- Let you, ma'am - Nieves said
.-- They are talking about me: do not take away the taste.

- Of course,
Paul would make me aware of certain red lips, a certain transparency
Skin, hair ormolu ...

- Valentina, then talking about you - blushing
Nieves said playing in the thigh with his partner.

- What a joke!

Do not worry, girl. If you know you're the prettiest! - Said the other visible chopped.

- Peace, peace, ladies! - Truth .-- Gonzalo said Paul began talking
of the perfections Nieves, but it is also true that she would continue
with all other, if not would have stopped ... Is not that, Paul?

-
Of course, had to continue with Valentina ...

This raised his head
and looked at him with mocking scowl that was funny character to his
face.

- Be careful, Nieves, that these gentlemen are out of sight.

Paul, ignoring the interruption, continued:

- After Teresa and Encarnacion, Elvira and Generous. Venturita also speak (for put it, of course,
by the feet of the horses). Cecilia no, because it is committed, and some would also say my lady
Dona Paula, that, without offending anyone, is the most beautiful of all.

- What a rascal! - Said it admired the grace of his son.

Paul had risen from his chair and hugged his mother with effusion.

-
Remove, remove, flatterer! - "She laughed.

- Go loosening his pocket,
Mom - Venturita said.

- You see!

Houndstooth ever - said the young man angrily, turning her head his sister, while she laughed
maliciously without lifting his frame.

- Many have worked - Gonzalo said softly, sitting next to his girlfriend.

- So, so - Cecilia said fixing her large eyes full of light.

- A
lot, yes, yesterday I had this pink embroidery ... I say, I think
it's pink ...

- It's jasmine.

- Neither the two leaves.

- Bah!

That's nothing.

- What is it you're embroidering?

Cecilia continued to move the needle blank.

- What is it that overboard? - Gonzalo said aloud, the higher, thinking
that he had not heard.

- A sheet ... Shut up! - Said the young woman
lifting her eyes a little to the seamstresses and returning to bring
them down quickly.

At the same time, Gonzalo and Venturita stumbled over the head of Cecilia, and they came out a
spark.

- You see there for all - Pablito said while staring fixedly at Nevis
as saying: "Never mind, I say to meet."

- What is there for all,
Don Pablo? - Valentina asked with ironic twang.

- Flores, creature.

-
Écheselas you the Blessed Sacrament.

- And pretty girls like you.

-
If I'm not pretty, passing through the beautiful and did not do it
please, you know?

- Demon!

We must not approach this Valentina; rises from behind - said the
handsome young man.

The simile, though nothing cult, and perhaps for that reason, made me laugh to the seamstresses.

- Valentina does not like the gentlemen - said Encarnacion.

- You are right, the gentlemen will not take off more than parola, lost time and sometimes
unfortunately lifetime - Donà said Paula forgetting that she had taken happiness .-- Concerning
to that, Sarrió is lost. There are hardly any girl who is left to accompany one of his equal. The boy
has to bring at least a tie and fungus, and smoking has nozzle ... although it has no plate
to eat. Nothing is hidden, and to go at dusk accompanied by a gentleman, and just around the pilgrimages
to see them come da grime clinging to them takes singing high ... Poor thing! Do not know what
awaits you. For the son of Don Rudesindo married Esguila Pepe and the pilot of Mechacan Trinity,
I figure that is the whole mountain is oregano. When frying is the laugh ... Look, look at Benita
Mr. Matthias the sexton. How cute is that compuestita, right?

- Benita is notarized - Encarnacion said.

- Writing, eh? You'll see what it is worth writing!

- Lady, the groom can not leave, if you leave, go to prison for life.

- Hush, hush, goofy, how come you got those balls in your head?

- That you know ... go. Benita is consulted.

- Look, lady - said Teresa, the brunette sentimental - the truth that we are in danger; you are right
... But what do we do? The craftsmen of this village are so lying to lose! The most and the
least happens on Sunday and Monday in the tavern, and some day per week. How many are those
who bring their wages home and deliver it to his wife, tell me for his life? If a sailor, he
is seen once every year, brings four quarters, and pulled again there. The rooms are completed,
and the unfortunate woman is dragged, working to give a piece of bread to their children ...
And then what do they know of to estimate even a bit of grace women? If they go with her one
Sunday afternoon, will stop at every tavern the road, leaving, if the opportunity arises,
the poor girl at the door, or call to hear some nonsense, which puts more than a poppy red ...
Street, street, ma'am, if each mostrenco that as God will judge me, not worth the bread they
eat! ... The other day I found to Tomasina ... already know, Uncle Rufus, who does even a year married
a Prospero's official ... Well, at that moment was a real home for two of his father to buy bread,
because in all that day had not eaten a bite.

Her husband drinks most of the wage, and half weeks, of course! has the unfortunate to squeeze
the belly ... Válgate God! And most of the night comes home drunk, and gives each sopimpa that
leaves it for dead. How often will the little girl to bed without supper and fed up with sticks! ...
Then they want that, seeing these things ... Oops, better shut up! What I say is, wow! and
to take her to the devil to take her car.

- Hey you - jumped Valentina lifted his face with his usual frown
more pronounced - no look so boastful.

Say you like gentlemen, well ... I did not get into that, but removing the credit do not come to
raptors your equal ... They get drunk, those who get drunk ... More than a gentleman and more
than two I've seen goats come as home ... And beat their women, even
those who stick ... If they do not have the long tongue, do not carry
the half the time ... Serves, and Don Ramon, the music teacher when
she came home for "biscuits night was his wife?

What you should know ... lived very close.

- My dear, I do not speak for everyone - said Teresa subsiding by the fear that his wayward partner
deliver him to light the night accompanying Donato Red, Medical Health,
- only I say that there is gross ...

- Well, let them alone and do
not remember them, they do not remember you.

Each is each, and the most and the least know where the water flows from the mill.

- Listen, Valentina - Elvira said grinning - when you marry, do you
think carry Cosme?

- If deserve the take ... More want to take a
couple times in my contempt Cosme a gentleman, rising!

- I like that,
learn, learn, little girls! - Pablito said.

Gonzalo, after a moment of whispered conversation with his girlfriend, got up, took three or four
laps around the room, and sat down beside Venturita, with whom I
used to have revelry.

Both liked to tease and frolic after the trust was born. The girl I was drawing some letters for embroidery.

-
Do not come to mock, Gonzalo.

We know that bad drawing - said stabbing a provocative look, bolt, forcing the young to lower
theirs.

- It is true that, do not draw wrong - he said softly, shaking slightly,
bringing face to the role Venturita her lap.

- Pure gallantry.

Will agree that it could be better.

- Best ... more ... everything can be better in the world.

It's pretty good.

- You'll make very flattering. I do not want to laugh at me, do you hear?

- Oh! I laugh at anyone ... but much less than you ...-- he said without looking up paper, his voice
growing low and visibly shaken.

Venturita was always staring at him with a malicious expression, which clearly read the triumph
of satisfied pride.

- Come on, you draw them, Mr. Engineer - said handing him the paper with funny despotism and
pencil.

The young man took them and dared to look up at the girl, but then lowered it as if afraid
electrocuted.

He planted the book, which she had in her lap, on his knees, applied
over white paper, and began to draw.

But instead of letters, began to draw with ease the head of a woman. First the hair parted
into two braids, then the forehead and beautiful, then a delicate
nose, small mouth, his beard trimmed admirably united to the throat
by a smooth curve and elegant ... Venturita seemed prodigiously.

This, resting on the shoulder of his future brother, followed the movements of the pen. Slowly
it expanded a smile on his face vain. After outlining the head, Gonzalo
continued with the bust.

He put the hairdresser or the girl wearing matinee, and entertained
good while carefully drawing silk ties that are holding ahead.

When portrait was finished. Venturita accent told picaresque:

- Now, who is put under.

The young man raised his head and smiling eyes clashed. Then, with brilliance and decision wrote
under the picture: What I love most in the world.

Venturita took the paper in his hands and stared for a moment with
pleasure.

Then with a grimace of disdain handed it back saying:

- Take, take, liar.

But before reaching the hands of Gonzalo, Cecilia extended his and
snatched him laughing.

- What are those pieces of paper?

Venturita, as if it had a flat tire, jumped on the seat and held her
wrist tightly of his sister.

- Give, give, Cecilia!

Stop it! - Said breathing fire with his face, made by forced smile.

- No, I see it.

- You'll see later, go!

- I see it now.

- Come on, girl, Leave it to see. What do you care? - Said Dona Paula.

- I do not want anyone to force it off - cried becoming serious.

Then, realizing the recklessness of this, turned to be cheerful.

- Come on, Cecilia, loose, do not be evil.

- What a commitment! Drops you who hurt me!

- Who are you to take my hand paper? - Uttered in anger, turning this
time really serious .-- Loose, loose, ugly parrot noses, silly!

... Let go, or I scratch you! - Added with flashing eyes and the
face broken by anger.

Seeing her in that way, the laughter that shook his chest suddenly paralizóse Cecilia, and opening
her large eyes which was painted surprise, exclaimed:

- Jesus!

You look crazy, girl. Take, take, will not give you something.

And dropped the crumpled piece of paper that in the fist.

Venturita have altered the face, he did a thousand pieces.

- In the days of my life have I seen a wild creature! - Crossing himself
exclaimed Dona Paulina Ave .-- Mary!

Ave Maria! Who did you get that genie, girl?

- Would you - plastered Venturita said, without looking at anyone.

-
Shameless!

... If not there are people looking forward! ... How do you answer that So your mother, naughty?
Do not you know the commandments of God's law?

Tomorrow I will Don Aquilino to confess.

- Well, give reports to Don Aquilino.

- Wait, wait, very great rascal! - Called Mrs. doing started to rise
to punish her daughter.

But at that moment appeared at the door of Don Rosendo with multicolored robe velvet hat with silk
tassel.

- What? - Asked amazed watching his wife's angry attitude.

This will put the current, choked with sobs, the lack of respect for his daughter.

Don Rosendo was believed in the case of frown, and say solemnly:

- That's wrong, Ventura. Go to apologize to your mom.

He knew he was distracted, absorbed in some thought, and that domestic
incident could not wring more than half of their concern.

However, to see the girl still in haughty and dismissive, he said again, more firmly

- Come, daughter, go to ask for forgiveness, because you have offended.

The girl made his peculiar grimace of contempt in his lips, and whispered softly:

- Yes, that's what I'm thinking!

- Go, Ventura, what muttering there? Go, before I get angry.

- Go, go, Venturita. Go there. Do not be so - he said under his seamstresses.

- I do not want. Will you leave me alone? - She answered quietly, too, but with angry tone.

- Do not want to go? - Asked Don Rosendo with severely affected .-- Do not you want to go?

The girl stood motionless and silent.

- Then get out of here now! Get out of my sight!

Venturita rose from his chair, went through the middle of the upright
and sulking competition, and went the room making a big bang.

Don Rosendo, after remaining motionless for a moment with eyes fixed on the door where his
daughter had gone, he turned, saying:

- I'm sorry to be so strong with my daughters ... but sometimes no choice.

VII

THAT IS OF TWO TRAITORS

Sudden blurred pseudomarítima his noble face the fearful expression that darkened and appeared
distracted again that another sign of constant meditation.

- Gonzalo, if you do not mind, I ask you to pierce me at the office - said addressing to his future
son.

This, that during the previous scene was pale and returned to his being repeatedly turned at
confusing. Nothing less struck him that Rosendo was unaware of the instability their feelings
of love, and I would ask it close consideration. Was, therefore, behind his head bowed and
suspicious, and entered the desktop. It was a spacious room, furnished with rich merchant class:
large solid mahogany table, mahogany cabinets, too, where there bundles
of papers more than books, velvet carpet, couches lined with brocade,
and massive silver inkstand as a monument.

About a quarter of this camera ocupábalo a lot of packets wrapped in several colors, to whoever
first Once entered into it, would be a mystery. Gonzalo was not for or to any of the intimate
of the house. Those packages kept toothpicks.

How? - Ask the reader .-- Don Rosendo Belinchón, a dealer in both stem, traded also on toothpicks?
No, Don Rosendo not traded with them, make them. And this not to speculate, unworthy of its
kind, but pure and selfless inclination of his spirit. From a very
young man had told him.

The regulars trade occupations and the vicissitudes through which he passed his existence, had
not consented to meet this passion but in a materially poor at times lost. But since she could leave
the desktop to some of the faithful entrusted dependent entregóse full heart and soul a distraction
so helpful and honest. In the morning at the store Graells, in the afternoon Saloncillo in the
evening at home or in the Don Pedro Miranda, always working. His servant occupied much of the day in
court a few blocks of dry hazel perfectly equal, where his right hand had to take the show
of the sticks.

And was not about to rest, even on holidays, production was excessive. There were not enough consumers
in the village, and saw packages needed to recall them friends of the capital, when the pile
reached the ceiling clearance. Thanks to the efforts noblest of the clear representative of their
trade, we can proudly say that Sarrio in this interesting field of
progress, was at the height of the big cities.

No other Spanish town or foreign competition could suffer with it. Home of the rich, as in the artisan,
never missing a well-stocked toothpick, undisputed testimony the refined culture of its inhabitants.

Rosendo
said a couch to his son in infancy, and he was frightened and let himself fall into it sinking
deeply. After the trader approached a chair with an air of mystery, and sitting front of the
young and looking between smiling and embarrassed, he said, giving the same time a pat on the
thigh

- Let's see, Gonzalito: how about the issue of slaughter?

- Is the slaughter? - Said it opened his eyes wide as fists.

- Yes, the new slaughterhouse, do you think should be placed in the dump, or on the beach of Meanas
behind the houses of Don Rudesindo?

Gonzalo saw heaven opened, and,
smiling with pleasure, he replied:

- I believe that the Meanas beach
would be nice ... Very open that ... well ventilated ...

But noting
that his father's forehead was wrinkled, and her eyes suddenly subsided
smile, said stammering:

- Nor do I think it would be wrong with the
spring ...

- Much better, Gonzalo ... Infinitely better!

- Can,
can.

- Man, so it may be, I will tell you privately that the location
on the beach I judge (Please save me the reservation on this opinion),
I judge ... a veritable folly ... u-na do-da-de-ra in-sen-sa-skinned
- all the best pointing repeated syllables.

- And this opinion of
mine - he said - do not go to refiguring it yesterday morning, but
throughout life. Since I was able to understand certain things, I
realized that the slaughterhouse would not be where is today. In a
word, that should be moved. Where? An inner voice always told me that
the dump. Before you can give any scientific reason, I was as convinced
as that there was now located, and not elsewhere. Now that the resolution
of the problem approaches, I think I have to hold this view, to communicate
my thoughts to the people and the result of my musings. If you do
not have to do I will read your letter I am writing Progress on this
occasion the Lancia. 

And indeed, without waiting for the answer
to Gonzalo, he went to the table, picked up a specification paper
that was on it, put on his glasses, and stood on the balcony gave
beginning, not without some emotion that is reflected by the voice,
reading the letter.

Commercial paper was written in large, striped.
All that for years led the Advancement of Lancia and other newspapers
in the capital of the province, were written in the same role on both
sides. Although he did not know that the press was written by a only.
But soon acquired this precious knowledge, as we shall see.

Almost
simultaneously with that of toothpicks Rosendo was born in Belinchón
the fans to write press releases to newspapers: that is, dating from
a remote antiquity. Ardent supporter of human progress, reforms at
all levels, from the discussion and light, it is clear that the press
had to command respect and enthusiasm. Newspapers had always been
an essential element of their existence. He was signed to many national
and foreign, because, as taught to trade, was well acquainted with
French and English and had never missed, even in the busiest days,
a couple of hours to spend to read. These times are significantly
increased for some years, but not that it would suffer by cod. The
enjoyment that our hero felt in the morning after taking the chocolate
swallowing the substantive articles of the national flag, the Loose
Politics and the Nouvelles à la main of Figaro was so vivid, it was
printed long in the face until the radiation was being lost in the
atmosphere.

Like all men of broad and lofty view, it was not exclusive
in their tastes newspaper. He loved the daily newspaper, as a kind
shows the progress of human reason or as he put it best, "a demonstration
raised public awareness." Opinions which each defended, were a secondary.
I was subscribed to newspapers in all colors, and equally enjoyed.
If you showed any predilection, it was only for the items loose meaning.
Because that's saying one thing and pretending to express the opposite
twist phrases so that a clause carry innocent appearance in a "poisoned
arrow" was in awe of Don Rosendo and drove him crazy with joy. Read
many times The Spain one paragraph with the style: - "Yesterday it
was finally the circular of the President Supreme of their subordinates.
Congratulations to General O'Donnell, president of this situation
liberal, Mr. Negrete, who has given a lucid moment atop a colossal
work, and Democrat protection of this Government "- had exclaimed
waving a newspaper in his hands: - What intention! Caracoles! What
intention