 

PRODIGAL SON OF MR THOMAS

Everyone knew that Mr. Thomas was looking for his son, and indeed
this was a good knave.

So it was no secret to his traveling companions, who came to California
with the sole to effect its capture.

Frankly and honestly, we put the father-to-date and the physical peculiarities, as the moral
failings of the absent child.

- It told you of a young Red-Dog hanged for stealing a reef? - Said one day Mr Thomas to a
steam passenger .-- Do you remember the color of your eyes?

- Black
- said the passenger.

- Ah, - said Mr. Thomas, as he refers to a
mental memo - the eyes of Carlos were blue.

And walked away immediately. Perhaps as little sympathetic system or for such investigations Western
willingness to take a joke any principle or sentiment that is displayed
with excessive persistence, Mr Thomas's research on the subject awoke
the mood of the passengers of the ship.

Privately Circulose including a free listing on this Carlos, addressed to Jailers and Guardian,
and everyone remembered seeing Carlos in painful circumstances, but on behalf of my countrymen
I must confess that, when it emerged that a large sum earmarked Thomas to justify the project,
just quietly followed the jokes, and nothing was said, while he could hear, he was able to grieve
the heart of a father, or to endanger the benefit they could expect the pranksters of all stripes.
The proposition of Mr. Adolfo Tibet made jokingly, to establish a
company in partnership, with the aim of finding the Young lost, won,
in principle, favorable reception.

Psychologically considered, the character of Mr. Thomas was not polite nor worthy of attention. His background,
as he himself informed a day at the table, denoting a temperament practical, even in the midst
of his escapades.

He had a rough youth and middle age and willing, during which he had buried his wife dislikes,
and forced to engage your child, suddenly felt a strong vocation
for the cloister.

- The New Orleans grabbed the year 59 - he said
Mr. Thomas, as he refers to a epidemic .-- Pásenme chops!

Perhaps this was the practical temperament that sustained him in his seemingly fruitless inquiry. No
possessed signs of the whereabouts of his fugitive son, much less
evidence of its existence.

With the confusing and vague memory of a boy of twelve years, waiting now identify adult man.

However, he succeeded. What is never said how they got away with it. There are two versions Event.
According to one, Mr. Thomas, visiting a hospital, he discovered his son, thanks to a particular
song, who sang a sick delusional, dreaming of his childhood. This version, leading to wide field
was the most delicate feelings of the heart, became very popular, and narrated by the Rev. Mr. Esperaindeo
after returning from his tour California, never ceased to please
the audience.

The other, less simple, is that I will adopt here, and, therefore, I must tell it to stop
it deserves.

It was after Mr. Thomas gave up looking for her son among the number of live and was devoted to
examining the cemetery and carefully inspect the cold gravestones cemeteries. A day care visited
the isolated mountain top gloomy, quite dry and in its original isolation, and seems even drier
by whitish marbles that San Francisco granted asylum to those who were its citizens, and protects
them a furious wind and persistent, which is determined to spread their remains, held under the shifting
sand seems to refuse to shelter them. Against the wind, the old one will oppose no less fierce
and tenacious.

All day spent with his head hard and gray, covered by a high hat
mourning, sunk up to their ears, reading aloud the funerary inscriptions.

The Citation Scriptures liked and was happy to corroborate them with
a Bible handbook.

- That one is the psalms - said one day to a nearby
undertaker.

The silent questioned.

Without flinching in the least, Mr. Thomas slipped into the open grave,
engaging in questioning more determined.

- Have you ever encountered
in their profession with a certain Carlos Thomas?

- The devil take
Thomas! - Undertaker coldly replied.

- If you did not think religion
will already have done - the old man said, climbing out of the grave.

Perhaps this occasion to give Mr. Thomas takes more time out of the ordinary cemetery. Upon
returning from the front to the city, began to shine before it lights, and a strong wind, the
fog was sensitive, and impelled him forward, and as placed in ambush attacked him annoying from
the deserted streets of the suburbs. In one of these bends otherwise undefined and no less evil,
fell upon him with blasphemy, facing a gun and requiring the money or your life. But he found a
will iron and steel wrist: aggressor and attacked rolled seized by the soil in the same Instantly,
the old man stood up, taking a hand gun and was able to snatch with the other arm stretched out
holding the throat of a sullen young savage countenance which sought
to shed superhuman efforts.

- Young - Mr. Thomas said, pressing her
thin lips .-- What is your name?

- Thomas!

The fierce old man's hand slipped from the neck to the arm of his prisoner, but not reduce
the pressure under which he had seized.

- Carlos Thomas, come with me - he said then.

She took her captive and the hotel he was staying.

What took place there has not leaked out, but the next morning it was learned that Mr. Thomas had given
to the prodigal son.

However, neither the appearance of the manners of the young justified a keen observer the previous
narrative. Serious, reserved and dignified, and addicted body and soul to his newfound father,
accepted the benefits and responsibilities of their new status with
a certain air of formality, which resembled that needed to society
of San Francisco and she threw him.

Some wanted to dismiss this quality as a tendency to "sing psalms",
others saw in it the qualities inherited from the father, and were
ready to prophesy for the child it takes age, but everyone agreed
that it was compatible with the habits of doing money, in which father
and son had agreed in a unique way.

And yet, the old man appeared who was not happy.

Perhaps because the realization of their wishes he had left without a practical mission, perhaps,
and this is most likely, had little love for the son he had so fortunately recovered. The obedience
required of him, he was willingly granted, the conversion that had his whole soul was full,
and yet, none of this will satisfy his spirit. There complied with all requirements of their religious
duty to redeem his son, and yet, it seemed that something was missing his brilliant action.
In such a doubt, the parable of leyose Prodigal Son, who had never
lost sight of in their pilgrimage, and noted that there omitted the
final feast of reconciliation.

There seemed to be offered anything better than the desired quality the formal sacrament between
him and his son so that a year after onset Charles, was prepared to give a sumptuous feast.

- Gather, call everyone, Carlos - he said solemnly, - to let everyone
know that I have out of the depths of iniquity and the company of
pigs and women lost and Send them to eat, drink and rejoice.

I do not know if the old man had for this other reason, not analyzed yet.

The beautiful house that had built on the sandy hills, seemed lonely
sometimes and sad.

Often caught himself trying to rebuild with serious features Carlos those of one boy whose
vague recollection served him well in the past and today both worried. We imagined that this was
a sign that old age is approaching and with it a new children.

One day in her ceremonial hall gave face to face with a child of one of the servants, who ventured
to get there, and wanted to take her in his arms: but the boy fled
to his sullen and wrinkled face.

For all this, it seemed very appropriate to gather at home the good society San Francisco,
and between that exposure of young girls choose the partner of his son. Then have a grandson,
a child who raise from the beginning and who would love, as no Carlos loved.

Needless to say, we all went to the banquet.

Distinguished society that came equipped with animation that exuberance, joy and verve, without
restraint or respect for host, that most distributed as generous as possible, mainly at the expense
of the festivities. The thing had ended with scandal, actors do not
belong to higher social scale.

Indeed, Mr. Tibet, endowed by nature with witty humor and also excited
by the bright eyes of the girls Jonnes, behaved in a manner that attracted
the serious eyes of Don Carlos Thomas, who approached him, saying
almost in his ear:

- It seems that you feel bad, Mr. Tibet; let me
drive his carriage.

(Hold on dog, and I cast out the window). Around here, if you like, the room is heated and
perhaps to be harmful.

Needless to say, only a part of this speech was noticeable to society
and the rest reported Mr Tibet, feeling in his soul that his sudden
illness will deprived of what the most eccentric of the girls Jonnes,
christened "the bouquet end of the party ', and I will refer.

The event was saved for the final dinner.

Mr. Thomas was probably blind eye to the disorderly conduct of young people, absorbed in meditation
dramatic effect was in incubation.

At the time of getting the cloth, stood up and knocked on the table
solemnly.

Among girls Jonnes, began a little cough which infected all that
side of the table.

Carlos Thomas, from one end of it, looked up with tender expectation.

-
Going to sing a hymn.

- Going to pray.

- Silence!

Is a speech!

These voices turned to the room.

And Mr. Thomas began:

- One year ago today, brothers and sisters
in Christ - said with severe pause, - a year meets Today, my son returned
to run the swamps of vice and health spending their daughters sin.

The laughter stopped abruptly.

- See him now, Carlos Thomas, arise!

Carlos Thomas obeyed.

- Today a year ago and can now contemplate.

In truth, the prodigal son was a beautiful, standing there with his severe suit fashion. A repentant
prodigal, with sad eyes and obediently turned to look hard and nasty the author of his days.

Miss Smith, a cocoon of fifteen years, felt in the depths of her pure
loquillo heart an involuntary movement of sympathy for him.

- Fifteen
years ago he left my house - said Mr. Thomas, - made a spendthrift
and a rake.

But I myself was a man of sin ... Oh, friends in Christ! A man of anger and .--(« grudge Amen
"- said most of the Jonnes). But, praise God, I escaped from my own cholera. Five years I got
the peace that surpasses human understanding.

Do you have, friends?

A subcoro of "no, no, by the girls, and a" come the watchword "for the lieutenant, Coxe, of
the sloop of war the United States, The Terror, served response.

- "Knock and it shall be opened." And when I discovered the error of my way and the preciousness
of grace - continued Mr. Thomas - came to give it to my dear offspring.

I searched land and sea not faint. I did not expect him to come to me, which might have done,
to justify myself the book of books in hand, but I looked him in the mud, including pigs, y. .. (The
end of the sentence was lost by the friction of the dresses of the
ladies to retire).

Works Brothers in Christ, is my motto, "know them by their works" and there are mine, everyone
can judge the light of day.

And in saying this, Mr Thomas, gesticulating and making strange faces, staring towards an open
door to the terrace was crowded with onlookers little raised and turned now the scene of an
infernal tumult.

Amid the noise, ever increasingly, a man miserably dressed and drunk
as a soup, made his way through between those who opposed him, and
entered the room with no way secure.

The sharp contrast between the fog and the darkness outside and the
glare and heat inside dazzled him, so in his stupor he took off his
battered hat and passed one or two times before his eyes, as he maintained,
although with little security, against the back of a couch.

Suddenly his roving eye fell on the pale face of Charles Thomas, and a flash of intelligence and
weak child falsetto laugh, and fell forward, agarrose at the table,
brought down the glasses, and finally dropped to the young man's chest.

-
Carlos!

Rogue Caramba! How are you?

- Silence! Sit!

Shut up! - Said Carlos Thomas, struggling to rid themselves quickly
the embrace of his untimely visit.

- Look at him! - Continued the
stranger, ignoring the warning and most carefree.

And loving and expressive tone of admiration, and retaining the poor
Carlos with shaky wrist full of tenderness, he continued:

- Behold,
then, that rascal!

Carlos, God damn me, I'm proud of you!

- Get out of the house! - Mr. Thomas said, rising with the menacing
and cold stare of his gray eyes, and summoning of authority .-- Carlos,
how dare you ...

- Calm down, old man!

Carlos, who is that guy going? Run!

- Shut up, fool! Come, take this! - And with nervous hands full of liquor Carlos Thomas Drink
a glass .-- and go, until tomorrow ... anywhere, but let us, go away
and leave us in peace.

But before he could drink the miserable, old, white with rage, rushed
on the intruder, and grabbing it with his powerful arms and dragging
it through the group of frightened diners around them, reached the
door wide open by the servants, when Carlos Thomas exclaimed, with
an anguished cry:

- Stop!

Strikes the elderly.

Through the door wide open, the fog and the wind carried inside a cold snap.

- What does this - he asked, turning to Charles her angry face.

- Nothing!

But stop, I beg ... Wait until tomorrow, but not tonight. Not right. Please. For the love of God, do
not you do that.

In the tone of the voice of the young, or perhaps contact fighting between their miserable powerful
arms, he had a something indefinable and strange.

Anyway, a confusing terror and indefinable seized the old man's heart,
which he whispered wild:

- Who is this guy?

Carlos did not answer.

- Behind all! - A voice of thunder cried Mr. Thomas to the guests around him .-- Charles Come here!
I say to you, I ... I ... I ... I pray ... tell me who this man. Now same.

Two people, just heard the answer that came out, weak and broken, lips Charles Thomas

- IS YOUR CHILD.

* * * * * * *

The next day, when the sun had passed the barren sand hills, the guests had disappeared from
the festive halls of Mr. Thomas. The lights were still burning pale Banquet sad in deserts and
in the midst of this neglect, only three people huddled squeezed into a corner of the cold room,
forming a mass. The one lying on a couch I slept the sleep of drunkenness,
she sat at his feet we've known for Carlos Thomas and with both shrunken
and reduced to half its size figure of Mr. encorvábase Thomas, a sullen
look, elbows on knees and hands covering her ears, as to avoid the
sad, pleading voice that seemed to fill the areas of the room.

-
Well known to voluntarily not use artifice to deceive you.

The name I gave that night was the first thing that came to mind, just a name whom I thought dead,
the companion of my life dissolute libertine.

When I later you asked, I used the knowledge that he had acquired, to soften your heart and
win it for a decent life. I swear I just went for it!

And when I say who was opened for the first time I saw before me
a new life ... then ... then ... Oh, sir! yes, I was hungry, naked
and without appeal, if he steal his pocket, I felt lonely in the world,
unhappy and desperate, when I wanted to steal the tenderness of a
father in pain.

The old man remained stolid.

From their sumptuous bed, the prodigal son recovered snoring confidently.

- I had no father could claim.

I never knew another home that I had to now.

I fell into temptation.

I was so happy ... so happy!

He stood up and stood before the old.

- No matter I stand between your child and inheritance. I depart today from this place ever
return. The world is large, and, thank goodness, I now earn an honest living. Goodbye! Will not
you take my hand? ... Sea Goodbye

And he turned to leave. But when it came to the door, fell suddenly, and raising both hands
the grizzled old man's head, kissed a few more times with effusion.

- Carlos!

There was no response.

- Carlos!

The old man sat up trembling and swaying weakly ran to the door. Was open. For it came the tumult
of a great city that wakes up, and among this crowd the footsteps of the prodigal son who were lost
in the distance, forever.

MAGDALENA

The car slid painfully down the narrow road, giving frequent shocks. In Inside were seven people
who had not taken off the lips from one of those jumps came to leave
without finishing the final round of court poetry, my honorable neighbor.

Man high sitting next to him, slept with his arm hanging past the belt, and supported the head it
was like a soft object, indefinable, it seemed that it had hanged to himself, and he had cut the
rope that had been instrumental. On the seat later, the French lady dozing too, keeping an attitude
of studied restraint, view was put in the position of the dropped handkerchief on his face
half hidden ruddy face. Another lady from Virginia City, traveling with her husband, lay in
a corner, wrapped in a sea of ??ribbons, fur and coats completely flooded him. No perceived noise
but the grating of the wheels and the rain beating the imperial when suddenly the coach stopped,
and heard voices coming up confused us. The driver held a live conversation with someone on
the road, we thought dialogue unflattering should be judged by the
words in the midst of the furious wind blowing we saw, "dragged bridge
',' flooded road," "step impossible and the like.

The most absolute silence reigned for a moment, then launched a mysterious
voice from the road this advice:

- Test at home in Magdalena.

By giving the vehicle a sharp turn, we could glimpse the front horses,
and then a rider who faded into the mist. Undoubtedly, started for
the house Magdalena.

Who was and where was Madeleine? The Judge,
our authority, said he did not remember that name, and that he knew
the entire country, the Canadian traveler would have thought that
Magdalena inn, but all I really knew was that the floodwaters had
cut us the way to the front and back, and that Magdalene was saving
our table. For space of ten minutes we were flooded by a winding road,
barely wide for diligence, and stopped in front of a barred gate and
aforrada, set to a large wall about six feet tall. This was, without
doubt, the home of Magdalena. But no doubt also, that woman had no
inn. The driver got out and fumbled the door I was firmly closed.

-
Magdalena! Magdalena!

Nobody answered.

- Magdalena! You, Magdalena!
- Continued the coachman increasingly evident irritation.

- Magdalena!
- Email persuasively added .-- Oh, Magdalene