 Count imagined understand him, respected him and would not abuse their
friendship even if it could. In this way, therefore recognizing the greater capacity Count to seduce
you in all other, less feared by the Conde seduction.

They were not those of like-minded coterie of Rosita.

No hatred, no desire to harm, by pure light and cheerful malice, whatever is supposed to assume,
based on the following data.

The count, which should have gone to Biarritz, had withdrawn its issuance and had spent in Madrid
throughout the summer.

Very often spoke in long Beatriz apart.

We knew that came to her house.

The Count was not known love, did not designate the scandalous chronicle, or society elegant, or between
people of the middle class, and between the dancers and actresses, no he had held captive in
their networks.

On the subject of much worth, so handsome and always lucky with women, were inexplicable this
solitude loving, if not some supposed hidden passion.

Passion therefore assumed.

And once granted, is also meant he could not but be reciprocated.

The lack of evidence that there was, the anger of the Count when they began to tease with Dona
Beatriz, their categorical denials and respect and consideration that was ceremoniously in public
this woman, all served only to be amazed at the wonderful friends
dissimulation of prudence and noble noble secret of that happy mortal.

Rosita, whom the Count all trusted him, he wanted not infrequently
find, secretly and to herself, the truth of the case.

The Count denied that there was no case Rosita that redound to the harm of Don Braulio, and showed
anger that she believed she had, and begged, and even demanded, to assuage such absurd rumors.

Unfortunately, it was not worth it to stop talking to Rosita Count relations Dona Beatriz, and
even that often argued loudly that there was no such relationship;
But quietly and hearing, Rosita used to do great acclaim chivalry
his friend, even she hoped her victory. This silence was heroic, this
disguise loudly demonstrated the vehemence and loftiness of a generous
affection.

- Comes to this end the Count - said Rosita - which will
be able to have a challenge with which disclosed there that Beatrice
loves him.

- E pur si muove - added the poet Arthur, if by chance
was there.

The rumor, supposition, slander, if it was slander, the
gossip, in short, if we call, moved quickly indeed portentous.

Just
stayed at the villa crowned man or woman inducted into the anecdotal
history of the Banquet in the history that Asmodeus and his followers
can not and should disclose in print, although it has thousand clandestine
oral chroniclers, which certainly did not give as firm and tight loop
linking the heart of Beatrix and Richard, so they called the Count
of Alhedín their intimate or those who wanted to spend for such airs