 Never could get to write
down your expenses and income. Doing it a number? Prior to death. And not for many, is lost.
To tell you that no one ever knew what was, or what promissory notes maturing date!

- True, sir, very true - Benina said sighing in anticipation of what D. Carlos I would after
that sermon.

- Because you calculate ... if I have in my old age a good run for me and my children, if I
need a Mass for the repose of the soul of my dear wife, it is because I always carried with
business method and clarity of my house. Today, retired from trade, took up the accounting of my
personal expenses and do not sleep without going all the notes to the agenda, and then in the ratitos
free, what happened to the Mayor. See you, see it to be convinced - added tremor scoring more
negative -. What I want is that Frances could take this lesson.

Not too late ... Learn about you. "

And took a book, then another, and was showing the Benina, who came to see as much digital marvel.

"Look
you. Here I point the cost of the house, without anything happening to me, even five cents
of a matchbox, the rooms of the postman, everything, everything ... In this other little boy,
the alms to do and what employment votes. Daily alms, so much. Alms monthly how much. Then they
spend all the staff, where you can learn, day by day, what I spend,
and make the balance ... You figure, if Frank had taken stock would
not be as it is.

- Certainly, sir, very true.

And I tell the lady to take stock, to take everything apuntación, which enters as what comes
out. But she, that is no child, can not apencar by the good habit. But it is an angel, sir, and
we should not notice if it points or no points for rescue.

- Never too late to enter the ring, so to speak. I assure you that if there Francisca seen even
intentions or desire to keep their accounts in order, would have borrow ... provide no, he
would have provided means to get to leveling. But it is a head screwdriver, you agree with
me that is a head screwdriver.

- Yes, sir, I agree.

- And it occurred to me ... for that I have called you ... occurred to me that the best gift I
can do to that this is unfortunate. "

Saying, D. Carlos took a long, narrow book, brand new, and put before him for Benin holding it.
It was an agenda.

"See you - good lord said flipping through the book -: here are all the days of the week. Note
well: on one side, the column should be, to another, that of Haber. See how in spending it mark
items: coal, oil, wood, etc ... For what it costs to be showing work here what is spent, and
this other party to enter?

- But if the lady did not enter anything.

- Candy! - Trujillo said slapping the book -. Something will, because her little consumer you
are doing, and any amount that consumption, long or short, small
or large, should have.

And what you take out of charity, why not sign up? Let's see Why not sign up? ".

Benina looked between angry and pitied. But the anger could pity, and there was a moment, a second
no more, they stopped short of taking the books and prints in the head Mr. D. Carlos. Containing
his anger, and for the accounting monomaniacal not I met him, he
said with a forced smile: "So the Lord says to us bitches give to
the poor of San Sebastian.

- Day by day - the old man proudly replied,
shaking his head lower -.

And I can tell you, if you want to know, what I have in three months, six in one year.

- No, do not bother, sir - Benina said, feeling again wanted to give a fillip -. Take the book,
if you want. The lady was so grateful, and I also.

But we have no pen or pencil to a remedy.

- Everything is for God. What house, however poor you are, no writing materials? Offered take
a firm, make an account, or sign aiming a household name not to forget
... You take this pen, which is sharp, and take it too, and when you
wear the tip, it takes you to the kitchen knife.

"

And all these, D. Carlos did not speak to give any positive relief, realizing his charity the
offering of the book, which should be the foundation of the administrative order in the mad
Hacienda Doña Francisca Juarez.

Seeing him move his lips to keep talking, and take hand the key in the drawer on the left, Benin
felt great joy.

"There can be no prosperity without administration - said D. Carlos, opening the drawer and
looking into it -.

I want Francisca manage, and when administered ...

- When managing what? - Benin said the thought -. What are you going
to give us, man crazy, crazier than those in Leganes?

So rot you all the money you save, and you become pus inside the body for busting, wallet of avarice.

-
Take your book and pencil, and take it very carefully ... will not get lost on the road. Well,
have you had your office? Can I answer that will point all?

- Yes, sir ... not leak or a verb.

- Well.

But now, to Frances my poor Pura remember and pray for her ... Am
you promise to pray for her and for me?

- Yes, sir, pray loudly,
until we drop the bell.

- Well, here I have twelve dollars, which
target the relief of the needy who are not determined to beg because
they are embarrassed ... Poor things! are the most miserable.

"

Hearing twelve dollars, Benina opened every eye as the door of a house. Christ, what she would
with twelve dollars! And was watching the rest of many days, meet many needs, cover some mouths,
living, breathing, give hand to request humiliating and punishment
of searching by means so tiring.

The poor woman saw heaven opened, and the hole dozen pesos, beautiful compendium of happiness
in those days.

"Twelve hard - repeated D. Carlos coins from hand to hand - but not the I in all, because it
would encourage waste: they are assigned ...».

Benin fell off the wings of the heart.

"If they are given, this time tomorrow and would not have a penny. I point out two dollars to
month, and every day 24 can you pick them up until they reach six
months and last September I'll see if I should increase or not the
assignment.

That depends, mind you, for me to know, concerning if given or not
given, if no order or follow the ... chaos.

Beware of chaos.

- Well, sir - humbly said Benin, thinking that he has had more satisfied, and take what was given,
without getting into issues with the eccentric and mean old man -. I I answer that will take the
notes to ministry, and we were not leak or a loose thread ... How I will spend the 24? Comes
in handy for household help. Increase the LORD, and Mrs. deceased have it in his holy rest ...
for ever Amen. "

D. Carlos, after scoring, enjoying it a lot, the amount paid, dismissed Benina with a gesture, and
moving cape and hat pulled down again, turn out not box but solemn days, he prepared to leave
and will undertake safe and secure devotions walk that day that began and ended in Montserrat
in the Sacramental San Justo.

XII

"The démontrer old - Benina Sena was said, getting a good walk in
the streets of Urosas - can not do more than what the natural demand.

Válgate God, when strange things Our Lord in the breeding of plants
and animals that, more rare in that makes people.

Not just a view truths that seem to lie ... In short, some are worse than the D. Carlos, that
after giving something, even if the expense and apuntación ... There
are worse and worse as ... neither point nor do they ... The story
is that with these two hard I can not fix the day because Almudena
would like to return to his, which is good to have him speak.

Bad days will come, and he will ... I have twenty real, which I shall
make a report to the girl, who is perishing, and the rest for lunch
today, y. ..

I have to tell your relative Mrs. I have not had more than the book of accounts, which will pen
and a pot that be very rich ... stock numbers and substance of the press ... What a laugh!
... Finally, for I have to say it lies at Doña Paca, God lights, as always, and we're pulling.
A Almudena see if I meet along the way, this is the time to get him to church. Y if we stumble
in the street, is fixed at the cafe de la Cruz del Rastro. "

And ran away, and across the street from the Knights were: "Son, your search was - he said Benina
taking him by the arm -. Here's your drive. You see that I meet.

- Amri, have no hurry.

- I owe you nothing ... And to another, Almudenilla, that day will come when you and me I lack serve,
and vice versa ... I will serve you Are you coming for coffee?

- Yes, and golvier if you want me. Tigo invite. "

Benina nodded to treat, and complained bitterly after a while the two sit-in coffee economic
taking two separate glasses for ten cents. The place was a tavern retouched, with ridiculous
between village and manor elegance, gold loud, the walls of marine
and pintorreadas landscapes fetid atmosphere and mixed parish and
sellers pobretería Rastro, loquacious indolent, some clinging to the
newspapers, and other listening to the reading, all very comfortable
at the bustling wander among spit, smoke and smells bad spirits snuff.

Solos in Benin and the Moroccan table, they chatted of other things:
the blind man told the mischief your roommate and her interview with
D. Carlos, and the ridiculous gift from ledger and the two hard month.

Of wealth, according to public voice, treasured Trujillo (thirty-four
houses, the sea papelorios government money, a ton of thousands of
thousands in the bank), talked extensively, he ran to consider, eg,
the number of poor people who could be happy with all that dosh, that
D. Carlos was coming as wide as deducting a portion for their children,
who should possess natural, so apañarían others so many who walk through
the streets of God barking from hunger.

But as they were not to fix it to your liking, more aware they had
not thought such a thing, and sought each his crust of bread as I
could, until death came and then God give everyone his due.

Finally, with extraordinary seriousness and tone of conviction deep,
Almudena told her friend that all the big bucks D. Carlos could be
it if you wish.

"" Mine? Did you say that everything in D. Carlos can be mine? You're crazy, Almudenilla.

- Tudo yours ... by the holy light. If you do not believe me, you and see Priebe.

- Vuélvemelo to say that all the money in D. Carlos can be mine, when?

-
When you want.

- I believe if you tell me how to be that miracle.

-
My learned how ... Dicir you secret.

- And if you can make the whole
flow of that old fool, a guess, becomes another person, why should
you settle for misery, why do not you take it for you?

".

Almudena replied to this that the person who made the miracle, whose secret he possessed, had
of a view. And the miracle was safe, by the blessed light, and if she hesitated, he had no to prove,
with time everything he said.

Benina was always something superstitious, and I used to believe many
supernatural stories have heard, well, misery aroused in her the respect
of improbable and wonderful things, and although he had not seen any
miracles, he hoped to see the best day.

A little superstition a lot of anxiety phenomena fantastic and never
seen, and just as much curiosity, prompted to ask the Moroccan specific
explanations of their science or magic, as this had to be sure.

Then said the blind man was all about art and know how to ask for
what that we wanted to be called Samdai.

"Who is that gentleman?

- King of baixo terra.

- How? A king who is under the earth?

The devil will be.

- Diablo no: King Bunite.

- Is that thing in your religion?

What religion do you have?

- Be eibrío.

- Oh dear - Benina said, he had not understood the term -.

"And that you call him King, come and go?

- And give you Tuda to
ask him.

- Will you give me all that you ask?

- Sigur.

"

Almudena profound conviction that he showed the unhappy effect on
women, who, after a pause to interrogate the dead eyes of his friend
and his shiny yellow forehead, surrounded by black hair, jumped saying

"And
what is done to call it?

- I say you.

- Did not do anything wrong
with me?

- Naida.

- Do not condemn me, nor do I feel sick, nor do
I catch the devils?

- No.

- Then go saying, but do not cheat, do
not cheat, I say.

- N 'winning is not you ...

- Can we do now?

-
No: hacirlo at twelve o'clock at night.

- Do you have to be at that
time?

- Sigur, sigur ...

- And how do I get out of the house at
midnight?

... Amos, leave it to me nonsense.

Truth could ie, a supposition which has been bad D. Romualdo and
I have to watch over him ... Well, what is to do?

- N 'Things Need
some mochas.

You buy things.

The earthen lamp Primiero. But you buy paliabra you without speaking.

- I go silent.

- Change you ... Buy something ... and if talking
does not assert.

- Válgate God ... Well then: I buy my clay lamp
without a word, then ...».

Almudena ordered after he had to find a clay pot with seven holes,
with seven nothing more, all without speaking, because if he was not
worth.

But where were these pots démontrer with seven holes?

This said the blind man in his own land any, and that this could
be met with roasters who use Brazil nuts, looking for one who has
seven bujeros, no more no less.

"And this must also be purchased without speaking?

- No talking Naida.

"

Then was forced to procure a carrash stick, wood from Africa, here called laurel. A seller
of clubs, be the first shed the Americas did. Had to buy it without a word. Well, because these things
together, it would stick to the fire until to latch on properly ... This was to be Friday at
five o'clock. If not, worth. And the stick would burn until Saturday, and on Saturday at five
o'clock he got into the water seven times, no more no less.

"Is everything creeping?

- Talk Naida, Naida.

"

After the club dressed in women's clothes, like a doll, and he snuggled right dress to the wall,
putting right, masters feet. Was placed before the lamp of clay, on with oil, and covered
her with the pot, so saw no more light than would bujeros the seven, and within walking distance to
put the pot to cast light the incense, and start saying the prayer over and over again with
the thought, because talking is worth. And so was the person, without distraction, without neglecting,
watching smoke rise benzoin and watching the light of the seven holes,
until the twelve ...

"At midnight! - Repeated Benina startled -.

And when twelve o'clock chimes comes ... out, appears to me! ...

- King of terra baixo: asking you what you want, and you give him.

-
Almudena, do you think that?

How is it possible that this man, no more than you cirimonias told me to give me what is now
Don Carlos Trujillo?

- Seeing you, if you wanted.

- But with so requesito, if one is neglected a little, or a mistake
in one word mental prayer ...

- Have you mocha care.

- What about
prayer?

- I teach you; dicir you: Shema Israel Adonai Adonai Elohim
Ishatar ...

- Hush, hush, in life I say that unequivocally.

As net Castilian is not you miss me ... And I assure you that I have
these sorts of jitters from witchcraft ... off, off ... But Ah!

If true, how nice, take her to that of D. zorrocloco Carlos all your
money ... masters half it was, for distribution among many poor ones
who die from hunger ... If could be tested, buying pots and Palitroques
without speaking, then ... But no, no ... any day was coming here
this Wise Man ... Also say that sometimes happen phenomena things,
and go through the air and calling spirits, eg, the souls, looking
at what we do and listening to us as we speak.

And another: what a dream, what is? Well real things of this world, who come to this ... Everything
can be, everything can be ... But me, what can I say, I doubt that much money to give, without
further ado. That to help the poor, a guess, is quite a rich half a million, or half half million,
to pass, but many, tantismas bags for us ... no, that will not wash.

- Tuda, Tuda which have in the bank, mochas million, lottery pa Tuda you, what hiciendo you
say.

- Well if that is so easy, why do not others? Or do you just have the secret? The secret to yourself!
Amos, tell when Nuncio, here we do not buy those potatoes ... I I'm not saying it is not possible
... and if I knew how to do the test, would, a thousand pairs ... Tell me again what the recipe
is to buy one without talking ...»

.