 

Ojeda watched the "doktor" with some astonishment. America was hired by a government to give
lessons in chemistry at the university in the country. Enjoyed some popularity in the laboratory from
their homeland ... And was there holding the enjabonaduras and antics of the barber, shuddering under
the dashes of black, without knowing the grotesque of a situation that had angered others, perhaps
pleased to contribute to the delight of the crowd weary of the monotony Ocean. Christening the trumpet
sounded, and the "Doktor" splashed in the pool, defending of the handfuls of black ridiculous myopic
stunning, majestic by the importance which gave the act and the seriousness with which walked away
dripping dirty clothes and beards After regaining his glasses.

Continued the party with visible decay of curiosity. People marched ship: cabin boys making their first
trip, firemen long navigation to the northern seas had not been in the South. And managers
take extra baptism jokes confianzuda brutality in their heads shaved and naked torsos of those
who were his peers.

Ojeda, during the long ceremony, he had looked many times at the castle practicable balcony
Central Maud expecting to see the ladies leaning out to them. But the U.S. remained invisible. Finally,
when there were no longer neophytes and the grotesque characters were going to retire, preceded
by music, was at one end of the viewpoint of the promenade deck, hidden behind Mrs. Lowe,
looming over his shoulder this the forehead and eyes, you need to see. Fernando thought maybe
Maud watched him for hours without realizing it this, and it caused him some annoyance.

He separated from his friend to go running to the upper floors of the ship, and before heard them
breaking music playing a march. The procession moved toward neptunesco den terrace, where they
would be baptized ladies. People left the practicable balcony to run the latter site.

Near the winter garden he found with Maud, who was walking between spouses Lowe. Crossed a greeting,
and instantly Ojeda experienced a feeling of strangeness. Mrs. Power seemed another woman. Almost
felt like to ask for forgiveness, as he is wrong to confuse a stranger with a friend. She nodded
with a smile insignificant greeted him like any other passenger. His eyes were fixed on hers quietly,
without the slightest hint of embarrassment, as if there were no other relationships between
the ordinary in the common life on board.

They talked about the four of baptism, and the Herculean Lowe said the incidents. Mr. Maltrana
had not wanted to be left baptized. Why? ... He had crossed the line several times, paying always
at the ceremony. In the Goethe also have offered not to oppose the lady. A fun party. But Mr.
Maltrana, I was afraid ... Oh! Oh! Oh! And laughed, showing the luenga teeth inlaid with gold.

All
walked to the cafe terrace to witness the ceremony of baptism female.

Mrs. Lowe, with the instinct of solidarity guess that makes every woman the right moment to
help a friend, stood clutching the arm of Maud, standing between her and Fernando.

He searched in vain for a slight smile, a look of intelligence.

In need of comfort, praise Maud inside the discretion of the race easy to master, hiding their impressions.
"What good fakes! ... No one would guess what's between us ... "but makes to the memory of
the painful scene in front of the cabin door. Trembled in his hearing the echo of the male voice
almost hoarse with anger ... And with sad humility search sought to explain his conduct something
this evil. "But what I have, Lord? What I could offend ?...»

Neptune, in the middle of the terrace with his entourage proceeded
to the christening of the passengers.

They occupied several rows of benches, as in a school, and every time you lift a to receive
the lustral water, the musicians threw their long tubes of copper a roar trumpets of war scenes
similar to Wagner.

God had removed gallantly dive in sea water. He held in one hand a large spray bottle filled
with perfume, and sprinkle with reverent heads: one, blond and ruffling in the wind, sometimes
glossy black, studded by the brightness of combs. All the joy of the ceremony lay in the names that
would impose divinity their catechumens to approving murmurs or general laughter.

The imagination of the butler and waiters in some letters he had given all his juice to flatter
the passengers with the names of starfish, pink Ocean, zephyr Ecuador, etc. The old ladies were
nymph, nymph Atlantic, Naiad, which made flushed back to their seats, with the double chin quivering,
including approving murmurs and somewhat ironic competition. With his fellow Germans were allowed
good innocent jokes to the delight of the audience. A weak left at his baptism with the designation
of "sardines", another obese was called "Triton."

Maud seemed to get tired of this ceremony. I looked everywhere, but avoiding his eyes meet with
Fernando. A passenger approached the ladies with the cap in hand and gallant air, just as if
it were offered to a dance.

- When you want ... The table is prepared in the classroom.

Munster was inviting them to a game of bridge. Tenacity finally triumphed. Had found playmates in
those three Americans, convincing them an hour earlier, while witnessed
the christening ceremony.

Maud gladly accepted the invitation, as if the bridge was a good excuse to withdraw from importunate
presence.

He walked away with his friends after an indifferent greeting Fernando,
and he saw her walk without turning his head, without a hint of hesitation
and regret.

Here again one felt sorry for her fault she did not know was, but justified this conduct inexplicable.
"What have I done, Lord? ... What have I done ?...»

With the abject humility of all love in disgrace, was a little while
after her, despite of suggestions of a false energy advised him haughty
and indifferent.

His legs carried him with an irresistible impulse to the vicinity of the room, and looked at Maud
with the cards in hand, frowning and looking hard at their playmates.

By lifting her eyes, saw Fernando framed by the window, staring fixedly and made a gesture of
anger, just as if he were confronted with something which shook his nerves and broke his patience.
Fernando fled, suffering the same feeling as if just received a blow on the back ... He doubted
the reality of the facts and even his own person. Would dreaming? ... Would his invention memories
of the night? ...

He wandered around the ship, one deck to another, to find Isidro coffee on the terrace. It
was not in it any trace of the feast of the baptism means passengers
had spread.

Maltrana seemed infuriated by the excesses and hardships of their popularity. I could not circulate
the ship without his many dear friends will go out to step with an
air of protest.

The ladies seemed inconsolable. Why had not ceased to baptize? As interesting would have been
the show! ...

- As if I were a monkey, Ojeda friend ... as if I had shipped to make people laugh ... Believe
me, I feel the sadness of a great man convinced of the ingratitude of his people.

And after this statement, accompanied by a comical gesture, Isidro turned to lean against the
railing, looking at northern migrants huddled down in the square stern.

- For a while I'm here to remind mariners of bygone centuries and their views on virtues of the equator. Do
not you remember you ...

The first sailors who had gone to the other hemisphere gave assured that in line dying every
harboring parasites in the bodies of the sailors and the cracks ships. And this belief was not
only the Spanish explorers, French and The British also adopted,
becoming for many years a universal truth.

- Past the Azores - Maltrana
said - began to depopulate the bloodthirsty beasts the heads and beards
of the crew, and get to the line there was one to remember.

This s kind of uncomfortable was not so exclusive property of one people or another. All those
in Europe equally possessed, and even enjoyed the pleasure of kings and entertainment rascuñón hunting
in the dark. Imagine what would those small vessels with crews wood piles and corroded by all
sorts of nasty bugs ... How to reach heat line was that the sailors were going about half naked
and take advantage of long calm giving baths, this momentary hygiene exterminate the fierce companions,
justifying the belief that dying for lack of acclimatization to move from one hemisphere to another.

The
bloodthirsty tiger from the jungles capillaries, carnivorous beast jumping on the tops and hollows
in the folds of clothing, had figured for centuries as an interesting
character in many literary works.

Cervantes laughed at him and his feigned death in the limit of two hemispheres to tell "the adventure
of the enchanted boat," when Don Quixote and his squire floated on the Ebro in a boat without
a paddle ... The champion dreamer believed to be a few minutes navigation
near the equator, and to convince, recommended to seek Sancho on their
clothes to see if there was "something"

... "Something and even somethings" answered the squire sly picking his chest.

- I thought this friend Ojeda, looking at the respectable patriarchs going down with fur greatcoat
despite the heat.

"Something and even somethings." For those, the line has lost Under its former ... Look at them:
scratch to scratch! ...

He pointed to some immigrants who watched the Ocean thoughtfully, as figures hieratic priestly
majesty, wrapped in robes Luengas while his fingers hooked walked
by the beard, sunk under the skin, or advancing cap in the folds and
folds of the breast.

- Let's go - Ojeda said nervously, as if you
do not inspire confidence that the height separated from these characters.

Noticed

when walking along the deck the shortage of ladies. Some that were shown for brief times they
seemed preoccupied with the search for something important.

Then disappeared, as if an idea they have bought a new or modified data that your bad mood.

-
They are preparing for the party tonight - said Maltrana -.

Great dance costumes and during the meal masquerades as baptism.

The day continued with an overwhelming monotony. Still bright on the horizon the last solar fires,
when the trumpets announced the banquet.

The flags, wreaths of roses, all the trappings of great colorful festivals, adorned the dining room.
No service began were occupied many of the tables.

Many passengers remained in the breakfast area to enjoy before the other of the announced news.

Ladies
retarded entry, with the hope that their costumes achieve greater success. Expected, as well as
actresses, that the room had good audience, and their maids or men of the family were in the
cabin to the dining room to look around and come back with news. Each family wanted the others were
in front, and let time pass without a decision.

They were passengers in the third course, when they began to present the costume, all at once.
Blushing welcomed the applause and shouts of enthusiasm, and so went
to their seats escorted by the family.

Passed among the tables Russian ladies high diadem and robes rigid, often Nipponese of walking;
polonaises dolmanes rimmed with white fur, sailor tempting youth packed their prominence in a
white robe given by a boy.

- Ollé! Ollé! ... Carmen!

Was Conchita, white blanket, short skirts and large movements of range, he entered, Dona Zobeida
protected by smiling, motherly face of this triumph.

The men were also on the masquerade. Many did not have another nose disguise cardboard or crepe
whiskers, keeping them though hindered their food. Some appeared with big hat, poncho on the
shoulders and spurs, it did resonate belligerently. Color were eager to local brokers, who
claimed to be dressed as gauchos of the Pampas Chilean or broken.

- Ah, gaucho cute! Tigre! - Exclaimed with mock enthusiasm American boys -. Ah, rotito! ... Huaso
funny!

...

And the masks, resting her hand on the old knife or kitchen knife carrying the belt to "be more
in character," smiled grateful.

- Ich danke ... Grasias Mochas.

Some ate between sweat of fear, disguised as dervishes bed blankets. A German major had put the life
jacket that kept all cabin as a precaution regulations. Locked up like a crustacean in this
shell of cork, kept away from the table because of the volume of
its container, having to make a journey every time his hands were
on the plates in their mouths.

A mock astonishment greeted him with loud applause, and satisfied with this triumph, endured
martyrdom, being the first to admire his prodigious inventive.

The maids of luxury cabins ranging from table to table, dressed in peasant Tirol, giving flowers.
Other servants, hawkers dressed in German, offering goodies that were in a drawer on the chest.
A painted black boy with the help descolgábase a rope through the skylight that connected the music
room with dining room, and proclaimed, in the style of newspaper
vendors, the Aequator Zeitung newspaper is printed on board the press
that was used for the printing of menus and lists of passengers.

The tiny leaf repeated on every trip the same jokes and poems dedicated to the passage of the
line. The butler, standing at the entrance to the dining room, coat stand with brass buttons, seemed to
preside over the banquet, smiling modestly, as if grateful for the congratulations of the audience
silent for good Under the party.

On the tables elevábanse multicolored cones pyramids with surprises. Threw their diners ends, producing
an explosive burst, and emerged wrappers tiny ornaments, butterflies and flowers chiffon, tiny
flags, paper hats. It adorned the breasts of the ladies with these brilliant baubles, all smoking
flap looked like a badge of national flag carrier. Cubríanse heads with the tissue paper hats, combs
of birds, mitres Asian, clown hats, contrasting grotesquely with the gesture avid eaters. 

After
grilling the waiter disappeared, and all the lights went out at once. This resulted in complete
darkness, after a silence of surprise, shouts and whistles. The malicious mimicked in darkness
smacking kisses, others raised howls of animals. But DIN was short-lived.

It sounded far away the music and lights twinkled in red and green breakfast room, a line of
lanterns carried aloft by the waiters. This glow, muffled by the glass colors, discreetly lit
with soft light.

It was the "march of the torch" of any party German. The passengers, attracted by the music
began to beat time with their knives, plates and glasses. And among the general ringing, almost
drowned out the sounds instruments, the procession paraded: the drum major leading the band,
all the servants carrying lanterns, the waitresses dressed as flower girls, and a large number
of animals bears, dogs and lions, waiters in good faith, sweating
under the fur lining and moved from side to side their heads roaring
or barking cardboard.

Two men supported one another invisible marching under a shell that mimicked the leathery skin
of an elephant, moving between tables serpentine monster's trunk and ears of a fan. Other waiters
came after holding light dishes, large platters inside which elevábanse
ice cream castles in the shape of birds or houses, all under cloches
various colors and with a candle in the center.

Several young ladies brought up the rear of big hat, blonde hair loose, who smiled men shamelessly
sending kisses.

They were escorting three matrons of honor arms beautiful and majestic walk, white robes and
red cap on purple wavy black tresses. They are recognized by color and heraldic motifs of
mantles: the Republic of Brazil, the Republic of Uruguay and Argentina.

This appearance was circulated among the passengers a surprise move, anxiety, and if all at
once felt the lash of desire. Where had been hidden until then those
good girls?

...

Munster required his glasses to better appreciate the novelty.

Isidro, who claimed to know all of the ship, joined amazed ... Where did these girls? ... Were higher
in its slender fresh and lasts all flabby and waitresses serving size square on the ship.

But
the bold look of one of those beauties who danced to the three republics
and the kiss that sent him to the fingertips made suddenly recognize
Maltrana his face hidden behind the undulating curls and rouge and
powder coating of rice.

- Christ!

If you are the steward of my room! ...

He admired some diffuse light lanterns and strutting forms these efebos
Blond shaved white meat, as well as his ability to transform.

- Anyone
recognize them in the morning cleaning the cabins, shaking beds and
manage wastewater pots ... Look, Ojeda, who makes no mistakes?

... Now I understand everything.

The troupe moved effeminate among the tables, followed by the astonishment of the ladies and the
bold burlesque of men.

Some of them jumped the compliment to the action, pinching the way to the unruly girls, who responded
with shrieks of fear and modest splashes.

Suddenly ignited the ceiling lights, masks and animals fled as a coven surprised by sunrise, and
only stayed in the dining room with waiters ice trays, starting with the deal.

Ojeda had looked several times a nearby table where he ate alone Mrs. Power. She was dressed
with great elegance and the pale flesh of his neck sparkled more
brightly.

- It seems worried - Isidro had said at the beginning of
the meal -.

Is undoubtedly a bad mood. Do not look at you, Ojeda, as usual. Is it no longer friends? ...

Food passed without Fernando managed to find their eyes with the U.S.. She looked around with
a distracted air, and avoid putting your eyes on the table nearby.

After the parade, when the general joy was talking to one group against another, the gifts of
Munster made him turn his head toward the neighbors. The jeweler, with mellow courtesy, lifted
his glass of champagne in honor of the lady. Maud answered with a nod, also raising his glass,
and not to seem inattentive, repeated movement and then watching Isidro Ojeda. Not the slightest
emotion in his eyes clear and cold. A courtesy and nothing more.

Munster,
proud of the friendship that bound him to the lady on the occasion
of the bridge, asked to resume the game. Before the ball could make
a new start in the music room: Lowe husbands were willing ... She
shook her head with an expression of weariness. No know what to say
... Maybe later decided to accept ... I was fatigued.

Fernando glared
at her companion. But this old colored by what stood between him and
Maud with his damn bridge? ... He thought he saw in him a certain
expression of petulance, the pride in their budding friendship with
the lady who had only been set at Ojeda ... There would be no bridge:
Fernando swore inside. Maud was dressed elegantly to attend the dance,
and would not end the night without the two they had an explanation