 

Then there was us with a set of beings subject to fixed laws, both in terms to our feelings as
between themselves, then there's the external world, then the inner us it represents, it is a
pure illusion.

CHAPTER VII.

ANALYSIS OF THE OBJECTIVITY OF THE SENSATIONS.

[36.] The external world, is just as we figured it? These beings that cause us feelings, and
we call bodies, are in fact what we believe? After demonstrate the existence of such beings,
and its necessary subjection to constant laws, do not yet we doubt
whether we have demonstrated the existence of bodies?

Is it enough for this object, have proven that there are external beings in relationship with
us and each other, through fixed and necessary laws, independent
of them and us?

[37.] To fully understand this question, it will be convenient simplified to a single object.

I
have to my view and in my hand an apple. As shown above, I am sure that There is an external being,
related to other beings and with mine by necessary laws, I am it
true that my views are different: see its color, shape and size, feel
his smell, taste experiment, I feel in the hand of their magnitude,
their weight, figure, its concavities and convex, and also hear the
faint sound bouncing when the nudging.

The idea of ??body is a composite idea, and so the apple will be: a thing external large, colorful,
fragrant and tasty.

Whenever you meet these circumstances, that is, whenever I receive
an object the same views, I will say that I have in sight an apple.

[38.] Let us now examine the extent to which the object corresponds to the sensations it causes.

What
do we mean when we say we mean is something tasty? Nothing else but that makes us an impression
on the palate nice: the self is checked against the smell. Then the two words fragrant and tasty,
only express the causality of these feelings, resident in the external object. For the color, we can
say the same, because although commonly transfer the sensation to the object and put ourselves
in some contradiction to the philosophical theory color and light, this contradiction is only apparent,
since in the end, it examined the trial, only the printing is referred to specific objects,
for so when first we hear in the departments of natural colors are not the object easily get used
to reconcile the philosophical theory of meaning with the impression,
because in the end that theory does not alter the truth that such
and such impressions are coming from these or those points of different
objects.

[39.] In this part, it is difficult to explain the phenomena of feeling, no correspondence of
them with external objects, because this correspondence is enough to save them are really the cause
(or occasion) of them. It's not as easy task as regards the extension, as this property is as the
basis for all other sensitive, and regardless whether or not it is
the essence of bodies, the truth is that we can not conceive of body
where there is no extension.

[40.] This will feel the difference going from the extension to the other grades sensitive to following
observation. When we have not ever thought of the relation of external objects with our feelings,
we do not know what confusion on these points, and the color, smell, taste and even sound,
somehow transferred to the same objects, considering confused these as qualities inherent to
them. So the child and the rustic feel that is really green in the leaves, the smell is in
the rose, the sound in the Bell, taste the fruit. But it is easy to see that this is a confusing
trial that not realize to themselves clearly; trial that can be altered and even destroyed
without destroying or altering the overall relationship of our senses with objects. Thus, even
very young age, we got used to easily refer to the light color and up to set you on is definitely
not, but to look at him as an impression produced in our sense of the mysterious action of
this agent. The smell does not trouble us regarded as a sensation emanating from the action
of the waves of a body on organ of smell and the sound left to consider what something inherent
in the body sound, and we see it more than the impression conveyed in the direction of the vibration
of air, moved to turn the vibration of sound body.

These philosophical considerations which at first sight, it seemed to be in contradiction with
our view, do not alter the external world for us, not cause a disruption in the ideas we form of him,
only make us more secure attention in some relationships deslindábamos evil, and do not allow
us to attribute to objects, more than you actually have. We do limit the testimony of the senses
to the field they belong, in some measure rectified the judgments that had formed, but the world
remains the same as before, except that the charms of nature, found in more intimate relationship
with ourselves, noting that they have most part our organization and our soul than we imagined.

[41.]
But destroy the extension, removing foreign objects that quality,
let's pretend she is nothing more than a mere sensation, without knowing
anything except that there is an object we are the cause, and since
then, the corporeal world disappears.

The whole system of universe be reduced to a set of things that cause us different impressions,
but the extension removed no idea we form of the body, we do not know if everything we thought
about the world is more than a pure illusion. I am resigned to easily get rid of what they believed
in my childhood that the color I see in my hand is in it, that the noise it makes when hitting the
other is in it, but I can not in any way of removing the extension, I can not imagine the distance
from the palm to the tip of the fingers is not more than a mere feeling of there is only a
being that causes me, not knowing if in fact this distance exists. A I find tasty fruit, took the
honors work without much flavor, and considering philosophically, I have no problem admitting that
there is not anything like this taste, and if only, which is composed in such a way that affects
the body's palate convenient way for me to receive the pleasant sensation, but I can not get
to the fruit its extension, I can not in any way be considered as an indivisible thing, I am not possible
to look at the distances from one to another point of it as mere sensations. When I try by
itself viewed as indivisible object tasty, I strive in vain, and if for a moment I think I
come to conquer the instinct of nature, everything upsets me: with the same I do the right
fruit indivisible thing I do in the universe, and the indivisible universe not for me the universe,
my mind is confused, everything is destroyed around me: I suffer something more than the face of
the chaos, the chaos is to me something at least as well that horrible confusion of elements in appalling
darkness, but now suffer some more, as the corporeal universe, as he had conceived, come to naught.

CHAPTER
VIII.

Sense of the Extension.

[42.] Two senses perceive the extension, the sight and touch, smell,
taste, sound, walk accompanied by the extension, but are quite different.

The view that perceives nothing is not extended, the extension is
absolutely inseparable from that feeling.

Embedded a delicious harmony of many instruments, can be enjoyed
on the perception of sounds to forget the extension of the instruments,
air, and our bodies: but when looking at a picture, even in the midst
of the most ardent enthusiasm, can not disappear the extension.

If the transfiguration of Raphael remove the extension, the wonder disappears because the essence
of it, even considering it as a simple phenomenon of our soul, come continuity of necessity
and distances.

The same is checked against the touch, though not so generally. The hardness or softness, smoothness
or roughness, the angle or forcefully bring the extension: but it is undeniable that there are
some impressions of touch, which is not so clear that accompanied it. The sharp pain of a stitch,
and others who feel no cause known abroad, not so clearly relate to the extension, and seem to
have some that simplicity that distinguishes the impressions that
come to us for the conduct of other senses.

Since it is true that the extension belongs to perceive a particular way to the sight and touch.

[43.]
To form clear ideas about the extension in its relations with the sensation, the discuss in
some detail.

Firstly, it is noteworthy that the extension involves multiplicity, an extended being is necessarily
a set of beings: they will find themselves more or less linked together
through a bond that will form a whole: but this does not mean that
they are not many.

A beautiful picture which dominates the unity of thought of the artist, never ceases to be
a compound of many parts, the moral bond that unites them, not identified,
only the bonds, are ordered make them go to an end.

The very firm adherence to one another are the molecules that consists of the diamond, does
not make these molecules are different: the link material unites, not identified.

No multiplicity therefore no extension, where extension, there is a single being in any the rigor
of the word, but many.

[44.] But the multiplicity is not the extension, because there may be the first without the second.
Multiplicity of sounds is not the extension, the multiplicity of
flavors smells or not, we conceive multiplicity of beings of different
orders and in the material world, as in the moral and intellectual,
not to get involved in such multiple the idea of ??extension.

Even limiting ourselves to a purely mathematical, we found multiple no extension in arithmetic
and algebraic quantities.

Then the multiplicity, while is necessary to constitute the extension is not sufficient alone
to establish it.

Reflecting on the kind of variety required to form the extension, we note you have to walk together with
the continuity. The feelings and views as of touch, involving Continuity: because I can not see
or touch, without receiving the impression of objects continuous, immediate one to the other,
coexisting in its duration and at the same moment I offered as continuing
with each other in space.

Without this continuity, multiplicity not the extension. For example, if I take four or more
points in the paper that write, and consider them an abstraction indivisible, this multiplicity is
not me the extension: I need to connect them by lines, at least imaginary, and in default
of continuity of the supposed body located, I will need to avail myself of continuity space: that
is, watch this space as a set of points, which refers below the former. For more efforts to make me
not be possible to consider as a set extension non-continuous indivisible points, or by lines:
one set will be for me as if other beings, they had nothing to do with the extension. It is noteworthy,
that if I give a particular place in space, is also linked by lines imaginary other points:
it no other way I can conceive of distances, or situation in space. That if he wanted it all
without, then step into nothingness or intellectual ie annihilate the whole idea of ??the object,
or I move to another order of beings no relationship having either the extension or space. I have
left the area and feelings, and I'll be traced to the region of spirits.

[45.] Then the multiplicity and continuity are necessary to form the extension. What these two
conditions are sufficient? I think so, because where they exist, there is the extension: with
them two alone, entirely alone, we form the idea of ??extension. The purpose of geometry is the
extension, and it only come multiplicity and continuity. The lines, surfaces, volumes, such as the
subject of geometry, disregard everything other than that continuity, look for the most abstraction.
Therefore it is enough empty space; or rather it would seem, that
this requires the empty space, because when he makes the application
bodies, can not find all the accuracy that was in continuity in the
abstract.

[46.] If the multiplicity and continuity in space are the extension, it exists objects really
cause us feelings. I have already shown that they are entitled to these external objects, based
on the relationship of the phenomena itself together, and the causes that produce them: so that
this relationship exists also with respect to the multiplicity and to continuity, then these two
properties are actually in nature. Prints we receive by sight and touch, even limited to a
single object, are multiple and both correspond to many objects,
are continuous and therefore correspond to continuous objects.

I will clarify something else is right. My eye fixed on a table gets an impression that comes
from many different points, is worthy of note that this impression is no interruption in entire
area that I offer. If as I have shown, the view from an external point sufficient to persuade me of
its existence, many me enough to be sure the of many, and the continuity of the posters I also
ensure the continuity of the points imprimentes.

If you touch an object seen, touch me confirms the testimony in the party he belongs to, ie
the multiplicity and continuity. I experience the same continuous succession of sensations,
which tells me the existence and continuity of the objects that cause them.

[47.] In short: the extension is the coexistence of many objects,
but in such a way they are one after another, to assure us both sensations,
then the testimony of the senses enough to be certain that there are
extended objects, and can produce several prints.

These ideas contain as caught up in the idea of ??body: then the testimony of the senses we are
sure of the existence of bodies.

CHAPTER IX.

OBJECTIVITY OF THE SENSATION OF EXTENSION.

[48.] Tested and that the testimony of the senses is enough to ensure
the existence of bodies, see how far the ideas are correct that makes
us the same form.

Not enough to know that we can be sure of the existence of the extension
is necessary to investigate if she is in reality as it senses it is
presented, and what I say about the extension can be applied to other
properties of bodies.

In my opinion, the only feeling that we moved abroad, and we can not to move, is the extension,
all others refer to objects, just as effects to causes, not original copies. The smell, taste, sound,
we do not represent anything that is similar to the objects that cause them, but the extension
itself: the attribute extension to objects, and we can not conceive
without it.

The sound out of me is not sound, it is not more than just a vibration of air, produced by the
vibration of a body, the taste out me, not taste, is nothing but applied to a body organ, and
causes a modification, mechanical or chemical, and likewise takes place with the smell. Even
in the light and colors outside me, there is but one fluid falling on a surface, and direct or
reflexive reached or can reach the eyes, but the extension out of me, regardless of any relationship
with the senses, it is true extension, is something whose existence and nature need my senses.
When I am, or when I imagine, between my impressions and she, more than just the relationship of an
effect to a cause: there is representation, image interior of what exists on the outside.

[49.] In order to fully understand and feel vividly the truth of what I of seating, I am going
to give the reader a picture of which are eliminated on certain feelings, making note the
degree of elimination and can be reached which is not passed.

Suppose that all the animals once they lose the sense of taste, or
that all natural bodies are removed from the property caused by contact
with an organ the sensation we call flavor.

Despite this the external world exists as before. The same bodies that cause us feelings now
lost, continue to exist and may be applied to the same body that previously affected, causing sensations
in that part of touch, as soft or hard, cold or hot, or similar.

O tasty or bodies animal organs have undergone some change, with which it has cut the relationship
that had before: it is noted that a cause which once produced an effect, is now powerless to produce
it. This may have happened by a modification of the bodies, which in no way alters their nature,
as we see it, and also may not have moved them, has occurred this difference with only the alteration
of the organs. But in any case, the disappearance of sensation, has not removed the universe
anything like it, if the alteration has been verified only in the organs, external bodies are
intact, and if you have place in the body, this alteration has made them lose a property that
causes the sensation, but not a property represented by the sensation.

Already deprived of food for all tastes: the universe exists as before privémosle its smells, altering
the body odor, or the organ of smell. What result? what same as we have noted with taste. Odoriferous
bodies continue to exist, and even send our bodies the fumes that once produced the sensation
of smell, not there will be more novelty than the non-existence of this feeling in our bodies
lack the disposition necessary to receive the impression, or the universe will be gone causality:
more Not one thing represented by the sensation.

The gardens will be stripped of its beauty symmetrical the meadows of its freshness and greenery:
the tree will hold its lush canopy, and beautiful fruit continue to monitor the branches swaying
in the wind.

Let us continue our work of destruction, suddenly deafening to all animals. The concert musicians become
actors in a silent pantomime, the ringer pulling the rope, the metal will spin dumb conversations
are reduced to gestures oral, the cries of the gross will be nothing but open and close mouths, but
the air vibrate as before, its columns will come to hurt the ear drum as before, all exist
as before: nothing missing in the universe but a feeling.
