 As for payment, the city was proud of her millionaire. Neither the Bank Spain had the
formality and confidence at home. No employee or tables, all the flat foot, but could order
thousands of dollars, as he wanted, he had no to get into her bedroom and pulled mysterious
recesses each stack of bills that got fear.

And this lucky rustic, to be rich, no more merit than the whim of fate, it was smart air of petulance
that provides money and harassed Rafael, his deputy, a railway tariff reform to spread the orange inside
Spain. As if he had plans need to become rich!

Of his wretched past it was only a trace: respect for the House of Brülls. Was a certain arrogance
to the whole city, but could not hide his respect for inspired Dona Bernarda, which was coupled
with a deep gratitude for the kindness with which he distinguished to see rich and direct
interest in her child. I never forget the father of Raphael, the greatest man he had met in his
life and he seemed to see him still as when stopped at his house as a gardener, on his great
steed and with an air of Lord commands what to do in the next election. He knew the poor condition
of the great man had left their business to die, and more than once he had given money to Dona
Bernarda, proud that it in your troubles will be given the honor of fetch, but for him the house
Brülls, poor or rich, was always the masters house, the birthplace of that dynasty whose authority
no could bring down power whatsoever. If he had money, the other ah! the others were far away,
in Madrid, powerful friends, came when they wanted to the throne were of those who had the
upper hand, and whether their presence was whispered that Rafael's mother thought his daughter
in-law, Don Matias satisfaction blushed and murmured modestly

- I do not know, I think everything is hearsay. My Remedios is only a town girl and Deputy Madrid
want a great lady.

Rafael had long known the counsel of his mother. He did not want those people. The father, sticky
despite plans to offer fans, it was nice and showing respect to his family. The daughter was
negligible, with no other beauty than the freshness of young, dark, hiding behind the gentle
obtuse intellect more helpful than the father alone was the devotion
and the scruples that had been brought.

That morning happened twice with Rafael, followed by an old maid, with all the gravity of an orphan
who has to deal with the government of their home and act as the old lady. He hardly looked
at him. The gentle smile of future servant who greeted him with other times had vanished. She was
pale and colorless lips pursed. Surely it seen from a distance talking and laughing with Leonora.
Soon his mother would know the game.

That girl seemed to regard him as their own, and his gesture was a bad mood and that of the wife prepares
for a scene of jealousy in camera.

As if a hazard Amagase leave of don Matias and his friends and avoiding a new meeting with Remedios,
left the market.

Leonora was still there. The expected in the way of the garden, had to take this morning.

The field seemed to tremble under the first kisses of spring. Cubríanse young leaves the slender
poplars that lined the road in the gardens, warmed by the orange new blood opened their buds, preparing
to launch an explosion of white perfume orange blossom, on the slopes
tangled hair growing between the first grass flowers.

Rafael sat by the roadside, caressed by the cool grass. How well that smell!

Violet, scary and fragrant, was walking nearby, hidden under the leaves. His hands searched along
the ridge of purple flowers, whose scent makes you dream tremors
love.

Form a bouquet to offer it to Leonora as pass.

He felt encouraged by a boldness he had never known and his hands
burning with fever.

Such it was the emotion that gave him his own daring. He was determined to decide their fate
that morning. The fatuity of the man believed to be a fool and want to enhance the eyes of her
fans excited, giving a cynical audacity.

What would his friends, who envied him as Leonora's lover, knowing
it was him insignificant as a friend as a good boy who distracted
in the solitude of her voluntary exile?

A few kisses on the hand, four nice words, some cruel jokes Comrade that is conscious of his
superiority ... All this was achieved after many months of assiduous
court to resist his mother, living at home as a stranger, without
affection and under eye of outrage, to surrender entirely to the slander
of enemies I supposed affair with the artist and made a fuss in the
name of morality.

I would laugh if they knew the truth, those skulls in recounting Casino having love affairs
always preface the sudden push, fight, possession violent grips the edge of a path under an orange
or dark corner of a house!

And Rafael, disturbed by the fear of appearing ridiculous, it was
said that those were gross perhaps correct, that this would succeed,
and that he suffered because of him, for behold Leonora respectfully,
by far, as an idolater submissive.

Christ! Was not he the man and therefore the strongest? Well, do you feel the authority of the sex.
He liked and had to be yours. Also, when she was so fondly, you probably wanted. Scruples were
all that kept them apart and he was responsible for the violent searching
first occasion.

I had just come complete and compelling the brutal decision between
the continuous fluctuations of weak and irresolute character, he heard
voices on the road, and sitting was coming to Leonora followed by
the two peasants with the torso bent over the heavy baskets.

- Again!
- The artist said with a laugh that his throat swelled mild tremors
.-- You is my shadow.

In the market, on the road, everywhere I get to meet ...

He took the bunch of violets that offered the young, inhaling with delight.

- Thanks, Rafael, are the first to see this year.

It's here my faithful friend, the spring you bring me, but days ago guessed arrival. I'm happy,
do not you notice it?

I seem to have been during the winter matted silk worm in the bud, and now I'm going to sprout
wings and fly this huge green room exhaled her first perfume. Do not you feel the same?

Rafael said gravely. He also felt the blood boiling, punctures of life in all its pores.

And stared with wild eyes that bare throat of tantalizing clarity, enhanced by the red handkerchief
robust chest, on which rested her violets smooth softness.

The two orchard to see Rafael exchanged a sly smile, a wink significant and passed in front of
the lady with the purpose marked as not to interfere with their presence.

-
Follow you - said Leonora .-- We will go slowly to home.

They left the two women live step, talking quietly. Leonora guess smile their faces invisible.

- Have you seen these? - Said pointing his umbrella closed .-- Have not you noticed their smiles
and winks at him on the road? ... Oh, Rafael! You are blind and is terrible. If I had to save
my reputation, aviada was with a friend like you. What things pose there!

And smile with an expression of superiority, considering well above what they could that the people
of his friendship with Rafael.

- In the market you tell me about all the vendors as if this was for me the most irresistible of
flattery; ensure that we are a proud partner. My gardener takes all occasions to tell me you're
very handsome. You give thanks ... What else? Even my aunt, my poor aunt who lives in limbo, has
left it to me the other day: "You know Rafaelito here so much? If you want to marry you? "You see,
married ha! Ha! Ha! Married! The poor lady did not see more than this in the world.

And he kept throwing in the face of Rafael, dark and evil thoughts, that hearty laughter and mocking
chatter seemed a mischievous bird satisfied with his freedom.

- But what do you frown today! Are you sick? ... What happens?

Rafael seized the moment. I was sick, yes, sick of love. He understood that the entire city
speak of them, he could not hide his feelings. If I knew what it cost that silent worship! I wanted
to start thinking of devotion to her, and could not. Needed see, hear, and only lived for her.
"Read? impossible. Talk to your friends? All repugnant to him. Their home was a cave that
went to great effort to eat and sleep. She left as soon as you wake up and leave town, it looked
like a prison. The field, and the field the blue house where she lived. Which eagerly awaiting the arrival
of the afternoon, the time by an unspoken custom, neither scored, he could enter the garden and
find it in your bank under the palms! ... I could not live like this. Poor People powerful
envied him, so young deputy, and he wanted to be ... You'll never guess what? What absurd things!
Leonora is not mocked!

The terms would be that the bank was for the garden, gently crushed by the weight of your
entire afternoons, to become the work revolving in his delicate fingers,
by transforming themselves into one of the people around her at all
times, of that Beppa, for example, that the wake in the morning, leaning
asleep on his head, moving with her breath her hair undone, scattered
as a wave of gold on the pillow and wiped her ivory flesh out the
bathroom, sliding your hands for incoming and outgoing curves of her
soft body.

Servant, animal, inanimate object something that was in constant
contact with him, that he craved: not to be compelled to the arrival
of the night away after a prolonged farewell ending child pretexts,
to return to the irritating banality of his life, the solitude of
her room, in which dark corners, as evil temptation, he thought he
saw eyes fixed on green.

Leonora was not laughing. Abríanse inordinately gold flecked eyes, quivering with excitement
the alillas of his nose, and seemed sincerely moved by the eloquent young.

- Poor Rafael! Poor me! ... What do we do?

In the garden, Rafael had never dared to speak so frankly. Le proximity self-conscious of relatives
of Leonora, intimidated him and mocking the surface air with which she received visits, the
irony with which he aimed it a little disconcerting words of love. But there in the middle
of the road, was another thing was free, I wanted to empty his heart. What torment! Every day he
went to the blue house trembling hope, troubled by the illusion. "Perhaps is today, "they said.
And his legs trembled, and saliva in his throat seemed to solidify, drowning. And hours later
in the evening, desperate to return home, marching discouraged in light of the stars, zigzagging
on the road as if he were drunk, feeling beetles tears on the eyelids, wanting to die, as it
needs to pass breaks forward and fists against a huge wall of ice blocks. Did not noticed him?
Do not see the huge efforts made to please? ... Ignorant, humble, recognizing the vast difference
that separates them both for their different life, what's efforts to reach his height, for
those placed at the level of men who had owned for a few days or whole years! She must have noticed.
If the Count was speaking Russian model of elegance, Rafael next day, to the astonishment of his
home, took out his best clothes, and sweating under the sun, oppressed by the high collar, undertook
that journey it was her Street of Bitterness, walk like a lady so that dust does not dampen
the shine of their boots. If the musician German crossed the memory of Leonora, he revisited
his books, and affecting the outside neglect of those artists seen
in the novels, arrived there with the purpose of discussing the immortal
master of Wagner, whom he hardly knew, but she adored as a person
family ... My God!

All this was ridiculous, he knew him best was presented without disguise, with all its smallness. Acknowledged
that it was impossible that struggle to match with the thousand ghosts that filled the memory
of Leonora, but do not do it for wake that heart to be loved for
a moment, a day any more, and then die!

And there was such sincerity in this confession of love, Leonora,
increasingly agitated, approached to him, taped to his body walked
unwittingly and smiled slightly, repeating his phrase, mixture of
maternal affection and pity.

- Poor Rafael!

... Poor me!

They had reached the gate leading into the garden. The avenue was
deserted.

In the square, shut off the house, ran around the chickens.

Rafael, overwhelmed by the effort of that confession, which took account of anguish and dreams of
many months, he leaned against the trunk of an old orange. Leonora was facing listening to him with
bowed head, scratching the soil with the tip of his red umbrella.

Dying, yes, he had read this many times in novels could not suppress
a smile.

Now you do not laugh. I had thought a few nights in the confusion of delirium, end that love
tragically. The blood of his father, violent and domineering, boiled in it. If she convinced
that it would never be his, was not to kill anyone, and kill him later! Drop the two on the
ground soaked with blood, as on a bed of red damask, kiss him in the cold lips, without fear
that no one bothered him, kiss her and kiss her until the last breath of life was lost in
the pale face of it.

She said with conviction, vibrating all the muscles of his face manly, burning like coals Moor
her eyes streaked for the passion of blood veins.

And Leonora was looking at him now passion, as if he saw a new man. Trembled with emotion on hearing
the new barbarians dreams, death threats.

That is not gloomily as the poet killed Italian looking lost love died killing, destroyed the idol,
if not attended to his pleas.

And sweetly moved by the tragic expression of Rafael, was carried away by it, that had taken
an arm and drew her away from the avenue between the tops of the orange low.

Both remained silent for long. Leonora seemed intoxicated by the virile perfume of those threats
of wild passion.

Rafael, the head down and quietly watch the artist, thought he had offended his words and repented
of them.

Should forgive him, he was crazy. Exasperated at his strength is inexplicable. Lenore Lenore
Why strive to hinder the work of love?

He was not indifferent to her, not inspired dislike or hate, otherwise they would not be friends
and would allow continued visits.

Love? ... I was sure that was not sorry for him, poor man, unable to inspire passion for a
woman like her. But do not resist, and eventually love him, he achieved conquer by force of
love and of worship. Ay! with only his love, was for the two and all the famous lovers in history.
It would be his slave, the carpet that would his feet, the dog always tended to her, his eyes
burning of eternal fidelity, would end up loving him, if not for love, gratitude and pity.
And as he spoke, brought his face close to Leonora, seeking his image
at the bottom of the eyes green, pressed his arm with the fever of
passion.

- Careful, Rafael ... do you hurt me, Let me go you.

And
as if awakened in the middle of danger after a sweet dream, she shuddered,
detachment with a nervous impulse.

Then he began to speak calmly,
and record of drunkenness that had troubled the passionate words of
Raphael.

No, what he wanted was impossible. The die was cast, I did
not love ... Friendship I had taken something away. She was to blame,
but know about it. It was already a boat old who could not bear the
weight of a new passion. If I had known years before, maybe. He acknowledged
that he had come to love him, he thought more worthy of your love
others men she had loved. But it was late, now I just wanted to live.
What horror! The emotions of passion in a mean, in that small world
of trivia and gossip