 These people had gone dark, from island to island, from the bottom Mediterranean
to the Straits, which is its door.

The captain imagined their boats made of tree trunks just trimmed, moved to paddle, or rather
thrust of a shovel, no other help than a rudimentary sail only ex-tended to blow from astern. The
first Europeans Navy was equal to that of the wild islands of Oceania, who are still currently in
its fleet of logs of islands in the archipelago.

So they had dared to break away from the coast, losing sight of land, venturing into the wilderness blue,
advised of the existence of the humps steamy islands of mountains marked on the horizon at
sunset. Each advance in the Mediterranean sea this stammering had shown greater audacity and
waste of energy that the discovery of America or the first trip around the world ... These early
sailors threw themselves not to the sea ??adventures: they were people en masse, taking with
them families and animals.

Tribes, Once installed on an island, let loose fragments of his own life, who came to colonize,
through the waves, other land nearby.

Ulysses and his second major disasters thought ignored by history:
the storm surprised to exodus navigator, whole fleets of rude rafts
swallowed by the abyss within minutes, families dying clutching their
pets when they were going to try a new breakthrough in its embryonic
civilization.

To get an idea of ??what were their small boats, fleets recalled Ferragut of the Homeric poems,
created many centuries later. Winds instilled a religious terror sea ??to the warriors gathered
to fall over Troy.

Their ships remained chained a year in Aulis ports for fear of hostility in the air, and appease
Mediterranean to the gods sacrificed the life of a virgin.

Everything was danger and mystery in the realm of the waves. The roaring chasms, crags barked Sirens
were singing the pitfalls that were attracted to his music to craft
to disintegrate. There was no particular god island, no monster, no
mage Cyclops or warping of artifice. The terror was the first god
of the seas. The man, before he tamed the elements, tribute them more
superstitious fears