 Do not be afraid to say that, properly fear,
the disturbance which is not silent day or night, but it's true that at this time would accompanied
me more than I see on the solitude in which I am. Soledad say, because to be all things to these
places at the point where it always was, and being this good people what they always were for
me now is that I have lust for something that gets me deeper than this, through what it is
and know where to walk. Yeah, man, yes you of knowing you that all the law I had my children,
and mother and your father and mine, and that for many years has been as if asleep in the
depths of the heart, I was awakened suddenly, aged in his hunger priming the only meat from our
own you know: you, so you know at once. Because your sister, the distance is from us, is for
the case as if no longer alive, and I do not want to breed our two sobrinazos seconds mine, by
my mother, two degustation bigardones bad and worse to live. Not long ago down from his people asking
me "something", at this hour and in such terms that I had to give the "God you for protection"
with the shotgun lying in the face. First and only time I've seen.

"For good and for a finishing touch to the way that I bring and I'm tired: I think if we encourage
you and give me the gift of your company in this house, the cry of the earth, I would be more bearable.
There is nothing more to do tempt among these solitary crags, you who are seasoned the buttocks
and gifts of the court, but to everything men do when they insist on it, without also relevant
here is its sun, and although it is true that it takes a little in the morning in transposing
the peaks that surround the place, and lights up once warms and gladdens the soul like the
sun more friendly of any party. In addition, your exile could not last long for reasons that
I know, and last settlement, to leave it in could not resist as he was finishing the story for
you.

'Item more: I have certain plans in the Magin, they give me much to do. What man walks free
them for me? I have no heirs and no longer have at home something to throw losing my own membership,
something that will go God knows where, if my last and rearward no mole at sight with a being
that makes me a little tingling in interlinings of the heart.

"Of course, I do not try to turn on your lust with these hints.

A large part go! But all is well and have stipulated this in hours that have begun run to me.

"Well,
man, come on come over here, and if you can not do it for fun, do
it for charity of God.

"

Least the 'slump' and its consequences, all that my uncle told me this letter to me I was well
known, and knew also, what is easily deduced from its earlier low correspondence with us and how little
I had told my father, who was his brother Celso a folksy man of few lyrics and excellent heart,
acute and somewhat cunning Magin, as a good mountaineer, and more careful cultivation and prosperity
of their land and livestock, which the promotion of their affection for the family she had
left; sloppiness that sometimes played in an indifference seemed bordering the absolute oblivion.
Unless I knew my uncle in his native land and of our solar house, not so much because of my
lack of curiosity about such matters as by the work of one of the most salient weakness of my
father. He further called attention surnames personal conditions of "our", and thus to ask for
life and times of any of them, rather than straight answer to the question, perched at the
top of the family tree, and crawled from branch to branch to down, not stop to give the least,
with the leg of the Cid, if it is satisfied with that. Their parents could only take in clean,
at different times asked news on them, which had been the junction of the house "only" of the Ruiz
de Bejos of Tablanca, with those of Gómez de Pomar, the most illustrious of the promise. Few
flow, yes, by mainly the latter, that is, by my paternal grandmother, who only brought into
the marriage a few necklaces and earrings of coral, two silver reliquaries a splinter of the
True Cross, and a bone of St. Felicitas, respectively, three sets of linen, linen tablecloths
home two, a gold chain from Cordoba, the prom dress with his marriage, and another half for
everyday use. On my grandfather was a thing very different. Our house Tablanca exercised throughout
the valley, by virtue of their status amen of noble charity, certain undeniable and patriarchal
dominion, and was forced whereabouts of all the notable people who passed by, even bishops. Just
as remember my father had stayed two in it: the de Santander and Leon. For these and other necessities
like chests and cabinets were in good supply of linens and table linens higher abundant solid
silver table and up to two damask bedspreads and a crucifix ivory and ebony. Nothing was there
that must not be missing from the house of a family like ours. But its situation, its form,
its extent, its comforts, or short, at most, which was great, with sunny, coat of arms and
ancillary. Ground it was located and its outskirts, the conditions and appearance of landscape,
climate, of its resources for life more than animal, the customs of its inhabitants, was idle inquire
anything by reports that good sir, that be so paid out of race and put on the horns of the moon
the arms of his house and the land they had born only once and very quickly returned to it
after having left it, though rule of necessity, as a boy yet. Went back to the top of all that
had heard and read about this empingorotada region of the Cantabrian Mountains, and was to
see how they are there, primarily with the Celts, our putative progenitors, and took down then
from there to become embroiled hand in hand and as one fan and regular fair price and current
family issues, with those tribes untamed, with that fierce Spaniard passed the Alps with Hannibal
against Rome fought and defeated Scipio in Ticino. After talking Augustus and his legions who
have come to Cantabria expressly to subject the Roman yoke; that that was our thrust, that
"our" value and that "our" attachment to independence, that Caesar had six years to succeed in
an endeavor that had seemed to work a few days of the horrors of this barbarous war between inaccessible
crags and deep and dark ravines where the water roared inks in the blood of "our" and hardened
legionnaires. No missing as of mothers during the war killed their little ones to not see them
slaves to foreign winners, nor the death of so many cross martyrs singing hymns of freedom from
curses to the conqueror, and with all this, a number of details about the type and the mores of
his heroes, details that I had wanted on the land they inhabit, as it was in my days. Far from
it, leaving only Cantabrians to mix his successors in the epic of Covadonga or the trouble of "Bands"
of Castile, and you put here with dithyrambs their illustrious "ancestors", ran with them the
five parts of the world to not know where he was, nor I either. Because on these matters my
father was a generous scholarship, but somewhat suspicious, work a greed that came with the truth
as with the fantastic, by clinging tenaciously, but purely platonic, things of earth.

In this way I knew it, upon receiving the letter from my uncle, little more is known, by guesswork
or by comparison, other fellows who have been "passing" and very quickly.

Meanwhile I had already served thirty-two years for six who was a doctor in both rights, albeit
unknowingly, by disuse of them, what they were for those things more
than seven that field for my respect, and gave me the high life with
the flow that I inherited from my father.

Because my mother did not inherit a penny. Granada was a very pretty daughter of a judge Hearing
of that land. He met my father walked over there a while, busy mining
business, and married her in the overnight.

The judge was a widower and poor, and died two years after the wedding of his daughter.

I owe to God, among other grants, the temperament of a uniquely balanced moods, which allowed
me to go through the most dangerous hardships of life, while including the lower strip of skin. Very
few things have touched my soul, and I seldom I have a passion for the best of them. This has
been my greatest fortune in the midst of freedom and abundance in which I lived, being pampered
and spoiled child, while I was' son of the family " rich and detached
from all constraints when it has no father and mother and declared
myself "boy open house.

" Under these conditions and a passionate temperament, God knows what had been of me and my
money. Still, not increase the legacy of my father, and even drop him a good chop, because not
all the time ran the same for the vile farthing; and I, though without losing sight of how useful
it is this ingredient to live at home with the men, there was born to a slave to him and had
entrenched interests that were not cheap. I liked traveling, and traveled extensively in and outside
Spain, I liked the so-called "big world" or 'high society', and frequented its halls, theaters,
field trips and even fashionable resorts, and sports, I like the Fine Arts, although considered
mainly as a luxury item, and buy paintings and sculptures in the exhibition; I liked certain
men of politics and literature, not by politicians or by literati precisely, but the resonance
of their names and the attractiveness of their conversations and frequented his treatment and
accompanied him in his circle and their feasts and gatherings in and revelry ... I even liked the
bullfighters at a distance, and distance grew the friendship of some of them.

All this, and as much more than it follows the law enforced at the end of the day was wear
expensive and produce deep, if not hide, at least moral sensitivity, even though it is a boy
like me, who aspired to be no box set of the first term, or half-inch lift on the common size of
the mass of spectators, and this, not virtue, but by the exigencies of my temperament.

It is very noteworthy that in the hobby more pronounced of all mine, the travel, seduced me much artifice
of men that the work of Nature.

As good Madrid, loved to Madrid over all earthly things, and after Madrid, similar to Spain and
abroad, the largest and liveliest capitals of the civilized world. What remained among those,
I did not care, and passed on it, to go wherever he went, as insensitive projectile that has given
whereabouts from their point of origin. Son and resident of land plain, mountains and sky saddened
me fuzzy fearfulness me.

Once one had been in the mountain capital, masking a desire to tread "the land of my ancestors" my
father would say, the temptation to spend the summer at the port began to be "elegant." Rail crossing
near the Cantabrian Mountains above the sources of the Ebro, recalled that "there" did not
know whether the right or left, had to walk my ancestral home, in a withdrawal of those mountains
mists and tight hooded black oak. And then had more resonance in my heart this much-vaunted "cry blood."
Days later, and from one of the heights overlooking the city, Santander, practical So I named, pointing
with his finger, every peak and every mountain of the great mountain range that begins at
the East Cape and Galizano Quintres (the tail of the huge reptile), and ends at West poking through
the clouds the Picos de Europa (his head).

Then, by drawing in the air with the same finger during each river of her birth in and the bottom of
his black cliffs tumble, arrived addressed to the West, and marking three stripes almost vertical,
I named the Sakha, the Nansa and Deva, and there I stopped him with thought, telling me himself,
"Along with one of the three rivers (I think the Nansa) plus above or below, must walk the site
of my elders. "And this just fell for the second time, "the cry of blood" who had in his veins. As
decoration, that I fell in love string of jagged mountains from east to west on the south
serve as grandiose setting the wonderful bay, but as habitable land!

...

Such were, peak, peak less, my personal background when I got the letter in which Celso my uncle
called me to his side, indefinitely, from the depths and Mountaineer of the Cantabrian region,
and yet, no embassy gave me unpleasant impression as might be assumed to take exactly what was said
about my way of being and feeling.

Apart from what interested me the physical and moral of my uncle,
I was not so in love My way of life, scares me the risks of radical
upheaval for some time.

Without feeling "tired" of living as he lived, because there was no drop at ride so calm and
relatively orderly as he had used me to get where he come by so many dangerous roads, began to
notice at the time certain languor spirit, inappetence certain moral certainly were not at
odds with a break homes, and much less an exchange of views and "food".

On this side, the letter My uncle could not be more timely than it was in my hands. The serious,
unexpected terrible thing for me was on the other hand, the quality of what I called it. Resolved
to change their lives for some time, God knows what paths I had taken, but certainly to me that
never would have chosen that my uncle wanted and I intended. Get there to make a visit, stop
by long, even to know view the site of my grandparents, thank goodness, but to settle it;
make the lives of the beasts among crags and brambles; acclimated she suddenly ran into the
station (rather than mid autumn), the threshold of winter Why should he see Tablanca! Water newcomer
I-Hi Paris and halfway around the world "Distinguished", with suitcases packed with 'new', both
in carrying clothes; reinstated in my "comfortable" single house ... Come on, was the height
of the impossible dream even trocar in all that and so suddenly I was offered from Tablanca.

But I could not tell my uncle these things that would hurt a lot in the situation of mind in
which he found himself, he entertained his urgent request dispatching evasive polite, claiming that
he had business, and targeting "see" without the slightest intention of comply.

Ente Thus, the vision, my way, Tablanca's house, with its mountains and wild animals and their people
and their wintry desolation, not a moment away from my eyes, because the pleadings my uncle,
more alive, came to touch me deep inside, and what might happen,
felt the need to put the case in question, which is as good as the
rules experience, as you start to compromise.

The truth is that one day, I received the second to last letter from my uncle, I very comovió
deeply, say in the matter of looking within myself why I be so insensitive
to agreed charms of nature.

Are you missing that string in my body had either not had put in hand to vibrate? For there
to find out, because it began to mortify the fear of not having it. Additionally, or is one man,
or it is not, or has or does not have guts humanity, guts to go where you go and do what others
do, or serves or served for something more useful and more juice and enjoyment to tread rugs
salons, kidney fat a Jewish innkeepers, tailors and shoemakers in
fashion shows to attend, devouring distances crammed into cages rail
docks, and spending, in short, time and money on trifles in vain and
frivolous slut.

On track the discourse on this path, I feel a force of spirit, a virility unknown to me my
love soliviantóse own good healthy boy of soul and body, and taking advantage fever, fearing that if it
was temporary, it will take my ardor to disappear I wrote to my uncle saying "here I come" and
even by attaching the date of my departure from Madrid. Among I would therefore my travel arrangements,
and I answer he gave me the necessary instructions to get home from the last railroad station.

As
I walked busy making abundant supply of warm clothing, sturdy footwear, weapons offensive and defensive
Aimard books of Töpffer and few, including Chateaubriand, have pleasant things written about mountains,
forests and wild, as if projected a tour of the center of a remote
unexplored continent, I can not answer that Missed me fever.

Less secure it when I tried to "lift" my house. Seemed that this amounted to burn my ships,
or at least to me and had consented to by to be very long my stay among the bears of Cantabria, and
the fear of this risk I leaned to leave these things as they were on good friends in Madrid that
they would look for them. At any rate, nothing is easier than solving the contrary from there,
if you ask the circumstances.

Finally, fearing that this remnant of my weaknesses is I would still brewing other air cooler
and enervating, closed the doors of all reflection speech contrary to the agreement, and boasts
Alea est, I thought, like Caesar, resolved to pass all costs for my Rubicon.

II

And the company rushed on the agreed date, one day in late October, cold and misty in the heights
of the Roman "Juliobriga." In the classic villa immediate end of my journey first and only
possible by train, I stopped half an hour away: the purely essential members to stretch and comfort
the stomach, because there was no time to lose according to the opinion
of the footman who was waiting for me at that point from the previous
day with two nag land, and chaparretes espelurciados, one to drive
me and one for bear my luggage.

Launched all well run and mid-morning, before the footman carrying
the spur the horse that was barely visible beneath the heap of my
bags and wrappers, without leaving the center of the town by a bridge
crossed the Ebro old newborn and rather short stretch down there and
after a short lie down, it was on that side as suburban population
we left back, Vimon free field, if free can which is encircled called
barriers.

From the summits of the highest fell off wisps of fog that enveloped
them, and mimicked left to dry wet fleeces in tips of the rocks and
the thickness of those secular and almost inaccessible trees, with
the mountain air blowing constantly, and so fresh, that forced me
to lift up the ears, the neck of my new raincoat.

Continuing our journey faced west, we had continually to the left, water above the river, with its fresh,
green and pompous bank vaults and canopies willow, alder and blackberry, and topábamos from
time to time with a small town, although not very happy color, spice up the monotony of the landscape.

At
the edge of the last of this series of them in the center of a small amphitheater of bare
hills in their tops, were reborbollando the copious springs emerge
from famous river, after briefly haven to orientate in the field and
gain breaths from the slopes of their own crib, escapes from there,
running around, hiding from light whenever possible, as everyone who
does evil to leave soon for his native land, bring the benefits of
their waters to foreign fields and unknown people, and pay to inattentive
during his tribute to all his wealth to whom you should not be in
a good law.

Y to faith, or my eyes deceived me much, or would work very easy and cheap to tackle the runaway
a short distance from their sources, and as punishment for his disloyalty, cast him down headlong
downhill without giving rest to give point, macerated and in foams, the wrath of its owner
and natural lord, the broad and fiery Bay of Biscay.

I should spend too much time meditating on these and other childish things, and taste the memories
awoke in me the contemplation of those crystal clear waters that have so as do history and
the imagination of poets, because the footman, saving all the usual compliments on his rude
courtesy, I noted the desirability of us to continue walk.

- Da Grim - obeying said - think of the behavior of this renegade mountain.

I had to decipher the metaphor for the footman to understand me what I wanted to say; and as
I had understood, he replied:

- Déjeli, déjeli to go in grace and, earlier, before jaz Aonda needed more than here. Pa meter
Malis buya and cause maybe, people have many Rius as estimated by the band here.

Explicóse turn the footman for me to understand, and I became convinced, with examples I became
overwhelmed mountain rivers perhaps without why or wherefore, sweeping houses bridges and mills
in the highest, and eating in the valleys the land should be watering, that may well be meritorious
what had seemed in the Ebro unpardonable.