 

Did not cause me hesitation that flow of words, but I finally hear. The affectionate exasperation Oliver
served as a calming on my nerves terribly excited and tempered his tension. I asked him to
forgive me that start, end of my daze, ensuring in my words there were no hints of distrust. I begged
him to let this crisis pass of weakness, pain and fatigue result and promised to change the gender
of life. Lived in the same social and recognized it was wrong of me not to haunt him. Had should
certainly not be singled out with a systematic withdrawal. He said a portion of sensible things,
as if suddenly regained his reason. And he also missed unless the expansion of our privacy,
making us more flexible, more conciliatory, better, being together, I spoke to him, his life
almost entirely passed away from me, and I regretted not knowing what was done and whether he had
reason to be satisfied.

- Satisfied. That is the word - he said with an almost comical .-- Every man has particular
vocabulary for their ambitions. Yes, I'm pretty satisfied at this point, and if I settle for
satisfaction which have no information of chimeric, my life will run in perfect balance and will
be happy to satiety.

- Have you heard of Ormesson?

- None. You know how that story ended.

- Why a breakup?

- No, by an absence that is not the same because
of the past and keep each other the only memory that never gets dirty
memories.

- What now?

- Now!

... You know something?

...

- I know nothing, but I guess you've done what I recommended recently.

-
Indeed - Oliverio said smiling.

Then he turned serious and continued:

- At another time I'll tell you. Now there is no chance. The atmosphere of this room is permeated
a very respectable emotion. There is no promiscuity among women of which you speak and that
other one whose name must not be uttered even while on the other
hand.

Sound of footsteps in the hall interrupted our conversation. My man said Augustine rarely came to
this hour.

The sight of this energetic and forceful face me returned to some extent a bit of energy. It
seemed as if the fate sent me a reinforcement at that moment you
need it.

- You arrive in good time - I said .-- seeking animated
show was not worth the take me so much work, right?

You see, I have destroyed everything.

Hablábale always meets a former student on his teacher, and giving
them the right questioning me about my homework.

- It's about to
start - he said, not surprised by what I saw .-- I know what is!

...

Oliver said nothing.

After several minutes of silence, yawned gently stroked with hand
his curly hair and said:

- I'm bored and I'm taking a walk in the
Forest ...

X

- Does it work? - Augustine asked me when Oliver left
us.

- Very little, and yet, learn as if working.

- So much the better.

Has attracted luck.

If life were a lottery, this young man's dream numbers would come out winners.

Augustine was not the kind that induce or those who should enrich a dream number. What I have
been told it must have made him understand that he was not born for favors of chance and that
all the items he had made his will stop, worth putting more than profit. From the day I saw you
leave Trembles, with a letter arrived from Paris in the pocket, as a soldier with his itinerary
in hand, their hopes had received more than one check, but this had not diminished his strong
faith nor did he hesitate, just for a minute that success, if not glory, were Paris at the
end of the road that he undertook. He did not complain, did not accuse anyone, do not despair
for nothing. Without any illusions had the tenacity of the blind hopes and what other would
like pride, there was in it rather than feeling very accurately determined their right. Appreciated
the things with the serenity of a jeweler who tested quality jewelry doubtful, and rarely mistaken
in choosing which were worth devote time and labor.

Had protective. Do not think it would dishonor seek support, because he only proposed an exchange
of equivalent values. And this contrast - he said - not ever humiliate that contributes to
society the number of his intelligence, zeal and talent. Did not affect contempt of money - which
was in great need Sabíalo .-- I without him tell me. Did not disdain the results, but placed
well below a capital of ideas, as him, no one can represent, or pay. "I am - he said - a worker
who works with tools low cost, it is true, but what they produce is priceless, it is good.
"

Not considered, therefore, grateful to anybody. The services we had done had bought and pagádolos
well. And in that kind of sales - which exclude hand if conventionalism social treatment, humiliation
all at least - was his way of offering, which determined notably
the high price that his understanding was only fair.

- From the time
that half the money - he said - and no more than a business in which
the heart does not fit all and that does not compromise in any way,
to thank.

I and das. The talent itself, in such cases is not simply a duty of honesty.

I had tried many positions and tried different companies, not a hobby,
but by necessity.

Not being able to choose the media, had the gift of the application rather than the flexibility which
allows applying all. A force of will, vision, burning almost made up for natural powers which
recognized private. His will, supported on special good sense and perfect righteousness, miracles.
Made all the higher forms, noble, sometimes brilliant. Did not feel it all, but nothing that he
did not understand. Also approached the manifestations of pure imagination by a tensile stress
of his mind, always in touch with everything that the world has better ideas and more beautiful
and bordered on the pathetic by the perfect knowledge of the hardships of life and the devouring
ambition to achieve legitimate satisfaction, even if it were to barter a long struggle.

Having addressed the theater - for which it was not considered sufficiently recommended or with
enough preparation, - was launched in journalism.

When I say it was launched, do not use the word to explain the idea, because she did not corresponds
to the action of a man who, being unable to stunning, are presented in fore with the courage
informed of prudence does not risk much more than that to achieve favorable success.

A few months ago he had entered the service of an eminent public man, as secretary.

- I - I said - in the midst of a movement that appeals to me, but I am interested and illustrated.
Politics, in these times, includes many ideas, makes so many problems, which is the test mean
more instructive and more especially designed to be a crossroads looking ambition output.

His material situation was unknown to me. The supposed hard, but was that an issue about which
it seemed unwise to speak.

Sometimes the only continent that tireless fighter betrayed to his dismay, no hesitation, but
suffering. The stoic Augustine said nothing. His attitude was the same as ever, their way of thinking
had not lost one iota of the usual strength. Acted, thought, resolved as if he had never suffered
the slightest onslaught of luck, but it was an indescribable indefinable, something like the red
spots that appear in the garb of a wounded soldier. For a long time I had asked what part of
that organization vulnerable iron had been lacerated, and finally realized that Augustine,
like everyone, had heart and realized it was the noble and courageous
heart that bled.

Then he sat down and so I saw him cross his legs one over the other,
with the attitude of a man who has nothing to say and enter a friend's
house forgetting the object of his visit, I realized that he was not
in the spirit and cheerful disposition.

- Have not you are happy,
my dear Augustine? - I asked.

- Have you guessed it! - Replied in
a tone that showed bitterness.

- Need is to guess when you have pride
in not declaring it.

- My son - he continued, using that form paternal
always lent a certain charm to the rudeness of his advice - the problem
is not whether one is happy, what matters is to find if you have done
everything to become so.

A good man deserves, undoubtedly, be happy; but do not always have
the right to complain because it is not yet.

It's about time, the moment of opportunity.

There are many ways to suffer: some suffer in error, others impatience.

Excuse me a rebuff of modesty. Maybe I'm just a little impatient.

- Impatient? And of what? Did you know?

- Not alone - he said with singular emotion, - so that if I ever reached a name not see me reduced
to a sad result of my selfishness crown.

Then he added:

- Do not talk about these things too soon.

You'll be the first who will realize them when the time comes.

He was silent a moment, standing up said:

- We are not here: this smacks of defeat. Not that it bothers me, but makes you want to be abandoned.

We
went out and walking, walking you caught up with the specific complaints of nuisance and disappointment
that I had. My letters had warned him and the rest of the day it assumed Magdalena and he saw.
I did not find, therefore, no difficulty for him of the serious circumstances of a situation
he knew so well as I, nor to explain the perplexities of my soul
in which he had measured all the strength and every weakness.

- For
four years I know you love - told me the first word he uttered.

-
Four years?

But then I knew not to Magdalena!

- Do you remember, my friend, the day he was surprised the misadventures of Hannibal crying? Well
Well, at first I was shocked, unable to admit that college composition could anyone move like
that. Then I reasoned that had nothing to do with Hannibal emotion. So read the first of his
letters from you I thought, 'I knew', and as I saw Mrs. Nièvre realized that it was her.

As for my procedere judged that it was difficult but not impossible to direct. Whereas the issue
from different viewpoints of those who take Oliverio, advised me to heal, but using procedures
considered to be the only ones worthy of me.

We parted after many laps around the walls of the Seine. The night was approaching. I found myself
alone in Paris at a time unusual, aimless, lacking in daily habits,
no connections, no obligations, thinking anxiously

- What shall I
do tonight?

What shall I do tomorrow? ...

Totally forgot that since many months, throughout a long winter, had not company. It seemed to
me that when they had abandoned acting in me, and I was no Assistant to handle a life hereafter
would leave me in the vacuum idleness. The idea of ??turning my house does not even crossed
my mind by thinking I went to look at books I had gotten sick with
disgust.

I remembered that Oliver should be at the theater knew what and who accompanied him. Not having
why more cowardly to resist, I took a car and I drive. I took a dark box from which expected
to see Oliver without being noticed. It was not in any of the other boxes he had in front of
me. I figured that would have changed the project or would in any locations high above me occupied
and I was given no see. Having failed the plan of him in his gallant adventure, I wondered what
it was that there had to be done. I was, however, and it would be difficult to explain to you
why: such was the disorder my spirit which is shuffled with boredom, penalties and fainting with
perverse curiosity. Sinking look at all the boxes occupied by women, views from below were an
irritant exposure almost disembodied breasts and bare arms only partly covered by gloves. Examined
the hair, eyes, smiles and looking for persuasive comparisons can endanger the perfect memory
of Magdalena. He had only one desire: the impetuous desire in any way to evade prosecution of
that one memory. The debased to my taste, and dishonor waiting for that environment, render
it unworthy of it, get rid of it by dint of dirtying. Leaving the theater, when crossed the
lobby I heard a group of people the voice of Oliver. He spent about me and not I saw. I could
barely see a distinguished-looking person, very elegant, who accompanied him. We went into our
respective departments about the same time and I was still in suit, when he appeared at the
door of my room.

- Where are you? - He said.

- From the theater.

And what I said.

- Am I looking for?

- I was not intending to get you, just wanted to see - I replied.

- I do not understand. In any case these are trifles or other shrimp
that if you were not the forgive you.

But you're bad and I pity you.

I did not see more for two or three days. Severity had to be vigorously addressed. It was reported
me and my man and I knew I was worried about my condition and without seeming to watch me.
Each day of inaction exhausted me more and more demoralized me. Took no decisive match, but I
felt that my weakness was going to swoop down the first accident
that moved him.

Three days later, at a Forest Avenue why I walked desperate, I saw slowly a fine carriage harness.
Iban in it three persons: two young women and Oliverio. In As the latter recognized me, jumped
quickly to the ground, grabbed my arm and without saying word made me into the carriage and then
he was sitting next to me as if it were of abduction told the driver: "Go ahead." I felt lost and
it was, in fact, for some time at least.

Regarding the two months of this loss - which lasted only the time at best - I'll refer only easy
to foresee the incident that ended.

At first I forget to Magdalena, because I remember every time he came
to my mind, I said, "Flee!" as respected hidden from view at certain
frames hurtful or embarrassing.

Never once saying his name. I put together an obstacle world and indignities. Oliverio A moment
came to believe that this was over, but the person with whom I was
trying to kill unwelcome memory that was not deceived.

One day, for lightness My friend, who was reported as slightly less
stronger believed my reason, I knew that their businesses claiming
the presence of Mr. D'Orsel in his province and that all residents
Nièvre would be moving soon to Ormesson.

At that moment it was adopted a resolution and decided to break.

-
I come to say goodbye - I said when entering a room that had never
set foot.

- That's what I would have done something later, but soon
- she told me without express surprise, or disappointment.

- So Do
not resent me?

- No way.

You do not belong.

He sat in front of the toilet and said, 'Goodbye', without looking
back.

But I looked in the mirror and smiled.

I left her without explanation.

- Another folly more - Oliver told me when he heard what I had done.

-
Stupidity or free heme - I said .-- I'll Trembles and take you with
me.

Will not be difficult are resolved to come to a holiday.

- Trembles do you? Magdalena "Trembles? - Repeated Oliverio whose plans had disrupted my abrupt
and reckless decision.

- Dear friend - I told her estranged throwing
myself into his arms, - do not tell me nothing, nothing objective.

I'll be cautious, very cautious, but I will be happy too, give me those two months, they will not return,
I will make a finding that it is short time and perhaps the only period of that that I will in
my life.

He spoke so ardently driven by desire, I was so refreshed, so changed
by the prospect unexpected that trip, that she was tempted and was
weak and the generosity of nod everything.

- Sea - said .-- In short,
it is incumbent on you to you alone.

I am not a guardian angel. After I quite all the steps leading only two raving lunatics like
you and me.

XI

Those two months' residence with Magdalena in our lonely home in the countryside, shores of our sea,
so beautiful in such a season, was a source of constant delight, mixed with purified torments
me. Not a single day that is not designated for any large or small temptation, not a minute
that does not correspond to a beat of my heart, chill, a hope, a disappointment.

I could tell you today, the date and precise location of a thousand
emotions very faint traces of which has remained in my memory, despite
the smallness of fact: I would show you this corner Park, just steps
from the terrace, this field site, the people of the escarpment, in
where the soul of the insensitive things so well preserved the memory
of Magdalena and mine, if you seek - God forbid - I would find as
recognizable as the next day our departure.

Magdalena had never been in Trembles and that residence, although a bit sad and median liked.
As much as I had the same reasons as I to have deposited love it,
I had heard it so often that my own memories had been fully released
v helped him feel good there.

- The earth is like you - I said .--
I had imagined how, with just him to you.

It is a melancholy landscape, quiet, gentle heat. Life has to be in that half peaceful and
reflective. Now I understand better certain features of his character because it corresponds
to the characteristic features of his native country.

I was very pleased and it penetrated the intimacy of so many things closely related to my life. It was like
a series of subtle confidence that I initiated in and had been led to understand what it was.
Besides the desire to surround welfare distractions and care, was also the secret desire to
establish between us ties of education, intelligence, sensitivity, almost by birth and parentage,
which had to make our friendship more legitimate, paying who knows how many years old.

Magdalena Complacíame test the effect of certain influences, physical rather than moral, to which
I was continually subject. Put before their eyes some natural scenes, chosen from those who, invariably
consisting of some vegetation, plenty of sunshine and a vast expanse of sea, had the gift to
move me infallible. Observed in what sense could impress, why aspects of poverty or of greatness
might like that horizon always sad. As I was given wondered about the details of sensitivity
all outside. And when he was in agreement with me - that happened much more frequently I would
never have expected - when it sensed the echo entirely accurate, as the moved in unison fiber
vibrating in me, finding an agreement most of which welcomed me as a new alliance.

So I started to see me in many ways she would have suspected without
understanding.

Judging on more or less normal routine of my life was learning quite exactly what was the hidden background
of my nature. My predilections will reveal some of my concerns, and what she described as singularities
more clearly seemed to him discovered as the sources. None of that was the effect of calculation
yielded a result quite ingenuity to not leave room to have to reproach me if there was something
that resembled at the slightest appearance of seduction, but innocently or not this is that I give.
She seemed happy. For my part, thanks to such continuous communications between us created
innumerable connection points, tornábame freer, stronger, more sure of myself in every way; and this
represented a great improvement because Magdalena saw this as a step in the path of openness. This merger
complete, consistent and progressive without an accident lasted two long months. Failure to do
secret wounds, countless, infinite, were nothing compared with the consolations that followed
the cure. In short, I was happy and seemed to be whether that is to live fast, in love with
all his might no cause for repentance and hopeless.

The Lord of Nièvre was a hunter, and he is the subject that I have come to be. He gave me with great cordiality
in the first trials of an exercise class that I liked after to the
passion.

Magdalena and Julia sometimes accompanied us away or we waiting on the shore while we were
making long sweeps toward the sea. Distinguíaselas from afar as bright flowers perched on the boulders
to edge of the blue waves. When incidents of the hunt took us too us away or held until later,
we heard the voice of Magdalena who invited us back. Tan soon appointed to her husband or Oliver
and me. The wind brought us those calls alternating our three names. Pearly notes of that
voice, launched a large space from the sea weakened as they flew over that area without echo;
came to us as a slightly audible murmur and when my name is not distinguished predictable sense
of infinite tenderness and sadness she felt.

Sometimes, and hid the sun we were still sitting on the high on the coast, engaged in do die
at our feet the long waves that came from America. Covered boats crossed the purple glare of
the sun, awash lit lights, headlamps, with lightning flashes and
intervals fixed and the yellow vessels at anchor in the harbor, resinous
those of fishing boats.
