 

Exmo. Sir, -

Assumption, July 19, 1792.

Although several occasions I have spoken to Your Excellency of my ideas about the demarcation
and Portuguese settlements, yet the importance of both points forces
me to add some considerations I have suggested the latest news, to
put them on notice VE King in no time, because the delay could hurt
us.

In addition to the justice that gives us the latest treaty or contract, to go the line, or line
dividing by rivers or Monici Yaguarey and Corrientes, according told on June 20 VE 1791, it
will not only this province in one year will continue at no cost any, from the tropics to the
parallel of 22 ° 4 'which are the best land in the viceroyalty and yerbales next to the river,
but with this we will have more coming and abundant scales to go to the Chiquitos and to the
establishments that make up the coast, and separate for provided to the Portuguese: for all
the lands north of the currents to Lagoon Xarayes are impoblables because increasing the flooding
of the Paraguay River to very long distances, without allowing the Lusitanos come to us or
to the river or try to benefit those yerbales to sell the grass,
or winning their mines where high esteem - these benefits are invaluable.

The

latest news, reported by D. Jose Antonio Zavala, who is fortifying in 21 ° of latitude, we are
assured, that from thence to Coimbra, which is located at 19 ° 53 'there is no poblable land
on the western shore of this river. On the other hand it is known that since little Beyond Albuquerque,
located in 18 ° 52 ', the Paraguay River runs through the Laguna Jaurú Xarayes of which is
land subject to flooding and intractable. So, the only upland the shore of the Paraguay River
are, for the eastern tropics from Concepcion to the river or Corrientes, and the West, from
Coimbra to Albuquerque.

This last piece of high ground is just the closest to the Chiquitos, and that only twenty leagues distant,
at which distance there are two cords coming from serranias northwest to south-west: one, called
San Fernando, kiss the river in Albuquerque, and named San Pantaleon, in Coimbra, according
to warn me Chiquitos. They found the Excellent. D. Manuel Flores, in the final demarcation, all
signs of gold and diamond mines and other hand, Herrera (Decade VIII. lib. 5. Ch. 3. in fine) said: "That
Nuflo Chaves, having discovered Itatin the province where the mountains are mentioned, many
metals to thirty leagues of the old Santa Cruz, returned with sixty soldiers, forges and tools
to take better understanding of these mines, but was dead before
arriving. 