 

Father Anselmo was far from being bad and being ignorant. I knew no little dogmatic theology and moral,
and had remarkable clearance and prodigious eloquence, but he was stubborn, persistent the
views that once accepted, and ignorant of worldly affairs. Doña Inés also I had sucked his brains
out. Doña Inés filled him with a veneration and love subtlety spiritual, which became for him
an oracle. He was the devoted affection which is filtered and school often in the heart of
the old virtuoso: love without desire and without defect; what up Plato calls himself shocked to
feel it, What is so subtle, so ethereal and as clean as semi-divine feeling that describes and
painted with bright features Count Baltasar Castiglione in the last golden pages of his Courtier.

Father
Anselm had never read this book and had not fallen or might fall
into that feeling sweet inclination, but without being conscious of
it revered like Dona Ines angel or saint.

Was blind to all faults and sins of her, and did not see or did not believe see in it but
virtues: prudence, charity, meditation and religious piety. For Father Anselmo was married Dona
Ines model and mothers and exemplary sampler distinguished ladies and learned. In everything
you said about Juanita said no other try to avoid or suppress the scandal and bad example that
the play was and giving.

Influenced by these ideas, had prepared the sermon preached that day and dealt with application
to the circumstances on the same subject he always liked to try:
on corruption of our century and ominous symptoms that are effective
alternatives and causes.

Because the lack of religion makes to collapse morality, as a building whose foundations are
undermined, while the excessive gift and careful body away to dapper the souls of all serious
meditation diabolically toward the temporal and perishable, and inflamed the hellish appetite
to possess and enjoy it. Hence the ambition, greed and lust, Satan network that we tend, bait and hook
that draws us that fishing and leads us to devour him. The disbelief and heresy arise from
the softness and luxury, and ambition and greed, they spread, they spread and infect everything.

The
father illustrated his doctrine with historical quotations. The Albigenses, who became Holy Sunday
with the help of Simon de Montfort, had fallen into the abominable heresy because it gave
the feasts, elegance and evil passions. A mischievous woman who had seduced Martin Luther guilt
that she try her Protestant half of Europe.

And the evil Anne Boleyn was the means that he used the devil to take over the English, who
were once fervent Catholics. Greed was, however, worse than lust, and that while every revolution
heretical or unholy began with sports, relaxation of customs affairs and was always the greed
that managed to triumph, making the revolution in Cocagne, on whose upper end put the goods
of the Church.

- Maybe - added the father - the honest and peaceful walk very confident now imagining that it
ended the era of revolutions, because the church is poor and has no assets that removed, but
oh, how sadly wrong!

A lack of church property shall be made available or get as high up the greasy pole, the assets of wealthy
individuals. And even fewer scruple to seize them, as they say, because the seizure (handy word
not to use another very hard cuadraría better) will not be sacrilegious.

Then the father spoke of socialism, refuting and trying to prove that each of his utopian dream
and delusion is insane.

According to him, there will always be rich and poor, and figuring and successful social revolution,
led by inescapable result that those who are now rich are poor, that some of the more clever
and bold poor become rich and the crowd of the poor are increasing in numbers and suffering
from abject poverty, because a large portion of the wealth will have been consumed or destroyed in
the strikes, riots and civil wars. However, if the established order is preserved and ensures
that nobody gets rich mocking the Penal Code, all work and decently managed, where grow the
wealth and welfare; and the rich will be richer and be more, and the poor are less poor and needy,
and the day will come back in time to come, in which the poor are better treated than the rich
now. But now and then there will be classes and social hierarchies, and it will just be respected,
because there are up in heaven.

Here recited much the father against the ferocious efforts are showing
so many people to leave of its kind and without sufficient merit raise:
the grocer, just because it is enriched, aims be Marquis, the usurer,
Duke, Sergeant, general, without going to war, and shameless wenches,
ladies and lords.

Against all these abuses spoke vehemently, or rather launched sparks and lightning, flowing at
length on luxury and expensive women's ills which it originated.

The little body of a girl stuck up and very dressed hive called Lucifer, whose honey sweetens
poison, and from where the bees and drones of sharp spines, that is a damn swarm of vices, sins
and foolishness.

In addition to shock with this class cause men to the holy places disturbing the peace of the spirits
and prevent its elevation, is spent to sustain this estate more than
honestly earned, accepted gifts from suitors and coax them money.

Letting go, then, for slope so slippery, the poor girls who get pestles are very easy to hustlers.
"Well understood this - said the father - the wise and glorious Queen Isabella the Catholic,
when shocked to see a festival that occurred in Segovia certain adventurous dressed in silk, and
banned the use of silk which were not noblemen and ricashembras, which was providence discreet
and moralistic. "

In short, Father Anselmo was good that day, uncensored censored vice to vice, and not appointed or
referred to anyone.

This is accomplished by the malicious envy of women, excited by deceit
by Dona Ines.

All Juanita made to dress up their insolent looks white. Consideration unlawful origin of the
girl came to corroborate the belief that it was sinful. Each which reminded himself there in
one of several rulings that hold as vulgar true transmission of the blame for the blood: like
father, like son, the goat its spots, but whoever inherits, not steal, the greyhound breed comes
to being Dartford and and the mother and daughter and the blanket and the blanket.

The two Johns did not sin by shrunken nor fearful, but just could
not resist shedding and formidable storm that dumped on them.

Apparently the mother was more affected. Juanita was not losing the serenity and repose. His pride
and the belief that no had committed a serious lack of sustained. The pain, however, and anger
at the undeserved affront bathed her cheeks turned crimson over. And down her vision, blurred
with eyelids and lashes curled and light in his eyes, that two poorly repressed tears moistened.

After the function matched mother and daughter to slip away unnoticed and rushed back home.

XVII

Juanita dropped sprawling in an armchair.

Juana walking, going to and returning strides in their living room, like a lioness in a cage.

-
You've seen - he exclaimed - more impudence!

Oops ... the mantesonas, the pu ... head nuts! For if Prohibition lasted even silk, which of
them would carry no contraband? Best knightly and ricashembras God gives us. Silk and silk were
very two daughters of the clerk, but "although the monkey dressed in silk, it is cute. " Are ugliest
night thunder. And where have drawn his nobility? Maybe we will not know they are daughters
of Frasquita, whom God has forgiven him. Cagarrache was the widow of Don Andrés mill when the tried
and he married the scribe. And why he married? To remedy this, because she had insider enough
money with a large poultry house, and even more with his ability to avian chickens. Although
going to the sly and not spend whistle, called the gringa. What a feeling in those fingers
executioners! To escape her as pliers entrecogía what I was groping in the poor animals, and left
dozens Aviados, without being in disgrace No operation. Then the barley and put Gordis and sold
very expensive. I ask the father Anselmo if trade is cruel ricashembras own.

Juanita soon recovered his momentary dejection, and said:

- Look,
Mom, do not speak of the daughters of the scribe.

Do not want bad.

If I looked brazen and scared, was pure dumb.

- Well, my dear, I do not know why they had to panic. In the minor is not repaired, because it
is so chiquituela and consumed, that looks like a Gusarapo, but most striking was good. Dressed
in red and so fat he looked like a huge tomato with legs. And then, what impudence! During the whole
Mass was her boyfriend at the edge of it, still a Jew, as he had appeared on the procession.
Good nobility is that of Pepito, the son of albardonero! Instead of market so expensive suit,
his father had to make a pack that could do with. Although it has become Granada degree in law,
as still as a donkey was braying except Latin and long the kicks accordance with international
law. But in the end, you're right. We should not complain about them. We despise them. The father
pulled the Anselmo is to blame for everything.

- Do not curse the father - said Juanita -. It is a blessed, holy mirror. Much of what he said
in the sermon was wise. And if committed in hype, I well know why. The Catholic Queen silk
ban undoubtedly because in his time things would be understood very differently than in the
day, and because the cost silk then a pretty penny and ruin the country. Anyway, I do not know
why the queen forbade silk. Perhaps it is not true prohibiting it. But if it is or is not, what
do I care? I do not complain of the queen or the cure. From whom do I complain is that liar
prude Dona Ines, who is the has armed against me all this gatuperio.
She will pay.

I swear to Christ who will pay!

And rising from his chair then went to his mother with eyes flashing, and making the cross to
cross himself, said solemnly:

- For this cross I swear: I will be avenged. She will remember me for all his disgusting life
or I have to delete the name I have.

- Yes, my dear - "said Juana
- vindictive, vengeful.

Nothing is more natural and reasonable, but without no evil thing. And above all, do not swear,
which is a mortal sin. Vengeful without oath; with rum and malice.

- Do not worry. I miss rum. I have to hide more and I will be more hypocrite than that indina.
Malicious intent is what I have not, my intention is always good.

At this point in his interesting discussion, both interlocutors heard terrible street din of
voices, whistles and careers.

They looked out the window and looked through the lattice. Barely had time to watch the world
go run over crowd of people, and a wild cow, tied a long, sturdy rope, which pulled fourteen or
fifteen young men of the most robust and agile. Other boys stung and enraged the cow, beaten
with the cookies and stinging pitaco behind with pita or scape.

No looking at Juanas followed what happened in the street, because most touching spectacle
suddenly offered to his eyes in the same room.

Don Paco appeared, whom the maid had opened the door with a big red ball in his arms. Soon
recognized in that ball to the eldest daughter of the clerk, who
had been faint and fat and black and blue bump on the forehead.

Cheeks and nose smeared brought in the yellow substance and sticky to the flies came. At first
he did not suspect such little substance but then they knew they were buds despachurradas.

In a bag, which the groom had a holiday, the Dona had Nicolasita, not broke nose because he
dropped them on the buds.

Rapt conversation with her boyfriend, who was at his side, with head cover as a hat and almost as
nice as her, and followed his father and his sister, had been everyone
in the square, where Johnny had squandered holiday sweets.

There were completely forgotten that part of the program of celebrations and festivities that
celebrating the Saint's day, a bull rope, which was then cow, as stated above.

Passing a group down the street where both John lived, they suddenly heard the commotion and saw
the throng of fleeing from the cow, and even then did not remember the danger he had exposed.

The
clerk, without thinking about their daughters, with tails and all, climbed up the bars of
a grating and were able to escape. The younger sister, who was very slight, perhaps because so
mean and lean meats, also climbed to another gate, which looked like a monkey.

The groom was very gentlemanly and wanted to imitate Edgardo, the hero of the novel by Walter Scott,
Lucia di Lammermoor, which he had read, but the cow did not understand the heroism and threw him the
floor, giving a shove to the forehead. Fortunately, the cow did not hurt him any attention,
because only his attention and attracted him this round, red mass that ran ahead of her long skirts
waving. Since the street was covered gayomba and sedges and many drops of wax that had fallen
to the procession, the floor slippery too. It is not therefore surprising that Mrs. Nicolasita slip
and give in the ground with snouts.

Thanks to two pounds of buds that came between his face and stones will not Trunk the poor.
Only be made on the forehead above the bump.

His terror was immense and causes from her swoon. There, in his feverish imagination, seemed
to feel the horn penetrated treacherously in its most delicate meats,
and on the one hand, and on the other, and as the terror, and before
Faint ensued gave the tantrum, waving the red skirt and called the
bull, or say the cow, which was coming.

The strength of the young men stopped pulling the rope prevented had that day a disaster and that
the function ends in tragedy.

Don Paco, who came by to visit his friends, seeing faint Nicolasita
Dona, lifted her in his arms and took refuge in their house.

When both found out what happened, forgetting the anger, met with
godly laws of hospitality.

They return to their dismay that the victim of the cow, using their noses very strong vinegar,
with the same watery vinegar put you in the bump pads and blindfolded him with a white handkerchief,
so that Mrs. Nicolasita like a Cupid. And Finally, he washed his face and removed the crust and
Churrete buds.

Don Paco aided in all this to the two charitable women.

The clerk, Jimmy and sister recovered from the shock and came to the door to call Dona Nicolasita,
which, also restored, went in search of them, without giving occasion no time to enter.

Perhaps it might be thought that this precipitation in the game and not get into the house the
other had been of pure embarrassment, but as Mrs. Nicolasita not thanked but a way very dry,
scaly Joan and Jane were both attributed it to disdain and suspicion stupid rebates and contaminated
in the treatment of them.

More so than ever amostazada Juana la Larga, taking advantage of a time when Juanita had gone
to his room, talked to Don Paco in this way:

- Mr Don Paco, you will have seen plenty of the shame that we have done. Your daughter, my lady
Dona Ines, is to blame for everything. You figure you will have cajoled, and that we want
to suck and lick his parneses. Sick you know that's not true.

My daughter accepted the court dress and the odd gift, but we have
paid, if not far, in the right.

The coat that you wear silk is worth putting my daughter has worn today and that has caused
the fuss. We love you, as good friends, but not so much that we sacrifice ourselves for you,
if we will continue to receive for a loss, and to be able to drive us there. A lot of fun
Juanita the conversation about you, but I do not want conversation that leads nowhere and that we
can very expensive. So, I say with sorrow, and without thought of offending, transpose you
and not again appear in this house, at least until circumstances change, it is change someday,
and if not modified, you seem not ever.

Don Paco is pricked and was stunned to hear this speech and he failed to give an answer. Something
stuttered, but the resolute Juana gave him no word. He pushed the door and poured into the
streets rather than return her daughter.

XVIII

Don Paco bewildered with the events of that day, and more so with the removal of just be subject,
not knowing which way to go or what to think, and mechanically went home to meditate and do self-examination.
The first thing he noticed was that he had very clean. It was no crime, but could pass for extravagance,
who was in love that girl could be his granddaughter. Having gone home every night for some
weeks just seemed careless and worthy of censure. Juanita was, successively and sometimes
simultaneously, different concepts, as if at the bottom of it would be something mysterious and
indecipherable. He acknowledged that plenty of Juanita, if you had not given pumpkins, it was
because he had not declared in order, but call your grandfather's jokes and the skill that
she used for him to not speak to the ear and avoid being alone with him, looked tired clear
he did not want to admit to a boyfriend or lover. However, Would this calculation or ladino
woman's instinct to better captivate or entertain with vague hope? Don Paco also remembered the whispers
of Juanita and put Antonuelo jealous.

If she would be charmed by Antonuelo, and considering that a boyfriend was not convenient, think
in plants and decided to order by Don Paco, as the best match and convenience? If you hesitate it between
his own taste and what your mother, no doubt advised him? Whatever it was, Don Paco was stamped
on the fabric of the trial the image of Juanita, and each time it
seemed most beautiful and desirable.

Felt too well that neither her mother nor she had ever tried to thrive at their expense in a sinful
and unlawful. Maybe the mother wanted him to son. What is the daughter until then had shown no wish,
much less seek to lover or for a husband. He had done all the progress. Fault was all this
furor raised against the two women, which he had no doubt that Dona
Ines was promoter.

Considered then Don Paco, and it flattered him and made him very plump, Juanita, since not
love him, was delighted with his conversation, I was laughing the jokes, he applauded the shrewd,
and hear him speak, was very attentive and aware of your lips.
In that house, where he had been thrown, but had not been honest
and friendly favors in payment of which, and went by it was, the two
women had just received a grievance gory, for which he believed required
to find satisfaction. Exalted by these thoughts, Don Paco decided
to go see her daughter, honestly and loyalty to explain what had past
and demand an accounting of their malignant behavior.

Of great value
had to be coated to dare to take that step. Doña Inés, with its severity
and stiffness, he almost struck fear but shame overcame him, did his
best to remove him himself, and went, with all the vigor he could
collect and accumulate in your mind, to house Mrs. Dona Ines Lopez
Roldan, who knew he would find one at the time for siesta.

Home of
Dona Ines then ate at two in the afternoon. Don Alvaro, when he was
not in the field, went to bed at once, and as he ate and drank enough
of the exquisite wine grows there, and that is better than Jerez,
with forgiveness is said, tended in his bed and was snoring until
four or five in the afternoon