 Arrived this oppression
to such an extreme that they took away the women and children to instruct them in their sect. Profaned
temples and monasteries as old, where he had deposited many bodies of Saints and Large memory
of our early Church flourished in both those provinces, trading true false and abominable religion
in worship of their prophet. But as for the righteous judgments of God had already given of
slaughter and enslavement of all the Empire and nation, was of little use to achieve everything
freely than ours did, appear before this was confirmed by its ruin, for when the great remedies
do not cure the disease because they give is almost certain death. Our captains are stopped before
going into Philadelphia, where neighbors recognize some places may have been removed and redone,
but everything is free of the Turks, to whom fear was extending many miles.

CHAPTER XIV.

Philadelphia enters the victorious army.

Ganánse some strong that the enemy had near the city, and give the Turks the second broken
beside Tiria.

Philadelphia's free site, so tight that they had for the value of arms of the Catalans, the
army went out to meet the judges and people with Teolepto their bishop, a man of rare holiness,
and whose prayers are defended rather than Philadelphia army weapons kept it. The troops of
our cavalry first with the banners up and won by the Turks. Continued after the carriage filled
Spoils enemies, and large numbers of women and children captives, and some waiters reserved
to the success of the entry. The infantry companies were the last, and among including flags and
captains most marked, with lucidísimas weapons and horses, as unheard of in Asia, caused them
great admiration. No soldier in that entry in particular it was, you did not see silk or scarlet,
though at that time the Turks did not wore expensive suits, but among the spoils of the Greeks
had achieved a lot Clothing and apparel of great price, that this victory was gained. They
stopped fortnight in the city, entertained with feasts and rejoicing that they did, because it
was something remarkable love and respect with which they treated the natives, who acknowledged
them as freedom and life that had them so risky.

The need is always grateful but with the benefit received, SEAC.

Roger went to Philadelphia to set at liberty them that some people were empowered the Turks,
and among others to Culla some leagues beyond to the East of the City; but withdrawal and flight
known of his army, the Turks withdrew. The natives doors were open, like someone escaping as hard
labor, thinking sorry that this reach easily have been delivered before the Turks. Roger forgave
the crowd of people, but severely punished to many. Beheaded the governor and the old master
of the regiment more condemned to the gallows.

Was it a while yet without dying, and attributed to cut the rope miracle who were present,
and he escaped.

The army returned to Philadelphia, according Pachymeres says Roger collected many ducats, was made
to contribute more than it should, by now in the City feel the lack of supplies, for him to
be very populous, and have in the army, having suffered a long site that was so tight that a donkey's
head sold for an incredible price. Nastago Primicerio Duke and the Empire, who was active in
the army with Roger, left him and went to Constantinople, because he could not see how Greek
mistreating the natives, and bleeds Roger towards them, and arrived at Constantinople and the
Emperor wanted yese and as this was denied by the debtors and friends of the wife of Grand
Duke, to which I can l understand, he went to the Patriarch, and
through them the Emperor gave ear to the complaints who brought against
Roger, that went on the Palace great discord among friends and rivals
the Grand Duke.

It seemed to the Captains of the army that the enemy first Convention made Provinces sea, because
it is not powerful to the back, and because the vicinity of its armed them give more strength
and security. With this determination left for Philadelphia after Nice, a city of Lycia, and
thence to Magnesia which is on the banks of the river Meander, where Roger was only when two
citizens came to ask relief Tiria saying, that City was not sufficiently fortified that could
defend the terrible assaults the enemy, and that if relief is delayed, it was indeed the lost:
that the Turks with little it could take to care while they were scattered over those plains, and
make some good luck, with great honor the military and their own profit, that on arriving the night
they retired to the woods, and when the sun came back to cut and destroy the campaign. Roger
with all the haste and diligence that people could take more unencumbered and loose, and went around
to Tiria get into it before the day.

Came to be as good a time, nor the Turks could discover, or feel, having walked thirty-six
miles in seventeen hours.

Morning came, and the Turks began to descend into the plain, and came to town, and it were near
the doors to its usual rushing when CORBA Alet Steward went out to refute them with two hundred
thousand horses and children. Laid on them with so much gallantry, that they broke, and slew the
most part, but remained in entrer recognizing our men retreated to the roughness of the mountain.
Corbara them continued with some of the cavalry, but as the horses of the Turks were unfettered,
and our weight loaded with weapons, arrived at the foot of the mountain to time Turks fearful
and cautious of their lives alone, had left the horses, and improved of course, because they
took the heights of which could store and best offense, preventing rise to his enemies. The
Steward in a better mood that advice, he issued apeasen the his, and he did the same, and rushed
the second time the Turks, but as they were in high, and had some qualms with stones, and defended
the rising arrows, and throwing blows safer and more certain to those who are pointing, CORBA,
as brave and valiant knight, was the most I squeezed by him, and come up with lighter, and walk more
loose, took off his arms, then the helmets, the occasion of his death
because he was given an arrow in the head, then died, with the loss
of others withdrew.

With the death of Captain trocóse that the victory of the day in sadness and feeling, because
lose a good head usually cause some inconvenience and damage more consideration, it is not
the profit resulting from the victory that comes with death. Sintiólo Roger very much, that he
had agreed to marry his daughter, and put in his person the best hope. Corbara life lost more
honorable end to the other captains, because fell sword in hand, and the same victory, and
not by the hands of traitors and other his companions. Short the speech of men who are great misfortune
is that could be counted among the prosperous life events. CORBA Prévinole honorable death to other
cruel and outrageous, as they are, as you believe, the same risk as the other captains. Buried
in a temple two miles from Tiria, to where it says Montaner, who was the body San Jorge. They put a company
ten Christians, who alone died in that encounter. Levantáronle a marble tomb, and honráronle with
great gifts, because just to meet his memory stopped eight days. In Tiria dispatched orders
to his army, who was on the Island Jio, so as quickly as he could pass to the mainland of Asia,
and make it stop Ania waiting in second order.

CHAPTER XV.

Berenguer de Rocafort arrives with his men to Constantinople, and by order of Emperor board
Roger at Ephesus.

Berenguer de Rocafort arrived from Sicily at this time to Constantinople with some vajeles and
two galleys and two hundred horsemen, and a thousand Almugavares, having gained and of King Charles
the money he owed him, and restored the castles of Calabria were in his possession. Andronico then ordered
him, when sailing around the Asia, attempt is coupled forces with Roger, and so very soon
came to Jio, where he found Ferdinand Aones starting, and together they came to Ania, where Roger
advised to don two light horses Rocafort's coming with his family. Reached this new Tiria before
leaving, and causes throughout the country great joy, and by the people who brought Rocafort,
which was great and chosen, for the opinion he had a very brave and valiant captain. Roger then
sent to visit with Ramon Montaner, and with orders to depart after Ania, and came to Ephesus, Altobosco
this by another name. Montaner left with a troop of up to twenty horses, and with some people
practice, to guide him by devious ways, not to meet the Turks, who usually ran the ground, and
jumped more passengers roads. Valióle Montaner to the diligence and care little, for he often had
to lead the way by the sword finally came to the City of Ania free of these hazards. Gave the
welcome to Rocafort from his, and told him that Roger ordered about his departure. Rocafort obeyed
and leaving for the army garrison of five hundred Almugavares, with the rest of the people
took the road to Ephesus, where he was accompanied by Montaner within two days. This city
is one of the most noted of all Asia for its famous temple dedicated to the goddess Diana.
It was not only revered by the Romans, but the Persians and Macedonians, who had before the
Empire, and all retained their immunities and rights, without ever mudasen moving Empires:
such was the respect with which the ancients revered things was persuaded that had something
of divinity and religion. But the biggest title this City have to be famous and celebrated,
as it is to have the Apostle and Evangelist Saint John the first
foundations of the faith.

In this Holy refer what Montaner writes, that refer to this history, it seems foreign to ours.

They say that in this city of Ephesus is the tomb where St. John was locked when she disappeared
mortals, and shortly thereafter saw a cloud up in the likeness of fire, and they believed she
was caught in his body, because after not appear. The truth of this has other basis greater
than the tradition of these people, referred by Montaner. The day before San Juan, when you say
the eve of Holy manna out of nine holes of a is on the marble tomb, and lasts until the sunset
the other day, and is so much, Climbing a palm on the stone, which
has twelve long and five wide.

He treated this manna of many serious ailments, that the concern characteristic Montaner.

After four days and Montaner Rocafort came to Ephesus, Roger also entered yet the army. Everyone rejoiced
to see Rocafort friend and companion in all the wars of Sicily for relief they brought, who,
being far away and into enemy was of great importance, and vastly increased the Aragonese forces.
Then gave them to the office of steward to empty Corban death, and everything that happens, Roger gave
his daughter in marriage, having CORBA was first agreed, because this new relationship with Roger
claimed the condition and roughness of Rocafort, coupled to try new things. Gave him a hundred
horses for people he had, with guns on horseback, and four pay. In Ephesus, says Pachymeres, Roger
and Catalans made remarkable cruelty to withdraw money, cutting members, tormented, slaying the
unfortunate Greeks, and that a rich man Metellin principal called Macrami was beheaded because
promptly refused to give five thousand crowns which he was asked:
license daring military and ordinary people of war ill-disciplined.

Roger, all the money, horses and weapons collected from the contributions of the neighboring
cities sent to Magnesia with a good escort, because in this city as the strongest of those provinces,
determined to put his seat for the winter. Of Ephesus went together to the Ania City, where
he was Fernando Aones with the navy. They made a big welcome Rocafort to Roger and to the soldiers
who were in Ania, to receive with great saliéndoles joy and rejoicing because they appeared
together was enough to recover the Asia made it to the Turks. Roger thanked and met this good
reception, giving an allowance all soldiers in the army, and because Tiria was unarmed and defenseless,
determined to send some people to safety. Diego Hidalgo was Orós Aragones, good soldier, horses
and one hundred thirty infants, because it seemed that they would stay in the defense City and
its surroundings, trusting more in the reputation of their arms,
that the number of people: which often reaches the reputation they
can not strength.

CHAPTER XVI.

Repress the audacity Sarcano our Turco. Reach our flags to the confines Natoli and the Kingdom
of Armenia.

Captains council had our way it would take, and everyone agreed that they should return again
towards the eastern provinces and past the mountains, from entering Pamphile, where they thought
that they would be the major driving forces of the Turks, and would have occasion to come
with them to battle, this was always the main effort was carried, for being our army so small, could
not make war over, and occupy cities and places having to leave garrisons in them, because
it was divided forces and undo, and so it seemed successful long walk around the Turks, and fight
them. But while that execution was put out, Sarcano Turco to know that the army of the Catalans
was within the city, ventured to run its plain carrying fire and sword as soon as put forward.
Paid for their daring and madness soon, because ours came without waiting order, or wait for
the Captains: both were offended by the audacity of the Barbarian, and brought down so quickly
on him and his family, who then wanted to retire but could not without much damage, because
it was found that there was so determined to fight to escape.

Followed our scope until night, and returned to the City with new spirit, leaving the dead in the
campaign enemies thousand horses and two thousand foot, a thing hardly believed by those who remained
within of the city, because the output was very late, and much disorder.

Captains Roger and the others considering how harmful they could be the arrest, if soldiers warned
of the danger of attempting to stage and road with the taste of victory last wanted within six
days march the field. Ania left, and crossed the province Caria, and all that vast space between
the provinces which are Armenia and the Aegean Sea no enemy would oppose them. He walked the
field to the comfort of the places very leisurely, comforting Christian peoples, and encouraging
them to his defense, and universal admiration of all the faithful
were greeted us, glad to see Christian weapons as to inside, which
then lived ever saw in their provinces, although desire always called
them and waited, but the weakness of the Greeks never gave rise to
that they saw, until the value of the Catalans and Aragonese he showed.

CHAPTER

XVII.

Fight with all the power of the Turks the Catalans and Aragonese in
the foothills of Mount Taurus señaladísma them and reach victory.

Shortly before arriving at the foot of Mount Taurus, which divides the province of Cilicia Armenia
the less, they paused, and tried to get tickets first recognized and steps dangerous, always suspecting,
as was the case, which awaits the enemy. While This is consulted, the cavalry who recognized the campaign,
found the enemy army awaiting the our between the valleys of the foothills of Mt. Hornbills weapon
in both armies, and seeing the Turks discovered, and had left his trace vain and fruitless,
were resolved then out to the plain, and undertake to us who came a little tired of the road
before they could rest or improve position. Was in the field of twenty thousand Turks infants,
and ten thousand horses, and most of them were those who had escaped the broken past. Then he lay
down his cavalry on the left side, and the infantry on the right the return of Cristiano field.
Roger Opusose with the enemy's cavalry, which by closed front and
side with ours