 Of the
timber had been great warriors and most distinguished citizens. Would merit of their harvest to
sow it their way? Anyway, my uncle's work must live ever, as many other generous benefactors
of their kind.

And here came, their steps are numbered, so while I was watching was coming.

- You're young - even told me - and done and accommodated the pier and spoiled life of the great
cities, and entirely strange, less by his blood, in this world stirs and small stirring among
the dark recesses of these regions great. Too bad - he said - all this together is an obstacle,
but not invincible, that the work of Don Celso Tablanca take you
on a passionate follower!

Because if you're not, who will be now?

Stretching a categorical answer to this suggestion as strict, send
me off with a "Who knows?

"half in jest, and this question must further from your subject to the knight:

- And in these districts, how are things?

- Oh - I responded in the act with a gesture that was as good as saying "do not talk about
that" --. Over here I would like to see Don Celso ... but who knows! ... What I can state that
I, with the pen, with the word, example, day, night, I have not stopped
my duty, to why I returned here, to devote all my time that, in that
I spend my health and my short flow ... everything but my perseverance,
which is indestructible ... but as if sown on a rock, for the very
deeply rooted bad again here, or I do not give good to remove her art.

Then, as if to orient to their taste on the ground that it was, began talk, as if he were reading a
book (such was the abundance, clarity and method which exposed me) of the patriarchal organization
of these peoples from the earliest "Brotherhood" that formed in the eleventh century simultaneously
with the Crusades, developing my eyes the vast picture of history since then here in features
as brief as vigorous and expressive, tying in with the facts and highlights of her most glorious,
those that humble race of dark mountain. Oh! I knew only vaguely pompous dithyrambs by my father
in his exaltation manor, how I learned that night, and with what pleasure, about the vicissitudes
interesting has happened that elusive corner of the world, so ignored that Cantabrian region of
strangers and even themselves! Then I understood what they were worth the books and archaeological
research of the man, for to claim for his "hometown" the glory that was denied in large, pulling
them the dust of the archives and under the crust of the earth.

Arriving by road so pleasant to the prosaic realm of present day and
try our starting point, as he calls it the "bad new" in those and
other rural counties, Dijon, interrupting what I had begun to expose
and conceived it as a necessary caveat:

- I must warn you that even
if they sometimes seem, I am, or a hundred miles, a blind passion
of all the past.

I think, because the view is that things are changing as time flies, and the Castilian proverb
that "other times, other customs and other laws, "but I, without ceasing to be a man that day, but
on the contrary, the same as I am, that these changes in the customs and laws are derived by its
own weight, say, of the nature of things themselves, that laws are accommodated mode of being
of peoples, not peoples to the laws of another party because it den good fruit. Not all sites
are equal to get a good seed, as we said by confining itself to the smallness of these regions
wild, I want, finally, that that has been enacted for good and the application has been bad,
even change, to prevent further disasters. And with that proviso, I keep saying that the impossibility
that such deep-rooted evils are removed with the isolated work of men of good will, I would
say the state from here: "Take, on the concept that pleases you most, what in good and strict
justice we owe to our poverty to raise the common charges of the country, but leave the rest
to make it what we see fit, let us our commons, our wise ordinances, our traditional councils
free, in end (and saying to the fashion of the day), our municipal autonomy, and Christ with
all. "If thus can not be achieved so I'm looking for Don Celso achieved in the valley, he would
walk nearby. But why did she give himself that if he is to live a disastrous system that governs
us and which deny and his most fervent admirers? Or rather, how they live without the protection
of it, as it is, men used today and govern us? How are they to be masters of life and flow
if you do not have in their hands all the threads which it leads to the most hidden corners of the
nation's will, the threat and blow the real tyranny a thousand times worse than death ...
And full stop, because if I continue where I go, I lose my temper.

Neluco and I had heard that charmed him most gladly welcome, especially Neluco, who was a cantabrazo
as a hill, and as the session had been long and women entered from before to warn us that dinner
was ready and ask your master if it served had already struck eight in the hourglass of "back
there", the point decided in the affirmative Neluco and I, for one
delegation courteous, took possession of the servant light, left the
office before us, and we all three at the dining room, another room
was quite shabby and very cold, located north of the house.

XV

The dinner was not very varied, but plentiful and tasty. They all partook of sound character
and austere lord of the tower. Meat and milk in two or three ways, and some fruit of the earth.
More or less, as my uncle.

But he needed amenity to the dinner by own simplicity, and I found
ourselves Neluco well done on the word of our noble host.

The man was a well full, brimming with knowledge, and deployed as jumping lips It jets. Native
soil was soaked in blood mass, and everywhere walking with their imaginations and their speeches,
was to stop him, and he spoke up with the strange language of poets or historians or geographers
of antiquity he had been brought to account in their verses or books immortal. And in this task committed,
sometimes had unexpected and sudden exit lane, but not the scope of their dissertations, really
great. Had shown, eg, in a beautiful period, how the region mountain in northern Spain was settled
by the Greeks before the Phoenicians, with texts Mela and Strabo, according to which these historians
found in the Greek customs Cantabria independent until the time of Augustus, adding a long
list of others still exist today in those valleys, as the wedding song, translation, and perhaps music,
the nuptial Greeks, and lamentation for the dead, and suddenly jumped to conclusive statement that
the famous "Jack" who not only sings in Aragon and Valencia, but in Navarra and higher, until
the birth of the Ebro valley Campóo that was more Spanish than African (I never dreamed it could
be that doubt!). And then came the highly original proofs.

- Also - I remember I said - we retain in the Mountain Warrior men dance alone zorcico like the
Basque and 'raw dance "of Asturias, children, all of the dances Celtic Celtiberian that on
moonlit nights was held to one God vaguely known.

I do not know if this was credible at the foot of the letter and sound foundation for his thesis, but
course was nice and spark escaped from hammering on the main, far
more serious and demonstrable.

I also took to square excursions and entertainment since he arrived from Madrid. I told him where
he had gone and the highest peak that had risen in the company of
Don Sabas.

- Well, the observatory was chosen - he answered - though
I know better yet known as Don Sabas, although not as handy as that,
which is enough to admire Nature in one of its most resplendent a
novice at these things.

From the observatory - continued excited - you would back the snow always rocks in which they
live at home chamois, below the dark green of the oak with the clarity of you ... finally, lebaniense
oasis where vineyards and olive vegetate as in Andalusia, as in Rioja
and Aragon whose summit he could see the other side along the rolling
motion of the Ebro Looking North, columbraría our sea, our tremebundo
Biscay, and to the south, the vast plains of Castilla la Vieja.

Beautiful chair for a history lesson Montañesa! ... While away, the rock is also distinguished
slice for closing a hatch port Alibaba and the cliff where the wave
came to the conclusion rejected Mohammedan Covadonga; East, after
Reinosa and swampy plain of the Vilga, a mountain suddenly cut as
a Titan's hand, leaving a sharp isolated peak: that is the Horn of
Bezana "and his own standing there are two natural wonders: the cave
of Sotos-Cueva, which so no one has touched, because most probably
just in wonder: an underground lake where join the waters around the
valley.

There was another battle like at the Covadonga century, although it was so held because they
were winning the Moors in Cordoba. Al foot of another mountain range that is clear to the South and
return to this chaining the Ebro, Brañosera, and just below Aguilar de Campo, the lair of bears and eagles nest,
beginning another stream of men no less fierce, after ravaging the command of Alfonso I, areas were
repopulated slowly Gothic Spaniards. In order to finish this soon outline the big picture that
can only be assessed from that point of view, if you wanted recreate his own in the contemplation
of another beauty more than natural, it also would find it Due to the hands of man would cross
his mind to fire the hill where he was chopping Juliobriga, lightning piercing mountains, and
along with it its plume of smoke bounces and disappears into the valleys, divisaría on the
beach end of your trip, Santander. My eyes still have one by one main palaces and houses, and towering
over all, of God, the Cathedral. Well to be many and large these wonders you saw may be even
more and bigger. Good chance you have it now, because the observatory is less far away than
Tablanca, and I gladly offered me to serve you guide.

I appreciated the invitation to the soul, but I excused myself to accept, based on the promise
made my uncle back home the next day, and in the professional duties of my companion, which obliged
him not to depart for a long time his party. Strictly speaking, I felt I was very little temptation
of what is offered me, because my body was not made henna to macerated again with no other
stimulant stronger than seeing a somewhat more extensive that he had seen.

- As you like - I answered the obliging gentleman - and what more pleasing and comfortable it is.

Speaking
of the way we had been there from Tablanca could not be omitted from the the home of Gomez de
Pomar, nor the meeting with one of them in the village above. This whole story very great attention
paid to our host, but without saying a word for neither after him.

All impressions exploded in a gesture and a gesture in showing through, flashing, disgust and
pity.

The desktop had lasted nearly two hours, as we pointed out the gentleman judging we would like to
rest, and as this was the truth, but we were well entertained his hand, God ended the conversation,
our respective bedrooms condújonos encerréme and I in mine, staring
at the bed, old-fashioned way, but clean and well padded, as the most
seductive temptation many felt since I left at dawn Tablanca that day.

I fell into bed like a log down, doubtful, in the twilight of my drowsiness, among If I tear
down the losses of my tiring day all day, or the weight of the heap of "things" that I had
eaten in the sleepy brain solariego the inexhaustible erudition. Celtíberos, Agrippa, legionnaires,
Augusto, Cantabria, Goths, Mohammedans, Guadalete, Covadonga Don
Pelayo, the Crusades, Sotos-Cueva, resplendent landscapes, bloody
fields of battle, steep cliffs, black and roaring abysses, the Cantabrian
war dances in the light of the moon, the laments for the dead ...
all this time and moved in rechispeaba darkness of my head, and the
discordant sound of their noise and the weight of his fierce shock,
I fell asleep.

But he kept the dance of the issue for giving me visions of my dream
delusions.

That seemed the end of the world of Roman legions tumbling down the slopes of the mountains,
bodies of African armies swollen gorges de Covadonga and drowning in their own blood that ran through
the dark background of all the canyons, then fled terrified of the fierce persecution of Montagnards,
another mass of survivors Mohammedans, Peak climbing up from the
howling of the storm, to go to the falling down to the opposite side
and get turned into piles of corpses with red water Deva, to disappear
into the fierce waves of the stormy Bay of Biscay, which also helped
the Christians against the Moors.

Eagles and vultures hovering over those butchers appalling ripping itself peaks own exterminator
to consummate the work of mesnaderos brave of Mr. Goths Cantabria
caves endless, dark, huge dens, cold and slimy, full of Moors and
Romans, butchered and stinking; inextricable forests in which they
lost the trail and breathing, rock chops over unfathomable depths,
groans screams of agony from lawless freedom, valleys flooded with
light laughing, dancing, singing and games in their pastures pompous,
and peace and abundance in rustic home, then the black cloud filled
with lightning and hail, going about it blown by the breath of men
bad, destroying everything, making the fields fertile and sterile
bartering in hatred and war relentless and continuous love and peace
that prevailed among its inhabitants before.

And all this, in the battlefields, in the ravines, on steep slopes, everywhere which was clear,
or Roman, or people enemies of the Christian faith or of nations freedoms common or calm or
the dictates of justice, saw, fast as lightning, fierce as a lion, a long, lean man, riding in
a hack of low stature, without a helmet or armor, bareheaded and bathed in light, wild hair and
beard bristling, entering through the thickest of the fray, the spear enristrada .. What say lance!
a pillar two points, and disrupting enemy and throwing them into
the air, such as straw with the fork; After flying, rather than jumping
on the earth, the woods, and fighting tirelessly invincible even with
the heavy clouds of lightning and hail and the bad men pushed against
the holy liberty of the people and the sacred privileges of justice.

And the indefatigable and unconquerable man, strange to say ... which was the manor house was
I spent the night.

All it took me a nightmare, without a moment's rest, and I can tell, because when I woke up with
the strength of emotion that I was the last "pitchforks" of Knight, directed against one of the
bad men who pushed the black cloud, and proved to be a person of Madrid whom I knew a lot
of view and fame, saw the light entering the fourth part of the my bedroom window was left half-closed
to bed. Then jumped the finish bed awake and thereby appease the restless spirit, and looked at the
quadroon ajar. Another surprise! In the immediate fencing was the rough dress Mansion anchors
and sandals, reaping more and more a shoot appeared dotted velvet brightly, and behind him
was another mower that however often the "windrows" in "'the strip of lawn that belonged to it,
I could not bite the sabots. With such drive and such ease "pulling" the ancestral Dallas. For
the "Colombia" that was lying now and the time marked my hourglass, a little after seven o'clock,
I assumed that he had begun the task to dawning.

In this knocked on the door of my room Neluco was going to wake up, because it was a long way
we waited and we should take advantage of the morning every effort to tread it. Entered, and while
I aviaba, I told him in detail what the dream, after having taught from the ancestral paneled
on the prairie. He was interested in the story of my nightmare, but not the least surprised
to see the gentleman mowing, and so early, because he was well known and knew early in the morning than
the sun.

An hour later we ate breakfast in the dining room ancestral company, not so smart and at night
but neat and clean and much better dressed than when mowing. Remembered there be our mid-morning
departure at the latest, and to make good use of limited time we had available until then, was shortened
after dinner and took us to the obsequious host Neluco together, a good utility that dominated
the valley, on which gave me new curious reports and concluded by advising me not to do if hydrologists
holding The springs are leaks from Híjar Ebro, because he had estimated levels of both rivers,
and was much higher than that of the first than the second, not counting with the waters of
both are of different color.

Then I talked about the tower that looked good from there, and so on she said, to agree in whole
or in large part to many other similar Mountain, deserves the honors not be forgotten. The building
has been uninhabited since the fifteenth century, and dilapidated, therefore, particularly on the
inside, why me 'explained' the ancestral from outside and follows, word or less:

- The willingness to have their floors (low, cellar and salting of meat, the main it seems was
receiving and banquet hall, and the last two which communicate via
traps at the end of each step) shows that the domestic or the masters
were wary.

In The top floor windows are tall and decorated with stone seats on either side, that would serve the
Castilian and daughters or servants to engage in sex work. Repair you do not have slots, but an
extension of the parapet wall or, at higher altitudes The roof, whose water flows to the outside
by stone gargoyles. And if this parapet served to offend those who attempted to undermine the
foundations of the tower, the provision of ferrada door, you see, not the means but on one side
of the facade of the West, to believe that flanked the entrance through a balcony ledge, stone battlements
or loopholes, located in the center and the height of the first floor, where now the window
is square, poorly accommodated to the output arc is kept inside, and there in the other two
fronts, warheads fitted windows or clubs, while the North has only the loopholes or loopholes
of all ... See you on the door a small shield, is perhaps the only one preserves the primitive
were used, because it has no crest or helmet, and on the fringe of two rivers, crudely designed,
they are weapons and military trophies, even more confusing, some taken by unknown letters,
and others are heads of snakes crave when it was they who were not
familiar with catapults, scorpions and lumps used as machines offensive
before the invention of gunpowder, or the boiler and banner, emblem
of the rich-men or leaders of retinue.

These signals and the certainty that in Spain not included weapons lineage to the late twelfth
century, and soon after pointed architecture was introduced that note on the door and fenestration
of the tower construction set me early XIII century, perhaps by the same man whose castle rocker
just below here was overthrown in a rebellion penalty which at that time used to promote home
Lara, widespread in many branches of this valley and the immediate, and repressed with a strong
hand by King Fernando, as her granddaughter Isabella of Castile died
in the camps this tower and others noted.
