 

Among these were two chiefs called Urban Garnica and Pedro de Santa Maria, who have for your
pleasure many concubines, had a very bad area in that country take Christ our Lord and his holy
law, which they had to see the country are compelled to abandon or to leave the mire of dishonesty.
Therefore, the enemy moved these infernal and more of the love of the flesh, began to spread
by the vulgar thousand calumnies against missionaries, and those much better for them was believed
the people, saying they were spies enemies, they did not intend to subject to anything other than
the Spanish, and under the pretext to reduce them to the Catholic faith, depriving them of
their ancient liberty, which would soon be hungry and desirous of those pleasures that now quench his
taste, would see their lean meat, behind black and blue from the blows of the new masters, whose
yoke loaded on their necks, along with that of Christ, and proof of that, they still had scars
on the body of strokes that led cruelísimos when Christians, even working day and night without any
compassion, to fill the bags at his expense of their masters, and similar to these other countless
lies told, as I came to tell her to pretend to try. They did not say the air, because now
I want the barbarians had become Christians was in its first fervor, they did much of a dent in
these sayings, however, cold in a little that first fervor, the rebels got their attempt to
stir up the country and angering the people to cast them to the parents and refer them to where
they came.

Already entered the year 1691, left the PP. Juan Bautista de Zea and Diego Centeno by the river
Guapay, to cultivate the new people of the Presentation, and P. Arce to the Salinas Valley,
where he went to great number of infidels, of which many fans and showed him others show him
bad face, sign of things to plotting in his heart, which was to kill him, as to not having been
performed so deterred from evil intent Tarichea Indians.

Apostolic Father sought here is to put things in the recent church but demon, blowing in the heart
of the apostates, the good Father worked in many weeks, which crumbled in a few hours, and
on the appendix to these disasters, he heard that Tobas, cruelísimos enemies of God and the
Spanish, having regard to their attempts, were as weapons, and many came destroying the country,
thus, waiting time on time its fury, they worked with great encouragement to receive death if
God Our Lord, in imitation of his subjects, who ran fame that had fallen into the hands of
those killed to evil and cruelty equal to their ferocity.

But as Our Lord with this misfortune, his servant did not want anything but the first tests and
novitiate of an apostolic life, he soon fade away those fears and there then notice that the PP. Zea
and Rye had come to rescue the people of the Presentation and that the Toba had retired to their lands,
which could certainly happen to Tarichea more haste to dispose the
minds of the people to embrace the holy faith.

Here he was received and hosted with love and benevolence of the local lord, who understood
the cause of his trip, he charged side take all the settlements of
the contour, they came together appointed day all the chiefs to council,
to resolve the business of conversion, and executed and the last day
of July, dedicated to our great Father and Patriarch Ignatius.

And why will the taste of the readers know the ceremonies and how they used in their assembly, give
them a brief and succinct news.

He entered parliament in the dead of night, were beginning to function with a symphony flutes
and fifes, and singing and dancing to the business they reasoned, concluding Each dance lasted
three or four faiths with toast.

At daybreak, although it was very cold wind that chilled, for being here this month heart winter,
they all went to bathe in the river, and to brighten up the party, adorned their heads shaved
tufts beautiful face very ugly color, imagining growing in beauty and beauty, when they seemed
so many devils.

Having already cleared up the day, took a breakfast for breath and spirit to continue their
agreement on the way as before. Who thought, or rather, who dared to hope no favorable resolution
in such a council? But despite that, determined by common consent to admit to their lands to Christ and
his holy law, and sent to give notice of its decision to P. Arce,
who under a bower was entrusted to our Lord with fervor this business,
but they put three conditions: First, that the reduction is based
on that place.

The second, which were not required to be banished from their land who would like to live in the
Gentiles, or to keep many women to use, and the third finally their children were not intended
to serve the Church.

The holy man accepted the party, waiting for the weather, and much more will the blood of Jesus
Christ I would soften the hearts and blessing those fruits of his zeal and his labors promised
them, or were ill-founded hopes for Taricú, paramount, on behalf
of all, thanked him for wanting to be used for the benefit of their
souls, and also gave to Our Lord because he had deigned to send him
no interest to teach them the way to heaven.

And because all this happened, as I said, the day consecrated to NPS Ignacio, tagged P. Reduction
Arce under his sponsorship.

While things are here with a favorable wind, I must give a brief relationship
of the province of Chiquitos, which was founded at the same time,
although so happier, a new Christendom, and will be the main target
of this my relationship.

CHAPTER II.

Location of the province of Chiquitos, customs and qualities of the natives.

The province, whom commonly call the Chiquitos, is an area of ??land of two hundred hundred miles
long and wide, on the west looks to Santa Cruz de la Sierra, and more away to the missions
of the Moxos, which belong to our province of Peru. By Levante down to the famous Lake Xarayes,
whom he rightly called the first sea Dulce conquerors, because of
its size and grandeur.

Tramontana closes by a large Chain mountains rather long, which ran from the east to west, ending
in the lake. For Chaco looks to the south and to a large lake, or rather, Gulf of the Paraguay
River, which here is a beautiful bay, whose shores are populated by a large variety of trees
and called from its inception this cove or harbor within the Itatines.

To bathe the province of Chiquitos two rivers, one the Guapay, who born in the mountains of
Chuquisaca down on an open plain beside a village in the Chiriguaná called ABAP and running towards
the East, encloses them lengthwise into half-moon, to Santa Cruz de la Sierra; and pulling
here between Normans and the West, water and bathe the plains that are at the foot by both parties,
and finally empties into the Mamore gap in the coast of which are founded some peoples, and Christians
of Moxos. The other, the tools or San Miguel, born in the Alps Peru, and going through the Chiriguanos
(on whose land changes its name into that of Parapity) is eventually lost in a very dense forest,
the many twists and turns until about Santa Cruz la Vieja, which
was founded last year Reduction St. Joseph, and turning between Normans
and west, bathing the San Francisco Xavier reductions and Conception
where straight strip at noon, and receiving in his mother's many streams
contour Reductions passes Baur, who belong to the missions of the
Moxos, and hence will to flow into the Mamore, and this in the great
river of the Maranon, or Amazon.

The country, for the most part is mountainous and populated by very dense forests, very abundant
honey and wax for the great multitude of bees of various species, among which is a Opemús breed
called the most similar to those of Europe, whose honey is odoriferous and fragrant and its
wax-white, although a little soft. Also abound in many monkeys, roosters, turtles, elk, deer,
mountain goats and snakes and vipers of strange poisons, because there are some that bite swell
after the bodies of patients and blood drip for all her limbs, eyes, ears, mouth, nose and even
nails, but the suffering, as check for so many parts that foul humor, does not die. Others
there whose venom (although they bitten on the toe) is up to the point at the head, removing
and depriving forces trial, and hence spreading into the veins inevitably
kill, causing delirium, and so far they have not been able to find
effective relief.

The soil of yours is dry, but in the rainy season, which lasts from December to May, so deformed
drowns the campaign, which closes the trade and are many rivers and
large lakes, which abound in many kinds of fish, which fish with some
pasta that stunned bitter come to the surface of the water.

After the winter dry plains and then to plant it is necessary to remove large working forests
and cultivate the hills and mountain peaks that yield very good corn or Indian wheat, rice,
cotton, sugar, snuff and other fruits typical of the country, as
bananas, pineapples, peanuts, pumpkins (which is a kind of squash,
better and tastier than those in Europe), the grain, however, and
the vita, you can not take on these lands.

The climate is warm and intemperate, apoplectic cause of many accidents and frequent infections
they usually do great in natural curls, because these barbarians do not know how to apply,
but two remedies. The first is sucking sick bodies, trade their own chiefs and captains in their language
called Iriabós, which in this office are a lot of room between natural, all too gain, because
instead of cooking the chicken and other delicious viands for ill, it eats all the sucking, and sick
but do not give ordinary lunch box a handful of corn rather undercooked, and if you do not
want to eat, do not give much care, happy patient's response: why should I eat if I have won?
So I have to me The more die from necessity rather than diseases, which are not related to other aforesaid
doctor to show the painful and tell you where they've gone on record: this passes on to consider
whether the patient has poured chicha (a drink something like beer) it has thrown to the dogs a piece
of turtle meat, deer or other living; and if he is guilty of this crime, said that the souls
of these animals, to avenge his injury he has entered the body, and torments him to measure
his reproach. Where is that give any relief against the suck, or in the soil also give strong
blows to the baton around the patient to scare and drive away her soul. This remains the suffering
as before, if not perhaps happen by chance that heal naturally.

Hase observed in these doctors after receiving Holy Baptism, as much as they can not throw a dirty
and smelly subject as they once did every time suck a member of the patient, giving the devil
for careless in maintaining the implied covenant that they had, because
explicit and some had none.

The other remedy is very cruel and barbaric own, and it was killing women who are persuaded
were the cause of the disease (may be his biggest that they had some light by a woman had entered
the world of death) and throwing them out of this world, be they free thought Tribute to death.
So touting the doctor to tell them what a woman had given them that disease in your body, and
he said it was this or that it is first offered or with whom he had some anger, or their husband
or relatives and taking one to the miserable removed fists and truncheons to life. And still did
not realize the deception, even seeing from experience that did not use anything to escape
death this recipe. It comes from a foolish imagination that diseases are from extrinsic causes
not the interior alteration of moods because they are not able to come to penetrate understanding
is not enough to where the coarseness of the physical senses (owned by all West Indians),
or that are otherwise awake and working for others. And seeing that the Missionaries purges and
cured with salt, did not fully persuaded that the blood and other fluids that feed the bottom
of the man could be corrupted and cause evil effects and bad impressions even in the soul, for
this, for the slightest indisposition they wanted to bleed, and asking his arm, he replied that
not, but their share hurt, had to be bleeding, and experimenting with these remedies improvement
were hand to the old doctors scoffed at his fraud and deceit and cruelty that had execrating
used against women.

They are lively and fiery temperament than the ordinary in these nations, good understanding,
lovers of good, nothing inconsistent or inclined to evil, and so tight to the dictates of
natural reason, and they are among those vices and blemishes sensual meat at every step they look and
cry in other countries and converted Gentiles. His stature is more than the ordinary median,
facial features not unlike ours, although the color is olive, to which is easily distinguished
from Europeans; in the past twenty years, grow their hair, and who has better and larger,
has on a certain beauty other lordly, not breed a beard, but late and low. The the dress, the
men go entirely naked, the women wear a cotton shirt called Type, with long sleeves to the
elbow and arm rest naked chiefs and also the main use of this dress, although a little shorter.
Adorn the neck and legs with many strings of certain balls that seem to the emeralds and rubies
view they are also used to make strings of bells on the most festive days. Horádanse the ears
and lower lip, which hang feathers of many colors, and bring it pending a piece of tin are
also a beautiful waist belt very showy feathers for diversity and proportion of colors. They are
spirits brave, and wise warrior personally for the handling of weapons, one of which is the
arrow, which are brave and skillful, and to test and sign of his skill, they bring many queues hanging
animals and feathers of birds have been hunted, another of his weapons is the baton or mace,
which is a very hard and heavy wood in the form of blades, that is played in Europe at the
ball one that is longer in the middle is thick and acute side to the sword fight closely.

They
have no government or civil life, but for their decisions and continue to hear the views of
the oldest. The dignity of chieftain succession does not give, but by merit and value in war
and take prisoners to assault enemies whom no other reason than by
taking away a piece of iron or to attain fame and name of brave in
war.

Totally opposite of genius, neighboring nations are peaceful and quiet living in their ends and
for that I fear and dread is the militia of the Chiquitos, which,
after to make them slaves of war as if they are blood relatives, or
close friends, the married many times with his own daughters, even
his marriage can not be called such, because it is indissoluble individuals
can not marry but one wife, well they can throw to home when they
want and take another.

Only the chiefs take two three women, and women, although they are sisters, who do not have
another job to cook the chicha, running on behalf of husbands to receive and host to strangers
and serve with this drink made of maize, cassava and other fruits, the color is given a chocolate
air and the effect is very similar to wine.

The ceremony used in their weddings is as follows: No parent will give his daughter to husband
if it has not done before a feat, which is why you want to get married, before he goes hunting
and killed many animals can turn around a hundred hares, and without saying a word puts them
at the door of the woman who is in love, and the quality and quantity of hunting, relatives judge
whether he deserves for his wife.

The education of their children is at all according to his barbarous coarseness, leaving them
to live without fear or respect for the family, made themselves masters of releasing the reins
they run to where the dissolution and youthful fervor drag the years.

Few live together as a republic without a head, each one is master of himself, and for any
deviate slightly dislike each other.

The houses are nothing more than thatched huts in forest, side by side without any order or distinction,
and the door is so low that you can only get on all fours, because
it The Spanish give the name of Chiquitos, and they do not give another
reason for having thus houses but they do get rid of anger and annoyance
that cause the flies and mosquitoes oddly that the country is abundant
in the rainy season, and because their enemies do not have where arrows
night, which would be inevitable if the door was great, outside it
does not have another outfit to a mat rather weak that the slightest
breath of air drops.

The free and single, that after fourteen years longer live with their parents, live all together
in a house, which is nothing but an outdoor arbor everywhere, which also serves in time of your visits
and compliments, to receive and accommodate the Foreigners who come from elsewhere, to whom they
give the best of the country and that his cherished drink, and go all the people to celebrate
and participate, along with outsiders, refreshment, but before you
conjure up the devil to come not to disturb the joy of the feast;
the ceremony is to leave some of them from the hut and, with loud
exclamations, hit the ground with clubs.

Their feasts and banquets usually last two or three days and nights, putting the most magnificent
and splendor in the copy and strength of this wine, whose fumes to the point they were up to the
head and deprive them of that little trial and had sex before, so their parties and joy end in fights,
injuries and deaths, because the bitterness and hatred stored and concealed or long hidden in the
most secret heart of cowardice and fear, and come spring out at these times and come to blows
with fury.

After the stranger, in gratitude, the invite and lead to their villages, corresponding with the
same treatment, enforcement and barbaric courtesy, and these are all his wanderings and pilgrimages.
Well if they are not strangers to whom celebrate and feast, are very common together treats to drink
chicha, and this has been the unique and mild impairment that is found in political life, and
reduced through Holy Baptism into the bosom of the Church, being
very true and real thing that individual move docentur in fide, nisi
ab eis removeatur ebrietas that them and other nations of the Indies
wrote the most learned and wise Bishop the illustrious Don Alonso
de la Peña Montenegro [IV.].

So our missionaries put any effort from the beginning and start to exterminate this vice, and together
those feasts and banquets, used in many media, and soft and severe, to break the pitchers, rebuke,
spill and break their brutal chicha together, which provoked them to anger and vengeance to those
barbarians, who were furious and so exasperated, often angrily threw his hand to the clubs and
arrows to to kill them.

Our Lord, finally, rewarding their industries and holy zeal, banishing and starting the hearts of
those barbaric habit so entrenched by the sweat and under (as consistent opinion among us)
of P. Antonio Fideli, Italian, who was the first who died in the apostolic company, in March of
1702, consumed by the hardships and suffered jobs in cultivating this new vineyard of the Lord.

After
his death all these people left the drunkenness and other barbarous customs, indeed moving the
hand of the Almighty, because even among Christians is more cultured
every day that given to drunkenness, we need a miracle of divine grace
you leave, then how much more would be needed for these barbarians
who had nursed with milk?

Distribution and time distribution is as follows: At the break of dawn breakfast, together and play
some instruments of music, similar to the flutes, until dry the dew, that are saved as harmful
to health, hence go to work, cultivating the earth with wooden sticks,
as hard, which makes up the shortage of steel plows or hoes; work
until noon, and then returned to eat.
