 That today! ... Tomorrow! ... Ever, it seems! Instead of
the federal sighed, a king, a tyrant of fixed and maybe a stranger! For these Factory reasons
became pessimistic and announced policy and hoped that the Government "Judas takes him." Two
things especially altered the bile of the cigarette, the increase Carlist party and attacks on
the Virgin and the Saints. In spite of the charge "Throw against God" launched by the peasant
to the citizens, the truth is that, with very few exceptions, all cigarette demonstrating consistent
and unanimous in ailments of devotion. She would be more or less enlightened, but there were
many and fervent piety. It is true that on the altar of bad taste, existing in each workshop Doric
deposit the operatives their shawls, their umbrellas, the mezzanine of the food, but this kind of
lack of familiarity did not reveal respect, but the same habit of seeing there the holy altar,
to which no one went without crossing himself and genuflect. And is it curious that as the revolution
unfolded and Factory republicanism grew, aumentáronse also religious practices. The brush
placed beside the altar, where the days of collecting alms each casting machine operator, never looked
so full of copper coins, the box containing the light wax was packed with torches and candles
lit candles over sixty ninth day of the altarpiece; first cigarette they would not have to drink
water, oil lamp that lit daily to their favorite images, an Our Lady of Mercy twice the size of
the captives kneeling at his feet, a San Antón with sackcloth very ornate gold mat, a Child-God skirts
blue holes and a little world in his hands. Never was more brilliance the ninth of San José, all
while working prayed, turning towards the altar to say the acts of faith and the litany, and
bawling on the last day the joys with much unction, tuning but not enough. Never place both the collection
for the Holy Burial Procession and ninth of Sorrows, and finally, on any occasion was the
god protector of the factory Virgen del Amparo, many offers, worship and charity, but its been
forgotten why rival Our Lady of the Guard, star of the seas, the patron saint of sailors by untamed
coast.

Granera well have in half a dozen strong spirits, capable of swearing and talking unabashedly
religious things, but dominated by the majority, did not dare loosen
the tongue.

At most were allowed to curse of the priests, accusing them of immoral and greedy, or deny that
"metiesen in politics" and take up arms to bring the "escurantismo and the Inquisition ' most
momentous and profound questions not stirred, and if anyone dared so much, is sure to fall over
a flood of jokes and insults.

- Is the world lost! - The teacher said Amparo party, middle-aged
woman of sad eyes, dressed in mourning ever since I had seen die of
smallpox two gallant children who were his pride -.

This world is rough, girls!