 If you know
where the book came to light that you have in your hand, you will become responsible for the situation
of the writer; and so supliréis here cercenaréis there, in part descifraréis an obscure word,
in another will understand a circumlocution; on this page will appreciate the true value of
a protest, a praise, a restriction, in that adivinaréis the target of a confession, of a censure,
señalaréis or the true meaning to a proposition too bold.

Few men overlap completely at the surrounding circumstances: few are those that face a great danger
for the mere sake of truth, few people in critical situations do not seek a compromise between their interests
and conscience. In traversing very serious risks, staying faithful
to virtue is heroism, and heroism is a rare thing.

You can not always be said to have been wrong a writer, having been tempered to circumstances,
if it has not violated the rights of justice and truth. Cases there in that silence is prudent
and even mandatory and therefore, it can be forgiven to a writer who has not said what he thought,
provided it did not say anything against I thought. For them to be deepest convictions about
the power Bellarmine indirect, "You would have demanded of him, which was expressed in Paris
in the same manner as in Rome? This would have meant to say, "Speak so that as soon as Parliament
has news of your work, specimens are collected at gunpoint, burned
perhaps one of them by the hand of the executioner, and you expelled
from France or locked in a dungeon.

"

Knowledge of the particular position of the writer, his conduct, morality, character, and even
their education, illustrate much the reader of his works. To be considered by the Luther's words
on celibacy, will not a little to know that the speaker is a friar apostate, married to Catherine
of Borei, and who have been patient enough to blush impudent thousand
times flipping through confessions of Rousseau, will be very little
available to illusions, when the philosopher of Geneva will discuss
philanthropy and moral.

RULE 7 th.

The posthumous works published by hands unknown or unsafe, are suspected
of apocryphal or altered.

The authority of the illustrious deceased little use in such cases: it is he who speaks, but the
editor, pretty sure that the person can not deny.

RULE 8 th.

Stories based on secret reports and unpublished papers, manuscripts
publications the editor claims to have done more to enter orders,
shaping phrases, or clarify some passages do not deserve more credit
than due to whom responsibility for the work out.

RULE 9 ª.

Hidden relations negotiations, state secrets, anecdotes about life spicy Private celebrities
on dark intrigues, and other matters of this kind have be received with extreme suspicion.

If we can hardly clarify the truth of what happens to sunlight, and to the face of the universe,
we promise little regard to what happens in the shadows of the night and into the bowels land.

RULE
10 th.

In the case of old people or very remote, it should give little credence to all that we concerns
on the country's wealth, family size, the treasures of kings, religious ideas, and domestic
habits.

The reason is clear: all these points are hard to find, it takes a long time residence, perfect
knowledge of the language, intelligence branches of his very difficult
and complicated means of acquiring exact information about hidden
objects that provide for exaggeration and that by the natives themselves
are sometimes a lot of ignorance, and to knowingly have thousands
and thousands of reasons to increase or decrease. Finally, in what
ways to play home, no exact knowledge reaches, if you can not penetrate
into the interior of families, seeing them as they speak and act in
the effusion and freedom from their homes [11].

CHAPTER XII.

GENERAL
CONSIDERATIONS ON THE WAY TO KNOW THE NATURE, PROPERTIES AND RELATIONS
OF LIVING