 They saw the scene and many of
the main towns, filled with one and the other actors ostentatiously dressed ladies and gentlemen
and very decorated. Lituca know already, my advice, find the perspective of looking at those
pictures made by the funnel with one hand, and looking so that Inside, was amazed and cried most
extreme exclamations. I knew this theater and the drama, and had seen my taste the reality
of the painting that both he enthused. Declaréselo, asombróse of me as the picture, and I hastened
to refer the the argument that well remembered details of its climactic scenes and scenery more
cumbersome, and, finally, I gave an idea of ??the role they did in the role of spectators, Ladies'
Luxury ... and the follies of men presumed, particularly the "good boys." Admiróse her a few things,
she laughed and I said other, finally responding to my question, to see everything without being
seen by anyone as you like, but be in it and be visible to all, although the reel. She remembered
having said something, time did (and it was true). Taking walk from here, I continued exploring
the quality and size ambitions of women, and from painting to painting and of course in course,
I ended up at that in response to another question of mine, told me:

- Well in all truth of my soul, and God will punish me if I lie, as
desires, women's own desires that girl, come on, what I would call,
made to order, concerning this particular, is a life like I have now.

To which I replied to ask this, but recently, it was impossible to
ask, and had to wear, to the point we were trying, in the reality
of things.

- Time does not stop - I added - and destroy little by
little, that lives in it.

Under this precondition, one day (and God far away) that until your mother disappears from the
living. This is the fatal law of human events.

In anticipation of it, or because they send another law that governs the impulses of the human
heart ... and of women at some stage of life, for example, which do you now want a support
to those who get close, a company in which to live, to replace those who will fail us necessarily,
the spark that morning stoke the fire to be extinguished at home and restore sacred warmth.
In a word, Lita: you have to think, to think even in marriage. Well say, and you will pardon
the frankness that it is raining you and that you pretenders of many conditions and many parts,
that is the humble farmer's tribute their poverty excused with the wrapper of his honest intentions,
that sought hidalguete of leak, the kind with the blanket so tight resources to their needs,
if you pull on it to cover his neck, left foot bare, and rugged rancher that cover most vanity sweating
heavily the bread offered to you calloused hand clumsy word ... and sweating, and the little
lawyer a few lawsuits and the blanket the hidalguete, and so, by this scale up, until the character
that brings in the world where he comes from, with all the temptations of luxury and splendor,
come on with life make the most haughty matrons of the theater that you just see it painted in
that book. Frankly, Lita, which of these claimants would you choose?

During the first part of this, my reasoning, the poor girl did not know where to put the view,
and even pinched some clothes, then and looked at me with wide eyes and smiling mouth, and only
answer to the question that started as a line to add, under the list of alleged suitors, gave
a laugh of the most spontaneous and heartfelt.

- What are you laughing? - Ask, pretending to be a bit resentful.