 There
is in the same novena one CONSIDERATION FOR THIS WONDERFUL and that to achieve the amendment
of our lives, in full view of the favor that were supported Jesus, Mary and Joseph as devotee
finished yet so sinful, it was necessary to imitate in his oft-repeated invocation all the days of
evil, "Jesus, Mary and Joseph." (P. 10). The man had no other merit, nor is it advisable to
have one, just say the magic invocation and to act as he wants in security free from punishment.
What a great encouragement to the crime!

Another notable case

Another notable case of the effects of the invocation is a Dominican friar Fray Juan Masias who,
for over twelve years, being in his dark cell, in prayer, it came to him many demons and dragged
him and treating him badly pounded word and work, but that he was free from them saying: "Jesus
the Savior, Mary and Joseph are with me." Other demons were sometimes much crowd and noise
and taking him by the feet he drew dragging the bedroom to the cloister, a slap and beat him,
others stepped on his stomach and head, others scratched his face and threw out his eyes, but
invoking the names Jesus, Mary and Joseph, came and left him. "(p. 14.) The most admirable is
that the monk had suffered the invocation after the abuses mentioned, so I had the condescension
to allow the demons for some time to have fun at his expense.

Economic Fun

At the same monk, "at other times of prayer going to church, demons caught him and pulled her,
and threw him into the air so high, passing over the roof of the hall Chapter House, which
divides the first cloister of the second, coming this fall. There he waited other demons and
receiving, throwing him again in the same way, giving to him again in the main cloister not
get a word of anger or suffering until invoking the sacred name of Jesus, Mary and Joseph, let
him. "(p. 15). Who, reading this, do not envy the friar as entertaining as a fun and economy?
And why not hell be grateful to receive it in the other yard, instead of letting it crashed
into the ground?

After relating the wonders mentioned others, read in the ninth the
following considerations: "What costs us accustomed work to repeat
our prayers the sweet names of Jesus, Mary and Joseph?

"(p. 27.)

Infernal power

Each step is amplified, magnified in these novenas infernal power.
Not only puts the Devil among the enemies of the soul, with our own
body and humanity, but which always tremble with their wiles, we consider
weak to resist and even seem to fear that God himself does not know
how to defend the devil, because at every step fuel is God and put
it on guard against the power of hell