 You're not as creature you do not know what is
love, and manages to discover on your chest. Is not spirited, beautiful, brave, clean and discreet
D. Jaime? Is not it free? Do not you love? Are you not love tests, determined, as it is and
how I said, to marry you? Is not it a well-bred gentleman and honest? Well then what all these
subtle quintessence and tangles that will rack their brains? Say yes, love him; marry him and
see how happy you are. Gives hope at least you love, unless you want yes give full and round from
the beginning. With these hopes, he promises, not go to Madrid and stay in Villafría. Search
for a plausible excuse not to go. Say that is left to buy fifteen olive aranzadas that border
his own, and for the purchase of is already in treatment.

- What would you advise me is vulgar and forgive my crudeness of expression: it is ugly. I must not
give hope one thing that I did not secure. And if I'm already sure of it, is ridiculous artifice
hide it and give hope, and to discover little by little my heart. D. If you do not love Jaime,
I do not fool with uncertain hopes. Preténdame it and try to conquer my will and give up, though
I encourage you with hope. And if I love him, I must be frank and tell then, because I love him.
Although low estimate to give themselves so easily and so quickly, I give that yes.

- I'm all in your mind. Dale that yes, you heard from your mouth and be the happiest of fatal.

-
When?

And what luck? No: do not say anything. I have shame. Shut up, shut up by piety. To go away
and leave me alone in my retirement.

- Come, woman, do not be unreasonable. How did you go unanswered, after step taken?

- And what answer, if I do not know what to say?

Do not you think you will not regret it I say yes? Do you think he really loves me, yet the essence
of his life as I need to be loved, as I would love if you love me?

- Well if you believe.

His words instill the belief in understanding more inclined to doubt. Listen to him, and you'll
be convinced.

I dare to say it. By God, Light, do not be angry. No I managed to resist their entreaties.
I brought in my company. Is waiting on the block high. I'll call flight.

Before Dona Luz consents, her friend, light as a deer, had gone in search of deputy brigadier.

Luz did not know what was wrong. Was greatest disquietude.

It was the first time they would see alone with a young lover, in that chaste retreat, where
he had lived through the most florid years of his youth. All the vague dreams of love, all
the sweet words, all Gifts soul suddenly offered his fantasy, not encrypted in a ideal and air imaginary
creation, but applied and dedicated to the love of a real person
and full of life whose excellent qualities are pleased to recognize
and whose affection for her flattered her pride.

The sad shadow of P. Henry crossed his mind, sadly. She looked the image of Christ died and it
seemed that resembled P. Enrique. It was clear day. The sun came the window, and yet felt a
tremor when looking at Christ. Abruptly came to him and covered him with the other box.

As if to himself all looked so gloomy picture in the mirror. It was beautiful, graceful, all
freshness, youth and elegance, and found natural, almost forced,
to D. Jaime loved her.

Then he thought back to the P. Enrique, but otherwise.

The same love of it to D. Jaime clarify what in their inclination to the Father could have
led to dubious of interpretations. This drove her to believe and
feel in love with D. Jaime.

Loving D. Jaime disappear in their eyes all that she would have been
unusual about his friendship with missionary.

How ridiculous glimpse of those relationships had thought sometimes disappear already, and
everything is explained.

This train of thought went in an instant for the soul of Dona Luz.

A moment no more was all it took D. James to appear at the parlor door was left Dona Manolita
open.

He had no D. Jaime speak a word to get permission to enter the parlor. She I waited, she saw him
coming and he received no compliments or ceremony.

Doña Manolita stood outside and D. Jaime went in alone.

Where Dona Luz came abruptly stood, knelt on the ground both knees,
and said accent moved:

- I know V. V depends my happiness and my
unhappiness.

Here I await my sentence.

All neater speech would have been absurd in that time, all art vain every precaution shocking.

The
parlor door was left wide and D. Jaime was kneeling at the feet Dona Luz. It seems that had
just delivered to discretion, for his part was said, and that she played just talk and impose
conditions.

Dona Luz pride strongly felt flattered.

One dandy, that brave man of future and career, was there prostrate before her beauty, without
spring for both performance than the sudden and passionate love she
had known how to inspire.

Luz silent: he failed to say a word, but in his face, which did not
fit the dissimulation and which reflected all his feelings, he painted
the joy, excitement affectionate and the pleasant surprise.

As the snow may stop and arrest the same pay more verve to the germ
under spring, which suddenly appears and gives account of himself
covering trees vegetables and fields of flowers and the longing for
love and all the impassioned of the virgin heart our heroine awoke
suddenly, hitherto suppressed by prudence, and as asleep until twenty-eight.

Luz felt his spirit born in the spring of life, he heard birds singing, saw, such as magic mirror,
paradise, smelled the heady perfume hadadas roses and thought they were spreading the heat within
it soft and golden light of a ideal sun, illuminating and vivifying
a beautiful world, newly created and hidden in his soul.

Rich feared after creating it lasted, which dissipates as if dreamed,
and exclaimed at the end with rare candor:

- V. No cheating on me?

Is it true? V. " love me?

- With all my heart - answered D. Jaime taking the beautiful hand of Doña Luz and affixing her
a kiss.

- Do not be V. crazy.

Get V. - "Dona Luz, gently removing his hand from Don Jaime.

- I will not rise - he said - until you know if I belong.

- D. Jaime, by God, what would you have I tell him?

I do not know if I love V, but if the content I believe because the loved and the fear of losing
this belief are symptoms of love, I think I love him.

Luz blushed as never to utter such words, and D. Jaime got up showing
in his face gratitude and joy that the confession of Dona Luz caused
him.

Then he said:

- Dispose V. all fear, and holds the belief that love always, and my love V. be compared only with
deep respect and admiration V. deserves.

At that point the explanations, and going by road is so plain, everything was tacitly concluded
in that interview, which lasted very little.

Luz was troubled and confused, but the severe majesty of his face
and gestures would content to the boldest lover.

Don Jaime was felt loved, or even with another kiss on the hand of
Dona Luz dared to express who loved her once, and he was grateful.

In sum, given the mode of being of Dona Luz, and after both sides declared love, not was pending
or tender conversation alone, or delay it was worth. The wedding had to come to escape.

Luz was quite eager to talk calmly and coolly in any other case, and alone, with the man who
almost had to say: I love you, and it was so chaste and pure, frosting
all Desire and killed all hope of obtaining from him a more innocent
early touch or to preempt it without incurring their anger.

Hence the great embarrassment in which they were Dona Luz and her lover barely said they wanted.
Doña Luz, especially, did not know what to do. He felt ashamed of what he said, wanted away from
the gaze of the man, and not resolved to flee, fearing that his escape seemed childish ridiculous
artifice or unbecoming of a woman of twenty years.

Fortunately, Mrs. Manolita instinctively sensed that difficult situation, and delivered it Suddenly
her friend, appearing again in the parlor.

And, later, over lunch, in the midst of the guests, in view of D. Acisclo and Fr Henry, and after
having calmed down and recovered from the first emotion, spoke Dona
Luz D. Jaime with rest, he found ready for anything, and as she had
no father or mother who view, neither he nor I had any, both determined
to marry without noise or unit, and most soon as possible.

In order not to part at once, without anyone miss the prolongation of his stay in that place,
D. Jaime said he had one more week to see if he bought the olive grove was in treatment.

-XV-

First trace of a marriage romance

Is difficult to have anything hidden in a small town. All we know at once, even if the amount
not known.

D. The proposed wedding Jaime and Doña Luz, who knew nothing mattered, no wonder, then, that
news reached the point at all in Villafría.

The arrest of D. Jaime course was attributed to its true motive, and no one tried but excuse
the purchase of the olive.

One case of fulminant and especially love that so improvised consortium, gave much to say, comment
and gossip.

In places in Andalusia, there is nothing awe as much as a sudden wedding. For everything there
is often made with great pause. Nowhere is less acceptable English saying that the time is money. Nowhere
is used more often and in practical life sentence castiza Spanish
and archives to make time, that is, of losing, of expenditure, we
weigh and bored his walk slow and quiet infinity.

But where it is most extreme in Andalusia make time is in dating.

Contributes to this, on the one hand, prudence, recognizing the serious transcendental marriage,
continually counsels us: before you get married, look what you do. It contributes much more, on
the other hand, this look at what you do is great fun; is the best
way to kill or do time, it is a pleasant occupation, who provided
has none, and no sooner run out of her house.

Hence, no doubt, endless engagements of my land, which also are given finest examples of strong
evidence that can record the stories of love.

Dating should begin when the bridegroom is with Dominie learning Latin, passed through humanities,
law or medicine, and do not end in marriage to the groom is a judge of first instance or attending
physician.

During this time, the couple are written when are absent, and when they are in the same town,
are in mass in the morning, they become to see two or three more times during the day, often
stripping the kettle during the siesta, return to be in the afternoon
at the mall, go to the same gatherings from eight to eleven at night
and now, after dinner, they repeat verse and talk through the bars,
and there are nights when are stripping the kettle again, and chewing
iron to dawn in East Aurora of the fingers of pink.

In proof of this true account antequerano boyfriend, who finally had to marry after eight years
of being boyfriend and that he had no sooner married, looked troubled and not knowing what to
do with their time. In another boyfriend, a native of Carcabuey, I have heard also have at WITNESS
ingrained is the idea that marriage requires a lot of calm before take out his future mother,
considering that her daughter had thirteen years of talking with that boyfriend, without reaching
him to ask, and she was going ajando and fading a bit, resolved to ask the groom what brought
intentions. And having armed resolution asked the question, the boyfriend answered very surprised
and disappointed it is not - save me God, lady!

Is this dagger rogue?

Prevail and even private as healthy Villafría doctrines about the longevity of engagements, and
will pay the reader wonder that produce this outburst, that impremeditación that Dona Luz was
decided.

- This is a bullet - said one.

- Come on - said another - everything is well understood: if she claimed he did not think of
marrying, was for lavatories, because he despised the locals, but
just arrived here by a dandy court and fell on him and caught him,
like a spider traps a fly.

The spurned suitors, once carried everything with resignation, assuming The console, which Dona Luz
disdain born of his love for God and heaven, where Dona Luz knew they liked both the land and
another man like them, forgave either, and decried its lightness.

- It has been thrown into the arms of first come - cried - no love,
no estimate, because neither love nor the estimate are born so suddenly.

La has seduced the desire to go to shine the Madriles.

To buñolera which put Roma to fry and sell their donuts at the corner of the house Don Acisclo,
gypsy very judgmental, called Watermark, more famous for its judgments that the very same Peter
Lombardo said ironically:

- Dona Luz is an oriental pearl, and pearl
fisherman does not notice, or if it is or is not; what it claims is
that the fish and take a look at the Oclaye Olen.

Not a few of such
gossip reached the ears of Dona Luz, but did not make a dent in your
heart. Nothing was held out an echo in their clean and quiet conscience.
Dona Light was a woman and had a soul and felt need for love. His
love, no visible object and human as had been dormant until then.
A worthy object offered to end its eyes, and Dona Luz point he devoted
all his love. Every day, every hour that passed, said more Dona Luz
on the belief that Don Jaime deserved. The same love of D. Jaime,
the decision that he had offered his hand to her, helpless, orphan
and poor, was the best guarantee and safer.

As she got married and
wanted to go to be in Madrid, laughed scornfully Dona Luz to hear
it. Luz had decided not to go to Madrid while he could not go: stay
Villafría living in his ancestral home, have there its center, his
headquarters, nest, caring from there assets and cash them improve
and grow; drown in his soul all jealous propensity; and, not consent,
but encourage her husband to be alone in the capital, to shine Congress
of Deputies, in political struggles and military affairs. Luz wanted
Vitoria imitate this to Colonna, and wait for their hero, their sun,
their lover, when he came to rest at the rustic asylum, her love spells
had to fill and delight. I did not want, in short, be heavy burden
for him in Madrid, but rest, refuge, comfort holy and sweet, in that
village.

In his loving conversations with D. Jaime, Dona Luz revolved
around his plan. He wanted to glory power, influence at court, and
this interspersed with a series of idylls in Villafría where she had
to wait for him, as Armida charity, every time he came to rest in
his arms, covered with fresh laurels. Don Jaime was struggling because
Dona Luz had to go to Madrid with him; Dona Luz but hated it with
so great obstinacy, that D. Jaime had to compromise, agreeing that
for now, that is, until they were both much richer, Dona Luz continue
residing in Villafría.

All this was fixed so poetic that the reader,
as you know, not to censor Dona Censored light as the people of his
place, but in any case, on the contrary: for left rare and pride,
because he preferred to live many months of the year separated from
her husband to be in Madrid perpetual cause prosaic and economic difficulties,
enough to kill the love more robust