 My uncle tried everything not like anything, and I satisfy my need, more
than appetite, twelve hours, almost as much as the sight of abundant food, as the parvidades
that they took ... But Don Pedro Nolasco! ... I had no measure their calo stomach vulture
devoured up to the eyes, and much that does not fit in the mouth while worked his throat, Corriale
in rivulets on the outside to sink under the sobarba between leather jacket, or mixed dropwise
with the filth of the vest.

They spoke little on the table, and this was most recently my uncle to say insulting glutton, who
did not answer, nor do I think I heard him, and to ponder his surprise at what picky I came across
him in the dining room, and especially by the 'plan' for my supper, so on, I drew him. I could
not understand the good lord that a boy of my age and my health, ate as he put forward at any time of
day or night. "Rich and hearty" was the motto of good men eat lavish
coat of my uncle.

Walking into this and "belch" and the giant for not having the stomach thing that more juice
entertainment, a bell was heard hourglass toward the more obscure and remote from the room.

- Half past ten! - Said my uncle turning in the bank -. I think it's time leave you in peace.
The trip will be well ground bones, and you'll want to overthrow in bed. Otherwise you would not
believe: the labyrinth of cattle down, and the gathering of up after praying the Rosary, rare
is the night we went to bed early ... And You see, you'll see, pispajo!
how we live here, but montunos and poor, the wealthy use City ...
"So entendístelo, Marmitón?

Well, Jorrios! While you're jartu, and his house which does.

Levantámonos all thanked the priest, and faithfully fulfilled We replied,
and went with Don Pedro Nolasco, not without making me see the stars
again with the handshakes I got for dismissal.

Shortly thereafter, I locked myself in my room, paseábame over him trying to think in many things
without actually thinking based on anything I do not know if it really
did not want, or because he could not think otherwise.

With this darkness in my brain and the continuous hum River in Glen,
I finally feel sleepy, and went to bed.

Clean white clothes like the sun was my bed, but how cold ... and how hard I found it!

V

However, I slept all night in one fell swoop, but dreaming a lot and many things each more extravagant.
I remember that I dreamed of the bear the Port, with gorges and ravines they had no end, and so
narrow throat, I could not even walk by them in sideways. Persisted in fleeing the fierce pass
that I was swaying on his feet back and licking his nose, forcing both wedge my body, which stirred
the mountains at their bases and ranged up there, high up! the rocky peaks, and even collapsed
many of them on me, but without hurting myself. I also dreamed my uncle dancing in the kitchen
by the fire, some women seguidillas gray singing ringing a large
skillet; and then with Don Pedro Nolasco, who ate raw calves and birch
logs and rocks Bardales granite, while they were eating up to me,
fiber to fiber and little by little, the Boredom and Melancholia,
one of the most horrible marriage, who lived at the bottom of an abyss
end anywhere.

Perhaps because that was my last dream of the night, was so sad I wake up in the morning. Because
it was really sad! But I slept with wary curiosity to know sight of land they had voluntarily
bury, and feeling suddenly revive that strong desire to see a bit of light filtering through
the cracks of the doors, I rose quickly, Laverne shivering in the
shelter envolvíme thickest of the various I had at my disposal, and
looked at the same balcony that I had looked at night