 Young and lively character, he loved the danger and perished for driving,
whatever they were the hardships experienced by those transported by chivalry derrocaderos as a child
in the cradle of wind.

Zayas grinding effect. Stacks of freshly mown honey cane sides closed almost free House of wits,
leaving only a passage for large enough, yes, by the side of Batey, or road that brought travelers.
We noticed a great shout and movement there, as inside than outside. Inside the mill mules passed
and repassed in front of the space precipitate open in turn, lashed mercilessly by black youths
ran couple of them for that sole purpose. In between that infernal racket distinctly heard the
rustle of reed bundles of other slaves naked from the waist up threw once and without rest
in the cylindrical mass of iron. Across the mill, although if it were over the din and clamor,
so to speak, the confused noises, no could see anything; impedíalo fully dense smoke mixed with
steam which indicated of the boiling cauldron, which was baked sweet cane juice and filled with immense
fragrant columns throughout the interior of the large laboratory.

Outside, a double row of carts, loaded or were near to that house, or away from vacuum in the
direction of the field or cutting cane, as they say, all pulled by a pair of no less thin oxen
to slow in their movements. Standing at the foot of each team walked the conductor or slave road, armed
with long goddaughter sharp spike of iron, and all along the double row of carts, and in one
direction and another opposite, rode his mule walker the white Bovero, also armed, but not rod, but
the essential leather, with which occasionally crossed the backs of black that I thought remiss
in using the iron goddaughter.

The making of the carts was left handed and primitive as you can imagine, the lubrication given
the shafts, so that squeaked constantly charged, the passage that the vacuum with excessive
clearance wheels and manga, about not ever save the perpendicular, was Whatever level the floor,
made a nasty jingle, continually hitting the sotrozos bilortas loose against an iron, and going
out of your site tables of the bed. For a long stretch in both directions, the sugar mill
and disappeared Guardarraya under thatched leaves and even useful pieces of cane dropped by carelessness,
excess loading or material default of the vehicles used in transportation. In this unfortunate
contributed waste as most drivers. As soon as he walked away the stockman a given point, the
driver immediately took advantage to take the load the piece of cane It seemed best, in which
event drew several others fell on the road and remained there to be trampled and crushed by the
carriages that were coming back. Did not care that, before is in his mouth at one end a piece of
cane and sucked her eager, while encouraging to steers unrhythmicity voices and repeated punctures
to draw blood from them: it can be in retaliation for the herdsman was jumping on their backs
with the pita, or call it art, the terrible whip.

Such scenes or other very similar to these were repeated in view of
the passengers, in step by Jabaco mills, Tibotibo, El Mariel or old
Escobar, Ríohondo and Valvanera.

Between the two plantations last mentioned, only a small sitiería sighted to the right side
of the road, that is, a group of thatched huts where some families poor grew a short piece of land
and raised animals. I could not given even the name of the village, since there, or for many miles
around, was no school or church. Sugar mills to produce not consent, usually in their immediate
vicinity, such symbols of progress and civilization.

To get rid of those bitter thoughts tried to separate the eyes of black soil, hard and dull,
like soft iron, road, and passed through top of the flowers and references light violet color
of the cane in season, to stumble in the blue where it joined the horizon with very dark summits
of the distant mountains.

But for more than a powerful motive was not possible to Isabel demanded that concentration the spirit
in his agony. Were as frequent abrupt undulations, the way though wide, necessarily distorted,
narrow and deep ravines, the most which had to pass by bridges made without art or strength,
with wood logs, or tables taken from the trunks of palm trees