 Also we acontefció with eftos, i with that behind havemos forsaken, us vn Pedaço
meat, i eat it raw sharpening because it pufieramos fi à afar, the first Indian coming, I had
faith, i ate: parefcianos, which was not put in efta good fortune, i also nofotros eftabamos
not such that we shook AFAD worth eating, we could i not pafar well as oil. Efta is life, that
there had, so i that little fuftentamiento We earned the Refcates, which nueftras hecimos hands.

CAP.
XXIII. As we departed, eaten haver defpues of Dogs.

Defpues we ate the dogs, parefciendonos we had some effort to go forward, encomendamonos Nueftro Lord
God, that we guiafe, we defpedimos of the Indians, i them we walked to other language fu, which
eftaban near there. E iend by nueftro way, it rained all that day i walked with Water: beyond
the efto i lost the way i we ended up seventh largest Monte mui, i caught many sheets of Tunas,
i afamoslas that Oven vn night that hecimos, i dimosles both fire that morning eftaban to eat:
i defpues of haverlas eaten encomendamonos God, i partimonos, i found the road which havia
lost, i pafado Mount, we find other Indian CAFAS, i got there, we saw two women, i Boys who
faith efpantaron, who went by the mountain, i see us huieron of nofotros, i went to call the
Indians, who went by the Monte; i come, pararonfe VNOs at us detràs of Trees, llamamosles
i, i allegaronfe with much fear, i defpues of haverlos spoken, they told us, he was very hungry,
there i that about many eftaban CAFAS them proprio i dix eron, would lead us to them: i that
night we where fifty CAFAS havia, i efpantaban faith to see us, i moftraban very afraid, i defpues
eftuvieron something that fofegados of nofotros, allegabannos hands to roftro, i the body,
i brought them defpues hands fus fus mifmas faces, bodies fus i: i afi eftuvimos that night,
i am coming, traxeronnos the sick, they had, praying that the fantiguafemos, i did what we had
to eat leaves were Tunas Green Tunas AFAD i, i for the good treatment we were doing, because
what i had gave it to us willingly, i will, i was glad to be eating so give it to us, eftuvimos with
them a few days: i eftando there, others came later. Quando Quifa faith based, diximos the
former, we wanted to go with those. They were weighed much harder than i rogaronnos mui we do not
fuefemos: i finally defpedimos us of them, we left crying i nueftra the heading, pefaba much
because they greatly.

CAP. XXIV. Coftumbres of the Indians of that land.

Malhado Defde Island, all Indians, who saw Earth hafta efta, are coftumbre,
defde the day faith fienten womenfolk fus pregnant, not sleeping together,
hafta that pafen two years, who have raised children, you hafta suck
quale fon age twelve, then ia eftàn age, which itself bufcar Faben
eating.

Preguntamosles, which raised afi why? And they said, that for the hungry, than on Earth havia
that acontefcia many times as nofotros viam, eftàr two or three days in order to eat, I at times
four: i for the CAUF efta dexaban suck, because in times of famine muriefen no, i ia some efcapafen,
faldrian mui delicate little i force it ACAF acontefce i fi get sick some die dexanlos in those
fields, fine is Son, i everyone else can go with them fine, faith are: more to take seventh
child, or sibling, faith charge, i take it acueftas. All acoftumbran dexar eftos fus womenfolk,
when no ai including compliance, i faith turns to Cafaro with whom you wish to: efto is among the
sons, but those who have children with fus permanefcen woman, i do not dexan: Quando i in some
peoples misunderstanding, i locked queftiones VNOs with others, apuñeanfe, i apaleanfe, mui eftàn
hafta that CANF, i then defparten faith: Sometimes defparten wife, going between them, which men
do not enter defpartirlos: i for any pafion they have, Arcos do not get into it, or arrows, i
have faith defque altitude sickness, i pafado queftion fu, take fus CAFAS, i woman, i live à
FNPV Fields, i separated from the others, that faith will hafta AFAP anger, i eftàn defenojados
Quando ia, i so angry, tornanfe Fu Village, later ai i fon Friends, as any crow hoviera fi
pafado among them, nor is anyone to menefter the amiftades, because of faith are efta way, i
fi fon which no quarrel cafados, FNPV other Neighbors fus, fus fean Enemies and though the refciben
good faith i rejoice with them a lot, i give them what they have, strongly, that when anger
is pafado, Buelow Fu Village, i are rich. All are men of war, i have so much to guardarfe of fus
aftucia Enemies as servants fuefen fi Terni in Italy, i constantly War. Quando eftàn in part
fus Enemies can offend, fus afientan CAFAS at the edge of the Mount more afpero, i maior efpefura
that there are, i do with him Fofo vn, i sleep in ETFE. All People efta War covered with twigs,
i do, fus faeteras: i eftàn so covered, i difimulados, eftèn although it is they, not the
look, i do vn mui angofto way, i hafta go middle del Monte, i there are place for the women sleep,
i children, i Quando comes the night lit fires in CAFAS fus, fi hoviere to EFPIA, eftàn believe
in them, i before Alva's turn to light the fires mifmos; i fi ACAF Enemies come to give in mifmas
CAFAS, which falen Fofo eftàn in them, i do a lot of damage defde the trenches, so that outsiders
see them, nor can find; i Quando i Montes not that they can of efta efconderfe way, i do fus helmets,
afientan in plain, at the best they parefce: i cercanfe Carving, Wood covered with fine, i do
fus faeteras, with which Indian arrow, i eftos repairs made to the night. Eftando I with those
of watered down, no eftando avifados, fus Enemies came at midnight, i gave them, i killed three,
i wounded many others, strongly, that of fus huieron CAFAS by Mount below: i defque the other faith
feint havia gone, they returned to them, i collected all the arrows, which the others were
thrown havia, i the most secretly as they could, the Figuer, i eftuvieron fus fobre CAFAS
night, so that fuefen paired against i the quarto of Alva rushed, i killed them five, so many
others who were injured, i made them flee, i dexar fus CAFAS, i Arcos, with all fu hacienda
ai i Shortly after came the wives of those who Quevenes called faith, i understood between them,
i made them friends, but sometimes fon them beginning of the War. Eftas All Ages, when they
have enemiftades particular Quando non vna fon of Family, Faith kill at night, afechanças,
i vfan VNOs with other major cruelties.

CAP. XXV. As the Indians fon preftos a weapon.

Efta is the most prefta People for vn Arma, of all that I've vifto in the world, because faith
fi fus fear of enemies, all night eftàn defpiertos with a pair of Arcos fus yes, i vna dozen
Arrow: i the sleeper, tempts fu Arco, i fi not found in string, which gives the buelta has menefter.
Often leave out of the CAFAS, baxados by fuel, art can not viftos fer, i look, i Atalaia everywhere
for paired against what ai: i fi else fienten, fon at seventh spot
all the fus Country Bows, Arrows i, i hafta eftan afi day, running
VNAs à part, i other, where you see menefter, ò pienfan Enemies can
eftàr fus.

Quando next day, become afloxar fus à Arcos, hafta that falen cocoa.

The strings of Deer Arcos niervos fon. The way they fight is, Abax by fuel, i while arrows
faith, walking talking, i missing out fiempre of vn for another, guardandofe of Arrows of fus
Enemies: So that parts can refcibir femejantes mui Balleftas little damage, i muskets, before
the Indians make fun of them because eftas Weapons of no use for them Fields plains, where they
walk fueltos: fon good for eftrechos, i instead of water: in all other fon Horses who have
fojuzgar, i what the Indians vniverfalmente fear. Who hoviere to fight against them, it eftàr avifado
mui, who does not fientan flaqueça, greed or what they have, i while durare War mui hanle to
treat evil because fear fi know them, or some greed, it is people who fabe conofcer times when
vengarfe, i strive to take the fear of the opponents. Quando faith have a crush in the war, i Gafta
ammunition fu, fu WNV buelvenfe each way, so that the VNOs figan other, although VNOs fean many,
the few others i: i efta is coftumbre got on. Often faith pafan à part part with the arrows,
i do not die from injuries, plays fine in the gut, or heart, prefto Fanano before. See, i
Oien more, i have more acute paired against, which I think quantos Men to Worldwide. They are
great fufridores hungry, I fed, i cold, such as those eftàn more acoftumbrados, i made this,
than others. Efto I wanted to tell here, because beyond that all Men defean the coftumbres faber,
i exercises of the others, some Sometimes faith they come to see with them, eftèn coftumbres
avifados of fus, i schemes that fuel oils femejantes no small advantage in CAFOs.

CAP. XXVI. Nations, i languages.

Fus Nations also want to tell, i languages, which defde Malhado Island, the vltimos hafta ai.
On the Isle of Malhado ai two languages: the call of Caoques VNOs, others call i à Han-firm
On Earth, opposite the island, ai others that they call faith Chorruco, i take the name of the
Mountains where they live. Later in the COFTA of the Sea, inhabited by other, that faith Doguenes
call, i front of them others who are begging by name. Later, in COFTA, eftàn the Quevenes; i
front of them, in the Tierra Firme, the Mariames: i iend by COFTA forward eftàn others, who
called faith Guaycones; i opposite eftos within on Earth-firm, Yguaces.

Eftàn eftos after another, whose faith called Atay; i detràs Eftos,
other Acubadaos, i ai eftos many for efta path forward.

In the living COFTA others, called Quitoles; i eftos opposite, in the Tierra Firme, the Avavares.
With eftos faith together the Maliacones, other Cutalchiches i, i others, who called faith Sufolas,
i others Comos call that faith, i later in the COFTA, eftàn the Camole; i in front COFTA mifma
others, who call nofotros those of Figs. All rooms have eftas Gentes, Peoples i, i diverfas
Languages. Among eftos vna Language ai in calling men, by look here, here arre, dogs XO faith in
all the earth drunk with smoke vn, i give quanto have for him. Also drink another crow, which
façana of the leaves of the trees, like Oak, i tueftanla in VNOs fire boats, they have it i defpues
Toft, swell the pot of water, i have it fobre afi fire, i Quando has boiled twice in vna echanlo
Vafija, i eftàn quenching with half Calabaceado; i Quando very efpuma efta, bebenla so hot,
quanto can fufrir; i defde that façana Pot, hafta who drink it, eftàn crying, saying: Let him
who wants to drink. And when the women eftas hear voices, then move ofarfe faith stop order; and
though much eftèn charged ofan not make another crow: i fi ACAF faith can move some of them,
dishonor, i give it sticks, mui i with great anger spilling water with drinking, which i have
become drunk Lance, what they do mui qual slightly, so i penalty. The racon of coftumbre give
them, I say: Let fi Quando they want to drink that water, The women move from where faith takes
their voice, their faith in that water gets into the body vna crow bad, i which makes them a little
from then die all the time i Water efta cooking, Pot has eftàr Atapas; i fi ACAF defatapado efta,
some women i PAFA, the leak, i do not drink water more than that: it is yellow, i eftàn drinking
it three days in order to eat, i each WNV arroba drink every day i mean it, i the women Quando
fu coftumbre eftàn with no bufcan to eat more than folas yes, because no other perfona eat what
they bring. In the afi eftaba time between vi eftos vna mischief, i is, I saw another cafado Man
vn, Men VNOs fon i eftos Amarion helpless as i walk capped woman, i do job of a woman, i throw
Arco, i have big load mui, i between eftos saw many of them, afi Amarion as I say, i fon more
brawny than other men, higher i: fufren large mui loads.

CAP. XXVIIth. Of how we moved, i went well refcibidos.

Defpues that we departed from those we left crying, others fuimonos with CAFAS fus, i of those
who were well refcebidos eftaban them, i fus they brought their children to TOCAF hands, i dabannos
Mezquiquez much flour. Fruit vna Mezquiquez ETFE is, that when EFTA in the tree is bitter mui, i
is how Algárrovas, i comefe to earth, i with efta her sweet, i good to eat. The way I have with
it is efta, they do vn hoio in the fuel, the depth of each VNO wants, i defpues pitch hoio
Fruit in ETFE, vn so fat suit with the leg of brace i mean i long grind ground hafta mui; i other
than faith hits the Earth's hoio, bring others fists in the hoio echanla i, i turn another
time to grind, i defpues echanla in vna Vafija, so Efpuerta vna, so i echanle Water, BAFTA cover
of water is strong for top, i which has been ground prove it, i fi
le parefce efta not sweet, called Earth, i rebuelvela with it, i hafta
do that efto finds it sweet, i afientanfe all around, i put your hand
each VNO, what can i FACA, it i the Nuggets again take fobre VNOs
Hides, i the Cafco; i which has ground the catch, i again take on
the Efpuerta that, i check as the first water, i turns to efpremir
the ULC, i fale Water it, i the nuggets, i shall set Cafco in Leather
how do i efta three or four times a grind: i those in ETFE Banquet,
mui for them is great, faith are, are the large mui Barrigas Earth,
Water i have drunk, i made us Indians efto great Fiefta mui, mui i
Hovo including large Bailes, i Areito, while there eftuvimos.

And when at night slept at the door Eftabamos ranch where we watched
every feis nofotros VNO of men, with great care, so that no one OFAF
go inside the Sun was hafta falido.

Quando nofotros Quifa us From them, there came other VNAs womenfolk, who were living below:
i informed eftaban them where those CAFAS, we set forth, but they asked us a lot, that one day
we detuviefemos, because where we were eftaban CAFAS far away, i no havia way for them, i
came to this woman CANF, i defcanfando, faith would go another day with nofotros, i would guide
us, we defpedimos amphi i, i dende by little the women who havia come, with others of mifmo
People were following nofotros faith: but as no havia Earth roads, then we lost, i amphi Went
four leagues, i after they arrived in vn drinking water where we found the women who we feguian,
i they told us the work havia pafado of scope. We start from there taken by Guia, i pafamos vn
Rio, when ia evening came, gave us water to the breasts: fair as wide as that of Seville, i ran
mui much, i à puefta the sun reaches one hundred Indian CAFAS; i before llegafemos, Fali all the
people in them havia à refcebirnos, so cry, it was efpanto, i give in big pat thighs: carried
the Calabaceado pierced with stones inside, which is the crow's maior fiefta, i do not façana
fine dancing, or to cure, nor make anyone ofa fine them, i say that those Calabaceado has virtue,
i coming from Heaven, because by that I do not land or where aia Faben, fine that brought
Rios, when flood comes.