 Do you earn and thrive day laborers, five or six that are of real wages, use two or three
came and one in snuff, perhaps hunger killing their wives and children? "Win's husband, weak
or vain, who insists that his wife has a box at the Opera? Do you earn, in short, which do not
save, which consumes more than it produces, which on income its capital spending, which has the
ability to acquire ten and need to eat thirty or a hundred? Of course, not wins, but loses, and finally
broke. And what happens individuals, can not happen, rather it is with the nations? Just as
there are individuals low ability to produce and very able to spend, there can be, and no nations
with the same qualities? Laziness, waste and incompetence, "can not occur in a nation as given
in a guy?

I do not fear any European nation, no matter how fraught it is for the above ailments, come at
last to be lost and destroyed, as were destroyed and lost those colossal empires the center of Asia,
as those powerful civilizations collapsed, wonder of the world old. I do not fear to Madrid,
Seville, Lisbon or Florence, you will come to pass Sidon and Tyre that, Susa, Ecbatana, Nineveh
and Babylon Bactra. Although consume much more of what they produced, the punishment would be
limited to long periods of forced abstinence and pitiful plight, that the delay in relation
to other peoples of Europe were higher, and to continue dragging and dropping like a trailer
the other nations. But such is faith I have in progressive virtue, in the vital energy of
European civilization I can not even conceive that a nation that is dying in her womb powerful
and exhilarating. However, the withdrawal of which we spoke, the troubles, going to the trailer
and shame backwardness and inferiority, they are still tough punishment.

To discourse, from a fixed point on these issues so difficult, should first explain why certain phenomena
which offers modern European civilization, phenomena it seems contrary to everything that in ancient
civilizations was noticeable, whence there now comes the award, given by axiomatic, and are
entirely contrary to other sentences that little has passed through also axiomatic.

In the old, and in the old saying do not go very far (Michael Montaigne and Machiavelli thought
so), rudeness and poverty was thought that gave impetus to the nations and nerve while wealth and
culture of the enervated. Alejandro was poor and rich beat Darius poor and rough were subjugated
by the Romans and the enlightened, educated and wealthy kingdoms of Macedonia, Syria and Egypt.
When the Goths invaded Greece, reports that tried to burn all libraries, but a clever and discreet
captain of the Goths had to persuade them to libraries were effeminate Greeks, docks and cowardly,
and that this was appropriate leave the books to have them always under the yoke. In this way the
libraries were saved.

Nowadays, however, if a nation decided to undercut another, seek make ignorant and poor. Science
and wealth, far from thin people today, give them energy and strength, but things well considered, there
is the slightest contradiction in it. In the old, once one of the most common means of acquiring
wealth to the strip neighbors through war. On this day, although these remains, these violent robberies
continue to be, not made in such a grand scale. Milder manners do not agree. The war, moreover,
this mode of stripping violently one nation to another, has become tired expensive. Production
costs in modern warfare tend to be much greater than what is produced, if produced can be called
what it takes against the will of its owner. Hence, first Instead, they hardly undertake any
war and the purpose of enriching, and second , that rich people are those who have more means
to the war and probability of winning. Before, the people are strong and warriors were so
rich; on the day the people get rich in order to be strong and warriors. No doubt will develop
more, when people get rich just to be more moral, happier and more enlightened, but this is still
far. The mania to dominate and prevail over other not be cured in many centuries.

Today not a few authors argue, Buckle and others, as celebrated throughout
the world, that Political Economy conspires an irresistible way to
end the bloody wars, to that utopia of perpetual peace come to be.

For this, no doubt, and for other reasons no less singular, have become so crazy extreme admiration,
adoration and fanaticism of Political Economy. For Buckle, Adam Smith has done more for humanity
than all wise, all prophets and all the immortal geniuses who are born mother and that have human
flesh covered in this naughty world. Neither the laws of Solon, Numa and Manu or all books of
philosophy, or the Gospels themselves, compared with a damn Wealth of Nations. According to Buckle,
the Wealth of Nations is "the most important book who has ever written, its publication has
contributed most to the happiness of the human lineage that talent gathered from all statesmen
and all legislators, who keeps us remember the story a real thing. "

All this may be true, but it is also true that since the year 1776, which came to light for
the first time the book divine Savior, Redeemer and peacemaker, wars have been so frequent as
ever and a thousand times more frightening by the millions of men
in them have perished miserably.

When there is no war, there is a bad thing, perhaps worse than War: armed peace. Money spent
foolishly in maintaining huge armies, and strong men, young and strong in Europe, away from
all useful work are provided with weapons in hand, stalking, spying and threatened. True Economy
Politics and the wonderful book by Adam Smith have not been remedied so wrong. If anything
of remedying it, must be the philosophy, religion better understood than in other centuries,
and the very excess of evil, which might end up make it impossible.

The means of destruction are increased by such art that it is feared that soon may in a minute
kill millions of men, can be fired in a second more bombs, bullets and shrapnel than a century
has skyrocketed in thirty or forty years, and such and so loud shots
may be that the cost of one is sufficient to maintain for a whole
year family.

Spending so much horror and so much bloodshed, the politicians cry, and cry and many, even for
peace and disarmament, not because Adam Smith and his disciples the been convinced. I do not
think that Napoleon III has the heart of butter and jelly; but the awful spectacle of the battlefield
of Solferino, so many thousands of corpses, had to be worrying and the heart, deciding to peace,
even before their promise to free Italy to the Adriatic. Adam Smith and all his theories were not
any part in this determination.

If any economic thinking prevent war or make more difficult in coming, is independent of science:
it is not necessary to have read by economists to conceive. Thought is simple and clear: it
is the thought of how much the war costs. Governments also almost always have to resort to borrowing
to make war.

Those who lend money have an interest in the money provided is grown as possible, So, even without have
other causes, the role of low debt and have the public wealth.

Those who have to lose, the rich men are, therefore, peaceful, and as those with money rule the
day more than ever and have a very large influence on opinion, is that wars are condemned by
public opinion, when there is a strong encouragement of selfishness
that induces them, as, for example, opening a new market for domestic
products, introduced in some countries the freedom to worship little
trade, divine works of Adam Smith, opium or other drugs worse, guns
and bayonets, entertain and recreate and intoxicate the people with
glory so as not to annoy and to rise up, and perhaps disposal, following
the doctrines of an economist, of that part of the population is more
than enough, which is not covered prepared at the feast of life, that
disturbs or breaks the balance that must exist between the output
and consumption, including still and livelihoods.

Besides material and bloody war, has taken in our days that never again rise war brings to
humanity infinite goods, and takes on wings, not by the way real progress, but for a trail
or shortcut. But, as there is no shortcut without work, this another war, which is the industrial
and commercial, fearing disturbances arise, hard conditions, horrible and heartbreaking disappointments
ruins. Does not concern me explain this or do here satire as being of modern societies. I
refer the reader to the Socialists, children legitimate economists and their more cruel and bitter
adversaries. Even the Economy Policy had no greater sin than to have raised their breasts to
socialism could not be acquitted altogether. Moreover, socialism, except that today is just an
outbreak, a desideratum, an aspiration, is, according to some, that
is, it will be with respect to the empirical and pedestrian Political
Economy, which are sublime mathematics with respect to the four rules
of arithmetic.

Social science or sociology tell yourself (and ridiculous hybrid word!) is yet to be invented,
but otherwise the positivists hold. The trouble is that problems that this science has been raised
and not resolved, and criticism bold, intelligent and destructive that has been wavering faith
in the existing social order, have all filled with men suspicion, within each state, assuming always
that violence may occur to resolve the intricate problems of the newest science, to break off
their foundations throughout the building society to rely on other better and stronger. Hence
the not there is only war or armed peace between them and other States, but war or armed peace
that is, constant danger and surprise, within each state. In all which does not appear to been
remedied political economy, but came to worse.

Do not believe the discreet reader will not know what to say to my ramblings in this paper.
At the restaurant he called him an excuse meditation, meditation and being on such a vast and so
on all matters such as money. To be discussed in depth, and clarity, order and convenient method, I
would have been necessary to write a thick volume. But why, I say, you have chosen such a vast
subject, when not writing thought this thick volume, but a newspaper article? To which I answer:
a lack of money the public distress, the plight of the Treasury, the laments I hear everywhere, the
showing some hope that economists will save us, the little confidence warn others in the effectiveness
healthy economists, discreteos of all, means that many proposed, converted into an official,
to lead a safe haven, and the various explanations given about the causes of serious problem
affecting all me with irresistible vehemence has led to meditation and discourse on these issues,
in which I confess I have little or no knowledge.

But considering me as vulgar, profane, I still believe that, if not useful, at least could be entertaining
and interesting to expose him that ponders the vulgar, which Alamba and rambles on the subject.
So I have been echoed faithful of the vulgar in this meditation, embellishing it with some moral
judgments drawn from reading of the philosophers. Do not be surprised, then, that I did not
try anything, I do not conclude anything not chair a dominant thought throughout this letter
of mine.

I fear making me dilate heavy, but I can think of several comments that I have value to pass in
silence.

This is the first that, in the present state of civilization, and still am about to say that
always, not what happens to nations with individuals, which, as stated above, can be sages,
saints and poets and poor. A nation, if intelligent and active, holy, by wise and heroic and
poetic it is, must be rich too. If you become poor, gives sharp and clear signals that it
is unwise, or that is not active, or that have secular disease that has failed to heal.

It said, in 1629, the Padre Fray Benito de Pe침alosa and Mondrag칩n, in a curious book which gave
the picture that Spain is very Catholic and very monarchy, and have
three other excellence more, causing its depopulation and ruin.

Buckle says the same thing, in perfect Consistent with the Father Pe침alosa, who has guessed
and unread.

Our religious and our love and loyalty to the kings have brought us so lost and so backward. In
contrast, Buckle according to the same in Scotland and there has been great prosperity and
progress. There, although also have the misfortune to be on religious, have had the good fortune
and excellent quality of being very disloyal to their sovereign.

The Scots, says Buckle, have waged war on almost all their kings have
been beheaded several, have killed others, and have even sold one
of them, a certain amount of money they much needed.

The wisdom of the Scots has earned them the prosperity and progress, and above all the glory
of Adam Smith that El Salvador is born between them.

The strange doctrine set out above, identical in Buckle and Pe침alosa, can not be refuted or
censored with irony. It is necessary to dispose of them seriously. Not a matter of derision.
No. wealth and prosperity and culture do not go to the people, because people leave God and
kill or sell their princes.

In an individual, perhaps the goodness and excellence of character have been an obstacle to fortune:
in a village, we do not want or believe. Therefore, if Spain is poor today backward fault, not
his virtues, but of his vices, not of good quality, but bad.

Dan other because of our backwardness and our poverty of aridity and soil infertility, offers a
few resources, but even that aridity and sterility that were true, as a nation does not live
in the soil, but the ingenuity and industriousness of their children, could not this need to
be the origin of evil.

In past centuries and in these countries there were and are famous people who have flourished
in sterile soil. The attic floor is an example of this, and Thucydides attributed sterility
which there came to form such a glorious and prosperous state, because
in the early Greek civilization, the men fled the fertile land invaded
or continuously infested with thieves and pirates, and they came to
take refuge in Attica to be protected from the ravages and devastation.

Venice, which was so powerful and America also had a similar origin, and was founded by people
in a runaway gaps the barbarian invaders of Italy. Scotland it will be all colorful and cute
you want, but no one agrees that no course is sterile, no doubt, more sterile than Spain. The same
can be said of Holland and many other countries, if they depart from the imagination that have
already made to improve the art and ingenuity.

Thinkers have to go to the extreme, and attribute the dream or real inferiority of our civilization
to the abundance of maintenance and ease of life for poor people. This is said to loosen any
spring of action and that makes people weak and prone servitude, while in countries where
people have had to fight hard and overcome great obstacles to earn a living, after the wins
and lives, is more dignified and energetic, and less experienced in any kind of yoke and clamp. They
may eg assertion of India and Egypt, and is not to deny that they are examples that have the force.
Argue, also the cause of the backwardness of Ireland and humiliation have been the abundance
and cheapness of potatoes.

Have more reason, in my view, those who think so, that they attribute backwardness, stagnation,
or rather the ground of sterility, but I dare not to give the reason or some or other, and
especially in the case of Spain.