 

I got it to work with all possible activity, but seemed to me to complement my American studies
was essential to my work was so helpful as I wanted. I needed to establish a positive comparison,
connections or differences that could exist between orography geological composition, especially
agricultural and industrial potential of the mountains of Bolivia, and our mountains of the
Pyrenees and the Alps. Wanted to go too, under these same views, fields in the north, west and
especially the south of France, in order to draw with knowledge of fact, to try every American
province, improvements in them could be introduced. While it is conceivable that it was necessary
to invest time in research of this species, more especially as, without being helped in any
way in this regard, I should impose all sorts of sacrifices to achieve my object. Finally, by
dint of perseverance armed with a strong will, little by little I could overcome the difficulties,
and these voyages of exploration, made at my expense, and repeated in all parts of France, in Savoy,
Suisa, Germany and Belgium, have allowed me to set my mind on a multitude of issues relating
to the improvement of the countries I had visited, and especially of Bolivia, to which above
all wanted to be useful, however, she lies and dreams in that chore I had my tax on their behalf.
These are the reasons that made me suspend so long the publication of the historical narrative
of my journey on the mountains Bolivia. But in spite of all these delays, my work [1] is now
to complete. She consists of a series of volumes containing:

1 ° The historical part or the narrative of my journey;

2 ° The geography;

3 ° The geology;

4 ° Paleontology;

5 ° The American man;

6 ° mammals

7
° birds

8 ° The fish;

9 ° molluscs and snails;

10 ° Crustaceans;

11
° insects

12 ° foraminifera;

13 ° polyps;

14 ° Palms;

16 ° cryptogams.

Such

was the state of things on my posts about the new world, where HE
General Don José Ballivian, president of Bolivia, animated most ardent
zeal for the advancement and improvement of their beautiful country,
had seen fit to remember me, responsible for giving birth to a complete
geographical description, statistics and historical information on
that republic.

Honored with this new proof of confidence from a government that
wanted to be helpful, I accepted gladly such a task, in spite of my
other scientific works, taking advantage of this occasion, that I
longed to give Bolivia a public testimony of my gratitude, making
known its soil, and the main and most useful productions of this,
while the benefits they removed, according to our industry and agriculture,
its various modes benefit.

Had as the possibility of publishing many and very precious documents
in my explorations European transatlantic and, diversity of applications
important to the local industry and trade, all of which, being a very
special interest to Bolivia, no I would have been allowed to print
in the general work of my journey.

In undertaking this particular, completely free from political concerns,
I will have achieved I intend to object if it can cooperate to improve
the noble thoughts and of progress in Bolivia, incessantly occupied
Ballivian HE general, as well If reached, this long work, to give
to the Bolivian proof of my gratitude and my attachment to all.

* * * * *

PLAN OF THE WORK.

A geographical description, statistics, and history of Bolivia can be considered in two ways different
principle or be given to her by exposure of the general relative the set, and then entered
partial details peculiar to each department and to each province or follow a reverse, describing
first the specialty ie, the provinces, to give immediately the department summary, and finish
the work general considerations can be drawn from all the particular facts. This second method
of writing is that I shall take to my work, be more appropriate than the previous and also the most
logical than deductions because deductions is to summarize the known facts and circumstances, grouping
them to take the consequences.

Adopted this plan, will trace the first division in a department, then I will detail of each
province gave its geographical situation in latitude and longitude its extension on the surface,
its limits, its configuration, its orographic, address form and geological
composition of their mountains, its valleys and plains, I will then
a complete description of the rivers that cross, lakes and swamps
that cover, the nature of its land and its temperature.

To complete my painting, I try to Finally draw the entire outline of his face animal, vegetable
and mineral, according to its various regions.

After giving to know the country under the guise of its natural character, principiaré the
history.

       The first time contains, according to early writers and according
to my observations, details on the American nations before the conquest
of new world inhabited the province.

Describe their ancient limits, its divisions, their migrations, their
customs, Regarding seeking to scrutinize the real or fabulous history
and its religion.

Outlined the first picture, going down in history of the conquest. I will continue in his excursions
to those bold and brave Spanish adventurers who crossed the thirst of gold country everywhere,
making known to the hordes of savages, or semi-civilized peoples, the European firepower. Also
accompany the persistent apostles of evangelical faith, feared not face, in order to get the object
of their religious mission, many dangers at every step they saw as a spring under their feet.
Try, more to give a description of these nascent colonies, indicating its progress and its
transition from the yoke of Spain to the independence National: Finally,
across all ages and different degrees of civilization, arrive at the
current state, it deserves a wider development.

Will begin with a chapter that treats of the population according to political divisions and castes,
and which give a slight review of the uses, the way of living of the inhabitants, their amusements,
their manners in general and in particular. Then I will give a description of all the inhabited
places, dealing with their resources, their trade, the means of communication that bind to each
other. Considering the whole province, I will discuss the products of their industry today,
from natural products that could be used in the animal, vegetable
and mineral.

Another chapter will indicate the improvement of agricultural, industrial and trade for each province
is susceptible, becoming known as possible, through comparison with different regions of Europe,
who shall preferably should be applied to each branch, in Bolivia points that come closest to
the former, to utilize all local resources so multiplied, and largely
unknown to the present.

In these latter considerations, that are most important, discuss the question of the great means
of communication, and the channels for commercial traffic, giving the fullest detail navigation
interior, and the possibility of opening a direct correspondence between Bolivia and Europe,
whether down the rivers Madeira and the Amazon, either by the rivers Pilcomayo Paraguay and La-Plata,
thus opening an inexhaustible source of wealth for Bolivia, and for the European government that
wishes to undertake this gigantic task, as worthy of a century of progress.

After making the subsequent description of all the provinces, according to the order I have
just mentioned, I will finish the work by the general in overall
terms, under the same views embrace the whole republic.

Summary latter include the history and ancient geography of the Incas, whose mysterious crib on
the shores of Lake Chucuito also belongs to Bolivia. Tiaguanaco is between the Aymara nation,
where he has developed since then agricultural and pastoral life, where social ideas have germinated,
where was born the first royal and religious government of Peru. It is also in Bolivia (La-Paz) which
brought the first cries of freedom and independence of South America, July 16, 1809.

ORDER OF PUBLICATION.

Two circumstances I determined to start the description of Bolivia's departments Beni and Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra,
or better say the interior provinces of Caupolican, of Yuracaré, Moxos and Chiquitos. It consists
of the first in which the central provinces the continent are less known to the mass of the Bolivian
population, and that is important for government and for speculators to know the advantages they offer,
to the various kinds of benefit or to their commercial transactions, regardless of interest
Always inspiring loving citizen of his country, knowledge of some of its own country, which
may never be seen in the case of visiting. I trust that also include the second reason, he
lies on the very natural desire that I experience, to make that the work I have been called upon
to write, be as complete as possible. If I am familiar all details pertaining to the provinces
of Moxos, Chiquitos, Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra and Yuracares, I am very far from having all
the data I wanted on the departments Chuquisaca, La-Paz, Cochabamba,
Potosi, Oruro and Tarija.

Doi as principle to the work of the interior provinces hoping that I get, for its publication,
by the active cooperation of so many men have trained as Bolivia, the indispensable of my particular
observations.

In order to bring forth a more complete work, I make today a general appeal to Bolivian patriotism, asking:

Documents
1, ancient or modern about the story, consisting, as in manuscripts, and in notes containing
precise data on the changes of government under Spanish rule during the wars of independence, or
after the glorious battle of Ayacucho.

2 ° Advice on the ancient remains of the civilization of the Indians,
all objects of those times, such as vases, weapons, ornaments, etc..
Must be attached some notes on the state and other circumstances in
which these objects may have been collected.

3 ° partial or general descriptions of provinces, cities and towns, and finally all data pertaining
to the geography, statistics, agriculture and to the products of the different regions.

4 ° Details specified on all mines, and the benefit or advantage, gold, silver, tin, copper, lead,
etc. Mineral samples, in order to make chemical analysis and to indicate, according to the current
metallurgical knowledge of Europe, whether to apply new methods of tillage. Finally, all documents
concerning the management and wealth veins, and ancient and modern products mines.

5 ° I even dare to claim, among the objects belonging to the three kingdoms, those could make any
useful result, or interesting to the curious by nature, forms and colors.

Meanwhile take care during the course of the work, provided in the relevant register pages, the names
of all those who have earned public recognition, provide me with any information, or ancient artifacts
and natural history.

In this I respect that from now on be allowed to appoint Don Antonio Acosta, who has been
good enough to give me very valuable documents on the provinces of
Esquivel, Doll, of Caupolican and many other parts of the republic.

Helped because of the generous and enlightened participation of all
Bolivians love their country, I have no doubt that my efforts will
be crowned to making this work on Bolivia, is a national monument
worthy of the stupendous wealth of this beautiful part of the continent
American.

* * * * *

Having to make use of a language not mine, should lend their cooperation in the this literary work,
the young Bolivian DON RICARDO BUSTAMANTE, which recommend application
most particularly to the consideration of his countrymen, in attention
to the noble desire encourages him to serve his country.

DESCRIPTION GEOGRAPHIC, HISTORICAL AND STATISTICAL BOLIVIA

BENI DEPARTMENT [1].

There are cases where the political independence of a people has a
significant impact on progress the progressive civilization.

When Moxos by egemplo, a distance of over two hundred leagues Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra, belonged
to the department of that name, was no doubt condemned to being unable to leave their stationary
condition, sufficient for it solely on the fact not communicate with
another point but with its capital, which made both their needs, the
abundance of their resources, were completely ignored by the government.

To change This lamentable state of things, to cut abuses and implement a remedy for many ills
to use, in short, substantial assets with which nature has endowed this province General Don
José Ballivian, current president of the republic, took the party to form it under the name
of Beni, a separate department, meeting with the territories of Caupolican and Yuracares.

The
creation of this department in 1842, is one of the many measures that announce country's entry
into the path of progress, while the burning zeal for the good general,
encouraging his current government.

Accretion of the intrinsic value of a people, and enhances their own eyes is certainly giving
a new existence, it is necessary to instill the spirit he can leave
his fatal numbness, and move quickly towards the improvements of every
kind.

       They hoped that similar projections will not pass away, and that
these three regions, which were reduced to a half savage state, are
today the new department of Beni, molt entirely of condition: I, for
my part, I trust it more so, because, for the next opening of his
voyage to Europe, for its iron mines, and a thousand other natural
resources that characterize these three provinces have become indispensable,
the center large commercial speculations, and perhaps the most significant
industry focus that will Bolivia.

Beni holds in its division, that vast area of ??plains and mountains that make up the northern
extremity of the republic.

Under an oblong shape, this surface, which goes from northeast to
southeast, is limited to the west and north-west in Guancané provinces
and Carabaya belonging to Peru and to the north, following the ancient
border with Brazil, in the Beni River reunion with the Mamore, as
10 degrees latitude South: limit then serve him during the Mamore
to its confluence with the Guapore as well as the course of this,
heading toward its headwaters, to the extent that Green river waters
deposited therein.

Leaving the border of Brazil, the department is separated from the province of Chiquitos (which
falls within the department of Santa-Cruz-de-la-Sierra) and also in the province of Santa Cruz,
by a fictitious line, crossing places inhabited the south and southeast part of the plains of
Moxos.

The slope of the Cordillera Oriental of the provinces of Valle Grande and the department Cochabamba
as limited to the south and southeast, and, later, the river of Mocetenes: Finally, the mountains
north of Dolls are set it apart from the provinces of Yungas Dolls and belonging to the Department
of La-Paz [1].

Circumscribed because of the way we just saw, the department of Beni,
covers oblonga as of twenty thousand square leagues (to twenty-five
of the degree of surface area) covered between 64 and 73 degrees west
longitude meridian of Paris, and between 10 and 16 south latitude.

This area comprises the east and north, vast plains bathed by many navigable rivers, all tributaries
of the River Madeira, and therefore the Amazon River and the west or southwest through the mountains
of the eastern of the Cordilleras, mountains, which are always covered
with the most prodigious vegetation the world.

This department is divided into three provinces: the Caupolican, which occupies the north-west
line, in the mountains and plains that are at the foot, the country of Yuracaré, which is not
only a continuation South of these mountains and plains, the Moxos, finally, that only includes the
plain the northeast. Distinguishing these three districts on many points, I give them separately,
a fairly detailed description.

BENI DEPARTMENT

CAUPOLICAN province [1].

Division and extent.

As I have said, Caupolican province occupies the north-west of the department including between 10
and 16 degrees south latitude and between 70 and 73 western longitude Paris meridian. She
is an oblong area, north-northeast directed to sudsudoeste, which has one hundred twenty miles
long sea, and over sixty wide, taking the term medium. This area is also, more or less, of six
thousand two hundred and fifty leagues square, twenty-degree [2].

Limits.

The boundaries of the province Caupolican are: to the south, the transverse chain of mountains,
separates the province of Dolls (Department of La-Paz), on the west and southwest, the great
Eastern Cordillera, which clearly limited by the provinces of Guancané
and Carabaya (Republic of Peru), towards the north, it has no limit
on the side Brazil and Peru, which the vast deserts still unknown,
and inhabited only by some savage tribes, and finally, the course
of the Beni River bounded on the east by the Moxos.

Mountains.

Caupolican province is one of the more curious in its in mountainous terrain.