 I went to the corner because I sent him
my matador. "Nah, you know what a gang? Same thing that ejérsito: disiplina and servility. The matador
rules, and must obedeser. As the bulls this is the time of the Inquisition, and no more reasionario
Ofisi.

- Clown! - Called Mrs. Angus -. Bueno are you with these fables toas Inquisition and reasionable!
Among toos are killing this probesita, who spends his days dodging
tears as Dolorosa.

You you want to cover the terns of my son, because it gives you to eat.

- Nah, you said it, Sena Sorrows; Juaniyo me to eat, that is. And as I get to eat, I have that
obedeserle ... But Nah, you come here, madam, please me. I designed my matador that must go
to the corner ... Bueno. That Dirna when I am in a otomóvil matron
pretty mu ... What we haserle?

The matador rules. Aemás, I was not alone.

Also Stew was, who is a person of Argun Eda and respect, even if a brute. Never laughs.

The torero's mother was angry with this excuse.

- Stew! A bad man who should not yevar Juaniyo in his squad if he had vergüensa. Do not talk about
that drunkard who beats his wife and has starved the boys.

- Bueno: Out stew ... Matron aqueya say I saw, what would hase? There was a hussy; is the niece
der Marquis, a supporter of the teacher, and bullfighters Nah, you know to be right with people
who can. Der must live audience. What's wrong with this? ... Aluego, in farm er, na! Nah, you swear
it by my own: na! Bueno pa me take this owl although I send him my matador! I am a desente,
Sena Sorrows, and hase Nah, you wrong in yamarme that ugly to me
endenantes Yamao.

By the life of Dove ... When is the committee and come to consult
with one elecsiones day, and council and have CHOCAO this diputaos
Nah, you go hand here, you can haser deserts papers?

... I repeat, na. Nah, you are talking about, same as Nah, you and I. Every one spent the night
by Lao-not a bad look, no word ugly. Desensia a toas hours ... And if Potaje Nah, you would
like to come, he would say ...

But Carmen cut him off with a plaintive voice cut by sighs.

- In my house! - Moaning with a puzzled expression -. In the farmhouse!

... Eya and lay down in my bed! ... I knew it too, and cayaba, cayaba! ... But this! Joshua! This
is not in toa Seviya a man who dares to so much! ...

The National kindly intervened. Quiet, Carmen. If that did not matter! A visit to the country
estate of an enthusiastic woman teacher, who wanted to see up close how he lived in the field. These
ladies foreign media are always whimsical and weird.

For if it had seen the French, when he was a gang fight in Nimes and Arles! ...

- Total, na. Too ... "Liquid"! Man, the blue dove! Cones would like to desahogao which came with
the breath. Juaniyo Yo, if it was arguia der farm, put him in the door; and if outside the
Juesas pa yamaba you get into the Carsel a liar and evil enemy.

Carmen was still crying, without listening to the angry expressions of banderillero, while Mrs
Angus, sitting in an armchair, which will ball up against his boundless
obesity, frowned and pressed his mouth and rough hairy.

- Caya, Sebastian,
and do not lie - said the old woman -.

I know too. A spree on such a trip indesente the farmhouse, a party
of gypsies. Through design that was with you Plumitas the thief.

Here
the National jumped, driven by surprise and concern. He thought that
entered in the courtyard, trampling the slabs of marble, a poorly
sketched rider, wearing a hat filthy and dismounted from his horse,
pointing a rifle and talkative and fearful. Then it seemed see tricorn,
tricorn many bright rubber, mustached mouths and inquisitive, hands
writing, and all the crew, dressed in costumes, tied side by side,
road prison. Here there had to be vigorously denied.

- "Liquid!"
Too "liquid"! What's Plumitas Nah, you speak? There was no more than
desensia