 

Not killed by it, but Werther was the price of his redemption and his life. Poetry saved him. That
tremendous and passionate novel, rather than the poet Goethe is always objective, that is put
out of his work, judging and sentencing her characters without sharing their losses, The move leaving
him still, as the first heaven moves the other areas, also contains its protagonist to another Goethe,
passionate and vehement, that Goethe achieved critical and severe stop at the edge of the abyss.

In
other friendly or loving relationships with women, Goethe always
shows passion, not calculation; fire and not cold, tenderness and
unselfishness.

The teacher's wife reproached him his youthful Boehme compositions, amend and pruned mercilessly,
and was persuaded after they were bad and made him burn. What power and authority must not exercise
a woman on a poet to force a sacrifice? Schönkopf Catalina broke with Goethe, not the cold
but because tormented with jealousy. Ana Isabel Sohönmann Goethe inspires the beautiful compositions
A Lili and perhaps it is she who leaves him. The Baroness of Goethe gave Stein a spiritual worship
of friendship and esteem, and, since all the enjoyment of her celebrity made her a judge of merit of
their works and some inspiring. Finally, if Goethe was fascinated by Cristiana Volpius, and lived
together with her immoral and scandalous, amended after the offense, getting married. His
idea Love, coupled with the duty of the holy life and respectable home, and everything beautiful
that can enclosed in two stocks humble and honest, remains forever in the purest romances, in
his poem Hermann and Dorothea, which also left us a sincere expression of German patriotism, then
severely humiliated by the Napoleonic conquests.

We have said that does not concern us write here the life of Goethe.

Suffice it quickly pointed to dispel unfounded blame.

Give him worship his clear intelligence and its other powers, but should not be censored applaud.
It is a duty to take care of the talents that God entrusts to us. Otherwise, no gain nothing
for them or dispel them badly, is an act of ingratitude and betrayal of trust.

Goethe was able to fulfill this duty required intellectual garments. His insatiable always arouses
curiosity led him to study and learn everything: fine arts, literature how many people have had
it or have it, life sciences, theology, philosophy and even magic
and other occult sciences.

His mind was enriched with all sorts of knowledge.

And not only studied and learned in books, but in the bosom of nature and the revolt current
of human life.

His long life, his untiring activity, his inexhaustible fertility make the whole his work is
great and varied. It was a lyric poet, epic, dramatic and didactic novelist philosopher, botanist,
zoologist, philologist, author of letters and memoirs, works of aesthetic
and archeology, and just seems to be a subject on which not to leave
something written.

The Naturalists will always be placed in very high place to write the annals of science; and
philosophers to write their own history, they can not be forgotten.

Goethe followed with deep penetration and with keen interest the great
philosophical movement, which verified in Germany during his lifetime.

Preserving their independence, appropriated ideas about and others, as more suited to the nature
of his thought, but coordinating them in it, and giving them the unique stamp of his person.

On the dazzling spell of any new system, from Kant to Hegel, Goethe
put his critically high, its judicious skepticism a so-called common
sense, because more was rare and exquisite, some Leibnizian theories
and a deep-rooted religious feelings never so much season left in
disbelief, and so much fermentation and flourish new metaphysical.

Goethe believed in God, but his natural inclination led him to seek, not the center of soul, but
pouring out the soul in nature, where God revealed to him. It was therefore more Theosophist
than mystical. That tended more toward the doctrines of Bruno, of Spinoza, and Schelling,
who to those of Fichte, but in the same way that did not stir up sensationalism never, until
think that the reality of things and the impression they make on us can be to give science, common
sense also agreed never to give credence to the creation of reality for the ideal. Supports
both, and vaguely enters on a method called empiricism intellectual
intuition which exercises the office of the observation of the sensual
and idealistic speculation.

Hegel attracts and repels at the same time our poet. I love the eternal development of the idea,
and his conscience rejects perpetual change, and thought it came from and born most of the least
conscious of the unconscious, being not-being. To affirm their mind the existence of a personal
God and the immortality of the soul, returns with a love of monads
of Leibnitz.

God appears to him the eternal and infinite cute. The human soul, a monad upper and indestructible,
but limited.

The moral of Goethe is too lenient, but not for relaxation but for
goodness itself, and firm belief in the divine goodness and human
frailty.

Goethe's God is soft, indulgent and benign, and sometimes almost a merit of the error in the man who
errs, it errs on that sucks.

Pacific, a lover of order, enemy of rudeness, every revolution an event like Goethe awesome. The
horrors of France is outraged and terrified.

And yet, this conservative, this friend of the legitimate powers and fair, has faith in freedom and progress,
and includes the rebellion against tyranny and believes in no time from any government tyrannical
and violent.

His thirst for religion is great and perpetual. It creates a natural
religion and not enough.

Without faith in Christianity, dreams of new positive religion. Maybe pretend intermediate monads
among which are human souls and that is God, and these cuties go geniuses, elemental spirits,
demiurge, mysterious and hidden intelligences which move the stars, who give life to plants,
which are the very nature of personality and consciousness.

Sometimes leans Goethe this path to a flamboyant neo-Platonism and spiritualized paganism, sometimes
becomes forward in faith to the doctrine of Christ and the Gospels and read earnestly pious books.

His
doctrines on aesthetics, according to its basic philosophy with the natural condition v of
his mind, have no small claim in the history of this new science,
and prepare major reform and the development Schiller conducted under
the auspices and according to the footsteps of Kant.

Diderot and Winkelmann are the two authors who exert influence on the theories of Goethe art,
and have more to do with them. Goethe owes more, however, with their own feelings and thinking,
enlightened, since his trip to Italy, by the intelligent and earnest contemplation of the artistic
treasures and privileged in that beautiful country is preserved.

Goethe, who at first had been romantic, like the romance was then understood in their nation, and
as shown by his two major works written before going to Italy, Werther and Berlichingen Goetz
returned from there completely classical, but classic their way, and not with the sensuality
of French classicism. Its classicism is a term midway between the fashionable in France, and the new
German romanticism, while more informed high ideas that do not compromise, but synthesis.

Goethe does not want mere imitation, nor pure fantasy and freedom,
but both powers linked, each of which exercises born one way, while
the union of two appropriate style.

By imitating himself, called imitator, who invented without imitating, ghost. The true artist
and poet, are those who invent imitation.

The characteristic, which should enter any work of art, gives the imitation is like the skeleton,
the frame or canvas of the work, and life, muscles, blood, color, embroidery, then come by fantasy.
The combination of these things is born beauty. Meticulous artist, cartoonist and mean dry is
one that mimics only: report author sketches the only fantasize:
perfection lies in fantasizing and copy at a time.

In the beauty of nature is diffuse and mixed germ, is also itching, as desire to be increasingly
clean and completely.

It must remove the artist, choosing the best and ugly aside, but even given this extracting
operation, the beauty is not created, but it embodies and individually in a sensitive way.
The aspiration of the artist and poet's ideal, but ideal individual must be the same time. The
purpose of art is to represent all in one, and express the infinite in finite form.

Goethe rejected, under this doctrine, the doctrine, the division,
then as in fashion of Christian and pagan art.

For him there is more than an art, whose fund, whose substance for infinite and sublime I would
assume, must enter and comply with number and extent and accuracy and precision within a limited
and individual.

Imitation looking through the things the main idea, the original idea, which they impurely done,
and art should be the most pure. In this sense artistically superior to nature. It is also because
of the artistic moves away everything irrelevant and insignificant in nature is mixed. Moreover,
for Goethe Art has its own end: the creation of beauty. It is true that in this creation is implied
an end, moral and social, very useful and beneficial, what Aristotle
called purification of passion: what Goethe called the rescue, redemption
or freedom.

It is evident that the characteristic, which is taken by imitating nature, can and often be painful
passion, action-packed mayhem and grief, which in reality hurts, wounds, kills or pain, rather
than causing pleasure. Art, to reproduce and to transform, change in contentment bitterness and
despair becalmed. So terror and pity become feeling happy, full of
ineffable sweetness.

This change is due to start softening of beauty, grace, symmetry, order and measure of form.
Hence, for Goethe, the ideal type of art in sculpture, was not Apollo, but the Laocoon, where pain,
compassion, and horror are softened by the grace of beauty, to the point trocar in sovereign
and peaceful enjoyment.

Under this principle, Goethe unfortunate release of their passions, memories that brought him more grief,
desires most tormented him and even his remorse, taking them for the object of his observation,
making them a matter of imitation, looking at them the characteristic, and going after the
powerful imagination to embroider on that trace first a poem, a legend or a drama, a work of
poetry, which left him comforted and free, and should have over other men the same beneficent influence
exerted on him.

In this sense it could secure and Goethe said that all his works of imagination were fragments
of their confessions. It was therefore subjective poet, if attended to, by declaration own, no one
of his fables, which is not part of his autobiography, and objective that he himself gave as
an object of observation, and with another independent self, created work, judged and condemned
to their heroes, and acquitted at the end or at least comforting balm heaven, with wonderful
soothing poetic beauty.

This soothing and cleansing under art beautiful or sublimating is achieved when the object of passion
or action, provided to be sublimated or beautiful.

When not supplied, the art is another resource: the comic or the ridiculous. For example, a
belly ache or toothache, the simplicity that is left cheat, fear not having enough money, illness,
being ugly and sickly and other things in the same order, have no poetry, no more comfort than
laughter, while not pass of lower degree. When you go in that grade, and played in the tragedy,
are poor representations artistic, because they are passions, defects
and doped pains not to embellish.

No produce and the comic, no less pathetic, but the deformed and nasty and disgusting; realism
deplorable that today have the drama and the novel. Nothing further from the true poetry the
hungry, the beggar, the consumptive or hunchback. These are impurities of the real, poetry or
tragic or the comic can find comfort. Us seek comfort in charity, and the remedy in science,
so far as possible.

Such, in brief, was the man, and such the main items of the man who conceived and produced FAUSTO
poem.

FAUSTO the idea of ??always accompanied him, was a major concern of his life. Its realization understands
full well his whole life. Goethe in his first youth begins to write Faust, in his extreme old age,
eighty years, when he finished, or rather, not End time: even after his death leaves pieces,
Chronicles, which belong to Faust, who are part of the great posthumous poem.

Goethe the same energy to get rid of his characters, although out
of his own and to be passionate and moving, he remained impassive
and serene, I did prefer the narrative poem, a more objective, impersonal
yet perfect: the drama.

In the drama the vanishes completely poet's personality. The characters just feel, suffer, move and carry
out the action.

Dramas understanding, as the epics of which we speak to begin with, it had already given in history
of poetry.

What else was the Prometheus of Aeschylus, Goethe sought the to write back and actually wrote
pieces that remarkable?

Furthermore, regardless of material difficulties, counting stagehand and painter with exuberant
designer and flying imagination building within the limitless space an ideal theater, where fit heaven,
hell and all creation, and provide a company of actors, where there are angels, devils, mermaids,
elves, Oberon, Titania, Ariel, Olympian gods, gods underground, all
the blessed of the heavenly court, the Eternal Father, the Virgin
Mary, witches, monkeys and cats, and even stars, rivers, mountains,
and earthquakes that speech and action, Strait dramatic picture expands
to fill the immensity and everything fits in it comfortably.

This does not mean, however, that Faust, as a whole, is so large that can not be represented. Even
to read is difficult. The synthesis of the work is not covered as well as you want. Let us imagine
Olio a table at half a league long. It would be necessary, or see him from afar with a telescope,
RIEF walking or on horseback, at full gallop, to preserve the impression of what had painted
on one end when the other end is reached.

Do not be surprised, then, that waver on the method we have to continue
to give an idea of FAUSTO, and finally we decide to do a split.

Consider first the drama Faust as simple as human drama, that is, not see in him but the first half,
discarding anything that justifies it, calls and requires the creation the second. And let's
talk after the second part, and everything that makes FAUSTO a mysterious poem, encyclopedic and philosophical
claims or archi-deep realities.

From now on we will close all books, FAUSTO least the same, and to issue our Apparently, without being
guided by anyone. Let us just say that the views of critics are diverse and even found, and
that foreigners are often the most enthusiastic commended the second part, as Blaze de Bury
and Lerminier, while some critics and historians German German literature, of great note, such
as Gervinus and Kurz, no estimate the second part, reaching out to an unjust severity with her,
and even see it fall. Comparing Goethe Milton, say the first is the second FAUSTO FAUSTO what
Paradise Lost to Paradise regained.

Adopting, for now, the comparison, let's start with Paradise Lost.

Goethe did not invent the good sense and character matter for drama: the people gave created.
The legend of Faust was popular not only in Germany but in other European countries. His sets and
adventures were depicted in puppet theaters, fairs and markets, and loved the people. Assert
poets had already tasted the case and the legendary character, and had tried to write or had
written dramas on FAUSTO. Lessing had left the illustrious started a FAUSTO, in drama.

If we ignore the name and the historical foundation of the character,
that is the center of the legend, the legend is still much more popular,
oldest and best known and applauded in all the towns Christians. No
nation in Europe where there is no history scholar who is tired of
studying without honor or profit, to deny knowledge, which does not
give you enjoyment, and that excited by rage, by disappointments,
by ambition or thirst of delight, just do pact with the devil, to
have fun and have money, and what we now call position, although then
have to pay it all in the depths of hell. Sage, in effect, sports
worship the devil that serves him well: and finally, through the intercession
of a saint, or goodness the Virgin Mary, or the infinite mercy of
God, mocked the enemy often leaves bad and manages to go to heaven.
In our literature we have this legend in Las Cantigas of King Alonso,
and Gonzalo Berceo, and something like that gives matter to Calderon
for his famous comedy The prodigious magical.

The issue was very
well chosen and could not be better for Goethe, who was a sage as
Faust, and that while more fortunate, have had, like all scientists,
not a few moments of bitterness in that despair of pedants, and wanting
to teach others what they themselves do not know, and doubt the worth
and utility of his writings, and exclaim mimicking Doña Mariquita
pearls .-- If I cry, that is, if I had money, would not need to write
nonsense, - and are in addition often prompted to be the devil if
the devil you take the trouble to take them and buy the soul