 The bark is white, similar to those of
the walnut. The result is a beer and a half span, and some two feet long. Have in large grains
such as beans, grains and between some pulp black, used to purge soft, and is sold in pharmacies.
The color of the cane, while ripe, is black as the pulp.

Taruma tree is a species of wild olive. The same size as that of the olive trees with little difference,
and even the leaf is not very different. The icing is like small olives, and has his blood like olives.
The Paraguayans eat this fruit, but I found it bland. It would be good to test whether it can be very
useful oil, and even if ignited in the Tarumas olive grafts.

* * *

§.

IV.

Cuyabá facilities and Mattogroso.

The city of Cuiaba, according to some Portuguese maps, is at 14 degrees and 20 minutes south latitude,
and as inferred from the length that was found the mouth of Xaurú, and distance is of Cuiaba, we
can put this city in 322 degrees of longitude, counting del Fierro, with a short difference.
Its situation is on the east of the river called Cuiaba, which to
lead in the Porrudos, runs north to south, and navigate to the Cuyabá
port, a distance of two to three miles from the city.

In the northern part extends for many miles the great mountains, where
they have their origin the two mighty rivers Paraná and Paraguay.

And just for the north, down to the Topayos Marañon rivers, Xingu, rio de Dos Bocas, Tocantins
and others.

In the southern part of Cuyabá be stretched for many leagues the wetlands of Xarayes: from so
that this part can not enter into the city but by the stream. Nor is it possible that otherwise you
can pass people on foot or on horseback. In times of heavy rains flooded almost all the space
of sixty miles from north to south, and about the same from east to west, that between the river
and the mountains of Porrudos Cuyabá, and may at this time through Cuyabá boats from the river
Paraguay, without getting to the Porrudos, but dry weather Cuyabá are reduced and Paraguay
rivers to their narrow and deep channels. And although the intermediate space are many gaps, or
there is no communication, or not been discovered so far, where you can go through in straight from
a river to the other.

Therefore, for sailing time from Cuiaba to Xaurú dry, and go to Mattogroso, are the Portuguese
need to give a great back, down the river of Porrudos, and for this the river Paraguay, by
which to climb back over sixty miles to the mouth of Xaurú.

On the east side has Cuyabá many Indian lands inhabited only infidels: and although there is
no way to go through this part of Brazil, is the way very long, very
laborious and esponse to the assaults of the barbarians and the black
rebels.

For these reasons there are few The Portuguese who undertake the journey by land. The great
distance from Brazil, and laborious the road make the horses and mules in Cuyabá be sold at prices
very deep: it is sell an ordinary horse in a hundred pesos, and a mule in two hundred.

To the west, from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, be stretched some mountains, which are branches of the
great mountain or mountain range that we discussed earlier. The Portuguese led the way for these mountains,
to have communication with those of Mattogroso: but laborious way, and only for ordinary people
used to temper the climate unhealthy.

The city of Cuiaba no wall, or artillery, or a fortification, for the wetlands of the Xarayes,
and the neglect of the Spanish total, judge fairly defended.

Only the guard of Captain General, and to defend the infidel Indians, maintain a company of
soldiers paid to fifteen dollars per month. From these various departments are. Twelve in two
prisons to the frontier of the infidels: twelve others in a war canoe serves to escort the
boats that sail to St. Paul, and the remaining twenty, are in Cuiaba, and they are all defending
the city.

The number of people of all castes come to five thousand people, of which only a small number
are free, others, or slaves, or taken and treated as such, because Except for little more
than two hundred people who will find white people, the others, many
are black and mulattoes, and mestizos many Indians, who are treated
by the Portuguese like slaves: for, though only to the actual ordinance
and to those of Payaguá other nation can make slaves, but those parts
are served any Portuguese Indians who can catch, and keep them in
slavery. The Indians Cuyabá by more immediate the north are the Paresis
and Barbudos: they never give to the Portuguese, for either have to
overcome, or are to be killed in the fray