 To conclude soon, even with a scratch.

At that time the jokes ended and broke fellowship.

Count lit a cigarette pure calmly and said the most natural:

- So
long, gentlemen.

Had an effective part of value in that calm attitude, unflappable Count, but was also a good
portion of effort and study. The wild young, but highly unlikely literature generally, but received
no influence. What are including private the serialized novels and games. These, novels draw
the ideal figure of a man so same as the books of chivalry. Only in the old novels, the man
sampler was that for the sake of the noble ideas of justice and charity companies rushing over
forces. In modern is the fear of ridicule fails to enthusiastically and every generous action.
The man who risked his life at all times for a cause useful to their peers, which has been
replaced by the nonadas risk of vanity or pride.

The gentleman has happened the swordsman.

The coterie commenting abode of Count serenity. He praised but not very strongly or too long. It is
the first rule of good taste not ever wonder. The second speaking of things neatly mild and severe
sobriety. Deshízose at last get-together evening. They left almost all their illustrious members,
and spread spread Madrid its doctrines, which can be summarized thus: "Man is born destined
to sign twisted whiskers notes and spend.

The work, instruction, order, are prejudicial the state of nature and should be outlawed in all
well-organized society. "

Ramon Maldonado, as ever, clung to the skirts of his friend Pepe Castro. The reader is already
aware of the profound admiration he professed. Now it is know that Pepe Castro was left to admire
full of condescension, and occasionally deigned to introduce him some ineffable secrets relating
to their highest conceptions of English mares and Amber nozzles. Ramon was slowly becoming
clear notions not only of these things, but also the most appropriate way to combine the French
language with Spanish in the family conversation. Pepe Castro had the wonderful gift of forgetting,
at any given time, the Spanish word, and after some hesitation pronounce the perfect French
naturally. Ramon also did, but with less elegance. Distinction was also pretty good Arcachon
oysters of non-Basin, the Chateau-Laffite's Château Margaux, the chest voice, the tenor, the
head voice, and toothpaste of Akinson of the other toothpastes. However, Ramon, like all neophytes,
much more if they have an excited and enthusiastic temperament, he exaggerated the doctrine
of the master. Be an example of this exaggerated shirt collars. Because the high costs Pepe
Castro and tight "Ramon was no reason why he wandered through the streets of God with the language
out, suffering all day preliminary garrotted? And if Pepe Castro, because of a neurological disorder
which had had as a child, closed his left eye often which undoubtedly graced him, what went
right on the winking Ramoncito People with yours? In addition, the young councilman perfume
carried not only the tissue and beard, but all their clothes, so that even went beyond ten meters
and produced about dizziness. Well, after careful consideration, we have not found in the ideas
of revered master no justification for this reprehensible trend. The most beautiful and lofty precepts
of great men, degenerate and pervert to be among followers and followers. Pepe Castro, but warned
these shortcomings and imperfections of his disciple, not the reproached. Before, with the
nobility's own great characters, he lay on his mercy to forgive and hide. Nobody dared in his
presence, mock necks or the twinkle of Ramon.

It was just four when both of the club went wild buttoning gloves. The door was the charrette de Castro,
giving it fired the driver for hours ride. Prior should make a visit to pray for Ramon. They
walked along Prince Street, where the club is located, slowly, watching intently to the women
crossing. Deteníanse sometimes a moment to make some bright signs on their grace and elegance,
not as the timid passer who contemplates and sighs, but as two pashas to fall within a slave market
before choosing and discuss the qualities of each. Men arrojábanles a scornful glance. And
if that was not enough were wrapped in a strong puff of smoke to make them aware that they, Pepe
and Ramon, belonged to a world higher, and that if they walked down the street from the Prince
was only momentary whim. Whenever you condescend to walk a little walk between streets and now
in the expression of face had a tinge of surprise that his step was not welcomed by the crowd with
rumors of admiration.

Maldonado was more loquacious than his friend.

On what was coming and expressed his opinion raising the smiling face toward Castro. This remained
serious, solemn, answering in monosyllables and appropriate grunts. Let's say that Ramon was much
lower than his master, not only moral but also physically. When walking on foot represented truly
the wise one teacher who is leaving drip the stream of his science, the other a fiery newcomer
eager to learn and penetrate it covers his eyes.

- Where are we going? - Casually asked Castro to reach all four streets.

- Man, we had not stayed married for Calderon's house? - Said shyly
and slightly disgruntled Ramon.

- Ah! yes, I forgot.

Councilman Young Greasy silence, admiring in his heart that singular power to forget all that
had his friend.

And followed by the Carrera de San Jerónimo hguardoa Puerta del Sol

- How are you with Esperanza? - Deigned to ask Castro, releasing a
puff of smoke and stopping to look at a showcase.

Ramon suddenly turned serious, almost, almost pale, and began to babble stumbled:

- So, boy .... As soon as the top and bottom .... Some days I find it very nice ... ie, friendly, no,
but less talkative. Others with a nose three yards: leaves when I enter, just answer the greeting,
as if he had offended .... I understand that some have had reason to be angry. Real soil in
the box go to Gamboa, and I think he has it in his head .... I like Rosaura For you see what
nonsense! Rosa! ... But at least one month does not go up to greet ... and the same, the same kid,
same! ... The other day I could catch one in the cabinet a few moments, and I have hastily
said he wanted to know what stayed. Because you see, not a thing to be doing Bear forever .... I
listened patiently .... I warn you that I was completely taken and hardly knew what she was
saying. When I finished he said he had no reason to be angry and ran into the room. After that
who had not understood that was the case fixed? Let's see, either in my case do not think we
were going to enter the field formality? ... Nothing, after two days I go there, try to talk separately
as Groom and gives me a snort that froze me .... And so I am.

I do not know if I want or if you leave loving me, and I have peace of mind to pursue my chores
and do nothing but think in that damn girl.

- I think - said Castro while carefully consider the window against
which were - that this girl I had taken the action.

Ramon looked surprised and respectful at the same time.

- How the
action - he ventured to ask.

- Yes, the action.

What is important in any fight, is to take the action to the contrary. If when he thinks you attack
you attack with determination, it is almost certain to arrive. If hesitate are lost.

As he uttered the last words he left to contemplate the window and
continued his majestic march the sidewalk.

Ramon did the same.

Had misunderstood the application that could have this simile started to fencing where appropriate,
but refrained from asking for explanations.

- So you think ...?

- I think you're too in love with this girl and she knows it.

- But let's see, Joe, what reasons may have to reject me? - Began to say sulphide Ramon and as
if speaking to himself -. What do you expect this girl? ... His father have money, but will give away
several brothers. Mariana is young, and when least thought has begun to take over the world children.
Besides, you know how Julian. Before we will release fourth strips. And frankly, expect to die
I do not think business. I'm not a tycoon, but I have regular fortune, which is mine now,
without waiting for nobody dies .... I can provide the same amenities you have in your home and
the same luxury ... more luxurious - added shaking his head with
reasonable resolution - .Luego, I have to before a political career.

Does she know if one of these days I will not be undersecretary or director? My family is better
than yours: my grandfather was a shopkeeper and father of D. Julian
.... Then, there is a god or anything, one of those girls that draw
attention, you know you?

Why so much fuss made when I am who I please? Do you know who has the guilt? For Cobo Ramirez
and other babieca like him, who have filled the head wind .... No doubt the stupid expected to
come a prince of royal blood to get it! ...

Ramon denied beauty to your beloved.

It is a sign of being deeply and sincerely in love man, not the daughter of his love vanity.
Too much love drew him to injury.

Castro mused that perhaps the fact of being a bit gawky and have the
full skin freckles, influence to succeed his friend did not flattering
in this as in other companies he had undertaken, but failed to show
such suspicion.

Preferred seating, closing eyes and blowing cigar smoke, this general truth:

- The girls are very stupid.

Ramon, in accordance with it in principle, insisted, however, determined by application more
or less legitimate.

- It's a fool! ... Do not know herself what she wants .... Do you
think it may take the realm of formality someday?

This is the realm of formality was a phrase that the professed predilection Councilman Young.
Whenever talking about came from her lips Esperancita three or four
times, as necessarily be associated with his love.

Pepe Castro felt discomfort unspeakable winked his left eye endlessly.

In fact, never liked ideas anticipate future events. Rider was a prophet. But in this case doubly
repugnant because they could announce gloomy his friend and admirer. Engagement took him out
of the appearance of a beautiful and elegant dress that came to meet
them on the sidewalk of Main.

- Here is the Amparo - said with a
dismissive and contemptuous severity Ramoncito admired.

Salabert's mistress came to them smiling, greeting them warmly, particularly
Pepe Castro.

This squeezed her hand without losing its gravity or remove the nozzle
from the teeth, like a comrade who was just seen at the cafe.

- Where
are you going, rascals?

- For home Calderon to spend time.

- Come
with me.

I'm buying a jeweler. Help me to choose ... and I will pay.

He spoke cheerfully affectionate, not the same creature seemed bland and bad mood we have seen
in his small hotel in the neighborhood of the monastery.

Clearly, all the bad humor reserved for Salabert.

- This is good! - Said Castro deigning to smile slightly -.

Do we ask ourselves jewelry when you're at home Salabert pocket? Put your hand on it, silly.

-
I do, son. Neglected.

- Well, you could protect a poor little Manolo, who walks in darkness long ago.

- Poor thing! But really that bad of dosh goes?

I thought it was just the head.

- That is: laugh after you've plucked.

- Hey, kid: I have never plucked, for one simple reason: when he came into my possession and
did not have feathers - Amparo said getting serious.

- It is not true that. Manolo you spent more than forty thousand dollars.

- Have you hard! So I looked at my hair when I got to the door. If takes a while more to do,
I go to San Bernardino to the grand Dumond.

- Well, because he has not spent. What me?

"- Said the gallant Pepe shrugging his shoulders -. Want to come to dinner with us today Fornos?

-
Who?

- With this and with me.

We will also invite Leon and Rafael to carry Nati and Socorro. Do you have any objection to go
Manolo?

- On the contrary, my son, if you want Manolo more than you imagine!

- Well you had better give occasionally a conference close, otherwise I'm afraid soon have to
take the asylum.

- Do not think that is always in my hand.

The other guy is very escamón. Real after it? Do not take me more people. The noise does not suit
me now that I am well placed do you know? Up later. Hey, ugly - addressing Ramon - why do not
you speak?

I already have said they want marry the girl of Calderón .... Well
son, you are hideous and ugly as she whipped a Christ, you are going
to throw some kids that will have to teach in a shack.

Goodbye, Pepe: do not forget the anchovies. You know I do not eat dinner without them. Bye.

Ramon had turned red with anger at hearing to deal with such contempt for his beloved, without
mind that a moment before he had done the same.

And I would have lashed out at the Amparo insolence any fat, if it had not been away without
noticing little or much in distress it caused. Contented with a little murmur ominously grinding
teeth:

- I think I'll get I have no shame!

The encounter with the mistress of Salabert at the time that he was in the most climactic of his
confidences, he had disturbed, and therefore had not taken off his lips. Hastened to knot the
thread where it had broken, asking his friend and teacher:

- Let's
see, Joe: you in my case what would you do?

Castro walked in silence for a while staring at the balconies of the houses caught no doubt
that people do not come out to see him pass. Then, giving three or four long hickey the cigar
and reflective coating and serious air, replied:

- Men's (pause), I, in your case, principiaría by not being in love.

Love is for fanciulla, not for you and me.

- That's inevitable, Pepe! - Said the council in a sad and miserable state that gave worth seeing.

-
Well, if you can not beat this craziness, it is best not to make it known. Why try Esperancita
persuade that you die for it? Do you think that is good for something?

Procura convince her otherwise and see how much better the result.

- What to do? - Asked anxiously.

- Do not get so tired you manifest, man. Do not be such a melon. Do not go home much. Do not look
with eyes half-slaughter sheep. Bring the opposite when you say something stupid: insinúala
that there are women like you more. Take a bit of tone, and you'll see how the making better-looking
case ....

- I can not, I can not, Pepe! - Ramon said running his hand across
his forehead at the height of Grief -.

At first he was still master of myself, I could talk with ease and flirting with others ....
Today it is impossible! So stunning I have before me, I atortolo, I say more than nonsense. If
I find it particularly bad mood. Each answer leaves me yours ice cream. You can not imagine why
so dismissive tone that girl knows how to draw when he wants. If I try to talk to the other, simply
that I put Hope's smiling face to let her immediately. I have come to spend a month without addressing
just the word, but finally I could not resist any longer and went to surrender. I prefer their
conversation, but abuse me, to all other ....

They were silent as if you walk under the weight of a terrible tragedy.

Pepe Castro meditated.

- You're lost, Ramon - he finally pulling the tip of the cigarette and rubbing the nipple with the tissue
before storing -. You're completely lost. All that you tell me no common sense. Conduct yourself
if you knew you had not reached such a state. Women they are always treated with the tip of
the boot, then go admirably ....

After pouring these brief and profound words, stepped in front of a window.

- Man, look at so beautiful necklace.

If you come well to Perl bought it.

Ramon looked at the collar without seeing it, entirely absorbed in his saddest thoughts.

- Well, yes, Ramoncillo - continued the distinguished wild throwing an arm around the shoulder
- you are lost .... However, I am committed to ensuring that you would hope so you to do what
I said .... Tested my method.

- Rehearse what you want. I want to exit at any cost in this situation - said Councilman moved.

-
Well, look, so you will not go home soon Calderon but eight or ten days .... We will together or
we will be there. You should not be alone: ??In a moment of weakness would miss to lose all
the work.

Speak little hope and much to the girls there are. Procura extol blondes, to high, the white, in
short, women with type opposed to it and be sure to get excited enough.

Bring the contrary, but no hurry much. You are very stubborn and should
not play too much.

A soft and contemptuous tone takes best effect. It is best to look at me from time to time.
I will make a sign with dissimulation: so you will always treading
on firm ....

Yet, before reaching the door of the house of Calderon
Castro had time to enlarge other valuable data with this gallant didascalon
sample of his talent.

Only an intelligence wonderfully perspicuous and utilized together
with long experience, just a refined spirit could penetrate so deeply
into the secret conflict that resistance to devote Hope Ramoncito
his heart, he had created.

At the same time was the only one who could provide a solution satisfactory.

The young councilman came to her beloved home in a state of relative
tranquility.

As for his intimate purposes, we can only say he was determined to
put on a great aspect of dignity and resistance to openly oppose invasive
tendencies Calderón of the girl.

Thought it appropriate to start putting your hands in your pockets and folded lips with a smirk
ironic and protective.

Thus came into the room where the family was gathered wealthy banker,
swinging his head as if he could not because of her countless of thoughts
that kept indoors, the elegant manners of rude manners there more
than a step, as the sublime to the ridiculous.

So we dare not ensure that Ramon, the first stage of his conversation
with Esperanza, it's always kept this side of elegance.

There are some grounds for thinking that it was not so.

What, saving our awareness of true historians can say is that pretty
soon Esperancita time to notice, after warning that it did not cause
the deep impression which was expected.

In the sewing cabinet where introduced, they were embroidering Ms Hope, Mariana and Esperanza.
Or talking with accuracy, which were embroidered Dona Esperanza and Esperanza: Mariana remained
seated in a chair, staring into space in perfect stillness.

Pepe Castro and Ramon were close friends of the family and were received
without ceremony and welcome.

After a few handshakes elusive, with the sole exception of Maldonado
to Esperanza, which was not done intentionally because it was distracted
to give decent start to the large number of slights of any kind that
torment their thought adored acomodáronse in separate chairs.

Mariana alongside Pepe, Ramon with Ms Hope.

Before doing so, the youth council has already had a moment of weakness.

Seeing something Esperancita away from his mother and grandmother thought it was propitious occasion
to have conversation with her secret, and hesitated in taking his
seat there.

Castro A look expressive of him back in agreed.

- Buenos eyes seeing
you, Pepe - Esperanza said, fixing his own, laughing and nothing ugly
in the famous wild.

- Precious are those who are seeing now - Ramon
said quickly.

Castro, before answering, he looked back severely.

The councilman, stunned, said to amenguar a bit his clumsiness:

-
Because this is a family of pretty eyes.

- Thanks, Ramon.

And you begin to be false as all politicians - said Mariana.
- Always righteous, Mariana! - Said that, red with pleasure, hearing
himself called a public man.

- How many days has it been since I've
been here - Castro asked the girl.

- The least fifteen .... You see,
has been the last time on Monday .... Pacita was here .... Today is
Saturday .... Thirteen just days.

Never had such a mind the days
when Maldonado visiting the house. Castro welcomed This indifferent
interest test.

- I did so many days .... How time flies! said deeply.

-
Sure! You are flies away from us.

The young man smiled kindly and
asked permission to light a cigarette. Then he said:

- No, still
happens to me more quickly beside you.

- More than at Aunt Clementina?
- Asked the girl in an innocent tone that cast doubt of his intention.

Castro
became serious and stared. His relations with the daughter had Salabert
hitherto kept quite secret. Which were discovered at the home of his
sister husband was disturbed. Esperanza was like a cherry under the
gaze of the young.

- Same - concluded by saying coldly -. All are
good friends.

- Are you going home today from my sister? - Mariana
said without realizing what was happening.

- Ramon and I'll go: Is
not today Saturday? And you?

- I have no desire to receive. A few
days ago I feel a little discomfort in the throat.

- Do not say you're
sick, Mom. Say that you like better go to bed early - said Esperancita
with bad humor.

The mother looked at her with big eyes, dull.

-
I have a sore throat, girl.

- What a coincidence! - Said it in ironic
twang -. I have not heard it until now.

- If you feel like going
- said Mariana finishing guess - you take your dad.

- You know that
Dad, not leaving you, not come out.

Esperanza's tone revealed spite.
Through the eyes of Ramon spent a flash of joy legitimate and a look
of triumph to his friend Pepe