 Never had she seen her parents so sulky. "You a spendthrift
...». "And you mean spirited." "With you it is not possible the economy or the order ...».
"Well you can not live ...». "What would you be without me ...». "Well, I do not deserve me
You ...». Válganos God! Her mother had gotten into the Camon crying. She went back and entered
also to comfort her, she wanted subírsele knees, but could not. His mom was so great as all the
Palacio Real, the largest yet. Her mother had given her kisses. After casual, had taken a dress,
then another and another, and many fabrics and ribbons. In this gets her dad suddenly in the
Camon, no band, and his mother cries out in fear.

"I see, madam, I see - says his dad very vex - you brought me here a store ...». rag And his
mother, embarrassed very red face, but did not say: "I ... I ...
see ...».

In this, the poor girl, reaching the peak period of his delirium, he felt that within his body
is strange objects and oppressed people. All I had it in itself, as if he had swallowed half
the world. In his tiny stomach settled, dyed nasty and dense colors, and squeezing horribly
obstructing the bowels, his father, mother, the garments of her mom, Carrion, the Palace, Mr. Fish,
Milagros, Alfonsito, Vargas, Torres ... Retorciose painfully emptied
his body in that loads of things and people pressed it, and there
was ...!, bruumm all out like a torrent.

XXXV

She was relieved ... free of that awful boil your brain. Her mother cleaned the sweat from
his forehead, calling her with loving words. Rosalie felt his groans, undoubted symptoms of
the nightmare, and jumped out of bed to run to his rescue. It was
twelve.

Then made him a cup of tea, and he helped Prudence moved the sheets.

A half-hour the poor girl lay still, and his mother went to the sofa cabinet because dismissed
the bed fire. Before party wanted to give her husband to the dismay of the girl.

- "The usual? - Asked him from the fold of the single sheet that is
covered.

- Yes, as usual, nightmares, seizures, has been among the
strongest attacks.

Finally has calmed down. Poor angel! You will insist that our child is this propensity root
with epilepsy ... Knowing that is corrected sea bathing ...!

- So are those of the Jeronimos ... say, are better.

Rosalie's voice objecting to anything, was lost in the immediate quarters. Bringas, after coughing
a little, wrapped in clouds of sleep your opinion on the superiority of bathrooms Manzanares
to every bathroom in the world.

The improvement of our friend is stressed so much that from mid-July Golfín stopped go home. D. Francisco,
along with Paquito, would query two times a week. As the doctor had his house on Calle del
Arenal, a short distance had to go. The dark glass eye glasses, in addition to a great green
shade, guarding their eyes light, Ridley, always amiable with that recommended by His Majesty,
he dispatched soon. I was very pleased with his priest, and praised the excellent nature of the
patient, winner of evil in a few weeks. In July last eye doctor said his client was leaving in early
August to give a tour of Germany. "But you do not need me to display. I give it high, and what
may happen, one of my assistants will go through here three or four times while I'm out. " Bringas
heard with joy the dismissal of the conscientious doctor, a sign that evil was defeated. Born
of his honesty and sensitivity, prayed the doctor to pass him before leaving ... "Now you understand
me ... the little story of their fees. " Golfín burst into compliments. "Time will ... What a hurry
you ... Anyway, as you want ...».

And the great economist, leaving his son, weighed in the balance of his mind arithmetical
terms of this enigma was soon revealed. What regulatory or what rate would apply? Would you
consider as poor of solemnity, as used above, as rentier under or a bourgeois shameful and beggar?
At all hours of day and night I thought Thiers in this, and wished that the bill came out of his
anguished doubt.

Since D. Francis told his wife, who in early August was necessary to pay the doctor, the poor lady
believed more urgent replacement of the stolen banknotes chest. Fortunately, Milagros had given
little more than half of what mattered debt, with a promise to deliver the rest before going to
Biarritz. "Things are fixing me well - he said -. I'll probably enough for the commitments these
days, and still believe to leave you something if you need ... No, no need to thank ... I just
do not need, and is safer in those hands than mine. " With these promises and pledges, the Pipaón
seen near the end of his drowning. Both happy, though the spirits had Thiers some killed because they
can not go to bathrooms, delicious moments spent talking about fashion. The Telleria with
that art so admirable and so his, they are composed very well to regain some the little things
that gave it to Rosalie in those abductions of affection precursors of the loan. "Since you do
not leave, damn you need to make this pamela ... and this form of straw ... I'll see how I fix
it for me ... Here you can not use the goat hair. It is very inappropriate material of this
heat. As past few days feel cool, I'll take it. I must bring to you better things ... Oh, I'll
let a few yards of crudillo to dress the little ones, and a few pieces
of crepe that I have left.

" Yet they formed the Bringas. Unable she shine in the northern provinces, wanted revenge
on his fate adorning their offspring; already been provided with
costumes, and unseen things planned for and Alfonso Isabelita published
in the Plaza de Oriente, between the Republic of children festive,
good taste of affluent mom.

"Sobrino has a summer coat - said Milagros - that excited me. I do not go without take one. You
know ... tissue means imitation Chantilly, with guipure. "

- I've seen, daughter, I saw them yesterday - said the other with a deep sigh.

- Do not despair you, dear - said Milagros caressing -. In Bayonne bought these things by half, and
then introduced duty-free. I will bring you one of these tissue media, more beautiful than
it has Sobrino ... Do you want a bit for children skin of the devil, dice, which I do not need? Send it.
Instead I get these fichus that are not themselves to Madrid ... Will you go to the Prado?
There, with the candles and T enough.

The hats seem to come off of the head in the summer of Madrid. This armor flax sent to you
for nothing will work. Usarela me. It will return in the fall adorned something, a lot of novelty,
is not known yet here ... Ah, I recommend you to children about hats
sailors brought Sempere and some as caps or berets.

They are cute ... And do not make you more purchases: I will send a pair of blue socks for everyone,
and I have a good piece of pique that you can use.

Instead of the things that so Zandunga was recovering, he sent a bundle consisting of reports
scraps, ribbons and trimmings that, strictly speaking, not useless. Thanks to come out from there
a tie for Paquito and another for the exalted neck of the tooth fairy.

Pipaón one morning that she was alone, as Thiers had gone to consultation, appeared quite unexpectedly
Fish. Summer dress, with elegant light-colored alpaca suit, like a chicken. Rosalia always
one appeared to be happy, and this time he saw with more pleasure, so smooth and was rejuvenated.
Grew increasingly more in the spirit of the noble lady's image that subject, and to build more
in the realm of thought.

And before the appeal Outside of him, before his manners and his lordship, he captivated the purposes
to protect in all circumstances afflicting. It might have been surrendered to the guard before
lover, I mean that if those fish had not put the offer parallel positive the gains would have
been much less great. He nevertheless be very skilled, had more with the strength of his personal
thanks to that other means of warfare. But very little is given to know all the varieties of human frailty.
That war artifact, used simply as an auxiliary, was more effective than shooting Cupid.

And that day was so expressive fish at an early stage, so atrevidillo and awake, Rosalia, considered
alone with him in the house (they also had children and Prudence left) was in very great trouble.
As in his soul had rectal and modest, so innate Bringas as taught by so many years of married
life blameless, rose and stood on guard.

Fish proved to be a feckless boy at that critical time; transfigurose
in a romantic of which are decorated with despair, and are decorated
with a pretty desire die.

Their language and their ways, perfectly adapted to the burning temple of the heatwave, Rosalia
terrified, first-in that uneasy friendships guilty. Say and repeat in his honor. Calaverón a virtuous
found my strength had not expected, because according to his sentence I heard more than once,
had believed that their excessive ripeness, fruit that fell the tree itself.

XXXVI

The analysis under the Pipaón yields a singular result. Fish had no skill or luck to catch it in
one of those unfortunate moments when the satisfaction a whim or the crush of a commitment
in his heart moved desires to possess powerful amounts that varied according to circumstances.
In such moments, his passion for frippery or the desire to keep up appearances and cover up
their cheating, blinded to the point not to hesitate to buy the victory with the currency of
your honor ... This explains the enigma Fish's defeat. When he wanted to expunge the plaza,
this was well stocked. The Bringas had money in those days.

Milagros Tell them paid more than half of its debt, and the rest it would most likely next Sunday,
with more something I wanted to leave his power as reserve. Alright sure most pressing engagement,
so that lady and fresh frescota in the case was believed to show off his strength, a virtue
less sensitive to the author interest. With a phrase that I keep in memory, called Fish that
character vain, temperament that is inaccessible to all the passion that was not well dressed.
He said this great observer who was like the Bulls, who came over to rag man.

He insisted his romantic vehemence my friend, and who knows if in the end would have had the contest
an unfortunate term ... But the entry of the children was as an intervention of divine providence
in the matter.

Soon after came D. Francisco, and both gentlemen spoke a little politics, of this stubborn
policy González Bravo, that in the mouth of Fish, by special arrangement of his mind, took
a pessimistic tinge. D. Espeluznaba Francisco heard him. Prison generals and the Duke of Montpensier
was a fumble.

The revolutionaries had said his last words on the Iberia of those days, and the Government had
launched his latest challenge. The army sympathized with the revolution, and even said that the
Navy ... "By God, sir Fish, do not talk like you lot! "- exclaimed Thiers taking both hands
head and forgetting to remove them for a while.

"I wash my hands - said the other -. I'm seeing coming cataclysm, and frankly, when I learned
that the Liberal Union, a government party, a party order, which is a serious party, help the revolutionaries,
what you want ... I see no ...». black thing

A spot of bother Thiers was, for the kindness of his friend as a prelude seemed a defection. Brinker
continued to vent their anger against the progressives, the National Militia, Espartero, without
forgetting the chas-ing, against the titled Himno de Riego, against so-called Democrats and every living
creature, until fish, jaded, led the conversation to the subject of your trip. He was not impatient
or think it was absolutely necessary for your health Madriles abandon, but their girls were harassing
him so much so that soon lead to San Sebastian, who could not further delay the issue. They
wanted the poor things look like in the Shell and perendengues Zurriola the station, and such
was his enthusiasm for this, that if had not suddenly would burst with sorrow. Her mother
was here, prostrate before the altar of the Souls and gossiping in the sacristy with other
Beaton of the same stewing. Rest and freedom was for poor girls travel to the North, and this
concept could not but be helpful to the weak health of both. Dad was for recreational nuisance
on this little trip, because his daughters made him dizzy with frequent trips to Bayonne to
buy rags and smuggle them. And no need Josefita and Rosita do what others, who dress bought and
put it in the trunks of use, or needed to be two winter coats, one over another, and six pairs
of socks and two skirts and four mantles. The happy circumstance of being his father Finance Director
in the sweltering exempted from that how to smuggle. The administrator of the Office of Irun
was the position held our fish, and he was native fish from the side, thus, that is that girls
were brought to Spain, half of France. "It gives me a chance to endless commitments this trip
- added Don Manuel finally - because I can not stick your nose in Bayonne and Biarritz without
being harassed by the ladies see high and medium category, asking the usual card or flounce to
the cousin of Irun ... Most of the time I can not deny ... Is and in our customs and looks like
a quixotic looking for income.

It is truly Spanish this view in the State legal thief, the thief permanent historical thief
... Among other sayings of immoral philosophy is that of a hundred years of pardon, etc. ...
Is my topic, this is a lost country ... And you go to splash a moralist. Last year, a Marquise
quite wealthy, who did not want to facilitate the passage of a load of clothes, I almost take
out the eyes. He got made a lion and called for the revolution and the demagogues. A duchess,
too smart, was pleased to pass on my beard and whiskers cousin Irun ... Pásmese you! ... Fifty-four
trunks full of news! ".

That said, he went, and returned next day to say goodbye, for that
same evening leaving.

A little while he could speak alone with Rosalie, and was so scarred the heart and tip so
hurt despite loving, honest lady that could not but pity him, feeling at the same time two kinds
of vanity, the triumph of virtue and no less be large so formidable passion. Must have been
great merit and beauty when he prostrated before her, as a little boy, a man so serious and quiet,
when men of that temple was whistling at her and had bought with their life (sic) any favorcillo.

Miracles
did not come out until 29. Many occupations had those last days, and what troubles going to
prepare your trip!

"My dearest friend - said Rosalie, alone with her in the Carrion - you dispense to me not deliver to
it before I go, that rest is missing. I guess you can wait a days. When I leave home agent commission
put in their hands that amount to 5 or 6 of next, because by then has to collect certain amounts
of each census Zafra. Neglect you will not miss. It's the first thing I put on the list of orders
that left Enriquez and lest you forget, I see him machaco always the same. "Beware how you
leave deliver ... care, Enriquez ... The peak of my friends comes first. "

Too bad you knew this may delay, but as it seemed so solemn promise was not much wait for the
August 5, had to calm down. Her friend went stunned by his dismal love and perjury he had brought
from France a thousand gifts of high novelty. "I guess stumble there with fish, to free us
from the sickness of the Customs, which is unbearable with those employees so ordinary. If left,
are able to open all the trunks ... and I took a whopping fourteen. From there, I always bring
three or four more. You can not I surrendered to figure out how to work these days. My maridillo
not help me anything. All you have to give fact. This year has not even bothered to ask for
tickets Free. I've had to do, putting little notes to the President of the Executive Committee
and finally reluctantly gave them to me. But I could not get to give us two reserved other years,
but one. What injustice! ... Sudre I tell that this is the payment that give the Senate to defend
the Company as he defends against all odds. I put very nervous the day trip. I think that always
is something we will not to catch the train, I will make sense to pay an excess weight ... You see,
fourteen trunks! It is a maze of hell. Leopoldito take your dog, your cat Mary Gustavo Angora
and a bird cage for a friend. Think about what you have to eating on the road these irrational
... And all in a single department, which will appear Noah's Ark! Fortunately we know the driver,
and Mary and I, then have dinner at Avila we pass on to a saloon-bed ... Assumption took ...
I can not live without my maid. The hand luggage, I think that will be about twenty-four.
I do not sleep at all if I do my pillows. For Augustine there who will keep your head carrying
a basin to wash two or three Sometimes on the road. My suitcase-dressing can not be left behind,
because I like to get stations made a facade. Leopoldito bears his checkerboard, the Bilboquet,
the question Roman, his pistol games and a portfolio which targets
all tunnels and time is in all seasons. Gustavo loaded with half a
dozen big books to be read by the path, and the maula of my husband,
who thinks only of comfort, is furious with missing shoes, the great
silk hat, the cushion of wind ... To all I have to attend because
can not be a servant to everyone. Those days are gone, alas, and I
figure that no have to return