 

Almost going to fight with the fury of his opinions and his rival in love, when Canto distracted
his attention. Rid of the drum was embedded in his head and wiped the blood from his forehead. He
wept with rage rage weak, capable of the greatest revenge, but it feels like a slave while his impotence.

-
To me! Me! - Moaned amazed this attack.

Suddenly he bent over, looking for stones in the Febrer dark to throw against, and each stone
was down some steps to defend against further aggression. The pebbles, dismissed by their weak
arms were lost in the shadow or bounce off the porch.

Then whistled no more stones. Some friends sang it almost dragged in the dark. Their cries were
heard in the distance, uttering threats, swore revenge ... "I'd kill the stranger! He just put
an end to the Spaniard !...»

He remained motionless, one hand on the belt, among so many enemies. He felt ashamed of his outburst.
Hitting the poor consumptive! ... To quell his remorse, he uttered aloud superb low challenges.
"Another wanted him to have sung !...» and her eyes sought to Ferrer
but the dreaded Verro was gone.

When Febrer, half an hour later, and the tumult subsided, he returned
to his tower, he stopped several Sometimes on the road, with the revolver
in his right hand as if expecting someone.

No!

II

The next morning, just after sunrise, he ran the Chaplain in search of Don Jaime, revealing in
his gesture to enter the tower the importance of the news that he carried.

Can Mallorquí everyone had had a bad night. Margalida crying, the mother had complained incessantly about
what happened. Lord!

What people think of them knowing the paddock home in the men stuck in a tavern! What say
the atlotas of his daughter! ... But a little worried Margalida the
opinion of her friends.

Else seemed interested: something that could not quite say, but did shed tear after tear. The
Pep but then closing the door of the house, had walked more than an hour in the kitchen muttering
words and clenching his fists. "That Don Jaime! ... Strive to get what was impossible! ... Stubborn
as all yours! ...

The Chaplain had not slept, feeling born in thinking small wild cunning
and suspicious, a suspicion that gradually took the reality of a certainty.

Upon

entering the tower immediately communicated their thoughts to Don Jaime. Who believed him who was the author
of the song offensive? Cannot? ... Well, no sir: it was Ferrer. Verses had invented the other,
but the intent was malicious verre.

This was suggested by insulting the idea that Don Jaime in full procession, with the assurance
that no the grievance would go unpunished. Since the boy was clear the real reason for the interview
the two suitors that he had been surprised in the bush.

Febrer welcomed with a shrug this news, which the Chaplain attached
great importance.

So what?

... The singer was insolent and punished, and as for the Verro, had fled their challenges to
the door of the house. He was a coward.

Pepet shook his head in disbelief. Ojo, Don Jaime! He knew the habits of brave land, the tricks
that are worth to ensure impunity for their revenge. Should remain on guard, now more than ever.
The Ferrer knew what the prison, and did not want to return.

I just made Verros others had done before.

Jaime grew impatient with the mysterious and confusing words of the boy.

- For which openly! ... Speak!

The Chaplain explained at length his suspicion. And the blacksmith could do whatever he wanted against
Don Jaime: I could wait in ambush in tamarisk at the foot of the tower and kill with one stone.
Suspicion immediately be directed against sang, remembering the question occurred at the farm and
his words of revenge.

With this and the Verro prepare an alibi moving at full speed for shortcuts to some distant point
where all might see him, it would easy to fulfill his vengeance, in safety.

- Ah! - Febrer said getting surly, as if suddenly understood the full
importance of such words.

The boy, pleased with his superiority, continued to give advice.

Don Jaime was living forward less sloppy, close the door of his tower, ignore, only the arrival night,
the cries from outside. Verro pretend surely induce out of the dark with shouts of defiance,
with Auque challenge.

- Although he Auque at night, you still, Don Jaime. I know that - continued Chaplain the importance
of a hardened Verro -. I scream from outside, hidden in the bushes, with the gun ready, and
if it goes, before I can see you will kill with a pistol.

You still in the tower.

These recommendations were for the night.

By day, the Lord could come without fear. There he was to accompany him everywhere. Stood with vanity
war, taking a hand to brace ensure that the knife had not disappeared, but was immediately disappointed
to see mocking gesture of gratitude Febrer.

- Laugh, Don Jaime, búrlese me, but something I can I serve ... See for yourself how you notice
now in danger. You have to live on their guard. With a bad idea it has prepared Ferrer of the
song.

And looking around, as a leader who is prepared to repel a long siege. Their eyes met the gun
hanging from the wall between the shell ornaments. Very good! Was loaded with ball both barrels,
and over a handful of slugs or large buckshot. It never hurts. So did his glorious grandfather.
Then he frowned when he saw the gun left on the table.

Very bad! Small arms are to carry over at all hours. He slept with the knife on the belly.
What if the enemy came suddenly without giving him time to find the gun? ...

The tower, which had witnessed other executions and battles centuries of pirates, shell empty tragic
stone concealed by the sharp enjalbegadura the walls, then brought boy's attention.

Went to the door with slow caution, as if an enemy waiting for him at the foot of the stairs
and hiding the body on the edge of the wall, advancing only one eye and part of the front. Then
shook his head in dismay.

When he looked out at night, even with these tricks, the enemy, lurking below, could see him,
pointing his elbows comfortably on a branch or a stone, without fear
of losing the shot.

Worse was yet to throw the body out of the door and pretend to fall. For it was dark night,
the enemy might choose a focus, a patch of foliage, a star on the horizon, something in the
dark overhang that stands next to the stairs.

And as he passed the black bulk of coming down, obscuring for a moment object pointed ... Room
fire safe! Teachings were heard from men who had serious last for months after a bank or shelter of
a tree, with the butt cheek next to and the eye at the end of the barrel, from sunset till dawn,
waiting for a old friend.

No, the Chaplain did not like this door with his outdoor staircase.

We had to seek way out, and his eyes went to the window, then opening it to lean to it.

With simian agility, laughing at his discovery, he jumped on the windowsill and began down by
the wall, looking for hand and foot masonry inequalities, alveoli deep as stepping stones left
by rolling boulders detached from the mortar. Febrer looked out the window, and saw him at the foot
of the tower picking up his hat was down and shaking it aloft with triumphant expression. Then
the boy ran around the base of the tower, and their footsteps echoed shortly afterwards lively
trot on the steps of wood near the door.

- If it's easier! - Shouted as he entered the room, flushed with excitement
about his discovery -.

If it is a step gentlemen ...

Realizing the importance of his discovery, made a serious gesture of mystery. This remained
between the two: not a word to anyone. It was a nice departure, which was secretly to save.

The Chaplain envied Don Jaime. Not having him as an enemy to come there for aucarlo night! ...
While Ferrer ambushed howl, his eyes fixed on the ladder, he would fall the window, behind the
tower and turning silently would hunt the hunter. What a shock! ... Laughed with savage pleasure,
and dark red lips seemed to wake up trembling ferocity of the glorious grandparents, who had seen
the man hunt the noblest of the exercises.

Febrer felt infected by the savage joy of the boy. If the tried to go down the window! ... He
took the legs out of the sill, and slowly, hindered by their mature corpulence, was feeling
the inequalities of the wall with the toes up find the holes that formed steps. Gradually fell,
rolling under his feet some loose stones, until at last set foot on the ground with a sigh.
Very good! The descent was easy, after a few trials would fall so easily as Chaplain. He,
who had followed him swiftly, descending almost over his head, smiling like a teacher satisfied
with the lesson, and returns to repeat his advice.

Not Don Jaime's forget! Anearan barely outside, should lie down window, catching from behind
the opposite.

When left alone Febrer noon, he felt possessed by a desire Belize, aggressiveness that made him
look for a long time the piece of wall hanging gun.

At the foot of the promontory, on the beach where the boat was beached Uncle Guster, rang this
voice singing the mass. Febrer appeared at the door, taking both hands to his mouth as a speaker
and shouted.

The sailor, with the help of a boy threw his boat into the water. The candle, collection, shaking
at the top of the mast. Jaime did not accept the invitation. "Thank you, Uncle Guster!" This
insisted the little voice coming through the air like the distant
wail of a child.

The evening was good, had changed the wind near the Vedrá going to catch fish in abundance.
Febrer shrugged. "No, thank you very much, had to do."

As he spoke, when the Chaplain was presented for the second time in the tower, leading food.
The boy looked sulky and sad. His father, enraged by the scene night before, had chosen him
as a victim, to vent his anger. "An injustice, Don Jaime! "shouted walking through the kitchen,
while women, with watery eyes shrunk air, seemed to escape his gaze. Everything happened so attached
to their softness character, his goodness, but was to remedy this immediately. The courtship was
suspension: admitted no parades or visits.

As for the Chaplain! ... This poor child disobedient and rebellious, was to blame for everything.

Pep
was not sure how he could have influenced the presence of his son in the scandal the previous
night, but remembered his resistance to becoming a priest, his escape from the Seminar and the
memory of these troubles aroused his anger, making the concentrate on the boy. It finished
the regard and kindness! Next Monday would lead the seminar. If you thought resist and flee a
second time, the better for him to embark on and forget that boy had a father, then saw him return
to the farm, Pep was able to break both legs with the bar of the door. And by sheer relief, accustomed
to go hand and give a sample of his future anger, he took off a few
slaps and kicks, thus claiming experienced disgust at seeing time
before reaching Ibiza fugitive.

The Chaplain, shrunken and patient by custom, took refuge in a corner
behind the wall of petticoats and skirts that opposed the weeping
mother's fury Pep.

But look now the tower and remember the offense, gnashed his teeth, eyes, cheeks livid and clenched
fists.

"What injustice! So stick to men for no reason, just to relieve the poor humor? ... To him,
who carried a knife in his belt and was not afraid of anyone on the island! All because he was
the father !...»

Ay! This of paternity and filial respect were for the Chaplain inventions at the time of cowards,
created solely to harass and vilify men of heart. And on top of the beatings, humiliating to
the dignity of the brave, the completeness of closure at the Seminar,
the black robe, like the skirts of women, and cropped hair, losing
forever those arrogant poking loops under the brim of his hat, the
tonsure, which would infuse a cold laugh or respect for atlotas, and
dances and dating goodbye! Goodbye knife! ...

Soon cease to see Don
Jaime. Within a week they would take him to Ibiza. Others he would
rise food to the tower ... Febrer made a revealing gesture of hope.
Perhaps Margalida as in the past! But the Chaplain, despite his sadness,
he smiled mischievously. No, Margalida not, all except her. Well,
I was the only pampering Pep! When poor mother, to defend his atlot,
timidly talked how necessary it was the boy at home to serve the Lord,
Pep broke in new rants. He himself would to carry all day at the Tower
of Don Jaime food, and if not his wife, and if not seek atlota that
could serve as a servant to this gentleman, and who insisted on living
near them.

He said no more the Chaplain, but the words Febrer guessed
that the good peasant should have released against him. I forgot,
driven by anger, his former respect, he felt enraged by the disruption
entailed in the family with his presence.

The boy returned to the
farm mumbling vindictive purposes, vowing not to go to seminary even
know how to get it. Their resistance took suddenly a guard tone chivalry.
Leaving his friend Don Jaime when he was surrounded by dangers! ...
Go to enclosed in that big of sadness, between lords black skirts
who spoke a strange language, now in the countryside, sunlight or
the mystery of the night were to kill the men! ... Occur as extraordinary
events and do not see it! ...

When Febrer was alone, he picked up
the gun and spent a long time examining the door idly. His thoughts
were far, far away from the ends of the canyons, which seemed to point
to the mountain ... "That blacksmith! That insufferable bully !...