 I wanted my steady decline concern
through reading, but given the coincidence that the only work that had been me was the history of
Bernal Diaz del Castillo, and she, far from providing entertainment, he indulged in the strangest
thoughts. I put the book and went for a walk in the meadows, until dusk. When I returned to my room
I felt feverish and went between the sheets; but only managed to reconcile a thousand times restless
and interrupted sleep. I remember that night I witnessed the bloodiest episodes of the conquest
of Mexico. Priests Aztecs opened the chest of their victims and arrancábanles the heart, still
beating, to offer the terrible Huichilobos, who presided over the largest Cu ... Constantly hear the
sound of the fight and streams of blood all over me close ... Rang in my ears the "sad sound" drum,
as Bernal Diaz, could be heard two miles away, and woke up excited. The bell of the Cathedral
rang mournfully.

       * * * * *

With the coveted Aurora, regained peace of mind. I worked all day in the file the Cabildo,
where I find the documents he sought, and I even forget strange events
on Thursday.

But to get to my room in the afternoon, I found that I was waiting there the Father Montero.
Seeing him again I felt ashamed and guilty.

- Hello!

I said, to prove that peace of mind. How nice to see you!

Want we take a walk along the banks of the river before it gets dark?

- Rafael, said, ignoring my question. Do you remember the parrot Huichilobos you saw yesterday?

-
Yes, I said almost as a challenge. "It was discovered and the perpetrator of the attack?

- That would not be easy in such a short space of time. What I tell you, because I trust at your
discretion, is this: Know that His Eminence, who is active man sent
a message yesterday to the Court, to come at once one of the best
jewelers and sooner would restore the damage caused to the parrot.

It came in the noon train and Dean, the Treasurer and I have gone this afternoon to pick up the gem
to give it, but calculated what would be our surprise, when you open the hood and see that the
parrot has disappeared! How could the thief get there, no one can explain.

Instinctively we had approached the window, for the sunset promised to be beautiful that afternoon.
Gargoyles and other protruding parts of the huge cathedral had already Profiles fire, and the treetops
of the plaza and up the hydrangeas from my balcony started to carmine
dye.

Suddenly, my friend uttered a cry of surprise.

Looking towards the place feverishly pointed out, I saw the Huichilobos Papagayo, within walking
distance of us, perched on a ledge of the tower.

- It's identical! he exclaimed.

- No, I said quite calmly. Is the same. He is alive, but has broken
the left wing.

I I have broken himself.

Montero Father looked at me strangely and I saw his lips quivering were to ask a question; but
at the time the bird moved its wings, which gleamed in the light of sunset, as if falling a
cascade of stones in a fire, and handed the flight in our direction.

Wine sit back on the railing of the balcony. Yes, was there Huichilobos Papagayo, within our
hands, we dared not touch it! We held our breath and we moved for
a long period of time, fascinated by the unexpected event.

I know not what supreme effort of will, Father Montero attempted to seize him suddenly. But the
bird escaped from his hands, and handed the flight to the West. I
stayed entranced, watching the bird away in the air, slowly and majestically,
becoming in tiny point of light disappear into the distance as the
sun sank in the horizon.

By turning his head, warned that the Father
Montero stood motionless with his eyes on the open palm of your hand.
It shone four rubies emeralds and three large.

INDEX

BRONZE DOOR
Similia similibus PRACTICAL MAN OLD MASTER'S CHEST IMAGO Tristis CHESS
PLAYERS HAT TIBOTÚ KING OF THE FRAY REPORTAZGO BALTASAR THE PARROT
Huichilobos OF CONTENT