 And he did not tell him that Rita was not without some
enredillo .... About Carmen and Manolita not need reason, well see what was happening. But Rita
....

No close friend Don Pedro was in Santiago, although several known, earned in the walk in the house
of his uncle or the Casino, where I used to go tomorrow night and, by dint of good Spanish
idle. There he was teased a lot with his cousin, talking also unreasonable passion Carmen
by the student and continued perch on the veranda, with the worshiper bet front. Always on,
the gentleman studying the tone and accent with which they named Rita. In two or three times he
seemed to sense a touch of irony, and perhaps not wrong, because in small towns where no event
is forgotten or erased, which perpetually turns conversation on these issues, which bulges the trivial
and serious takes on proportions epic, often has a girl lost to fame before honor, and minor indiscretions,
glossed and censored for years and years, leading to its author with palm to the grave. In addition,
girls of Lage, for his ancestry, by the fumes of his aristocratic father, and the kind of halo
that sought to surround them, their beauty, were the target of many envidillas and gossip: when they
are not accused of being proud, they resorted to condemn it as flirty.

Lucia Casino between his battered sofa unfurnished an outmoded percha, gala Cabinet Reading:
sofa gallery might be called slanderers, for there they met three of the most sharp scissors have
cut tunics in the world, worthy of more detailed triumvirate sketch and which towered an eminent
character, master of the science of evil knowledge. Scholars and pride themselves on not ignore
the least particularly concerning remote historical times, this guy was bragging to say, without
missing point or comma what income they enjoyed, what they ate, what they said and even what they
thought the twenty viso or thirty families that enclosed the compound of Santiago. Man was
to deliver with great formality and great rest:

- Yesterday, Lage
house have been put on the table two principles: croquettes and stewed
meat.

The salad was cauliflower, and desserts are served quince jelly of the nuns.

Verifying the accuracy of such details, were strictly true.

As well informed guy got more suspicious light in the mind of Mr. suspicious de Ulloa, it being
sufficient a few little words, the kind that taken at face value have no malice, but seen against
the light can mean everything .... Commending the Rita salt shaker, and the beauty of Rita, and
good body conformation anatomical Rita he said casually:

- It's
a girl .... the first order And here you would hardly boyfriend.

Girls for Rita style always find their soulmate in an outsider.

-XI-

One month before Don Manuel Pardo asked himself: "When the boy
is determined Rita asking me?

".

Who would ask, did not hesitate a moment. The situation of the Marquis in the house was tacitly the
groom accepted. The friends of the family were allowed Lage overt allusions to the upcoming wedding,
the servants in the kitchen, and calculated how much amount the propineja Bridal. When collected,
her sisters Rita gave rattle. A fraternity laugh all the time with his cousin and a burst of
youthful joy bartered the ancient sprawling home aviary.

Headed an afternoon nap the Marquis, came knocking at the door with a big clap. Opened: it was Rita,
blouse with a silk scarf tied to the gigs, wearing her beautiful
throat discovered