 But I, who saw things differently, I was creeping until a French column
came to stand before me in such a provision, that my shots could enfilade from one extreme to another.
The French are the line with great perfection. Tome While pointing with one of the parts, engineering
looks at the head of the first soldier ... Do you understand? ... As the line was so perfect
shot, and wham, the ball was percent forty-two heads, and did not fall further because the end
of the line moved a little. What caused great consternation in the enemy, but as they did not understand
my strategy or could see myself in the place where it was, they sent another column to attack
the troops to my right, and that column had the same luck, and another and another, until the
battle was won.

- It's wonderful - "my master, who, knowing the magnitude of the ball,
he would not, however, lie to his friend.

- For the second campaign
under the command of Union County, sloughing also a great time Republicans.

Boulou's defense, we did not go well, because we ran out of ammunition: I, however did a great
destruction carrying a piece with the keys of the church, but they not many, and finally, as a source
of despair, I put in my barrel bore keys, my watch, my money, I found few trinkets in his pockets,
and finally to my crosses. What is unique is that one of these was to be printed on the chest
of a French general where he was almost frozen and unharmed. He kept it, and when he went to Paris,
Convention do not know if he was sentenced to death or exile for having admitted decorations an enemy
government.

- What mischief! - Whispered my love indulging with such droll inventions.

-
When I was in England continued the old Malespina ...-- - you know
that the Government English I was sent to perfect the Artillery of
that country ... Everyday eating Pitt, with Burke, with Lord North,
in general and other VIPs Conwallis I called the funny Spanish.

I remember once being at the palace, begged me to show them how it
was one, and I had to ride, chop and kill a chair, which amused much
to the whole court, especially when King George III, who was very
buddy of mine and always said that he commanded me to get my good
olives land.

Oh, I was confident me. Every effort was to teach him words of Spanish and, especially some of
this our gracious Andalusia, but never learned more than any other bull and come these five,
phrase that greeted me every day when I went to lunch with him and a few straws Whiting Jerez.

-
It was what he liked best. I was carrying bottled whiting Cadiz: conservábase very well with
a specific invented, whose recipe I have at home.

- Wonderful. What you reformed British Artillery? - Asked my master, encouraging him to follow
because it greatly amused .-- Completely. They invented a cannon that fired, because all of London,
including the Court and the Ministers, came to beg him not to do the test for fear that the
dither many houses fell to the ground.

- "So this great piece has been forgotten?

- Wanted to buy the Emperor of Russia, but was unable to move from the place where it was.

- Well, could you get us out of trouble by inventing a cannon shot to destroy a the British
fleet.

- Oh! - Answered Malespina -. In this I am thinking, and I think I
can do my thinking.

And I will show you the calculations that I have done, not only to increase to an extent great
caliber artillery pieces, but to build strength plates to defend
the ships and castles.

It is the thought of my life. "

In all they had completed eating. We gobbled up in a heartbeat and I Marcial leftovers and
continue the journey on horseback, marching in step, and we as before
in our crippled buggy.

Frequent food and drinks with the dew still further excited Malespina vein of the old inventor,
who went all the way broaching its great nonsense. The conversation turned to the issue of where
it started: a war of Roussillon; as D. Joseph made haste to refer new feats, my love, tired
of lying so much, wanted to divert him from that area, and said:

"Disastrous war and impolitic. Plus we would have been better not to have taken!

- Oh! - Said Malespina -. El Conde de Aranda, as you know, condemned
from the beginning this disastrous war with the Republic.

How we talked about this issue! ... because we friends since childhood. When I was in Aragon,
spent seven months together hunting in Moncayo. Indeed I build for him a unique gun ...

- Yes: Aranda always opposed - said my master, shortcuts on the dangerous
path of ballistics.

- Indeed - continued the liar - and if that great
man so warmly defended the peace with the Republicans, it was because
I advised him, convincing before the untimeliness of war.

More Godoy, who even then was valid, she persisted in continuing
it, just take the contrary, as I understood later.

The funny thing is that it was forced Godoy to conclude the war in the summer of 95, he realized
its ineffectiveness, and then claimed himself the resounding title of Prince of Peace.

- What we are lacking, Don José María - "my love - of a great man of state to the rise to the occasion,
a man we do not meddle in useless wars and keep intact the dignity of the Crown!

- Well, when I was in Madrid last year - continued the liar - I made proposals to carry out
the Secretary of State. The Queen was very hard at it, and King said no nothing ... Every day
he came with Brown to pull a couple of shots ... Even the Godoy had
formed, knowing my superiority, and if not, I would have missed a
little castle where shutting him not to give me to do.

But I refused, preferring to live quietly in my town, and left the public business in the hands of Godoy.
There you have a man whose muleteer father was in the meadow that my father had in Extremadura.

-
Do not know ...-- said D. Alonso -. Although obscure man, I thought that the Prince of Peace
belonged to a noble family of little wealth, but of good principles. "

Thus continued the dialogue, Mr. Malespina dropping balls like temples, and I love hearing them
with holy calm, seeming sometimes angry and pleased to hear other
such nonsense.

If I remember correctly, also said D. Jose Maria, who had advised Napoleon dared made of 18 Brumaire.

With
these and other things we went to sleep in Chiclana, and my master,
horribly broken and bruised movement because of perjured gig, stayed
in the village, while others followed, eager to get to Cadiz on the
same night.

While they dined, saddled Malespina new lies, and I could see that his son could hear with regret,
as embarrassed to have at father the biggest liar who created the earth. They took their leave,
we rest until the next day at dawn, at which time we continued our journey, and how it was
much more convenient and unobstructed from Chiclana Cadiz in the
stretch run, we at the end of our journey at about eleven o'clock,
no new health and soul cheerful.

-VIII-

I can not describe the enthusiasm
aroused in my soul back a. As I have a moment of freedom, after my
master was installed in the house of his cousin, went to streets and
ran them with no fixed address, intoxicated with the atmosphere of
my beloved city.

After long absence, which had seen so often enchanted my attention as something new and extremely
beautiful. In many people was the way he saw a face friend, and everything was nice and sunny
for me: men, women, old people, children, dogs, even houses, for my youthful imagination watched
it I do not know what staff and lively, I represented as sentient beings, it seemed that involved
the general happy for my arrival, mimicking on their balconies and windows of the features
of a face jubilant. My spirit was reflected in everything outside their own joy.

Ran through the streets with great anxiety, as if in one minute would
see them all.

In the Plaza de San Juan de Dios bought some candy, but for the pleasure of eating, by pleased
to introduce composition to the vendors, whom I spoke as a former friends, recognizing some
as favoring in my previous misery, and others as victims, not yet
appeased, my innocent fondness for loitering.

Most did not remember me, but some I was greeted with insults, recalling the exploits of my
childhood and making humorous comments as on my new packing and the severity of my person,
I had to leave in a hurry, no without hurt my decorum some fruit peel thrown by hand against my
expert new suit. As was the consciousness of my formality, these jokes more pride caused me what
a pity.

Then toured the wall and told all the boats anchored in sight.

I talked to a few sailors I found the step, saying that I was going to the top, and asking
in a tone very emphatic if there washed up Nelson's fleet. After I told them that Mr. Horn was
a coward, and that the next show would be good.

I came at last to the inlet, and there my joy knew no bounds. I went down to, and removing shoes,
jumped from rock to rock, I looked for my old friends of both sexes, but not found but very few: some
were men and had embraced best race, others had been shipped by the cam, and those who remained
barely recognized me. The moving water surface wake voluptuous sensations in my chest. Unable
to resist temptation, and compelled by mysterious lure of the sea, whose eloquent rumor has always
seemed to me I do not know why, a voice asks sweetly in the bonanza,
or call with urgent anger in the storm, undressed in a hurry and jumped
on him as he throws himself into the arms of a loved one.

I swam for over an hour, experiencing an indescribable pleasure, and then getting dressed, I continued
my ride to the Vine neighborhood, whose uplifting taverns found some
of the most famous lost my glorious time.

Talking to them, I threw them a man of mettle, and as that I spent on giving away a few rooms
had. I asked for my uncle, but did not give me any news of his seniority, and then we had chatted
a bit, made me a drink of spirit which gave the point with my poor body on land.

During the strongest of my intoxication, I believe those scoundrels laughed at me As they felt like
it, but once I calmed a bit, I left the tavern avergonzadísimo. Although it was terribly hard,
I wanted to stop by my old house, and saw the door to a woman frying tattered blood and guts.
Moved home before my birth, I could not crying, which, seen from
this heartless woman, fancied scorn or stratagem to steal your chips.

I, therefore, to get rid of their hands the way of my feet, leaving for another day the relief
of my feelings.

I wanted to see after the old cathedral, which meant one of the most tender memories of my childhood,
and went into it: his compound seemed charming, and I've never walked the aisles temple one with
such religious worship.

I think I got the urge to pray, and I did indeed, kneeling at the altar where my mother had
put a former voting my salvation. The character of wax which I thought was my perfect portrait
hung there, and took his place with the severity of the holy things, but I looked like an egg
to a chestnut. One doll, symbolizing piety and maternal love, filled me, however, respect to the
quick. I prayed on his knees for a while remembering the suffering and death My good mother,
who already had God in heaven, but as my head was not good, because of the fumes of cursed spirits,
when I got up I fell, and an inveterate sexton nicely put me on the
street.

In a few strides I went to the Noodle, where he resided, and my master, as I entered, I was
scolded for my long absence. If that had been missing committed to Dona Francisca, I would not
have escaped a severe beating, but my master was tolerant and I never punished, perhaps because
he was conscious of being so young like me.

We had gone to reside at the home of the cousin of my master, who was a lady, whom the reader
I will describe some prolixity, because it deserves such. Doña Flora Cisniega was an old lady who
insisted on staying young, had more than fifty years, but put in practice every conceivable artifice
to fool the world, appearing half that terrifying figure. Say how much invented the science
and art in harmonious partnership to achieve this object, it is business that is for my little strength.
Enumerating curls, bows, ribbons, rags, marinades, vermilion, water and other extraneous bodies
who attended to the great work of his monumental restoration, would fatigue the most skilled
fantasy stay This, then, for pens of novelists, if ever, the great seeker things are not appropriate
as beautiful affair.

Regarding his physical, as I have is this the set of his face, which seemed to have set their rosy
all the brushes Schools present and past. I also remember talking with lips made a face, a retreat,
a mime, intended, or out to grace the huge mouth, or hide the havoc on the teeth, from whose
ranks deserted every year a couple of teeth, but that supine ploy of the presumption was so
unfortunate, which formerly disfigured the beautified.

Dressed in luxury, and his hair was spent by almudes powders, and as he had bad meat judging by
proclaiming the wide neckline and left transparent so the gauze, every effort was to show
off those parts less sensitive to the injurious action time, for which purpose he had a wonderful
art.

Doña Flora person was very in love with old things, very devout, but not the holy Dona Francisca
mercy on me, and greatly differed from my mistress, as well as hated it naval glories, it was
keen for all men of war in general and seafarers in particular. Inflamed patriotic love, as in the
maturity of its existence could not aspire to the warmth of another
love, and extremely proud as a woman and a lady Spanish, national
sentiment was associated in his mind the roar of cannon, and believed
that the greatness of the people is measured by pounds of gunpowder.

Having no children, occupied gossip life of residents, brought in and carried in a small circle
of two or three cotorrones like her, and also to its systematic distracted fans to talk about
public affairs. Then there were no newspapers, and political ideas, as well as news circulated
of living voice, altering then more than now, it has always been
that the word liar printing.

In all large cities, especially in Cadiz, which was then the most educated, had many unemployed
persons who were the bearers of the news from Madrid and Paris, and vehicles carried and brought
diligent, proud with a mission that gave them great importance. Some of them, living as a
newspaper, were attending the house of that Lady in the afternoon, and this, in addition to
good chocolate and best buns, attracted to other anxious to know what happened. Doña Flora, and he
could not inspire a passion formal, or removed off the heavy grief of his fifty years, that role
had not exchanged for another any difference as the general center of the news at that time
was almost equivalent to the majesty a throne.

Dona Francisca Dona Flora and cordially hated, you understand who
consider militarism exalted one and the timidity of the other peaceful.

Therefore, talking with his cousin on the day of our arrival, the old saying:

"If you had always ignored your wife, you'd still be a midshipman. What character! If I were
a married man and woman like, burst like a bomb. You have done well not to follow your advice
and come to the square. You're still young, Alonsito, you can still achieve the rank of brigadier,
who'd already Paca sure if I had not taken a fits as the chickens do not leave the yard. "

Then,
as my master, driven by his curiosity, asked you news, she said:

"The main thing is that all the sailors here are very unhappy with
the French admiral, has proved its ineptitude in the trip to Martinique
and in combating Finisterre.

This is shyness, and fear that has the English who come here to the squad combined Last August
did not dare to seize the British cruiser sent by Collingwood, and only consisted of three
ships. All our officers are very sorry for being obliged to serve
command of such a man.

Gravina was in Madrid to tell Godoy, providing large slights if she did not head of the fittest
man squad, but the Minister replied anything, because they dare not solve anything, and as
Bonaparte he's involved with the Austrians, while he has not decided ... They say he is also very
unhappy and has Villeneuve determined to dismiss him, but in the meantime ... Ah! Napoleon
should entrust the command of the fleet some Spanish, you, for example,
Alonsito, giving three or four degrees of Mogollon, which a well-deserved
faith you have them ...

- Oh, I am not for that - my master said
with his usual modesty.

- O or Gravina, who say it is as good sailor.

If not, I fear this will end badly. Here can not see the French.

Imagine that when Villeneuve came lacked boats of food and ammunition in the arsenal they are
not wanted to.