 

Style, language, versification, like German there is no shock, and not sure that is a paragon
Faust. We speak of the disposition of the fable and characters.

Imagine, for a moment that Faust sees Marguerite and feel in love with her before to rejuvenate,
that for the sake of Margarita, a pair of ambition and desire of pleasures makes the covenant;
what then happens, it happens the same way, and after the cruel death of Margarita, Faust cries,
repent, do penance, mocking Mephistopheles and goes to heaven. So the legend would have it
all in a single tragedy and not two. The work thus regularly win and unity, but lost in grandeur.
It was necessary, therefore, that the love of a woman by cute and innocent it was, would not the
main reason that wise as large as Faust devilish that way. And it was necessary that the first
tragedy and should give presuppose things and prepare the second, leaving not a few loose
ends related then each other. Do not we look now at these ends.

Isolated the fable of the loves of Faust and Marguerite, disposition and development deserve more
praise than censure. Faust, with all the ardor and impetuosity of his youth renewed passion the simple
and beautiful girl, and want to achieve soon, without hindrance or daunt him reflect on bad
consequences. Mephistopheles, out of the jewelry takes this to Margarita, just uses more resources
to aid seduction, which could be used a list of our old servant swashbuckling comedy. That
is how it should. If Fausto love that inspires some artifice or prestige intervene diabolical
beauty this love, most of his poetry, and even further under, redeeming and sanctifying would
vanish. The birth of this love unfold and reach its climax in the soul Margarita innocent, are
made merely human, profoundly observed in reality and then with higher beauty expressed in
the dramatic fiction. The simplicity and naturalness language and the precision and concision
of Goethe's style, where no strike, where there redundancy, or vain pomp, nor false and overloaded
lyricism, giving everything he says Margarita seductive charm. This charm is the mystery of Margaret,
from the opening scenes, purchase such a life and stand out with such truth of the picture and the
soul of a poet who creates, who has self, and is recorded in a wide indelible memory as if it had
existed.

His mother does not appear. Goethe has the good sense not dejárnosla see, but his mother exists.
Not like in our old comedies, where there is almost never a mother. Instead of the mother puts
the poet to a very funny, and well characterized: a neighbor, and years, vulgar, fond of talking,
devoted false, and other bad qualities that make it suitable for mediate any gallant intrigue.
Mephistopheles dialogs with Martha, that's the name this woman, have great comic force: now when
Mephistopheles brings the news of Martha death of her husband, now when the compliment and
love