 

With the smog, the snarling drunk again, and cleared his throat, and coughing, as if trying to
remember yes. The blind did not make him more attention than a dog, attentive only to their
prayers in that language know whether it was Arabic or Hebrew, covering one eye in each hand,
and lowering them later on mouth to kiss. Median time spent in meditation, and when finished, was
sitting before him with eyes slut lloricones elusive and, because of the itching caused by
the thick incense, looked at him. Seriously presenting palms, Almudena I let these words:

"Great
pick, not having more than one God ... b'rracha, b'rrachona not be
more than one God ... a God, a God alone, alone.

"

He dropped another hearty laugh, and touching his chest, he wanted to clean up the mess concerned
that the hand of his roommate had caused in that part interesting of person. Clumsy sleep out alcoholic
who could not quite put everything in its site or to cover the modesty seeks and ever sought
to be covered. "Jai, you I've arregistrao.

- Yes ... Not have more than one God, one God alone.

- And to me,
what?

For me who have already two or forty, all that they themselves want to have ... But tell me, sponger,
I've removed the peseta. I do not care. Pa ti era.

- A God alone! ".

And seeing him take the stick, put women on guard, saying, "Hey, do
not hit, Jai.

Enough and of incense, and get to make dinner. How much money do you have? What do you bring?
...

- B'rrachona! diniero failing ... Take the Embaixador, you sleep.

- What do you bring? - Murmured the black woman staggered and closing
his eyes -.

Aguárdate a little bit. I have dream, Jai. "

He fell back into deep sleep, and Almudena, which had required the club with intentions using
it as an infallible remedy for drunkenness, took pity and sighed hard, muttering these or similar
words: "Paste you another day."

VI

Almost is not hyperbole to say that the Sena Benina, after leaving Santa Casilda, possessing
incomplete hard that calmed his mortal anguish, going in rounds, and street crossings as an arrow.
With sixty years back, kept his agility and alertness, coupled with
perseverance inexhaustible. He had spent the best of life in an eager
rush, which required much activity as a prank, crazy efforts of the
mind and muscles, and that teaching was fortified in body and spirit,
it formed the special temple woman will know who read this timely
story of his life. With amazing alacrity entered in a drugstore in
the Calle de Toledo, collected medicines had ordered early in the
morning, then did stop at the butcher shop and grocery store, carrying
her shopping distinct wrapping paper, and finally entered a house
in Imperial Street, near the Rinconada that is the True almotacén
and Contrast