 

Don Marcelo became accustomed gradually to the shooting, which appeared to create a vacuum within
his skull. Gnashed his teeth, clenched his fists at every blast, but remained motionless, no
desire to leave, dominated by the violence of the explosions, admiring the serenity of these
men who gave their orders straight and stirred cold or as humble servants thundering beasts around.

All
his ideas seemed to have blown up, blown by the first shot.

Your brain only live the present moment. Eyes turned strongly to the red and white flag waving
on the building.

"It is a betrayal - he thought - a disloyalty."

Far away, across the Marne, also threw the French guns. It was evident work by small yellowish clouds
floating in the air, columns smoke that arose in various parts of the landscape, where German
troops were hidden form a line that was lost in the infinite.

An atmosphere of protection and respect seemed to wrap the castle.

Dissolved the morning mists, the sun was finally shining and clean your disk, extending on the
ground the shadows of men and trees with a fantastic length. Emerged from the fog hills and forests,
fresh and dripping after morning ablutions. The valley remained entire exposed. Desnoyers saw
with surprise the river from the place he occupied. The barrel open during the night had large
windows in the woods that they had hidden. What surprised him most morning contemplating this
landscape, smiling and childish, it was not seeing anyone absolutely nobody. Thundering peaks
and trees, without showing a single person. Over a hundred thousand men should be lurking in space,
covering his eyes, and not one was visible. The roar deadly weapons to shake the air did not
stop it no optical fingerprint. There was no smoke that the explosion lifted the black spiral large
shells exploding in the ground. These columns arose from all sides. Encircled the castle as a
round of gigantic and black tops, but none were ordered out of the daring run forward to touch
the building. Don Marcelo was watching the flag. "It a betrayal, "he repeated mentally. But
while accepted by selfishness, seeing it a defense of his property.

The battalion had finished installing wall along the riverfront. Soldiers kneeling, supported
their rifles in loopholes and battlements. They seemed satisfied with this rest after a night
of fighting in retreat. All eyes seemed to be asleep open. Little by little dropped on the heels,
or seeking the support of the backpack. Sounded snoring in a short space of silence that left
the artillery. The officers, standing behind them, examining the landscape with their glasses
or spoke forming campaign groups. Some appeared disheartened, others furious at the setback
had been doing from the previous day, the most, remained peaceful, with the passivity of obedience.
The front line was immense: who could guess the end? ... They were removed and colleagues
elsewhere would be moving forward with a decisive move. Until the last instant no soldier knows
the fate of battles.

What hurt them was seen to all increasingly far from Paris.

Don Marcelo saw a circle of glass shine. It was a monocle fixed upon him with aggressive insistence.
A lieutenant thin, tight-waisted, which retained the same look of
officers he had seen in Berlin, a real junker, was a few steps, sword
in hand, behind of his men, as a pastor, grim and angry.

- What are
you doing here? - Said roughly.

He explained that he owned the castle. "Honestly?" Kept asking the lieutenant. "Yes, French ..."
The officer was hostile meditation, feeling the need to do something against this enemy. The
gestures and shouts of other officers pulled him to his reflections.

Everyone looked to him high, and the old are imitated.

From an hour before the air passed through dreadful roar enveloped in yellowish vapors, shreds of
cloud that seemed to carry inside a wheel turning frantic squeals. They were the heavy artillery
shells Germanic pulling several miles, sending his shot over the castle. Could not this be
what the officers interested. Contracted his eyelids to see better, and finally, near the edge
of a cloud made out a mosquito species injured by the sun shining. In the brief intervals of silence
hobbled, faint and far, reports of his presence. The officers shook their heads: "Franz." Desnoyers
felt the same. I could not imagine the two black crosses inside their wings. Saw two rings with the
thought tricolor, equal to the rounds that color cloaks flying butterflies.

Explained

the concern of the Germans. The French aircraft had been immobilized for a moment the castle, paying
no attention to the white bubbles exploding underneath and around him. In vain the cannon
immediate positions placed their shells. Turned rapidly away toward its starting point.

"You should have seen it all - thought Desnoyers -. We have noticed:
he knows what's here.

"

He guessed that was going to quickly change the course of events. All that had happened to then
in the early hours of the morning was irrelevant compared to what
would later.

He was afraid, irresistible fear of the unknown, while curious, anxiety, impatience is a danger that
threatens and just never arrive.

A loud explosion rang out of the park, but a short distance from the wall: something like to
a giant hack with an ax as big as his castle. Drinking flew through the air whole tree, multiple trunks
split in two, with hair black land of weeds, a stream of dust that obscured the sky. Some
rocks rolled down the wall.

The Germans shrunk, but without visible emotion. They knew this, awaiting his arrival, as inevitable
after seeing the plane. The flag with the red cross could not deceive the enemy gunners.

Don Marcelo had no time to recover from his surprise, a second blast closer the wall ... third
inside the park. He thought he had jumped suddenly to another world. He saw men and things through
a fantastic atmosphere raging, destroying cutting all the violence of its waves. Had remained motionless
with terror, and But not afraid. He had previously imagined fear in different ways. I felt an
emptiness in the stomach distressing. Repeatedly hesitated on his feet, as if someone pushes him
giving a blow to the chest to straighten immediately afterwards with a new blow back. An acid
smell spread in the environment, making breathing difficult, making eyes up to the sting of
tears. In contrast, the noises ceased to bother him: no existed for him. The guess on the air
waves in the shock of things, in the whirlwind stooped to men, but did not affect the interior.
Had lost ability to hear: the full force of his senses focused on the eyes. Her eyes seemed
acquire multiple facets, such as certain insects. He saw what was happening in front of his person,
at his side, behind him.

And witnessed amazing things, snapshots, as if all rules of life had just undergone a capricious
disorder.

An officer who was launched a few paces inexplicable flight. Began to rise, no lose their military
stiffness, with the helmet on his head, frowning, blond mustache and short, and color below chest
mustard, gloved hands that held a pair of binoculars and paper. But here ended their individuality.
The legs were gray spats left on the ground, lifeless, and empty bags, expelling the deflated its red
content.

The trunk, the violent rise, the bottom fell out as a pitcher, releasing their contents viscera.
Further, some gunners who were lying right appeared suddenly and motionless, smeared with purple.

The
line of infantry was smashed on the floor. The men were contracted to be less visible next to
the loopholes by poking their guns. Many had been placed the bag over the head or the back
to defend them from the shell helmets. If moved, was to fit best in the land, seeking dig your belly.
Several they had changed their position with a rapidity inexplicable. They were now lying on his back
and seemed to sleep. One had even opened the abdomen, showing between the rents meat loose fabric,
blue and red, which rose and swelled with bubbling expansion. Another had lost their legs. He
also saw eyes wide with surprise and pain, mouth round and black lips that seemed to shake
with a howl.

But no shouting, at least he heard their cries.

Had lost track of time. Do not know if this immobility had several hours or one minute. The only
thing that bothered him was the trembling of the legs, which could sustain ... Something fell behind
him. Debris rained down. Turning his head he saw his château. Tower had just steal half. The
boards were scattered in tiny fragments, the blocks crumbled, the
stone box of a window was loose and kept in balance as a rack.

The old timbers of the cap began to burn like torches.

The sight of the instantaneous change of ownership was impressed more than the ravages by death.
He realized the horror of the blind and implacable forces that raged around him. Life concentrated
in his eyes spread, down to your feet ... And started running, not knowing where to go, feeling
the same need to hide those experiencing men chained by the discipline
required to flatten the ground, to envy the soft invisibility of the
reptiles.

His instinct pushed him to the pavilion, but in the middle of the avenue the other cut him
off the amazing mutations. An invisible hand had just started a half backwards the roof. An entire
wall is folded canvas, forming a cascade of bricks and dust. Were exposed internal parts as well
as theater decor, the kitchen where he had eaten, the top floor with
the bedroom, still kept his bed unmade.

Poor women! ...

He stepped back, running towards the castle.

He remembered the cave where he spent locked overnight. And when he saw under the dark vault
had it for the best rooms, praising the wisdom of its builders.

The silence was returning underground hearing sensitivity. Heard by storm muffled by the distance
the bombardment of the Germans and the outbreak of the French shells. Came to his memory that
he had lavished praise the barrel of 75 without knowing more than by reference. And had witnessed
its effects. "Tira too well," he murmured. Soon time was about to destroy his castle was too much
perfection ... But soon repent of these lamentations of their selfishness. One idea is tenacious
as remorse had clung to his brain. It seemed that all that suffering was an expiation for the lack
committed in his youth. Had avoided serving his country, and was now involved the horrors of war,
with the humility of a passive and helpless, without the satisfactions the soldier, who can
fight back. I was going to die, he was sure, with a death disgraceful, inglorious one, anonymously.
The debris from their property will serve as grave.

And the certainty of death in the darkness like a rodent that is clogged the holes in her den,
began to make intolerable this shelter.

Remained above the storm. A clap of thunder seemed to burst upon his
head, and then the crash of a collapse.

A new shell had fallen on the building. Heard roaring in agony, screaming, headlong rush into
the ceiling. Perhaps the shell, with its blind fury, was torn to many of the dying who occupied
the rooms.

He feared being buried in the shelter, and jumps up the ladder to the underground. Al go through
the ground floor saw the sky through the broken roof.

From the edges hung pieces wood, wobbly bits of pavement, furniture arrested in the middle of its
fall. Stepped debris to pass through the hall, where there were rugs, tripped over broken and
twisted iron, beds fragments rained from the top of the building, believed to distinguish
members convulsive among the piles of rubble, heard distressing voices could not understand.

He
ran with the same yearning for light and air that pushes the castaway to the cover from the
bowels of the ship ... He had spent more time than he imagined from who took refuge in the
dark. The sun was high. He saw more bodies in the garden tragic and grotesque attitudes. The wounded
moaned bent or remained on the ground leaning back against a tree, with a painful silence. Some
had opened the backpack to get his bag and took care health healing the tears in his flesh. The
infantry fired their guns incessantly now. The number of shooters had increased. New groups
of soldiers entered the park: one with his sergeant at the front, others followed by an officer
carrying a revolver against his chest, as if he would guide to men.

Infantry was expelled from their positions along the river, coming to reinforce the second line
of defense. The guns joined the tac-tac of the loom in motion snap the rifle.

Space whistling, scratching incessantly by a swarm abejorreo invisible. Thousands of blowflies
sticky Desnoyers moved around without sees them. Crusts tree jumped, driven by hidden nails;
rained leaves, stirred the branches with balancing contradictory departed the paving stones,
impelled by a mysterious foot. All inanimate objects seemed to take a fantastic life. The
zinc buckets of soldiers, the metal parts of your computer, cubes of artillery, rattling alone
as if they received a hail impalpable. He saw a gun lying with broken wheels and high, and many
men who seemed to sleep, he saw soldiers tended and folded the head
without a cry, without a twitch, as if sleep instantly dominate.

Other howled crawling or walking with hands on belly and buttocks touching the floor.

The old man felt a sharp sensation of heat.

An explosive perfume drug stabbing mourn him and scratched his throat. At the same time was cold,
he felt his face frozen in an icy sweat.

Had to depart from the bridge. Several wounded soldiers to spend with them into the building,
notwithstanding that it fell into ruins. Suddenly received a liquid spray head to foot, as if the
earth opened, giving way to a torrent.

A shell had fallen into the pit, raising a huge column of water, blowing into fragments tents
sleeping in the mud breaking a part of the edges, turning white powder balustrade with vases
flowers.

Was launched to run with the blindness of terror, looking suddenly to a small circle of Crystal looked
at him coldly. It was the junker, the officer's monocle. Relapsed into their hands ... He
pointed to the end of his gun two blocks that were in walking distance. Should fill in the gap and
give drink to his men, suffocated by the sun. The imperious tone brooked no argument, but Don
Marcelo tried to resist. Is serving as a servant to the Germans? ... His surprise was short.
Received a blow from the butt of the gun in the chest and while the other hand Lt. closed fell
on his face.

The old man bent: he wanted mourn, I wanted to die. But neither wept nor life slipped away
from his body before this affront, as he wished ... Was seen with two buckets in their hands filling
in the pit, then going along the line of men, who left the gun to suck the liquid with panting
eagerness beasts.

Caused him no longer fear the stridency of invisible bodies. His wish was to die, I knew that
was bound to die. His sufferings were too: in the world there was no space for him. Had to go to
breaches in the wall by the explosion of shells.

No remaining obstacles to his vision for these breaks. Fences and trees were modified or deleted
with artillery fire. Distinguished at the foot of the hill that was in his castle several columns
of attack that had crossed the Marne. The assailants were detained by the heavy fire from
the Germans. Hopped by companies, lying in the shelter after of the folds of the land to let the
blast of death.

The old man was encouraged by a desperate resolution, and that he would die, who killed him French
bullet. And walked upright, with his two buckets, lying to those men fired. Then, with sudden awe, stood
still, burying his head between his shoulders, thinking that the bullet that was a danger he
could receive less for the enemy. Was better Germans to be killed ... And he began to cherish
the idea mentally to pick up a weapon any of the dead, falling on the junker he had slapped.

For the third time I was filling buckets and looked back at the lieutenant, when it happened something
unlikely, absurd, something that reminded him of the fantastic cinema mutations. Suddenly disappeared
officer's head, two blood pumps jumped from his neck and the body collapsed like an empty sack.
At the same time a cyclone passed over the wall between it and the building, toppling trees,
dumping guns, taking people as if they were swirling leaves.

He guessed that the death was blowing in a new direction. Until then I had come from the front,
part of the river, breaking the enemy line bermed on the wall. Now, with the suddenness of atmospheric
change, coming from the back of the park. A skillful movement of the assailants, the use of a lane,
maybe a retreat the German line, had allowed the French to drop their guns in a new position,
flank beating the occupants of the castle.

It was fortunate for Don Marcelo slowing few minutes at the edge of the trench, sheltered by the
mass of the building. Dash battery went to hide along the avenue, sweeping the living, destroying a
second time to the dead, killing the horses, breaking the wheels parts, blowing a gun-carriage
with flames of a volcano, in which red and blue background black
bodies leaping.

He saw hundreds of fallen men, saw horses running treading guts. The harvest of death had not
been for sheaves: whole field was smooth with sickle-one punch. And if the batteries in front divined
the disaster, stepped meanwhile the fire, sending a rain of shells. Fell on all sides. Beyond the
castle, at the end of the park, opened a crater in the woods that
vomited whole logs.

The projectiles pulled from their graves to the dead buried yesterday.

Those who had not kept throwing down the wall openings. Then they got up to precipitation. About arming
the bayonet, pale, her lips tightened and a brightness of madness in the eyes, others turned their
back, running toward the park exit, ignoring the cries of the officers and to the revolver
shots made against the fugitives.

All this happened with dizzying speed, as a nightmarish scene. Across the wall sounded like the
hum rising tide. He heard screaming, he thought he heard voices hoarse and discordant singing the
Marseillaise. The guns worked with speed, as machines sewing. The attack was about to get stuck
again by the furious resistance. The Germans, mad with rage, threw and threw. In a gap appeared red
kepi, legs of the same color trying to pass on the rubble. But the vision faded instantaneously
under the spray guns.

The attackers should fall in heaps on the other side of the wall.

Desnoyers did not know with certainty how the mutation was performed. Suddenly he saw the red trousers
within the park. Passed with irresistible jump over the wall, slid down the gaps, fund came
from the woods by invisible entries. Soldiers were small, square, sweaty, with his coat unbuttoned.
And mixed with them in the clutter load, handles African devil's eyes and foaming mouths, wide
breeches Zouaves, hunters blue uniform.

German officials wanted to die. With his sword held high, after having exhausted the shots of their
guns, they advanced against the assailants, followed by the soldiers who have obeyed them. There
was a crash, a hodgepodge. The old man thought the world had fallen into silence. The cries of
the combatants, the encontrón of bodies, the din of arms, not represented
anything after the guns had fallen silent.

He saw men stuck in the belly at the end of a rifle, while a red tip sticking out through your
kidneys, butts in high falling like hammers opponents embraced rolling on the floor, pretending
mastered with kicks and bites. Gone are the mustard-colored breasts, only saw color behind the
fleeing toward the exit of the park, filtering through the trees, falling in mid-career hit
by bullets. Many of the attackers wanted to pursue the fugitives and could not, engaged in rude
jerks release with a bayonet of a body that held in agonizing spasms.

Soon found Mr. Marcelo in the midst of these fatal crashes, jumping like a child shaking hands,
shouting loudly. Then he woke again, bearing in his arms dusty head of a young officer looked
at him in amazement. Maybe you thought a fool to receive his kiss, to hear their incoherent words,
to receive on their cheeks a rain of tears. He kept crying when the officer came off rude shove
him ... needed to vent after many days of quiet agony: Vive la France!

His men were already at the park entrance. Ran ahead with a bayonet in monitoring of the last
remnants of the German battalion that escaped into the town.

A group of riders spent on the road. Dragons were coming for extreme persecution. But his horses
were exhausted, only the fever of victory, which seemed to be transmitted from men the beasts, and
held his trot forced and painful. One of these riders were stopped by the park entrance. The
horse eagerly devoured a few weeds, while the man stood hunched in his chair as if asleep.
Desnoyers touched on one hip, he wanted to wake him, and immediately
rolled to the opposite side.

He was dead, guts hanging out of his abdomen. So he advanced on his horse, trotting confused
with others.
Began to fall near tops huge iron and smoke. German artillery had
fire on their lost positions. Continued progress. Passed battalions,
squadrons, batteries, towards the North, tired, dirty, covered in
dust and mud, but with a inflaming galvanizing forces nearly exhausted.
The French guns began to throne by the people.

Groups of soldiers
were exploring the castle and the trees immediately. Room in ruins
of the depths of the caves, thickets of the park, stables and garages
on fire, men were emerging green with her head pointed