 El
Tato was a great friend, he was wanted when his uncle was away, laughing their thanks apprentice
bullfighter. Gabriel, with her illness, her mysterious withdrawal and history confused of his great
journeys around the world, not least inspired interest. To speak with marked deference to the
old Wooden Staff, being male and being widowed. As I said the dog catcher, pants returned the
poor crazy in that house where the majority of men wore skirts.

Don Gabriel Antolin had known him as a child and tuteaba. In the ignorant priest persisted even
the memory of the great successes achieved by Luna at the seminar, and the poor see and patient,
taking refuge in the cathedral almost alms, his familiarity of superiority was not exempt a certain
admiration. Gabriel, meanwhile, feared the Silver Stick, knowing their fanaticism intolerant.
For this was limited to listening, making sure that their conversations are not slip a word
that reveals his past. It would be the first to demand his expulsion from the cathedral, and
he wanted to live there unknown and silent.

When meeting in the morning in the cloister the two men dealt with
the same question:

- How's health?

Gabriel was optimistic. He knew his condition was hopeless. But that quiet life and unemotional,
and continuing care of his brother, almost by force feeding all hours,
like a bird, had a strut to his health ruined.

The course of the disease was slower: the death was hampered.

-
I'm better, Don Antolin .... And yesterday, how was your day?

Silver Stick had its hands dirty and bone in the depths of his cassock, taking three thick
stubs, one red, one green and the third white.

He spent the leaves, consulting folios of which had torn. He cherished books respectfully,
as if be more important for the worship of the great books of the choir.
- Lazy day, Gabriel! It's winter, and now travels a few people. The
high season is in spring, when, say, enter the English and Gibraltar.
Go to the fair in Seville then come and take a look for our cathedral