 

In the early days, candle plant had not even raised the moral issue at that time increased his torment.
But when the first momentum of the pain began to subside naturally, as he had to get used to so
fatal to the idea of ??death as all the forces of his soul were concentrated to collect, to
guard, to immortalize the memory of being that had moved away never to return, his mind began
to point the reflection of whether the death that would blend of blind hatred and his desire
for revenge. At the instant the bullet across his murderous meats, closed his eyes to the light,
had appeared in your brain in the shadow of a reproach? Could it have been the last thought
reprehensible your life?

When candle plant is making these questions, the answer was not for him doubtful: the deceased
had forgiven. And he should he, in turn, to forgive? If I wanted to be worthy of it, ought not
to follow their example?

...

Sometimes she closed her eyes and leaned her forehead, invaded by memories of their good instruction,
almost ashamed to have forgotten for a moment. Sometimes rebelled: life can not wholly of
love! If evil is opposed to the pardon, what is the prize right? ... But then came to his mind
the words of his beloved: "If forgiveness is not given to evil, if he also opposes evil, where
is the good when you applied? "She also said you have to love justice, but this alone is not enough
in life. Since creatures human sin are too weak even when they have foreknowledge of their sins,
it is necessary be lenient with the sum too large for their mistakes. "Justice is not forgiving
is just !...» he had replied, and she: "Justice is powerless strict:
only goodness can overcome evil.

"

He had nodded. Why had she consented? Had not been truthful at that time? And if truly had reason,
if no ulterior motive had received his word, ought not forgiving in that trance? By not forgiving
was because then I had not been sincere, had pretended to earn it,
to overcome it!

What should accuse him of hypocrisy last or weakness present?

That question came to believe that the truth is not always the same, that the contrasts of
life put man in opposition to itself without being able to impute bad faith. No, there was no
lied to recognize that goodness is necessary: ??not showing, only to recall his preaching of forgiveness,
he'd understand? But how to accept it when his reason, his passion, his whole being wanted and
would necessarily want the punishment? Then I heard the following words, as clearly and as firm
as when she had uttered the "Truth is one: recognize it at all is
worth little, and it is not worthwhile if you do not assert against
our own interests ... "

One night he saw: he was met with arms outstretched, hands open, face
raised to heaven, and uttered the word "right."

The illusion was so intense that the young woke up with eyes full of tears.

But awake, thinking that in future had to be content only with vain views of dreams, I felt revolted
by the momentum of vengeful passion.

Wandering the places where he had been with her, still looking for
some of it under heaven again to hear that voice saying very softly:
"Forgive."

And he said: "I can not."

I could not. Sincerely forgive with the heart, could not, could not ever. But let justice to
proceed in its own way, he would refrain from intervening? Or sure as was the new deception, should
not reveal it?

The fear of desecrating the memory of your love stopped him. But do not you desecrate had already
left? Do not want to hear the voice of forgiveness, had no need for the dead to forgive him? ...
To sustain the charge against him was necessary Zakunine explain that he had been jealous had
believed him and founded his jealousy. That was not possible. What to do?

"Sorry," the voice kept saying.

And he heard, and not in secret, not in sleep, but clearly, in full
light.

One day wandering in the same mountain where he had served as a guide to his new sister, found
himself in front the chapel that she had not been open with his weak
hand.

The door was closed, as ever. The young man stood trembling, her eyelashes fluttered on burning
eyes. In the rusty key crude had settled her white hand. Wanted to open, then held, afraid to
erase the traces of his hand. But his arm is extended again, and
the door groaned on its hinges.

Her trembling increased. There, in the chapel he saw before him, kneeling, head bowed, hands together,
turned toward the altar, covered with a dress the color of fire ...

Candle plant fell to his knees, breaking to mourn. And amid their cries distinctly heard the voice
would say, "Sorry ..."

The next day I called the judge.

It was the first time was before the judge from the day he, after
triumphing over their arguments, he had said he believed suicide.

The young man was extreme confusion, not knowing what they could
want from him yet.

- I needed first and foremost - Ferpierre said
- to acknowledge my error and tell you he was right.

It was providential that you insisted on the prosecution, in spite
of the evidence, because without the insistence of you without the
confidence that saw him animated, I would probably Hand made further
investigations which have led me to discover the truth.

No doubt this time you already know what happened, but I wanted to personally confirm that your
friend has been murdered. The Natzichet has confessed his crime, and Principe, was silent in
the hope to save her, has confirmed his confession.

Roberto candle plant remained silent and confused.

- Are you happy now?

The young man replied.

- Have you provided a service to justice. Without you, the murder would have gone unpunished, or
worse, an innocent man would have paid the fault of others. There was a guilty and instinct I noticed
that you do not deceive: the only difference is that the charges you against the Prince have
proved unfounded.

Ferpierre again paused a moment to give candle plant time to say something,
and then as he continued silent, he continued:

- Prince could not
desire the death of the Countess when he came to love with a passionate
love and shy at once, compelling, a rebel like him to abandon his
revolutionary propaganda, to renounce their past, their political
faith, their accomplices.

And that was because I knew you estimated and obtained the affection
of the Countess, that affection before he disdained.

So reasons the human heart ... Then he saw his partner lost, not
only for the match but even for herself, because she loved him and
suffered at the thought that there was another, to be confident that
love is risen.

It was in search of the rival, to let him enforce it, and they had she ended a stormy explanation
to the crime. Everything he confessed.

There was a pause of the judge, which opposed candle plant still silent.

-
Are you happy? - Asked the judge.

- Why do you ask?

And the two men stared.

- Should you be happy, I think, had avenged his friend's memory, confusing
the inmate and obtaining the triumph of truth and justice.

Both turned to look in silence.

- And you are not happy ?...-- candle plant said finally.

In the judge's question had been a sort of incitement, almost a provocation to say entirely
his secret thoughts, as if their secret thought was the same judge.

- I have no passion to meet - he answered .-- One Love guides me: the love of justice ...

- If you have done justice ...

- Do you doubt?

- I do not doubt ... play

- Are you saying then that I should doubt? So why ... You have reported a crime: the crime
is proved.

You have not been able to tell which of two possible perpetrators of the crime were truly guilty,
given that both were capable of committing a crime: the guilty are accused itself! ... Would
you perhaps say that the confession alone is not enough? I know!
But That is when it is not proven.

A fool can declare an offender, but can not give reasons for its
action, or explain your circumstances.

But here Is not it explained everything? "The declaration confirms the other not? ... Or do
you deny faith to the test?

- Yes - broke candle plant, whose doubts had grown to express precisely
Weird being strengthened by the judge's questions .-- Yes, you deny
faith, as you are also the denied, because that statement is not disinterested,
since he had that look in your own freedom, because only a madman
can not declare an offender who has not committed, but who wants to
sacrifice ...

- So, you argue?

...

- I argue - added the young man quickly, as if to not take the time to think about what he said, and
was beat to talk to himself - argue that this woman sacrificed for
love sectarian zeal, that the murderer takes advantage of his sacrifice
to ensure impunity.

I say the murderer is he who can not be other than him ...

Yes,
candle plant had to say that.

The silent voice of forgiveness, that voice had never spoken.

What had been a dream, a hallucination. The truth was otherwise: the beloved lay underground,
his blood stains had not been cleared yet, the requested blood revenge, and he should get it.

-
Why do not you said before? Why hesitated at first?

- Why did not yet know, because I had not thought enough, because
you do not believe in crime and they identified all my strength to
deny suicide.

- "So not only would have killed this man, but to let
his infamy would condemn an innocent?

- Are you surprised?

Is not it natural that this man is full of joy?

- That idea is horrible! I understand what blind hate you, but I'm not blind. This Man is not as evil
as you believe: in life there are acts of courage, and his attitude in the presence the body and
in the early days of the prison has not been a joy.

- In the early days ... What about others?

Upon hearing that question, the judge thought for a moment before answering.

It was true. When the nihilistic confessed, he had given immediate credit to his confession; but
doubt was beginning to assault him again.

If the girl was sacrificed, what value should agree to his confession and confirmation of it by
Prince? ... However, he had again questioned one and another, separately
and together, and both had remained firm in their statements.

In the confrontation they had found some contradictions: while assuring Natzichet that at the height
of his explanation with the countess, hearing the voice of Prince troubled I called, had fired
the shot, afraid to show him and he had not been submitted another opportunity to get rid
of his rival, Prince said, however, have gone when he heard the shooting from afar. Again placed
facing each other, had Natzichet corrected, stating that he thought
he heard her voice, but certainly in his excitement he was mistaken.

Other small details Ferpierre had affirmed the suspicion that, as
in previous interrogation, in that the girl also somewhat took the
initiative of the explanation the drama, and urged the Prince to follow,
but, nevertheless, was determined to send to judges to the public
debate had just shed light on the mystery.

Before that, however, had wanted to call candle plant to see if he
too doubted, to discuss with him his new suspicion.

- In the early
days were oppressed by the pain - he replied, after examining all
mentally that again, - but then saw that the prison made him suffer.

-
Do you see? - Said candle plant .-- At first realized the error of
his crime, and later saw that their freedom was safe.

The media has been too easy!

So also thought Ferpierre.

One man, who suddenly happened several drives, which was not totally incapable of doing good, but that
was due more advances rapidly to evil, had been, without doubt, next
to confess, but the available had changed his mind at any moment,
and then yearns for freedom, had no qualms about holding on to the
raft.

- If he is so outrageous, does it mean that the hero has a
heart Natzichet?

- What prevents you admit it?

Far from denying it, the judge had expressly recognized by the ardor of their faith, the tenacity
of her feelings, she was capable of heroism.

- But how to surprise? His explanation of the crime was complete!

He had two reasons for commit: love and fanaticism.

- Does one and one should not advise that could save the man she loved and the fellow?

This was also true.

If the Prince had died at the Countess, she was trying to save, much
love for humanity, for love of the game.

- Well, but what about the
test?

- Ah!

Test! We must find it yet!

- Well then, while we found that test, so why do you insist on his suspicion, as I return to
my first opinion.

- Why?

- Because! I come to believe that the Countess had been killed!

- After they admit the existence of the crime?

- And how do you support? You do not know how, under what circumstances has pleaded guilty Natzichet!
He confessed when I told her that the Prince had confessed! I was lost and wanted save!

- And that does not show you in a lighthearted manner that he, only he is the murderer?

- But he has admitted nothing! It was I who said that, as of desperation!

- And do not you see that telling the truth! - Argued candle plant .-- If I had known this woman Zakunine
was innocent, he would have laughed to hear you! I would not have believed it! Would have discovered
trick!

How could he believe that his friend had ever confessed a sin committed by him? If this woman
believed what you said, this means that subconsciously you said the truth. And he wanted to save
him, because he has been really lost!

Ferpierre not answer.

I was astonished at not having done so obvious observation that among many others. And I felt
full weight of the clearest observation, and saw further that if it was for the truth he had
been misled by a false path.

- Hypothesis or presumption as all the others! - Suddenly exclaimed, eager to deny, Amid the confusion,
the importance attached inside the words of the young. All we do is to move from one scenario to another,
if the Countess has not been killed, has been murdered, and if you have not been killed, death
has come into their own hands! The crime is the work of the nihilist, if not committed by Zakunine,
if the nihilist is innocent, is Zakunine the offender! The passion of you not a test! Until you
bring me a valid proof of their passionate statements, we want to
be very severe with defendants, we can not do otherwise than acquit
them both, for lack of evidence!

And almost abruptly, he said he could retire.

When he was alone gave the order to not let anyone else. The gravity of his thoughts at that time
and the annoyance felt against himself, not allowed to deal with another matter.

The observation he had made candle plant was very just: How to deny
its value?

If so many questions had conceived and himself on the confession of Natzichet, why not admit it?
Was the most significant of all.

So, then, the passion of the young serving of something, whereas cold blood he was obliged
to show it was no use, since the young man who see more clearly?

Certainly, without the artifice he had employed with the nihilistic, the Prince and she would continued
to deny, hide behind the likelihood of suicide. It was also clear that of the two, the most careful
of salvation had been common since the early days, Natzichet. In all interviews had struggled
visibly to push Prince to defense.

There were acknowledged to be his mistress and he was required to confirm this statement, eager
to prevent the discovery of the resurrection of his love for the Countess, resurrection could
be suspected that the cause of the crime were jealousy. Then, believing Zakunine jealous and
had pleaded guilty, had invented their own involvement between the
two actors the drama.

Is the silence and sadness Zakunine could not be, was not, remorse the culprit? Whatever it was, the
Prince had shown during the first days perhaps in so much pain force, indifferent to their fate.

All
this made Ferpierre think they really had made a mistake when using your scheme against the
young man should have said rather that the Natzichet Prince pleaded guilty. And he should
have said when Zakunine was still under the weight of pain, then
probably would not have tolerated someone else suffer for it, and
have confessed the truth.

The truth! ... If this was the real truth, how do you know?

Since I wanted Natzichet save the Prince, would not have done, after it had actually confessed
guilty, as he did when he heard the judge's cunning story? And then, accusing a and another, the
confession would have been higher! Or who knows if the confrontation would have been fruitful!

But the confrontations were useless. Determined to take advantage of the generosity of the young
Zakunine recognized her guilty, and since she insisted in his confession, how belie?

Ferpierre thought to recall the Natzichet and say: 'Do you believe
you have saved?

Far from that, I lost you! Why did you confess? Why I told him myself had confessed he had
killed the Countess? Well, that's not true, he has not confessed to anything! I have told a lie.
But now I see I thought this lie is true, and yourself, without meaning, or rather, wanting the opposite,
I have tried it. If there been lying, you would have laughed to hear it. And instead, you trembled
for him, and has tried to save him, but in vain ... "

But Ferpierre stopped abruptly, anticipating that she would not have
gone unanswered: "I laughed at the lie, because instead of laughing
had to cause me grief.

Believing that you I told the truth, accusing Zakunine thought for saving me, and as he is
innocent and I I'm the culprit, I laughed, but trembled and told
you the truth ... "

What answer that? And how to test it lying? ...
What if I lied? If he was really guilty? If their conduct was not
of a hero saving, but a confessed offender? What was the reason not
to believe really guilty? Could have been so ably built and described
with so many colors a false outcome of the drama, which had known
tell a heap of lies in a voice so distraught, his face so sincere?

Then
again Ferpierre measure likely to deepen the assumptions, to rebuild
the task of all those days, stopping and in one, and in another scenario,
recognizing once again the intractable difficulties of the case.

Should
he resign positively to any further investigation? Should we actually
lose hoping to get irrefutable proof? And how long complete the vain
and file? "Rejecting the allegation, stating that the Countess had
been killed, and that the accused is Natzichet only by the fear of
seeing sentenced the prince, although he was as innocent as he, and
For this reason, versions of one and the other had not agreed? ...
Or back to the hypotheses, and excluded the most unlikely, that both
were guilty, that Natzichet had helped her lover to execute the murder
to the theft by phone, and treated after to save him, accusing?

Each
of these conclusions repugnant to the magistrate, but it needed to
be decided by some, and thought to make one last attempt about two
Russians, when, despite had given orders, he heard knocking on the
door. The usher, apologizing for the offense, gave a statement of
the attorney general, two underlined words in a corner of the envelope
indicated that communication was urgent.

Ferpierre idly broke the
envelope, because nothing seemed urgent if not leave a situation as
ambiguous. Inside were two roles: a telegram and a note from the attorney
general. This he wrote:

"I transmit to you immediately at the office
that just received from the Swiss Consul in Edinburgh