 

XII

Faltábame know, between what was not unknown to avail me in this
vast and untamed region, leaving the valley of the river basin to
its outlet, which would have completed I traverse the backbone of
the Cantabrian Mountains on one of its most significant vertebrae;
and as fully in those days I was in the vein of exploration and running
around, though, God knows, rather than by desire for curiosity, for
fear of enervating inaction opposite the formidable enemy, rode an
early morning in the hairy hack how sensibly I had brought and led
by the rugged mountain's most dangerous, and, of himself and deliberate
attempt, alone and without other guide than instinct and long experience
the honest quadruped, plus some reports that I had provided speech
the night before in the party of my uncle went through the ruined
bridge linking both sides of the short Nansa distance of the house,
and set off along the well trodden path by wriggling the slope of
the hill, accompanying the constant sound of running water in the
invisible channel gloomy background to many sticks under my feet.

I doubted that, after what he had seen in the high mountains, the basin had river from Tablanca down
anything that might captivate my attention, and it did, in effect: while being rough, narrow
and untamed in its highest part, lacked the greatness stunning gorges 'up'. The people, crowded
together, in separate Rinconada throat, were going my way with the regularity of a railway
station. One more sunny that few had left behind, suddenly appeared to my view a small valley
at the foot of a hill very fast, why my hack down step by step through a maze of old and copudos
admirable oak that seemed placed there to keep forest lands attached to the skeleton: the slope
was so bitter.

Come to Happy Valley, though a little back pain myself, for the continued effort done with it
to preserve the body in the vertical line on the horse, parallel
the ground, I knew that the people discerned by me during the descent
through the thick gaps colonnade of trunks, was Robacio.

I remembered then and Chisco Neluco, and I assumed that the the first house would be a big
"four waters", which was not far from the road, and I assumed However, according to his response
to a question I did a clean handsomest muchachuco face and clothing, playing with others of
more humble coat, in a next brañuca the portal. Answering my question, leave the game and go
to open the shutter, while the other little boys, suspense and some cut, I watched with eyes wide
open, was all one, and no sooner had reared its head in the corral, when there began to shout:

-
Mother! ... Madreee! Here is a man who comes home!

And if that was not enough, undid the latch from inside the gates,
and opened wide so as to pass me without dismount.

With this noise and clamor that, before just been amazed by the occurrence, I was on the porch
and in front of pitching me, a middle-aged woman, good and healthy meat color, and the modest
attire homemade ordinarily used everyday wealthy matrons of that region. With this, and find
pretty much in your face with that of Neluco not doubted that the woman was his sister. I alighted
from a jump, and without taking care of the horse, began, as he walked toward her with his hat
in hand, to get rid of excuses, to explain the event ... I was extremely pleased get to their
feet, know personally, to offer my respects, but this would have Indeed ... I thought so, at
other times less untimely ... on my return in the afternoon ... the fault was that little devil
that without giving me time to explain, had been quick to call ...

In all this, she looked me straight in the eye, until, without saying
it as I got to thinking say, his face bathed all rosy Noblot and a
huge smile that could be called if Smiles are measured as the area;
started toward me with both hands outstretched, and cutting off the
disjointed speech said suddenly:

- Virgin is my mother!

Nah, you is the nephew of Don Celso.

Declared that he was, and she continued, still holding my hand in hers:

- He knew me by Nah, you Neluco Aya who was, and why, and by air, and something that has said ...
and for these hearts that maybe has one ... Daughter, which I'm glad! ... Well, go! ... And
how is the poor Don Celso? ... Mal, I think, what we said Neluco ... Because Neluco is so loving and
so ... We, as apegao to yours, what time you have remaining in its obligation Robacio Catalan
... But what we do here plantificados on the portal? Suba rise, Don Marcelo, and rest as it should,
and will make him lunch ... Do not! Here we are all about. "Nah, you do not know? Did not
said Neluco? The mansion of Don Celso and our house ... Go!

... from parents to children is the esteem and good law and to the relationship, if a little dig
in the blood ...

I earned excuses, though I pondered over the day I had to do before
night, and who was embarrassed for her time.

- Tendral to spare -
the jovial matron told me and guiding me down the stairs - to the
work and as much again, if you know to take advantage of it, and I
do not believe it that waste time spent in comforting the body to
the mita of the way ... Go with it!

And the worst of the story is that it is "he" and not come away until
lunchtime, rather than less ... Go in the winter morio rigging that
broke the other month, and as having work hand misses to lose sight
... I do not really feel little when you know!

... Daughter, what a coincidence!

Well already Nah, you will see when going back this afternoon ... Although better off to stay
at let us eat and walk for another occasion ... Wow that is craving to reach the to the highway!
... Twice in my life I have set foot in it ... See if I'm correntona ... Well, well ...

Speaking for this art as he climbed the stairs and I followed step by step, rather than what impossible
to address it in his quaint talk, thought the resemblance was between her Lita's mother and not
only by the character, but by the style, not knowing me, then as I learned in time and meet
new people, which in that form and those Campeche and llanotes air, bubbles always generous and hospitable
spirit of ladies of that rugged mountain region.

At the top of the stairs, it was not long, entered the cruise ever, for all wealthy homes of
those heights, and even the equivalent of the lower valleys I known then seem to be made by
the same plane, except that I found the novelty of Robacio that caught my attention very nicely,
and was to have the walls of all passages literally covered, floor to ceiling, with strings of tassels,
which, being open doors and balconies and sun flooded the whole house glowed like oriental tapestries
embroidered gold and pearls.

I admire him even left the good sister Neluco because they rushed considering I walked among leading
to the hall and call out and get a maid, meanwhile, things in a cupboard and other things in
a closet, and put the first in the hands of the monsoon (Which did
not come as soon as she wanted) with a good string of warnings and
orders a low voice, and the second on a table that was in the room,
leaning against a wall, and walk back and forth without leaving me
all alone and never short of conversation, more closely or more away,
I found no time to think calmly at any point in to fix the attention.

At last he stopped and calmed the gale it, and picking up what had previously put on the table
and placing it temporarily in the chairs immediately, raised the wing it was free and folded,
not two, not needed as much space to myself, as was kind enough to warn me, lay on the resulting
board a snowy white tablecloth; put on it a bottle of wine, a solid silver covered and dated form,
two glasses, three plates piled up, a loaf of bread, still warm, as I said Mrs. complacent,
because there was still two hours I had baked the pen, a hard cheese,
sheep, and about half a miller of walnuts and hazelnuts.

Meanwhile, he kept talking to me, and I had many questions without waiting for each of them to receive
my reply, in whole, to the last. I asked, first and foremost by their relative Don Pedro Nolasco
and his daughter Mari Pepa, of the same age as her close friend from children, almost his sister,
because as sisters wanted ... Well what about Lita, Lituca? It was a seraph that something more
than woman.

How beautiful, how sharp, how industrious! If she were a man and young singles, I knew who to
marry, as you would like Lita. And his brother Neluco! ... Many times had told him! What do you
want the substance, man? What more could you wish for? ... If apareáis as print ... Ah, cold
bread satanincas! ... Tochu rather than tochu! When Lita would Robacio, was the joy of the house,
or canary in a cage of gold could be compared to it.

In these and other started to give me in the nose a pleasant smell of fried food, and with it
came a predator in the room about six years, with the snout very sticky and damaged doublet,
then Like other hair, but younger, then another less than two, then a little boy blonde, doe-eyed,
very lean of taps and long arms, behind her, another girl is brown carrilluda black eyes and
thick calves, which brought the hand of a little boy very cheerful to be reeling with their booties
walking bandy, and, finally, came the boy with his insolent diligence had been the cause of
what was happening there. All that offspring, appeared one by one, slowly and looking suspicious,
it was placing semicircle, very tight in front of me, and as they did not know what to say,
though I would asked a lot of nonsense, and his mother was naming
me the order of age, while The scolding, and not with great courage,
daring a rude, everyone entertained the time and carried the wrong
time as best he could: who pinching their noses, who scratched head
and who some part of his body lower and more back.

"But it does not - I said while his mother - which governs these dragged Satan? Nah, you put
them head to toe as May sun as it pulled out of bed every day, so Nah, you see them as the is a
half hour ... and if school is like today, being Thursday, is something you can not watch them
or tolerate them. Lord and heavenly Father, what creatures! ... But are they in good health that
is what matters, and others and will go out in time. Is not it true? ... Well, Now come here and Scoot
to the table ... excuse the miseriuca by goodwill So I offer it to lack of anything better. "

This
was said when they saw the maid with a big bowl in hand, containing two pairs fried eggs and a huge
amount of back and fried ham, with a corresponding fence potatoes.

There were the expected obstinacy on what little I met me, and how much she offered with generous
obstinacy, thinking that "left him for timidity." At last we compromise I take a little longer than
I needed, and handing the rest to what she offered, among the seven raptor with eyes that devoured
the succulent entertainment smoking on the table.

It also came as it up there and I was beginning to miss the talk of the sister Neluco, the thesis that
as usual I had the good people of these valleys, if I was enjoying the land of my forefathers,
the difference would find among those solitudes and the grandeur and fun to be seasoned in
Madrid ... and, finally, pity it would not take the valley of the good law that he deserved,
for, dead Don Celso, that she had to have already died, Tablanca remained without father and
without a shadow of protection. Y if I knew how well it was worth that shadow in that town,
and what they were being worth other like it since ancient times! To know well, you had to see what
was happening in other places that were not as passed and also Robacio, unfortunately. There was
no union and peace with one another, because of four covered by many others pushed around "Cabayerus
of aya out" that the people did not remember more than the chances of needing the backs of
those poor loose and clamber on the post that suited them, and Pipi to cluster like grapes. This
did not happen in Tablanca, where he was not a fly, nor did input those characters rather
than with your account and reason. It was nice that brotherhood each other, and that debt-free
municipality, and that neighborhood without hunger and well dressed. For all this fortune would
end up with Don Celso, if I am not encouraged to pick up the brakes
he would loose their hands to move to better life.

The uniqueness of this thesis, so groped by each other, was for me
the solemnity and depth the feeling that exposed me everywhere.

The same sister Neluco so funny and as jocular in their ripped speeches, formalized until moved
to exponérmela. Y this was the side where my attention more than one item, which was, moreover, degenerating
mania.

With the agreement and promises the usual diplomatic forced me to take in such cases, say for
finished item and with the pretext of the rush I had, finished lunch and the visit, not knowing
before the inexhaustible goodness of that incomparable woman, his older brother, lawyer of considerable
note, was married in Valladolid, and that Neluco that and for being too young and still walk
the Ceca to Mecca, had become partitions with her father's house, but like all brothers, because
Robacio lawyer down to almost every summer, and Neluco each day that it was possible.

Enjoyed it being a blessing from God when they were all together, young and old; and the more
crowded the better. And they were tight in those times often because though the house was great,
as were a lot of crops and livestock maze ... Virgin Mother how he liked these chores to your
husband! As with liking both, surely did not like more than her ...

Well these treats are revealed throughout the house, particularly downstairs. In the portal, where
you see the open doors of the stables, an oven with its roof protector, a well with the corresponding
utility room, large piles of firewood and a bullock cart under a shed, it smelled of hay, we heard
the shots and cattle and shearing cencerrillos imprisoned in the stables, and compass sideways
as the neglected, a large flock about a "club", gnawing at the bottom
of my horse, and tied to the pole desembridado with a rope by the
neck, the last grain of corn that I had entertained more Neluco nephew,
while her mother entertained me me in the room upstairs with eggs
and ham.

This statement was known by the same little boy, when I asked, very pleased, by the author of occurrence.
Encouraged by the success of it, went out of the pile of brothers, who had come down in droves
with her mother behind me, and in a trice flanges the hack after throwing scraps to the petty
flock of feed, took the tame beast the yard, and planted there, in due form, to ride me. As abbreviated
farewell I could condense my expressions of heartfelt thanks to the
greed, fear verbose luxuries Neluco's sister, who were causing the
most trivial to overflow; I rode fast slipping into the hand of the
little boy that I had a nickel bracket silver without his mother saw
him, a gift that filled him with astonishment and anxiety to redden
and let's face staggering, so it was very hard to open up the portal,
and saw as wide, paid with a smile and a recent hat offers the inexhaustible
matron brañuca went outside to hear the farewell from the inside "to
afternoon "; pique to hack mercilessly, and took the road down the
river like I pursue wolves from rabies.

I think, without being very sure of it for failing to fix the attention with great effort in the
table that there begins the actual widening of the basin and the river to take a break from the
fatigues of his rapid decline, tending to the long on good stretches nearly level and well
sunlit. I do remember well is that with the freedom that get these on widths, the river and the
road (to the left and it's one) are separated from each other with
some Often, but not be lost sight of completely.

At the end of the day, no obligation have to walk everywhere together, and indeed so, the
path, without obstacles or impediments like the river, that force you to fall continuously and
for a certain channel, perhaps was put on a shortcut up the hill to greet rejoicing after the hill
from the hill Stony his partner pulled, sweating fat drop to get into the deep a narrow valley
between alders, pebbles and reeds.

Where they meet again the two comrades is towards the end of your trip, shake basin again, but
not growing very much the banks, and does not return the river to enjoy other than flat ground
burial, scalloped along its land bank by a road neither real nor I saw Nansa until we find
me on top of him, and the river crashing against the abutments of the bridge linking the two
banks.

They gave my fond farewell, while drowning in an embrace their whispers (which for our journey of
six hours had not ceased for a moment) the brackish waters treacherous waiting for him still
and clear as a mirror to look at the clouds in the sky lying in the sun on a vast plain dotted
with islands of green upholstery and fragrant rushes. This picturesque river is separated from
the sea by a very high barrier: a black bush and stony cracked from top to bottom, thus leaving
a very narrow gap where the water is strained and boats and is the Bay of Biscay, looking
from the inside, like a piece of sky through the bars of a prison.

Everyone seemed very nice picture for its lines, its light and color, but despite it, briefly occupied
my attention because my mind was gone by very different paths.