 Second and left standing out against a red curtain, a
cherub holding an ebony-framed mirror, which reflects the face of the goddess. Burger says,
that "is not distorted by any invention waist of civilization ', but enough to see a picture,
to see that the size retains traces pressure of the harsh and gossipy emballenada used by women
of that era. The execution and overall impression of color show that the canvas was painted
about the same years that Mars and Mercury and Argus. Although positioned and moved with supreme
elegance is Venus is not a goddess but a beautiful mortal. Emilio Michel tells her that "no
nothing in common with the classical deity who have used the works of Italian masters "[85].

And
who represented the immortal gods had to deal with greater consideration
philosophers who doubted them.

As if reading the author of the Dialogues of courtesans, which describes Menippus, old bald, dirty,
shabby and making fun of all wisdom, Velázquez painted the draft chapeo filthy and ragged
a cloak, under which, overlook the legs, covering foul means of coarse cloth and shoes for
that was an insult cleaning. Books and scrolls that are on their feet, are emblematic of the contempt
he inspires others, and even denotes the best smile among sly and skeptical that you pucker
your lips [86].

Aesop [87] is older and is no less shabby: a full dress, a tunic worn brown and dusty, wears a
hand in the chest, and the other leaning against the hip, says a thick parchment. The same with
these two Greeks and philosophers, Mars, Mercury and Argos, the Olympian deities: namely,
nothing. But if you designate how something Christening capricious and arbitrary, everything
else is in these amazing truth: you can not imagine more perfect types of this dirt and mess
with the body and clothes, continent and the face, accusing the disturbance of thought, of philosophy
proud the loss of reason there is only one step.

The Spinners [88] is the work so famous for all kinds of views that has no need Description:
In addition, the word is powerless to give an idea of ??its main charms are the atmosphere and
color. No way to tell where and how they are arranged the figures, their types, postures,
gestures and clothes: the inexplicable is the life within them, the environment around them
and the distances between the bodies and different things, creating a as lively and movable
set as the same reality. The location of the scene is a workshop ancient tapestry factory of
Santa Isabel, the main characters are five workers delivered to the work. One, already old,
spinning wheel is spinning at around: with the left hand spins the wheel, the spokes seem to
vibrate the air: in the right hand holds the spindle, while naturally turns his head to speak with
a colleague who, while subject away from a heavy portiere. Another, opposite the composition and
sit back the viewer, left hand unravels the tangled skein in a holding reel on the right the ball,
while almost hear what he says one that comes close jovencilla bringing a basket. In the center, half
kneeling, is the fifth ordering or picking up packages wool scattered on the ground, and background,
in another second floor room enhanced, in a clearer atmosphere than the main action, wrapped
in the rays of the sun penetrate from the left, two gentle ladies entertaining mood to consider
a tapestry hanging from the wall and another that looks straight as if drawn by the beauty
of working the first that unravels the skein winder. This girl, who shows naked back, both
feet, arm and part of the left leg, is perhaps the most gallant female figure painted by Velázquez.
It seems to have taken refuge across the freshness, grace and vigor that is lacking in frail bodies
and faces of the princesses palisander and queens. The parties and members that cover the clothes
she displayed accused by folds of cloth, under his shirt and the underskirt is full and graceful
shapes guess, hard round, creating a type that could be a model of a statue erected to youth or
beauty. Can not articulate why, but their proportions, their attitude, how his head, the movement
does, how to extend the arm, delicately arching fingers, give in all a classic in the highest
sense of the word, and one happens to think that if discovered works of Greek artists would find
something like a gentle and graceful woman, beautiful and strong, having been born in Wonderland
is Lavapiés or worthy of having walked the streets of Athens and Corinth.

In another scene so natural and simple as that shown in Velázquez
created Spinners a wonder more: Las Meninas [89].

The origin and time, so to speak, the box is easy to rebuild. Velázquez was portraying the Kings
when entertaining in their games came to stand by him the Infanta Margarita with her meninas and
dwarves, the group formed by the royal seduce parents the child as much as the artist and
would remember that it put an to work.

To the left of the composition, palette and brushes touch, this Velázquez stands before a large canvas
that looks at the back, in an attitude of looking to the Kings, whose figures are reflected in a black
frame mirror placed on the wall. In the center is the Infanta Margarita, which is four or five
years, richly dressed, in an attitude of taking a vase of water it presents respectful attitude,
coming from the left, the gracious Dona Maria Agustina Sarmiento. In the same line again right menina
no less graceful, Dona Isabel de Velasco, and the dwarf Maribárbola huge ugly face and head look
ahead to where Kings sit, before this horrible creature lying there on the floor and dozing a
mastiff seems ready to rise and run gently to avoid further harassment foot Nicolasito Pertusato, happy
little elves urgently, slender and well dressed as a toy alive, whose position and movement would
not surprise best a snapshot.

[Image: MUSEO DEL PRADO

The Spinners

FRAME.

M. Moreno]

After this group Velasco, dwarves and the dog are standing together two people talking of servitude,
a severe guardadamas dressed in black and Dona Marcela de Ulloa, Mrs of honor to play that
seem monastic. Occupy the right wall of windows and spaces intermediate between them: in the
fund is in the top two boxes, under up the mirror which reflected the busts of Dona Maria and
Philip IV, and finally term paneled door opens strongly illuminated by light from another room
emphasis on the intense radiance of the hole, the figure of the Queen's chamberlain, with the
hand on a curtain. The main characters that occupy the forefront of composition, Infanta, young
ladies, dogs and dwarfs, are illuminated from the front and from top to bottom: Velázquez is
something in shadow next to the guardadamas dark suit, emphasize the bust gentle and the sympathetic
face of the lady of the play and deep contrast and differ in different intensity of light reflected
from the surface of the mirror and the direct and intense penetrates through the door. Surprising
at first glance the ceiling height of this room but soon explains the observation that serves
to give an exact idea of ??the proportions of bodies, and also to contribute to the illusion
of distance, effects achieved in this immortal work, rather than with lines and colors, with
the combination and contrast of lights, insulating objects and people, makes them seem surrounded
breathing air.

Reason the beauty of Las Meninas, explaining what they are and to
cause printing so deep, would be to write a course in optics, applied
to painting.

After describing this work can not be beaten Palomino, that "His Majesty was highly esteemed, and
as it was frequently attended to her painting, and also the Queen our Lady Dona Maria Ana de Austria
baxaba many times, and the Princesses and Ladies Ladies, estimating it by pleasant Deleyte and
entertainment. Placed himself in the quarto Baxo of His Majesty, in part clearance among other
excellent, and having come at this time Lucas Jordan, reaching to her, and asked the Lord Charles
II saw him as stunned: What do you think?

And he said: Lord this is the Theology of Painting: trying to imply that just as theology
is the top of the sciences, and that was what quadro top of the painting. "

Jordan Lucas's phrase, is to conceptualize and elaborate, but more or less, the same have then
come to say some modern writers. Theophile Gautier to see Las Meninas, for the first time, as
if it confuses the real with the painting, asked: "But where is the picture?" Paul Saint-Victor
told him three different atmospheres: Lefort says, which is the last word of realistic painting
and text: Stirling said there Velázquez 'seems to have advance the
discovery of Daguerre and taking a group gathered in a room, has as
by magic forever printed on the canvas' Stevenson says this work "is
something unique and absolute in the history of art.

"

Nobody believes now that tradition that Philip IV painted chest of the figure of Velázquez the
Cross of Santiago. First Don Pedro de Madrazo and Villamil Crusade with documents Palace and
then permanently Beruete a data file of the military orders have made clear when Velázquez
was granted the Order of Santiago. According to news the latter has collected and sorted, the
card issuance is signed by the King in 12 June 1658. On July 15 Velázquez presented his own handwritten
genealogy Council of the Order, which formed the necessary records to evidence: the same day decided
the Council which opened in Monterrey and Tuy information for what is referred to the ascending
paternal line, and Seville to the mother. Don Gaspar de Fuensalida paid bail of 300 ducats,
the trial lasted several months, and she said Carreño, Zurbarán, Angelo Nardi, the Marquis of
Malpica, Portuguese Marquis of Montebello and Alonso Cano, which states "never heard that Velázquez
practiced the trade of painter and has sold paintings but that made for fun in obedience to
the King for beautification of the Palace, where he held honorable
positions.

"

This, after the famous decision of the Royal Council of Finance to exempt from payment of sales tax
and recognizing the painting as a liberal art, as in the accounts
of continuously Bureo spoke of payments and arrears collected by Velazquez
as a painter of the King, is most sadly comedian you can imagine and
what looks better then the foolish vanity.

Concluded the evidence, the Board approved Orders age, purity of blood and descent by a straight
line, but not considered noble to Velázquez by the father or mother, and although the painter
testified that his ancestors had not ever paid tribute called white beef and nobles who were
exempt, the opinion was negative, and Philip IV, had to ask the pope immunity because of lack
of nobility. Came the brief signed by the Pontiff Albano on October 7, 1659, and was still necessary
for the king to make the painter hidalgo that could be crossed: at last November 27 of that year,
extended the order gave him mercy as desired. Palomino account, the next day, Prince's birthday
Felipe Prospero, was held the ceremony of taking the habit, and returning Palacio Velazquez, SM
was very well received. And in a different place of work concerned, that after death, the King
had in figure painting Las Meninas, is painted the cross on his chest
Santiago.

This gives us the opportunity to speak on how often portrayed Velázquez.

In museums and private collections abroad, there are many portraits of him which is supposed
made by himself. Bürger, in the catalog that added to the work of Stirling, cites seven: Lefort,
spoke again if done if the verified famous charts so far century, would be forced to admit that
Don Diego spent much of his life portraying. In fact, excluding that "for admiration of the well
understood and honored art 'is boasted of having Pacheco [90], painted in Italy during the
first trip and believed lost There are four undoubted authenticity, and the like, and by compositions
that include: that of Spears, the Museum of Valencia, made a few years after that as few as
have studied and copied, has suffered greatly from ravages of time and repainting or restoration
unskilled, the Vatican Museum, [91] most remarkable for its implementation, while being close
forty years, and finally the Las Meninas. In this, despite the modest placed in the second
term of the composition and almost in shadow, is perceived very well. He was dark of face, lively
eyes, so abundant hair, which is perhaps wig, gentle figure, handsome and graceful, with the
male beauty, which is before the nice expression the natural appearance and elegance of the
person to correct the lines: type much of their land which could be accepted as the personification
of the Spanish knight of time.

It should be noted in this portrait, which Don Diego was born in 1599, and painted the picture
in 1656, does not represent the fifty-seven years had.

In the opinion of many, that perhaps sin of light, Velazquez became religious affairs. According
to them, their tendency to mere imitation of what he could see and was opposed to observe exaltation
of spirit necessary to conceive and represent people divine mysteries and miracles. In my
humble opinion has been greatly exaggerated in this regard. It was certainly a mystic, a gulf between
the loving admiration of his paintings reveal Nature and contempt of the body, the carnal envelope
the damaged vessel, as they call works theologians of the time, and performers whose doctrine
became almost all painters. Velasquez felt that worship the way, by itself, which is the characteristic
feature of great artists: perhaps he saw the beauty in the main manifestation of the supreme
goodness and did not like to undermine its charms. When he tried ugliness, like clowns, wrapped those
insults to nature in the moral splendor of truth is clear: but never to express certain ideas deprived
the human form of its wonders and beauties. It did not, could not emaciated Christs pure ugly,
graceless Virgin on the strength of love represent purity, dripping blood martyrs, hermits, cadaverous,
consumed faces nor members were abused and unknown where the dignity of form, which is also praise
for the Creator: he had to love before God who creates, preserves
and enhances that who destroys, annihilates and ugly, was a believer
and not fanatical.

His paintings attest. The Adoration of the Kings is neither more nor less than what they did
other artists of that time, Zurbarán for example: but Christ scourged, London, even after the
execution preserves the beauty of force and the crucified Christ,
Madrid, at the time of death shines with purity of its lines: in both
cases gave the figure divine beauty by attribute.

Here are the other two compositions of matter, painted a Christian,
and persuade us that without being absorbed by the gloomy asceticism
dominated his contemporaries, knew express poetic and severely religious.

In

the Coronation of the Virgin, [92] he made to the oratory of the second wife of Philip IV,
with the exception of heads of Christ and the Eternal Father, you really are vulgar and lacking
majesty, everything else is typical of a fervent believer. If we disregard in Spanish art Conceptions
of Murillo, and Flemish schools of the old Virgin, represented with unparalleled simplicity and purity,
what is more noble countenance and divinely human than Virgin of the canvas? And the glory
bathed in light, and the heads of seraphim, involved in very clear brilliance, what they have
to envy the heavens and the angels great Murillo?

However, this is perhaps the most discussed painting of Velazquez, even in terms color: because,
although some critics and artists consider it marred by bitter contrasts and dissonance between almost
vinous red amaranth, and the intense blues, others believe that is the work which managed to
be more colorful, showing his preference for the Venetian masters and their taste in fashion Greco.
This view is my view that is right: for although carmine and purple robes of the Eternal Father,
Jesus and the Virgin, taken in isolation, may seem unpleasant to the eye, they are not thanks to the skill
and good taste, superior all praise, with its tones are twinned by a series of gradations in between
that dominate the gray, and pale, and intense, bright and silvery, coming to form delightful
harmony, and perhaps the most brilliant color printing devised Velázquez. For Finally, the general
tone of this painting, which may cause an unfavorable effect museum, would fixed calculated
according to the decoration and adornment of the chapel where he was to appear.

In San Antonio Abad visiting San Pablo, hermit [93], is not lacking either religious spirit but,
by contrast, has the stage all the austere character that requires its nature. No Velázquez
was in anticipation of the demands of local color fidelity and calling criticism modern, giving
the characters and the site itself Eastern appearance they should have. San Paul, fleeing persecution
Décio organized in time, passed by the lower Thebaid the desert, and those places were not easy
to study for an artist in mid- seventeenth century, assuming it occurred, but he, with superior
instinct, sought a place imposing solitary grandeur, perhaps the most abrupt Guadarrama, and
there among huge rocks at the entrance of a Espelunca, placed severe hermits positions, held anointing
and full of dignity. So well calculated disparity between their figures and colossal grandeur
of the rocks gives the whole look solemn contrast which is the grandeur of nature with human
smallness. The Raven is in the air leaving and falling with wings folded, bringing the bread
in its beak and black feathers highlighting its greyish tone on the rocks: San Antonio provides
admired the prodigious bird, and San Paul, with hands joined and raised, looking up to heaven in
thanksgiving. Poor tree branches more sad that remote corner of the world, and far away a lazy
river glides the plain of the valley, where the manner of the ancient tablets of devotion, are
represented compositions in small isolated episodes in the life of the Hermit, the devil, comes
to tempt him, his death and the lions that you gently dig the grave with their claws. The light
is intense, clean environment, if the ground seems sad, the sky is bright and cheerful and the
glory promised to the virtue of those saints.

Velázquez made this picture for the chapel of San Antonio, at Retreat,
and was his last work.

In it, as if he sensed it, given the extent of their knowledge: if at first glance, seduce, examined
slowly because deep impression: This voluntary executed inequality increases the effect that causes
the countryside, earth, rocks, sky and background events with rapid mastery; figures, particularly
the heads, carefully constructed, without prejudice smallness not wane the impression produced,
because just that look, as if they grew, they seem natural size.

If you are looking at art, idealism and poetry, no one at this painting
will doubt that Velazquez the lover of reality, which should never
have to paint what he saw, was one of those geniuses that the love
of nature and Aureole confused all the beauty they conceive.

Year of 1659, adjusted the call Peace of the Pyrenees, between France
and Spain, giving it definitely sovereignty in Roussillon, Cerdanya
and Artois.

Was guaranteed treated the marriage of the daughter of Philip IV, María Teresa, with his cousin
Louis XIV France, and had agreed to verify delivery of the Infanta on the island of Pheasants
there was Velázquez preceding Kings to prepare your accommodation and jewelry the house was
called the Conference.

For books and relations of the time [94] it is known that in that
interview the Court of Spain deployed improper pomp and disastrous
occasion, but if this error was the son of real vanity or wooing,
Velázquez meet its obligation to decorating the rooms with tapestries
from the palace, some of which are preserved and tested the taste
with our great painter chose them.

Many historians have described the act of delivering the Infanta make mention of the contrast that
both Cortes formed: the French ladies were presented dressed with exquisite elegance ours marred
by their ridiculous farthingales and tontillos, but instead the Knights
of Louis XIV were overloaded with bows, ribbons and bows while wearing
the graceful Spanish silk dress and velvet black, enameled chest for
some red or green venerates the Military Orders.

"It was Don Diego Velázquez - Palomino said - that on this day showed less affection in the
ornament, adornment and glory of his person, as his kindness and art together, they were courteous,
without compromising care in natural grace and composure, he illustrated many diamonds, and
stones precious in the color of the fabric is not to admire is beyond
many, it was superior knowledge of them, which always showed very
great pleasure, all the dress was trimmed with rich silver points
of Milan, in the style of that time, it was ruff, but color, even
in the days, in the layer of roxa logo, a beautiful espadin with Silver
lining and tip, with exquisite relief work carved in Italy, a thick
gold chain around his neck, pending the scallop trimmed lots of diamonds
that was glazed the habit of Santiago, where the other ends for dressing
so precious.

"

The hardships of that use of room that he needed a whole man, accrued with the trip to the Pyrenees,
undermined the health of Velázquez. All his biographers have taken Palomino regard to its death
extracting more or less, here is copied in full, because the closer the event pen that tells more of
reality lends color:

"When Velazquez entered his home, was received from his family, and friends with more astonishment
that joy, having been disclosed in the Court of his death, which almost could not believe the view;
seems to have been a harbinger of what little they lived afterwards.

"Saturday day of San Ignacio de Loyola, and last July, having been Velázquez the whole morning
attending to his Majesty, he felt fatigued with some burning, so that forced him to go down
the hall to your home.

He began to feel great distress and difficulties in stomach and heart, Dr. Vicencio visitole Moles,
Family Doctor, and Majesty careful of his health, sent to Dr. Miguel de Alva, and Dr. Pedro de
Chavarri, Medical Chamber of His Majesty, being seen, and knowing
the danger they said was beginning of tertian syncopal minutes subtle,
dangerous affection for the high resolution of spirits, and was constantly
thirsty, large sign shows the danger of this disease mortal.
