 Hush! ... Hush, child! - Said D. Bernardo, further furrowing the brow, which, indeed,
it seemed impossible.

- Come on Henry! - Dona Martina said, trying to restrain.

- Why not stick to Miguel who did more than I recontra? - Shouted
in fury.

- Come on Henry! - She cried Dona Martina .-- Let the party
in peace!

And he came to him and by putting the voice by ear, began to say:

- Do not you understand, fool, that Michael is not my son? ... If it were as you would hit ... But
you're older than him, and you are at home ... You ought to set an example ... Who would occur
but you those things, fool! ... You can stir yourself from this house and all of Madrid ... Is
that what the teacher teaches you in school?

Did I, gaznápiro, di? ...

He was holding his arm, and each of these sentences was accompanied
by a strong jolt.

When he had finished his invective, he left her crying in the corner
and went behind Eulalia who had climbed back to the room to ascertain
the number and kind of havoc executed there.

Meanwhile, D. Bernardo, a very bad mood, not so much by his son's mischief improprieties by
his wife, served soup to everyone at the table, filling also it's plate and his daughter away.
Upon arrival at Henry said in a peremptory tone:

- Kid, come sit at the table.

But Henry was Swedish and continued moaning and kicking at times.

- Child! - Shouted D. Bernardo stentorian voice .-- Come now sit at the table!

The boy raised his head and looking frightened father who was staring
him with a terrible expression of anger, began to walk and dragged
reluctantly to the table.

And perhaps it would have reached safely if he did not see the time appear the door to the
cause of the cuffs, Eulalia, who entered the room followed of his
mother.

See and feel possessed by insane rage was all one.

- Indecent! I have attached for you! I'll pay all together, recontra!

... I Te Nose trumpet break them! Metebaza! ... Fea! ... Feona! ... Chula! ...

At being insulted in this way could not help Eulalia jumped like a
beast on his brother, giving this spurt of hair, the wail of Henry,
to feel, did rise again afraid to present.

Dona Martina, that despite his antics had decided passion by him and that was half sorry for
having punished, outraged.

- Listen, fool! Who are you to beat your brother? Are not we here your father and I for that?
Wait, wait a bit, and I will humble myself down ...!

And he turned to his daughter with his hand up, this cautious young man had gone wrong not to
put in safe running around the table, Mrs. Martin could not catch it: at the same time, so
that Colonel Ojeda, sought to make peace.

D. Bernardo was so irritated with tosquedades his wife, who could not say or do nothing, continued
to sit staring at the plate while a swarm of thoughts dark and melancholy associated with their unequal
marriage, he seethed in the head.

Finally, they went slowly calming the spirits who were angry. Doña Martina left to pursue her daughter
and sat at the table, though muttering threats, it also sat looking askance at his mother,
D. Bernardo, making a prodigious effort of diplomacy to overcome its just despondency, fell
into conversation with the colonel. The only broken glass was paid miserly Henry: the authority
of the father and mother, in common agreement, decided to stay without
food, for insolence! But, as long as in Spain punishes a criminal,
no lack of commitment to continue to have the case married, the pleas
of Ojeda and Colonel managed to end that sentence was reduced only
deprivation dessert. And the good Henry (who must at least acknowledge
that in the midst of raging anger sacase not the shovel murderer who
was in the lining of the jacket) came to sit at the table with the
red cheeks of the cheeks, eyes and noses wet hair fallen over his
forehead. I was so horrible, that his cousin Miguel, pity heartily,
he felt a desire heinous laugh which, of course, tried to contain
by whatever means were within reach, biting his lips, looking at another
site, etc., etc. But he wanted her bad luck that Henry came to understand,
by the contraction of the face certainly, the desire that frolicked
in the body, and for that purpose began to throw a glaring, poisoned.
Michael then was no longer master of himself, and suddenly, in a moment
of silence, let the cloth of laughter, and with him by the mouth and
nose chorretazos the spoonful of soup she had just swallowed