 

Across the bridge there were some houses look very happy: The inn appeared to me to one of
them, and there I was. Hostel was, in fact, and quite well stocked pub. Mandé I give my horse
and asked a few trifles for me, rather than meet a need I did not feel, by buying the right resting
in the shade and a bench under roof, as it was not possible to do outdoor recreating the eyes
in contemplation the sea, so close to being there, did not look black rather than the anchovy
of the estuary.

It was already well-run one in the afternoon when I returned to riding. I went over the bridge,
and without direct the view of the road that let to my left, I began to retrace what was upstream
morning walked downstream. Upon reaching Robacio, saw me at the next brañuca the portal of yore,
the family of the former mansion, with the father first. God knows I made a solemn vow to myself
not to put there foot down, as no dismount me dead. Neluco was the brother of a man quite fat
and not very tall, dark and swarthy face, with wide gray whiskers, hair strong and low front.
Do not talk so much and his wife, but was no less warm and hospitable than her. With the apology
(and was the truth) that the hours had been very measured, I spoke very little and I managed
to had no way to confuse the conversation that I threatened every moment by the side of women
of that good man. Cuddle, finally, for the second time the hairy hand, with offers and the
usual courtesies, and a "goodbye" to all these, cut the I met with goodbyes, and I jumped.

Determined to catch me not closed the night on the road, took the poor animal that led me, the flanks
and up the offal to espolazos. By a miracle of God came home alive. But came to an end, not
as late as I would fear me as I saw him losing strength and reeling from the rough road.

As for myself, I got in the same state of mind than a novel to estudiantillo prison at his school,
having spent many holidays with his family in swearing I own not go out of Tablanca alone and
that way, not to fall again the evil temptation to escape.

XIII

Speaking a few days later Neluco of this tour, he said when
he came to the event:

- Well, now you need to do another, upstream.

I replied that I had already done with Priest once fairly recent and very pleasant memory for me.
Don Sabas Replicom that I had seen only what it suited him that see for the purposes that I had,
and I needed to see something else, and yet was required to: for example, promise.

- I crossed the valley - I said - and kept its overall appearance in memory.

- It is not enough - I said the doctor -.

In this valley is a village, which is the main ...

- I saw him too
...

- By far.

- From far and near has very little to do.

- Accurate
- Neluco said - but in this hamlet is a stately home ... that of Gomez
Pomar, the blood of ancient lineage that also runs through the veins
of you.

- Men's - stopped here my uncle who was present, while Neluco
smiled as if fun of the same weights that was making me, you see promise,
all right; you know the house view of the Gomez de Pomar, go too,
but what remains old blood there that's worth putting your Jocic in
that astragalus as a cabayeru you ... Pispaju! this he refuse to feet
together.

- But if there is no drop of that blood, Don Celso! - Neluco
said.

- Look who it counts! - Replied my uncle -.

But there is one that is ... God knows if in prison.

- I was referring
to the house only ...

- That's not even 'them' and ... because the
crooks desaforaos, gave it a wineskin as baldragazas that lacked the
father in a bear montuna.

Gravel! bad lightning split in two by the kidneys.

- And finally and ultimately, what comes to mind as the fall of Don Marcelo? He played so little
kinship! ...

- Say nothing, cuartajo! if you paez. The sons of a nephew of my mother! ...

- Well, I say! ... or a greyhound reaches you and ... Anyway, if you
do not want ...

- Me?

... A good deal going with the repair! ... I like Go! ... No, no, what is for me ...

- In addition, it is not only, to be seen in passing ...

- Jacia
HERE?

- Towards the other hand ... to another site that I want to
take ... because this issue has Don Marcelo make me.

We will need two days.

- Long will be, piece of junk!

- Not much, but as we spend the night there ...

- Well if you thought
the inn secrecy, give me no more sign of him, because he I have known
...

- You can ... And now there Tablanca health fever for many days,
if Don Marcelo agrees and you give us permission ...

- Me?

... Pispajo!

What I want is for my nephew expands and entertain your taste, certainly
not to take the land of his father ... He knows that well ... well
you know you ... So, if you will it fun, well done will be, and prior
to before, if time tired of being good.

I wish I could go with you, but nothing more than to give a embrace
the good man! But no go to Mass, cuartajo!

...

- I leave you, Mr. Celso ...

- Yes, feet pa-freeze the best day ...

At this subsequent conversation
Neluco undertook the walk, both alone and on horseback: I was always
the well replacement and of his last labors, and he in another rocinejo
by style, which was his property and had the habit, as a horse doctor,
to stand before of all homes that was to pass.

It also woke up early that day, and not a little, and woke us near
the shrine next to Vader, and also saluted the Virgin, following the
example I gave Neluco, rezándola a Salve in Latin.

A great deal of devotion that have and all the inhabitants tablanqueses of the neighboring villages,
and his party, in the month of August, the most popular and celebrated
all of that region.

The image has a caption that I had referred or Chisco or Don Sabas, and met by Neluco while
we went back to running, falling to The Vader. In ancient times the tablanqueses wanted to
replace with a new and ' better to see "that same Virgin appeared to them very old, so that its
origin was unknown "In memory of man." Agreed replacement, acquired the image they wanted and
placed in the small altar after removing it the former, which was
buried with great solemnity, not knowing what to do about it or how
best to honor.

But what was the admiration of those pious mountain to see the next
day at the altar the image buried the day before, and empty his tomb
and found no trace or trace it anywhere in the world of the new image.

With this miracle became more extensive patent and fervent devotion
to the Virgin resurrected, and to this degree, or little less, has
been preserved to date.

Repeating the path taken by me in company with Don Sabas, I seemed to have taken less with him to
get a promise; advantage was due no doubt to amuse me With news Neluco
very curious about every inch of ground under our feet and we were
so well known as the corners of your home.

Not the least known cure, sure, but if there is walked two in the way people feel and taste
the mother country, were more numerous "Records" the doctor, and more varied, therefore the
music of their conversation.

Back in the valley, we straight to the town that gave rise to the contention between my uncle and
Neluco. The so people, scattered and poor village, he held on mound high of several that make
up its rugged place, a building near the church, no more bulky than him, as though she would
look without hindrance and to be well regarded of all and sundry, the only greatness he has. The
building was of good style 'Rich' mountain, in the front stalls grain South and part of the East,
it must to frame it a balcony with iron balustrade pulpit, and the rest, masonry solid with little
clear window. In the main facade, large balcony run CORNER to corners, and above it and the balcony
of this, two separate and ostentatious stone shields long and rich relief carving, on this, the
mossy patina, rust and moth years and neglect, and large eaves with corbels rotten paneling,
broken-backed. That was the ancestral home of Gomez de Pomar, and God knows the sadness, so
the I saw such a deplorable state, rather than sympathetic relationship,
man's natural impulse honest and good taste.

Habitábala a farmer, and so the piles were obvious signs manure, the cart and tools that were
seen in the yard and in the porch, and hay sticking out through the holes in one of the rickety
door of the sunshine, among the elegant masonry fences. She left a good man who saw us look everywhere,
and as Neluco was that he knew, gave us very polite to us to spend to rest, "if we taste it.
" The doctor asked me my opinion with his eyes, and with a gesture gave me the negative. I
remembered some words of my uncle, particularly having been sold
"for a skin wine ", and previously was sorry for bartering in anger.

Continuing our journey, gave me Neluco some reports that I asked, keenly interested to meet you
after what he had seen in the village, where we did not stop over half an hour.

The family of Gómez de Pomar has never been so rich in property and money paid their ancestry, common
ailment on the Mountain. The bambolla a hidalguete of that caste, who returned to Mexico early
last century, he built on the foundations of solar old house we just saw, with the bulk of the money
I had. With the rest and farms that belonged in the valley and nearby, was determined to hold
the luster of his family, taking it all at once at an altitude that had never lived their fidalgos
predecessors. He met his attempt vain, but not without very considerable losses and losses in flow.
Bequeathing his successor, also inherited a load of censuses and mortgages; and as in its short
life could not be relieved of the burden of this cross, also received it on their backs who came
after him, but as it weighed a lot, before dying overwhelmed by it, preferring rid of her at all
costs. And took it off, at the expense of more juicy flow. That saved the rest, which began to
be gradually entangled in inextricable mesh of usurious loans. Was wise man and needs adjusted from
home to the extent that he had freely to support them. Land did not work with his hands, but
paid the work of others to live it in their products, and home and accessory in it, where there
was always unnerving silence reign of leisure and the great annoyance of vanity infanzonas began to
breathe and hear noises farming activity, bells of cattle and invigorating and regenerating fragrance
spicy fruit of the earth.

My paternal grandmother reached that time, the most adventurous family of Gómez de Pomar. His
father was a gentleman in the manner of my Uncle Celso: folksy and without rhetoric, simple
to rudeness, and noble and healthy heart.

Had only two children: my grandmother and the estate. This was less energetic and industrious
as her father, she married Mrs. campurriana half and had a child alone, and that a few far, sick
and without breath for nothing. Here began to weaken the strength of the hitherto upright mediocrity
home much procrastination by the dad naturally something by not sinning industrious mother,
and the remainder for lack of stimulus in the two to make amends in the presence of innate apathy
and fatal weakness of the child. Who gave the grace to glean a little, just as he must have died,
according to calculations by his parents, based mainly on repeated opinion of all doctors and
healers of four miles around. With this and die sooner than those who believed, received orphan
assets at least expected, and with many leaks, almost as many as he had the manor house in
which they did not spend a penny in his life the past masters of it. In this particular as did the
child, attentive only in the early years of his orphan, to the work of reconstituted all the
gift giving was consistent with their wealth, while eating and the "big pot." As never left
the house and had proposed a comprehensive plan to manage life within it, married the maid,
a wild Liébana, always dressed in sackcloth and "goiter." Had to her two sons and two cubs
walk, whose education did not care damn thing: far this, they continually gave the bad example
of his misrule, and very often the scandalous marital quarrels caused by Liébana uncivil, it
was the picture of dirt and the height of wastefulness. At last they both died, she double pneumonia
and he's serous effusion, but was run voice in place that had just a drunk brandy. Everything
could be, because it is shown that very often had merit it. The children, who were just lost for sixteen
years, when the law came in free possession of the inherited, and had more than three quarters of
it. Drunks, corretones and quarrelsome, and gave more to do justice in six months that the entire
party court within a year. The last thing they had left were the ancestral home and a fence
adjacent to her, and as they had mortgaged to a tavern in the valley, at whose expense they
ate and drinking lately, and at the expiration of the debt had to be redeemed, the bartender
stayed with the mortgaged house cast it as soon as he could, and put it to a tenant filled with
family, but it paid well and best cultivated lands also gave income. The man that I know just
the house itself.

- What about the others? - Neluco asked about ended his story -. What has become of them?

- Whose? - He asked me to turn.

- From the owners of the house - I said - or rather of the former owners of the two dissolute who sold it
to the bartender for a wine-skin.

- Well, of those illustrious offspring of Gomez de Pomar know nothing certain at the present
hour. When they were on the street, homeless, or benefits office, disappeared from here, and
knew who were in Andalusia looking for ways to live like the devil gave them to understand. Over the years,
became one, not its people, but that other is encalabrinar at that height in front, and which
I think will arrive in just over an hour. There with the prestige that gave him his name and
the fanfare that unfolded in front of daughter a good man who had some farms, it's got to give
in marriage. Home Estableciéronse apart, and soon after it appeared his brother's place, poor
and badly dressed. Acogióle marriage, as was natural. By then I knew I still student still,
during the summer holidays in the pilgrimage of the Virgen de las Nieves. I found a very bad degustation,
particularly the eldest, whose grim countenance and suspicious look, as in the rest of his person,
were fingerprinted and the havoc of all his misfortunes. The other, the youngest, who was
married, had a pale yellowish and some loops of fox, and a grimace of a smile, and walk poisonous
snake, they were centreline asking the bank of a galley, and courbash a heartless overseer. Said
the that wrought in them by knowing them well, that much watching the Civil Guard, would true or
not, but it was clear that they fled from the couple who walked in the procession, as the devil
on the cross.

For those Kalends made a visit to his uncle, Don Celso; but then
he had more enthusiasm and more guts than today, and answered his
sly exposure needs in such terms and in such an attitude, not insisted
on their request, nor Tablanca again apparently.

Shortly afterwards took off again into the world and sought life
with great satisfaction all over the place, and even the poor wife
of one of them.

Earlier this fall I heard in Tablanca had become a married man and walked around so shameless
and lazy as ever, but I have not seen him or anyone heard of him.

With these interesting biographies and the subsequent comments, entertained the road sinuous, devilish,
leaving our right the river basin and was far too little of their sources.

At last we reached the village, perched up there like an eagle's nest, and led me Neluco the
only inn in him: a crummy shack with a fourth on the porch, and the fourth a coarse counter and a
corresponding shelf with half a dozen bottles and bottles of various colors, some packets of cigarettes
and boxes of matches, and half a dozen glasses of so many sizes, against the wall and supported
by three stakes unworked a plank in the rough, curling brown, front and about half of this bench,
table the same matter and the same style as him on the table, a jug and two glasses half-empty
red wine, and finally, sitting on the bench and the table in front, two men in the which neither
the doctor nor I look great thing for the time being. Then, and as we talked with the innkeeper,
Neluco, that was in front, elbowed me and told me to look to repair them. Hícelo carefully and
saw that the two had very different fur customary and common among villagers in those regions:
they offered the whole aspect of homeless starving cities, both wearing the gray half-grown
beard, and the dark and filthy clothes, with very few signs of shirt. The one thought I saw,
or rather recall features of the painting that I had done Neluco of Gómez de Pomar married at
that same people. The motion of the other did not agree on anything with which I knew about bachelor
brother. It was his face even more ignoble than this and more disgusting the whole of his person:
he had a Chirlo in the nose, which is the split almost half and half an eye removed.

They were known early on that did not like the insistence that looked Neluco and I, and out
of this or because they had nothing to do there, draining the contents
of the relevant vessels, and took off making a slight gesture of greeting,
but said nothing.

Neluco then abruptly left the matter with the landlord was reduced
to know what could serve to take a TENTE feet and began to ask about
the breed of the two parishioners who had just left.

It turned out, in terms of one, which I presumed and Neluco was for certain: it was the Gomez
de Pomar married there, the other had been with him early October, and together they lived and
ate the same pot since then, as large and old friends who were, at the expense and despite the poor
woman who had barely as indispensable to not starve the fruits of its ill-fated marriage. Her husband
rarely missing the place and did not spend any night away from him absences friend, without being
many, were longer, would last two or three days. Asked the first by his wife ... and also by the
mayor, about the origin, occupation, occupations and plans for the second, he replied that he was
a gentleman belonging to one of the main families Madrid, broke with the business of the Stock
Exchange had been studied in young to engineer mine, and going through very knowledgeable on
them. Knew from there with other reports obtained Smart, who had a rich, pure gold, in a certain
place between Tablanca and promise; and looking for every time she walked out of place, rather,
had found the first trial, they were infallible signs that brought: the other trips he was
doing were to study well the reefs and how to exploit them. As this study had just he stole
to sleep, go back to Madrid to account for all the capitalists they had to undertake the work
under his direction, assigning him to return for their work, half the profits.

Despite these lavish reports, the Civil Guard had asked the paper, as to last dissolute, but as
a rule and had not bothered anyone, and nobody complained trusted
him and the neighbor of the place I lived, things went not only to
watch him from afar, as well as their guarantor, while the town houses
were closed at dusk and not left, out of doors, or the chickens in
their "albergaderos" provisional.

In As for the absent Pomar, he knew only by references to his brother, who was well health
and not long in coming because it would have in the gold mine of great profit jobs for both.

I had found blood Morrocotudo I Cantabria those heights! Had Neluco reason, deserved to be known
by me about the site and the manor. On this side, I was giving the travel reasons to disown
him.

Taking up tempting the landlord served us with great will and very little cleaning and revived the
vigor of the horses with nutritious ores do not know what is found in the haystack of the tavern
and the barn of a neighbor, we remounted Neluco and I to go our way, which we still have the longest
and worst, the doctor said told me to ride.

Let the people back and already starting to lower the Canberra on the other side of the mountain
we are lock to lock with the two diners of yore, who were sunbathing arrimados back to a fence and
rushing about butts. Then exchanged papers regarding glances, to be a lot of curiosity with
which we looked at were much higher the fixity and intensity of the looks of it, especially
those directed at me, and especially of my blood relative. We did not even honored with the courteous
gesture which fired in the tavern. Truth is also the face that they put us was not to generate
complimentary responses. When they cross paths with the right hand instinctively took to the
waist, which had, under the thick jacket, a six-shooter, and God knows not for fear of the men.
Neluco, which also took him, but in one of the holsters from his chair, smiled to observe the
movement and know my intentions, and said:

- Do not go so there things you are certain of it. Need to live well with justice to reach their
goals if they have any bad between eyebrows, and if you have, it is not assault in the wilderness
the first passer to be put to fire.