 Green, you, room?

"Too bad!"

Duke said again inside, and out loud:

- Some are, precious few have at home.

And putting his hand into his pocket for his wallet, said bluntly:

-
How many do you need?

- No, you scoundrel! - Said she burst out laughing
-.

Thought I was getting ready to give a saber, eh?

- Sure!

Loving but do not see you when you need money.

- There embusterazo, cunning! Whatever you hear, think that is true. I confess I'm a little
gross and willful, but not always, the son, not always! ... Besides, I feel this evil genie
sour, do not you?

The beautiful odalisque was sitting on the knees of the Duke and gave strong pat with both hands
on their newly shaved cheek a trumpet player. He wore a coat color dark blue with lighter ornaments,
which suited her admirably.

His complexion was increasingly finer, smoother, more pearly.

It was a miracle of nature.

And on that complexion looked her large dark eyes dark, wild, with a mysterious and sensual
fire. Her hair, giving in blue as black, wavy falling on the front
half hidden.

His throat, mixed with milk and roses, cried out the homage of the lips. The duke was thrilled
since she had averted the danger: it melted in touch, the Amparo
accepted submissive to his custom.

- Wait a little.

Today I want to take coffee with me.

- I've taken, my daughter.

- No matter what your gonna get it again.

For many days since we took together. Of course, with that happy dance you will jump your brains!

At
the same time he got up and began to maneuver the equipment to make coffee, they were placed
on the table.

- I mismito I'm going to do to make you smack, so rogue, and I'll take it one polvitos I sold a gypsy
to get soft, you know ... Because I have to ask you something.

Duke's eyes turned to reflect concerns.

But he hastened to conceal a laugh.

- You said it!

What should you ask me, blondie?

- Drinking coffee in the know.

He could not tear before the secret.

Japanese pulled a small table to the chair where he was the Duke.

For himself brought a golden chair. And chatted with animation or rather, chatted her as he
listened enraptured, his head thrown back, approaching from time
time with his trembling hand of man spent the cup to his lips.

-
Hey, Tone - she said when completed, decisively putting elbows on
the table and looking intently: - what do you think of me go to your
prom?

Another that was not Salabert had given a jump on hearing such an
atrocity. He did more to open his eyes suddenly to drop the lids again
staying in the same sleepy attitude.

- I do not dislike.

- "So I
can go?

- You bet you can go! What you will not enter.

- Why? "-
Cried and curled the beautiful.

- Why do not you receive.

Amparo
rose furious.

- Why did not I receive, say, why? - Uttered shaking
his arm and bringing face to his.

- Quiet, small, quiet! Because
my daughter can not stand by your side a pretty woman it