 Came to call him a thief because he refused to return his
gun. He had no friends, all were ungrateful, greedy equal to Don Salvador. I did not want sleeping
there: he was drowning. And looking in the bag of tools, picked up a sickle, crossed in his belt and
left the house without Pimento attempt to stop the pass.

At such times nothing bad could make the old man who slept in the
open, if that was your choice.

Y the bully, closing the cabin, bed.

The Barret went straight to their fields and as a stray dog, he began to laps around the block.

Closed! ... Closed forever!

Those walls had risen of his grandfather and renewed it every year. Even in the darkness stood
out the white with crisp whitewash her girls covered them three months earlier.

The corral, the barn, pens, were the work of his father, and that cap of straw, as high, so slender,
with two small crosses at the ends, had raised him again replacing the old, which was water
everywhere.

And his handiwork was also the edge of the well, the pillars of the arbor, weirs, above which
showed their plumes of flowers and carnations dompedro.

What everything was going to be owned by another, because, because they wanted the men? ...

He
reached into his belt matches the strip of cardboard that served
to light their cigars.

Wanted set fire to the straw roof. That takes all the devil! At last it was his, God well
knew, and could destroy your finances before you see it in the hands
of thieves.

But to go and burn down their old house felt a sense of horror, as if he were to he bodies of
all his ancestors, and threw the match down.

Continued to rage in his mind the desire for destruction, and got to meet her sickle in hand in
those fields that had been their tormentors.

Now the land would pay all together unpleasant because of their misfortunes!

Devastation

lasted for hours. Derrumbáronse to kick the vaults of rods for which climbed the green strands of
green beans and peas, beans fell items by the furious sickle, and rows of lettuces and cabbages
distance jumped sharp pulse steel, such as severed heads, spreading
in sheets around her hair .... No one would take advantage of your
work!

And so it remained until near dawn, cutting, crushing with crazy kicking, swearing loudly,
roaring curses, until exhaustion finally calmed his anger, and threw in a groove like a child
crying, thinking that the earth would henceforth be her bed eternal and only work begging on
the roads.

He was awakened by the first rays of the sun hurting your eyes and the happy chatter of birds
jumping around his head, drawing his lunch the remains of the destruction night.

He got up, numbed by fatigue and humidity. Pimento and his wife called him from further, inviting
him to take something. Barret answered them with contempt. "Thief! After who had remained with
his gun !...» and began the way to Valencia, trembling cold, not knowing where he went.

As he passed the tavern Cup, went into it.

Some roads in the neighborhood spoke to him to pity his misfortune, inviting him to drink, and
he hastened to accept. Wanted something about that cold that he had
gotten into the bones.

And he, as sober, he drank one after another two glasses of brandy, which fell like waves of
fire in his stomach weary.

His face colored, becoming then a deathly pallor, her eyes vetearon
blood.

The road was pitied him expressive and confident, almost as an be happy. I called my children,
assuring them that did not hurry for so little. I had not lost everything. He still had the best
of the house, the sickle of his grandfather, a gem that did not want to change or for fifty
bushels of good land.

And he drew from his girdle the curved steel, pure and bright: a tool for fine tuning and cutting
very subtle, that he said Barrett was in the air from a cigarette
paper.

Paid the road, and driving their beasts alejáronse to the city, filling the road of squeaky wheels.

The
old man was still more than an hour in the bar, talking to himself,
noting that the head it was, until, disturbed by the harsh gaze of
the owners, who guessed his condition, felt a vague impression of
shame and left without saying goodbye, walk unsteadily.

I could not take your memory a tenacious memory. I saw with my eyes closed a large vegetable garden orange
that was more than an hour away from Benimaclet and sea. There was left him many times in their
affairs, and he was now, to see if the devil was so good did you
encounter with the master, which was rare day not inspect your eyes
miser the beautiful trees one by one, as if he counted the oranges.

Came after two hours of walking, stopping many times to his body poise, that is balanced on the
legs unsafe.

Spirit had seized him. Did not know what purpose it got there, so far from the part of the garden
where they lived theirs, and eventually drop into a field hemp to the roadside. Soon his drunken
snores sounded painful between the green and upright stems.

When he awoke it was already late afternoon. I felt heaviness in the head and stomach weary. Ears
tingled, and her mouth pasted perceived taste horrible. What was there near the garden of the Jew? What
had gone so far? His honesty made him ashamed primitive of this degradation, and tried to stand
to flee. The pressure produced on its sickle stomach cross belt gave him chills.

By joining stuck his head between hemp and saw a turn of the road
to an old man I walked slowly, wrapped in a layer.

Barret felt all his blood was up at once to the head, which reappeared
his drunkenness, and sat up, pulling the scythe .... And yet say the
devil is not good?

There was her man, the same he wanted to see from the previous day.

The old usurer had hesitated long before leaving home. Something stung him Uncle Barret, the event
was recent and the garden is treacherous.

But the fear in drawing its absence in the orange grove was stronger
than their fears, and thinking that the farm was away from the shed
attached, stood in the road.

And stood to contemplate his garden, and laughed at the fear last
jump of the bed when he saw Barrett himself hemp, and it seemed a
huge demon, red face, arms outstretched, preventing any leakage, cornered
at the edge of the ditch that ran parallel to the road.

Believed to dream; crashed his teeth, his face green stood and dropped his coat, revealing a dirty
old coat and rolled up to his neck scarves. So great was his terror and confusion, until he spoke
in Castilian.

- Barret!

My son - he gasped -. Everything was a joke, never mind. What happened yesterday was to make it
a little scared ... nothing more. You're going to continue on the land .... Spend morning at
home ... talk. Pay me as you see fit.

And bend your body, keeping you close the Barret. Intended to drain, run away the terrible scythe,
whose blade broke a ray of sunshine and blue skies reproduced. As was the ditch behind him, could
not find room to move, and threw the body behind seeks to cover the
clasped hands.

The farmer smiled like a hyena, showing his sharp teeth and poor whites.

- Liar! Liar! - Answered with a voice like a snore.

And moving the tool from side to side, seeking to wound site, preventing
thin hands and desperate to be put forward.

- But Barret!

My son! What is this? ... Put that gun ... do not play .... You are a man honest ... think of your
daughters. I repeat that was a joke. Come tomorrow and I will make the call .... Oooh! ...

It was a horrible roar, a cry of wounded beast. Sickle tired of obstacles, had shot down one stroke
of the clenched hands.

Hung from the tendons and skin, and red blood stump threw hard, splashing to Barret, who roared
to receive in the face of the hot spray.

Faltered the old man on his legs, but before falling to the ground,
horizontally split sickle against his neck, y. ..

Bang! complicated cutting sheath tissues, opened a deep cleft separating
the head near the trunk.

Don Salvador fell in the ditch, his legs were in the ditch, blown
by a kick slaughtered beef funeral.

Meanwhile, head buried in the mud, let go of all its blood in the
deep gap and water stained red, following its course with a gentle
placid murmur glad the solemn silence of the afternoon.

Barrett remained planted on the bank like an idiot. Much blood was the guy thief! The canal,
the red, seemed more mighty. Suddenly, the farmer, dominated by terror,
began to run, as if afraid that the stream of blood drown the overflow.

Before

ending the day the news spread like a cannon shot that shook the entire valley. Have you seen
hypocritical gesture, the glad silence with a town that hosts the
ruler's death you press?

... So cried the garden of Don Salvador's disappearance.

Everyone guessed the Barret's hand, and nobody spoke. The barracks had opened for him his last hiding;
women would have hidden under their skirts.

But the murderer wandered like a madman through the garden, avoiding people, lying behind of the
slopes, crouching under the bridges, escaping across the fields, frightened by the barking of
dogs, until the day after the Civil Guard found him sleeping in a
haystack.

For six months only spoke in the garden of Barret.

Sunday went like a pilgrimage for men and women to prison in Valencia to watch through the bars
to the poor "liberator" increasingly gaunt, with sunken eyes and
look worried.

Came the view of the process, and sentenced him to death.

The news made a deep impression on the plain, cures and mayors moving
they stood for avoid such a shame .... District One sitting on the
scaffold!

As Barrett had been always docile, voting as the chief and ordered that passively obeying sent,
there were trips to Madrid for his life, and the pardon was timely.

The farmer left the jail made a mummy, and was taken to prison in
Ceuta, for to die there a few years.

Disolvióse his family, disappeared as a handful of straw in the wind.

Daughters, one after another, were leaving the families that had been collected and moved to
Valencia to earn a living as maids, and the poor old, tired to bother
with disease, left the hospital, dying shortly afterwards.

The people of the garden, with the ease with which all the world to forget the misery of others,
barely remembered now and again the terrible tragedy of Barret, wondering
what would be their daughters.

But nobody forgot the camps and barracks, remaining one and another in the same state the day when justice
drove the unfortunate settler.

Was this a tacit agreement of all the garden, a plot instinctive, in the preparation barely
saying a word, but even the trees and the roads seemed to get into
it.

Pimento had said the day of the disaster.

"To see who was the handsome dare to get into that land! "

And all the people of the garden, even the women and children, seemed
to answer with their eyes of mutual understanding, "Yes, to see."

Parasitic plants, thistles, began to emerge from the cursed land that Barret was kicked and
stabbed with a sickle on the last night, as if sensing that her fault die in prison.

The children of Don Salvador, some rich men as greedy as his father, mired in creyéronse misery
because the piece of land remained unproductive.

A farmer resident of another district in the garden, the man who never missed handsome had enough
land, he felt tempted by the low price of the lease and to go through with to all fields that inspired
fear.

I was going to till the land with the gun on his shoulder, he and his servants were laughing
at the loneliness they let the neighbors, the barracks were closed
to his step, and followed them from afar hostile glances.

Much the farmer watched, sensing an ambush, but it was useless caution,
because one afternoon when I returned alone to his house, when he
still had not finished clearing their new fields, you dropped it out
two shotguns, but saw the attacker, and miraculously came unscathed
from the handful of BBs that he passed to his ears.

On the roads did not see anyone.

Not a new track. He had been pulled from a ditch, ambushed the shooter behind the Canar.

With enemies and could not fight, and the bully, on the same night, gave the keys of the cabin
to their masters.

You had to listen to the children of Don Salvador. Is it that there was no government or security
for property ... or anything?

Pimento was undoubtedly the author of the attack, which prevented
the fields were cultivated and the Civil Guard seized the check from
the garden, taking him to prison.

But when it came to the statements, all paraded before the district
court affirming Pimento's innocence, but to those rustic rogues they
could start a contradictory word.

All recited the same lesson. Even
old ailing never left their barracks declared that day, at the same
time that they heard the two shots, was in a tavern Pimento Alboraya
of carousing with friends.

Nothing could be against these people
and look stupid gesture candida, scratching his neck lied with such
aplomb, Pimento was released, and all the barracks came a sigh of
triumph and satisfaction.

Since the test was made: everyone would
know in future that the cultivation of those lands paid to the skin.

Did
not give the greedy masters. Cultivate the land themselves, and sought
laborers between people suffered and submissive, smelling of rough
wool and misery, low in search of work, driven from hunger, from the
ends of the province, from the border mountains to Aragon.

In the
garden he pitied the poor churros. Woe! Iban to earn a wage, what
fault theirs? And at night, when he retired with a hoe over his shoulder,
there was always a good soul who called from the door of the tavern's
Cup were in, the guests to drink and then we were talking in his ear
with his face grim and parental stress and mild as one who counsels
a child to avoid the danger. And the result was that the docile churros
the next day instead of going to the field, mass presented themselves
to the owners of the land.

- My lord, we come to pay us. 

And they
were frustrated all the arguments of the two bachelors, furious at
being attacked in their greed.

- My master - answered everything
-: semos probes, but we have not encontrao life behind a haystack.

Not
only left the job, but passing notice to all his countrymen to flee
from earn a wage in the fields of Barret, and those who shun the devil.

The
landowners asked for protection even in the public papers. And pairs
of Civil Guard were to run the orchard, to bet on the roads, to surprise
gestures and conversation, always unsuccessfully.

Every day looked
the same: women sewing and singing in the vines, the men in the fields,
bent, eyes on the ground, giving no rest to the active arms; Pimento
tending to the great man sticks to the league, hoping to birds, or
helping Pepeta to clumsy and lazy, in the tavern a few old Cup sunbathing
or playing trick. The landscape breathed peace and honest bestiality
was a Moorish Arcadia. But The guild did not trust, no farmer wanted
the land or even for free, and so the masters had to abandon his efforts,
allowing it to be covered with weeds and that barrack is shut down,
awaiting the arrival of a man of good will can of shopping or work.

The
garden trembled with pride seeing how that wealth was lost and the
heirs of Don Salvador became the "holy.