 Ah, war!
The stupid war!

In the middle of the Champs Elysees saw a man with wide-brimmed hat, marching in front of them
slowly and talking to himself. Argensola recognized him as he passed to a lamppost: "The friend
Tchernoff." The Russian, returning the greeting, let out the bottom of his beard a faint smell
of wine.

No invitation arranged his passage to them, following them into Arc de Triomphe.

July had only crossed the silent greetings with friends to find you Argensola the porch of
the house.

But sorrow softens the mood and does look like a cool shade the friendship of the poor. Tchernoff,
meanwhile, looked as if he knew Desnoyers lifetime.

He had interrupted his monologue, heard only the masses of black vegetation, banks lonely blue
shadow red pierced by the tremor of the lanterns, the summer night
with its dome and sidereal blows hot flashes.

Took a few steps without speaking, as a a courtesy to the passengers, then resumed his arguments,
taking them where he had abandoned, without explanation, as if march alone.

And at this hour --... cheers as well as the people here will believe
in good faith going to defend their homeland caused, want to die for
their families and homes threatened anyone.

- Who are those, Tchernoff?
- Asked Argensola.

Russian looked at him, as if strange your question.

- They - said
laconically.

They both understood ... Them! There could be others.

- I have lived ten years in Germany - continued, giving more access to his words to be heard -.
I went daily correspondent in Berlin, and I know these people. Passing crowd filled the boulevard,
I saw with what happens beyond imagination at this hour. Also singing and waving flags roar of enthusiasm.
Are equal to each other externally, but what a difference, inside! ... Last night on the boulevard,
he persecuted people a vociferous shouting: "A Berlin!" is a cry of bad memories and bad taste.
France does not want conquests His only desire is to be respected, to live in peace without
humiliation or uneasiness. This night, two to go mobilized said: "When we get in Germany they will
assess the Republic ... "The Republic is not a perfect thing, my friends, but it represents something
better to live under an irresponsible monarch by the grace of God. If nothing else, is peaceful
and no personal ambitions that disturb life.

And I have moved by the feeling generous of these two workers, instead of thinking about the
extermination of their enemies, they want correct them, giving them
what they consider best.

Tchernoff paused a few moments to smile wryly at the sight that presented itself his imagination.

-
In Berlin, the masses express their enthusiasm is high, as befits a superior people. The Underdogs,
who are comforted by their humiliation with a gross materialism, shouting to those hours: "A
Paris! Let them drink free champagne! "The bourgeoisie pietistic capable of doing anything reach
a new honor, and the aristocracy who has given the world the biggest scandals of recent years,
also shouted "To Paris!" Paris is the Babylon of sin, city Moulin Rouge and the restaurants of Montmartre,
the only places they know ... And my comrades of Social-Democracy
also shout, but they have been taught to another song: "In Moscow!

A Petersburg! We must crush the Russian tyranny, danger of civilization!

"The Kaiser driving the tyranny of another country as a scarecrow
for his people ... What a laugh!

And the laughter of Russian rang in the silence of the night like a rattle.

- We are more civilized than the Germans - said when he stopped laughing.

Desnoyers, who listened with interest, made a surprise move and said: "This Tchernoff has drunk
something. "

- Civilization - continued - is not only a major industry in many
boats, armies and numerous universities that teach only science.

That is a material civilization. Another top that lifts the soul and does not allow human dignity
suffer without protest continuous humiliation. A Swiss citizen who lives in his chalet, considering
equal to the other men in his country is more civilized than the Herr Professor has to give
way to a lieutenant or the rich in Hamburg bends like a lackey to which von particle holds.

Here the Spanish nodded, as though divining what was going to add Tchernoff.

- The Russians suffered a great tyranny. I know something about this. I know the hunger and cold
of dungeons have lived in Siberia ... But compared to our tyranny has always existed a protest
revolutionary. A portion of the nation's half barbaric, but the rest has a mind higher, a high
moral spirit that makes you face dangers and sacrifices for freedom and the truth ... And
Germany? Who has ever objected to it, to defend rights human? What revolutions have been known
in Prussia, land of great tyrants? Founder militarism, Frederick William, when he got tired of
beating his wife and spitting in the course of their children, out into the street club in
hand to hit to the subjects that did not run to time.

His son Frederick the Great declared that he died of governing a people bored slaves. In two
centuries of Prussian history, one revolution: the barricades of 1848 Berlin bad copy of the
revolution in Paris, and to no avail. Bismarck pressed hand to crush the last attempts to protest,
if it really existed. And when his friends threatened a revolution, the ferocious Junker put
her hands to the flanks, launching the most insolent laughter. A revolution in Prussia! ...
No one like him known to his people.

Tchernoff was not patriotic. Many times I had heard Argensola speak against his country. But was
indignant when considering the contempt with which the Germanic pride was the Russian people.
Where was, in the last forty years of imperial grandeur, intellectual hegemony boasted that
the Germans? ... Excellent pawns of science and tenacious scholars view short, confined each
in his specialty, lab Benedictines, who worked sometimes a long and successful through huge
mistakes given as truths be yours: that was all. And next to such patient diligence and worthy
of respect, what of cheaters! What big names exploited as a sample of store! Many scholars sanatorium
stuck to hotel! ... Herr Professor discovered a cure of tuberculosis,
and consumptive continued to die as before.

Another sign with a figure the winning choice of the most shameful of diseases and genital
fever was sweeping the world. Y all these errors accounted for considerable fortunes, each resulted
in saving panacea to the establishment of an industrial society, selling products at great prices,
as if the pain is a privilege of the rich. How far from the bluff Pasteur and other wise inferior
peoples, who fought the world his secrets to paying no monopolies!

- German science - continued Tchernoff - has given much to humanity, I admit, but science of
other nations has given a lot alike. Only crazy people can be proud imagine that he is everything
to civilization and the others are nothing ... Apart from scholars specialists, what genius has
been in our time that Germany believes that universal? Wagner is the ultimate romantic, closes
an era and the past. Nietzsche was hard to demonstrate his Polish origin and abhorred of Germany,
which, he said, of bourgeois pedants. Your Slavism was so pronounced that even prophesied the crushing
of the Germans by Slavs ... And there are no more. We savages, have given the world in recent performers
times morally admirable greatness. Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky are universal. What names can be placed
in front of them Wilhelm II's Germany? ... His country was the homeland of music, but this Russian musicians
are more original than the followers the Wagnerian, who take refuge in the exasperation of
the orchestra to hide their mediocrity ... The German people had
geniuses in their time of grief, when not yet born Pangerman pride,
when there was the Empire.

Goethe, Schiller, Beethoven, were subjects of small principalities. Were influenced by other
countries, contributed to world civilization, as citizens the world, not occur to the Germanic
world should be paying attention to because their works.

Tsarism had committed atrocities. Tchernoff knew from experience and did not need Germans come
to tell. But all the educated classes of Russia were enemies from tyranny and stood against
it. Where were the intellectuals enemies in Germany Prussian Czarism?

Callahan flattery or burst into God's anointed, musician and comedian as Nero, a lively intelligence
and superficial, whereas, touch everything, thought I knew everything. Eager to reach a scenic
position in history had finally afflict the world with the greatest of calamities.

- Why should it be Russian tyranny that weighs upon my country? The worst czars were imitators
of Prussia. In our times, each time the Polish or Russian people have tried to claim their rights,
the reactionaries used the Kaiser as a threat, saying it would to his aid. One half of the Russian aristocracy
is German, German generals more have distinguished stabbing the people, German officials argue
and advise tyranny German officers who are responsible for killings punish workers' strikes and rebellion
of the peoples annexed. The Slavic reactionary is brutal, but it has the sentimentality of
a race in which many princes are nihilists. Whip raised easily but then repents and cries sometimes.
I've seen them kill Russian officers not to go against the people or by remorse for having executed
massacres. The German service Czarism no qualms or regrets his conduct kills coldly, methodically
detailed and accurate, as everything runs. The Russian is a barbarian, paste and repents, the
civilized German shoots without hesitation. Our Tsar, in a humanitarian dream Slavic stroked
utopia generous universal peace, organizing conferences in The Hague. The Kaiser of culture has worked
for years and years in the assembly and body fatness destructive as ever was known to crush Europe.
The Russian is a humble Christian, egalitarian, democratic, thirsty for justice, the German
boasts of Christianity, but is an idolater as the Germans of other
centuries.

His religion loves the blood and maintains the caste, their religion is true Odin, but now the
god of the massacre has been renamed and is called the State.

Tchernoff He paused, perhaps to better appreciate the strangeness
of his companions, and then said with simplicity:

- I am a Christian.

Argensola, who knew the ideas and the history of Russia, made a gesture of astonishment. July
insisted on his suspicions: "Definitely, this Tchernoff drunk."

- It's true - he continued - that I care little about God and not believe in dogmas, but my soul
is Christian like all revolutionaries. The philosophy of modern democracy is a secular Christianity.
Socialists love the poor, the needy, the weak. Defend their right to life and welfare, as
well as the great exalted religion which were at all unhappy to a
brother.

We demand respect for the poor on behalf of justice, the others ask in the name of piety. This
only divides us. But a and other men seek to agree to a better life that the strong sacrifice
for the weak, the powerful and the humble and the world is governed by the fraternity, seeking the
greatest possible equality.

The Slavic summarized the history of human aspirations. Greek thought had welfare on earth, but only
for a few, for the citizens of their small democracies, for free men, leaving behind his misery
slaves and barbarians which constituted the majority.

Christianity, the religion of humble, had recognized them all beings the right to happiness,
but this happiness was placed in the sky, away from this world "valley of tears." The revolution
and its socialist heirs put happiness in the immediate realities of the land, like the ancients,
and made partakers of it to all men, as well as Christians.

- Where is the Christianity of the German present? ... There are more Christian spirit in the secular
socialism of the French Republic, defender of the weak, that religiosity the conservative Junkers.
Germany has made a god in his likeness, and when you believe worship, is its own image as
he loves.

The German God is a reflection of the German State that views war as the primary function of
a people and the noblest of occupations.

Other Christian peoples, when they have to fight, feel the contradiction between their conduct and
the Gospel, and excuse themselves saying the cruel necessity of defending themselves. Germany
declares that the war is pleasing to God. I know German sermons proving that Jesus was a supporter
of militarism.

Germanic pride, the belief that race is destined to dominate providentially
the world could agree to Protestants, Catholics and Jews.

- Over
their differences of dogma is the God of the State, who is German,
the God warrior to which you may call William at this hour "my worthy
partner."

Tended Religions always at the universal. Its purpose is to bring men into relationship with
God and support the relations between all men. Prussia has retrograded to barbarism created
for use personal one second Lord, a god hostile to the majority of mankind, which their grievances
and ambitions of the German people.

Then Tchernoff explained his own way the creation of the Germanic God, ambitious, cruel, vindictive.
The Germans were Christians from the previous day.

His six-dating Christianity nothing centuries, while the other peoples of Europe was ten, fifteen,
eighteen centuries. When they were done and the Crusades, the Prussians were still living in
paganism. The pride of race, to push them to war, was to revive the dead gods. A Like the old
Germanic god, who was a warlord, the God of the Gospel Germans saw adorned with spear and shield.

-
Christianity in Berlin wears a helmet and riding boots. God is mobilized at this time as well
as Otto, Fritz and Franz, to punish the enemies of the chosen people. Nothing matter who ordered:
"Do not kill" and tell your child on earth: "Blessed the peacemakers.

"Christianity, according to the German priests of all denominations, only may influence the individual
improvement of men and should not interfere in the life State. The God of the Prussian state is
the 'old German God, "an heir to the fierce Germanic mythology, an amalgam of the gods hungry
for war.

In the silence of the avenue, Russian red figures evoked the ruthless gods. Iban to wake up that
night to feel loved in his ears the clash of arms and on his nose the acrid scent of blood.
Thor, the god of brutal small head, stretched his biceps, wielding the hammer that smashes cities.
Wotan sharpened his spear, which is the lightning for iron and shoe
thunder.

Odin, the one eye, yawned at the top of gluttony the mountain, waiting for the dead warriors
would pile up around his throne. The Valkyrie disheveled, sweaty and smelling virgins colt began to
gallop from cloud cloud whipping men with howls, to take the bodies, bent like saddlebags Upon
the back of his flying hacks.

- The Germanic religion - continued Russian - is the negation of Christianity.

For her, men are equal before God. This only appreciate the strong, and supports them with its influence
to dare all things.

Those born weak must submit or disappear. Peoples are not equal: they are divided into villages and
towns lower drivers whose destination is being shredded and treated by them. God wills it.
And it is useless to say great people that driver is Germany.

Argensola interrupted. German pride was not based solely on their God also appealed to science.

- I know that - "the Russian said without letting it -: determinism,
inequality, selection, the struggle for life ... The Germans, so proud
of their worth, built on land foreign intellectual monuments, borrow
overseas foundation material when making new work.

A Frenchman and an Englishman, Gobineau and Chamberlain, have given arguments to defend the superiority
of their race. With rubble left over from Darwin and Spencer, his elder Haeckel has made the
"monism" doctrine, as applied to politics, enshrined scientifically German pride and recognizes
their right to rule the world, being the strongest.

- No, a thousand times no - continued to power after a brief silence -. All that fighting through
life with their attendant cruelties may be true in lower species, but should not be true among
men. We are beings of reason and progress, and we must free ourselves the fate of the environment,
modifying it to our convenience. The animal does not know the law, justice, compassion, lives gloom
slave of his instincts. We think, and thought means freedom. The strong, to be, need not appear
cruel, it greater when not abusing his power and is good. Everyone has the right to life, as
born, and still just as proud and humble beings, beautiful or weak nations must continue to live
large and small, old and young.

The purpose of our there is no struggle, there is murder and then
kill us, and who in turn Our drop dead matador.

Leave that to the blind nature. Civilized people of follow a common thought, must adopt the
Mediterranean Europe, making the design more peaceful and sweet life possible.

A cruel smile stirred the bearded Russian.

- But there Kultur, the Germans want to impose and that is the very
opposite civilization.

Civilization is the refinement of spirit, respect Similarly, the tolerance of others' opinions,
the softness of manners. Kultur is the action of a State organizes and assimilates individuals
and communities to which they serve in their mission. And this mission is mainly to be above
other states, crushing with its grandeur, or what is, pride, ferocity, violence.

They had arrived at the Place de l'Etoile. The Arc de Triomphe stood out in his dark mole starry
space. The floods spread in all directions a double row of lights. The street lights around
the monument lit up their bases and huge feet sculptural groups. Closed above the shadows, giving
the monument the black light density of ebony.

They crossed the square and the Arc. To be under the canopy, that rang, enlarged, echo its paces,
they stopped. The breeze of the night took a cold winter to slide the interior of the building.
The vault trimmed the edges of their ends on Blue fuzzy space. Instinctively, the three head
back to show us a to the Champs Elysees, which had left behind.

Just saw a shadow on the river floating Rosaries red star between two long black escarpments
formed by the buildings.

But they were familiar with the situation, and believed seen in the dark, without any effort,
the majestic slope of the avenue, the double row of palaces, the square Concordia in the background
with its Egyptian needle, the trees of the Tuileries.

- This is beautiful - Tchernoff said, he saw something more than shadows -. An entire civilization
love peace and sweetness of life has been here.

A memory melted into Russian.

Many afternoons, after lunch, had found that to place a strong man, square, blond beard and
kind eyes. He looked like a giant stopped in the middle of its growth. A dog with him. Jaures
was his friend Jaures, which before going to the House took a walk to the Arc from his house in
Passy.

- He liked to be where we are at this time.

She looked at the avenues, gardens far, all Paris is offered to the
admiration from this height.

Touched and told me: "This is fantastic. One of the most beautiful views can be found in the
world ... " Jaures Poor!

Russian, by an association of ideas, evoking the image of his compatriot Miguel Bakounine, another
revolutionary, father of anarchism, weeping with emotion at a concert
after hear the Beethoven symphony with choirs, directed by a young
friend named Ricardo Wagner.

"When you come to our revolution - shouted shaking hands with the teacher - and perish what exists,
it will be saved at any cost. "

Tchernoff tore at his memories to look around and say with sadness:

- They have been here.

Every time I passed through the Arch, the same image arose in his
memory. They were thousands of helmets gleaming in the sun, thousands
of heavy boots all rising with a mechanical stiffness time, short
trumpets, fifes, tamborcillos flat, touching the August silence of
the stone, the military march from Lohengrin played on the deserted
streets to closed homes.

He, who was a foreigner, he was attracted
by this monument, with the attraction of buildings venerable keep
the glory of the ancestors. I did not want to know who had created.
Men build believing solidify an immediate idea who flatters his pride.
Then humanity ensues, more comprehensive view, which changes the meaning
of the work and enhances, stripping it of its former self. Greek statues,
models of supreme beauty, had were originally simple shrine images
donated by the piety of the devotees of those times. Referring to
the Roman greatness, everyone saw in imagination the vast Coliseum,
arena killing, or high arches to the glory of the Caesars inept