 

Suddenly stopped the mules trotted into the corner of the alley of San Juan de Dios and left
space and no little trouble with the buggy a tall, good job, evening dress black buttoned to
the neck, revealing underneath the vest or light-colored waistcoat, carranclán pants up, tie
bristle and beaver hat with enormous glass wing narrow. As could be discerned in the half light
of the stars, the factions most notable were the nose man, who was hooked, very bright eyes,
the face oval and small beard. The color of it and the hair, shades and hat altered the convent
walls neighbor, obscured perhaps without being black.

- Follow up the street from the Stoned - said the gentleman in an imperious tone, lower support
left hand on the saddle of the mule yards - and looks away to the corner. If round to give
you, say you belong to Don Joaquin Gomez and awaiting orders. Do you understand, Pio?

- Yes, sir, "replied the coachman, who since he started talking about his master had his hat
in hand.

And following the passage of mules to the point that you said that.

Alley San Juan de Dios consists of two blocks only, closed at one end on the walls of the convent
of Santa Catalina and the other in the houses of the street Havana. The hospital of San Juan de
Dios, which gives its name, and which high and square windows, always let out the hot breath of
the sick, occupies an entire side of the second block and the other three small houses and a single
red tile floor, the last notably higher than the street level, with one and two stone steps to the
door. The best looking of them were entering the first block of the street de Compostela. Were
all the same size, more or less, single window and door, this cedar with large-headed nails,
painted brick, or mirror it or flown [4] and thick wooden balusters. The floor of the street was in
its primitive natural state, rocky and without sidewalks.

The strange gentleman, leaning against the walls, under the projecting eaves tiles stopped at
the door of the third house on the right and gave two taps with the tip fingers. There no doubt
waiting for him, because soon open what it took to move from door window to the person who removed
the gate that closes on the inside. That was be the mistress of the house, mulatto and 40 years
of age, of medium height, filled with meats, but retained the narrow waist, rounded shoulders, bare,
beautiful head, the rather thick nose, mouth, expressive and very
curly thick hair.

Embroidered shirt wore thin, shirts, and twill skirts without folds or no embellishment.

There was little furniture in the room, leaning against the right wall a mahogany table on which
burned a wax candle in a windshield or lantern, and several heavy chairs cedar cowhide seat and back,
nailed with brass tacks. At that time this had the luxury, much more for a woman of color,
who occupied that room as love and not as a maid. The gentleman shook his hand as he entered,
he only bowed serious while being funny and kind that no contest was even stranger, because
apart their difference in status and race, their respective ages
was remarkable at first view and there was no other relationship between
them than friendship, more or less sincere and selfless