 

As such, and taking into account the age and cheerful character of Cecilia, it is not surprising
that after passing concern, was delivered back into the arms of the pleasures that provided dance.
However, in the whirlwind of dance and the incense of adulation astounded that men wanted,
the sometimes troubled thinking of the risk ran her friend's brother Nemesia, for having defended
the insults of a madman or a murderer.

Therefore, as grateful woman, from that point began to feel a kind of José Dolores of sympathy
that he had never felt, and debt discount did not hesitate to express their fears. Rios can
not wait to hear it, replicating, perhaps to reassure that the Dionysus Gamboa, Jaruco or whatever,
was a miserable slave, very big mouth to parársele forward out of the dance, because the saying that
dog that barks does not bite much. Observole Cecilia coward as a slave and was more frightening
because treacherously attack, no face face. José Dolores replied to this, that, indeed, had
to be prevented and eyes wide, not give him the back, but otherwise he had already armed with
a knife he had borrowed from a friend, and had to be the man lynx kill him the first trip.

After ambigú and other dance between twelve and one o'clock, the dance
ended and everyone left for home.

Password Clara Uribe arm with her husband, Cecilia and Nemesia with her brother, went together
nice over settlements that had on that side of the road towards the gate in the wall, called
Earth be more immediate. Approaching the first corner of Broad Street and Cienfuegos, Cecilia
felt the shadow of a man, beating the front, turned right there. Suspected since then who could
be and tried to call attention to your partner, next opposite, indicating the cafe named Athens,
lonely, dark, near the statue Carlos III, into the ride. But the man did not pass by which she
hoped, be planted in the corner and said high: - Shameless, chincha blood, come here, if you're
handsome.

It was necessary to José Dolores had blood of this insect to be dropping
a similar challenge, made before the lady of his thoughts.

So he made to get rid their partners, which, holding each by an arm, would have won the try
if not come to their aid Uribe said the girls:

- Let give you a wet.

It was. José Dolores drew his knife, took his hat in his left hand to use as coating of the bull
before the matador, and followed the steps without getting too close otherwise.

Cecilia, Nemesia and password Clara, holding hands and Uribe, all trembling and anxiety is to
imagine, stood waiting near the corner of the result a fight that was bound to be bloody.
A little more heard the voice of José Argentina Dolores said: - Here, and the snoring of black that
said - here.

He began without the horrible struggle.

The total lack of street lighting, along with the darkness of a moonless night, prevented see
clearly the movements of combatants, despite the proximity to that were the viewer group. Assuming
you had the courage serene Dionisio Jose Dolores, had no much less agile and skillful in handling
the knife. This was plain soon because after a few sprains and take off his hat, first heard
a strange noise as a new fabric that is torn by power, and followed the rough of a heavy body
give ground. Nemesia Cecilia and gave a piercing scream and closed
their eyes.

Who of two had fallen? Moment of terrible anxiety!

While still mourning the fallen silently, the other step approach often seemed to the road.
In seconds, not minutes, left the thick darkness that surrounded him, much denser in the eyes
of those who waited and the shock could not see clearly. Came laughing, light as a deer, sheathing
his knife and put his hat torn to shreds. It was José Dolores Pimienta. Cecilia was the first
to meet him, not knowing what he did, by an impulse of generous and
sensitive soul, threw her arms around his neck, asking to Evening
- Have you been injured?

- Not a scratch! answered him, the more
proud as he felt his head over his heart of the woman he loved without
hope of correspondence.

In her hearing him, cried with pure joy that the girl who finds her wrist when deemed irrevocably
lost.

PART THREE

     CHAPTER I
      
      You dress a jasmine bush knows And the perfume you give it in the
gardens Fever to Lieo insane temper.

         

A. BELLO

Leonardo Gamboa Separose family after lunch in the meadow or pasture of Hoyo Colorado, and the
pleasant company of Diego Meneses took for between Vereda Nueva and San Antonio de los Banos
Alquízar around, heading southwest of your starting point.

A few miles were found in what is called Flatland out there, and just plain long, whose center
is occupied by that part of the population last name. His background is a calcareous very
porous and pure, covered with a layer of red earth, or color of brick,
in places quite thick and loose, accusing the iron oxide that is loaded
and a prodigious fertility.

With some interruptions level expands Callajabos west to the foot of the mountains of the
Vuelta Abajo and eastward to the limits of Columbus, and its generally narrow latitude.

Of course, in the higher portions of the table, there are natural sources or Nor rain often, but
it's so hearty the night dew that wets the floor and refreshes vegetation. Unknown in the country
no irrigation system, in this weather phenomenon must be attributed to growing the freshness
and the emerald green dress that plants in all seasons. In contrast, the uprooting of trees,
the general culture the table, particularly that part which our two travelers were touring had has
scared off the birds, and barely saw a group of Jewish another flight
heavy, penetrating cry, a couple of timid tojosas, a fleeting and
small Tomeguin Warbler immediate hiding in the bushes.

The more they went from Hoyo Colorado, more coffee were on either side of way, as these were the only
rural estates of some importance in the western portion the table, at least until 1840. We
speak now of the famous garden of Cuba, limited between the jurisdictions of Guanajay, Guira de
Melena, San Marcos, Alquízar, Ceiba del Agua and San Antonio de los Baños. Then there were not supported
farms for agricultural exploitation, in the strict sense of the word,
but real gardens for the recreation of their gourmet owners, while
the price remained high coffee.

Against the legal system of surveying observed in Cuba since ab initio, were divided these beautiful
farms in regular figures, whichever is square, and bounded with hedges all dwarf lemon trees,
with bushes and more commonly dry stone walls or fences exquisite and artistically constructed.
Cubríanse these creepers or bonuses, especially snowdrop, which opened on Easter, Christmas,
gave cheerful aspect to the countryside with its snow-white flowers,
in contrast to the strong green of the trees nearby, while with its
exquisite scent perfumed the air momentous for miles and miles.

His flamboyant and comfortable homes did not fall into the wide streets or roads that separated
from If the different properties. Looking rather bleak detention and which provided the interior
as they grew more lush then the orange of the Golden Globes, the lemon indigenous and exotic the
handle and the sleeve of India, breadfruit, broad-leaf plum trees of various species, the
copudo acidic tamarind pods, soursop fruit and sweet heart-shaped, the brave palm, well, notable
among the large plant family as the trunk straight, cylindrical,
smooth and thickness as the shaft of a Doric column, and the beautiful
fence that is topped pads perennially.

A flower of the road itself erected the entrance portal, best, triumphal arch, under whose shadow,
as by Caudine Forks, had to go to catch the broad avenue, lined with palms and orange, leading
to a secluded manor house, hidden beyond the thick trees. Even after moving well in, not always
fully discovered the village, or came to him right, because often occurred Avenue divided into
two branches, describing two half circles, one entrance, one exit, which limited the trees on
one side or bramble bushes, and opposite the flower gardens, made at a time in the light of
surprised traveler. Following any of these half circles, which gave insurance the home of the
owners and their immediate dependencies first, then the home, usually exempt from the mill, in
the center of a square or batey like, around the which were the awnings or coffee dryers, warehouses
or barns, stables, pigeon, poultry house and the village consists
of thatched huts of the slaves.

Leonardo Gamboa and his friend, the horses something smothered, covered and each other's vermilion
powder and subtle level ground, they saw the boundaries of the plantation La Luz, belonging
Don Thomas Ilincheta, about half a league from the village of Alquízar, after four pm on December
22, 1830. On the right of travelers, under a blue sky and without clouds, then put the glorious
sun of the tropics, whose scorching rays launched bundles of light through the branches of
trees, tending increasingly long shadow of the palms on the green,
studded with gayadas flowers, lit the time impalpable earth metal
atom that hung in the quiet environment.

Echoed in the distance with the sole of the horses the bottom porous and hollow earth flat,
so that, long before the riders touch the portal of the property, was already in the iron fence,
ready to open, the black porter, who had just emerged from a kind of large booth and plain tile
masonry, to the left.

Certainly recognized and those with escorrozos was so typical of
the people of his race and status saying

- Eye!

Eye! Child Leonardite sumerce Already vinyl? Ah!

Oh, and the child himself Dieguito asina.

- How is the family, congo?

Leonardo asked.

- Toos Bueno, GRASI Gave. Right now the girls in Dona Juanita. Viniar of Protero. Milagro not encountered
them children. If a little jar susmercés entoavía the reach more bale home.

And after talking with Leonardo said: - Ah! What if the girl will Legrá Isabelita! And girl Rosita!
(Talking to Meneses). I say No!

The two young men smiled and continued the transition from their horses in the middle of the
magnificent mall, hoping in secret, by a strange coincidence of feeling, which stretches some
over the term of his way.

Is that at times brought before the ladies of their love, Leonardo was afraid to receive him hers,
which is not used as a tender friend and lover, but as hard stern judge, for his past foibles
and fancies. To be honest, I felt something it was more like shame that happy. Diego, meanwhile,
next to perform the most ardent desire and intimacy of his chest, the back to see Rose in Paradise
Alquízar, after a year's absence, wanted to see if slowing the desired
time, calm down rather the tumult of his blood and could greet with
the composure of respectful gentleman.

But for now, or the meeting of this whim was given to our friends do. Because bypassing the avenue they
had, they could see the sisters penetrating in the most intricate of the garden where the roses
of Alexandria, Cape jasmine and carnations, the most beautiful competitors boast that Turkey and
Persia, if not were right to wrap its branches, without a doubt that enveloped their aromatic
fumes.

Also young, by the footsteps of the horses, became aware of the presence of travelers, recognizing,
especially at first to set foot ashore, leaving the saddle at will, and was Leonardo Gamboa.
Rosa, candida younger sister, made an exclamation involuntary joy, Elizabeth experienced the
opposite feeling. He remembered his farewell of Havana was not pleasant and cordial, and believed
that prior to entry into the chest of pleasure that Leonardo used to receive, needed at least
a satisfactory explanation for his of the past.

Neither Leonardo nor Diego were in clear reading ability in the face
of her friends passing in their minds when it came time to say hello,
depending on how cold and stiff Cuban customs calling, that is, without
significant handshake.

Was well marked, however, the change that occurred in the face of
the two sisters.

The Elizabeth serious aspect became pale, the Rose took the color of the flower of her name and
brief while, they neither they knew what to do or say. Touched after the most advised of the
women notice the embarrassing position of all, and to get out from the step, came one of the
characteristics of age flirtation and sex.

Isabel had in hand a rose Alexandria, opened the same evening, and the promised Meneses said:

-
Is not this your favorite flower?

Asomáronsele the colors of the graceful face, and became more colorful
than before the Rose, who already wanted to hide his own shame, and
amend the apparent snub made Gamboa removed a carnation that had caught
her hair and gave him stammering: - "This is not flower who prefers
the friend Leonardo?

This bit was enough to break the spell, except that by that afternoon and evening was devoted to Isabel
Giving, and meet Meneses, but did not see the point of reconciliation with Leonardo. Among So
together the four were to meet Joanna and Mr. Ilincheta coming to greet the newcomers.

Disappeared by then the light of day, and the breeze of the night, more to come laden with the perfume
of flowers and pleasant fumes emitted by the field that time, began to be felt. The ladies, especially,
had to appeal to the usual warm, the silk shawl, thrown carelessly over his shoulders. But at
times moving into the room rang the melancholy tolling of the bell is in the surrounding coffee
plantations and La Luz, masters and slaves calling for prayer and meditation. Dona on hearing Juana,
his nieces, the young men and THOMAS Ilincheta, these with hats in hand, and the servants of
the immediate family service with his arms crossed, all standing,
that lady began by saying: - Holy Mother!; to the bystanders answered
in chorus: Conceived without sin .-- The Angel of the Lord (continued
Mrs.) announced to Mary that the Son God the Father incarnate in her
womb, for redemption of the world.

Ave Maria! Mary admitted saying see here the servant of the Lord, unto me according to your
word Ave Maria! The Son of God became man and dwelt among us. Ave Maria!

Given the good nights, the first daughters and servants behind them, kissed the hand of Dona
Joan and Don Thomas, and received the usual answer God make you a saint or a saint.
Follow a maid told Elizabeth that the Contramayoral waiting at the
other side of porch. She asked guests to leave. His father, talking
to them, explained the reason in his absence by saying: - It is my
steward, cashier and bookkeeper, and believe that first is the obligation
of devotion