 Among Neluco and I supply the requested details about
his illness and death ... and jumped at once what I saw coming time did, and I wondered why
I had not jumped before the conversation: the point of continuing I was there the charity of my uncle.
Don Roman was silent here as death, and said the famous campurriano, after applauding the good intentions
declared by me to put all means to achieve such great goals, if I decided, in my procedures,
to serve protected my old wine into new bottles, which he does not disapprove, he did with
great touch, 'because - he concluded - and beautiful is the light, but do not open all the windows
suddenly those who have lived in darkness for ailments of the eye, for there to be afraid of the crazy
things enter through the dazzled eyes. " This could no longer remain silent Don Roman, and
gave the example Coteruco's fall, as a demonstration of what his friend said. Straightened the
conversation these lanes, we talked about what it cost him acclimate to life in the city could not
her such a man, born to breathe oxygenated air, pure, Nature, and also required the presence and
even the company of those men, rustic, even with their ingratitude. The action of leaving them
alone with his sin, had made very good fruit. Gradually raising had gone from his fall, and
already missed. This will consoled and satisfied him, and if he had not already Coteruco was
because I wanted to be desired a little more, to better ensure the healing of his "crazy."
Unfortunately not involved those children of their dreams, because they had other tastes very different,
but all could fixed with some sacrifice of everyone. Meanwhile, distracted by his impatience
with spells of a little grandson that God had given him, and was the most beautiful creature he
had born mother. He went then in proceeding with Sotorribas projects, so that the known his
other grandfather, Don Lazaro, whose ailments prevented him from leaving home.

Someone asked if there was true that Don Gonzalo González de la Gonzalera
had been poor memory and trouble and waste resulting from domestic,
but got no response the question because of a sudden appeared in the
room a new character that began to say that not for having shot three
times on the floor and almost burst the dappled in his desire to run,
had been reached before.

Thus came the unhappy muddy and tattered from head to toe! He was a man of good age, nice picture
... and its municipal judge people, from that very empingorotado that I had met one of my blood
of promise, Neluco going to the Tower of Provedaño. The case was that by going to ride early
in the morning attend the funeral of my uncle, had delivered a letter from the court of first
instance forcing him to practice some procedures as he entertained about two hours ... all respects
to "trigedia" the day before, that I should know, and for this the truth were told, for who
knew him mainly came.

Hicímosle seat at the table, preventing Facia that were served from the noodle soup inclusive,
and while out Tona and his mother was changing and removing leftover food destroyed in stews, and
all we paid him very great care, he noted that lowering a pastor of winter, just started the
desnieve, cross country, because it pushed the ran very cold and
a black cloud of bad part and worse road, stopped for a moment and
take a tinderbox and light the pipe, the same mouth of a covachón,
known to very few for being out of path frequented, as half the distance,
the short cut between Tablanca and the people of relatante, but in
this municipality.

Standing there and give the pastor you hit the edge of the knife, because it sparked the stone
was not tinder the best, notes on the nose gives a "jedor" that would lie on his back. Look
here smells there, note that the jedor out of the cave, curiosity tempt them, enter, and at
a bend very wide, to the right, sees three men lying in the long run, face up, stiff and almost
stacked on each other, killed three and leaning against one of ash and embers Piluca off.
Frightening, flee from there, and for being the closest, according to his account, gives the
people the narrator relates what he has seen. It goes back in his office, accompanied by appropriate
way, and truth is denounced by the pastor. Three were, indeed, the bodies and of well-known
place, and were well equipped firearms ... and up ropes and knives. Without doubt the surprise
snowstorm there since the beginning, and they perished from hunger and cold ... by decree
of God who knew his evil intentions. It was a comb that was called an engineer and said go in search
of a gold mine, months made and, with his ragged clothes, his matted hair and wild beard and
seams in the face, it started half an eye and nose.

Here there was a clatter of dishes infernal tattered, and a cry of Facia who is had fallen
from his hands as a dozen of them. Then I looked and found her looking at me me with frightened
eyes and the color of death in the face. I told him to mine not to commit indiscreet; entendióme,
and added in words and smiling was not the mess one reason to be frightened so much, referring
to the pieces, while snuggled Tona the municipal judge's two half-full of dishes knowledgeable
sources, so some pasmadona had caught the story, but probably more by the disaster of the vessel,
which had started her mother cry.

Relatante to become the story after this incident, and seeing that, out of respect for I certainly
was with Repulgue and fussiness to testify who were net Castilian the other two dead, apresuréme
to say:

- I am well aware of who it is, and you want to avoid reluctance to declare before me are two
of my relatives, of the two gentlemen of promise. With a that the engineer lived CHIRLA, in
his hometown of you: we saw them together and I passed Neluco for him, going to Provedaño. As good
news source, then waiting overnight missing brother of one my relative
(who, apparently, arrived in time) to give final blow to the exploitation
of gold mine he had discovered the lynx wild beard.

In good justice, had three more than deserved the stick, which had dead are not dying in this
different manner. So you see you if I have to reason, as far as touches my relatives, to rejoice
that they have finished well, like any good man.

Preopinante said was the truth that everything I had said, added in response a question that someone
did, that the man in the face Chirlo had lived in the place with the name, certainly, of course,
Pedro Gonzalez as reflected in his personal card, and that that had been registered as dead
in the book in question; alegréme yo this, and surely would be glad Facia, who listened, much
more ... and ended the conversation without getting into a new one, because he had also finished the
meal, time was pressing and had much to outsiders for the guests go back to their homes each,
and other to complete their journey.

Because Don was the first leg advantage to Recaredo Tablanca to transact business, yet that step
and a half ago in a village of Nansa downstream, and was also renowned chores campurriano
emergency in the capital so he took with Don Roman and her husband. Disappeared without knowing how
Don Lope; depart, while he was eating everything put in front of the municipal judge aforesaid,
the two unequal and the five wealthiest Caórnica Nansa upstream and downstream of the house, ended
at last, eating the remaining eating, and went off too, and well stocked, instead ...

The next day, very early, took off to Robacio's sister and brother-Neluco, and few hours later,
alas! I also left the whole family of giant of Castañalera.

XXXI

And that was the darkest for me! Of me, alone in the fields of muted and stiff the manor house,
castle of my new and patriarchal dominion, in the poor soil of "my greatest." Everything was
wide, all I was left over there and all I came up, as if built in
the air, since he had returned home the family of the old Marmitón.

Because the continued presence of some women as lively and happy as these two, more hectic
when engaged and walked in and out of so many different people in
recent days, could not find me in its true light the void left in
the death house of habitation and venerable owner, who, alive, filled
her whole and was also the bond that tied me to it with the strength
of my commitment, funded primarily in consideration of what he considered
the gift of my company.

Often came to see me and Neluco Cura Don Sabas, and spent long hours with me, still the gathering
of the night very busy and lively; presidial me with the greatest assiduity, and made pluck
up the courage to believe a lot of fun in it, or to let him know ahead of those rustic and good
commentators, ocupábame at times to dispatch or to fix my mail papers and accounts of the
estate, spoke to Facia and I was pleased to see how believing and, under the news brought by the
municipal judge of yore, and my subsequent reflections, forever free of the cross that had so
oppressed and kept assuming at the bottom of a grave the secret of what could be an affront
to his daughter, was the poor women turning to life, and gradually regained the strength of
his spirit exhausted, crying and praying while the hapless man, died
with the black-stained soul intentions after an eventful life and
criminal gozábame also decipher the impenetrable continent of Chisco
certain characters confused himself betrayed in their glee pechazo
gentle and deep from the legacy of the "stack of ounces", and pull
his tongue to know how he was since then in their dealings and friendships
with the family of Toper, which, as I know, has been humanized a lot
with him and even "caught him with eyes memorials" and even with some
hints too suggestive; interesábame Pito Salces really that amurriadote
and suspicious walked fearing that would have changed the good dispositions
of Tona to him since his mother was rich, and even on their own, taking
the poor for contempt astonishment, very natural, which fell monsoon
sets in those days of fat, left home sometimes to vent some ideas
and stretch cramped limbs, but was always waterlogged soil as a sponge
and cold the sun that illuminated the valley, while I mowed the beard
the environment not put out a match and had to go back to my hole
without having dared to fall on stony ground where it wanted to conduct
impulses of my need to socialize with someone who understood me; tramábala
with Chisco later or the first one I put forward, and, finally, even
sought, following the teachings of Neluco bucolic, down to my right,
the brighter, the dark places of those men to find the desired level
and with it the promised pleasure, but even so, I left over endless
hours of solitude and silence in those aged and black moors echoing
the echo of my steps give fever as if under a gloomy vaults dungeon,
and wherever you look, that my heroic efforts to make life bearable
was not there to be anything other than work in prison, even with
the tough, deep and tempting to want to escape.

Be escaped, because he had returned to imponérseme this idea, not the first time going through my
brain felt like a blast, but as an irresistible itch that was falling apart at times the work
of my acclimation, almost nearing completion now. It seemed to drain a truly despicable, but the bodies
left in the air, fall under its own gravity; I felt so down, broken, with the death of my uncle,
the link that bound me over to the house. Admittedly, I left the bonds of commitment and solemnized
many times before so many different people, but it was also true that he had put that commitment
I limit 'as I possibly could, "and that, assuming that it became capable to penetrate the work of
my uncle to work on it, my work would not be continuous or individual hour or even every day, whereas
the tedious reality that was suffocating me continuously Perennial, all the time.

Constantly struggling between these impulses empecatados and dislikes of my consciousness formal
man, there were times when I laughed at my own, seeing reason with the criterion ill-assorted
a schoolboy with his confinement. What things occurred to me to justify a trip, with a promise
to return and intention not to fulfill it!

After sobering up and giving more of my thoughts to consider the value detúveme of which had achieved
good results with the work of my own observations, and example and preaching, more or less directly,
my uncle, Neluco, Mr. de la Torre of Provedaño, mostly, and many others of great rides, and then
I felt ashamed I have thought as to shake the burden of my sorrows.

Placed in this area, soon realized that what I needed at once and with urgency to exit gracefully
from the conflict, was to acquire other bonds to replace what's broken by death, another new
link Tablanca me to join, and not as closely as it was my uncle, to the point, at least he left
the house to be a prison for me.

Well. But this link where to find him? What breed was it? ... Who knows the spaces then walked
to the angry and visionary imagination! In this fast and crazy ride I found no quiet time or
rest, because everything seemed wrong to make a high Respite ... until I found the most singular
of occurrences. But it was even a assumptions on which to conclude the analysis fatigued. As
a result, and with all the scrupulous detail of whom, as I meditate
on that matter as serious as the first time in his life.

I raised thoughts over the barriers craggy valley, and carried him far, far away of Tablanca,
closed my eyes, I went to the parts of memory, and was extracting from it a legion of images, which
I later paraded one by one, ahead of me. When he had spent the last figure of this bizarre procession
returned to the thought the realities of Tablanca montunos ... and I put my hands to his head
as he realizes that has been filling it with nonsense ideas for saving. I turned off the flashlight
of my thoughts and, oh surprise, with the last ray of light I saw her breeze through obfuscated
terms of imagination, a new and unexpected image that seemed to have itself the power to resolve
all the difficulties of conflict. But ... And I ended up making me crosses and to laugh.

Was still laughing when he came Neluco.

- So I like to see you - I said - and not with the degustation of these sad days ago.

- For her return, Neluco friend - I said - if God does the miracle that I ask.

- However, you laugh now ...

- Laughing Rabbit ...

- I do not insist - said the doctor - because I do not want to have
you by reckless, but I assure you, without that fear, more than twice
had asked him in recent days on the grounds of a disappointment that
you could not hide.

Woke up this statement Neluco the idea, not entirely asleep on me, to confess with him as Facia
had pleaded with me.

Could expect much from the advice of your experience, and, ultimately, the relief given in
the crush of departing spirits of the resource them with a good understanding friend.

- Exactly - I said armándome resolution - I had a great desire to have a paragraph with you on
these individuals. So, now or ever.

I closed the door of my cabinet, sentámonos the two with the table between them, and began to
speak as follows:

- You must know, friend Neluco that since returning to the rule of order and silence in this
house after my uncle died and was buried, I do not know where to invest the hours I have plenty
in it ... I seem endless, do not see how to improve them and it scares me the future with a
similar perspective. This is the truth of what happens to me, will I have to your good friend,
and you declare it.

- Why? - I asked the doctor, very quietly, after a silent contemplation
moments.

- For now - I answered - so that you know, then, that, if
any kindly assist me with his authoritative advice.

- What? - Ask
me again with the same serenity as before.

- Well, I like the occurrence,
gee - I cried a little bit by that way of cornering, that looked very
much like a joke rather heavy -.

What is meant here to help a man perishing in the bottom of a cliff?

-
Excuse me - "the doctor - but either I'm not in my right mind, or
the case I quoted for example, is not entirely applicable to your
particular case.

Which is in the bottom of a cliff, can have no other desire than
to go out and get away from him and you, in the situation today is,
you can serve in two ways: helping out it, or go for a test work bearable
and even fun.

Now you tell which of these two extremes is.

- The best seems to you - I said - or both together ... In order to
please you in my case, tell me frankly.

- Well, frankly I say - said
the doctor not to wonder what happens to you.

I expected ... Be clear: Don Celso expected dead and you alone at home, was to it seem bigger,
blacker and bleaker than before, and the time spent on it very long and tiresome. Nothing more
natural in a man of taste, education and you worldly background.

I did not expect it to arrive their disappointments so far that, apparently, has come ...
Well, look you, Don Marco: courtesy or even I encourage you to divert your boredom, get the hell next
to Tablanca; advice that, or I can not read faces or is it more had you to thank me. And do
not give, I am quite sure that if the long run you in the state of
mind that is now, not here again for all the days of his life.

-
Men - said I caught in the middle of right - that's saying a lot.

-
No more and no less than fair - "the doctor - because it is the truth,
and you can not and should not do that, but let's forgotten some promise
and to the solemn occasion which was ratified, because you have nothing
to do in this world that tempts him, and here yes, because there -
and dispense openness - despite his personal merits, it would not
to be one in the bunch of anonymous, and this would play a much more
lucid, not by the glitz of its hierarchy, but by the charitable status
of the position.
