 The priests were renowned for practicing physicians and sucks healing.
All believed in the existence of another life.

Itonama.

Under this denomination, there was a nation that was the most numerous in the province of Moxos.
This nation, which probably gave it the name it bears inhabited the northeastern part of the
province, on the banks of the river Itonama, from the great lake to near its confluence with the
Rio Machupo, ie between 13 and 14 degrees south latitude and 65 and 67 west of Paris. Once scattered
in various tribes over land less flooded and amid the forests that adorn the banks of the river,
had for neighbors towards the north, to the Ites or Itenes, east
of Baures, westward to the Canichana; and towards the south to the
Moxos.

The complexion of the Itonama, darker than the Moxos, is equal to
that of the Chapacuras.

His height seems to be generally one of the smallest of the province have the highest barely five
feet and four inches: the women keep the ordinary proportion.

The Itonama differ too much from the other nations of Moxos as to the forms. Very far are they having
such a structure Herculaneum, the bulk of the other bizarre indigenous, and although their backs
are quite wide, the rest of your body, thin and weak, seems to be revealing the lack of strength.
Her legs are so thin and with a joint so outstanding that easily distinguish a Itonama Indian nation
among natives of other nations.

The women, but also lean, they are nevertheless in a less apparent than men: on the contrary, being
of lesser bulk, appear better educated than those of neighboring towns.

If you notice a marked difference in height and forms of Itonama compared with the Moxos, she
is not so remarkable as to the factions, however, face of Itonama, but with the same detail
of form, seems to be less plump and longer that those natural cheek bunions are more protruding
head general is smaller and narrower face. They have small eyes and horizontal. The aspect of
the male is effeminate, and his beard, when they are, very unpopulated. His face, which usually
announces the shyness and sorrow, yet lively, and offers the kind of falsehood and cunning: but
the factions of the men have nothing disgusting, and there are even
some that can go through graceful.

It is not possible to say as much of the women, who are usually ugly.

The language of the Itonama, entirely distinct from the dialects of other nations province, not a
lack of harmony, and if it is hard to the pronunciation of many words the large number of
vowels that employees do sometimes euphonious. Most of the words, that make this language pointed
end in vowels, and the very few that deviate general rule, ending in t, m, s, ch and the French:
the Spanish j is little used, and almost always takes the composite sound of the letters that
accompany them, as JNA, SLB, etc.; the nasal or rare, f and x are quite strangers, also found
the mute e of the French, but very few times. There is meanwhile
no anomaly with respect to the names of body parts