 Do not answer me. Dad suffer an emotion
that perhaps cost him his life ... and could olvidárseme you're my brother.

- Each one does his duty as understood.

- Yes?

For date and warned: the Holy Viaticum, the rogue has the farolón and you ... I throw down
the stairs.

- We'll see!

Pepe, overcoming his anger, he tried to speak calmly and, feeling cold blood Tirso boasted that,
wanted to show equal serenity.

- I was afraid this scene, but I will not dodge it ... When you come to Madrid, and climbing
you entered the railway station Santa Maria, staying there a long time, without any rush to
meet your parents, because it appears that they do not know him, I guessed what would be your
fanaticism, but I never imagined that followed the fight. Then, given your background and seeing
hidden live at home as a criminal, I suspect that had come to Madrid for business that were not
yours ... Remember, except the first exit at twilight made the afternoon of the day you came
only after many days you venture out into the Street, after two or
three visits to the gentleman who came to see you, when you know I
was already fulfilled your mission.

You see I've followed step by step.

I noticed your effort not to speak to us of certain things, because I loathe our ideas about politics
war and trabucaires priests, and, finally, I have endured your mom to turn tricks and what you
intend to quarrel Miller and Leo ... In short, I know you thoroughly. You, however, do not
know what I'm capable.

- What?

- Yes, it is not credible, Dad, spontaneously asked some aid, I am the first to respect their will.
But, understand well, if you bring confessor, per diem ... come on, any nonsense that can scare
you and cause disease in a dangerous crisis, I swear, by my mother and the love of women to whom
I will not treat you as a brother. Your behavior depends on my prudence. We finished!

- Everyone will meet its obligation.

- Abur! - And Pepe, walking
on tiptoe, got into his room.

Tirso a while he stood alone in the room, pensive and motionless:
the lamp, expiring, dismissed Suddenly two or three sparks of the
wick, and dry, the quake caused light on the wall convulsively shaking
it in the shadow of the priest, and then he, looking almost felt for
the door of her bedroom, lit a candle and, after praying their prayers,
lay down, but took a long time sleep.

The energy of his brother had completely baffled: Pepe was a better
man than he imagined.

The next morning, Dona Manuela, before going shopping, as usual, went for a Pepe kiss, as he had
dressed to leave for work.

- I'm going to buy, bye, son.

- And to Mass, right, Mom?

She, smiling warmly, saying only:

- What's wrong with that?

- In that, nothing, but, hey, mama. Last night I had one clinging to Tirso, the thing had to
happen, and came. I suppose you will have spoken of certain projects that attempted, on dad,
you imagine the effect produced. Told my brother, imponle sanity, because I am willing everything.

Tirso
not fulfilled their threats, nor be altered again by then, the quiet
of the house; but both brothers realized that this quiet, violent
energy obtained by one and the apparent submission of another, was
not lasting peace, but a temporary truce.

XIX

Dear Pepe: Imagine
how upset I'll be: four days since we've seen, and rabies to quarrel
with you. Silly, silly me, did you think you know I had not find your
sorrows to share? The guy you have said, surely the questions you
did and how I answered. I am convinced that all told you. You can
not imagine the grace I made her disinterest. Do you forgive me to
bribe your servers? I, however, will not forgive you your lack of
candor