 In
fact, it was America who held this conversation with another no less mischievous schoolboy, for
it using a kind of postal communication established under the folders through a slide wire running
from one job to another to hide from others schoolchildren and parents. Affecting both friends
found busy in student assignments. Nor rumor, nor looks, disturbed the peaceful silence of the study
room. Seats of both were close. The thread running smoothly under tables, carrying and bringing
a piece of paper, in which each wrote his macaroni, usually referring to events of the day,
and so sweetly spent hours entertaining to the great detriment of the Lesson noted. Sometimes
it worked the telegraph sub - Carpetani only to note that Father Fernandez was drooling or
Solís father was shooting the bonnet. Nearly the reader is well versed in the humanities macaronic,
transcribed dialogue will be deducted That morning she had married D. Benigno Cordero in the
chapel of Dolores de San Isidro. This great event was observed in late June.

D. was Benigno on that occasion, serene and serious, like a man who
fulfills the most important duties.

One seemed happy without affectation, the boys were happy Crucita and cursing. The blessing
was given by Father Gracian, who held Cordero long conference on the afternoon of that day a hundred
times pomp.

Let us now leave this worthy family, who always seem few all blessings the sky, and follow the
venerable Jesuit, whose steps are now of great interest. Accompanied the young man who used to
walk with him, left the Imperial College, took to the streets of Studies and into that of the Maldonados,
stopped his steps in the door of a call establishment, whose name was more appropriate tenducho.
Looked inside, saw no one, he looked back, calling, and the spell of the voice, a huge tinajón
Hastened away to donuts that he was cornered. He fell from an old mat, they parted two brooms,
and the movement gap these pieces turned out, saw himself appear a figure of stunted little
woman, who advanced limping.

- Romualda, what were you doing there?

The girl rubbed her eyes.

- I was asleep - he replied.

- How well you take care of the store?

Shop!

Just for hyperbole itching to give this name could mean Aguaducho,
consisting of a half dozen bottles, a large jar of cherries in brandy,
brass case with front glass half full of cakes and sugar cubes, and
a couple of jugs of water Arganzuela.

- I was very sleepy - said
Romualda -.

I had a sleepless night waiting for Father Lopez, happened between
two lights.

- Intoxicated maybe .... Praise God!

... And now is your father at home?

- I do not know ... rise. My stepmother is in bed.

- Go up, and if your father, tell him to get off at the time. I need to give a message.

While Romualda up, leaving the good priest and their companions at the door of the establishment,
say how wealth and sufficiency of happened that demoralized family butcher the narrowness of
a miserable trade in water and wine. At home where there are no links or the emotions that make
up the family, where peace is leaving his post to discord and services take the place of the
economy and sobriety, can not in any way settles the prosperity. Nazaria activity and intelligence
did not suffice to mitigate the ill effects the laziness of Lopez, which not only wasted in
the acquired clumsy fraucachelas with their dirty tricks and political connections, but also
knew hurry, leaving them in the pure tables, desk drawers, full of fat depletion of the morning. Nazaria
not spent on frivolities, but in luxury and wasteful whims. Insisted to buy a gem another, and no
lights up out of his home left without taking hands, in exchange
for good money, the rich shawl, the comb of shell, ivory fan, the
proud Flemish lace and other valuable items rich houses of Madrid
daily show the dark haul market. The butcher produced a lot, but the
genre and Candelario Mortanchez does not fall out of the blue, he
soon began to decline the house, reeling and staggering fell around
a year, into the abyss of disgrace