 And then if
you should offer a moral lesson to his readers, have the boy exchange of overnight, by sheer
force of hunger and satiety, in a despicable creature, revealing and the bottom of junk in
the heart of every human being there. Introduce you to all the dark reality of life, bracts
in this ocean of mud, unable to float, and drowning choking, drowning .... But, yes, let you fall in
love with the lady hydrophobia opposite, because in that great dramatic device has to be based
around the fictional building. If I were in charge of developing the plan, I would do so ingenious,
never seen or novels or dramas.

- To see, to see? - Interrogate all, I enter for the sake of my literary thoughts friend, others
by curiosity and desire to see in all their horror that the intellectual cesspool atrocious ingenuity.

-
I would do next - continued: - I would be very desperate, not knowing
what to do to communicate and engage with the lady across the street.

Suppress that of the bird, which is unbearable. (The poet left betrayed, with a wave of indignation,
her outraged mother's love.) He thinks sometimes get a bandit to rob the lady, others would
think burning the house to get the lady in his arms. Meanwhile becomes thin, yellow, cadaverous-looking
a fool or sorcerer, the house is falling apart, and their misery is forced to eat rats. (Cantarranas
closed his eyes after looking at the sky in anguish.) One day he passes the trick lies a clever,
and for this I have to assume that lives, not in the house opposite but in the attic of the
house. Property so the scene is easy to understand his plan, which is inserted down the barrel
of the fire and sneak up to the main floor.

- What horror - the poet said, covering her face with her hands .--
It is going to smudge!

If only had to wash before being presented to her! ...

- No matter which soot - the novelist .-- I continued to paint a very beautiful lady, yes, but
with a contraction in the face to denote their ferocious instincts. He has had many lovers; is
capricious woman: one of these corrupted characters that abound in society, marking different degrees
of relaxation that comes at every stage the human species. Has had as I said, many querindangos,
and finally comes to falling in love with a black brought from Cuba by a banker, a wicked usurer,
a bandit in tails.

With this background, I can develop the dramatic situation, a horrible effect sublime. Let's see:
she is in her room, languidly sitting next to a veladorcillo, and think in the Apollo Jet, patent
leather object of his passion. Browse an album, and from time to time his face contracted with the
sinister grimace that makes it so terribly beautiful. Suddenly feel noise in the chimney: the lady
shakes, look and see that it comes leaping over of the logs on, a grimy man: in his delirium,
thinks that is black: domínanla the same time wonder and lust. The light turns off. Pataplum!
... How about to you this situation?

- I say that you are the devil
himself, or has some magic that will inspire charming admirable "I
said things confusing to the invention comely D. Marcos, which seemed
at the time top few among ancient and modern, have imagined the most
subtle traces of romance.

The poet was a bit crestfallen, not because it looked better if his
own or because, having by the offspring of D. detestable Mark, I find
fatal loss can limit get the most enlightened minds.

Not be amiss to say with the greatest reserve I'm here, to illustrate to my readers, that the poet
had, among others, a defect that is usually be commonplace among females that hold the pen
when the needle only serve ie, envy.

"Then see you now - continued D. Mark - how har I the denouement of this great event. The next
morning there was found the lady in her boudoir, and spent two pastes
of soap removed the soot from his face.

His anger is immense: it is angry, has discovered the deception, and in desperation da shrieks you
hear from the street. The young, meanwhile, tries to escape, seeing the anger she adores. Mandingo
wants to kill the stranger, who is zealous, but instead of going down the stairs, he is forced to rise
by the same barrel of the fireplace not be seen in certain counties that comes to the time
at home.

Fate makes it difficult to climb up the canyon, having been so easy
to fall, and while laboriously struggles to rise, slipped and fell
into the basement, and then, without knowing how, to a drain, ending
up in the gutter, where they drown like a rat.

The round will find the next day they took him in the garbage trucks to the cemetery. As we do not
have Morgue, must give effect to a good end. "

Thus spoke the realist D. Marcos. Cantarranas was more nervous than ever, and the poet took a squirt
of essences, to apply to the cartridge that had the nose: this unique
little squirt flacon was that he had seen in all French novels.

It's true that D. Marcos inspired deep disgust, so she called him a barrel of prose, no doubt
for revenge the other, which in a critical article once called basket of nonsense.

I do not know what to do in the presence of two faults as authorized and yet so contradictory. Appear
to hesitate between my hero giving the bird bread crumbs, or sticking
her head in sinks of the palace of his beloved.

I looked at the Grand Duke, and I saw him with his head down and hanging like ripe fig. The poet was in
a paroxysm of fury secret. How I could settle on a solution contrary to the ideas of Cantarranas,
when it was my Patrons, or to avail myself of one of its most beloved figures, big oak that
shaded swab to this modest literary field? And at the same time, how offend Don Marcos arts
as experienced in a novel? How to renounce his plan, which was the newest, most strange, the
boldest, most surprising of how many had conceived the human imagination? In such a critical
situation I was with the manuscript in the hands, mouth open, eyes surprised, uncertain and troubled
the chest Magin, when he came to me from my stupor and to cut the thread of my doubts of the
fourth voice of the characters that made up the jury. Until then had remained silent, in an
old armchair, whose mane of countless holes out: was there, sphinx-like, accentuated by the unique
expression of his face severe. I think now is the chance to describe to this character, certainly
more important four, and I shall do so.

IV

If forty years of tireless hard work, continuous service to the art,
to the letters to the youth, are enough to raise title to a man on
his contemporaries, None should be more top of the vulgar crowd D.
Severiano Carranza, known between the arcades Mastodontiano Flavonio
Rome.

It was almost academic, because whenever vacaba a chair is a candidate,
though he never wanted to choose.

His forte was erudition gleaned in all fields: history, poetry, fine arts, in philosophy, numismatics,
apparels. I remember his last work, that shook the world from pole to pole, to treat a serious
issue, namely, whether the Archpriest of Hita was not the custom or sock upside down, deciding
our author negative, to the great scandal and clamor of the Academies of Leipsic, Gottingen,
Edinburgh and Regensburg, which said that Carranza was a famous pitcher in daring soul to deny
a fact that was part of the treasure of mankind's beliefs. Why, and his dissertation on Erymantho
boar tusks, which was the cause of endless nibbled between the most famous scholars? I will not
say anything, because everything runs in the hands of the world, famous discourse on how to
combine des tees and Art in Metro Mayor, which will lift up the horns of the moon, if earlier,
to the glory of Spain and glorification of himself, had not written and given to the stamping
Oda never quite expensive to the invention of powder, which called this chemical Flaminea atmosphere.
This is his only work of fantasy. The others are all learned, because he lives consecrated to the
notes. As a critic, is not matched or the same Cantarranas, although there are biographers who
equate it to him, and there were some who said he excelled in many things. Suffice it to say
that Carranza had read As human feathers left, is worthy of note that every book that pass
through his memory left There is a small sediment or deposit, although not larger than a drop of
water.

There was no date that he did not know, nor name to ignore, or data that was unknown, no coincidence
that escapes his penetration and huge memory. It is true that this store pulled the cargo of
his criticism, which had more indigestible than savory because there is no old thing that will
bring up, or dig up that classical author at every step to take and bring such to the giants in
the day of Corpus. Writing was prolific: his style is composed of
the most crisp and curling phrases is given imagine.

Thereby polishing his prose, which looked like a hair with cosmetic and mandolin, can serve
mirror and his songs were such that they believe curled with tongs. Never repeated a word in a
single sheet of paper, for fear of redundancy and singsong. In some occasion, having spoken in an
article in ivory toothpick of a woman, was forced to repeat it by force of seeming vulgar syntax
and word stick, he called the ebony dagger that object. For this reason in her writings about
buzzwords their enemies, the rage of envy, called bizarre. Treat him pedantic was commonplace
among gaceterillos evil that always bother to great men fleas as the lion.

The person of the scholar Carranza was as remarkable as his works. It consisted of a destroncada
body not very equal on two legs, arms and shoulders cansadísimos small, embellished around the building
a monumental hat, under which was often seen on clear days, the head more archaeological ever.
After the tie, which affected some misalignment, which most stood out was the mouth, where
once dwelt all graces, and now there was or a tooth, and the nose would have been the most unlikely
of his face if not occupy First a bulky glasses after which the keen eye and acute critic flashed.

These
eyes were those who looked at me sternly that troubled me, this face
was the voice that as solemn as a waterfall, took the floor and said:

"Oh
imaginations loss of youth!

Baseness of feelings Oh! Oh corruption century! Oh baseness of ideas! Oh loss of taste! Oh annihilation
of the classic rules! Is there more formidable machine of nonsense that you wrote and no more
heap of nonsense that that lady and that gentleman have said? What times we live? What republic
have? Go, lady, to sew your socks and to skim the pot, and You D. Marcos, to care for their children
if they ha, and you, young man, to learn a trade, most account you have any occupation, even
if unpleasant, vile, that writing books. Why, Is the field of letters grass pasture for all
kinds of pecus, or garden frondosísimo where only the finest mills can find pleasures and amenities?
Go cooks thought, to flavor soups vulgar and not tasty, it's not
so rude as to hands to prepare the delicacies served at the banquet
of the gods.

"

Semiramis when you appear as the shadow of reproach him Nino for his tricks, as Hamlet when he
hears the ghost of his father by revealing the crimes of the Sena Gertrude; as Moses when
he sees the Lord in the burning bush, so we were all: silent, cold, petrified with fear. The
prayer of the man, taken by an oracle, his unusual appearance, his stern look and the echo
of his shrill little voice, we instilled such fear, which had to elapse good amount of time
before I take breath, and draw your flacon poet, and closed mouth the great Duke.

Finally we recovered from the terror, and Carranza, noting the good effect his words had produced,
lashed back against us, and thereby took umbrage with D. Mark, I think not stay healthy bone.
The poet was bewildered and did nothing to disguise fanning anger, while Cantarranas seemed bent
on strength of its natural goodness, to be from the tremendous critical.

"And for this I have called! - He said .-- The fault is who, leaving serious occupations and
the delicious company of the Muses, to attend these lectures, where he made his lungs lay the
with so much nonsense. "

Then I, with a daring challenge that now scares me the wrath of Aristarchus, I said

"But since I had the audacity to bring you here, oh man famous, I would not be allowed ask the greatest
favor that could make me, helping with their lights to improve this monstrosity my bad that star
comes to the world?

- Yes, I will do so gladly - replied the wise man suddenly sliced
smooth and mellow land .-- I am going to tell you how I develop my
mind, but have to promise that I will not be interrupted by applause
or other similar event.

Begin, Therefore, stating that I would place the action of my work in ancient times, picturesque
times and interesting, when there was no street lighting, and yes many rounds and a large number
of brackets; when the leading men opened a palabrilla carcass, and
the ladies went to mantle these streets, followed by Celestine and
props, when kept with seven keys honor, but if it means not to lose
in a heartbeat.

I do not know how there are mills so blunt that novel with things
and people in the present era, where there are no elements literary,
as all learned men have tested it fully.

The devil would not occur painting adventures on a cobbled street with gas lanterns. For God and
the saints, is it nothing more ridiculous than a loving dialogue, which appears at every moment
the word you made to ask what the weather, prices of meat, etc .?...
Well, I be contained my characters in the seventeenth century, and
open the scene with great noise of knives and many pardieces and vote
to heal, then the comings and goings of constables, and, finally,
the cracked voice an old pimp who comes with his lantern to recognize
the face of the dead.

"

We all watched, amazed at the colorful table in no time had traced that incomparable master.

"The poor young man who has put you in the attic, where it is very retebién, will be contained I was
a provincial gentleman, broke and with lousy star. Has come to Madrid in search of fortune,
and requests that make you captain of Thirds, which goes to the mint in Mecca, unable to get
anything but contempt. The lady in front is of the highest nobility, daughter of a huntsman of the
Royal Family, or anything like that, which gives it entry in the Palace, and is well conquest
of Kings, Princes and infants. Will put in some garlic rapabarbas sly servant or third party to do,
because novel or comedy without rapist charlatan and intriguing, pot without bacon is not Augustinian
sermon. And how could I paint the scenes of taverns, the knife, the quarrels that always runs as
Master or Master Blas Pedrillo! Why, and the love scenes? What discretion, what tenderness, what
metaphorical richness I had to put there!