 "Come, Caledonia, put on your skirt new
you go home with booty. I will point in a piece of paper what I want to make no mistake. " Said
and done. What least had to ask the lady to face that day pomp, two roast chickens, four fried
whiting and a good piece of sirloin, with the help of fresh ham, egg yolk, and support a dozen
bartolillos? ... Hala!

Did not make the lady, with this announcement a refreshing meal, hold the imagination and will
of Frasquito that since he took the money he was eaten by a wild desire to go out Street,
running, flying, wings because he believed they were born. "I, madam, I have to do this afternoon
... I find it necessary to leave ... Also, I need to give me some air ... Feel and a little
dizzy. Exercise for me, believe me that I should ... Also urges me to my tailor many sightings,
but nothing more than to make me aware of fashion are now, and prepare to see some article
... I'm very difficult, and take long settle on this or other fabric.

-
Yes, yes, go on errands, but does not run a lot and see this happy
event, as I see it, a lesson that gives Providence.

For my part, I declare myself convinced of the are good order and arrangement, and make firm
intention to write down everything, absolutely everything I spend.

- And the income too ... So will I, ie I did, but I have not earned, it creates you, a friend
of my soul, that I have not earned.

- Taking certain income, the point is to accommodate the inputs to outputs, and not to exceed
... By God, dear Ponte, again do not to laugh at the barbarity of
balance and ... Now I know that Trujillo is right.

- More balance
I have, madam, I have hair on his head, and I tell you I would not
have been better than heat the ibid.

- Since God has favored us,
we ordered: I would venture to beg you, if no use for trouble and
go shopping, I bring a book of accounts, calendar, or is called.

"

For not so! Not a book, but half a dozen would bring Frasquito with all my heart, and so promising
it was launched into the street, eager to air, light, to see people recreate in things and
people.

Pull, walking mechanically, went to the Paseo de Atocha, unaware aware of it. Then back up
because he liked being among households than among trees. Frankly, we were unfriendly trees,
probably because, passing them in hours of despair, I thought they offered their arms to hang
herself. Penetrating in the streets with no fixed address, watched the tailor's shop windows
with display beautiful fabrics, the tie and smart shirt. I kept having a look to restaurants,
and generally to all stores in her long life of hardship embarrassing had watched with dismay.

Spent
in this happy few hours wandering without fatigue. He felt strong, healthy, and even robust.
He looked kind, or a breeze of protection, as many beautiful women or acceptable to his side passed.
A showcase of perfumery tone suggested a good idea happy: he had thrown his gray hair in an unbecoming
air without dressing and composing with black dye dissimulation,
and that beautiful store offered opportunity to remedy such serious
error, there inaugurating the campaign to restore its existence, due
to start for the restoration of his damaged face.

There changed since the first ticket ream D. give him Romualdo Kidron, after becoming present different
items, made provision abundance of those who thought most necessary, and pay without haggling,
ordered him to be brought to Francisca's house the bulky package drugstore purchases scented
and dye.

Leaving there, I thought soon to consider seeking a decent guest house and not too expensive,
appropriate to the pension which he enjoyed, because in no way exceeding its expenses. In the
bedrooms of Bernarda never return, unless it was to pay the seven nights due, and tell this truth.
And rambling and laughing making calculations, it was time in which the stomach began to indicate
that no lives only illusions. Problem: Where eat? The idea of ??getting
into a good restaurant was soon discarded.

Present impossible made a type. Would you go, following the routine of their miserable times, the
tavern of Boto? O no! ... There had always been dyed. Sudden would miss seeing you in old age,
full of gray ... Finally, remembering that should the honest Boto a previous Piquillo comistrajos,
thought I should go there and match a timely payment to the trust the owner of the establishment,
giving the excuse of his serious illness, that very clearly in his face faded paint. His steps to
the street of Ave Maria, and went a little with embarrassment at the tavern, pretending to be sounded,
when crossing the outer part, to cover his face with his handkerchief. Strait and drowning
is that place for very church that he attends, attracted by the cheapness and good seasoning
of stews that there are released. At the tavern, properly said, not very large, is a narrow hallway,
which also has table with attached bench to the wall, and then stayed low and low roof which rises by two
steps, with two long tables on either side, with no space between them that the need for enter and
leave the boy who serves. In this part of the establishment is always put Ponte, believing
there more away from the prying curiosity and consumers, and occupied the gap-free table saw, if
indeed there was, as there were cases to be all complete, and the customers like sardines
in a crate.

That afternoon and night, slipped in the Interior Department Frasquito good luck, because there
was no more than three people inside, and one of the tables was empty. He sat in the corner
by the door, site very collected, which was not easy being seen from the public, ie from the tavern,
y. .. Another problem: what would it be? Ordinarily, the distressing state of their own money
forced him to be limited to actual stew with bread and wine represented a total expenditure of forty
cents, or serving as cod in sauce.

Either stuffing, with high bread, which used up the last crumb, comiéndoselo with broth and racioncita
of wine, offered adequate food and tasty. On certain days I used to change the stew by stew,
and on rare occasions, for the fricassee. Tripe, snails, meatballs and other junk, never tried
them.

Well, that night they asked the boy for a complete list of what he had, and appearing indecisive
as half-hearted person is not very inviting dish to whet your appetite, resolved by the fricassee.
"Did you hurt the teeth, Mr. de Ponte? - He asked the boy, seeing that he removed the handkerchief
from his face.

- Yes, son ... horrible pain. Do not bring bread high, but French. "

Frasquito front sat two who ate cooked in one large dish, serving two real and beyond in the
opposite corner, a man who slowly and methodically dispatched a portion
of snails.

It was truly such a machine to eat, because for each used a piece
invariably the same movements of the mouth, hands and even eyes.

He took the mollusk, which drew a stick, put it in his mouth, sucked after the Aguilla contained
in the shell, and in doing so ran a spiteful look at Frasquito Ponte, then left the empty shell
and grab a full one, to repeat the same function, always in time, with equal gestures and grimaces
to get the bug, and eat it, with equal looks: a sympathy for the snail at the time of catch,
another grudge against Frasquito at the time of sucking.

He spent time, and that man, his face and figure jimioso mean, still accumulate empty shells in
a pile that grew waned as that of the full, and Ponte, you had before, was beginning to worry
that the looks furious as mechanical figurine music box caught him at every turn to handle the high
shells.

XXXV

Ponte Delgado felt desire to live the kind that ask for explanations
for his look irrelevant.

The cause of this could not be other than the novelty Frasquito offered
to the public and paint stripping of his face, and the good gentleman
said: "But does it matter to anyone that I arrange or fails to fix?

I make my face as I please, and I am not obliged to give like the gentlemen, always presenting the
same face. With the old, as with the young, I know I respect and leave me well since my decorum. And
oppose the proposed cargantísimo look that point a look of contempt, when the snails, drained,
ate and sucked the last, and put the shell in place, paid the expenses, was placed in shoulders
the cloak, which fell from him, then put on the gorrilla, and rising went straight the faded
gentleman, and very good so he said: "Mr. Ponte, forgive me ask you a question. "

By the cordial tone of the individual, he realized it was an unhappy Frasquito, expressing these
way of looking at the complete opposite of what they are.

"You say ...

- Excuse me, Mr. de Ponte ... I wanted to know if you
do not take it amiss, if it is true Antonio Zapata and her sister
have had a legacy of tantismos million.

- Men, as well as of millions,
I do not think ... I'll tell you: my part in the estate, as also enjoys
Francisca Juarez, no more than a pension, which shall not know still
a fixed point.

But I can give you exact information shortly. Do you happen Are you a journalist?

- No, sir: I am a painter of arms.

- Ah!

I thought it was you who find these things to put in the newspapers.

- What I get is ads. For as the heraldic art is so on the floor, I dedicate the brokerage claims
and notices ... Antonio and I work in competition, and we become a terrible war. So, knowing
that Zapata is rich, I want you to influence him I transferred to business. I am a widower
and I have six children.

"

In saying this, putting in his tone so much sincerity and honesty well nailed in the face your partner
look like the murderer in time to take the blow to his victim. Before you answer Ponte went
on to say: "I know that you are friends family, and speaking with Mrs. Obdulia ... And by the
way: Doña Obdulia, or his mother, now they are rich, they want to
take title.

I that they take him away, for, as are the Grandee of Spain. Well, do not you forget me, Mr. de
Ponte ... Here's my card. I would compose the shield and the pedigree, and enforceable in ancient
letter, with initials in glitter, and lower prices than it would the painter painted. Can you
judge me models work I have at home.

- I can not assure you - giving much importance Frasquito said with a toothpick between the teeth
- take out a title or not to remove title. Spare them for this noble on all four sides, as well as
the Juarez, such as shoes, and the Delgados and Pontes, are lineage of most of Andalusia.

- The bridge Pontes have a vert on gules, and azure and gold quarters ...

- Truth ... For my part I will not take title, nor my heritage is so much for ... These ladies
I do not know ... Obdulia worth Duchess, and it is by the figure
and tone, but not decide wear the crown.

Of rightful Empress, as there is no God. Anyway, I do not get ...
Y aside heraldry, go to another thing.

"

In this, the snails had been sitting next to Frasquito, and its loss was watching the terror
of the patrons around them.

"Since you are engaged in the brokerage ads, could you tell me a good
house guests?

...

- Just today I made two ... Here I have in my portfolio for Fair and Liberal. Learn you ... Are
good: "lovely rooms, food to the French five-course ... thirty real
'.

- I should be cheaper ... fourteen or sixteen real.

- Also do
... Tomorrow I will give you a list of six at least, all confidence.

"

Cut off the dialogue the sudden appearance of Antonio Zapata, which came smothered, putting
noise, joking loudly with the property owner and several patrons. Uploader the inner room,
and pulling on the table wearing the voluminous book, and throwing hat back, sat next to Frasquito
and snails.

"Go one evening, gentlemen, what a week! - Said fatigued, and the boy who served he said -: do not
take anything.

I've already eaten ... My dear mother has gotten us into a chicken body my wife and me ...
Champagne and pulls up ... and bartolillos strip.

- Chico, who will now cough !...-- said the of shells, a kind word, looking terrifying -. And
it must soon give me a reason: I give in or I will not give in your business?

- Good got my wife when I proposed to work no more! I thought he bit me and drew me eyes. Nothing,
that will continue the same, it in your machine, I have in my ads, because that legacy will
not know how pathetic ... Ponte friend, do you know that farm of
Almoraima?

How much income will we?

- I can not say - said Frasquito -. I know it's a great possession, mountain pasture planting
land, mais ainda, the best place in Andalucia for quail, when they
to pass the Straits.

- There we go a season ... But my wife or God
pa I want to leave this job pathos.

Aguantate for now, Polidura, with my Juliana is not played: I have
more fear that a hungry lion ... And tell me, what have you done today?

... Ah! I do not remember, my mother wants to buy a spider ...

- A spider!

- Yeah, man, or for the dining room chandelier. He told me if you know of any good and showy, casting
...

- Yes, yes - said Polidura -.

In the auction of the street we have Campomanes.

- Other ... He
also wants to know if provided carpets and velvet carpet to good use.

-
That in the auction of the Plaza de Celenque.

I have it: 'All the furniture of a house. Hours, one to three. Pawnbroker is not allowed. "

-
My sister, who, incidentally, was gobbled half chicken tonight, what
you want is a Landau five lights ...

- Atiza!

- I have advised Obdulia
- Frasquito said with gravity - which do not have garages, which understand
with a tenant.

- Sure ... But do not give both the farmhouse pa pathetic.

Landau five lights! And pull he Burras Jacinto breast milk. "

Polidura burst out laughing, but noting that it tasted bad Algeciras those jokes, wanted vary
conversation instantly. The shameless Antonio Zapata Ponte was allowed to say: "Frankly, D. Bottle:
I believe you are the best.

- How?

- No bitumen. Nice figure and respectable old gentleman. Convince yourself that the dye does
not get you to look young, what appears is ... a coffin.

- Dear Antonio - Ponte replied by Repulgue with mouth and nose to hide his anger, and indicated that
was the joke - we like to scare old boys to ... to leave us in peace.

The boys of the day, wanting to know everything, know nothing ...».

The poor man, embarrassed, not knowing what to say.

Zapata emboldened their nonsense, which continued mortification:

"And now we are in funds, friend Ponte, the first thing you have to
do is retire the sarcophagus.

- What?

- The hat that you have for
the holidays, and that fashion is being spent when irrigation hanged.

-
What do you mean fashion