 The saying
says: For my money, Dad I love him.

In countries with a backward culture, we see a phenomenon which, as we get civilized and a little
more polishing, wanes, and that does not disappear completely. Is this phenomenon disgrace,
discredited, the strong suspicion, and even the horror that surrounds him that is poor, which
is hated, when it is neglected. The old Spanish proverb states that the money is the whole man:
that is, that money is guaranteed straight, probity and integrity in whom you have. Further away
is yet another proverb: Poverty is not shame, but bouquet of spice.

Our immortal Cervantes, echoing the general sentiment, he says, not once, it is difficult for
a poor to be honest.

Well you can bet that no one would think, in our century, San Jose excuse have been a carpenter,
and assume that tickets had three or mortgage.

Neither by the blood nobility apologized poverty before having money has been in all Source
century nobility. Monies are quality, the din is better than the gift, are sayings corroborate
my assertion.

The deep reverence that inspire the money and who has always been identical. The has declined
somewhat is the horror or contempt for the poor, and some pitfalls that must be rich in old,
perpetually surrounded. Prudent and discreet man was, not many years ago, everywhere, and the day
has even, on many, to do if you can, a great mystery of the state of their finances, especially
if it is or was very rich or very Poor: If you are very poor, so you will not despise, and
if it is very rich, so you will not steal or kill him. Here in this awful dilemma of being dismissed
or threatened with death born that sentence of moralists, that civilized countries today seems
so stupid and so absurd that I had that desire was a mediocrity of fortune, to live happily and
quiet, not envious or envied. Because, in truth, if money is a good while greater good, should
be more palatable, and not conceived the golden mediocritas held by Horace and other poets of
all times, but remembering that the wealthy man was continuously exposed to kill or mistreat him
to steal, and the emperor or Prince under whose rule he lived, and greedy mob. And when wealth
was not annexed a high degree of power was a constant danger, and almost impossible to conjure. I
do not think I hate that deep that we had in the Middle Ages the Jews were just coming deicide
people, but they were rich. The frequent killings of Jews that occurred in Spain perhaps they
had not come to fruition, if the Jews had been careful to stay poor. Something similar can be
said of the monks in recent days, after they lost retained the power
and wealth, while the scandal has been lower because the sweetness
of customs, the greater abundance of money and wellness, and more
concerted and political way of life of men, have diminished the hatred
of those who do not have that have.

Proof of this confidence about them is that now, in civilized countries, nobody or almost nobody treasures.
A few years ago, all that were treasured. Popular literature is full
of stories and legends of hidden treasures, guarded by a dragon, a
giant or a monster terrible, nothing less was needed so as not to
steal