 Are the old illustrations of France, in letters, arts, industry, in science and politics. Also
boisterous old men, years I can not to forget that they are French. The rule and the bell
of the president are in continuous movement. The viewer's desire to exclaim: "Fi donc, Messieurs,
a votre âge!" Nobody listens to the speaker until the agenda calls for discussion of the press
law in review of the Chamber of Deputies. For an article imposes on public officials to accusation
of libel. Julio Simon heads to the podium, very distinguished figure of old man intelligent
face, weak voice and a prodigious parliamentary skill. Protest against the spirit Article, in
its opinion, the officials have the right to be slandered, and the only action, the only defense
they should go, is their conduct above reproach, no shadows. In issues press wants the freedom
to license. He heard with attention and respect; But Republicans in the state believe that
the purpose of the adversary of Gambetta's destroy the goodness of the law, taking the awards
to the limits and making odious to the conservatives. Simon is in full triumph a few days
ago, during of the education law has failed to introduce by assault the name of God in the queue
an item. For now, develops a logic of iron, and boldly occupying the ground of his opponents,
makes more vigorously waving their own flag. Applauds and vote right with him. A man of austere
countenance, gray, strong voice, going on the rostrum to the eminent philosopher. It Pellet, rigorous
container empire, Simon's partner in the Body Legislature, the author of those pamphlets candescentes
of the profession of faith of the nineteenth century The Crowd, etc. No talking, pontificating,
not argue, declaims. Stirred as on a tripod and his words resound crawl or prophetic accents.
Destroyed, however, sophistry Simon, and without insulting his intention, does see the chaos
that would ensue to the press without any sort of moderator. The vote gives the victory.

Then drag the session, and I take my hat levántome to move to the Palais Bourbon. In the Senate
meeting always empty the diplomatic, in the House I have to get early
to get a good seat.

It is here, Gambetta alone is a spectacle, and all foreigners of distinction who come to Paris,
get cards of his ministers respective installed in the diplomatic and become unbearable for
your questions English, German, Turkish, Italian or Greek, about who is speaking, if you talk
Gambetta, Paul de Cassagnac what, what Clemenceau, where's Ferry, why they laugh, what is the
right etc., etc.

I was in Paris on July 14 and witnessed a national holiday. The military review at Longchamps was small:
at most 15,000 men.
