 How could she ignore me with
some examples to look at, how much was left to do in rural villages men of light and goodwill?

-
The great work - went on - the house of Tablanca, since time immemorial,
has been the unification of views and wishes of all for the common
good.

The house and the people have become a one body, healthy, robust and vigorous, whose head is the master
of it. All are for him, and he is for everyone, as natural and necessary thing. Dispense with
the house, is equivalent to decapitate the body, and so is not taken for favors continuing the
many services provided between one and the others, but functional acts throughout the body. I I
think it is very admired this uniqueness that should have already jumped into the eyes of you and
surely there will be seen only in some old-fashioned potboiler, but as paint infidel imagination,
conventional and sappy. With this great work of defense against surges criminals who come here at
certain times from the political centers absorbing and administration of the State, if you
see what sound they have in the hollows of this hamlet hidden songs of the sirens there, the
pompous rants of charlatans and political traffickers, those tricksters Dulcamara, praising specific
have made themselves, taking the health of the people disguise their personal greed! If you
could see how these songs and shouting disuenan between these customs are agreed almost patriarchal!
So here are unknown pests, relatively modern, the country town, nor have ever entered the marauding
politicians to exploit the ignorance and good faith of these poor men ... But unfortunate for them
the day they lack cohesive strength, noble and noble, which gives them the house of the Ruiz de
Bejos! ... All this, as it can be assumed, given enough to do to each wheel make intelligent
few the machine whose cornerstone is here today well-earned reputation of Don Celso. Well, working
this way the machine wherever it exists, and where not, work to build it, is something much
to do in rural villages educated men of good will. And believe me there is no shortage in
the Mountains (because not all its inhabitants are as healthy as those of Tablanca wood) to the
heroic martyrs of this work. Perhaps you opportunity to learn about any of them.

The truth was that if the sympathetic mediquillo was right not as stated, should to become pregnant,
and cause a blush to the temptations contradict assertions in so honest and so beautiful,
tell me of course, if not convinced, put on track convince me soon.

We talked a little too much, but not take matters as seriously as before, and ending where it
should have started, I found out that the doctor was called Manuel, who called him "Neluco"
since I can remember, just as there than in his native town, that was not in it, his father
died a few years ago, more a family than a sister, married to an
owner nearby, that if it was not his own doctor instead, was that
upon receiving the degree in Madrid, was vacant square Tablanca holder,
which sought and gave him not being easy to find another more to his
liking to it, unless of Robacio, that was then and continued to be
occupied, and, finally, that was twenty-nine and had begun at twenty
to practice in Tablanca, where he was and in their own place, and
so attached to "his patients" as the shepherd his flock.

I saw that I had an hour before the usual lunch at my uncle's house, and I take to pay a visit to
Don Pedro Nolasco. Díjeselo the doctor as the reason for my dismissal, and was very willing
to come with me if I accepted the inconvenience of waiting a few moments. I accepted, not
annoying, but for me it was, came he jumped into the cabinet, and within five minutes it appeared
in the shoe room and not badly dressed, or rather, dressing finishing with a graceful ease. He
took a hat that was on a chair a corner of the club immediately, and I said as I shook his
trouser legs After straightening:

- When you like.

He offered his house right away, though leasing as the old woman who served as patron very expensive
on the recommendation of his sister who had the lads in Robacio; agradecíle supply as was my duty
in good courtesy, and we went out without the compliments current between Spanish fine, and
often annoying in the narrow alleyways of the former.

X

Upon returning to see the house of TARUMBA, I remembered the "things" of this and spoke of them
to the doctor.

- I do not know - I said - if it's a happy or an unhappy man, running
his life, as the passes, renouncement by foreign business and abandoning
their own.

Of course it is his hobby the most original I've ever known.

Not always the extreme to the point that you have seen today, but
it lacks little.

Bring calzones and preach the neighbor to sew it breaks of their own before going over, it's
every day. Have the crippled woman, and often left helpless to attend to a sick stranger ... and
indeed it an admirable nurse. Recently a hurry walks the crash said he saw in the front morio
headman's house and has his own six months ago opened anchovy jastial in the West. For these
things TARUMBA when his wife was healthy pounded almost daily, and today you can not do the same
thing, every moment tells the greatest insults, which he suffers with the same resignation
that sometimes blows because, among all a blessed, so you never know whether to sympathize or
laugh at their foibles.

Turning next to the house of the priest, the church immediately, I called from below to greet because
as we had seen and spoken several times, I had plenty to tell him frankly I was more compelled
by the laws of courtesy to the visit of Don Pedro Nolasco that yours,
do not have time to leave that morning paid the two, but instead of
Cura responded to my cries her mistress, a very old cardboard and
wrapped as it appeared a window for the kitchen, play and shawls.

He told me that was Don Sabas left home after breakfast as he had said Mass, and probably would
in the house. Let memories for him, which were received by the intermediary with a 'guard' for me
the most passionate and colorful you can imagine, and continued the doctor and I walk toward
the house of Don Pedro Nolasco, but talking a lot of Don Sabas Pena, "a wheel of the familiar
major machinery "in the words of Neluco Celis.

He too had noticed the difference between Don Sabas in the high mountains and Don Sabas Valley
and the kitchen of Don Celso, but even so, the man below was a lot more than I thought, for not yet
had occasion to know you better. Ever to find no him the apostle of great eloquence and much
knowledge, but a man of good sense and great virtues, consisting most of them ignore the fact
that he possessed.

Given the limited which is the circle of ideas among people rustic, and that everything is planted
outside seed he is lost, a parish priest as Don Sabas was all he could and should be appealing
to a parish like Tablanca.

Talking about these things, I did not have time to ask some news Neluco octogenarian Marmitón, before
reaching the doorway, where the keystone, and chipped and removed by the action of the weather
and the ivy and jaramagos that for all his joints invade, reminded me a little upper jaw of
the owner when I dreamed that I had seen him devour trunks and craggy.

From the style of the portal I thought what we saw of the house from the barnyard: very old and very
hard hit by the severity of storms and the carelessness of their owners. He also had a corresponding
utility that ran from corner to corner between two mensulones masonry, and below it enter the porch,
where a big dog woke pinto on a pile of leaves, showed me all his teeth and held a bark, and perhaps
something more respect for my companion, who would find it more known than me.

Neluco shook two spiked truncheons on the door of the astragalus, and without waiting for will
get back up, entered it and began to climb the ladder. A door that it ended, new physician truncheons.
Then he lifted the latch, and we sneaked inside: a cruise of passageways for the art of the
house of my uncle Celso.

There doctor gave two strokes on the floor with the tip of the club, and appeared simultaneously
As mentioned by a spell in a door on the right, the huge figure of Don Pedro Nolasco, and
another left, a young, somewhat disheveled clothes and hair, but clean as gold, fresh and
rosy as a rosette of April ...

- Oh, that is Neluco! - Said with a tone of voice that seemed to shout a psaltery, and the face
of angel of Rubens, flooded with joy -. Take! - Coming soon added to tantico us and looking at
a blushing, as if trying to amend its rude to me -.

And it comes with another man very cabayeru! Well, I'll Tochon! ... Well, if it's nephew Don
Celso! ... Vile me in church on Sunday! Daughter, what stupid of me! ... And how is Nah, you? Look,
Don Marcelo, has to forgive me if I jaya of this art, because I've been amassing in kitchen with
my mother and pa the day the girls tonight, and now was to wear a mismu little Christian ...

Such
was the vehemence of his friendliness, which did not offer the slightest gap to sneak with a response
to your greeting or a polite welcome to their excuses. But what was comely and how pretty, with
its tangle of brown hair shadowing the young face, smooth and rosy, talking on their blue eyes,
long eyelashes, as well as for its mouth red lips about whiter teeth
and tight that I've seen in my life, while struggling to cover with
the previously gathered sleeves of her dress, and under the fringe
and leftovers thick shawl that wrapped the graceful bust, her plump
arms, still dotted Mild crusts, like little girls and chubby hands,
the mass of "wheat bread" they had just "rub"!

Suddenly the door rang border, walled about with the bulk of Don Pedro Nolasco, something like the sound
of a gun, telling me:

- Forward, cabayeritos!

And obey Pedro called us, beautiful baking apartámonos of pushing us with eyes toward him as
he said goodbye to us "goodbye" but in such a way that with it and
with more notice than I had thought before, and a bit of malice that
never fails in the thoughts of men in certain cases, like that, I
could not but exclaim to myself,

- If the glasses are these Neluco
looking so beautiful these places that seem?

At close Don Pedro Nolasco and in the light of day, it seemed much
bigger and uglier in the kitchen of my uncle, in the light of the
fire and the lamp: better than a rational, the skin of his face, his
rough and grayish in color, looked like giant elephant; raves eyes,
were embodied green foliage, the huge head, just you could be among
the Herculean shoulders, whole and entire, with the dress greasy enveloped
him, brutally highlighted on-white living room walls that were received;
games old, albeit with chestnut floor joists almost black, like furniture
containing, but clean everything and kneaded to shine, with a few
trinkets on the dresser and walls, who denounced the neatness and
delicacy of a woman he had just leave of us at the intersection of
the passageways.

Which I knew at once that it was granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco and named Lita (Margarita).
His mother, the youngest daughter of she had the giant, the widow of a rich Jándalos, who died
at two years of marriage. This was told me at gunpoint and little by little the Castañalera ochentón,
that being so big and so ugly, was not unpleasant: in my view, the bottom Noblot and honored to
be discovered through the pores of the bark wild.

At the end of these bursts of booming voice of Don Pedro Nolasco, his daughter came on the scene,
the widow the Jandal, a woman of forty years, still healthy and buxom, more bulky than Lita,
but very similar to it in the color and cut of the face, and, above all, the friendliness expansive.
Gave me a thousand excuses for not coming soon to know me and health, based the same reasons
your daughter, and ignoring the compliments with which I responded, fell on me all the guest
section, so used to being in that town: I liked it the earth, that what had taken so long to meet
her and take good law because there was great need for me there was my uncle dying, that Paris
would be better France of course, but that she (the widow) would not change for anything Tablanca
this world but never had happened down in San Vicente, and upwards of Reinosa, if I had seen
pictures in the house, I was more like my father than my mother that walked by where my sister
and what he knew about it ... until these and other such, I heard treading petite and strong in the
immediate Carrejo, and appeared in the living room, full of freshness and rejoicing, Lita newly
groomed, without the prior shawl and a jacket in place, which but did not fit the body perfectly
clear put the elegance and richness of her curves.

With a finger or two taller, I thought there would be the least blemish to put, as a stamp witch,
the granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco. But where he got that little devil, who had not known
the world over the content on the banks of the middle of Nansa, ie a rendijilla a few miles between
two mountain slopes, those subtleties of touch and clothing, and those tricks and blandishments
that both separated from the common type of monsoon valley, which, surely, had run so much like
her world?

He sat between his mother and Neluco and almost in front of me. I did not take his eyes off,
and I can swear I recorded with theirs, talkative and tellers, from head to toe, while questions
haunted me for the kind that had not stopped me the Jandala widow. I was happy to hear and
watch. Rarely have I seen a woman any more full concert and more diverting between word and gesture,
between idea and expressive movement. Until toes, shoes, warm slippers into small and barely
reached the ground, sang his way into music that seemed a gurgle. On two occasions they had
attempted Mother and daughter going to visit, but as I never stop at home ... For this visit,
the thought them very start reason without asking what good breeding, were relatives; Well he érarnos!
By Ruiz de Bejos a little, and the Castañaleras, over the same. In demonstration of this was
taking junctions the widow, and when I began to learn, for their work, relationship, got into
it new threads Pedro Nolasco, and the whole skein I made a mess, but I kept it very well so state:
on the contrary, I for sure, and even complimented me on it.

- Like what results cousins ??- concluded the widow - though a bit
distant, but not if good looks, we could marry the two without dispensation
...

And laughed with all her heart.

- Daughter of God - the little
boy exclaimed with a spurt of skirts to the knee, while smiling mouth
had to hand the other half closed -.

And I was tuteále to peak, when now, for the account, I get man!

This might not be strictly "correct" but to me it was very entertaining. Then, the child back to
repeat what had already told me, and mother, and the Priest and Don Pedro Nolasco and how many
people had done in Tablanca conversation with me: that "aqueyu" Madrid was not, that I would
come over the mountains, and accustomed to dealing with big shots worldly and perhaps with Marquis
and princes, the villagers had to seem Tablanca "jabatus" but that if he looked good on both sides
either ... Oh, and how glad they and all bystanders and residents of the valley from end to
end, and even the stars of heaven, that I see things as they could and should be seen! Because the
poor Don Celso was already for little, and running out ... Anyway, the usual ... Sneaks here Pedro
Nolasco with a hymn "royalties" to Mother Nature, and a comparative trial of the peace village
and the labyrinths of the city. Because I had to know that he too had run the world in their
youth ... He then called a relative Madrid had there, and as looked sturdy and strong, went
to the call.

Cogiéronle troubled times in court and endangered by the agonies of the 'French', and having
been on placement Valencia his uncle seemed very advantage, entreated
willingly.

She was outside of the city, and a wool wash Botifora lords and Company,
the same praying on the side that had told me the mocking memory of
his relative Celso.

If Madrid had not been "jallau, by the dryness and the anchor of territoriu" in Valencia "jalle"
less, with a sun that "ajogaba" in summer and talk about people who did not seem Christian.
I dreamed day and night with the prairies and mountains of his homeland,
and before you get sick of "Cordial" kill him, he turned to her other
than in passing, completed two years of having no left by temptations
of the evil enemy.

Tablanca found himself in as king in his palaces, and had saved well from then until now, "to get a
leg 'was half Jerne of its municipal ... Eighty-four had at the time, not knowing what a bad
stomach ache. He had had two wives, ten children and twenty grandchildren. Much of years ago they
walked to the other world, rolled down it, and not far, the largest the living, and I had seen all
that was left in Tablanca: little, but hey, that yes, for pleasure of his age. Had to eat at home,
and health and good appetite to eat. In line justice, what else should I wish to God, if not the
mercy of a good death?

With that and little more over the visit, during which no lips Neluco deployed, or look Lita with
the intention that I expected, and Lita looked to him more than when I ran the words with
a simplicity that was more than brotherly than anything else. Recomendáronme much the three
of house that I forget the way of it, and even invited me to eat, "one day to my liking ', together
with Neluco, that it weighed on me alone "penance."

All this seemed good and very much in place, but why would a aldeanuca as the granddaughter of
Marmitón had those air and these antics of Miss City? Why tuteaba with Neluco and had an intimacy
between the two so suspicious?

I dared to speak of both individuals to mediquillo just got out of the mansion of Don Pedro Nolasco.
Certainly I could have sworn that in the handshake and the look with which Lita fired a Neluco
in the shadows of the passage, in which the doctor was the last of all, there was a lot of spicy
my suspicions.

On the first point, I Neluco said that Lita was born and raised in Tablanca, had no more schools
than the master of the place and her own mother, or had run more land that within three or four
miles around. Eight days with relatives from here they be held during the pilgrimage of the
people for a fortnight with Robacio by a similar cause, and very little else for this art.
The rest was the work of instinct and strength of vision that women are so insightful and so
beautiful as Lita, drilling mountains with eyes, see the invisible
to the other side, and know where you keep your job want to live,
and isolated and that the place is dark.

The other was still easier to explain. Tablanca and Robacio were two people who are "trying" much,
and families Neluco Lita and very friendly since time immemorial, had even some relationship
between them.

Lita had happened, girl and girl, good seasons Celis' house, and Neluco, while living in Robacio,
every moment was reached Tablanca and almost always ate and stayed at Don Pedro Nolasco. Explained,
in effect, In this way, very simply, the familiarity and familiarity
between the doctor and the granddaughter of Marmitón, but far from
being opposed, are not helping this what else I suspected?

Pointed out, as in jest, some inquiries in this regard. As if it had been with the knuckles a
rock of Mt. So I wondered if Neluco had heard of them. The truth is that if my suspicions were
unfounded, they must be.

XI

When least expected, the priest told me to leave me in the astragalus of the house, now close to
mealtime:

- Tomorrow, God willing, and riding them. I'd be better off on foot, and floors, and will Chisco
to accompany and care for the animals at times to be submitted, but you another oak wood is
weaker, and you have to have it all today. Before daybreak course.

Entendíle and answered, making a brave:

- A horse, and before daybreak.

- Well, Chisco become aware of this and suficit.

With this and left me laugh, and threw down Canberra demanding his pot.

With the dreams that I picked up after the fatigues that I was in
the mountains of the contour, we Chisco cost God and helps wake up
... Nay day! it is thickest and darkest the next night.

Tona, after I get dressed and shivering without full awareness what he did, I poured a coffee
Canjilón espabilar finished, and when I got to the portal, glimpsed,
in the dim light of a lantern that had Chisco in hand, the black silhouette
of Don Sabas, riding on his pony Rucia, that I was unknown, and the
nag espelurciado I almost got the footman between the legs to shorten
the operation to mount it.

We broke the three walking along the same path that had brought me the night of my arrival to Tablanca,
as dark as ever, even better company and less backache.

Out of respect for me, for my two companions as they did the day
of darkness for safe walking on foot for those unevenness, retained
Chisco that preceded us, the lantern On the hand, but I could have
sworn that more than the footman lantern light, I sparks lit flints
pulled from the soil the shoes of dapple Don Sabas, which Don Sabas
did the impossible for entertaining and even fun for the passage of
this black, rough and endless path, but alas! without accomplishing
its noble and generous endeavor.

Because those "lowlands" and wrapped in darkness so thick, Don Sabas
was still The Cure dull in the kitchen of my uncle and all his observations
on romance and all the Psalms Latin, we were out of time and out of
every opportunity.

Come on you go, slipping here and there and sighed pushing my horse, after a hours began to
draw profiles of the hills on the dimly lit sky by the dim light of dusk. In the gorge through
which we walked was still night for us, and, strictly speaking, we did not dawn until we crown
the rocky ledge and arrived at the shrine of the Virgin that I was well known. The priest, who seemed
to have that status of forest birds, as they stood and watched the light come over barriers
dark the horizon, became more talkative and began to drop slowly the hidden harmonies of their songs,
not many, but pleasant, and above all, to the case

.