 When we said goodbye in the hallway The
question that was due that and was evasive. In this came out of his room Tirso and, as one is
aware of what you hear try, I said :--«¿ to insist? Can not you see that not read indecency?
"

- What you say?

- For your brother and your home!

Shut up and leave, but, I confess, I wanted to put him a volume by
the snout.

The least has figured the man who took the girl books wrong gender!

- What an ass!

- Not the best. It was the first time Leo and I parted well, slightly less than bothered, and
I could not wait to return on Monday. Do you remember that afternoon was the pretext test and
was talking to her?

- Go on: what did he say?

- Man, there are things that can not be explained point by point.

You understand the difference you there to be a loving woman, who
exudes the satisfaction of being loved, to be cold, aloof, and who
does not care less about the man next to him.

- As one of two things:
either you're wrong, and there is nothing that suspicion, or is Tirso
guilt, and in this case, no doubt in my house is going to be more
civil war in the North.

- Much I fear, and about what we were talking,
I think Leo is no longer for me.

- Come with care.

Do you have any trouble, some wheeling and dealing that she has known
for angry?

- No: word of honor.

- Well, since I put the record straight.

-
I warn you one thing.

I did not think the matter further formalize ... for lack of rooms; but since things have
been filmed, stating that your father and you can consider me, if you like, and the house,
you know? - and tended to Pepe's hand, he warmly shook .-- Since you know, as is customary titles: I
beg the hand ...

- I promise we will leave doubts.

- What are you doing?

- Soon I
will be able, or clearing the situation.

In the first conversation you have with Tirso I remove the mask. We'll see who has the upper
hand!

Next step quickened, spreading to reach street near the keypad, where fired, leaving some hopeful
Millán offered intervention. Pepe entered its house on tiptoe, slowly opened, not to awaken
the sleepers, lit the candle Leocadia left to prevent a wing of the hall, he entered his room
and lay down, thinking about events and ideas that interested him, on suspicion that he felt for
his brother in the affection that had his parents and feared complications. Then, serenely mind,
he remembered the worsening peace and imagined note in his love. What would be the cause?
Why the girl raised in the present, far from convinced that this was crazy gave his promises more
strength and greater expression of sympathy from his eyes?

XVI

Tirso seeing the mother tended to his exhortations, not only insisted on them, but tried to
conquer the minds of Leocadia, sharpen it necessary to be so cunning, as the difference in character
between Dona Manuela and her daughter asked for different tactics. The first ceded by kindness and gentleness:
it was habit bend to the will of others. As a young man due to her husband erected after chief
Pepe family by force of circumstances, got used to looking at him as such, and was home giblets
those of her daughter, showing all be born to obey. Leocadia conditions were different: he
had headstrong genius, but without lacking respect, responding to their parents with integrity; in
their whims poor girl, had always a certain obstinacy, if he persisted in reform a suit, did not stop
to turn the pieces of fabric, to achieve what he wanted; liking styling, could not find peace
until her hands got to learn how to make him, and even in these small details, the tenacity
of its resolutions, betrayed a very firm deploying energy difficult to master. Tirso also noted
that, in spite of its humble situation, the girl was rather vain and was paid him, charging
different Still, the eagerness to please, and as a latent desire, but self-indulgent, to imitate
clothing and customs of girls more favored by fortune. Never consented to, for example, to make
his brother blouses to work in print, and was constantly at the next corner store with tissue in
the head, Pepe wanted to see the best dress possible, and in their costumes own, still struggling
with lack of money for frills and frippery, always tried to imitate elegant cuts. By not having
them gold, had no outstanding ears and fingers without rings. It was not demanding too expensive
to ask what the efforts of their parents, but only accepted poverty as an accident of his life,
not as a condition of their origin. Willingly admitted Miller's love, while this year with Pepe's
career, but seeing her boyfriend had to leave the books and engage in a trade, was for her
very great disappointment. To continue his brother in college, perhaps soon had sought to break
relations with the printer, but seeing Pepe forced to do the same soon after, realized Leocadia
why could not reject Millán, and continued to accept his love, without correspondence that actually
paid it deserved the name of love. Perhaps for lack of background, no Tirso was in a position to appreciate
all this, but enough to convince reached that neither Leocadia was truly in love, and cast off
by the shameless Miller greed language called a proportion, which allowed him to imagine that
if the mother ceded by docility, vanity and self-esteem would be good ways to subdue daughter. I would
rather he take pity in their hearts with the vehemence of zeal inflamed him, but he realized that
he was forced to follow the maximum bend to the nature and character of every sinner, to become
more likely. Finally, many days talking to Dona Manuela, determined to probe to Leocadia, and
finding it an evening reading in the dining room, while Don José rested and mother was out,
approached, bringing him another book in hand.

- Know God - the said between severe and smiling - what tome that will be! Is it that brings you
the groom?

- Yes.

- Lovely role for a young man attempting readings harmful to the woman he wants, and good way
to love ... if you love!

- Why do you say that?

- Calm down, child, calm down, no I mean, God forbid! that young do
not wish, what strikes me is that you love him.

- I think what I
want!

- It seems in bad kind, but what happens to your brother must
be plagadito of ideas now, and of those who do not believe in the
light of day.

Ready, it will be, too bad office has so ugly!

- The of his father ... He began studying to be a lawyer, but then
the same thing happened to Pepe.

The word office rang in the ears of Tirso Leocadia as planned.

- You will always be stuck between ordinary people, workers and laborers, then they tune your ...
but bad work is.

- But can you imagine that Millan is a porter or serene? - "She said,
laughing forcedly .-- I wrong: it's a decent guy, like Pepe, who has
to live well, working as Pepe.

- No, daughter, and Pepe, no, our
brother is the son of a public official, the father of that young,
if I heard correctly, was a compositor, a laborer.

- Printer.

-
Call it what you want.

Being old, was the owner of the printing press, but its origin can
not be more humble.

That does not mean it is bad person, but, finally, why do you dislike we covet for you the best?

Leocadia
looked at his brother, surprised that and worry about their future.

- What I tell you - continued the priest - is that, so young, and
collecting terms Women are key to healthy prosperity, should not a
formal commitment lower man to you, because I do not deny it.

Position has perhaps better off than ours, but one thing is the welfare, and another area
of ??each. Today, we have money, but not our parents or our grandparents were artisans. Believe
me, Leocadia do not commit yourself to anyone, and not give up your freedom of action. No you're
born to women a laborer.

- Dale with journeyman! is an industry, we, a printer, but not a laborer.

- Bah! my dear: let us call things by their names.

Worker is only worker and if you marry him, God knows you have to go some day to take the food
basket as a bricklayer.

- So, according to you, I expect you to come and ask for my hand a degree of Castile.

- Not at all: it seems that even a good guy, is not justified to give
up on it's what you reserve for the future.

Nobody knows what the future for a girl.

Tired Leocadia knew that after that problematic hope of future greatness, which Tirso real impetus
was the antipathy felt against Millan, since he met in politics and lack of religion coincided with
Pepe, but as these same arguments He claimed to be the ever own, succeed in putting pressure
on the heart. It seemed undeniable Millán goodness, but Tirso was partly right. The touch with
the people in the press had given his harsh frankness tinge, sometimes bordering on rudeness, his
feelings served honored coarse language interpreter, to see something neat and composed, it
was necessary wait till Sunday: have not walked Tirso misguided and, in time, she had to bring
in the food basket, resigned to be a craftswoman, ie the opposite
type that of the girls, whose manners and clothes tried to imitate.

At different times her sister did Tirso similar reasoning, and as the ground was well prepared, the
seed began to germinate. It started the turn, the first thing he was to prevent often Millán
visits during the week, based on borrowing books: then came the scene narrated by the lover
scorned Pepe, which intervened Tirso and finally, the girl so strongly stressed his indifference,
the bridegroom almost stopped deserve this name. To be the love of deep-rooted passion Millán, had
been striving to regain what they lost, but he also beat a fund and exaggerated self-esteem,
that was of greater account of the pride that the baby .-- "Do not
talk about this to your sister - had told his friend - because the
will is not imposed or received anything for charity.

"

That was a very bad impression Pepe, but even more displeased to see the intervention demonstrated
the cure. The thing was out of doubt: after trying to seize the spirit of the mother, began to explore
various means of a daughter for the same purpose. What would their ulterior motives? Reasons of
personal convenience, apparently none. The only plausible that work was driven not only by religious
proselytizing, and in this case, to commit company in the peace and happiness of the family,
their fanaticism would be great. How risk, in any other way, promoting a rift between parents
and children, venturing the tranquility of home and the poor health of Don Jose, for only the lack
of compliance by the pious duties? Pepe hated it so much, given his ideas that he could not
be attributed to his brother so great blindness, assuming that if only the zeal prompted him, had
moderate affects more mundane but no less pure. His understanding rejected the possibility that
there man to embarrass their parents to give luster to the religion. The nonchalance with which
Millán Leocadia and began to look lost with this significance in the eyes of Pepe: Her True
concern was the conduct of Tirso, and came to dislike so much that
I threw his beloved Peace to see immediately.

       

* * * * *

First, a romantic spirit, typical of free-educated girl, she becomes infatuated to Peace with the
love of Pepe: later, when he came to understand how much he was worth, that tilt insensibly deepened
and, at the beginning was game of the imagination, came to be, the more natural, simple, sincere
and well-rooted love. The clerk, as she imagined her friends would call him if they should know, he had
entered the soul, persuading that he wanted because his face began to fear that his father would
know that, despite Democratic Posturing I used to do in Parliament. But this was not what most
distress. Their concern stemmed from disgruntled continually see Pepe, and the conviction of
being in love came out of that relationship he established his mind between the pity she felt
and concern he showed. When peace was made aware that, even ignoring the cause, despite saddened
by her boyfriend, when, unable weighed, felt a pain of others as their own, then noticed that
his heart began to reign a will different from his, and the man, only with loyalty and good faith,
was taking over his will slowly but probably as large river channel deepens the underpinning.
Peace, apparently frivolous, like anyone who has not suffered, but very clever, was persuaded
early on that loved, because his thoughts, far from intimidated to the obstacles that could
love cause it was fixed exclusively on the pain of the man he wanted.

The first sample true passion was the sincerity with which he spoke.

One morning, being in the library of his father, who was where whenever
he saw one missing from there, "said Pepe, mild language and using
its free, then more open than ever:

- I have to tell you something
very serious.

- What?

- I made a discovery: you do not want me and
I love you more than me contained.

- I do not understand.

- Clarito,
son, that your love - will use this word, for greater solemnity, but
you know that I prefer to say love - well, your love is much warmer
than mine.

- Let's see how it is shown that great lie.

- In a very
simple way.

I always pass that you are bored with being rich and you me poor,
of course, that does not offend me, pass the mania of celite, which
makes no sense common choke pass without coming three to four days
in a row, so you want to wait more ...

- No, for fear that your father
guess what happens.

- Let me finish, what is not happening, is that
you have trouble, you're sorry and I streets.

So silly me, that no good to say not a word of comfort?

- What does this tenderness, my soul, with the discovery?

- Because
nothing can be more visible.

You, suffering and ocultándomelo, reveal a lack great confidence, which is lack of love, and I,
aquejerándome, as they say in Andalusia for your book, I show love a thousand times.

- But where did you get that I have trouble?

- That I was missing, add the pretense of a lack of confidence. Will
not you tell me what's wrong?

Pepe, who preferred to talk only about their love, or had proposed
internal streets of home, said denying, and ended by telling Peace:

-
If you think it is mere curiosity, it displays the lips, but stating:
stay free to find out.

- Find out what pleases you, but love me a
lot.

The entrance of Don Luis cut dialogue. Proposed peace knowing what to expect regarding the
origin of the sadness of Pepe, and when a woman in love with a similar
resolution, the secret can be overdraft.

Pepe's obstinacy in silence was useless: Peace has so hard to know
the troubles of her lover, as this step by step in the incomprehensible
handling of the priest.

XVII

When Pepe kept going to see peace, for fear or look tacky if suspected
Don Luis, came Pateta in mail functions: she knew that every third
day of absence the boy was about to darken around the hotel and, peering
right time, got arm through the gate and left the letter under the
raised brick kiln, located along the greenhouse.

One afternoon, Don Luis had to attend a political banquet, Peace, after seeing him from and
after going on various pretexts to the servants, fell into the garden at twilight, and waited
to Pateta. Quarter hour saw the boy coming stealthily approaching the gate, kicking a tin pot he found
nearby, so she hid after one of the pillars of masonry that were
in the corners of the greenhouse and, when boy went to put my hand
through the bars of the gate, came out of hiding, saying

- Hey, pathetic.

-
Beware you will not see this letter.

- Nobody.

Pateta, hat in hand, snuggling his face to the bars, like a monkey cage, paid attention.

The remoteness of the site and dreary afternoon, were to reign around the full hôtel loneliness.
In the air floated the last rays of sun set, and the arid countryside
appeared wrapped in a fearful clarity, while the opposite was extending
a broad dark band, which expands slowly across the sky.

The suit was a stain Peace clear cut by the bars of the gate: pathetic ogling Miss no guess what
he would say.

- Well, at this hour, this being so lonely - he suddenly - and Mr. Pepe could come here and
talk to you.

- Shut up and listen.

I want to talk now, it's you.

- Send you

- Can you do me a favor?

The truth, and without anyone knowing.

- Neither Mr. Pepe?

- Less
than anyone else.

The boy glanced could not be more expressive. Was realized that maybe peace wrong, but it was not going
back.

- I warn you that this is something we are very interested in him and me.

- No more to say.

But this submission was accompanied by the firm intention to tell
everything to Pepe.

- Let's see what happens?

What is the one with disgust? You know something?

- Nothing, not Jack.

- We need to find out.

I fear that you remove the destination you have in your library Senate, and would be prevented
to stop the coup.

Do you know whether that is the reason that For many days are so sad?

You really can not tell me anything?

Pateta fell into the net.

- Yo, that's destiny, I do not know ná:
ask.

Otherwise, you may not know what had happen. In the press everything is as usual ... As it is
not the cure ...

- How about printing?

Printing What is this?

- Takes! What could it be?

Ours, that is, Mr. Miller.

- So the Master is also working on printing?

- As it is the first Corretor and give deciocho materials, and that
which goes no further than the nights.

Did not you know you?

Paz, fearful that Pateta flake, he said, lying:

- Yeah, man, do not
I know?

But I thought labor was carried home.

- Who, no ma'am! TAR do it there.

- And that the priest, what is?

- His brother, are you? is cured and has come about two months ago, and as a cure and very carca,
they are Golven Tarumba, and brings the house upside down, Quie to go to Mass, to pray more
a blind man, in short, that bridge will not hold ... nor I either.

- Why?

- To me it has got the very messy.

Pasao Sunday I had to go to work part day, because there was a hurry,
and then Mr. Pepe yevé home tests, and as was Sunday, and I, though
I say it is wrong, I'm battalion bugler volunteers Freedom in my neighborhood,
I was in uniform, PA does not have to walk the path twice.

The priest was at the door, wanted to let him test and, as I did not know him and had orders to
see the same man Pepe, are you? I felt like it. Look you, Miss, was made a beast, and what I
got angry was that I laughed at the uniform, I called bullshit, and said I would study the
doctrine. I, the truth, and still did not know who was the brother of Mr. Pepe ... Come on, I sent
my taste: I called cockroach, carca, too so I was happened.

- You say that revolt brother brings the family?

- You bet!

If not for fear of giving grief to a old man, and had Don Pepe Mita Creek Plant. Imagine you,
miss, that one of the things that have rabies Mr. Pepe harm has been
done to fight ... You will see: Miss Leocadia spoken with Mr. Miller,
my love, come on, they were married, as they say, and the cure has
got tares and has desapartao.

Of course, that would not be very encariñaos, because they had not
fought well ... so easily, right?

- But your love and Master Pepe
have not fought.

- Who!

Can not you see that the two are convinced that the fault is the cure? The mother Tié foolish
by dint of prayers ... You know Mr. Pepe where you are coming!

- Yes that is cause for disappointment!

- Other than that - continued Pateta - has always been in good humor even when he had to leave
the race, that soon came into the press ... and as if ná: he, in
working, and is happy.

You do not know yeva life: he here with you dad, he in the press,
he on the destination that ice you who take it.

Pa is a fierce work, and how much you earn, your house.

No spends more than snuff and it gives me some realejo possesses
me.

- Well, goodbye, go, lest we see - Peace said, handing in his
hand is a tiny two dollars.

Pateta, without detachment from the gate, said smiling, and intonation
very Achille:

- Who!

- Do not be a child, take it!

- Who, no, miss,
if I do what I do for Mr. Pepe, but I do not give you or So not even
a guy!

Peace was the coin in hand, more embarrassed than the lad.

- Do me a ugly?

- That no: and PAs see you, give me that rose that has you pinned
to his chest, then I I give to my girlfriend: You will have many like
that, and those not sold on the street.

Peace, moved by a sense of feminine delicacy, ran to the stove, cut
two magnificent roses, and gave the boy, as well as wearing garments,
said:

- These two, the highest, for your girlfriend this one small,
which I wore for Pepe: Do you understand?

"So you have a girlfriend?

- Well, what do you, Miss, I am to stick?
Understood: the largest pa mi chiquiya and the other Pá Mr. Pepe.

-
Bye, and what we talked about earlier, not a word ... chitito.

-
Current: God is with you, miss, and thanks