 

For I invited myself, but much suspicion that the preparations for the party must be entangled
and difficult. The party will take, then, to complete, and as I'm tired old I can not make it despite
the treat. I am happy with the program. I find him interesting and enjoyable. But frankly, I would
find much better if Mr. D. Eduardo Marquina, in whom acknowledge and applaud very high wearing
poet, employ less incentive and more brake to lead his Pegasus, and only carry the legs when he
rides his own Muse, legitimate and pure, and not the adventurous coming of foreign lands and whose
itch to draw attention prompts her to wear clothes often with a bit extravagant and exotic mannerisms.
There will be no surplus that Mr. D. Eduardo Marquina care at greater length and thoroughness the
cleaning and dressing of Musa when bring up again.

DON CRISTOBAL DE MOURA

FIRST MARQUIS DE CASTEL-RODRIGO

I

The book
whose title serves as a heading, can not fail to draw wide attention
for several reasons.

It is a historical work carried out with meticulous skill and the
most indefatigable care for relatives and collating documents, to
clarify many obscure points and give and fairly accurate idea of ??the
most important events in the history of the Iberian Peninsula from
the conquest of Granada until today.

Enhance the merit of the book a few years of its author, who has completed less than twenty-four of age,
and has endeavored to make a company full of great difficulties, I feel some of them insurmountable.

A
historical narrative, like a poem and just as a novel can be considered as a work of art, unity
of action as a whole and where all cases have and all characters
are displayed on the second or third term as hazy for that the main
hero or protagonist is not confused or lost and looks set to attract
and and persist in the minds of readers.

This should be written artistic life all celebrities. These are the ones that wrote Plutarch in
old age, and those among us has recently written Quintana.

This condition, however, was impossible to meet given the theme chosen by the young historian
D. Alfonso Danvila, and given the character or hero whose deeds are chronicled history and has
proposed.

D. Cristóbal de Moura, a Portuguese nobleman, who at the age of fourteen he entered as menino
the service of Princess Juana, conquers the estimate, confidence and affection of that egregious
lady, follows from Portugal to Castile, by his command plays very
difficult commissions and shows in all rare intelligence and singular
skill and tact.

A prudent King Don Felipe II then recognizes the capacity and server assert his sister and advantage
of such high conditions, using a Portuguese gentleman that matters
most arduous.

D. Business and happy Cristóbal de Moura, the plays at ease and satisfaction of the sovereign,
and is delicate, refined and intelligent tool for its arts policy and its cautious prudence.

In the biggest event in our history, in the performance, unfortunately much success durable, the
highest aspiration of the Spanish patriotic, D. Cristóbal de Moura involved and happy with
astonishing efficiency. Rather than the military prowess of the great Duke of Alba, and more
than the formidable army that led, perhaps to be very quick and subtle diplomacy gift Christopher
union of Portugal and Castile, and above all, that this union is
accomplished with little violence, blood and slaughter, to make himself
fit to counterbalance the power solvent Further bad governments, numb
and soothe the inveterate enmity between Castilian and Portuguese,
and get at least sixty years the marriage lasted two nations, despite
of our rapid and pitiful decline.

The action of D. Cristóbal de Moura is most unquestionable in all of this and their evidence
is manifest with perfect clarity thanks to the arrest report which Mr. Danvila, illustrated
by a copying of documents, not a few of them unknown and unpublished until now and removed from
the files.

D. Cristóbal de Moura does not happen, however, from being a mere instrument of wills over human,
the figure sinks and drowns, so to speak, in the raging torrent of
the great events, and their personality is obscured and overshadowed
by those princes and lords involved in the events, which govern or
determine, and whose character, talents, virtues and vices, our curiosity
and wake up call to them our thoughts a thousand times more attractive.

Princess Dona Juana and King Don Felipe cautious stand almost continuously and we cover up or
not let us see D. Cristobal. Even the characters so short a moral and intellectual worth, as the
Cardinal D. King As Henry D. Antonio, Prior Crato, excel on the pedestal where they are placed,
and the social position, and also clog D. Cristóbal de Moura.

I'm not saying the above is of no confidence in the book of Mr. Danvila. I am unable to conceive
how the book had been written in another way, how its author could have overshadow King Don Sebastian
and Alcazalquivir disaster, the fall a nation so heroic, about the time of its wonderful expansion
and its peak. It was possible that the authorities repress his desire to paint while carefully specified
vaguely in the background to so many important characters that appear to first, without departing
from our sight and as a center and main object of all D. Cristóbal de Moura, who, however, it
is necessary to confess that he had more than anyone the success of the union of Portugal and Castile
and this union was less violent and much more durable than it might
have feared and what undoubtedly feared Philip.

Mr. Danvila writes about one of the times when it is more difficult for the historian previous
impartiality, or write to count and not to try. The first praise we must give Mr. Danvila,
is because it gets to overcome prejudice and portray characters and narrate their actions such
as left, leaving readers to judge, rate and fail.

Often, however, for many very precious data that accumulate and order a historian, readers, although
very knowledgeable, they can not be trial and sentencing. Otherwise the novelist is the method
that the story continues.

The novelist imagines his craving the characters of his novel, silly or discrete, evil or good-natured,
weak or spirited, and then inescapable dialectic moves them to say and do everything in line
with the budget. Instead, the historian and creates his characters, nor does a magic key to penetrate
its heart, to look into the chambers of his brain, and to discover and show their intentions, feelings
and purposes.

All this has to be inferred of what each character says and does: induction, in my opinion,
very subject to fraud, where has been doubted and always has played no little about the moral and
intellectual worth of very famous historical figures.

On D. Cristóbal de Moura no, there can be no doubt or dispute. Skilful and faithful servant it
complies with the mandates of his master and perfect their art of courteous and discreet negotiator,
and flexibility and patience are revealed in all his actions and particularly shine in the
art involved and suffers little gentle humor of King Felipe and preserves and enhances the confidence
that inspired them. But, as already mentioned, in the broad picture painted by Mr. Danvila, D.
Christopher is, and can not fail to be relegated to second and sometimes a third or fourth term.
The box contains almost the entire history of Spain and Portugal
from 1538 to 1613.

Given the outstanding figures and D. conspicuous John III, Queen Catalina, Princess Juana,
the Emperor Charles V, Duke of Alba, King D. Sebastian, Isabel de Valois, Prince D. Carlos, and finally,
King Philip himself, the discrete Portuguese gentleman can not but be obscured. In many chapters
the book just named it: sometimes it is presumed but not warranted to leave the scene. Who is always
present and active there is the king D. Felipe.

The book by Mr. Danvila corroborates once again the concept I have of this king, against which,
during his lifetime and after his death, have launched the harshest accusations and the most
passionate injuries without my guesses to give it less benign, more soulless hypocrite or between
a multitude of other monarchs, princes and magnates of the Renaissance. Felipe II was the
very goodness, sweetness and gentleness personified, sincerely religious and loving your country
and a model of paternal kings, if you compare it to John II of Portugal surnamed the perfect
prince, with Louis XI of France, Catherine de Medici and her children
Charles IX and Henry III, Henry VIII and Elizabeth I of England and
a few others that could not include, without excluding anything to
his father Caesar.

I presume that the rare and exceptional depravity that is attributed to Philip II takes origin
Based on the pledges of his character and acts of your life that you will exalt and illustrate: in
war without truce that was to Protestantism, struggling to not break the high informing principle,
directed and gave unity to European civilization. If achieving this finally used the Inquisition
burned heretics and made quite a few other atrocities and outrages was very wrong, but where
were then the rulers and governments more lenient and humans? Either in quality or quantity can compare
the victims sacrificed by Felipe II for which no Inquisition slaughtered
in Germany, France or England.

It was not necessary, for example, of the Inquisition in Spain for the execution of Vanini,
Bruno, of Miguel Servet, Thomas More and Mary Stuart. If we did the exact statistics of all burned
heretics in Spain, perhaps would be less in number that only witches' and witches were burned
in Germany. Thank God that we no longer live burns no such grounds and that anyone can be a heretic
and to impunity and a wizard; but did not accuse the sixteenth century Spanish monarch or his
Don Felipe II, more fans and cruel to other people of his time.

As true and clear even as I put above. Where to start my doubts, despite or because of the circumstantial
and detailed account of Mr. Danvila, is the idea that I form of political talent that King
D. Felipe was in dealings, negotiations, intrigues, tortuous detours, slowness and caution came
after Portugal to seize and to submit the full extent of our peninsula under his rule. So many
comings and goings, many ambassadors or outfalls different, simultaneous, and successive, monks,
saints, grandees of Spain and lawyers, already moved agreement, provide feedback, be demure
each other on the order of the king, and they understood this directory, and some with a secretary
and others with another, because King was suspicious of all this,
I wonder: was indispensable, to take over Portugal with little violence
and no offense too much to the Portuguese?

Was it strange then to the circumspection of the desired king Iberian union or was because
the timing was propitious: it was of God, as vulgar, wise and Christian you say?

Would not the reader experience some fatigue, although it is well written the book and the curious
and well-ordered news gives people and things, to penetrate entangled in the labyrinth of detours by
the king D. Philip pursues its aims? Seduce Portuguese with many promises and buy others with
money to stop the war and the shedding blood, and yet can not cancel the Prior of Crato and
seize it, or avoid to rebel, and needs to quell the rebellion with hard hands and tremendous
punishment, without ever to avoid the appalling excesses of an invading army almost always underpaid
and hungry in Spain and in that century, though he commanded so much authority and leaders
of energy as The Duke of Alba and Sancho de Avila.

I affirm nothing.

I limit myself to doubt. And from what I doubt is whether these events should be concluded
Philip II and circumspect, cautious and cunning, or if there is more reason to be regarded
as tentative, undecided and convoluted in the media and even heavy and cumbersome, if I may so
familiar and under the word.

II

Everyone sees things your way. History shows very little. Never enough similarity accidents
in two major events to valid and legitimate comparisons.

Let us dare, however, to compare, in spite of the insecure. Portugal humiliated, defeated in Africa
by Morocco, where she died the flower of his heroic nobility and their brave soldiers, little could
resist the ambition of a monarch to assert his hereditary right, was lord of Vastis kingdoms and provinces
and was in charge of the Spanish nation, leading then in Europe.

If we pay, then, the king Don Felipe, the assurance of our admiration
it was annexed to Portugal, so to speak, availing ourselves of the
verb is in fashion today, what astonishment, wonder why, do not inspire,
King Victor Emmanuel with Cavour and his Garibaldi when, after taking
the duchy of Milan by the hand of French and German by the hand of
the Veneto Prince shortly before Austria defeated and fined, dares
to break down and demolished several thrones, without excluding the
pope's temporal, takes over Naples and Sicily and founded the unit
Italy, secular aspiration never fulfilled since the time of the barbarian
king Theodoric?

Although I reject the comparison, denying the parity of the circumstances and the grounds diverse
nature of the times, still leans a little encouragement to have the somewhat problematic the
ability of King Philip. His circumspection sinned in detail. Maybe difficult its abundance of
media companies that used to give top. Some of these media were useless, counterproductive or damaging
others. An example is the mission, embassy or whatever you call, Fray Hernando del Castillo
to the unfortunate King Cardinal D. Enrique. What could only lead to self-mortifying, to offend
the poor monarch and sour Portuguese cad good friar's sermon to persuade him that he should not
get marriage? Is good and holy Christian liberty, but not to be confused with the insolent rudeness.
E insolent and rude walked the friar, preaching to the king for two hours sinfulness and outrageous
that it would be her marriage, useless because it was unable to consume, and how dangerous because
it could well give the Queen as legitimate heirs to the throne had to refuse.

As D. Cristóbal de Moura opposed, but in vain, the sermon of Fray Hernando impolitic del Castillo,
one might well say that on that occasion, as well as in some others, beat in counsel to his
August master.

Is unique, in my view, the patent superiority of the village, at the time of greatest worth in
Spain the princes who led their destinations, except the Catholic Monarchs. They knew well
iron-fisted rule of anarchy, combining the forces of the nation and directs and guides all of their
greater aggrandizement. Used in this work by serving, eminent men in the arts of peace and war
captains, bold adventurers, sailors and missionaries, shrewd statesmen, jurists, scholars and theologians,
and, finally, to elegant brilliance that parallels the political aggrandizement, glorious and fruitful
inspired poets and artists.

The ferment of decay and corruption, rather than the village, appeared in the dynasty. In Dynasty
almost from the beginning, he warns.

Madness, poet and love call Queen Juana, it would seem as nervous condition, more or less latent,
is transmitted inherited by almost all individuals in the family, until finally manifested with
the character of notable imbecility in King Carlos II. No matter how sympathetic, heroic or virtuous
who are some characters always shines through in them something, and sometimes much, of unhealthy
and unbalanced. Prince Don Carlos and King Don Sebastian look at this as good cousins. The
same princess, mother of Don Sebastian, has little strange not and mysterious. Beautiful and
passionate woman had to be no doubt when he inspired such ardent love the prince her husband, she
chose to separate from death.

Against the advice of the doctors, the prince died in the arms of Doña Juana. And yet, this
lady was so austere and aloof, which would not allow you to see or face. Covering him was
when he gave hearing as governor of the kingdom, being absent from his brother Don Felipe II.
Sometimes as someone doubted that he spoke with her, she quickly discovered, was wondering
if Princess Joan, and not well answered yes, again covered.

Perhaps it was less rare among the princes of that family, the most judicious and reasonable,
the most loved his country and the greatness which sought more tenaciously, therefore and study
was the king Don Felipe. If not by the rapid flight of intelligence and the Will Power early, Felipe
II is worthy of applause by the constant application looking for the good of his people. Far
from being hypocritical I believe, I believe him perfectly convinced good faith that it was
God's representative on earth and that the new people of God was that of Spain. Considering
Don Felipe charge of carrying out the civilizing mission this town, was the champion of the
Catholic Church and under its auspices, deploying to greater generosity than with Spain with
the subject countries, and the same monarch, and his subjects imitating,
the sciences and the arts, monuments erected, established temples,
palaces and pious institutions and encouraged, rather than suppress,
all progress, all improvement material and any theory or scientific
or philosophical system that was opposed to revealed dogma, opposition
then fed less frequently than in the day.

For in the day with the same determination many rely on science as a weapon to combat faith, returns
to suspicious those who are defenders of the faith and say than a hundredfold the fourteen items.

It is true that with application and study would be easy to show that in the sixteenth century
just was no scientific or philosophical courage, condemned in other nations, despite the Inquisition
should find no welcome among us: systems of Copernicus and Galileo, transforming species, spontaneous
generation, rational beings than the offspring of Adam and of angels and in short, as a writer
or thinker dream occurred to him, test or take for demonstrated and non-Judaizing transcend,
Moorish, Lutheran or Calvinist. The subsequent decline Spain is born intellectual, then, compression
of thought by the inquisitors. Other causes had. His research is arduous and tedious.

We incur the same fault, that if we do not censor, we repair in the book of Mr. Danvila, we are
talking about all these articles and D. Cristóbal de Moura we let you forgotten. Let us and
Let's remind him.

After his diplomatic campaign in Portugal, D. Christopher, full of honors and grants, reach the
top of credit and valimiento near his sovereign. To stand in such enviable position, earned him
not only his discretion and rare ability in business, but also their zeal, their strong loyalty
and his deep and sincere devotion to the prince whom he served. Never gave greater account of himself
and flashed both these items as in the past, slow and painful illness of the said King, who attended
D. Christopher, sleepless, solicitous, until the moment of his death. Need was, without doubt,
D. Christopher had health bronze strong will and extraordinary vigor of mind and body to resist
fatigue, mastery disgust and not cringe at the horror of the ghastly
scene that he witnessed and took part for fifty-three days.

In the modest room, next to the sanctuary, and where may be the altar and the magnificent temple
of the Escorial, his dour founder, attended and care for D. Christopher spent the fifty-three
days referred to in such a cruel martyrdom, that hardly seemed possible
that they could resist human strength.
