 The embroidery is represented all
the flowers of the field and every bird of the air and all the stars of the ether. Wearing King
no less wonderful a tiara, bangles and bracelets, and earrings two round pearls each size of a
quail egg.

Her hair fell in curls over the back perfumed, and his beard was menudísimos curls, artistic and symmetrically
arranged. Her dress and delicate fragrance him goodbye. Despite my severely, I could not but
admire the fineness of the King Nanar, and confessed, back in myself,
that was the most comm'il faut that I had tried in my life.

The King I stayed in his palace, I gave lavish parties, and I was distracted in such a way that
almost made me forget the object of my mission. We had a concert and a dance, and a dinner style
that gave Baltasar many years later. I did not dare to ask King what he had done in Parsondes.
I did not understand that a man so excellent, that he entertained
and regaled guests with elegance and courtesy that, had been killed
or had in hard captivity of my dear teacher.

Finally, one night I plucked up all my restraint and resolve, and told Nanar, on behalf the King
my master, who at the time was going to say where was the virtuoso Parsondes if not want to lose
the kingdom and life. Nanar, instead of answering, he brought the point to all cantatrice the
Bayadere and was in the palace: it is understood that off-campus, harem or whatever you call,
reserved for their wives. The Milita such priestesses moved from nine hundred, and were the
most beautiful and skillful that could hardly be found in all Asia. The girls came dancing,
singing and playing flute, finger cymbals and harps, it was a matter
of taste to see them and hear them.

I sat rapt. Nanar he said, and here was the more my amazement:

- Behold the holy Parsondes among these women. Parsondes, come here and greet your former student.

Went
out from the center of that crowd one female, were it not for the beard, had could be confused
with women. He wore black painted eyebrows, eyelids blue, in order to shine more eyes and cheeks
covered with lipstick. It was all perfumed her dress was almost as rich as the King, his effeminate
and languid gait, his ears hung exquisite earrings, from his throat a necklace of pearls encircled
her forehead a wreath of flowers.

It was the same Parsondes, who threw her arms around his neck.

- I am, I said, well other than he was before. Return, if you want to Susa, but do not say I live
it, that wizards do not be offended, and to continue taking a recent example of holiness to
appeal. Nanar avenged my rough and unkempt making me a prisoner under and sending me soaping
and scrubbing with a scouring pad. After washing my continued and perfuming twice a day, giving
me a hitch, and forcing me to be with all these bright young ladies, where I ended up forgetting
my Zoroaster and austere preaching, and convinced that in this life time we must have the
best possible without engaging in the lives of others. Care Agenos kill the donkey, and none more
so than who mixes in censoring the vices of others, if only it lacks
the opportunity to into them, or when, if they have not fallen, it
must be out of ignorance, bad taste and rustiqueza.

I put my hands on the ears to hear such blasphemy from the mouth of that wise admirable. I was desperate
and angry to see him become a bon vivant, with their points and collar of shameless rascal,
but to avoid scandalous gossip, I decided to advise the school of wizards to continue arguing
that Parsondes had risen to the empyrean, and to continue venerating
his image, without discovering never before flatly denying that he
lived with Parsondes the dancers of Babylon in the palace of Nanar