 By hindrance
of these roofs and the long line of the façade of the house, only reached to see the right,
a narrow strip of cultivated land, parallel to the river and falling the valley, as all traces,
extended to that part, ie, right River. And all this, the courtyard and roofs, and the ground
outside, and the brambles and ferns and the railing of the balcony, in short, as was seen
or felt from my observation, moist, glistening and dripping.

There being no smiling thing that put the light on that side, we went to the other facade corresponding
to clear the border to my bedroom. Through this door I went to a large balcony or "Sunshine"
wood sandwiched between two "corners" or mensulones masonry, also called "Firewall." In my right
protruding edge thickness and cut of a coat of arms headed could not see it sticking out the
corners of the balcony railing. Unable see also from there, and for the same reason, the rest of
the facade, I supposed, and not without reason, that the building was occupied by my body overhang.
The balcony fell on a garden of the same width as that facade of the house, and very little
longer, with corresponding inclinations toward her and toward the river, a dozen fruit trees in skeleton,
a box half rotten cabbage, some plants of rue, marjoram and rosemary, a vicious rose fallow
Moreover, an old wall to fence it all, and over the wall, the emerging black moles of a rocky
amphitheater of mountains that are beyond walking in tall with the rock on the right, which
was part of it. And you could not see otherwise.

From the direction of light and other signals rather easy to estimate, say for sure that front
of the house faced south, and the lastral coming down to my left, ie to the east, between the
wall of the garden and the mountain on that side from a high cliff that I saw something far
away, I had come the night before. For this wind had nothing to observe, Well before it was
the mountain that ran parallel to amaze with its mole home. There was, therefore, to look to the
north of the "sun of my elders' perspective of the entire valley, that seemed to Chisco 'point less
than the glory. "

To this end I left the sunshine of my room, and went out to dinner. Were open the two which gave him clear
outside the home. I approached one of them, and saw that it corresponded another utility both
well hidden in the lee of the wall of my room that indeed projecting much of the general line
of the facade. Between this wall and a lot mensulón less salient than the opposite end she ran
the utility, which was also a door my uncle's bedroom.

Was open and I slipped inside. There was no more than a bed in the same style as mine, but
large, calls marriage a crucifix and a wall benditera the headwall, a comfortable, two hangers,
a washstand, a cow couch, two chairs and a rug. The bed was already made, the floor swept and
all things in order, a sign that my uncle had but I got up early. I looked out an open window
on the east wall next to a cupboard, and saw what I had already suspected:
the black rocky place, mottled vegetation cracks wild and separated
from the house through an alley slope, slippery slabs.

Returning to the dining room of the Hall, I found myself with my uncle who entered it by the front
door. Came weary, leaning on a cane. In the light of day it seemed very different from its
design what had seemed to artificial light. The thin white skin of his face was a shade blue,
and in her eyes and her mouth a very strong expression of longing. However, his "humor" was
the usual, and if otherwise dissimulation, was not known. Was amazed to find myself up so early.
Come to see what was in me if I heard stirring at bed, to enter, in this case, to open up
the balcony, if he wished, and if not, to have pleased to give me
good morning.

I thanked him very much for your care, and after hugging him asked how he had spent the night
and why so early.

- As always, the son of the soul - contestóme, coughing and wheezing -. And may God grant me
the worst.

In good health, I woke up at dawn, since I have such bad sleep, I long much the sun, and everything
and thus, too much time in bed.

It seemed that the chill of the early morning dew was not feeling
good, and so I told him advising him to beware of him.

- That will
be with you - he answered with his usual jocular air -, accustomed
to living between crystals, but among the montunos around here! ...
Woe to you Celso uncle the day I can not eat with a casing of the
grace of God! But, let's see, how about you? Have you breakfast and
a little more to your liking