 If so bad collated this globe, "replied the dwarf, if
it is so irregular, and a configuration that seems so ridiculous that everyone is I imagine
chaos. ? Not see these streams, which runs any right, these ponds and are round or squares,
or oval or any regular figure, all these bumps pointed that this bristling, and I have entered
on your feet? (And wanted to talk about the mountains). ? Do not you notice the way around the globe,
flattened at the poles, and spinning around the sun so confused direction, which by necessity
climates of both poles have to be uneducated? What forces me to believe that there is really living
in, is that no one who had reason floor would want. ? Who cares? Micromegas he said, may not have
common sense people, but after it is presumed that this has been done without any purpose. You
say that you all here appears irregular because everything is thrown into the line in Jupiter
and Saturn. Well, for the same reason is perhaps some confusion here. ? No I said that I had
always noticed variety in my journeys? Replied the Saturnino these reasons, and not completed
the dispute, if the heat she had not broken the thread of his Micromegas diamond necklace,
and caidose these, that they were very nice bright, though tiny and uneven, the thicker weighed
four hundred pounds, and fifty the most petite. Some grabbed the dwarf, and leaning saw the eyes
as they were polished, microscopes were excellent: grabbed as a kid microscope hundred and sixty feet
in diameter, and was applied to one eye, while Micromegas is served another two thousand and
five hundred feet. At first they saw nothing with them, since they were gifted, had to be put in
the position that was required. After the inhabitants of Saturn saw something bobbing imperceptible
in midwater the Baltic Sea, and it was a whale, nicely laid it over your finger and placing
it in a thumb, she was taught to Sirius, the second time he laughed at the huge smallness
the inhabitants of our globe. Persuaded by that Saturnino was inhabited our world he imagined
then that it was just for whales, and as it was great discurridor, tried to guess where the movement
came to an atom so mean, and if I had ideas, will and free will. Micromegas not know what to think,
but having examined the animal patiently, bag of consideration that he could not reside in the
body as a soul boy. Inclinabanse for our two walkers to believe that there is no reason in our
room, when, with the aid of a microscope, package distinguish other thicker than a whale in
the Baltic Sea walked fluctuating. We know that by that time returned from the polar circle,
a flock of philosophers, who had gone to make observations that no one had hitherto thought. They
brought the papers public that their boat had capsized off the coast of Bothnia, and they had
a difficult time going out to rescue, but you never know in this world there is to vnder rope. I
I have naively the event, without removing or adding anything, effort on the part of a historian is
exceedingly meritorious.

CHAPTER V.

Experience and reasoning of both walkers.

Micromegas tended with great circumspection hand via the site of the object, and stretching
and shrinking fingers of fear of being wrong, and then opening them and closing them, I take very mana
the ship where they were these gentlemen, and placed on a "not too tight, not estruxarle. Lo here
a very different animal from the other, 'said the dwarf of Saturn and Sirius put the pretense
animal in the palm of the hand. The passengers and sailors tripulacioon, which is believed caught
by a storm, and thought they aground on a Baxi, are all in motion; sailors caught barrels of wine,
toss them at the hand of Micromegas, and after they are thrown; seize the geometries of quarts
circle, their sectors, and Lapp, and alight on the fingers of Sirius: Finally both were busy,
they felt it shaking a thing that beetles in the fingers, and it was a club with an iron tip
nailed him a foot in the index finger: the itching made him believe that the body had become
something The creature that I had on hand, but could not suspect anything at first, as its microscope
barely enough to distinguish a ship of a whale could not make visible a entecillo as inconspicuous
as a man. I do not want censure of any vanity here, but please vainglorious people to stop
the consideration here, and consider that if ordinary height of a man five feet of the king,
but do not lump in the ground than in a ball ten feet in circumference did an animal that
had a hundred avos thousand of an inch high. Let us imagine a substance that could lead the globe
terraquueeo in hand, and had bodies similar to ours, and it is most likely that there many of these
substances, and I gather that is what the functions of war, we have won two or three small
place that has since been restoring force would think.

I have no doubt that if any captain of grenadiers shall read this book, have your troop put hats
two feet higher, but I warn you that, however you do, always will be the and his soldiers about
infinitely small.

iQue wonderful mana you need our philosopher had Sirius for managing to descry the atoms of
which I speak! Quando Hartsoeker Leuwenhoek and saw, or believed that Vian for the first time,
the seed of which we are formed, there was not nearly as amazing discovery. iQue Micromegas
like that of when he saw these razors wiggle, when examine all their movements, and continued
its operations! iCom cried! icon who retired extension cord to his partner of one of its microscopes
journey! I'm watching them, they said both together; behold as loaded as baxan and rise. So
they said, and they shook hands the joy of seeing objects as new, and the fear of losing sight.
Saturnino passing of a trust to the opposite end of credulity, it figures that he was busy
watching in the propagation. Ha, he said the Saturnino, I have caught nature "red-handed." However
Enganabanle appearances, and so very frequeentemente happens, when one uses and when do not use
microscopes.

CHAPTER VI.

From what I happened to men.

Very best observer Micromegas his dwarf, he saw clearly that the atoms were spoken, and it pointed
out to his partner, which with the embarrassment of having deceived about the article the generation,
unwilling to believe that such kind of bugs could communicate ideas. He had the gift of tongues
is not less than Sirius, and not hearing about our atoms, supposed who did not speak: then? as
the organs were to have a voice as subtle bodies, or that they had to say? To talk is essential to
consider and if thought, had something which was equivalent to the soul: and attribute something equivalent
to a kind soul so base, is to much nonsense. The Syrian told him:? For You thought not, little does,
which were falling in love? ? Do you think to love one without thinking, without saying a word,
or at least not make themselves understood? , Or suppose it is easiest thing to a child a
syllogism? My one and one I seem impenetrable mysteries. I dare ya, 'said the dwarf, to believe
or deny any thing, try to look these insects, and runs later. iQue my place! Micromegas answered,
and drawing a tixeras, trim her nails, and short of what one of her thumb made the point a kind
of big horn, like a huge funnel, and put the fee at an ear, the circumference funnel took the
ship and all its crew, and the weakest voice in the fibers were introduced circular one, so that,
through their industry, the philosopher of heard up there well the buzz of our insects abaxo here,
and within hours was able to distinguish words, and understanding after the French. So did
the dwarf, but not so easily. Spot grew the astonishment of the two travelers, on hearing about
quite a few mites reason, and this game seemed inexplicable nature. Well it goes that he was
dying the dwarf and Syrian desire to engage in conversation with the atoms, but the dwarf
is feared his thunderous voice, and even more of Micromegas, thundered to the mites without
being overheard. They tried, as to diminish its force, and it got a toothpick in his mouth very
tiny, very sharp as he was going to stop next to the ship. He put the dwarf on the Syrian his knees
and one on top of a ship with the crew; Baxo head and spoke very quietly, and after all these precautions
and many more, said the following: Invisible bugs the right hand of the Creator is pleased
to produce in the abyss of the infinitely small, I manifest myself worthy bless because impenetrable
secrets. Perhaps no one is worthy of yourselves in my court, but
I despise anyone, and I give you my protection.

If there has been amazing in the world, none has reached the that this was heard to say, unable to hit
upon which he left. The chaplain pray the prayers of spells, and disowned voted sailors, and
forged a philosophers of the ship, but for most envisioned systems, were unable to hit upon who was
speaking to them. And he told them in brief the dwarf of Saturn, which was less Micromegas is
stronger voice with which people were talking, and his journey to Saturn: I inform the gentleman
who was Micromegas, and having compassion they were so young, I wonder if they had always lived
in a state as bordering on nothing, and that was what they were doing
in a balloon which appeared to be peculiar to whales, if they were
happy, if they had soul, if multiplied, and a thousand other questions
of this sort.

Dudasen angry that if I had a soul, a reasoning of the band, more daring than others, the participant
observed a finlets adapted to a quarter of a circle, measured with two triangles, and the third
told him so:? With what you believe, sir knight, that because you have two thousand yards from
head to toe, you are some ...? gone a thousand yards! exclaimed the dwarf, it is not wrong
or an inch. iCon I measured the atom! icon that is geometry, and he knows my size and I that
I can not see without the aid of a microscope, not even yours! Yes, that I have measured he
said the physical, and also measure your giant companion. Admitiose the proposal, and Acosto His
Excellency on the ground, because they stood their head was higher than the clouds, and our
philosophers they planted a tree in a very large site or Torres Quevedo been appointed by
name, but I do not dare to lie on the great respect that I have the
ladies, and then by a series of triangles, connected to each other,
guessing that the person was a mancebito mediate hundred and twenty
thousand feet of a king.

Micromegas then burst out in these reasons: I see that you never have to judge things its apparent
magnitude. O God, who gave intelligence to some substances such despicable seem infinitely small
costs no more to your omnipotence that the infinitely large; and if it is possible that other
creatures smaller than them, perhaps will have a higher intelligence
that of those huge animals I've seen in the sky, and with one foot
would cover the entire globe where I am now.

Answered one of the philosophers who could not believe it, but you have any doubt, he had loved much
more intelligent boys than men, and told him not fables that we have forsaken Virgilio on bees,
but what Swammerdam discovered, and what has dissected Reaumur. Instructed him then there are
animals that are about bees, which are the bees with respect man, and what was the Syrian
same with respect to those so stout of animals speaking, and what are these big animals compared
with other substances to the quale seem imperceptible atoms.

Gradually the conversation was becoming interesting, Micromegas and
said so.

CHAPTER VII.

Conversations with men.

O atoms intelligent, in whom it pleased the eternal Being in showing their art and power no doubt
that your globe PLEASURE purest happy, as having so little substance and looking all spirit,
you ought to use your life in love and think that is true life of the spirits. In part I have
seen no real happiness, but I am sure this is his mansion. Encogieronse shoulders to hear
this argument all the philosophers; and more naive one sincerely confessed, except a very few of
residents very little appreciated, everything else is a cafile crazy, perverse and unfortunate.
More material we have, he said, which is necessary to do evil, if evil comes from matter, and
more intelligence, if it comes from intelligence. ? Par example You know that when this one
hundred thousand fools of our species, who wear hats, are killing a hundred thousand other animals
covered with a turban, or dying at their hands, and so is style throughout the land, immemorial
time here? The Syrian terribly shocked, and asked the reason for such horrible strife between
so vile little creatures. It is, he said the philosopher, a few scraps of land sizes as your foot,
not because neither one of the millions who die request even a lump
of that piece, it is to know whether to belong to a certain man Sultan
called or another surname Cesar, do not know why.

Neither has been and never see the little corner of land that is in dispute, nor least almost
none of the animals that has been reciprocally are killed either by the person who kills the animal.

iDesventurados!
Sirius exclaimed indignantly:? as you can imagine so mad frenzy? Starters come to give me
three steps, with three kicks estruxar ridiculous this whole swarm of murderers. You do not
take that job, he responded, which left them till toil ruin. Know that within ten years in life
fails, the tenth of these wretches, and that even without drawing the sword, almost everyone
carries the hunger, fatigue, or the distemper, apart from that it is they who deserve punishment,
but the idle ruthless, which stuck sent in his cabinet, as they digest the food, slaughter a million
men, and are then solemn thanksgiving to God. I felt the walker moved to pity the wretched
lineage human in so many contradictions found qual. As you, he said to these gentlemen, the short
number of scholars who certainly kill anyone for money, I pray you tell me quale are your occupations.
Dissected flies, "replied the philosopher, measured lines, combined numbers, we agree on two
or three points that mean, and divided on two or three thousand who do not understand. It occurred
to Sirius and ask questions Saturnino atoms thinkers, to know about that they were consistent. ? Far
is, he said this, since the star Canicula to the big Geminis? They answered together: Thirty-two
degrees and one-half .--? Quanto far from here the moon? - Sixty semi-diameter of the earth
.--? Quanto weighs your ayre? Taken if any thought, but all they told him that weighed nine hundred
times less the same volume of water lighter, and nineteen thousand times less than gold. Astonished
the little elves urgently Saturn with their answers, I was tempted to believe that those were
magic ones to whom a quarter of an hour before the intelligence had
been denied.

Micromegas finally said to them: Once you know how time what is outside of you no doubt that you
will know better yet what is inside: say they know what is your soul
and how are your ideas. Philosophers spoke all at the same time, as
before, but all were of a different opinion