 What I aspire to cultivate love Cecilia with Leonardo Gamboa?
He was a white man from a wealthy family, related to the first Havana, studying for a lawyer,
in case of marriage, it would certainly with a lower-class girl, whose name alone is enough to indicate
the darkness of her origin, and whose mixed blood was discovered in his wavy hair and the
tan color his face. Her incomparable beauty was thus a relative quality, which perhaps the only
had to win over the hearts of men, but that title was not paid to leave it in the area where
he was born and raised to one in which whites turned a country of slaves. Perhaps some less
beautiful than her and more mixed blood, rubbed at that time with the cream of Havana society, and
even had titles of nobility; but they obscure or conceal their origin or had been born and had grown
in abundance; and you know that gold purify the blood more turbid and covers the major defects,
physical and moral.

But these reflections, natural look, we are sure that ever occupied
the mind Cecilia.

Loved by a spontaneous feeling of his fiery nature and only saw in cute white girl lover, many
properties superior to all of their class, could aspire to his heart and his favors. In the
shade of white, it was illegal their union, believed and hoped Cecilia up forever, leaving
the humble sphere in which he had born, if not her, her children. Married to a mulatto, fall
by their own estimation and that of their peers, because these are the aberrations of any company
incorporated as Cuban.

The coachman, meanwhile, down the street at a trot O'Reilly took that
of Cuba, crossed diagonally the square of Santa Clara, then turned
to the streets of San Ignacio, and without a step ahead stopped the
race at the door of the house that had been designated.

This was a proof that the black coachman did not deserve the gross dictation gave Leonardo to enter the
wheel. Was not done to stop it, when a student jumped onto the sidewalk and at the same rate tossed
a coin coachman. She welcomed him into the air, took her into his eyes, saw that it was a quarter
columnar, crossed with her, spurred, and he continued, saying: - Many health, child.

CHAPTER XI

In my country under the sky desnublado Could not resolve to be a slave,
not consent to everything in nature was less noble and happy man.

     
     JOSE MARIA HEREDIA
     
     Emilia.
     

         Leonardo thought he noticed when he jumped from the wheel to the curb,
a soldier, in full uniform, walking rapidly toward the Plaza Vieja,
had become separated from the second window from home, and had fallen
at one of a shutter of the same good familiar face of one of her sisters.

     He quickened his step, and indeed, through another wicket the gate
of the hall, she saw her sister Antonia, in the act of raising the
curtain enter the first room, the door into the room.

Upsets him more than they can imagine this unexpected discovery because he was convinced by
tying ropes, not to stay doubt that while he is dallying with the mulatto beyond the neighborhood
of Angel, a master of Spanish army and the clear light of an October morning, she's dallying
here for sister the district of San Francisco. The memory of that pleasant time was enjoyed and
still which hung in his mind brilliant view, was fouled, vanished entirely before the unpleasant
scene at the window of his home.

Of the generation that seek to paint now under the political point of view-moral, and were shown
genuine Leonardo Gamboa and his fellow students, we must repeat that reached very superficial
notions about the situation of his country in the world of ideas and principles. To put it bluntly,
his patriotism was of a Platonist, because not based on a sense of duty, or the knowledge
of one's rights as citizen and as a free man.

The constitutional system that had ruled in Cuba, the first time from 1808 to 1813, the second
from 1821 to 1823, nothing had taught the generation of 1830. For she had passed as a dream,
as things of another world or another country, press freedom, the Militia, frequent exercise
of the right of suffrage, the rallies, agitations and propaganda
of the most exalted, the councils of the Masonic societies, Chairs
Law and Political Economy, the lessons of the Constitution of Father
Varela.

After each of these two brief periods he had spent on the wave of despotism Cuba Metropolitan
and clearing up the ideas and principles so eagerly planted by distinguished teachers and eminent
patriots. Gone were the free newspapers, leaflets and the few books published in two memorable times,
of which, if there was one other copy was in the hands of the bibliographer, who had dual effort
to hide.

Subject to censorship, the press was silent throughout the island since 1824, not deserving that name
the very few newspapers, which are then published in another large population thereof. The
state of siege since then was overwhelmed the country would not agree discussion of the issues
that might be of interest to most people. Serious crime was to try policy in public and private,
to the use of names of people and even things was strictly forbidden.

Past events, as well inside and outside Cuba, attempts at revolution in the latter, the result of
the tremendous struggle for freedom and independence on the continent, all this was buried in the
mystery and oblivion for the general Cubans. The story also captures and saves every appropriate
opportunity for even not been written.

No missing out at one of those who seek and strive militant political for the country to get news
of what was happening around her and could teach to remind people of their duties and their rights.
To that end, among others, the virtuous Father Varela published in Philadelphia El Habanero,
from 1824 to 1826, but the Spanish government declared subversive role and banned their entry
into Cuba.

So that you can ensure that very few copies circulated in it. Later, ie from 1828 to 1830, also
undertook Saco North America in the publication of The Messenger Weekly newspaper political science
and literary which, for the same reasons as above, had little movement in Havana and did not
exercise appreciable influence on the politics. The only thing in that newspaper echoed in the
Havana youth, as mentioned above, was the controversy that his illustrious editor had with the
director of the Botanical Garden in Havana, Ramon de la Sagra, the passionate criticism that
he had made the volume of poems given birth in Toluca, in the year 1828 by the distinguished Tyrtaeus [20]
Cuban José María Heredia.

More and more general influence exerted on the minds of youth the patriotic verses of that celebrated
poet. On all his ode La Estrella de Cuba, October 1823, his letter Emilia, 1824, his sonnet to Don
Tomás Boves. His Hymn of Exile, 1825, caused a lively enthusiasm in Havana, many learned it from
memory and not just repeated it whenever it offered the opportunity
to do so without risk of personal freedom.

But even those newspapers, neither these fiery verses, Magu to overflowing in free and patriotic
ideas, were enough to inspire that feeling of patriotism and freedom that sometimes impels
men to the self-sacrifice, they put the sword in his hand and throws them to conquer their rights.

Were also confusing, if not already sad reminiscences of past conspiracies. In the year 12 only
survived the name of Aponte, [21] head riot of it, because it always painting was offered to an
individual evil or cursed, cried the old: - More bad Aponte! From the year 23 was known by tradition,
Lemus, the head, moaning in a prison of Spain, who had escaped from
Peoli Bethlehem headquarters disguised as a woman, that Ferrety, the
informer, he enjoyed the favor or favors of Government, and that Armona,
the arresting and persecuting of the main conspirators remained only
the head of the gendarmerie captain General Francisco Dionisio Vives.

As rumor had spread over the U.S. government had opposed the invasion Cuba and Puerto Rico
by troops from Mexico and Colombia, and that these results had hanged back in Port au Prince in 1826,
as emissaries of the insurgents, Sanchez and Agüero. [22] But the point had come oblivion and
indifference in the same days we referred to in the preceding pages, it was because of disloyalty to
the accomplices of the conspiracy called the Black Eagle, many of whom were prisoners in barracks
Dragon, the color of the Militia in Castle Point and elsewhere, and
not be cast to see signs of discontent, even of interest in the people.

Also

the Cuban conspirators previous botched attempts, or were still far of the country, or died in
exile, or had warmed the patriotic ardor and wore dark and peaceful life, devoted to repair
the damage that had occurred their health and their wealth, time and the contradictions of
men. It was, therefore, not occupation could be those who had returned to the motherland,
the views and propaganda political projects conceived and cherished during the days of exaltation
and blind faith freedom.

For its part, the Creoles and Spaniards emigrated from the continent
as to correct their behavior cowardly, selfish or backward in the
war for independence, on arrival to Cuba only addressed to distort
the nature of the event, calling the unjust, perverse and of ignoble
motives of the patriotic sacrifices of the revolutionaries, amenguando
their deeds, becoming fiercely to their acts of mere justice and retribution.

To these renegade Republican and patriot was an insurgent, that is, a rebel, an enemy God and
King, the pirate, a pirate or a Muslim, as he called the people to Algerians that by the end
of the last century infested the coasts of the Mediterranean.

The habanero reader, aware of the youth of the time we try to describe, we believe easily if
we say that Gamboa did not care for politics, and even if you happen Once a slave moaned Cuba,
there was in her mind even then, that he or any another Cuban, should
have the means to deliver them.

As Creole began to enter the rustle of the elderly and people studying law, it had formed a state
idea better society and a military government less oppressive to their homeland. However,
although son of a Spanish father, who, being rich and visiting trade in preference of his
countrymen, and felt hatred towards them, much to the military, on whose shoulders, clearly,
rested the factory complex colonial Cuba. There could not therefore make him good blood on
a military blow you dear sister, were so alive before jealousy experienced, and deep was the
hatred he felt for the man as both a soldier and Spanish.

Accordingly, he entered his house sullen. The table was set for lunch, and Leonardo instead of
going in search of his mother, as usual, seeing no one took his cloth jacket and threw the book
at a Asillo class, took off his cloth coat and put on a denim waistcoat of streaks of color. For
a short time was torn between whether it would throw on the bed, which with its freshness
and blue will fly renge invited to stand, or if he went to the balcony, where there were still shadow,
appeared the black Tirso and said: - Child, the lunch is on the table. And he hurried down, sitting
and finding his mother and father. The streets took seat next to the first, who from afar will cast
a loving gaze, as if surprising and had upsetting that he did not submit when he entered the
street. The second not even looked up from the plate to eat fried eggs with tomato sauce, although
right-had not seen the child since the previous day.

Then they were leaving one after another of the sisters of Leonardo
bedrooms, prepared to go outside, and sitting at the table in silence,
as nuns in the refectory.

Each which it occupied in its respective position, ie Rosa with his favorite son to one side the
three daughters of the lady on the other, and Don Candido and the butler in the opposite headers
the table. It was no coincidence, then, but constant and deliberate this distribution, unless
altered by the appearance of a guest with whom he had used performance. Clearly indicated character,
habits and preferences of the family together and especially parents for their children.

Rosa preferences could not be mistaken: all in favor of Leonardo. The Don Candido, if some could
be seen on special occasions, was focused on his oldest daughter Antonia.

He was a businessman, rather than society. With little or no culture had been Cuba still young
in the mountains of Ronda, and indeed flow to force industry and
economy especially the good fortune that had blown into the slave
trade risky the coast of Africa.

Its main traffic in Havana, who served as a stepping stone to climb to the top of the wealth,
was the negotiation of wood and shingle in North America, red brick, bricks and lime of the
country, although the day did not address this unique and personally sonándole better on hearing
the title of farmer who gave his friends, down wit to manufacture sugar, jars, held in the jurisdiction
of Mariel, the coffee Las Mercedes in Guira de Melena, and pasture or meadow of Hoyo Colorado.

By
habit, rather than by nature, was quiet and cold in the treatment
of his family, holding him it isolated the primitive nature of their
occupations and the desire to accumulate money seized his spirit,
after he married a wealthy Creole, and more haughty family of Havana.

Early in his new life had been exemplary conduct, nor worthy guide Leonardo, as he has made to understand
Dona Rosa at the end of Chapter VII. By one and other reason, perhaps because of their ignorance supine
was not concerned with the education of their children, much less than its morality. Both
duties were the responsibility of that discreet lady who, if not
science had, yes the mother instinct and the purest love, with which
it can give better direction to the passions of youth snatched.

Notably in education, charity is the source and the mirror of all virtues.

As ignorant and rude man, was also Don Candido, strange way of scolding their children. We have
seen that when Leonardo was present in the room, not even looked at his face. This was an infallible
sign that still mad at him. Provided that any of them gave cause for complaint, apparently common
thing, punishing him or punish thought, denying the floor for days
and even months in a row.

So that by the father almost never find children the real cause of his anger, the mother in
such cases, always served as a conduit or intermediary to maintain peace and harmony within
the family.

Antonia, the picture of Dona Rosa in the physical, had 22 years of age. Leonardo spent of 20,
and fluctuated between 18 and 17 of her younger sisters, Carmen and Adele. The latter could
happen anywhere for a perfect model of beauty. Possessed all the conditions requiring the Greek
statuary in the person whose statue was carved: good head regular features, symmetrical shapes,
graceful bearing, slender stature, high forehead and eyes fire. With her look like the Venus [23]
Greek rather than one of the Fates, [24] had more resemblance to Don Candido with Rosa. Existed
between the father and daughter a little over what is generally understood
by family resemblance: the same physiognomic expression, the same
spirit, had printed on the face seal their progeny.

Leonardo occupied site in the table opposite her sister Adela, and if the father was before, while
it lasted lunch or dinner, including eyes crossed of intelligence, smiled often argued, in short,
affectionate and fraternal talks with eyes and lips, without uttering a word. That bound the
brothers strong ties of sympathy, it seemed quite obvious. There's one for the other so-called
angel. A be no sibling would have loved, as loved most famous lovers
she has met the world.

In the morning we are talking about did not happen, however, the usual. Leonardo was angry or
sad, or strange and deep concern he dominated the mood, the fact Adela is in vain, which I
used to, he sought his eyes, put his brow and tried to burn the compared with the rays of His
divine eyes, across the table. Never once crossed his eyes, there was to it in his face suddenly
petrified, a trait of affection. The innocent girl came to grieve. "Tell them as angry without
knowing why? What was his beloved brother? Why in the two or three times he was surprised at
her in deaf and mute contemplation, He lowered his eyes suddenly and perfect abstraction or
feigned indifference? Leonardo may not Adela explained clearly and was too young to understand
that it was inadvertently A comparative study of the charming face
of her sister.

What thoughts crossed then your mind? Hard to say, all I can sure as a positive thing it was
in the contemplation of Leonardo more astounded that mental distraction, more Meditation cold
delight, as if he had now discovered her sister's face something we had not noticed before.

It lasted an hour lunch, that long reign at the table as quietly, as just heard another sound
than the silver, no more voice than the asking this or that dish away the bold Tirso, they know our
readers, and a black young and handsome, who, with his arms folded across his chest while waiting
orders, were attentive to the needs of the service. The first, with all that, was mainly men, women
second. But one and another, it was noted, you guessed Don Candido to the thoughts, designated
by preceding the dish with a simple movement eye, for which purpose they kept it yours or the maid
Dolores Tirso, while served to other diners. Woe to them if they expected the wrong order or
the plate I wanted to replace the taste! The punishment did not expect: he threw at the head the
first thing that came into his hands.

The abundance of the food went hand in hand with the variety of dishes. In addition to meat beef
and pork fried, stewed and stewed beef hash was served on a cake of cassava wet, glistening
roast chicken with garlic butter and fried eggs almost drowned in a tomato sauce, cooked rice,
fried plantains also in Luengo and honeyed slices, and salad of watercress and lettuce. After
lunch, they filed a third servant, in shirt shirt, and that the dripping from his clothes looked
like the cook, with a pot of earthenware each hand and began to fill
with coffee and milk, first cup of Don Candido and on the Dona Rosa,
Leonardo, those of his brothers, ending with the Butler, but did not
occupy the last place where a table was head master and grand daughter
higher.

The Butler was only a white servant, and no better than the other servants defined its position
in that house.

The family took the coffee with hot milk as it passed through the dining room toward the street,
our acquaintance, the coachman Aponte. While still in his shirtsleeves, wearing shoes high riding boots
and silver spurs massive. Leading two horses by the bridle harnessed, whose tails were neatly
braided and tied by a cord ends of yarn to a bolt in the shaft of the chair from behind. Upon
entering the hall burst Aponte's partner and without delay opened wide the wide front door,
suspended by weight of chitin rods by silver rings that were bolted to the end and shouting:
- Back!, he took roll to the middle of the street, he turned and pulled him to the curb of your
home.

Once again took the bridle the same horse as before, hit a hard slap in the belly with his left
hand, almost by force put it between rods, and then hung them by the rings on double hooks hanging
from iron the chair, covered by small black cowhide skirts.