 This string is the end of the rough and rugged mountain system of the
former provinces of Chablais and Faucigny, between the valley of
the Arve and Lake Leman.

To the west, the inclined planes, their narrow valleys, hills, steep slopes and finally the towering
hills are happening in beautiful amphitheaters and choppy from the waves of the lake just highlights
of the Jura ridges. All that landscape topo-orographic effect is wonderful, in contrast, or
rather, matching the lake, as if the background is the long narrow blue surface, but holds
above the belt of vineyards, cheerful orchards, farms and capricious funny sowings multicolored sash
framed up just under dark, superbly majestic high Jurassic vegetation (forests of pine and spruce)
and rocks of limestone composition to star in some peaks. Finally, north swell, from irregular
contour lines, light waves, wonderfully transparent blue of the lake, sometimes violently shaken by the
hurricanes that blow in the Alps, some asleep and muttering, groaning under the keel often some steam
or brigantine, immobile like a huge mirror which reflects the splendor of the blue sky and endless
abyss. And these waves, which is always taken away or intrigued, they will stop at the picturesque
setting of the banks and hills of the canton of Vaud, ground wave of gleaming vegetables. Geneva
or Lake Leman is, without doubt, the most beautiful and useful of
which contains Switzerland, rivaled only by the Constance under the
commercial point of view.

Taking the whole shape of an arc or crescent, the ends bent to E. and
S. O. are in Villanueva (Villeneuve) and Geneva, ie towards the entrance
and exit of the Rhone river's banks were closely Ivoire (Savoy setentrional)
and the line that determines the long and narrow small gulf.

The top is called the "great lake", the lower the "little lake" or the Geneva itself. Its greatest length
is 71 kilometers and maximum width of 14 to 4 km between Evian (port and small town of Savoy) and
Morges, Vaud canton villa, containing a total area of ​​1.430 square kilometers. The depth
varies greatly, it comes in the middle of the lake to 350 meters (prodigious in a lake nearby
mountains but which are low in general), while among Geneva Nion and never exceeds 97 meters.
Around the lake abounds in fish (30 species) and birds much more numerous species, offering lucrative
occupation of fishing to many people. The waters are turquoise blue admirable, perhaps unparalleled,
and this transparency is reached to the bottom clearly visible to many meters deep. This enormous
depth, unique phenomena of the internal currents and the action of
the opposing winds that dominate the lake, preventing its waters never
freeze, even in the most rigorous winters, except at the edges, where
they accumulate frost.

There is no report that the total freezing occurred only twice in the eighth and ninth centuries.
The storms of the lake are terrible and sometimes fatal, but the
phenomena of calm and violence, flood and decreases in volume, occur
and occur extremely quickly.

Forty-two rivers flowing into the banks of Lake Geneva, soft side setentrional sandy, rocky, steep
and heavily steep side of Savoy. Of these the most considerable rivers are the Rhône, of course,
that alone amounts to as many others, and Dranzer (not to be confused with the Dranzer tributary
of the Rhone), river after the rough ride Alps Mountains, flows between Thonon and Evian. The
same Rhône is the only outlet of the lake, running away as a wide ribbon lazuli, at the height
of 368 meters above sea level, across from Geneva, of which circumstance
derives its name from the city, according to the etymology Celtic
gin , output, and v, rio.

It's so huge mass of granite and limestone sand and silt that accumulates
in the Leman Rhone, towards entry and exit, which every day grow dangerous
banks near Geneva, and the waters recede from Villanueva, emerging
alluvial plain at the top, while the waves invade the shore setentrional
or the canton of Vaud.

It is curious to contrast the upper and lower Rhône: the first, throwing on their overflowing
lake basin sludge ash, the second purified out of the lake and clear, as if to symbolize the purity
of morals and clarity of the free institutions of Geneva and Vaud. This circumstance, which also shows in
other lakes, like those of Brienz and Thun, is explained by the existence, at bottom, a purifying
substance and reactive dye that works as powerful.