 Is not it better, however, take care of my finances in holy peace, and try to be
a good citizen, useful and active member of the social body, and a nice gentleman and entertaining? Now
that there is little fool or rascal is not a wise goal or governor of the town or a major character,
now, that all men are forever throwing speeches scientific societies, in clubs, assemblies
and other light sources, is not should be some who go to salons for the poor women are not
left alone, with no one to talk and entertain a little? You see if I have reason to follow away
from politics. As for the other council capital from you, I have nothing to object. In fact,
I married, but I do not want to marry to get married. To get that fearful union, that only death
breaks, I find women whom you trust and love, and whose spirit is open to me and show me that
can be durable, strong, holy, intimate communion with him. Let you find that woman and I will
point married.

- Sorry to tell you, Richard - said the Countess - that everything you're saying is heap of
sophistry and extravagance. If I indeed, and certainly not I, that Politics is only a means
to thrive in most of those engaged in it, more blame even the selfish who will not intervene
in politics because they are doing quite well. Still must presume that the materially seeking
is also seeking personal gain applause, glory, and feel moved by the desire to do good to everyone,
after all is not incompatible with his singular good, but the lazy, cold-hearted, the unbeliever, who,
not and because it does not need to bother thrive, because it is not involved in anything, and
do not know rather than censor everything, and says a thousand wrongs and no remedy to one
of the latter, I say, not no soul, the generous and benevolent that is, that lends itself to
assume anything good. The latter is worse and more despicable than the politicians interested
hustler assets. Pursued; works to end, and it's worth, and perhaps does good general, or try
to do, at the expense of fatigue and danger, when it seeks also, as is lawful and natural,
his own aggrandizement and profit.