 

We knew it, like everyone else, for photography and printmaking, we had told many times with his finger
on the paper the very elegant stone shells that cover its long facade ..... But look at the original
building, with its color and size to form full view of her grace and beauty. Must see, for example,
the shadow projected by the bulky natural shells, hurt by the sun on the golden stone polished
wall: we must see the four beautiful windows, two of them very similar to mullioned Arabs,
who interrupt long stretches of those plain walls: we have to see those corners, and most correct
sharp edge, as if they were of burnished steel, and which stand, a field in the air, beautiful
stone shields, which are so many beauties art: must see, in short, those other big iron shells
covering their turn, by means of nails, the great door, and the beautiful ironwork of those melodramatic
Gates (pardon the adjective), and Royal Shield that great on the façade, and all aristocratic
and pious profiles ennoble outside .....-- already so poetic palace I said fifteenth century.
This was revealed by its architecture, which is set decadent Gothic platerescos details, and they
also indicate the yoke and the sheaf of arrows, special flag of the Catholic Kings, who are mentioned
in the Royal Shield.

The shell that holds all the building mean that it was built was a
knight Santiago and had been or had made a vow to go on pilgrimage
to Compostela, and shields with five lilies that adorn the back corners
of the palace and prove that from Santiago that belonged to the powerful
and enlightened family Maldonados of Salamanca.

And indeed, the Casa de las Conchas Maldonados was first of the lords of Barbalos, then the
Marquis of Valdecarzana inherited, and today has five times Grandee
of Spain, Conde de Santa Coloma, as the Count of Amayuelas.

* * *

By the way, and pardon the digression, Francisco Maldonado, the famous community member, partner Bravo
and Padilla, the slain the great box Gisbert, did not belong to the main branch mentioned family,
which was boss, though not the owner of the Casa de las Conchas a D. Pedro Maldonado and Pimentel,
also affects the cause of the Communities, which I seems appropriate to say some things here,
of all known, if there is someone who does neglected, which is not happening to me for many
hours .....

Is evident that Salamanca Segovia went to the aid of the mayor Ronquillo, like most all Castilian
towns. Salamanca began in the thing for a big riot (undoubtedly Corrillo exploded in the Grass!),
during which people burned the house butler the terrible Fonseca, archbishop of Santiago, knocked
many others, and pulled the rods to the authorities. At this juncture, the powerful D. Pedro
Maldonado and Pimentel, believing that victorious rebels could not do anything good in Salamanca,
and yes it would look much going to the aid of the Communards, formed with them a host flood,
and led to fight against the Imperials. The Salamanca in different sessions dealt with various
fortune, they finally declared fully adversely Villalar fields. Beside Pimentel Maldonado, or rather,
in the ranks of his people, fought there as well another Maldonado, something relative and his
son of Salamanca, and both were taken prisoner after his defeat were .-- then sentenced to death
the principal leaders or heads of Communal, but as the D. Pedro Pimentel Maldonado had kinship
with the famous Count de Benavente, consiguióse Maldonado and the other, known by the street
from the Moors, died in his place with Bravo and Padilla, as if this great trick might dazzle
the public ..... even in times when there were no newspapers .-- And after the imperial happened
after to save a few months locked Pimentel Maldonado, diéronse realized that nobody had been
deceived by the substitution referred to and had to cut his throat too, I think Simancas, a
year after his namesake .-- On the way to the illustrious D. Pedro trocar a year to live forever
and has enjoyed popularity, and still very much enjoy time, poor memory D. Francisco, and the
high honor to be included in the Schedule Gisbert.

So let us return to the Casa de las Conchas.

* * *

The door was open: call, however, and we responded .....--¿ What to do such trouble, knowing, as
we knew for photography and printmaking, the patio was beautiful?

Excuse me Mr. Conde de Santa Coloma, the party that we sneak in rondón was at home, under the protection
of our good intentions .....

And what we saw patio! - His style could be described as mixed Gothic and Moorish: the general
lines Mudejar had more than anything else: in the windows and other details predominate Gothic .--
In one or another sort, everything was there, handsome, gorgeous
and the best taste, causing real surprise neatness and thoroughness
of execution.

Suffice to say that the hard stone resembled braided hemp rope as
if it were, and even drafts of lace, linen like .....

Gladly we later
led our exploration, but we did not dare to So interesting and we
had left that house as we entered it, full of respect his noble and
religious character, and admiration to its artistic.

* * *

Exceedingly disadvantageous for arrogantísima Church of the Jesuits (which, as I said, stands opposite
the Casa de las Conchas) is the transition from one building to another. Everything the chivalrous
Gothic palace has fine, delicate and spiritual, it is of heavy, corporeal merely rude and the
great Greco-Roman temple erected there the Society of Jesus. And yet still was under such a disadvantage,
if the pagan style Catholic church is distinguished for its purity
and correctness ..... (Which, then, there would be a matter of taste
or school between Classical and Romantic), but it happens that this
sumptuous Baroque church is within its own style, because he sinned
from the beginning against the traditional rules and then suffered
the pernicious influence of the worst days of neogentílica architecture.

But

what weary of explaining what you already have your name? - The Church of the Company is a new issue,
highly characteristic, which is now called in Architecture Schools Jesuit, well exceeding in majesty
and beauty to many erected the disciples of Loyola in Spain, Portugal and America.

In short: the temple of which we only great for the material grandeur of size and the treasures
they represent so many deformed rocks as they are used in great steps in a vast cover in two
tough and colorful towers, a huge dome crowned by towering dome, and countless statues, pins,
badges, balls, moldings, balconies and windows that all there on that front, and all gigantic,
out of touch, huge .....

The Church and Association of the Company was founded by Philip III and Margaret of Austria.
Both buildings occupy over 20,000 square meters. To build, or is to doze the land on which stand,
two churches were demolished and three city blocks, eliminating two whole streets .-- Certainly
the Casa de las Conchas found himself in danger of coming too the ground, and if such attack
is not consummated, debióse, according to some, the civic courage and traditional culture
of the children of Salamanca, and, on the advice vulgar, to the inadmissible a certain humorous
and unseemly condition, I do not believe come to be formulated .....

In the College there is room for 300 missionaries, and all the halls,
classrooms and other facilities of a real university.

In short: a doorman told us, as the supreme commendation, that the keys of the house weigh ten and
nine Spanish arrobas .....--¡ What is this aesthetic criterion stale!

The interior of the church is not so great in size or as ostentatious way presumes outside. Doric,
and only vulgar rich retablos Churrigueresque is cold and insignificant. Only there called attention
to the high altar, so huge colossal and complicated in its structure. It can be said to be a
storm of pine and gold the pair that a mutiny against the architectural rules. In the shafts
of the do not know whether to call columns, leafy vines entangled are natural size, with their
corresponding clusters; all this gold and then polished.

The gigantic statues of the four Evangelists, which also part of the composition, seems to cross a
desert on windy day: And turns are so inflated their clothes!

Kneeling in the middle of that lonely temple pilgrim saw a beautiful, too beautiful penitent clean
and elegant, or at least to excite ideas of penance. We supported on the staff, hung the hat on
his broad back Caryatid, and were fixed in altar a large and bright eyes like two black suns
.....-- Comedy or tragedy (I believe devoutly that would be the last),
that attitude, that holy garment, place action and our own circumstances
will command respect, and not cure us of ask anyone who was the pilgrim,
and we're back to talking about her since then .....

And remember
of the best home that the Jesuits had in Spain .-- This sentence is
not me belongs: it is late and I heard the Father Manrique .-- For
my part I should add that Salamanca such a relief to San Ignacio de
Loyola, because (as discussed below), the celebrated founder of the
Society of Jesus was tried and was imprisoned in the illustrious city
of Tormes.

* * *

Free our attention from the powerful appeal of the Casa de las Conchas
and the Church and School of the Jesuits, he returned to look at the
poetic and artistic character of that historic neighborhood.

But what amazed us because it was not so much an air of old-age and romantic melancholy, as monumental
greatness continued deploying our eyes.

Company Street is called that starts in the buildings above, and so
she and all the squares, streets and alleys immediate, consisting
of a succession of tall buildings stone, or is in an unbroken series
of palaces, churches, convents, schools and houses, we instilled respect
and veneration.

Everything was there monument as in some districts of Ferrara, Pisa and Florence. Everywhere alzábanse
history patterns military devotion, aristocracy or science, according to the architecture and purpose
of each building .-- Oh! We could not deny it: we were in Athens in Spanish: Girl were in Rome.

Everywhere stone, silence and solitude! But this alone was not as fearful as the ruins or that of
the cemeteries was placid and majestic as that of the cloisters. Certainly no one went, or
seem to have happened long ago, by those very noble streets: very
certain that high grass growing between paving slabs and cobbles of
.....; I do not know whether the presence of both adorned coat of
arms as corners, walls, doors, gates, balconies and gates of temples,
schools and palaces, or if they were well preserved even the smallest
details of every page of architectural stone, or if the nature and
form Christian of those monuments, made them appear alive, subsisting,
as militants the chapels which remain closed bell, as the dumb convents
whose goal burns evening light before the image of Mary, or as the
naked trees of winter, when is that its branches bend but not break,
the momentum of the hurricanes .....

Ah! yes ..... Salamanca is not
an age or race dead last, as happens with many Gentile cities rich
in monuments: Salamanca still exists with all its old vitality although
such an unfavorable season.

And there, as he has entirely expired civilization to which he owed his life, because the ideals
that are noble symbol churches and schools, are prevail in the nation who rebuilt the Catholic Kings,
because, if not within the old walls kissing the Tormes, at least in the brand new hotels
in the widening of Madrid, perpetuate, with its ancient armorial bearings, the aristocratic families
who built those palaces that we were watching, because still, finally, the Christian religion,
the Spanish monarchy, the nobility of Castile and even defended democratic homelands Laws Communities
that is, all the springs of greatness Salamanca.

If all this disappear, Salamanca, keep it well-preserved monuments, would not be a corpse, as
Nineveh or Pompeii.

But enough of speeches, and list them, Siqueira quickly, things we saw that morning before returning
to the inn.

* * *

In a corner next to the College of the company read in letters of gold and marble headstone
that the great poet lived there Meléndez Valdés.

Below find a tile called the Plaza de San Benito, which, rather than square seemed the sound of a monastery
.-- Nor were there people.

The only thing that was there was a beautiful church, consecrated to the Holy which gives its
name to that place, church, according to knew then, had served in
addition to the family cemetery Maldonado, when it was lawful sleeping
the big sleep at the foot of the altar, or whether in times of non-We
placed them all hygiene.

After finding many homes were Gothic or platerescas, whose covers
are all handsome were large shields that indicate the family to which
they belonged or had belonged .-- The sun of Solís, the lilies of
the Maldonados five, and, above all, the stars of Fonseca more abundant
than any other flag.

And here I must point out that the house of Fonseca was for centuries the most powerful of Salamanca,
and in the civil and ecclesiastical matters, and that apart from their great warriors, they
made celebrated throughout Christendom that scathing Archbishop of Santiago and Patriarch of
Alexandria to talk so much about the stories, and another archbishop of Santiago and Toledo,
his son, whom Salamanca had the very important foundations, as we shall in due course.

In the plaza of San Benito to spend another lonely no less monumental, called the Eagle, being
noted that, as we did not find anyone who could point the way, had to be guided by the sun's position,
in order to reach the hotel soon, as would be lunchtime ..... in its rules and in our stomach.

In the Eagle Square stands a beautiful building Greco-Roman, that colleagues would famous church
of the Augustinians, that both had heard at Madrid .-- Not for a moment penetrate it occurred
to us, but we consideration for the afternoon or the next day, to study with due detail.

But we fell into another danger, and the more apretábamos step, major
architectural wonders We went on the road trying to stop .....

Eagle's
Square we pass to the Monterrey, and we met face to face with the
magnificent palace of this name, which is one of the wonders of Salamanca,
as you can see in the Photographers showcases the town and court,
and served as a model for the Pavilion Spanish for the Paris Exhibition
of 1867.

We fled, as well ....., swearing again a few hours after we fled .-- And not only because for lunch
is not cool, but because we were stunned that rapid succession of
emotions, much new beauty, so much poetry, so much history, both as
a portent of various kinds called our attention on all sides and at
the same moment .-- We needed a rest, to some notes, download our
memories !.....

We come, finally, the hotel .....-- And considering
I now that my readers will also need some rest, get point to this
chapter, leaving for lunch following the talk and other interesting
things, none of which (by the brackets) will nothing to do with architecture.
