 A time not to have lived longer after these events
solemn and impressive, nothing would have known this notice. It was all for it the result an inveterate
habit. Otherwise, the table view is offered around the deathbed, while his father's aide to
die well, it would have been quite touching to hasten death. Cecilia and Nemesia on one side,
Clara and Jose Dolores sign of other an officer of tailoring Uribe arrived at the time and the
clerk at the foot, all kneeling, muttering devout prayers and lighting the sad scene with a lantern
or a spark plug, formed the group interesting, original and worthy of an inspired artist brush.

A
sad conclusion of the ceremony, all present, that more than less
experienced inside a kind of relief, because it is generally believed
that brings on death.

Even the patient seemed revived, in view of the right arm pulled from under the sheets and began to be
tempted by various parts of the bed, as if looking for something that had been lost. Cecilia's
hand stopped him and asked:

- What do you want, Mommy?

- To you, my heart, "replied the grandmother with a lot of work.

This tender application, this exit unexpectedly blew up the tears
of Cecilia, who, for that the grandmother did not impress, he turned
his face to the other side.

- Well, here I am your worship, he said,
squeezing the hand of the patient.

- Do not you see, she added with
feeling.

Is this so escuro ...!

- I turned off the lights for his mercy.

- Are you alone, he asked the old woman after a long silence.

- Yes, Mommy.

Tell the truth, because hearing it, prudently retired to the room
the two women; and men had not returned from the church, where they
had gone to accompany the DSA.

- I would like ... tell you ... thing,
"said Josefa signal very slowly, after another long pause.

- Well,
say, mama, say.

I am listening.

- Come. Why did you go, my life?

- I do not go away. No. I'm near from his mercy.

- Poor Charito! What will become of her? I'll go first ... I'm leaving.

- Jesus, Mommy! Do not worry your mercy now thinking about it. It hurts, a lot of damage. Sosiéguese.

-
Poor! But you ... breaks ... relationships ... the gentleman ... That is your ...

- "My what, Mommy?, Startled and asked Cecilia instance, as the grandmother took in finish.
"My what, Mommy of the soul? Speak, say, for the Blessed Virgin, do not let me in this terrible
indecision. Is my enemy? Will my torment? My unfaithful lover? My what?

- Is your ... your ... your ... t. .., Josefa kept repeating signal, each time at intervals longer
and lower pitch, until the mysterious sound of the syllable became gloomy murmur and murmur in a mere
movement of the lips, which did not last long either. Disease had its crisis. Had expired.

Cecilia had never seen anyone die, so to be convinced by the touch of her grandmother encouraged
not just when the most vivid thought, the horror rather than grief tore a terrible cry and
deprived him of sense. Clara and Nemesia sign came, and found hugging in bed with the corpse,
which had trouble separating. Fair was his huge pain. Since that time lacked a time his protector,
his wife, his young friend his relative, his beloved mother, and to more despair, remorse quedole
Ever After that in the confusion had forgotten to put in the hand of the dying candle soul, prepared
so early for that same case.

The duration of the disease Josefa Alarcon, was delivering medical Cecilia, always without saying
who came word, different amounts of money, the same as it received with one hand and the other
went to Jose Dolores Pimienta, effectively created the Butler and cashier. He ran, in effect for that
short time (very short for those who longed be repeated occasions to approach pay Cecilia
and every day new services) all expenses that caused the sick, and dead, adjusted to the known
beadle Barroso preparations for the funeral.

Being very close the house of Avocado Street to receiving visitors who come to offer his condolences
to Cecilia, and to celebrate the funeral, provided Pepper's body was moved to the living room
where he and his sister lived in Pump Street, where body was present at ten o'clock at night
until three pm the following day.

No catafalque was erected, dressed in the habit dead Mercedarian straw color, belting the usual black
belt of the Order of Mercy, and tucked into his box lined with black cloth, was placed in a litter
common among large wax candles and silver candlesticks.

The teacher Uribe, with his officers and the many friends and Pepper,
watched over all night and when the litter burial led to shoulder,
taking turns in groups of four to The cemetery, located in the small
suburb of San Lazaro, the end of this road name.

The only incident that somehow marró the solemnity of the act, was that in a few words will
refer. The funeral home was far from the cemetery about half a league, and the shortest path
not driving through the streets of the population, but by winding paths, shaded luxurious
trees from houses and gardens, which then occupied the area throughout
the vast area today Monserrate titled.

Where stands the modern church which gives its name, suddenly joined the funeral procession, seeking
to be confused with it, a stranger and poor black degustation, which looked tired a long run. After
he appeared to just another horse in military uniform, jacket cloth, with two gold epaulets
and cavalry saber. He was young and brave gesture.

No beating in tiny, swooped upon the fugitive, and, pointing his weapon at the chest, cried:
- Date, Malanga, or I'll kill you.

- Tonda!

Tonda! cried the of the party who knew him by sight or treatment.

Caught thus Malanga between the tip of the sword and the litter that was the deceased had no choice
but to surrender to the mercy of the captor, who, without dismounting,
he tied side by side threw him forward, and saluting the military
with air gun, told the mourners: - Gentlemen, I hope I waive the hard
time.

He had command of His Excellency the Captain General, to catch this rogue, living or dead, and
I've met. To follow the funeral. Health, gentlemen.

The first stop for the funeral procession made a big gate that faces the blue sea Atlantic House
of Charity, so that the Charity Children of both sexes sing one for the soul of the deceased, by
paying a gold coin, as alms.

     The second stop was in front
      of the gate
      of the cemetery,
      under the graceful
      arch of input to the chaplain hiciese coffin sprinkling holy water,
before consigning the tomb.

         When running this final act and always sad, companions in attitude
reverently, they remained standing and uncovered, forming groups around
the pit.

José Dolores Pimienta, Uribe and some others threw a handful of earth on the coffin which was
in life and Alcon Josefa Alarcon, no less distinguished for her beauty than for their Unfortunately,
his ardent love of mother and religious practices of his last years and the first who acted as chief
mourner, to thank his friends and fire, could not avoid to be a dry eye, perhaps because he came
to mind at that moment the box of his adored Cecilia, transfixed in pain and fainting in the
arms of Nemesia.

CHAPTER III

What is life? For lost I gave it, When the yoke Slave, As a brave shook.

J. DE ESPRONCEDA

In mid-January the field again Gamboa family: the servants by sea, the masters by land. Leonardo
arrived a few days later.

The first thing Dona Rosa in the city was giving leave or paper to Mary Rule seek accommodation
or master. The role (and is called par excellence in Cuba) in question, signed by Don Candido,
prayed more or less as follows: "I give my slave role María Regla so that within ten days of the accommodation
or find love in the city. It Creole rational, intelligent and agile, healthy, robust, no disease
has ever experienced, has no blemish known, it knows plain sewing,
washing and ironing understand, care for children and the sick.

It paper gives because she asked. No more masters have known that he was born and which now
sold.

Havana, etc. "

Released the subject, Dona Rosa judged of great importance, took care
of runaway black.

He blamed all the fault of the event to Butler, which is why at the first opportunity went to his
beard with the ironic inquisition:

- I guess you have made many
inquiries into the whereabouts of Dionysus.

- Yes, my lady Dona Rosa,
many, many steps, "he said pregnant, then lied like a Turk.

Only these black ... we are the same dianche. Crouch know ... Go if you know!

- Let's see what has brought you to clean.

- Not much, my lady, almost nothing. It said he died of a stab, y.
.. stop You count.

Because not having risen summary of the fact that I know of, or arrested the perpetrator, nor
buried the dead, I assumed, well-founded assumption seems to me that the stab was mere rumor,
a hoax, perhaps spread it to disorient Dionisio and follow him around the track. I tell you,
my lady Dona Rosa, who know a lot of these black a lot ...

- I remain aware, "said the lady in her indignation. Then he added: Then it must be displayed
that black.

- Accurate, said Don Meliton.

- Dead or alive has to be somewhere, he said Dona Rosa.

- That I say, "said Butler.

- Nothing says you worthwhile, "said Rosa bothered. How is it that has not occurred put a avisito
in the Journal?

- Well yes I have thought, Dona Rosa, said the man, happy to be vindicated. It occurred to me
more than once, many. Yes, ma'am, I have been occurred.

- Then, why did not put on the ground?

- Then there is the difficulty of garlic, my lady Dona Rosa. I do not know how to write these
notices. I have never been fatter. Natural thing, in my town had no newspapers.

- The easiest thing in the world. You Can not remember the address of Dionysus? Does your figure?
Does your packaging? Creole Black, dark rechocho, marked by smallpox, round face, large inflows,
large mouth, flat nose, good teeth, bulging eyes, short neck, aristocratic air, office cook, read,
be given for free, missing from the house of their masters after
that date; there will be a good reward to capture and deliver it in
that part, being responsible to damages, etc., etc. All as we read
every day in the Journal under the heading or it's called, of ...
Runaway slaves.

- Ya, ya, I think it said all that, Dona Rosa.

Word is cute, but cójase pen and paper please ... Declare without shame, my lady, who gives me
card on the pretext of writing for newspapers. Sure, I was not born to hack, and not born to married,
the saying goes, do not fool women.

- Very little water drowns you, Don Meliton. Dare you to repeat what I just said?

- I think so. I lack talent, memory, spare me.

- Okay. But that does not forget, now you are going to print the Journal.

It is on this street, past the gates of Rosario, a hall house with
two windows mirror, where before they played lottery tickets ... There.

Enter you and look to Don Toribio Arazoza, editor.

You can not go wrong: a man of ordinary facade, pudgy, bearded ... Almost never shaved, always
laughs with their lips, not to his face ... You know what I mean.

Well, it tells you that as I said to Denis, he knows how to write ads on runaway slaves.

Just came Don Meliton, Rosa raised her eyes and clasped hands to heaven and cried: - Ah! What
a stupid Butler has my husband!

By a miracle walking on two feet.

Around it the press, he sent the lady in a wheel of hire, road Cerro,
to inquire whether he had been led to the deposition of black Dionisio
Maroons had established the Consulate of Agriculture and Commerce
of Havana and Isla de Cuba, next the elegant site playground for the
Count of Fernandina.

There was not the fugitive, for the simple reason that they referred
only to the general deposit of those blacks rural farms, elevations
in the mountains, was caught living with dogs, and that ignorance
or malice, suddenly could not figure out the name of their rightful
owners.

As fruitless inquiries began to spread despair in the mind of Rosa, where came to his house a
black military dress with the utmost courtesy to ask for a hearing
a few minutes.

I measured it from top to bottom with a questioning look and said:

- Tonda?

- Very humble servant of the lady, "he said in an arc of her slender body.

- What is available? Rosa would be asked.

- Is not the lady a warning about a black fled? ...

- Yes.

- What do you call the dark? excuse the lady ...

- Dionisio.

- Dionisio Jaruco?

- No, Gamboa, he is my slave. Well, as Jaruco Creole is not surprising that seeks go through
that name.

- The same as I suspected. In court dance that gave black people out there the Two days before
Christmas Eve, I met a black that Jaruco Dionisio said. Your coordinates correspond closely
with that given in the Journal, and I think I will not be difficult to catch, if Mrs. I grant permission
to search.

- Would give two ounces of gold you capture, three, four, any money.

Committed a great need and desire to punish and deserves. I fear resist. He's handsome check.

- Do not be sorry for that lady. I'm going to bring moored alongside.

- My royalty is safe.

- I do not take the money, it takes me only that they who should pay that. I meet with the orders of my
boss, His Excellency Mr. Francisco Dionisio Vives, who, with the approval of His Majesty the King,
may God keep you many years, has commissioned me to turn to offenders of color.

Mary left early for home rule in the streets of San Ignacio, called the gate the best-looking,
he sent the paper to the lady, and sitting in the doorway, while resting came the response, invariably
reduced the housekeeper had many servants and did not need any rent. You had to denigrate
people of color from serving another person the master, that kind of idiosyncrasy Rule Mary had no suspicion
but not after many disappointments and deceptions similar to that just mentioned. Not really
entertained her intention or expectation of tenant or master, both
the highly repugnant, estimating either end as the greatest misfortune
that could ensue.

If it had been women able to show the face at first sight the emotions of the spirit, the more myopic
would have seen how red with embarrassment each time he drew the role of breast to give the
servant came to open the door.

His intention, hope, more vehement desire of his soul to seek the return to Havana Dionisio
was looking for to join him if he was alive, or killing if he had died. So, far from feeling it,
experiencing a sort of secret delight whenever the returned accompanied by a paper not dry
and decisive. But the time was that she had been granted on short, fixed, and had taken several
days in vain formalities, if fulfilled, and it showed landlord nor master, what would his wife, a
woman of character so strong and bitter with his slaves?

In these critical moments, his daughter Dolores revealed the substance of the conversation
that Mrs. Rosa had just had with Tonda, whose name and deeds went on everyone's lips, and goad
for fear of losing her beloved once Dionisio, decided to spend the few days the fatal period of rest,
the consequence of which was already the sole purpose of its existence.

Taking language, early one morning went to market in the Plaza Vieja, one of two that existed
within the walls of the city. Was that a swarm of animals and so diverse, people of all colors
and conditions, which prevailed black; enclosure narrow tired, unkempt, damp and dark, circumscribed
by four rows of houses, perhaps the most affected population, all, or most, of two bodies,
with broad low high-ceilinged portals, which supported wooden balconies.

At

the foot of one of the pillars of those relied Maria de Regla and
spent a long time looking in brooding silence and stirred the crowded
market square.

Everything was new for it.

In the center stood a stone fountain consists of a bowl and four
dolphins intermittently discharging muddy water jets and thick, however,
anxious collected barrels black water carriers to sell the city at
the rate of average real silver one.

Radios that were based center or trails, nothing straight by the
way, in several directions positions marked by pleasure, even with
the floor, in appearance without order or ranking no, because next
to one that sold vegetables or vegetables, was another of live birds,
or fruit, or hunting, or edible roots, or cage birds, or vegetables,
or river fish and seafood, still in the basket or pot pot fisherman,
or fresh meat served in ordinary tables mounted on their heads in
barrels or inserts scissors, and all breathing moisture strewn leaves,
peels of fruits and green corn, feathers and mud without a roof or
an awning, not a decent face, and black farmers, ill-clothed ones,
almost naked others whiffs of various scents everywhere, a shrill
and unpleasant gibberish, and above the blue sky seen through a skylight,
which appeared one or two Flying cloudscape, imitating, and transparent
gauze, sometimes invisible wings of angels.

They entered the square and out of her black and black, these with
the purpose of providing Daily house of their masters, to procure
those with the wholesale price of meat, vegetables or fruits that
resold at retail within the city or its neighborhoods outside: this
traffic, by the way that, quite lucrative in many cases.

There was something about the new dress Mary wore Prussian Rule,
in the way of bringing the silk handkerchief that was watching the
morbid half of Bayajá shoulders and that was covered raisins; in black
shiny face and bare arms and turned, announcing health and strength,
in the general appearance of an outsider, in sadness or shyness to
her face and attitude showed, there was something, say, in all this,
which could not fail to attract attention, even indifferent people
and very busy with her own chores. 

But all, any curious, compassionate
or naturally any observer, and entering the square, and leaving it,
he cast a glance through the former nurse, and followed long. His
attitude seems contemplative (in any way his suit) was suspect at
first view that the disease afflicted a stranger, or, being too novice
or short-tempered, not just reach out and ask for alms for the love
of God to the passer. Any of these reasons was enough to cool off
compassion and curiosity in the classroom of people coming to the
market. Only a thick black, with a tendency to obesity, and of frank
and cheerful countenance, that came with a board full of meat to the
head, had enough resolution to stop before the wretched stranger,
asking for a rough way, more benevolent expression:

- Ah! Critiana!
What is there for? What have you lost?

- My husband replied flatly
María de Regla.

The question unannounced not had time to hide what
was more fixed in thought.

- Your Mario! amazed said the butcher.
Can échatelo to search.

Mimicked with this said of the boys in the
game of blind man's buff.

- In that I go (the former nurse said with
a doleful sigh) long ago.

- How much?

- Ugh! About twelve years.

-
Eye