 When it does not sink the world events such,
probably will not ever sink ... Beyond the stables tried again with reasons and cries soften
the hearts of his keepers. But they complied with an order the head, and if not met, they would
throw Respice medium. Almudena silent, walking agarradito at the foot of Benin, and seemed disgusted
with the collection and deposit of begging driving.

If I cried the poor candidate, not least the sky was crying, agreeing with her dark sadness, as
the drizzle began to fall at the time of collection grew to be heavy rain, which put it head to toe loss.
The clothes of both dripping beggar; Almudena mushroom hat seemed the top piece of the source
of the Tritons, little and to have lacked moss. Benina lightweight footwear, shattered by the
long walk of those days, it was falling to pieces in the ponds and bogs in which they got. When
arrived in San Bernardino, thought the old lady better be barefoot. 'Amri - Almudena told when pierced
the door sad Municipal Asylum - yorar not you ... Here it tigo me ... Yorar not you ... contented
me ... Soup, bread give us ...».

In his desolation, he would not answer Benina. Gladly would have given him a stick. How had to
take over that bum of reason with which the unhappy woman complained of luck? Who but she would
understand the distress of his wife, his girlfriend, her sister, and night of anxiety that
would happen, ignorant of what happened? And if she did the favor of release the next day,
what reasons, what lies explain his long absence, his sudden disappearance? What could I say or
what his invention out of fertile imagination? Nothing nothing: it would be best discard all lie,
revealing the secret of his begging, nothing shameful indeed. But it could happen that I did
not believe Dona Francisca, and be broken up the bond of friendship that united them as old, and if
the lady was really angry, throwing on their side, Nina would die of grief, because I could
not live without Doña Paca, whom he loved his good qualities and very nearly their defects.
Anyway, after thinking about all this, and when placed in a large room, choked, fetid, where there
was already a fifty of elderly men and women, ended lie in the loving arms of resignation,
saying: "Whatever God wants. When you go home tell the truth, and if the lady is live for when
I come and do not believe me, I do not believe, and if he gets angry, they get angry; and if I
fired, I bounce, and if I die, I die. "

XXXII

Though Nina does not think and say, well be understood that the distress and dismay Dona Paca on
that sad night surpassed anything that might show the narrator. As time went on, but the maid came
back home, growing anxiety of the housekeeper, who, if at first he missed his partner for the lack in
the material that was soon grew restless, thinking about the misfortune that would have happened:
fuck car, eg, or sudden death in the street. Frasquito sought to reassure the good, but to no
avail. And the old man's faded silent when his fellow would say,
"But if it never happened this, ever, wanted to Ponte!

Not once has failed to home in so many years. "

Serious difficulties for formal dinner, and nothing that the girls ahead cordonera is the informal
offer to replace the missing maid. Doña Paca Truth lost all appetite, and the same, or slightly
less, was happening to their host. But as had no choice but to take something to support the
forces, both were handed an egg beaten with wine and a few pieces of bread. Sleeping, not speaking.
The lady was counting the hours, half and quarter of the night watches in the neighborhood, and
did more than measure the passage end to end, listening to the sounds of the ladder. Ponte not
to be outdone: gallantry forced him to not lie down while his friend and protector was awake,
and to reconcile the obligations of the knight with his ailing fatigue, beheaded a couple
of little dreams in a chair. To adopt a view that was violent, with pillow arms, crossed over the
back, and sleep is hung her head, of what occurred torticollis tremendous
next morning.

At the dawn of God, overcome the fatigue Doña Paca, dormidita stayed on the couch. Spoke in dreams,
and his body shook from time to time with nervous tremors. Awoke shocked, believing he thieves
at home, and on a clear day, with the void of absence Nina, I was more sad and lonely night. According
Frasquito, which in this thought wisely, no trace seemed safer to be informed of the gentlemen in
whose house served Benin assistant. I had thought about her countrywoman also the previous
evening, but as ignorant the number of the house of D. Romualdo across the street from the
Loam, determined not to take investigations. In the morning, having given the goalkeeper to inquire
the whereabouts of the missing servant, he was sent with the order,
and time again saying that in any goal of such street gave reason.

And all these, not in the house rather than some other cooked the day before, almost vinegary already,
and crusts of bread. Thanks to the neighbors aware of the conflict so severe offered the illustrious
widow some food: East, garlic soup, that, fried cod, the other an egg and half a bottle of
bully. There was nothing to eat, making a brave, because nature does not hold: it must live,
although the soul object, fond her friend's death. Slow passing hours of the day, and both Ponte
and his compatriot could not attention away from the noise of footsteps sounded on the stairs.
But many disappointments suffered, that at last, exhausted and hopeless, they sat facing each
other, silent, with rest and severity of sphinxes, and looking at the solution tacitly conferred
enigma to the divine will.

Already know the whereabouts of Nina, or the reasons for his absence, when God deigned to make
them known by the media and ways that never reaches our forecast.

The twelve would be and when we heard a loud bell. Lady Ronda and Algeciras heartthrob jumped, like
rubber dolls in their seats. "No, not her - said Dona Paca with great disappointment -. Nina
not so named. "

And Frasquito wanted out the door she stopped him with his observation
very point: "There you go, Ponte, which could be one of those geese
that come to the store give me a hard time.

To open the child. Caledonia, run to open, and find it: if it is one that we Nina brings news
that happens. If someone in the store, tell them I'm not. "

The girl ran, and returned immediately desalted by saying: "Lady, D. Romualdo. "

Effect of great emotional intensity, it was almost frightening. Ponte rolled over several times
top on one foot, and Doña Paca rose and fell back in his chair about ten times saying: "What
happens ... Now we know ... My God, D. Romualdo home! ... In the living room, Celedonia into the
living room ... I will accept the black skirt ... And I have not combed ... With what facade you get!
... Happens, girl ... My black skirt.

"

Between Algeciras and the girl was dressed in a bad way, and haste
will put the clothes backwards.

The lady was impatient, calling them stupid and giving kicking. Finally arranged in any way,
passes a comb through his hair, and went tumbling into the parlor
where waiting for the priest, standing, looking at photographs of
people in the family, only decoration the mean and stay poor.

"Excuse me, Mr. D. Romualdo - Zapata's widow said that the excitement could not be standing,
and had to throw himself into a chair, after the priest kiss the
hand -.

Thanks God I can express to you my gratitude for his unfailing kindness.

-
It's my duty, ma'am "said the cleric ...-- some surprise - and nothing
you to thank me.

- And tell me now, by God - added the lady, so afraid
of hearing bad news, which could hardly talk -; me know soon.

What has become of my poor child? ".

This name rang in the ear of the good priest like a dog that the lady is lost.

"Does not it seem ?...-- told to say something.

- But you do not
know ...?

Ay, ay! It has been a disgrace, and you hide it, for charity.

"

Burst into bitter tears the unhappy lady and the priest remained perplexed
and silent.

"Madam, for pity's sake, do not grieve you ... Will be, or not what you suppose.

- Nina, Nina of my soul!

- Is anyone in your family, your privacy? Tell me ...

- If Mr. D. Romualdo not tell me the truth not to increase my trouble, I'll thank you infinity ...
But it is better to know ... Or do you want to give me the news little by little to impress me less? ...

-
My Lady - said the priest openly impatient, eager to clear things up -. I will not bring you good
news or bad of the person who cries, nor do I know which person is
that, nor on what grounds you to believe me ...

- Excuse me, Mr.
D. Romualdo.

Benina I thought, my maid, my friend and companion rather had suffered a serious accident at
his home in you, or leave it, or on the street, y. ..

- What else? ... Without doubt, Mrs. Dona Francisca Juarez, there is an error in this that
I must fade, telling you my name: Romualdo Kidron. He played for twenty years the vicariate
Santa Maria de Ronda, and I come to express to you, at the express
request of the other executors, the last will of him who was my best
friend, Rafael García of Antrines, God rest in his glory.

"

If Doña Paca see that land opened up and out of her squad hell, and that descuajaraba up the sky,
casting himself legions of angels, and they met each other forming
a huge phalanx glorious and slapstick, not to stay more stunned and
confused.

Testament inheritance! "What he said was true cleric, or a ridiculous, relentless teasing? What
about this subject was a real person or fake image in the sick mind of the unhappy lady? The
language it hit the palate, and looked at D. Romualdo with terrified eyes.

"Not to scare you, ma'am. On the contrary: I have the satisfaction of communicating Dona Francisca
Juarez the end of their sufferings. The Lord, who has proved beyond doubt and more than compliance
and resignation, now wants to reward these virtues, pulling it to you the sad situation that has
lived so many years. "

Dona Paca fell a trickle of tears from every eye, and not manage to utter a word. What would be your
emotion, which surprise and joy that was erased from his mind the image of Benin as if the
absence and loss of this incident was happened many years ago!

"I understand - continued the good priest straightened his body and his chair closer to with
his hand touching the arm of Dona Francisca - I understand your condition
... No passes abruptly bad luck on the well-being, without feeling
a strong jolt.

The opposite would be worse ... And since it is important thing,
which should preferably occupy their attention, talk about it, lady,
leaving for later the other issue that worries ... You should not
strive both by his maid or friend ... I look!

".

This phrase taken back to the spirit of Doña Paca the idea of ??Nina and her mysterious feeling
disappearance.

Noting the look and D. Romualdo benevolent intent and optimistic
led to believe that the good Lord, after dispatching the present case,
we speak of For the elderly, which certainly was not very serious.

Soon the mind of the lady vane quick turn around the idea of ??inheritance, and she grabbed it,
leaving everything else into oblivion, and noting the priest report anxiety, hastened to meet
it.

- Well, you know that poor Rafael passed away on February 11 ...

-
I did not know, no, sir.

God has given you your break ... Ay!

- He was a saint. His only mistake was loathe marriage, ignoring the excellent match that his
friends proposed. The last years he lived in a farmhouse called the
Higueras Juarez ...

- I know.

That farm was my grandfather.

- Exactly: D. Alejandro Juarez ...
Well, as Rafael contracted the disease in Higueras liver which led
to the tomb to the fifty-five years old.

Pity fine fellow, almost as tall as me, lady, with no less vigorous muscle than mine, and a chest
like a bull, and his face brimming with life! ...

- Ah ...

- In our hunts wild boar and deer, never got tired. His pride was stronger than his complexion
very strong. Challenged the showers, hunger and thirst ... Well You
see that oak break like a reed.

A few months after falling ill he could count the bones through the
skin ... it was eating, eating ...

- Ah ...

- And what had resigned
his illness, and how well prepared for death, looking like a sentence
of God, against which there should be protest, but rather a line gay!

Poor Rafael, what piece of angel! ...

- Ah ...

- I no longer lived in Ronda, because he had interests in my town
that forced me to set my residence in Madrid.

But when I learned the seriousness of our beloved friend, I stood
there ... One month I accompanied him and attended ... What a pity
... He died in my arms.

- Ay !...».

These woes were sighs Dona Paca popped out of the soul, like birds escaping from an open cage
on all four sides. With noble sincerity, while petting in his mind the probable inheritance, was
associated with mourning D. Romualdo for the generous Ronda bachelor.

'Well, Madam, died as a devout Catholic after a will ...

- Ah ...

- In which leaves the third of his estate to his niece in the second degree, Clemencia Sopelana
You know? the wife of D. Rodrigo del Quintanar, brother of the Marquis
de Guadalerce.

The two-thirds the intended part of a pious foundation, partly to
improve the situation some of his relatives by family misfortunes,
bad business or other adverse and setbacks, have been less.

You and your children being found in this case, of course which are the most favored, y. ..

-
Ah ... At last God has willed that I would not die without seeing the ignominious end of this
misery. Blessed be a thousand times that gives and takes away the evils, the Just, the Merciful
the Holy of Holies !...».

With this outpouring was in tears the unfortunate Dona Francisca, clasping his hands and putting
knees, the good priest, fearing that such sensitivity ended up in a tantrum, came to the door, clapping
for someone to come ask for a glass of water.

XXXIII

Frasquito himself came to the aid of the water, and D. Romualdo, as
the lady drank and recovered from her emotion, told the deranged knight:
"If I'm correct, I have the honor to talk to D. Francisco Delgado
Ponte ... Algeciras natural ... For many years.

Are you third-degree cousin of Rafael Antrines, whose death will have news?

- Did he die? ... Oh, I did! - Ponte replied very short -. Poor Rafaelito! When I Ronda was in
the year 56, shortly before the fall of Espartero, he was a child, and size. Then we saw in Madrid
two or three times ... He used to come and spend time here in autumn
Real went well, and was a friend of Ustáriz, worked by Rios Rosas
in elections Rivers and Acuña ... Oh poor Rafael!

Great friend, simple and affectionate man, great hunter! ... Congeniábamos in everything except
one thing: he was very rural, very loving rustic life, and I hate the countryside and trees.
I was always a man of populations, large populations ...

- Sit down here - he said D. Romualdo, with such strong slap on an old chair springs, which he arose
a thick cloud of dust.

A moment later, he had heard the luncheon gallant participation in heritage Rafael's cousin, bewildered
by staying in such a way that had to drink, to avoid Faint, let all
the water Dona Francisca.

It is well to note now is the perfect match
between the person of the priest and his Kidron name because of the
stature, strength and even the color could be compared a big cedar
trees that among men, looking at each other's characters, there are
also similarities and relationships. Tallud is cedar, and also beautiful,
noble, wood somewhat brittle, but pleasant and fragrant. For as was
D. Romualdo: Grandon, stocky sunburnt, and at the same time excellent
person, of irreproachable conduct in the church, Hunter, man of the
world to the extent it can be a healing, peaceful genius, persuasive
speech, tolerant of human frailties, charitable, merciful, in short,
procedures orderly arrangement and good as well got along with his
position well off