 

Everyone - the doctor said he had heard the question -. The mercurial tremor few attacks down the
mine.

- Why down? - Candidly asked the girl.

- For the hobby - the doctor said smiling -.

I think it is worth much more to breathe the fresh air, that not down there.

- Sure! I would be anything but mine.

Finally resulted in a square or plaza in the center of which worked
some workers raising an artistic marble pedestal.

- The pedestal
for the statue of the Duke - said the director of mines aloud.

- Ah!

What will be placed around the statue, Duke? "- Cried a few around
the hero.

This shrugged with a gesture of contempt.

- Do not know.

It is a charade that has happened to the casino of the miners.

- Oh, no, Mr. Duke! - Said the director, who really was for the initiative, Custom Llera although
influenced in turn by the Duke -. Oh, no! The people of Riosa wants to give a mark of respect and gratitude
to his staunch protector, which in circumstances criticism has not
hesitated to expose a huge capital buying this discredited establishment
and saving it from ruin.

- How beautiful it is to do well! - Lola
Madariaga said in an agitated voice, posing Salabert extremely sweet
eyes with admiration.

Everyone congratulated him, though many of them knew what to expect about that wonderful detachment.
Works considered a moment and continued after his departure towards the establishment mining.

This is situated at the exit of the town itself. Abroad had the appearance of a some chimneys
small manufacturing giving off black smoke.

He gave no idea of ??its importance colossal.

The entourage came in and walked the fence where work is performed
auxiliary mining, which are also most of the units, carpentry, locksmithing,
cabinet room and the engineers.

What caught their attention was strongly appearance sad, sick, of
the operators.

All were marked with a stamp of decrepitude, that forced Cotorraso
Countess suddenly say:

- Here, apparently, do not work more than
the old.

The director smiled.

- They look old, but they are not, ma'am.

- But if everyone has the wrinkled skin, sunken eyes and dull!

...

- Never mind, none of them reaches forty years. Those who work here are miners no longer be
downloaded. Employees abroad, but with less pay.

- What you need to be a long time to get mine like that? - Asked Ramon.

- A little, little - "murmured the director, and then added: - There where you see them, still
I escaped the slightest slip of the mine .... The outside wage is so small!

- What they make

- A penny .... The maximum a fifty.

Entered on the fence followed by distillation. The Duke went ahead with the English engineers responsible
for proposing the reforms needed to give impetus to the establishment. In this Nearby are
the ovens and large deposits of cinnabar. Visited stores Quicksilver and the place where weighed.
All operators were shaking more or less and give the same signs of decrepitude.

The director suggested I go see the hospital. Some were disgusted, but Lola Madariaga, who never
missed an opportunity to showcase their charitable feelings, broke
up the march and followed most of the ladies and some gentlemen.

Others stayed.

The Duke ignored for a while about his guests, listening carefully
to the engineers, who were writing them what they thought about the
business.

The miners' hospital was outside the fence, near the cemetery, no doubt The sick were used to the idea
of ??death and also that if they were not powerful to kill the mercury vapor, they assisted
in the task the sweet fumes mortis. It was an old mansion, cracked,
damp and gloomy.

The ladies did not shrink, delicate plants to put in it, shame. The doctor, who had undertaken
to prove, put them in the rooms, and put before him the awful picture of human misery. Most
of the unfortunate patients were dressed and sitting around on the
beds, others in chairs.

Their cadaverous faces, haggard, frightened, his body trembled with
constant shaking, as if they were seized with panic.

In the faces of ladies, rosy and fresh, it drew the fear and anxiety. The doctor smiled at
him strange way he did, looking with her big black eyes, insolent.

- Not a very nice box, right? - He said.

- Poor things! - Cried several -. Are they all mine?

- Yes, ladies, the mercury vapor atmosphere vitiated by the failure of breathable air fatally
engenders not only earthquakes, hydrargirism chronic or acute, that is what you call them the most
attention, but also the chronic pulmonary catarrh, dysentery, tuberculosis, mercurial stomatitis
and another portion of diseases that end with the existence of the worker or leave him useless
for the job a few years down the mine.

- Poor things!

Poor things! - Repeated by reviewing the ladies with their terrified eyes those sad and emaciated
faces that turned toward them without expression or even curiosity.

-
What medium would not address these effects so disastrous? - Clementina
asked to boot.

- The remedy at all, no, but to relieve it enough,
yes - said the young man nailing his penetrating gaze on it -.

If the miners were working only two or three days a week and those few hours when they should
be made to live away from the mining establishment in Villalegre For example, if those jobs were
prohibited to children under sixteen years if change your clothes soon coming out of the mine,
and especially if you eat well, I think that the ravages of mercury decrease significantly. Today,
for eating badly, need to come down to the mine every day and stay
there for a considerable number of hours.

After four or six years useless. You have to take them abroad, then the wages is so small
that neither potatoes with salt water and eat: so that instead of curing worse. The only way to
improve the condition of the miner is to reduce the hours of work and raising the wages .... But
then - he added, lowering his voice a little and smiling face Clementina - Riosa mine would not
be a business for your father.

A Clementina struck him like a slap that smile.

- Not for you either - said trying to smile -. Are not you a doctor of mine?

- Yes, ma'am. My business consists of two thousand five hundred pesetas a year and a tremor
mijita I have achieved in the three years I've been here.

Indeed, the young man's hands had a slight shudder that became visible when stroked his thin
black mustache. The group of guests watched him intently for a moment not without hostility.
Divined in him an enemy. Family security had to bothered to talk to them. Pagola him with another
look of impenetrable expression and went on without any pregnancy:

-
At one time the wages were a little older, the food was, therefore,
more healthier and more abundant.

But since the quicksilver have begun to fall ... I do not know what
causes (Here he lowered his voice and coughed), the salary, of course,
also suffered a considerable decline.

Have reached the minimum. With the win today miners are dying of hunger materially in a day or
a month, but after four or five years, yes.

Most of those here victims succumb, in reality, hunger. Well fed hydrargirism could resist. Moreover,
because wages are so poor, are compelled to devote to their children when only eight or ten years,
these hazardous work (because we all are when walks on mercury). Children, for their lower organic
strength, are the first intoxicated.

Many die, and they get saved, twenty years is old ....

The ladies and the few gentlemen who had come with them, listened attentively and sorrow. They
had never seen a picture so scary. The work, which is itself a punishment here is complicated
by poisoning. And with the softened heart, full of good intentions, proposed ways to ease those
bastards. Some claimed to be based a good hospital, others spoke of a shop-haven where food workers
found cheaper, others aspired to be prohibited from working children, other operators to for an
hour a day work no more.

The doctor shook his head and smiled.

- It's all very well, I think so too .... But to tell you back then
would not be a business.

Some coins distributed among the sick, visited the chapel, also left some money to make a new dress
the baby Jesus.

Finally left that room dark. Breathing the fresh air felt a joy not
trying to hide.

Talking and laughing were to join the rest of the party.

Salabert engineers explained to a new distillation method was introduced,
with which not only greatly raise production, but could be used vacisco,
or the fine ore. It was formed capacitors Cameras bricks, thin walls
on the first piece of travel of the smoke and cameras glass timber
and left it to the fireplace.

The furnace with them could be switched and running constantly. Duke Escuchábales carefully,
took notes, made no objection, trying to catch up on that business, in which his fine nose sniffed
large profits.

Upon arrival the ladies wanted to be polite, suspended the discussion.

-
How will my patients, ladies?

They have not had much luck today - he said.

- Mal, Duke, bad .... The hospital leaves much to be desired ....

And
those ladies were made to regret all the shortcomings that offered
asylum to with black paint colors, to propose reforms to let him comfortable.

The

Duke listened with smiling indifference, some jeering care is provided a cuddly child.

- Well, well, and fix that, but before you let me put the business up, right Regnault?

The engineer nodded, smiling gallantly.

- It is also necessary, Duke, that the workers work less hours - said
the Countess of Cebal.

- And that they increase wages - Lola said
Madariaga.

- And that made houses for them Villalegre - added the
Marquise de Fonfría.

- Oh! Oh! Oh! - Said the Duke, releasing a loud
and savage as those of laughter heroes of the Iliad -.

Why do not we bring Gayarre and recreating Tosti at night? They must be very boring here at
night.

The ladies smiled embarrassed.

- Come on, Duke, do not tease you, that is serious - the Countess said Cebal.

- And so serious, Countess! As has already cost me fifteen million pesetas! Do you seem to you
not serious these millions?

The women watched him with awe, fascinated by the huge flow man driving.

- But those millions do not you think them out a return? - Lola said he presumed to understand
some businesses.

The Duke returned to drop another laugh.

- No, ma'am, no, what revenue!

I leave here for the first pass.

And suddenly getting serious:

- Who the hell has gotten over his head these ideas? Believe you, ladies, what it is missing here
but really need! is morality. You moralize the workers and all these damage you have seen disappear.
Do not drink, do not play, not to waste the wages, and these effects of mercury will not be fatal
for them .... But, of course - said turning to the gentlemen who had come -: how to be resisted
in the mine a body rather than food, whatever it is, is inside a
jar of brandy amyl?

I am convinced that most diseases are drinking here is chronic. You know, gentlemen, that is completely
unknown Riosa saving ... Savings! no which "can not welfare or prosperity
of a country ...."

This phrase had often heard the Duke in the Senate. He repeated with emphasis and conviction.

- But Duke, how do you save with one or two pesetas to pay? - Dare
point the Countess of Cebal.

- Ideally, Countess.

The savings is primarily an idea (that he had heard an economist
friend), the idea of ??separating some of the enjoyment of today to
avoid tomorrow's pain.

Two pesetas for a worker are the same as two thousand for you.

Can not you separate some the two thousand? Then they can just as
something to separate the two.

Consider that it is fifteen cents, ten ... Even five cents. The issue
is to save something.

The saving something is saved.

- Oh my God - said under his breath a sigh Countess -. What I do not understand is how to live
with two pesetas, the more you save.

The engineers were invited to visit the study room and laboratory.

This offered a great microscope, which was what caught their attention. The doctor was driving
on those most engage with great fondness for histology work.

The director invited him to shew those gentlemen to some of their
preparations.

They saw a lot of diatoms: Ladies caprichosísimas were enthusiastic about their ways. They
also saw the worm that had concluded with the famous bridge in Milan. Never tired of wonder that
a creature so tiny could demolish a factory so immense.

- Just think of the millions of these beings who have had to work in the demolition - said
an engineer.

Quiroga (as they called the doctor) concluded by showing a drop of water. One by one all were
watching the invisible world within it exists.

- I see an animal larger than the others - said the Duke, eagerly applying one of its greatest
eyed the hole of the device.

- You will observe that before him all others flee - the doctor said.

- True.

- This animal is called the rotifer. Shark is the drop of water.

- Wait a bit .... you I think that now hides behind a thing as algae ....

- Algae can be called into effect. Maybe put there to stalk prey.

- Yes, yes! Now it sheds on other smaller bug! ... The bug disappeared, no doubt ate it.

The Duke raised his face beaming with satisfaction, having had occasion to observe curious
that tragedy.

Quiroga his eyes fixed on him bold, and said in his eternal grin:

- It's the story. At the drop of water, and at sea, as elsewhere,
the fish swallows the big guy.

Duke's smile faded.

He glanced sideways to the doctor, who hath not left his fixed and
mysterious, and said abruptly:

- I think, ladies, should you get
bored with science.

It's time for lunch.

The great attraction of the tour, which had started almost all the
people of palaces for transfer to region so harsh and sad, it was
a planned lunch at the bottom mine.

When Clementina announced to the circles in one of her triplets,
there was a veritable explosion of enthusiasm -.

"How very original! ... How strange ... How beautiful!"

The ladies, especially, showed desire so intense, that he seemed
pleased.

In an indication Duke, all were provided with magnificent waterproof boots is high, because the
mine distilled water in many places and formed puddles.

However, the night before, at the approach the event, many, frightened, had withdrawn. The duke
was obliged to give orders was served for lunch at the address and mine. The brave men who remained
download, will not spend eight or ten.

Whole group went to one of the mouths of mine called "Well of San
Gennaro."

Close of this well is a building for inspection and weight, where
the ladies and gentlemen changed shoes and put on their raincoats.

Seeing them dressed that way, a shiver of desire and excitement ran
through the rest of the hikers.

Rush a sudden burst of courage, almost all women said they were willing
to lower with their partners.

It was necessary to send immediately by impermeable Villalegre.

The cage, moved by steam, was ready to receive the illustrious explorers.

Consisted two floors, each of which could hold eight people standing. It had been lined with flannel
and had added some brass rings for support.

Acomodáronse it the director, the Duke and courageous ladies who had not hesitated ever to lose
the first.

God commanded the driver for the decline was slow. The cage shook
up and down a few inches quickly.

Suddenly, suddenly plunged into the hole. The ladies gasped and were
silent and pale.

The walls of the hole were bleak, mixed and distilled water. In every department of a miner holding
cage, his hand Drowsiness trembling as a lamp.

All but the director and the miners and seasoned up down, felt some
anxiety in the stomach.

A vague terror impossible for them to talk and hands were twitching
who clung to the rings.

- First floor - said the head as they passed
a black opening.

Nobody made any comment.

That suspension into the abyss, into the unknown, paralyzed their
language and to his thinking.

- Second floor - again said the director,
quickly crossing the black hole.

And so it was realizing all until
the ninth. They perceived the sound of voices and saw illuminated
aperture.

- Here is where we will lunch. Before the eleventh visit
to see the work.

After passing the tenth, he shouted with all his
might:

- Are they cast the anchors?

There was a distant voice in
the background saying:

- No.

- Drive them out now! - Shouted the
excited director.

- It can not be - answered below.

- What! What!
... These anchors! Browse these anchors!

And with swollen cheeks,
restless, agitated, screaming like a madman while the cage slowly
falling.

A bitter cold penetrated the hearts of all. In the overhead
compartment some ladies throwing piercing shrieks. Shouted down the
well and caught them with his arm strength knights. Some fainted.
It was a moment of indescribable anguish. Believed reached the end
of his life.

And the director did not stop shouting

- These anchors!
These anchors!

And the voices from below were heard less and less
distant:

- No way! No way!

Once thought to be rolling down the pit,
the cage stood quietly. They heard some fresh laughter and her eyes
looked frightened, the flickering light of candles, a group of miners
smiling faces whose expression suddenly changed to reflect the awe
and wonder.

- What is that? What joke is this? - Said the director
of the cage furious jumping and turning them.

The workers are stripped
of his hat respectfully. One of them, smiling embarrassed exclaimed:

-
Excuse me, sir .... We thought we were partners and we wanted to give
them a scare ....

- Did you not know that we were going down now?
- Again said with irritation.

- Mr. Director, we thought that stopped
in the ninth, where preparations have been made these days ....

-
You thought, you believed! ... Well be careful to believe nonsense.

The
Duke recovered the use of the word.

- You know, my children, you
spend some light banter with your mates! ... Bring Them death before
your eyes!

- Death! - Said the miner who had spoken.

- No, Duke
- said the director -