 Nothing equaled Oliverio the
fear of appearing ridiculous, the care that had not to say too much or too little, strict
sense of the measure. Warned that listened for a quarter of an hour that was digress.

- Word of honor - he said - fool me again, you make me lose my head. You're ahead me with the
coolness of a confidant of comedy and I seems that I'm giving the show a tragic farce.

Then he sat in an armchair, was placed in the position of a man who is prepared not only to rant,
but a discourse on ideas and changing his tone light so quickly and completely as attitudes have changed
and blinking a little, with the smile, continued:

- There may come to be married. I think not, but speaking with prudence will tell you, if you
want, that in future anything can be admitted: they have seen amazing conversions. Ring after something
that I find. If ever that something appeared to me as I seduced, adorned with a name that would
be a nice partnership with mine, whatever, on the other hand, the fortune, it could happen to do
crazy, because it would in any case, but she, at least, would be to my liking and I would
not have been inspired only by my whim. At the moment I intend to live my way. The whole question
is this: find what should be our way of being and not copy anyone's happiness. If we were the
two switch roles you would not want to ever represent my own and I would be even more embarrassed
me to interpret yours. As much as you say, to you like novels, complications, rugged situations,
you have exactly the force needed to touch the difficulties without fault and weakness rather
delicate flavors anxieties. You will Procures all extreme emotions, from fear of being a bad
man to the pleasure proud to recognize almost hero. Your life is drawn, and I see it from here:
go up Finally, offer your adventure so far as it can go without committing an outrage, always
cherish the delicious idea of ??seeing two fingers of a failure and avoid it. Do you want me to tell
you everything? ... Magdalena one day fall into your arms asking for grace, you will have the unsurpassed
joy see a holy creature languor vanish at your feet you will avoid it - I'm sure - and with
a heavy heart you would leave and mourn his loss for years.

- Oliver - I said - shut out of respect for Madeleine if you do it for pity on me.

- I have concluded - replied without the slightest emotion, - as I say not a reproach, not a
threat or a prophecy, it's up to you to make me wrong. I just want to show how we differ and
convince you that the reason is not from nowhere. I like to be very clear in my life I have
always known what other similar cases and what I risked put himself at risk. Fortunately, neither
one nor the other hand was exposed anything too precious. I like things that are decided promptly
and in like manner be untied. Happiness the real joy is in me a legend. The paradise of the
world closed in on the steps of our first parents behold forty-five thousand years that man is
complying with semiperfecciones, semifelicidades and semimedios. I know the truth of the appetites
and the joys of my peers. I am modest, I am deeply humbled by being nothing more than a man,
but I resigned. You know what my big concern? Kill the boredom. Who was able to make that service
to humanity would be the real destroyer of monsters. Coarse and annoying, all the rude pagan mythology
has not just imagined subtle and more frightening. Are very similar to the one and the other
is ugly, flat and pale although they are multifaceted and life capable of doing nasty ideas
from first day when she puts her foot. They are inseparable and form a couple horrible not
everyone sees. Woe to those still young to realize there! ... I have always known: they were
at school, there could you also know you, not left to inhabit a single day during the three
years of vulgarity and meanness that it went through. Sorry to tell you: Sometimes going to your
aunt and my cousins. I had forgotten about living in Paris and continue fleeing from them, throwing
the bustle after the unexpected luxury with the idea that those two little ghosts bourgeois
parsimonious, shy, routine, do not follow me down that road. The two of them have made many more
victims of deadly passions rated: murderers know their customs and I have to fear ...

This continued speaking in a tone semiseria, exposing ideas that amounted to a confession of
irremediable mistakes and making me vaguely discouraged fear and
you know whose solidity.

- Are you going to hear the news of Julia?
- I asked.

- Yes, in the anteroom.

- Will see again?

- As little
as possible.

- Have you planned what to expect?

- I expected to
marry another or remain single.

- Goodbye - I said, but had not yet
left my room.

- Goodbye - I replied.

And we broke up after this last word in the background did not affect
our friendship, but that broke everything, no more noise, dryly, as
broken glass.

XV

For more than a month that Madeleine had not seen five minutes at
no more witnesses and time still had not found it nothing like their
other amenities time.

One day I found it by chance on a deserted street in the neighborhood
where I lived.

She was alone and was walking.

All blood from his heart flowed into his cheeks when I saw, and I need, of course, of my decision
to not run to meet him and clasp between the arms in the street.

- Where does and where it goes?

This was the first question addressed to you seeing it as lost and venturing into a part of
Paris, which should be the end of the world for the Countess of Nièvre.

- I'm two steps from here - he replied with a bit of timidity, - to
make a visit.

And he named the person whose house was.

- Whether or not received - said, - Let us part.

It's good to see we are not together. Nothing insolent in their procedures. You have done such
crazy things for me to hereinafter to me to be cautious.

- I leave you - I said waving.

- About - continued Magdalena at the moment away .-- I go to the theater
tonight with my father and my sister.

There is a place for you if you want.

- Allow me to reflect on ...-- pretending I did not have commitments
tonight .-- I am not free.

- I had thought - added to the sweetness
of a child taken into lack .-- hoped ...

- I absolutely can not -
responded with a cold-blooded cruelty.

It seemed as if returning pleasure caused me a whim and caprice by torturing.

At night, at half past eight I went in his box. I pushed the door gently as possible, she had
the feeling that I was not affected because even turning his head.

Remained occupied entirely of music, his eyes fixed on the stage. Only when he the first break
of the singers could approach her and forcing her to receive my greeting.

-
I come to ask a place in your box - I said putting half on a lie -
unless that this post is not for Mr de Nièvre.

- The Lord of Nièvre
not come - turning Magdalena said side plates.

He would stage a masterpiece, immortal. Incomparable singers, who have disappeared, put it transports
of enthusiasm. The audience burst into frenzied applause. That wonderful power of music passionately,
stirred by hand as the muse of brain heavy hearts or distracted and reported more insensitive
to air viewers of inspired. A tenor, whose name alone was a prestigious, arrived near the proscenium,
two steps away from us. It had an attitude when collecting, a bit awkward nightingale going to sing.
It was ugly, fat, was poorly dressed, unattractive, another similarity with the virtuoso winged. From
the first notes in the room had a slight tremor, like a forest where the leaves flutter. I never
felt so special as that night, evening last and only when I wanted to hear. Everything was
selected, to the language of fluid, undulating rhyme paid to the idea crashes sound Italian vocabulary
and makes a music book. Singing the ever tender and plaintive anthem of lovers who wait. One by
one, into melodies never heard, developed all the sadness, all the heat, and all hopes of hearts
very much in love. One might say that was addressed to Magdalena, so we got her directly penetrating
voice, excited, quiet as if the singer had been confident heartless of my own pain. One hundred
years have I looked at the bottom of my heart tortured and burned, before finding a word that
were worth a sigh of that melodious instrument said so many things and did not feel any.

Magdalena listened eagerly.

I was behind her as close as allowed back of his chair, which supported me. Now and then drew
back to the point I swept her hair lips. I could not make a gesture of my hand, I did not
feel then his breath and breathing uneven as a burning more. Had two arms folded on the chest,
perhaps to contain your heart. His whole body leaning back was due to palpitations irresistible,
and every breath of your chest communicating from his seat to my arm I printed a convulsive movement
at all similar to my own life. Was to believe that it encouraged us to breath once in a life
indivisible and the blood of Madeleine, not mine already circulating in my heart entirely deprived
love.

At that moment she felt herself a little noise in a box at the other
end of the room and he went two single women, dressed in luxury and
being late to cause more effect.

Just sitting, began to handle the twins and their eyes fell on Magdalena. This, inadvertently,
did like them. There was a change for a second observation scrutinizing I froze in terror,
because at first glance he recognized a face witness of old weaknesses and find it again because
of memories detested. By noticing in those eyes on us, Magdalena had a suspicion? I believe, because
it became suddenly as to surprise me. I held the fire in his eyes, the most immediate and
clairvoyant I have ever faced. If it had been in his life I would not have been more committed
to an act of recklessness that he demanded the best. The rest of the evening was spent wrong.
Magdalena seemed less busy of the music, distracted by an annoying idea, as if that meeting
and that remain face to face importunity. Once or twice yet sought to clarify the doubts, then
was foreign to everything happening around her and I realized that was removed from the back of
his mind.

The car drove up and get to it, the running low and wrapped in his coat Magdalena fur, said:

-
"May I accompany you?

There was no reply to me especially in the presence of Mr. D'Orsel
and Julia.

The question was, moreover, of the simplest.

I went almost before she'd let me.

Do not utter a word during the journey on the fast-paced noisy pavement and sound of the horses.
Mr. D'Orsel humming recalling the work. I watched Julia surreptitiously and then hit his face
against the glass and looked into the street. Magdalena, medium as would have been lying on
a chaise longue, nervous hand Ahab with a huge bouquet of violets all night I was drunk. I saw
the strange light of febrile eyes. Dam Sentíame deep embarrassment, I felt distinctly that
she had to me something very serious, as a crucial debate.

Under the latest and even had his hand in mine when Mr. D'Orsel and Julia went up the stairs the hotel.
He took a step to follow and dropped the bouquet. I pretended not to notice.

- My field, does you the favor?

Handed it to him without saying a word, had sobbed. He took it, took it quickly to your lips,
chewed furiously as if to tear it.

- I torments you and me tears - said softly in a tone of supreme despair then with a movement that
I can not describe, and pulled both halves of the bunch, is and I was left with a cast, so to speak,
the other half in the face.

I started running like crazy, at night, taking a rag from the heart of Magdalena manojillo of flowers
that had her lips and printed as I savored bites like kisses.

Walking at random, drunk with joy, repeating a phrase that dazzled me as the light of a rising
sun. I was not concerned nor the time or the streets. After having lost ten times in the neighborhood
of Paris who knew better got to the docks. I found them to anyone.

All Paris sleeps slept like 3:00 to 6:00. The moon lit the docks deserts, fleeing out of sight.
Just was cold, we were in March. The river was tremors of light that bleached and ran without
the slightest sound from its high tree-lined banks and palaces. Far populous city sank with
towers, half, their arrows, which looked like they were burning the stars as beacons, and the
central Paris Extended confusingly dozing under the mist. The silence and solitude rose to
the height the sudden feeling that I came of life, of his greatness, fullness and intensity.
I remembered what she had suffered the crowds or at home, always feeling isolated and lost in mediocrity,
and dropped continuously. I realized that long illness is not up to me, that all smallness
was the fact the lack of happiness.

"A man is all or nothing" - I said .-- The smallest becomes the largest, the most miserable
envy can ... And it seemed that my joy and pride filled my Paris.

Forged foolish dreams, monstrous projects that would not have been forgiven for not conceived
in a fever. Magdalena wanted to see that day, at all costs. "I do not there - I said - subterfuge,
or costumes, no ability, no barriers to prevail over what I want and against the certainty
that I have. "wore flowers in his hand broken, watched and covered them with kisses, as if questioning
keeps the secret of Magdalena, the wondered what she had said when
ripping, if they were touching or insults ... And I know what feeling
rampant replied that Madeleine was missing and that he was no longer
to dare.

The next day I rushed home of Magdalena.

Had left. I returned the following days: there was no means of finding it. I acquired the
conviction that did not respond for herself and relied on media defense that would be foolproof.

Three weeks, on more or less, and passed, fighting behind closed doors
and in a state of exasperation that I got to the level of lost obstinate
beast to save fences.

One afternoon I got a ticket. I kept it closed for a moment, suspended in front of my eyes
as if it contained my destiny.

* * *

"If you have the slightest friendship to me - I said Magdalena, - not to insist on chase; you hurt
me unnecessarily. While I hoped to save an error and a madness, nothing that could bear fruit economize.
Today I owe to others who had left care excessively. Proceed as if you dwell in Paris at least for
some time. You depends to tell you goodbye or au revoir. "

* * *

Trivial parting, a perfect dry, I caused the effect of a collapse. Then to abate the anger came.
And perhaps the anger was what saved me. She gave me energy to react and adopt an extreme party.
That same day I wrote two or three letters saying as I left Paris. I moved home, went to hide
in a remote neighborhood, call my rescue what was left of reason, intelligence and love of good,
and I began again a new probationary period did not know, but in any case should be the last.

XVI

This
change came in the overnight and it was radical. It was not the time to falter and cool. Had
a horror of half-measures. I liked the fight. Superabundant energy me. Rejected in part, my will
was in need of turning in another sense, find a new obstacle to overcome in a few hours, so to
speak, and jump on it. The time seemed eternal to me. Apart from any question of time I felt,
if not old, to least very mature.

I was not a teenager who stabs the child despite all painful, the soft slopes of youth. It
was a proud man, impatient, wounded, pricked by the desires and sorrows, that dropped suddenly
in the prime of his life - as a soldier at noon on the final day - with hearts full of grievances,
bitter soul by impotence, brain exploding project.

I did not set foot in the world, at least in that part of society where risked notice and find
me memories that I had been tempted. I also locked too narrow because it would have drowned,
but I was confined in a circle of men activities, studies, special, lost, enemies of chimeras,
which were devoted to science, to scholarship or art as that which
created Florentín naive perspective and at night woke his wife to
say, "How sweet is the perspective!" distrusted wanderings of the
imagination and put in order.

As for my nerves, I had carefully so voluptuously until then, were punished in the most rude
for contempt all that is ill and the firm intention of not more than the estimate that is robust
and healthy.

The moonlight on the Seine, the sun sweet dreams at the window, walks under the trees, discomfort
or welfare caused by a sunbeam or a raindrop, the roughness of the genius that caused me a
little air and good living thoughts that inspired the absence of
wind, all that softness of heart, that slavery the spirit, those feelings
were considered exorbitant and the examination was decreed they were
unworthy of a man, and broke all those ice wrapped around me in a
tissue influences and weaknesses