 | 98 | 34 | 16 | 148 | 108 | 34
| 10 | 152 | 300 | | August. | 101 | 19 | 14 | 134 | 77 | 19 | 21 | 117 | 251 | | September.
| 108 | 26 | 10 | 144 | 76 | 35 | 21 | 132 | 276 | | October. | 84 | 31 | 9 | 124 | 84 | 33
| 12 | 129 | 253 | | November | 106 | 34 | 15 | 155 | 88 | 29 | 9 | 126 | 281 | | December.
| 71 | 26 | 20 | 117 | 83 | 19 | 15 | 117 | 234 | |-----------+----+---+---+----+----+---+-- -+----+----| | Total | 1215 | 335
| 176 | 1726 | 1039 | 353 | 169 | 1561 | 3287 | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-
--- +

Having found very different times of the deaths according to
the ages and sexes, I merely present here, without distinction between
the maximum and minimum results, the Drawn from the preceding state
total.

+------------------------------------------------- + | | DEATH.

| | YEAR. |---------------------------------------| | | MAXIMUM RESULTS. | RESULT MINIMUM.
| |---------|-------------------------------------- - | | | June 146 | October 1963 | | 1828 |
July 107 | November 1970 | | | March 183 | August 1976 | |---------|----------------------------------
-----| | | June 121 | December 1960 | | 1829 | July 103 | August 1969 | | | November 101 |
January 1978 | |---------|------------------------------ ---------| | | May 111 | January
1962 | | 1830 | November 110 | February 78 | | | August 106 | March 1985 | |---------|-----------------------------
----------| | Summary | June 559 | January 229 | | of the | July 300 | December 234 | | three years | May
292 | August. 251 | +----------------------------------------------- - +

In the province of Moxos maximum results of deaths have always been rather during the months of
May, June and July, ie during the period of the three driest months
and cold of the year, a period subsequent to that in which the waters
that cover the province evaporate leaving huge areas full of swamps
and stagnant pools and fetid.

It may well therefore claim the maximum results of deaths during the dry season; 1, the winds of
winter, naturally cool to men accustomed to a temperament so hot and are always nearly naked,
2 ° to the disease (intermittent fevers) determining the deadly miasma that is then re-air.

It is certainly curious that the maximum result of the deaths occurring in Europe just as the torrid
zone, in the coldest season of the year. (See the work and cited Mr. Quetelet, t. II, pg. 310 and t.
I, pp. 188.) Thus, disregarding of local influences just mentioned, takes place in Europe for
the deaths, the same as seen in America.

In Moxos, the minimum time of the deaths result is consistent with the time abundant rainfall,
ie the period in which the navigator's tasks are less painful, with shorter communications,
and which also stop the putrid exhalations swampy places.

Health of the province.

If, as a corollary of what I said on the movement of the population and deaths, is to take a quick
glance at the health of the province We find his vast area is much
healthier than it might be assumed in view of the large amount of
wetlands that dry time every year exhale fumes corrupt: and yes, it
is not known in the province one particular disease, and the number
of people attacked by intermittent fever, in the months of March and
April, is certainly very small, especially on the banks of the Mamore.

These fevers have no character ever malignant and are much less intense
than in the provinces of Mizque and Valle Grande.

Sometimes the excess moisture often causes dysentery. This disease, once much feared by the natives,
is today much less frequent, and easily passes the refreshments.

The extraordinary mortality that is seen in Moxos from two accidents, or the cold, so harmful to
the creatures, or of any of several eruptive fevers, such as smallpox, measles and scarlet fever
having their toll on people of all ages.

All Indians attacked by the fever of invasion, feeling the heat inside the burns, believe finding
some relief to go and take a bath where it is certainly a repercussions for the interior, causing
death.

Meanwhile, to halt such mortality would be sufficient that the priests and administrators to
have an active surveillance.

Much of the creatures die at ten days have seen the light, and the lack care, and too cold by
the action of winds from the south. The women delivered tirelessly to the tasks imposed on
them by administrators, either by his own account, whether for the government, are forced to neglect
their neonates, who die the suffering that exposes their age and
this kind of abandonment.

Administration of the province.

Until 1842, the province ruled by governors estubo subordinate to
the prefect of Santa Cruz, and who exercised their functions as despotic
as he pleased.

A governor has under their orders in the capital, a general manager
who acts as secretary, and each population, a particular administrator
vested with certain powers that much abused more brazen as that is
separate from that might rebuke their conduct, not Ignoring the orders
they have passed their superiors.

They are the judges and referees the Indians to punish those who do not listen sometimes more than
their voice whims. Under the orders of each of these managers is an indigenous cacique several
other subordinate chiefs who existed in the time of the Jesuits, not having been altered In
this regard, as I said, those religious institutions.

Moxos province has a vicar general, appointed by the Bishop of Santa-Cruz, and there in each mission
one or two priests in charge of spiritual government. Very often tend to be these powers in
rivalry with the managers, resulting in riots and disputes thousand which shock and serve
as a bad example to the missions.

Customs, practices and moral status of the province.

If under the administration of the priests were forced Indians Concepcion [1] to make office of
horses pulling the carriage in which he was the priest of this mission,
if later the Spanish governors did not sit at the table without sending
a troop of musicians come to the amused during the meal, or not allowed
to see their subjects, but sitting under a canopy; be taxed even today
many of these honors exaggerated to the leaders of the province.

When the governor of the province journey goes, administrators and priests of the missions make
canoes decorated with flowers, placing them a drum to announce the senior the traveler. So this
sighting sound port boxes, and the priests and administrators, followed by the chief magistrates
of the mission, are ahead of their meeting.

Mounts Governor on horseback, and heads to town with all these committees, which precedes an
Indian touching the box going at full gallop. Approaching the mission bells ring for give notice
of the arrival of the chief of the province, and then leave the judges and other employees
welcome to the accompaniment of musicians. Triumphantly driven to school, go presented to him
on all the indigenous peoples, which are translated harangue him by an interpreter. Then come to
Indian girls offer flowers. The duration of food not the music stops for a moment, and when
night is a dance in which often make it dance by force the Indians to young girls. The drums with
a roll advertising the arrival of the dancers that come in pairs, the rhythm of the motion
carried by the music that precedes them: then through the entire room with moderate affecting walking
and imperturbable gravity, parade in front of the governor, and then if any are welcomed to
register online on to dance the quadrille Spanish. Trinidad and Loreto in the women dance
barefoot and wear a calico dress, or simply the tipoi, this same fabric around her waist, her hair
is held in place by a comb at the top of the head. The dancers, usually young men of fourteen
dress pants and shirt, and wear a white cap and more or less as the women of Normandy. After
having executed his contradanza very seriously, welcome back to the governor and take every
seat. Traders and other targets found by chance in mission, usually take part in these amusements,
courting the dancers, who dare a bit when it's punch, and are not to pray and to perform the different
dances used in Santa Cruz.

Bolivians white van traveling in the province in canoes made from a single hollowed log: These vessels
are generally nine to twelve yards long, on one or two wide, are very low in the middle board
and rarely, being charged, beyond two or three inches to the surface of the waves, and so that
the minor crash into a tree floating water enters them in abundance. The canoes of a regular size
generally recognized four or five trunks, and at most three passengers to take cover from the
sun or from bad weather under a canopy of leather where you can barely
sit.

The number of rowers VARIES the length of the vessel, to direct, remain standing in the rear the captain
Canoe and his assistant, two other Indians are sitting on the opposite extremity, being careful
prevent and avoid pregnancy. The rowers, placed in the middle of them two by two, do not leave
hand throughout the day's big and wide paddles which serve to promote small boat. All these Indians
begins the day with a swim, and scratch the day are already underway: the top to make about eight for
lunch, and before going any further take a second bathroom. At noon they stop again for an hour for lunch,
and then navigate until evening. When the traveler is a personage of distinction, send administrators
a canoe loaded with food, where food is prepared hours to rule without detensiones waste time.
In all traffic Indians play their tasks with greater heat as possible and not given an idea
of ??the lengthy care that cater to travelers, while always alert to guess and to prevent
their children wishes.

When you have to climb a river, usually go from eight to ten miles per day, and when Vogue
downstream is usually double this distance, but this depends on the varying speed current, variable
in each river, and also of the rowers, whose skill and activity not all parts are of equal
rank. Each nation has its particular way of paddling: the Itonama will sit and paddle with
lots of precipitation; the Cayuvava, also seated row slowly but forcefully, while the Baures remain
standing as if more Drive to the oars. Of all these nations the Cayuvava are more famous rowers,
and try to preserve their reputation, striving to excel in speed
to all vessels foreigners who are on their way.

These natives have a habit of bathing three times a day when they go on journey, to practice, they
stop suddenly, thrown into the water, dive and return, to peel his shirt dress, then continued
walking. All Once Moxos come to bathe, teach their backs covered with scars that appear to
burns, and which are simply the result of the flogging of Holy Week. Among them manifest themselves
proud of carrying such signs on their bodies, mocking with certain irony for those who do not.

When
the weather is beautiful, the heat which prevails to this noon in the narrow callegon formed
by flakes and ancient trees that adorn the banks of rivers, never come to be tempered by the
slightest breeze and passengers, the traveler then throwing less vivifying air of the past week, want the
night with impatience, but as soon as This involves land, dense vapors rising from the river,
and is a very wet morning as if it had rained all night tough. When it rains during the day with
no storm, leaving thousands of mosquitoes forests, and taking refuge in canoes, torture to
the poor travelers, who too suffer such discomfort at night. If time becomes extremely bad,
the Indians built a hut haste cane under which the travelers to get insured against the torrents
of rain, and if this continues, They also built for spacious cabins, so that in a few moments
becomes camp in a hamlet where many days remain until the wind subsides.

The waves that promote strong winds in the large rivers are not, as we have said, the only danger
to which the traveler is nswer passing through those places. Sandy gullies derrepente usually
subside over the water, dragging down one of the giant trees that stand on the banks, whose
roots are huge behind a huge mass of land. If all this debris falling by chance on fragile boat,
make it disappear completely, but when this happens, would be sufficient to make waves capsized
the projection, which excite such collapses within waves.

Sometimes up rivers in the rainy season, the Indian venture to go through among the arms that
form the islands, where the current is less evident fast, however, these arms are often found
in their shots blocked by thick trunks that have piled up the waters, if the rowers trying
to save the way they get by small narrow where the current is very impetuous, tangle the canoe
through the branches, and is filled water at a time: just alarmed are cast into the river course,
and I swam, and Bolivia on the branches, holding the boat without sinking, until they reach
their assistance in the other canoes. It is on such occasions when the superstitious Cayuvava
demolish an ear of corn in thanksgiving to the supreme providence for having liberated the danger.

If
these journeys are painful for the Spanish, they are still much more to the poor Indians, ESPONSE
TO the weather constantly, and often forced to spend the night in floodplains, suspended over
water in their hammocks.

Countless pieces of vegetation, hidden beneath the waters, they often
capsize canoes: Then the Indians detiénense on some sandbar to put
out the merchandise.

Very rarely get any Indian to perish in these trances, they all swim like if waves were his natural
element. But there are other dangers to which his life is in such esponse Voyages: cite as
a major encounter with the tigers. When they discover about Beaches traces of this beast,
immediately raised his camp, going to seek not further the comprehensive security, and if in the
middle of the night, hear their roars, go to immediately collect all the firewood they can and
large lit bonfires, but this is not always the take cover against the fatal accidents, especially when
the expedition consists ne more than Indians. Magdalena A manager had sent in one occasion
a few Indians to go and collect the cuttings in the woods of a tree, which provides ash eSCelente
for a potash soap factory. Many days that these Indians had entirely unarmed, were camped and
cons to your job, when suddenly there was a night among them a hungry
tiger, and throwing himself on an Indian lay asleep in his hammock,
I had to devour far from there, however, afraid the tumultuous cries
of the other Indians awoke to the cries of the victim, threw to run,
stranding the poor Indian head pieces and with very few moments of
life.

This is like a reproach to the absurd extent that, under the pretext of avoiding quarrels with
the whites, prohibited [1] to carry weapons to men constantly nswers to the greatest dangers
in the midst of those deserts, whose empire still belongs to animals
fierce.

It is noteworthy that the tiger never enviste to people whose head can not see, and not a single
example of any traveler, be well hidden under his mosquito net, there victim died of his hunger.

The
banks of the Mamore, usually very quiet, come once a year to spend countless canoes that go together
Moxos to Santa-Cruz, and giving to the screams echo tumultuous and gay sailors, paid an animation
whose name might be delicious. Made I happen also to journey I found myself at the time one of
these expeditions. Will copy here the point of my diary that refers to this passage.

"... More than forty boats were preparing to depart at once from the port of Loreto, composing a
veritable fleet. Priests and traders who were incorporated into the expedition, they wanted I ordered
me to lead the way, traveling in company, and how could practice better, since my rowers were
the ablest, of course I accepted the honor they gave me. At the end of the day we stopped for
the night on a roomy bench Sandy, not far from a forest. Then I was taken to enjoy a promising
perspective, canoes as they came slowly and successively greeted by triumphant shouts or derision
of those who speak in advance. All Indians then scattered into the forest, and bringing back
wood, some with canes that armed beds for travelers, and symmetric key stakes thick on the ground
to suspend, for separate groups the beds belonging to the rowers in each boat: in the center
of these groups went on a fire, and the outside parle shone at intervals, and other fires where
making dinner. "

"Our camp, which brought together over six hundred people, had the most curious aspect I could imagine.
They spoke to him almost all the languages ??of the province, without being confused each other
different nations. All the white people had gathered in the center while here and there, the Baures,
the Itonama, the Movimas, the Cayuvava, the Canichana Moxos and forming
various groups, conversing in their respective dialects.

The little beach transuto lonely before the theater was the most animated. Each group of white
beds, hanging around a bonfire, in contrast with the nets of travelers and the row of canoes
which extended majestically along the banks [1]: sitting all on the beach after dinner in the
community, raising thousands cheerful conversation, to which the strangeness of different lenguages
??was more originality.

Each individual, away Moxos, was already escento fears and let your tongue go free, the indiscretions
of the one giving rise to the recriminations of the other, so they were revealed in That night
all the secrets about the private conduct of employees, and I knew most things In one hour,
which in some months in the province. "

"Finished dinner, all the Indians gathered as usual to pray in community. These religious songs
so many times I had been pleasantly surprised in the midst of those wilderness, sounded to my
ear at that time with such disagreement, I had to retire to one side, and could not be less
than the confusion of those different intonations dialects, which occurred all at once in the
silence of the night. The Indians, without covering with other clothes that their tipois, lie
in their hammocks, and spend the night ESPONSE TO THE fierce mosquito bites, and especially the
heavy dew that falls in the regions hot on the banks of rivers. Hardly bay day, rise and,
after hook their hammocks, sing in chorus and the more reflective
the appeal of the morning.

"

When traveling with an entourage consisting of a single nation, and that is high in the forest the
banks, these prayers of the night often have inexplicable charm. I can not spare to bring the case
to the expression recorded in my diary of the sensations that the solemnity of such an act once
printed in my mind. "The night was certainly one of the darker, and the gloom seemed even more
under the arch formed by the thick foliage. Shone distance away in the fires of the Indians encamped,
spreading clarity uncertain about the objects around us and giving a wild magical colorful enclosure.
A thing of my seventy-eight Indians in chorus sang their hymns, which in the silence of the night,
in those places took a character that I felt so much majesty deeply moved, I had never seemed
so simple at the same time imposing: his duration was too short for my bliss, and long after they
had ceased, still looking for my ear their mystic chords. Took possession of my mind a sweet
melancholy are harmonious with the vagueness of my thoughts and especially with the respect they
inspired me virginal beauty of those places

.