 

Fearing them, or that should come upon them weapons to Portuguese avenge their own, or carried
interest, were passed and came to live in the country and that, and although just then, as I just
spent four thousand, are now very numerous, they move from twenty thousand, living without
any form of people, troops, and turning to run and steal land surrounding, and the desire for
human flesh, that liked a lot, made many of them captives and fed for many days, as is done in
Europe for animal bristle, celebrated joy most cruel banquet, which were formidable to the confining,
and only with the coming of the Spanish forgotten the inhuman custom of eating human flesh, but
not the cruelty of fate which is said to have destroyed and annihilated at present over hundred
and fifty thousand.

To reduce these barbarians to political life and Christian, directed their designs, from early
last century, the Apostolic Fathers Manuel Ortega, Martín del Campo, Diego Martinez, and on others,
but most industries who used his burning zeal, never able to soften the hardness of heart
so stubborn, and tame the ferocity of encouragement so wild, because the left because, as a
land that has been shed in vain the great evangelist, to employ their labors in a country that correspond
to their culture, more worthy fruit of their work, until the year 1686, having gone two Missionaries
of the province to exercise the ministries of our apostolic vocation to Land of Tarija, made echo
in those deserts the wonders that it had the divine word in good manners broken and lost that land.

Entered,
then, according some chiefs, and by common consent sent messengers the Fathers, is pleading
with pleading eficacísimos moviesen compassion to their souls, making
them in the way of salvation, but then had no other answer but could
not assist them to give notice to his Provincial, who at the time
was Father Gregorio de Orozco, natural Almagro in La Mancha, the subject
of much zeal and fervor, who could not acquiesce so quickly so just
to pleas to open the school, as it did in the town of Tarija.

In choosing among all subjects who were to make a beginning to that mission, had the good
Provincial not much to do to appease the wishes, prayers and tears of so many as were offered to this
arduous undertaking, but there was none more ardently I wished, or who has more reason to was
due to this grace, as the VP Joseph de Arce, a native of the Canary Islands man of great heart
and with equal zeal, winner of Our Lord with a glorious death give notice that later. It seems that San
Francisco Xavier, before the Superior he was destined for this company because they seeing
great talent and ingenuity happy chairs, but with incredible pain of the good Father, he had
applied to them, but not it took a long time were obliged to change his mind, because to be so
humble Father occupation intolerable weight is shiny, it could not obtain by entreaties and
tears relieve you of her, which turned to the asylum of San Francisco Xavier, pleading with
many tears fulfilling their desires. Chambers was happy with such a powerful advocate its
appeal, because after falling ill, they gave him, careless of the nurse, a remedy prescribed
for others, which was reduced to the last stages of life. Seeing in this set, called Fr license
Thomas Provincial Baeza for his large vote Advocate San Francisco Xavier, that if he met life,
employ in the conversion of infidels. Fr Provincial recognizing and hopeless, gave license
to welcome their vote, and after him, I accepted the Ghost from the sky, for sending your evil
force, in a few days left completely healthy.

And at that time it was with great heat of conversion to our holy faith of nations that are facing
the Strait of Magellan, who discovered a few years earlier by Nicholas VP Mascardi, Italian, subject
to the province of Chile and martyr of the Lord, asking preachers of our holy law, and order of
our pious monarch Charles II, were and point to some zealous missionaries to enter the lands
of the Patagonian, was also said Fr Arce. But to the best of the play went through hell by some
Ministers of the King, who pay more attention to their particular interests in the service of
God and the Monarchy, hold them with guns tried to make after his
slaves.

Vanished, then, this unique mission with all the good pain, was destined to bring the light of
the Gospel to the Chiraguanás, and lead the way in other provinces to many his brothers, who conducted
in the same spirit and zeal had to follow, to plant in them the seed of the gospel preaching, which,
to make it more fertile, the had to water, not only with their sweat, but also with their blood.
But before undertaking this work sought to arm themselves and strengthened by recognizing
the virtues necessary for so arduous and difficult undertaking, because
he sensed his heart foreboding that the common enemy had to bring
in arms to keep the tyrannical possession and dominion of a people
who until then, insult of our Lord God, had always been his devotion.

In the meantime, therefore, that the Father was with everything contained in God's spirit to
pursue this business came from the Pilcomayo a chief vassals six, asking no one differed about
to go to give them news of our Lord God, and then expressed the fervor with which said works,
hearing taste and attention to the explanation of Christian Doctrine, and being always obedient
to his will.

Samples were self these few, we lit in his heart a burning desire
to then to work, thinking these provisions well adapted to introduce
faith in people so well inclined.

And indeed it could well expect the Chiriguaná that live at the river Pilcomayo, but not the
Bermejo River, as before them, renewing the old songs, because they had often cast the missionaries
because we wanted make them slaves of the Spanish and compel the personal service and a thousand
lies this sort, looking at him askance and told him that if you put an foot on their land had out
then, or that for once take his eyes, he had to burn alive.

Therefore, before proceeding further, I should be here to paint the living and natural genius
of these people, to recognize the same, because they become so diverse and opposite faces, which
otherwise would be impossible to know. Are inconsistent genius, more of what can be believed,
changeable to any wind, do not keep the word given, now seem men and Christians and apostates
and animals morning, friends of all, even the Spanish, when they are to account for their interests,
but for the slightest cause broken friendship.

And with all that, this is not the greatest contrast with in order to incorporate knowledge
of the mysteries and enforcement of the law of God. The strongest impediment is the bad example of the
Old Christians, rude people like the Indians do not understand a language better than example,
and the life of the faithful follows the qualities of our Santa Fe and many Sometimes they throw
in the face of missionaries who are too hard on them not to allow them the use of many women,
when they see that Europeans have to taste many they crave; and more attempts to answer them,
never told that it is enough to quiet them both. For which, with wise and prudent agreement, the
first workers in this province will attempt to stray away from the cities, looking to spread
the Gospel provinces remote, if not trade, at least in the room of strangers, so that they not
undone by their bad example what they did with his preaching.

And he practiced this until today so severely by the piety of our Catholic Reyes, that no European
or Spanish to land, if not pass, you can put Standing in the Guarani Reductions, except to the
Governors and church prelates, by his office whom they bear the visit. Now therefore, this
impediment in the Chiriguanos, is very serious. Continuously traded bordering cities, and
as more easily vices stick to the good the bad the good virtues of the evil and vicious on
seeing a few engaged in taking money from the peasants, to be unchecked
to other pleasures meat, and in some, though few, as dead faith who
do not scruple to miss to the Divine precepts, and show less reverence
to the mysteries of the Church, is not easy to say how much credit
they earn with the bad, and how much hatred and contempt charge and
to people as to the religion they profess.

And although the innate piety of the Spanish shine here as much as in any other hand, that she
misses all the malice of some, with all that, as I said, in the hearts of these barbarians is more
easily printed and evil vices than the virtues and devotion. And if, perhaps, to hear the explanation
of Christian doctrine, or some of those untestable truths that have the force of returning to itself
forgotten who himself lives, awakens them some good thinking, just born when he stifles his inconstantísimo
genius, and evil example of outsiders, as is often what we see and touch hands. This course
and return to our narrative.

Having Fr Arce tried and tested for many days, the fervor of this
chief and his subjects, we found this reduction seemed to hope good
success.

To this end the referred to his own country, accompanied by four Guarani Indians that were
with him, giving order to those that explore the willingness of the people and ran the villages located
in the bank of the Pilcomayo, which will soon follow, along with D. Diego Porcel, piísimo knight
and beloved of the infidels, for your kindness and good treatment, to help him in that business, and
with His authority had restrained the caciques of the Bermejo River, but God did not want
to it more than good will to eternal reward in heaven: for when he is very decrepit old age,
a few leagues, surprised an accident, it was necessary go back, but instead replaced her son,
whom getting in the way P. Joseph for the month of May 1690, after
a few days they came to some villages they were the banks of the Pilcomayo,
where he was received with special affection of countrymen they were
currently mourning the death of some of their own, because of discord
that existed between Cambaripa and Tataberiy.

Were these the two Chiefs of greater name and power land, and for beginning the new Christianity,
it was necessary to ensure compatibility between yes, and off all malice, redo friends.

To this end, the holy man wanted to go in person to get in between and make peace, and hubiéralo
done to see that it was manifestly not lie down to die in the arms of the Toba, Confederate Tataberiy,
who infested the roads.

At this juncture there came a messenger of Cambaripa, asking him to give him his hand, if I could
find a prompt and effective relief to his ruin, and to that of those his subjects, because had time
to stop or resist the same time as many enemies or seek escape his life by flight, by being
badly wounded by the enemy.

Pierced the heart of this new P. Arce, and that failure to repair the country, again then back to
collect the mercy of a Spanish relief arms and return to God comforts alternate tempered the
pain of that accident, because of Chiriguaná Bermejo River, which before had been so adverse
and hard, and their hearts softened the influences of the Holy Spirit
met him, and Cambichuri, the chief more powerful, he showed great
finesse of love, inviting it to be to preach to his subjects and that
would make him as Father liked.

Came to Tarija, and reaching to the Rulers a company of soldiers,
as soon became he could, taking for his companion to P. Juan Bautista
de Zea, and although the road was rough and dangerous and the lack
of comfort with your body trying these operators are Evangelicals
more work was walking, all that were insensitive to any trouble and
by the abundant copy of heavenly delights enjoyed, baptizing in the
wilderness large number of children and not a few adults who already
seeing close to death, changed life willingly to wait for eternal
bliss.

Finally, to September 26, entered in the villages of Tataberiy, where he had to deal with peace.

He
left it to complete, accompanied by forty of his own, and more at home hospedóle prosperous
town, and beginning at once to discuss the business of peace, be known as very quick, P. Arce,
who fell to the two chiefs promised each other to that peace together
and renew their old friendship, and found out that they may be made
friendships also among relatives of the dead and the murderers who
was the most difficult to achieve.

These people held peace with incomparable solemnity and joy, but above all, who samples gave
higher Cambaripa was happy, and incredibly he became interested Tataberiy the missionaries,
and through them to the holy law of Christ, he entreated her to stay there for teach the Divine
precepts, promising to enlist as soon as possible the number of the faithful; clothing and
gave it to baptize a child all I had.

But the Padres, before to foothold somewhere, wanted to run the entire province, thus giving them
good hopes, left, assisted always the son of that good gentleman, who never wanted to leave her
side in that pilgrimage, and then moving to the banks of the river Parapití and populated
with many villages were received from all with signs of great affection and treated as better
than poverty and hardship in the country permitted.

From this shot to the mountains whose slopes Charaguay to live most of Chanes and many Chiriguaná.
They had little to do here is not in writing to the countrymen Taquiremboti's
vassals, but put them in agreement, they continued their journey,
finding no else destroyed settlements, withdrawing to other parts
of people, not to suffer the woes and misfortunes that war brings.

Finally, suffered little or no danger of dying light, came to the river Guapay where were received
from its inhabitants with incredible finesse, and the Chiefs will Manguta and Fayo pleaded vividly
remain upon that place for instruction in the mysteries of our Santa
Fe and teach the way to heaven.

Fr Arce, who by then had other plans, promised to meet them another time their wishes, that administering
Holy Baptism to four who were in danger of death be prevented and for the game.

At this time there came an Indian chief's sister Tambacurá, and fell at his feet very distressed
and grief for the governor of Santa Cruz de la Sierra sent his brother to turn to punish him,
and expressing his pain gave him so many reasons and taught such prayers and appeals the love
of blood, to deliver him from the blow, as I said, he had machined out of spite and envy your enemies,
which had to condescend to his Parents requests for hands touched
and they saw these people that they were not looking but to its usefulness
and that the chances were his shield and shelter, for fans this way
to our holy law.

This was his plan and intent, but not of God, which is often worth of human interests to bring
to an end the provisions of eternal providence. And such was the way these missionaries to
Santa Cruz de la Sierra, for going only to implore temporal life of an Indian God that brought them
out of all waiting for rescue to countless people from the bondage of the devil. Therefore part
of Guapay with Tambacurá to Santa Cruz, where he received with great
courtesy of Governor Don Agustín de Arce piísimo Knight, reached by
mercy and grace the lives of the poor man, who otherwise they have
been through a lot.

These demonstrations of esteem and affection for our parents forced you to trust him indicate
their plan to convert to the faith and to the Chiriguanos deign to
bring his authority against anyone who dared oppose the company.

It seemed the wise governor it was unnecessary to spend time and work with the Indians, so they began
with solid reasons to persuade the other hand straighten your thoughts and apostolic zeal, because
they were stubborn people into idolatry, savage in manners, and extremely
adverse to the laws and purity of the Christian life, and unstable
in the undertaking, that and other occasions had tried to reduce fervorosísimos
Missionaries, and after great work and fatigue had not taken another
fruit of their sweat but taunts, insults and bad treatment.

Now there was a very fresh memory fervorosísimo P. Martín del Campo, Province Peru, which after
several months spent with them, given his obstinacy, was seen compelled to go elsewhere to use
their fervor. I therefore advised the verifications look at other countries that do not lose
themselves and others happy they won.

Confined to that city Chiquitos Indians who had recently made peace with the Spanish and called
preachers of the Gospel, teach them the divine law. Could not the good governor to please them,
sending missionaries to the province of Peru for being such cultivar used in the nations of the Moxos,
so he offered to our missionaries the abundant harvest of the Gentiles, which would find in
their zeal to satisfy your taste, and increase their zeal field where the divine glory would not
be here over the work the fruit, or drop of sweat trickle down in this land, seed that was not
cogiesen the conversion of many souls. And to be undertaken with more heat this mission, write
of his hand very effective letters to the Provincial of the province,
to our Father General Tirso Gonzalez, his close friend.
