 Repulsive softness cut again exhaling a stench unbearable. Were opening trenches on a piece
of land that had served as a cemetery to the Turks. Bellies swollen split apart under the blades,
juices spilling its putrefaction. The need the guard had forced the Legion to live with his
face to the level of the bodies poking at the coalface of disturbed soil.

- The dead were like truffles on a cake - said the South American -. I had to stay a whole day with
my nose touching the guts of a Turk died two weeks before ... No, war is not chic, captain, though
talk of heroism and sublime things in newspapers and books.

Ulysses wanted to see again to the "three musketeers" before from Thessaloniki, but the battalion
had raised their field, located many miles inland, opposite the first Bulgarian lines. Blanes
enthusiast and fired his rifle against the murderers of Roger de Flor.

In mid-November came the Mare Nostrum Marseille. Its captain always experienced some admiration
to round the Cape Croisette, watching the bow opened to a vast Maritime curve. In the center of it, a
steep hill and moved towards the sea naked, holding at its peak the
basilica and the square tower of Our Lady of the Guard.

Marseille was the metropolis of the Mediterranean, the port terminal
for all boaters mare nostrum.

In the bay, from short waves rose several islands yellowish stripes foam, and one novel robust
towers Chateau d'If.

Everyone from Ferragut to the last sailors, looked like something out of city was hovering at
the bottom of the bay, its forests of masts and buildings crowding gray, over which shone the Byzantine
domes of the new cathedral. Around Marseille Chamber opened a dry bare heights, colored brightly
by the sun Provence.

The towns and villages dotting these slopes white and fortified towns, "Villas" of delight from
the merchants of the city. Beyond the semicircle, the horizon was enclosed by an amphitheater
of rough, dark mountains.

In previous trips, the sight of the giant Virgin golden, shining like a spear of fire on top of
Our Lady of the Guard, spreading the joy on the bridge ship.

- Marseille, Toni! - Said the captain merrily -. Invites you to a home bouillabaisse Pascal.

And
Toni contracted the hairy face of gluttony smile seeing in advance the famous restaurant port,
halls smelling of twilight to seafood and spicy sauces, and on the
table the deep dish of fish with a delicious broth tinged with saffron.

But

now Odysseus had lost his vigorous joy of life. Eyes gazed upon the city loving but sad. Was seen
disembarking the last time, ill, without a will, stunned by the tragic death of his son.

The Mare Nostrum came to the mouth of the old port, taking his right batteries Faro. The old port
was the most interesting memories of the former Marseille.

Penetrated as a Water Knife in the bowels of the settlement, the city extended their docks.
Was a square to the huge water that flowed all the streets, but their area was negligible for
maritime traffic, and eight new ports coming to cover the entire northern shore of the bay.

An
endless rubble, a wall longer than the city, stretched parallel to
the sea, and space between the bank and this obstacle, which required
to froth and roar to the waves, extending the eight large ports, communicating
with each other from the so-called de la Joliette, which was accessible
to as far Stake