 Today everything is interested and malice. Out of one another
as Ayala or Jusepe de la Hera, but no longer looking to fill soon and the bank. In my time beat
each sword as if we're looking at the world and God thyself. If not leave honored and enforced,
as it should be, do not we put on the market for all the gold of the Indies. Ah, when I was on a
sheet and sacábala finish last of the embers, color liver and the kidney anointed him to end
up putting it to cool, the heart was trembling, gentle sir!

Ramiro observed sideways at his partner. She wore a beautiful hazel color doublet hinted crimson
velvet doublet. A gold circlet around her sparkled high hat. Her sallow face, wide and bulky
to the front, was narrowing as a fig brown, to conclude her chin. Under yet black brows, shining
Two eyes sharp and nervous, who had lived tasting fair dye irons and following the arabesque of
ataujías. The fire had scorched their hands and dark warty like branches. His face looked serious
and stern expressed honor and firmness.

While Ramiro had always looked with aristocratic contempt anyone who debased their mechanical
trades hands, he thought this time that the wise manufacture of the weapons should be free of
villainy, as illustrious task in the service of the highest enterprises. In addition, he had
heard that Mr. Toledo did not disdain the treatment of espaderos distinguished and that the
forges of the city were meeting place and playground for the nobles.

Those architects were certainly deserving of special respect. Locked in the smoky workshop,
Domenico as iron Cyclops tenacious and brave fire, and were broadcast from one generation to
the priesthood of his master's rude. The passion of the race had claimed to use these steels highest
unique tool that distinguished honor and domination. Their daggers, their shields, their rapiers,
armor, had become so famous Toledo as the councils.

Domingo de Aguirre, having returned the sword, now supported both hands in his and continued saying

-
How much, sir, that weapons are no longer what they were, when we
see that the entire nation track to their doom?

Ramiro made a gesture of astonishment.

- Yes, sir knight, Spain lost. The Courts claim and the King does not hear. The commoner he is breaking
the backbone under the burden of taxes, sick industries worm of the
sales tax, cities chagrin, squalid camps.

Agora whole art private is to plunder the villages. Today all the Esquiline gnaw to the blood,
although perish tomorrow. Daca, daca, and Menga vénguese against which it comes.

- And you think your worship - said Ramiro - tribute that we should leave more or less honorable wars
that are settling our reputation around the world and the nation
will Spanish wonder of the coming centuries?

He said interruption polite accent, but are not counteract those verbs that began to interest
and that at times brought him to mind the words of Bracamonte.

- Wars honorable, sir, were those of yesteryear, when kingdoms were
won by the sword, - said the swordsmith, - but they all done that
or lost doubloons ailments.

Do you think perhaps your worship that the thirds are now to the war for the glory or the triumph
our holy religion? Today, as I do tell the soldier of an appetizer, which has little I wrote ...

He paused, mondo chest, and as a helper, he recited the following speech:

- Today, vote Lordy, no shield to defend as it sounds in the bag,
drummer you do go better than doubloons, more lucid than real silver.
Once risked life for the glory of the king, his face Hogan struck
in Segovia. Gánanse duchies with ducats, the streets of France with
their own guns, and I swear by Saint Andrew!, previously do heretics
quarters holgárame my pennies to quarters.

- Clever Language - Ramiro
said