 And
so, dismissed the governor turned away.

Guapay crossing the river, back to Tarija, they surrounded a large crowd of infidels, begging
founded a reduction in that place for care and attention to the good
of their souls, word given to them soon embrace all Christ's law.

Did not seem good to the Missionaries leave unhappy, therefore, raising at that place a ranch,
held, at the sight of the people, the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass, and because one day dedicated
to the Presentation in the Temple of Our Lady the Virgin placed under his patronage, and this
with both applause and delight of the natives, who ran the voice
of what happened to the other settlements, many caciques offered to
found Ranches with all his subjects.

Parents departed from here in Tarija to provide what is necessary to carry out that company,
and God our Lord, to reward past work and encourage them in their service in the hardships they
had to suffer on, then gave them the fruit of blessing barely born when transplanted into the heavenly
garden, this was just a child was washed stain of original sin in
the waters of Holy Baptism, when incontinently flew to enjoy God forever.

Was

unmatched comfort of these holy men with so noble gain, but not less demon rage such good guess
the great detriment principles that had to follow their interests, and if the Christian faith
and credit were gaining followers lose before long the domain of the country and as the evil and
damage was at the beginning and I could repair, tried with all their effort to root out those
good principles, for which was there on their side some very powerful rebels, both worse than
others his life, the ordinary is more lost in their ways who leaves the faith that who never
professed in his life.

Among these were two chiefs called Urban Garnica and Pedro de Santa Maria, who have for your
pleasure many concubines, had a very bad area in that country take Christ our Lord and his holy
law, which they had to see the country are compelled to abandon or to leave the mire of dishonesty.
Therefore, the enemy moved these infernal and more of the love of the flesh, began to spread
by the vulgar thousand calumnies against missionaries, and those much better for them was believed
the people, saying they were spies enemies, they did not intend to subject to anything other than
the Spanish, and under the pretext to reduce them to the Catholic faith, depriving them of
their ancient liberty, which would soon be hungry and desirous of those pleasures that now quench his
taste, would see their lean meat, behind black and blue from the blows of the new masters, whose
yoke loaded on their necks, along with that of Christ, and proof of that, they still had scars
on the body of strokes that led cruelísimos when Christians, even working day and night without any
compassion, to fill the bags at his expense of their masters, and similar to these other countless
lies told, as I came to tell her to pretend to try. They did not say the air, because now
I want the barbarians had become Christians was in its first fervor, they did much of a dent in
these sayings, however, cold in a little that first fervor, the rebels got their attempt to
stir up the country and angering the people to cast them to the parents and refer them to where
they came.

Already entered the year 1691, left the PP. Juan Bautista de Zea and Diego Centeno by the river
Guapay, to cultivate the new people of the Presentation, and P. Arce to the Salinas Valley,
where he went to great number of infidels, of which many fans and showed him others show him
bad face, sign of things to plotting in his heart, which was to kill him, as to not having been
performed so deterred from evil intent Tarichea Indians.

Apostolic Father sought here is to put things in the recent church but demon, blowing in the heart
of the apostates, the good Father worked in many weeks, which crumbled in a few hours, and
on the appendix to these disasters, he heard that Tobas, cruelísimos enemies of God and the
Spanish, having regard to their attempts, were as weapons, and many came destroying the country,
thus, waiting time on time its fury, they worked with great encouragement to receive death if
God Our Lord, in imitation of his subjects, who ran fame that had fallen into the hands of
those killed to evil and cruelty equal to their ferocity.

But as Our Lord with this misfortune, his servant did not want anything but the first tests and
novitiate of an apostolic life, he soon fade away those fears and there then notice that the PP. Zea
and Rye had come to rescue the people of the Presentation and that the Toba had retired to their lands,
which could certainly happen to Tarichea more haste to dispose the
minds of the people to embrace the holy faith.

Here he was received and hosted with love and benevolence of the local lord, who understood
the cause of his trip, he charged side take all the settlements of
the contour, they came together appointed day all the chiefs to council,
to resolve the business of conversion, and executed and the last day
of July, dedicated to our great Father and Patriarch Ignatius.

And why will the taste of the readers know the ceremonies and how they used in their assembly, give
them a brief and succinct news.

He entered parliament in the dead of night, were beginning to function with a symphony flutes
and fifes, and singing and dancing to the business they reasoned, concluding Each dance lasted
three or four faiths with toast.

At daybreak, although it was very cold wind that chilled, for being here this month heart winter,
they all went to bathe in the river, and to brighten up the party, adorned their heads shaved
tufts beautiful face very ugly color, imagining growing in beauty and beauty, when they seemed
so many devils.

Having already cleared up the day, took a breakfast for breath and spirit to continue their
agreement on the way as before. Who thought, or rather, who dared to hope no favorable resolution
in such a council? But despite that, determined by common consent to admit to their lands to Christ and
his holy law, and sent to give notice of its decision to P. Arce,
who under a bower was entrusted to our Lord with fervor this business,
but they put three conditions: First, that the reduction is based
on that place.

The second, which were not required to be banished from their land who would like to live in the
Gentiles, or to keep many women to use, and the third finally their children were not intended
to serve the Church.

The holy man accepted the party, waiting for the weather, and much more will the blood of Jesus
Christ I would soften the hearts and blessing those fruits of his zeal and his labors promised
them, or were ill-founded hopes for Taricú, paramount, on behalf
of all, thanked him for wanting to be used for the benefit of their
souls, and also gave to Our Lord because he had deigned to send him
no interest to teach them the way to heaven.

And because all this happened, as I said, the day consecrated to NPS Ignacio, tagged P. Reduction
Arce under his sponsorship.

While things are here with a favorable wind, I must give a brief relationship
of the province of Chiquitos, which was founded at the same time,
although so happier, a new Christendom, and will be the main target
of this my relationship.

CHAPTER II.

Location of the province of Chiquitos, customs and qualities of the natives.

The province, whom commonly call the Chiquitos, is an area of ??land of two hundred hundred miles
long and wide, on the west looks to Santa Cruz de la Sierra, and more away to the missions
of the Moxos, which belong to our province of Peru. By Levante down to the famous Lake Xarayes,
whom he rightly called the first sea Dulce conquerors, because of
its size and grandeur.

Tramontana closes by a large Chain mountains rather long, which ran from the east to west, ending
in the lake. For Chaco looks to the south and to a large lake, or rather, Gulf of the Paraguay
River, which here is a beautiful bay, whose shores are populated by a large variety of trees
and called from its inception this cove or harbor within the Itatines.

To bathe the province of Chiquitos two rivers, one the Guapay, who born in the mountains of
Chuquisaca down on an open plain beside a village in the Chiriguaná called ABAP and running towards
the East, encloses them lengthwise into half-moon, to Santa Cruz de la Sierra; and pulling
here between Normans and the West, water and bathe the plains that are at the foot by both parties,
and finally empties into the Mamore gap in the coast of which are founded some peoples, and Christians
of Moxos. The other, the tools or San Miguel, born in the Alps Peru, and going through the Chiriguanos
(on whose land changes its name into that of Parapity) is eventually lost in a very dense forest,
the many twists and turns until about Santa Cruz la Vieja, which
was founded last year Reduction St. Joseph, and turning between Normans
and west, bathing the San Francisco Xavier reductions and Conception
where straight strip at noon, and receiving in his mother's many streams
contour Reductions passes Baur, who belong to the missions of the
Moxos, and hence will to flow into the Mamore, and this in the great
river of the Maranon, or Amazon.

The country, for the most part is mountainous and populated by very dense forests, very abundant
honey and wax for the great multitude of bees of various species, among which is a Opemús breed
called the most similar to those of Europe, whose honey is odoriferous and fragrant and its
wax-white, although a little soft. Also abound in many monkeys, roosters, turtles, elk, deer,
mountain goats and snakes and vipers of strange poisons, because there are some that bite swell
after the bodies of patients and blood drip for all her limbs, eyes, ears, mouth, nose and even
nails, but the suffering, as check for so many parts that foul humor, does not die. Others
there whose venom (although they bitten on the toe) is up to the point at the head, removing
and depriving forces trial, and hence spreading into the veins inevitably
kill, causing delirium, and so far they have not been able to find
effective relief.

The soil of yours is dry, but in the rainy season, which lasts from December to May, so deformed
drowns the campaign, which closes the trade and are many rivers and
large lakes, which abound in many kinds of fish, which fish with some
pasta that stunned bitter come to the surface of the water.

After the winter dry plains and then to plant it is necessary to remove large working forests
and cultivate the hills and mountain peaks that yield very good corn or Indian wheat, rice,
cotton, sugar, snuff and other fruits typical of the country, as
bananas, pineapples, peanuts, pumpkins (which is a kind of squash,
better and tastier than those in Europe), the grain, however, and
the vita, you can not take on these lands.

The climate is warm and intemperate, apoplectic cause of many accidents and frequent infections
they usually do great in natural curls, because these barbarians do not know how to apply,
but two remedies. The first is sucking sick bodies, trade their own chiefs and captains in their language
called Iriabós, which in this office are a lot of room between natural, all too gain, because
instead of cooking the chicken and other delicious viands for ill, it eats all the sucking, and sick
but do not give ordinary lunch box a handful of corn rather undercooked, and if you do not
want to eat, do not give much care, happy patient's response: why should I eat if I have won?
So I have to me The more die from necessity rather than diseases, which are not related to other aforesaid
doctor to show the painful and tell you where they've gone on record: this passes on to consider
whether the patient has poured chicha (a drink something like beer) it has thrown to the dogs a piece
of turtle meat, deer or other living; and if he is guilty of this crime, said that the souls
of these animals, to avenge his injury he has entered the body, and torments him to measure
his reproach. Where is that give any relief against the suck, or in the soil also give strong
blows to the baton around the patient to scare and drive away her soul. This remains the suffering
as before, if not perhaps happen by chance that heal naturally.

Hase observed in these doctors after receiving Holy Baptism, as much as they can not throw a dirty
and smelly subject as they once did every time suck a member of the patient, giving the devil
for careless in maintaining the implied covenant that they had, because
explicit and some had none.

The other remedy is very cruel and barbaric own, and it was killing women who are persuaded
were the cause of the disease (may be his biggest that they had some light by a woman had entered
the world of death) and throwing them out of this world, be they free thought Tribute to death.
So touting the doctor to tell them what a woman had given them that disease in your body, and
he said it was this or that it is first offered or with whom he had some anger, or their husband
or relatives and taking one to the miserable removed fists and truncheons to life. And still did
not realize the deception, even seeing from experience that did not use anything to escape
death this recipe. It comes from a foolish imagination that diseases are from extrinsic causes
not the interior alteration of moods because they are not able to come to penetrate understanding
is not enough to where the coarseness of the physical senses (owned by all West Indians),
or that are otherwise awake and working for others. And seeing that the Missionaries purges and
cured with salt, did not fully persuaded that the blood and other fluids that feed the bottom
of the man could be corrupted and cause evil effects and bad impressions even in the soul, for
this, for the slightest indisposition they wanted to bleed, and asking his arm, he replied that
not, but their share hurt, had to be bleeding, and experimenting with these remedies improvement
were hand to the old doctors scoffed at his fraud and deceit and cruelty that had execrating
used against women.

They are lively and fiery temperament than the ordinary in these nations, good understanding,
lovers of good, nothing inconsistent or inclined to evil, and so tight to the dictates of
natural reason, and they are among those vices and blemishes sensual meat at every step they look and
cry in other countries and converted Gentiles. His stature is more than the ordinary median,
facial features not unlike ours, although the color is olive, to which is easily distinguished
from Europeans; in the past twenty years, grow their hair, and who has better and larger,
has on a certain beauty other lordly, not breed a beard, but late
and low