 The
true story of whose face now we draw a broad brush, they were not in general, even middle class,
or get the best education in Cuba, and not believe Effortless traits of courtesy and affection in
any circumstances have anything of delicate or thin.

- That says something Cantalapiedra, "someone said.

- Cantalapiedra
says nothing when he eats, he said while roi a turkey leg.

- Well,
do not eat if it is to silent, jumped another.

- That's not because
I eat and I will say until doomsday, "said the commissioner.

How do you want, without But say if I have not soaked the throat?

- There goes my glass! Here is mine! Take it! cried at least ten voices, et al so many arms were
crossed on the table in the direction of the commissioner, who, after
holding a another cup, each filled with a different wine, it was throwing
to the doublet, with no again shows the effect that caused him to
wear something aguársele ruddy and eyes.

Then filling his own glass of champagne rich, coughed up the chest voice and Campanula, although
if it is a raspy, said:

- Bomba! In the native happy my friend Merceditas Ayala, Tenth:

I say on occasion, Merceditas of my eyes, Keep your eye thorns For
that punctures the heart.

    
    Ten of a sad pity, That
    your eyes sighs That your eyes
    raving, That encourages your eyes, That supports your eyes This life
of lies.

    
    
    After this improvisation
    vulgar and distasteful, cheers
    and applause rang out loud
    and repeated, with discordant banging dishes with knives.

And as a reward for his poetry work, for it was an olive skewered on the same fork that had carried food
to the mouth, a slice of ham Esoteric, beyond that of a piece of turkey, of it a candy, sugar
neighboring yolk until the Ayala ended the rising stream of gifts and passing his cup full of
Jerez, Leonardo to improvise also as it had done the commissioner complacent. He took advantage
of the truce that implicitly granted him to leave the table, go straight, but secretly, until
the edge of the well, where two fingers in his mouth, he threw what he had eaten and drunk, which was
not little. And very cool, spare back to the table. Thanks to a expeditious means as simple
as, could turn to eat and drink as if it had not tested morsel or drop last all night. Of the
other men who had drunk too much and unaware Cantalapiedra effective remedy, which more than
less, few were right to have firm the head, not excepting the very young Leonardo.

In this unfortunate circumstance is attributable to so fine a young man as well educated, also
pay to make songs and for the sake of that hero of the party. But rather than was wrong, being
applauded and given not less than the previous balladeers, though
it was noted that far Cecilia Valdés to celebrate, like the others,
his poetic effort, remained silent and visibly run.

Nemesia neither took part in the celebration, but because very otherwise, namely: to be engaged
in a rapid and secret dialogue with his brother Joseph Dolores Pimienta.

- He shall not idle the rear? told him.

- Maybe not, she replied.

- And how do you know?

- Since I know many things.

Do I need not give me the food with a spoon?

- Yeah, but you do not explain.

- Because there is no time now.

-
Sobrado, sister.

- Then, the walls have ears.

- Go!

When you scream.

- Come on, do not be stubborn.

I tell you do not.

- I do not waste the opportunity.

- You will have a hard time.

-
What do I care if my taste?

- I repeat, Jose Dolores, do not get
a shirt of eleven staff.

Do not be headstrong.

With that stubbornness me off to help. I understand that better than you, I'm seeing.

Before the noise had been calm voices, claps and beats on the plates and table, Leonardo said
something in secret to Cecilia, and took to the streets dragging Meneses by the arm, without
saying goodbye to anyone, the French, as he said when he drove Cantalapiedra less. Once outside,
despite the drizzling rain, two young, long arm, took walk the streets of Havana to the city center,
and the first corner, which was of San Isidro, Meneses Leonardo went straight and took the
return of Paula Hospital.

Light clouds, light dark, torn apart by the cool wind from the northeast, passing a after another
at fairly regular procession ahead of the waning moon, which went beyond the zenith, and sometimes
dropped white light rays. The cross street, narrow and twisted carrying the young Leonardo
is not cleared again, or did he see his way right until came to the square of the hospital before,
and then only the left side is lit at times, because the walls of the church of Paula, high
and dark, projected double shadow over free space. Leaning on them, however, could make his
carriage, horses which dropped their heads and ears, eager to avoid the rain and wind that
hurt them in the face. He lay the cap and did not look for any rider part, either in the saddle,
used his position, or behind, or in the recess of the door wide of the church, which could serve
warm. But a second look at Leonardo knew where was. Sitting in the pesebrón of chitin, dangled
his legs covered with boots Bell, as he rested his head and arms, medium back in the spring
pads of Morocco. On the floor lay the quarter that the dream had come off the hands, Leonardo
picked it up to the point, lifted a cap and singing with all his might hit two or three lashes
on and holding by the shoulders forward.

- Lord! cried the coachman, between scared and sore, descending.

Standing and could be seen was a mulatto boy, very stocky, broad shoulders and face, stronger if
not higher than that just warm your back with cowhide. Dressed in the style of your office on the island
of Cuba, dark cloth jacket, braid trimmings quilted jacket, the collar fisherman's pants,
linen, huge boots bell, by way of spats, and round black hat, gold braid. We should mention
also, as the hallmarks of coachman, double silver spurs, which had no at the time the mulatto now
speaks.

- Listen! said his master, for it was indeed the young Leonardo, slept soundly, while the horses
were at will. Huh?

What would have happened if frightened by chance, they run through
the streets of Barabbas?

- I was not sleeping, child dared to look
at the coachman.

- "So not sleep?

Aponte Aponte, you seem to not know me or think I suck finger. Look, mounts, which adjust accounts.
Take the chitin to the crib, making the two girls who brought it and lead them home. I wait
at the wall of Santa Clara, street corner in Havana. Mount allows no one behind. Do you understand?

-
Yes, sir, Aponte said, starting toward the checkpoint San Jose.

At the door dance house, without dismounting, he said to a stranger who then entered:

- Do I you please tell the girl Cecilia here is the chitin?

Despite the addition of girl that made use of the coachman talking about Cecilia, which is only
Cuba applied to the white class youth, the stranger passed without error message or doubt. Incontinent
She left the table and went to take his blanket, followed by Nemesia and Ayala. The latter
accompanied them to the front door, where already had grouped the few men who had not been fired.
There, still bearing the waist Cecilia, a sign of friendship and
affection, said:

- Do not trust men, china, because it takes to lose.

-
And I have trusted in any of these hours, Merceditas?

Cecilia said surprised.

- Yeah, but that chitin has an owner, and no one gives clubs for nothing. Keep it for granted.
I think I explain.

With this and pretend Cantalapiedra who cried Cecilia's departure,
which caused much laughter, and it climbed into the carriage Nemesia
shaking hands Pepper, and indeed was disrupted the meeting.

Could then be the one in the morning. The wind had fallen and the rain stopped which from time to
time, throwing the flying clouds over the sleeping city and in darkness. As says the vulgar
expression, was dark as pitch. Not so, however, young musician lost track of carriage driving
his sister and her friend, before by the noise of the wheels on the stony floor of the streets,
he was following the water the first step and then stepping trot until he reached about Acosta
Street. He put his hand on the table behind, was promoted to the race course and was wearing
mounted to the philandering. At once he felt the coachman .-- Get out and got high, he said Nemesia through
the grating .-- No why, "said Cecilia keeping .-- I am going back, Pepper said .-- Alight You
said at that time Aponte, who had already dismounted .-- Did not I tell you? added Nemesia,
speaking with his brother .-- Herein is my sister and my friend, noted musician turning to
the coachman .-- said it will be well, but I do not let anyone to ride back My chitin. Spoils,
comrade; added noting that he had lost as a mulatto it .-- Get down,
Nemesia repeated insistently.

Due José Dolores Pimienta, knowingly after a terrible fight and it deaf same, in the triumph of
prudence, but yielding and everything at that juncture, did not give to the decision taken to continue
the carriage. Remounted and continued the race calesero lead straight to the street light,
twisting there left to Havana. Near the barrel of the corner was a man standing, sheltered from
the wind and the fine drizzle with the high walls of the courtyard belonging to the monastery
of nuns Claras. At that point, stopped a second time Aponte chitin, the man went quietly to
the rear, then said softly: Arrea! Then left it to escape, but not without time to be close
enough musician to realize that the guy who replaced him in behind the carriage was the same
white boy, Leonardo, who had inspired so jealous in the crib.

     
     CHAPTER VII
     
     What man is how he Muscat's business, is discrete shameful or sweet
or embittered?

         

     

LOPE DE VEGA

The digger

In the district of San Francisco and one of the least crooked streets, with sidewalks and slabs
in a block or two, had, among others, a house roof, which was distinguished
by the floor high above the arch of the door and balcony to the west.

General admission, as nearly every house in the country - for owners, servants, cattle and
carriages, two of which was usually on duty - was on the porch, or garage casapuerta species,
leading the dining room, patio and fourth desks.

Called under this last name that looked right, then the hallway, occupied, the first by a double
fold merchant, with two high wooden benches, one on each front, and
underneath a small iron box, square instead of door had lid to open
or close, where it was stored or taken out bags of money.

On the opposite side of the house was lower row of rooms for the family, with input common room,
door and window and patio dining.

This was a quadrilateral, in which the protruding center blue stone parapet of the pit or tank,
where, through tin channels and pipes buried in the ground stormwater
was discharged into the roofs.

A wall six feet in elevation, with a arc towards the far right, separating the patio from the
kitchen, stable, latrine, quarter of the rickshaw pullers and other rooms of the house.

Between the entrance and the rooms called desks, down to the dining room, leaning against the
wall boundary, a rough stone staircase with railings cedar without plateau or more rest the
violent turn that made the last steps near the foot. This ladder communicated rooms with high, composed
of two parts: the first was an antechamber, so large as the hall, the second, even more, like I had
the same dimensions as desks on which was built and served as a bedroom and study. In fact,
main furniture that filled almost, was a bed or cot frame of mahogany, covered renge fly with
a blue, a wooden cabinet that own a casaquero or perch of the same, a black couch bristle, a few
straw-seated chairs, a table as buffet, and a hearty chair. [9] On such furniture were several
books about open, others closed or with one or more sheets folded by the tip, pasted to the
Spanish with red edge, all apparently of legislation, could be seen, reading the signs golden
on the spines of some. On the couch, only two newspapers in pamphlet form: the most large with
a very bad recorded figurines depicting a man, woman and a child
and was titled The Weekly Leisure fashion, [10] On the other nag.

[11]

Downstairs in the dining room table was a mahogany wing, able to twelve covered, up to six seats
in two rows facing the door of the room, in the indispensable jarrero angle, sui generis furniture
in the country, and to provide the piece dark and shield reverberation of the sun in the courtyard,
had two great curtains of canvas, which is wound and developed just as the theater curtains. In the
dividing wall between the hall and the room had an iron grating, and to make way for the outside
light in the latter, two windows of the same cantilever, which from the ground level of the
street rose to the eaves of the roof. Main beam by chains hung pump crystal side wall two
oil paintings, representing a lady and a gentleman in the prime of life, made by Escobar [12]
under their couch, and in the direction perpendicular to it, two rows, six chairs with seat and
back of Moroccan red, at the four corners, mahogany corner cabinets adorned with guardabrisas glass
or china vases. On the wall between windows, a high table with gilded feet and above a rectangular
mirror, filling intermediate gaps, chairs profusely.

Of note was the white muslin curtain with fringe of cotton hanging from the lintels doors and windows of
the rooms, to provide safe passage for air and hide its secrets from the looks of those who passed
by the dining room and patio. In short, the house that, peculiarly Havana, as will be thrown
to see on the fine description of it we did, breathing everywhere toilet, cleaning y. .. estate,
because that can be called, in fact, if you have regard to the country, the time of that speech,
style and quality unfurnished, the two carriages in the hall and
the very ability of the dwelling.

"Here lived a decent family, well educated and happy? We will see shortly.

At the time our story begins, between six seven in one day October, occupied a seat in the dining
room of a gentleman of some fifty years old, tall, robust, graying hair, aquiline nose, large,
small mouth, and bright brown eyes, the color of his face ruddy, round head from behind, these characteristic
signs strong passions and strength of character. Her short hair, shaved his beard completely;
chintz dressing gown cut down on long white pique vest, jeans and slippers ante. Feet resting
on a chair with straw seat with both hands had the eyes a Spanish newspaper printed on line
from the common folio entitled The Journal Havana.

[13]

As I read you had a boy about twelve years old, dressed in jeans and listadillo shirt, coming from the
back of the yard and brought in the right hand a cup coffee, put on a plate, and the other a silver
sugar bowl. The gentleman, without straightening in the chair, took the cup, softened and began
to sip and read quietly, while the servant, with arms crossed over his chest, was standing
before him, keeping in the hands respective plate and sugar. Once the potion of coffee, even
though the boy was a few steps, he said in a thundering voice: - Snuff and fire! Career that went
into the kitchen and returned to the quarterfinals little desks, then bringing a large bladder
with some cigarettes [14] coiled in the bottom and a silver brazier with a charcoal grill, half
buried in a pile of ashes.

The gentleman turned a cigarette and when the boy was about to start
the race again, he shouted: - Tirso!

- Lord! also said loudly as
if they were in the kitchen or talking to deaf.

- Have you been up?
asked the master.

- Yes, sir, from then reached the place to cook.

-
How Leonardo is that the child has not dropped yet?

- You mean your
favor that the child does not want to Leonardo dispierten when it
has passed bad night.

- Bad night!

Knight repeated mentally.

Anda (the slave), wake him up and down.

- Lord, "the boy said hesitantly and confusing. Lord, your mercy knows ...

- What happens? thundered the master again, after he perceived that
the slave was stopped and he had not obeyed.

- Sir, is mean to your
mercy, that the child gets mad when dispiertan, y. ..

- What?

What? Ah! Dog! Walk, run or you will get on kicks.

And as the gentleman hereby incorporated to execute the threat, did
not wait to repeat it to obey the order.

In four hops was at the top of the stairs, disappearing in the bedroom
of the young Leonardo.

At the same time the boy ran upstairs peeked through the door of
the room a lady a bit thick, beautiful, lovable appearance, tiny factions,
his hair still black, but past forty-old Dutch dressed in white bugle,
and warm with a blanket of color Burato Islands and all of it very
neat and calm and ladylike gesture.

He sat beside the gentleman of the gown, who, asking for news of the day, gave the name of Gamboa.
This he said between his teeth that the only important that brought The Journal was the appearance
of cholera morbus in Warsaw which raged frightening.

- And where is that? asked Mrs. yawning.

- Takes! Gamboa said. That's far away. Imagine, there, near the North Pole, in Poland. He has
to shoot Mr anger to reach us, and then ... Nowhere be you and me!

- God save us hours dwindling, Candido! she cried the lady with the
same air of laziness before.

Tirso down here the double precipitation steps, if possible, to that with which had risen, and
not because your head down time, it will reach a book thrown at him
from above, which, with the violence of the coup was smashed in the
door the desktop.

Don Candido looked up and the lady got up and went to the foot of the steps in, asking: - What
was that?

For answer the boy, very scared, we Eye said the young Leonardo, who was on top, wrapped in the
sheet, with clenched fists in a sign of anger and threat. But no sooner discovered his mother
because what was that lady, he changed his attitude and countenance, and would certainly explain
the occurrence, when she held a sign making very significant, equivalent, more or less to
say: - Quiet, that is where your father. So he, without further ado, he turned and be returned
to the bedroom.

- Leonardo Comes the child? Gamboa said the slave, as if the race had not noticed of this, the librazo
desk against the door or the actions of his wife.

- Yes, sir, "replied Tirso.

- Did you give my message?

Don Candido insisted on more voice loud and harsh.

- You want to tell your worship, "replied the slave all confused and
trembling, that ... the child ... Leonardo child did not give me time.

The lady had sat down again, and still full of anxiety the words and
movements the face of her husband.

She saw him turn red as you let go of the few phrases Tirso that in his confusion was able to
use, yet he seemed about to rise, perhaps to strike the slave, or drive down by force Leonardo
whose confusing alternative to gain time, he dropped his right hand on the left arm and said in
a low musical voice:

- Candide, Leonardite dresses for fall.

- And how do you know? Don Candido said with great vividness, turning to his wife.

- I see half-dressed, on top of the stairs, "she said calmly.

- Well,
you are always aware of when Leonardo does his duty, but are blind
to their faults.

- I do not know the porbrecito has done nothing,
at least recently.

- Ya!

Did not I tell you? Blind, blind girl, Rosa, your mamanteos going
to lose that kid.

Tirso! Don Candido thundered.

Tirso return before the kitchen, where he had taken refuge after their masters engaged the last, brief
dialogue, entered the hall below the mulatto coachman who already know our readers, that scene
in the neighborhood of San Isidro and night of 24 September. Now wearing only shirt and pants
whose legs were rolled up to just over below the knees, and to reveal the edge of the white
briefs, which was teeth instead of borders. The shoes were of very low-cut cowhide with silver
buckle next door, and had gold rings in her ears, head kerchief, hat straw in his right hand and
left the halter of a horse that brought rabiatado other the same color and prints, both fresh
from the bath, then dripped water or even sweat and the latter had made a knot tail. The mulatto
had ridden the first since the stable the bathroom, near the Pier Light, because I still had
the blanket in the absence of chair.

- But here's Aponte, said Don Candido seeing him hover. Aponte!

- No need to ask the servants brought Rosa.

- I want you to hear a recent thank your son, "said the man.

At what time brought last night (talking to Aponte) your master?

-
At two o'clock in the morning, said Aponte.

- Where did your love
the night?

Don Candido said.

- It is useless to say it, "interrupted the lady.

Aponte, takes these horses to the manger.

- Where did your love the night? Don Candido repeated in a voice of thunder, seeing the coachman
provisions to obey the order of her mistress.

- It is difficult to me to tell my master at his mercy, where he spent
the night my love Leonardite child.

- What!

How do you understand?

- I tell her mercy, my lord, it is very difficult, Aponte hastened
to explain, noting Don Candido flew into a rage, because first I took
the child to Santa Leonardite Catarina, I took him to spring disposed
Light, arranged as I waited on the dock of Light until twelve o'clock,
I took another turn willing to Santa Catarina, willing ...

- Enough!

Rosa said angrily. 'm Aware.

Aponte was removed with the horses, through the dining room and patio in the direction of the stable
and Don Candido, turning to his wife, he said:

- What do you-a-elements-such?

Do not you think recently as last night? I knew nothing, only suspected, because I know my child better
than you, and you've heard that rule has been in until noon night.

Maybe it was not alone. Want to hear now with whom and how he spent
half the time Ruler? Can not you guess? Do not you suspect?

- Assuming
you guessed it, it felt, Rosa noted with slight contempt, what would
draw? Would you leave me to love him for that as I want?

- But if
it is not love him or desquererle, Rosa, sprang impatient Don Candido