 Knowledge is created, and create knowledge. All this is a piece of belarminianas
speculation. What is the attitude prolonged sedentary leisure discourse! ... The philosophers are men squatting,
even peripato, which, if explained walking, squatting built his system. Continues. It follows that if
the dictionary is all that we said, Collins is as good as cosmos. Bellarmine, under the reciprocity
of both of words, and to avoid confusion, the reverse had been set for its use, the use and significance
each of them, and when he said the cosmos, it meant the dictionary, and when he said the dictionary,
I wanted to understand the universe. If asked to give her Sorrows cosmos, the girl, from experience,
and knew he had to deliver this tome, which, for it was so logical that it was called cosmos
as easily be called a dictionary. But - continued belarminiana speculation - and most men live
in the dictionary - is ie in the world - unaware that they live, and also access and read the cosmos
- is say, the dictionary - unaware of what they read. To live is to know and knowing is creating,
give a name. When a man called a tree to a tree because I've heard call it that, that man do
not know the tree does not know what he says if he knew the tree, he had created himself, would
have given a new name. And now comes the most subtle of speculation belarminiana. In the cosmos
- that is, in the dictionary - are the names of all things, but they are misapplied, because
they are applied as usual mechanics and so that, far from causing an act of knowledge and creation,
promote the routine, ignorance, stupidity, garrulous chatter and vulgar speech, vacuum and
memorable. Are the names in the cosmos - is ie in the dictionary - like birds in cages, living or
drugged and hidden in graves with seven seals. Bellarmine was a way of mystical pleasure, a
way of communication absolute direct and intimate perception of the essence of things when the seals
broke burial to be lifting up the living buried, and opened the cages for birds saliesen flying.
Read the words of the cosmos - that is, the dictionary - avoiding, with the most scrupulous,
that the definition rozasen their eyes that they were accompanied. Read one, in rigor, not to read
it, saw it, physically, escaping from the straw folios, walking on the floor, or fly in the
air, or diluted hazily on the roof. Were sometimes beings, others were things other concepts
and ideas, other sensations of the senses, others delicate emotions. Maybe it produced results
that, for a superficial spirit, could seem comical, but in the end, everything was very serious.
Camel said the cosmos - that is, the dictionary -, and Bellarmine saw, in fact, spring from the
page on the quadruped ruminant though much diminished proportions, and slowly walk out on the
floor, but the few steps, the profile of the beast, although it was winding deformations are still
evolving, transformed, the animal was put on two feet, appeared dressed in uniform head without
losing the original expression, taking human traits, the humps became saddlebags hanging to his
chest and back, and one of the bags out a large briefcase. Bellarmine be just a dictionary
to understand - that is, the sensible world - and, knowing, had created a new word. Camel, thereafter,
would mean to him, Minister of the Crown. Camel meant priest or minister of the Lord, after
a process similar evolution. Do not think that in the lexicon belarminiano voices and dromedary
camel involving contumelious or derogatory intent, but on the contrary, admiring implied understanding.
Alluded to the desert of indifference in which they move and the ruler as the priest, sobriety
who practice or have practiced, the leading heavy burden on the shoulders, and Finally, the
hump have symbolized the responsibilities attached to the spine itself dorsal, and that the
ruling is twofold, to God and to men, and the priest simple, only to God. And hence, hump =
responsibility, a new act of creation in the cosmos - that is, in the dictionary - Bellarmine. Different
words produced only sense of physical qualities. But the words that most eagerly sought, which
he transition of enthusiasm in understanding and creating new ones were those that he seemed
to him philosophical terms and, therefore, expressed an intangible concept: metempsychosis,
Scholastic, scurvy., etc. After a revelation not a little difficult to interpret, Belarmino had
defined so those three terms: metempsychosis is the same as intricacies indecipherable unknowable,
das ding an sich of Kant, and comes from psychosis, or intrigues, and sticks, enter, hide, put
in appearances intricacies simple. Scholastic is as follows irrational opinions of others, like
the tail of the irrational is to the body. Scorbutic Pessimism is as good as, and is a raven, bird
dark and ominous. It was a lot man that Bellarmine!

The hovel where philosophized and mended shoes Bellarmine was well below the street level. It descended
from the portal by stone steps. Walls, whitewashed, with greenish capricious arabesques, of
moisture. Light received by a window landscape, with iron bars, which bordered on the inside with
the ceiling and tore off flush with the road, for there got a flood of light ashy compact, as in
the tables represent appearances, and spilled, like a baptism, on the left side of Bellarmine.
Through the window you saw pass the legs of the pedestrians knee
down, making a rhythmic sound on the flagstones.

Bellarmine believed found providentially put in the bowels of the earth, placed in the root and
foundation of things, and that men know it was best to see them nothing but the feet, which
are the basis and foundation of the people. But, deep in this shadowy den, office where it is
distilled and clarified the mysteries of thought and existence, continually astride his mount
around, it was Clavileño and it was Pegasus, exempting Bellarmine of gravity and slavery of matter
flying through space freely fantastic hung in the areas uranium watched the dictionary - ie
the world - from perspectives so remote, that perhaps it made him dizzy and goosebumps. As Belarmino,
although Father Alesón regarded him senseless, it was a very sensible man, he realized the
irreparable harm that threatened him, and was so high that one day astray beyond the clouds
and not I could go to trade and relations with other men. Every time I took off a dead word
and created a living word, it was like throw ballast overboard and acquired new amount of
upward force. "There may come a time when you can not talk to me daughter, because I do not understand
or understand me and to think I'm crazy, "and his heart was suspended. What to do? Point coincided
with the solution. Should retain the ballast, rather than increasing energy tried to follow up,
should strive, at any cost, not to be forgotten vulgar language, so using it with her daughter and with
someone else of his affection, if required. But how to avoid forgetting, if he was almost always
alone? The Intelet whispered something in the skull, and Bellarmine took to the streets, was walking
to the village, and the first village commissioned a magpie who seek him and took the hole.
I had heard that the Magpies, with patience and good wine, they are taught to speak. I would
have preferred a parrot, but had no money and doubted that they were in the market. Arrived a few
days later, the villager with the magpie, white and black as the Dominican Fathers. "Now, to
teach the most vulgar language possible," he said Belarmino, not without some grief and perplexity,
because he was not tempted occurred vulgarities nor wits to invent. Looking wistfully at the
magpie and its glossy plumage Dominican association of images occurred to him that the Father
Alesón could get the rush, and went to ask him to lend him a book of poetry and a speech. Bellarmine
considered poetry and oratory as more vulgar forms of speech. The Dominican lent Selgas a volume
of speeches and a brochure Don Alejandro Pidal y Mon. Bellarmine cut guides to bird wings
and put him in the dark bottom of the barrel. They gave strong white wine soup, and bending
over the barrel would read, separating clearly the words, verses and paragraphs Selgas Pidal.
As some Once Pidal read this sentence: "Jáctome to be scholastic," Belarmino said: "I had
smelt, also claims to be Bellido scorbutic ....» The magpie did not learn to speak, but Belarmino
not impatient and reluctant resignation that bath plenty of vulgarity, more for convenience and
to not let go the ropes with the world, that educational interest to the avechucho. Colignon
began to see, but ignore the cause, which spoke Bellarmine More on Christian, and so he said one
afternoon. Belarmino, taking pains to express themselves in romance Palladian, which was causing
more hassle Apollonius still speak in prose, he said

- For many intentions - intentions = reasons -. First, because I love you. I want to you because
you love me. Second .... Do not know how to tell him not to be gaunt and spare unpleasant pesos
.-- Haggard = violent, cruel, weight = feeling. Bellarmine paused the gleanings of explicit phrases
.-- You are kind of matter, I am the spirit. You look forward to things, and I, away from things.
You are yes, and I no. O if you want, you are not and I said yes. Am I superior to you? Not so.
Neither yes is greater than not, neither is superior to another, but the yes and no are higher
than those me. I understand that you are as a philosopher like me, albeit in a belligerent Belligerent
.-- = Contrary, opposite .-- In contrast, most men are not yes and no, but on what I know, they
do not know, or feel, nor live, nor matter. What do I have with them? Why Why should I speak their
language? You are something else. I wish you understood my language. But as a philosopher
you are belligerent, and I love him, and also instructed me to you
and I use as a touchstone, because you are the not my own, or another
of my no, and We both completed, so it strives to speak for me you
understand me.

- Épatant, épatant, my dear Belarmino - said the confectioner
in glad amazement -.

I understand. I am an Epicurean and Stoic you, is not it?

Bellarmine imprisoned in the pantry of memory the two words: Epicurean and Stoic, to later transmuted
by the alchemy of speculation and to find their true meaning.

One day he appeared in the den of Bellarmine Froilan Escobar, aka Estudiantón and Aligator,
to secure his midsoles shovels and a pair of boots, to become a real pair of boots did not
need, in addition to the blades and midsoles, but reinforcement in the buttress, pieces of cane
and a few buttons. Precisely, the only hobby Bellarmine zapateril art was to restore old shoes,
the older the better, and miserable spoils create a brand new pair. It was a family hobby his
vocation philosophical. And so, welcomed those valetudinarian Alligator boots or with marked
Estudiantón reverence and affection.

Nicknames are, when brief biography, when miniature portrait.

The two nicknames Froilan Escobar story and portrayed. He had been twenty years of attending the University,
and not because he was unfit to pass the courses, it was of considerable
natural clearance.

Said: "The man who wants to meet a student's life until death. Nothing is so disgusting as the
science that is acquired to obtain a degree and earn an income with
it.

There is no science that disinterested science, science for science, the love of knowledge, the
knowledge that you never know enough to charge money for teaching the little we know. "And another
portion of the maximum at the same tenor. Not wanting to buy science, was enrolled, and attended
the classes for free of different faculties. Hence, he dubbed the Estudiantón. Living with extreme
poverty and wore disaster a cap with two fingers of substance; gabancillo brown one with milk,
which was released in coming to the University and wore with the collar turned up, to conceal
the lack of shirt and pants with fringe, and as the usual boots. It resembled the dead color,
as advised by the oracle Zeno, the philosopher, which, properly understood,
it means so much to study books pallor had taken them.

He was able to stay at a nearly superhuman quietism. During school hours kept the same posture sometimes
quiet and attentive, without moving muscle, unblinking eyes clouded by a dull scum of the second
lid mode lizards. And hence nicknamed him Aligator. Sometimes it concerns rushing seizures of
vermin and twists of Sibyl, by subject and explain how the professor, and in such cases took shorthand
notes, fiercely shaking his desk. Students admired him, respected him and would coach him. It
was like the familiar spirit of the university Pallas Athena in that the walled enclosure of
knowledge, one dressed as Athena mask. Also the official science establishment envestía, too
often, costumes of mess.

Could not be submitted to the Estudiantón Belarmino most effective recommendation letter or card
more honorable than that so-called pair of boots, because in fact it was a quarter or an eighth
of boots. Bellarmine rested lovingly in their hands such waste, which he germs or embryos were
a brand new future, and looked at Aligator with tender interest when he suddenly noticed that
either lacked about four cubic feet of breathing air was slightly less than that contained slum;
had entered the Father Alesón, evicting air volume for the volume of flesh and bone.

- Good afternoon, Belarmino - speaking Dominican, modulating the sharper notes and caresses of laryngeal
Piccolo -. Came and went. Came into your room and leave my residence. Out of my distraction and my agreement
entered Alesón .-- Father was now talking in this style conceptualized and wrapped to give the taste
of Bellarmine and win his affection .-- I mean, vulgar language, that I remembered going out
Telesforo Don Rodríguez, Professor the seminar, asked me a book I lent you some time: Nicolai garciae;
tractatus of beneficiis. Have you read it? "I can take it? Because if you have not read yet,
I do not 'll take it. You have to get more out that Don Telesforo, surely.

Bellarmine Clavileño dismounted and handed his Father Alesón a large volume, the fourth largest, aforrado
parchment.

- I've read. It has been very instrumental.

- Well, I'm glad. Hello, hello - said the Dominican, turning at the bottom of the barrel rebullía
and magpie squawked -.

Anguish and has referred me .... So that the verses " of Selgas Pidal and speeches that you have
taken was to teach this memory chattering bird? So what? Will Do learn something?

Belarmino said it had acquired the Picaza to teach him to speak in the only way who understand the
common man. But as Bellarmine, to answer this, did not use language that they understand the
common man, Father begged Alesón explain. Bellarmine did so. The father then felt Alesón understand.

-
Now, now ...-- said the Dominican, smiling banter -. You searched in this magpie Diogenes; 've
created your Diogenes, the cynic, who spoke clearly odious, and that
nothing is missing, you've locked in their coop.

And you, what you are: Socrates, Plato, peripatetic, sophist?

- Stoic - responded with great dignity and pride Belarmino, who suddenly
had revealed the meaning of that word, heard from the lips of Colignon.

Alesón

Father stayed cold. He thought: "To see if this poor man has more than synderesis I suspected.
"goodbye.

- Ea, Bellarmine, against my wishes, I have to leave your company.

That is my mission: to walk, walk from one side to another, with a heavy responsibility on his
shoulders.

And back again the monk, when Bellarmine murmured

- Naturally, as you are a camel ....

Alesón Father turned his face, the expression in question.

- Man, man ...-- stammered, his voice weak -. That is offensive.

I thought that perhaps the Dominican Bellarmine resented him because he had previously spoken
ironically.

- I wanted to say you're a priest - said the shoemaker.

- Well, the
pity.

While camel called me, to me personally, it could happen.

I thought that allude to my size.

But now I happen to be a priest .... dromedary Truth; So Bellarmine, is rude, unbecoming of you.

Bellarmine
commiserations waved resignedly, as if to say: I have to put it in
your mouth spoon.

He explained the well-known allegory of the dromedary and camel,
leaving gaping the monk.

Bellarmine concluded, in their jargon and deprivation.

- I cherish the camels and dromedaries, but not kiss.

Watering the tetrahedron, imprisonment and paraphrasing the tetrahedron, but sartorial and illiteracy
remain the tetrahedron. My schedule Jerky is recreated intuition.

Dominican came out full of bewilderment and concern. Froilan Escobar, the Alligator, no had moved
during the previous scene. He thought he was dreaming. "Is it true? Is it illusion? "- Said itself
-.

"If not for the damning testimony that pair of boots, as mine and so alien to me as horny
growths on my feet, if not for the blatant fact that I comes into contact with objective reality, it
is that what we saw and heard were pipe dreams of my reason numb and dazed. And this happens to
two hundred yards from the University .... And I I have twenty years in the University without
having heard .... This man baffling and unheard Is it a comic? Is it a dark genius, raw, such
as stone diamond hidden within land? Is he crazy? "And the good Estudiantón became a mess.

-
Are you angry, Mr. Belarmino - said to leave - if I come in the afternoon, from time to time, to talk
a while with you?

- I have a great jerky - Bellarmine replied, unmoved.

Escobar did not know what to decide.

That great jerky Bellarmine would have, if Escobar come to visit, what would? Did you receive it,
or dismiss him with short shrift? He tried. Bellarmine received him with clear content and gave him
a long and tole incomprehensible lecture on tolerance and the CAS, tas, tas. The Estudiantón
listened fascinated, without getting anything clean, but with the certain hope of mastering some
day the technicality of this modern philosopher of the portal, or stoic, as he said, without
knowing both in Greece worth Stoic philosopher of the portal.

Escobar continued attending Bellarmine portal and took notes of what he heard. Since Estudiantón
that had, fortunately, begun to hear the synonymy explain to Bellarmine camel and dromedary, he
had no doubt that each of the voices used by the shoemaker contained a fixed representation,
that the voices are succeeded each other with illation grammar and logic, and ultimately, that
this formal illation contained a think tank original. On the advice of Escobar attended Bellarmine
hear many students and even teachers. The judgments and opinions about the stoic disagreed, of course,
the mood is passionate