 Not a word. He had no signature. The letter seemed to counterfeit.

Don Braulio read the letter once, twice, three times, and who does
not know well, like someone not believe the testimony of his senses,
and who still doubt whether it is true or if a nightmare or a delusion
it is perceived.

Evenly then did pause thousand pieces of the letter, including the envelope, then was about to take the
bits in the basket at his side for torn paper, and after, as a better reflection, and as if
fearing that the letter could come together and put back torn, Don
Braulio rose from his seat, went to the fire that burned on one side
of the room and gently tossed into the flame all those bits of paper.

He returned to his table to begin their day jobs, but no sooner got
three or four steps, he failed to stand, and he fell on the floor
mat that covered the stay.

Colleagues and clerks were rushed there to lift.

- What is it, Don
Braulio? - Said one.

- González Amigo! - Said another.

Don Braulio did not respond.

- It's a stroke.

- What a devil of
an accident!

- What stroke? - Said another -.

Apoplectic good looks of this man is drier than a cod.

- Rather be a weakness fainting - said a fourth partner, which rises above the funny thing -.
His wife will spend it all in buns, and eat little at home.

Finally, although not very charitable fellow, attended Don Braulio,
who soon to come to.

His first care was to plead to those present not to say anything about
what happened, so that at home to know, do not panic.

All promised silence.

Don Braulio said then that he was fully recovered and returned to his seat and went to work
as if nothing had happened.

Did not leave the office that day and a half minute before the usual time.

When he returned home, no one had noticed on his face the slightest
trace of pain.

Said quietly to his wife that Paco Ramirez called
the place, I had to fix big business there, and that night was to
take the train in Spain.

Caused some surprise at the sudden trip
Beatriz Don Braulio, but he said with Serenity was not one that should
inspire care business, and so all suspicion vanished, both the mind
of his wife's mind as Inesita, which was also somewhat amazed at first.