 

Making shoes began to be rich, then his wealth grew, giving money to award, although to be conscientious
man, fearing God and very compassionate, never took more than 10 100 a year later, he founded
and opened a shop or bazaar, where they sold all there is to sell sugar, coffee, beans, cod, cards,
prayer books, books for school children, and all kind of fabrics and trimmings for the clothing
of men and women. The teacher was being also quite a few estates of their debtors, and became owner
of vineyards, olive groves, orchards and farms.

No longer wielded the awl, or put the tirapié, or soiled fingers cerote but true to its origins,
retaining the shoe store where they worked official experts, the disciples own. The Grand
Bazaar was next. And next to the shoe and the bazaar could be seen revoked and the beautiful façade
of the house, situated in the central and widest street in town. Behind this house and in uninterrupted
succession, had patios, yards, stables, tinados, warehouses, barns, press, oil mill, and in
short, everything that can hold and has a wealthy farmer and owner of Andalusia. The back
door that gave entrance these barns, one could say that was outside the walls of the village,
if people have walls, while the main door, as stated above was at the center.

The teacher Raymond never wanted to commit or be mixed in politics, but suddenly had to change. He
had done fusion and had agreed to be head of that party Villalegre politician and mayor.

He was a widower, was already fifteen years. And it was about seven he had his only son, D. Raimundo
Roldán Chain, studying or walking and idling in Madrid, then on this point differ not a little
the authors. Also differ about the cause of the long and uninterrupted absence the child, attributing
one happier than widowhood Recollect father, for which there embarrassment or scandal was the presence
of the child, and others attributing it to indifference and arrogance the latter, who lived in Madrid
as elegant and illustrious gentleman, who spoke of his house manor, and repelled back to the
place to see the plebeian coarseness of his father and the early fundamental and shoe tenaciously
preserved