 

The irregularity of the rules, but with excess menstrual flow in women hysterical or very nervous,
requires the use of ignacia: in these cases, changes were seen in various sensitivity, such
as nail hysterical, migraine, toothache, various neuralgias, spasms, the ball almost always
hysterical, anxiety, palpitations, puffs of heat in uppers, partial and no uncomfortable heat
steadily.

The ignacia has a remarkable action on the mucous membranes at their point of union with the skin,
which is highly recommended: 1. No cracks in the lips, irritation, dryness, pain and pronounced
redness of the parts, the zinc is more in the cracks with pale; pulsatility, if color is blue,
the sea salt and phosphorus, if cracks are crusting mercury, abrasions and ulcer exudates,
the mezereum, more analogous to ignacia in this special case, as the former differs from the
general characters of their action on the body.

2. No cracks in the anus, itching, throbbing, constricting pain: these are linear, shallow and
together, usually with exudation. Acid is indicated for cracks whip more irregular or more deep,
exuding that they bleed easily, and relate to some remote symptoms
of syphilis.

Lead, in its action on the year, is more analogous Ignatius, but differs in all the other symptoms.

3.
ยบ prolapsus In the rectum with or without cracks: in the first case, the crack causes prolapse
of the rectum through the efforts of expulsion and contractions which excites; healed the rift,
stops the descent of the rectum and pains and contractions in the
second case, Ignacio is one of the best curative, especially in children.

4.

ยบ In the year itch, and so on caused by roundworms, but in this case, Valerian is preferred
in children, even when seizures. The marum and sulfur may be necessary auxiliary to the ignacia.
The espigelia is also indicated in pruritus these species when they occur after a fever or
that occur during the course of a fever verminous, and have been sympathetically aroused anxieties
palpitations, nervous disorders generally.

5. ยบ conjunctivitis in some children and adults, when the conjunctiva tumeface forming a bun
and investing outwards. Only in this circumstance and before hypertrophy the lid margin is when should
the ignacia, is the drug most useful in ophthalmia of newborns, when developing conjunctival
impeller.

The ignacia plays little skin conditions, but is useful as an accessory in the intertrigo, in erythema
of the members in sensitive or nervous persons, and particularly in a species burning itch that occupies
most of the skin and disappears after scratching. Conditions it is more advantageous and more
often useful this drug, its elective action the spinal nerves are neuro, neuralgia and spasms,
whose characters go to indicate.

The ignacia and ipecacuanha are very similar in body spasm with stiffness, stretching, spasmodic
jerking of the limbs, and movements in the muscles of the face, but
is more ignacia in particular, congestion shooting in the head, pale
alternative and redness of one cheek, and the irregularity in the
distribution of heat.

The action of this drug in the spinal cord seconded by which also owns about ganglionic nervous
system, makes it effective in spasms caused by indignation Fast concentrations
in this system, and the regret that occurs from the beginning a chronic.