 He put the hairdresser or the girl wearing matinee, and entertained good
while carefully drawing silk ties that are holding ahead. When portrait was finished. Venturita
accent told picaresque:

- Now, who is put under.

The young man raised his head and smiling eyes clashed. Then, with brilliance and decision wrote
under the picture: What I love most in the world.

Venturita took the paper in his hands and stared for a moment with
pleasure.

Then with a grimace of disdain handed it back saying:

- Take, take,
liar.

But before reaching the hands of Gonzalo, Cecilia extended his and snatched him laughing.

- What are those pieces of paper?

Venturita, as if it had a flat tire, jumped on the seat and held her
wrist tightly of his sister.

- Give, give, Cecilia!

Stop it! - Said breathing fire with his face, made by forced smile.

- No, I see it.

- You'll see later, go!

- I see it now.

- Come on, girl, Leave it to see.

What do you care? - Said Dona Paula.

- I do not want anyone to force it off - cried becoming serious. Then, realizing the recklessness of
this, turned to be cheerful.

- Come on, Cecilia, loose, do not be evil.

- What a commitment!

Drops you who hurt me!

- Who are you to take my hand paper? - Uttered in anger, turning this
time really serious .-- Loose, loose, ugly parrot noses, silly!

... Let go, or I scratch you! - Added with flashing eyes and the face broken by anger.

Seeing her in that way, the laughter that shook his chest suddenly
paralizóse Cecilia, and opening her large eyes which was painted surprise,
exclaimed:

- Jesus!

You look crazy, girl. Take, take, will not give you something.

And dropped the crumpled piece of paper that in the fist.

Venturita have altered the face, he did a thousand pieces.

- In the days of my life have I seen a wild creature! - Crossing himself exclaimed Dona Paulina
Ave .-- Mary!

Ave Maria! Who did you get that genie, girl?

- Would you - plastered Venturita said, without looking at anyone.

-
Shameless!

... If not there are people looking forward!

... How do you answer that So your mother, naughty? Do not you know
the commandments of God's law?

Tomorrow I will Don Aquilino to confess.

- Well, give reports to Don Aquilino.

- Wait, wait, very great rascal! - Called Mrs. doing started to rise
to punish her daughter.

But at that moment appeared at the door of Don Rosendo with multicolored robe velvet hat with
silk tassel.

- What? - Asked amazed watching his wife's angry attitude.

This will put the current, choked with sobs, the lack of respect for
his daughter.

Don Rosendo was believed in the case of frown, and say solemnly:

- That's wrong, Ventura. Go to apologize to your mom.

He knew he was distracted, absorbed in some thought, and that domestic incident could not wring
more than half of their concern.

However, to see the girl still in haughty and dismissive, he said again, more firmly

- Come, daughter, go to ask for forgiveness, because you have offended.

The

girl made his peculiar grimace of contempt in his lips, and whispered softly:

- Yes, that's what I'm thinking!

- Go, Ventura, what muttering there? Go, before I get angry.

- Go, go, Venturita. Go there. Do not be so - he said under his seamstresses.

- I do not want. Will you leave me alone? - She answered quietly, too, but with angry tone.

- Do not want to go? - Asked Don Rosendo with severely affected .--
Do not you want to go?

The girl stood motionless and silent.

- Then get out of here now! Get out of my sight!

Venturita rose from his chair, went through the middle of the upright and sulking competition,
and went the room making a big bang.

Don Rosendo, after remaining motionless for a moment with eyes fixed on the door where his daughter
had gone, he turned, saying:

- I'm sorry to be so strong with my
daughters ... but sometimes no choice.

VII

THAT IS OF TWO TRAITORS

Sudden blurred pseudomarítima his noble face the fearful expression that darkened and appeared
distracted again that another sign of constant meditation.

- Gonzalo,
if you do not mind, I ask you to pierce me at the office - said addressing
to his future son.

This, that during the previous scene was pale and returned to his
being repeatedly turned at confusing.

Nothing less struck him that Rosendo was unaware of the instability their feelings of love,
and I would ask it close consideration. Was, therefore, behind his head bowed and suspicious, and
entered the desktop.

It was a spacious room, furnished with rich merchant class: large solid mahogany table, mahogany
cabinets, too, where there bundles of papers more than books, velvet carpet, couches lined with
brocade, and massive silver inkstand as a monument. About a quarter of this camera ocupábalo
a lot of packets wrapped in several colors, to whoever first Once entered into it, would be
a mystery. Gonzalo was not for or to any of the intimate of the house. Those packages kept
toothpicks.

How? - Ask the reader .-- Don Rosendo Belinchón, a dealer in both
stem, traded also on toothpicks?

No, Don Rosendo not traded with them, make them. And this not to speculate, unworthy of its kind,
but pure and selfless inclination of his spirit. From a very young man had told him. The regulars
trade occupations and the vicissitudes through which he passed his
existence, had not consented to meet this passion but in a materially
poor at times lost.

But since she could leave the desktop to some of the faithful entrusted dependent entregóse
full heart and soul a distraction so helpful and honest. In the morning at the store Graells,
in the afternoon Saloncillo in the evening at home or in the Don Pedro Miranda, always working.
His servant occupied much of the day in court a few blocks of dry
hazel perfectly equal, where his right hand had to take the show of
the sticks.

And was not about to rest, even on holidays, production was excessive. There were not enough consumers
in the village, and saw packages needed to recall them friends of the capital, when the pile reached
the ceiling clearance. Thanks to the efforts noblest of the clear representative of their trade, we
can proudly say that Sarrio in this interesting field of progress, was at the height of the
big cities. No other Spanish town or foreign competition could suffer with it. Home of the rich,
as in the artisan, never missing a well-stocked toothpick, undisputed testimony the refined
culture of its inhabitants.

Rosendo said a couch to his son in infancy, and he was frightened and let himself fall into it sinking
deeply.

After the trader approached a chair with an air of mystery, and sitting front of the young and looking
between smiling and embarrassed, he said, giving the same time a pat on the thigh

- Let's see, Gonzalito: how about the issue of slaughter?

- Is the slaughter? - Said it opened his eyes wide as fists.

- Yes, the new slaughterhouse, do you think should be placed in the dump, or on the beach of
Meanas behind the houses of Don Rudesindo?

Gonzalo saw heaven opened, and, smiling with pleasure, he replied:

- I believe that the Meanas beach would be nice ... Very open that
... well ventilated ...

But noting that his father's forehead was
wrinkled, and her eyes suddenly subsided smile, said stammering:

-
Nor do I think it would be wrong with the spring ...

- Much better,
Gonzalo ... Infinitely better!

- Can, can.

- Man, so it may be,
I will tell you privately that the location on the beach I judge (Please
save me the reservation on this opinion), I judge ... a veritable
folly ... u-na do-da-de-ra in-sen-sa-skinned - all the best pointing
repeated syllables.

- And this opinion of mine - he said - do not
go to refiguring it yesterday morning, but throughout life.

Since I was able to understand certain things, I realized that the slaughterhouse would not
be where is today. In a word, that should be moved. Where? An inner voice always told me that
the dump. Before you can give any scientific reason, I was as convinced as that there was now
located, and not elsewhere. Now that the resolution of the problem approaches, I think I have to hold
this view, to communicate my thoughts to the people and the result of my musings. If you do
not have to do I will read your letter I am writing Progress on this occasion the Lancia.

And indeed, without waiting for the answer to Gonzalo, he went to the table, picked up a specification
paper that was on it, put on his glasses, and stood on the balcony gave beginning, not without
some emotion that is reflected by the voice, reading the letter.

Commercial paper was written in large, striped. All that for years led the Advancement of Lancia
and other newspapers in the capital of the province, were written in the same role on both sides.
Although he did not know that the press was written by a only. But soon acquired this precious
knowledge, as we shall see.

Almost simultaneously with that of toothpicks Rosendo was born in Belinchón the fans to write press
releases to newspapers: that is, dating from a remote antiquity. Ardent supporter of human progress,
reforms at all levels, from the discussion and light, it is clear that the press had to command
respect and enthusiasm. Newspapers had always been an essential element of their existence.
He was signed to many national and foreign, because, as taught to trade, was well acquainted with
French and English and had never missed, even in the busiest days, a couple of hours to spend
to read.

These times are significantly increased for some years, but not that it would suffer by cod. The
enjoyment that our hero felt in the morning after taking the chocolate
swallowing the substantive articles of the national flag, the Loose
Politics and the Nouvelles à la main of Figaro was so vivid, it was
printed long in the face until the radiation was being lost in the
atmosphere.

Like all men of broad and lofty view, it was not exclusive in their tastes newspaper. He loved
the daily newspaper, as a kind shows the progress of human reason or as he put it best, "a demonstration
raised public awareness." Opinions which each defended, were a secondary. I was subscribed to newspapers
in all colors, and equally enjoyed. If you showed any predilection, it was only for the items
loose meaning.

Because that's saying one thing and pretending to express the opposite twist phrases so that a
clause carry innocent appearance in a "poisoned arrow" was in awe of Don Rosendo and drove him
crazy with joy. Read many times The Spain one paragraph with the style: - "Yesterday it was
finally the circular of the President Supreme of their subordinates. Congratulations to General
O'Donnell, president of this situation liberal, Mr. Negrete, who
has given a lucid moment atop a colossal work, and Democrat protection
of this Government "- had exclaimed waving a newspaper in his hands:
- What intention!

Caracoles! What intention!

This desire, rather, this passion for the press, it was not platonic as we warned. Back in his
youth had sent two letters to a weekly newspaper that was published in Lancia, entitled The
Fall, on the occasion of the annual festivals that are held in Sarrió September. These letters
leyéronse to fruition in the town and earned him quite a few congratulations. This encouraged
him to write three more the following year, informing the public
of the number Amazing rockets that were fired Sarrió on 13, 14 and
15, the pretty little light of 16, and the lavish ball held at the
Lyceum on the night of 17.

After having tasted the sweetness of advertising, Rosendo could not
help tasting it from time to time.

The slightest pretext was enough to lead either a letter, sometimes a statement to newspapers.
Sometimes signed his name, others with any funny pseudonym or anagram. Celebrating the skippers a party
in honor of San Telmo: Rosendo immediately wrote a letter Lancia or the Progressive Bee, describing
the festival, fireworks, Mass, the procession, etc. It gave a banquet in the new school building
to inaugurate: after three or four days, the newspaper received the
usual letter Lancia publishing toasts and improvised sonnets.

It fell from a scaffold builder, reported Don Rosendo asking for more guarantees for the builders
who put on the scaffolding. Sung mass the son of Don Aquilino, Rosendo letter describing the
moving ceremony, praising clear voice and sound and serenity of the young priest. If the tides
were high and strong and tore some stones from the tip of the Pawn; letter. If the vessel refused
Bilbao to take on board pilots Sarrió; statement. If you missed the corn harvest drought; letter.
If the prevailing winds were from the Northwest; letter. In short, no event befell in the soil
or the atmosphere of the town worthy of mention, who did not receive the right hand and well-cut
pen of our merchant.

Much work is avoided Sarrió to future historians of this valuable material Joined by one of
the clearest children!

As he advanced in years Belinchón Rosendo, his letters gave a less romantic, if not frivolous
(it would be as inaccurate as such disrespectful epithet applied to writings of that estimable
gentleman). That is, these issues were not so often the feast and recreation of the inhabitants of
the town, as anything that would tend directly or indirectly to promote the moral and material
from it.

Markets, schools, the rescue of the shipwrecked, the erection of
a temple or a prison, etc., etc. were the issues that for His glory
and good of the people that he was born, they exercised more often.

One of them, of "vital interest to Sarrió" as he said very well,
was the slaughterhouses. Up then he had never addressed this issue,
knowing that their views would differ somewhat of a large part of
the neighborhood. More had come, in his view, the time of 'making
unambiguously or detours. " The statement he read was the first thing
about this issue addressed the Advancement of Lancia. Began:

"Mr.
Director of the Lancia Progeso. 

Dear Sir: The choice with which
you look at the physical and natural sciences, and in particular Health
science as it influences the health of both peoples as the individuals,
in view of its great practical value, has been slowly banish shyness
of those who, influenced by a poor education and almost wrong, condemned
the study of these great problems dragged by old and clumsy happily
concerns will dispel the powerful breath of the nineteenth century,
rightly called the Age of Enlightenment. "

Don Rosendo paragraphs
were always abundant as the previous. Continued:

"Today that civilization,
broken the constraints holding back the consciousness and subject
the spirit, opens vast field all through the press to express our
free thinking and issue to the face of the world, trusting friendship
with you I have always distinguished, and the leniency with which
the public has received so far the humble birth of my pen, etc., etc.
"

After three or four paragraphs by way of preamble (that the director
of El Progreso used to cut) Rosendo entered on the issue, studying
the slaughterhouse or Macelo groups, as he named them, through all
its stages, to come to condemn, in terms not gave rise to doubts,
its location on the beach of Meanas. His reasons for opposing it were
"obvious." On the one hand, winds from the southwest, reigning most
year, they pulled it foul miasma, etc. and so on. Moreover, the difficulty
to find firm ground for the foundation, which could cause excessive
spending, etc.., etc. In addition, the need to enter the cattle population,
etc., Etc. In addition, proximity houses, etc. In addition, the injury
to bathers are incurred, etc., Etc. In end, were more than twenty
reasons Rosendo "pointed in a light and brief" proposes to give "wider
and development" in other letters successive thought 'disturbing the
attention of the readers of your illustrious newspaper. "

When finished
reading, the deemed incontrovertible Gonzalo and Don Rosendo (with
goggles at the tip of the nose) said that they had no turning back.
Having reached agreement so perfect, full of joy broke naturally.
Don Rosendo stayed in the office putting clean your letter. Gonzalo
went back to the sewing room. However, before crossing the door, called
his father to tell his future:

- Of this, not a word to anyone, eh?

-
Don Rosendo, for God's sake - the young man raising his hand in protest.