 By leaning into the fire of the
kitchen, I have everything I need... And if not, to look at it is
enough.

With what rose from the chair and broke to a walk the blessed God, without
giving me time to light with a candle what was in the darkest passages.

To read!

To write! The poor man didn't know that when a man gives way to finding the course of the hours
tedious, he cannot dedicate himself to anything that will distract him, as a law of the naughty
human condition.

That night not a soul came by to the gathering, and the least sad face that was in the kitchen
was that of Facia's, the incomprehensible and mysterious gray woman. My uncle and I, just like
we used to do often, dined in a lazy manner: he would have his corresponding portion of milk, the only
food that had been prescribed by Neluco lately, for being so convenient to his invincible lack
of appetite and to the roots of his illness, and I, the ordinary
condumios of Toña and her mother, to which my stomach was very grateful.

As the night was so long and I knew how unending it seemed to my poor uncle the part of it that was
destined for people with good health to rest in bed, I procured that we would go to bed as
late as possible. After the three maids had eaten and the plates had been put away, and everyone had
returned to gather at the fire, and I had tried, with little luck, to free Toña from being
a slave of a drowsiness that kept her in a continuous head bob and Chisco of his suspicious insensibility.
But my uncle, who watched everything, gave said "let's go," and he stood
from his chair, more grateful than satisfied of that so notorious
as useless sacrifice that we were all doing for him.

Before going to bed I went out to the solarium for a moment to see the night. It was still snowing,
and I saw that everything on the sky seemed black and everything on the
ground seemed white, without anyone disturbing the serenity of that
melancholic frame with those rumors of the river, very choppy with
the tributes of the sleet passages, and that who picked the snow
that melted as it touched him.

I woke up very early the next day and to satisfy a childish curiosity, I looked through the balcony
very well clothed. It had stopped snowing, but the sky was cloudy like the color of a donkey's belly.
I had seen it snow in Madrid, Paris and St. Petersburg... many times, but always in flat land and
in between the streets: like a carpet of canvas somewhat dirty on the streets and blankets of white
duvets laid on the roofs; snow, alas, theatrical, without the slightest resemblance to what I
was seeing from my uncle's balcony. It was as if the mountains of the contour had tripled their
height and the unity of the color of all of them with the round shapes that gave them their accumulation
of the snow over their natural and rough edges, changed in my eyes the edges and all the lines
of the panorama that was so familiar to me. I could not find in the new panorama a sole detail
with which to find myself to reconstruct what had been erased in so few hours. Trees, trails,
valleys, everything had disappeared, or was under the snow, or was concealed by the tricks
of the light; sky, hills, valleys... they were all the same to a manner
in which I would be under the refined salt or lime