 

MANILA

Font establishment of Modesto Reyes and Ca

Salcedo, 190.

Santa Cruz.

1901

Professor Dean C. Worcester

dedicates this work

.= = The Author

ETYMOLOGY

OF

NAMES
OF RACES OF THE PHILIPPINES

BY THE

Dr. TH Pardo de Tavera.

After the story of a thousand and five hundred islands that make up
the Philippine Archipelago is that of the "hundreds of races that
inhabit the islands Babylonian confusion," as says a geographical
lyrical author who wrote about this country.

By omission of rocks, boulders, insignificant islets, many without
vejetación, others with only one species of birds and some insects
and wildlife, and most without a human being who will live in them,
are, as inhabited islands and only have, being the Philippines, a
few from Luzon, which is the largest, to that of Cagayancillo, which
is one of the tiniest.

So it is with the famous 'races' pompous name whose meaning has been
confused by applying it to political groups in no different from each
other.

Recent ethnographic studies have shown that the races that inhabit
our islands are three, viz: Negritos, Indonesian and Malay.

But these breeds are not only various miscegenation but a great variety of tribes mainly characterized
by languages ??or, rather speak Filipino dialects. If we will found in linguistic reasons for
give names to the different groups of men, the number of races called Philippine to be quite
grown, not yet come to the figure reached today and the teacher Blumentritt had the patient
work together in alphabetical order a brochure published in Spanish with the title "The races of
the Philippine archipelago."

As powerfully clear linguistic studies anthropological issues, I believed that would be useful
to information to establish the etymology of the names today apply
to the different tribes, with the name of races, Philippines.

Political divisions of the islands almost always respond to divisions based on language, so that,
beginning with taking charge of the names that characterize the provinces when these are applied
to groups that speak the same language, found on the island of Luzon the following: Tagalog, Pampanga,
Bicol, Pangasinan, sambal, Ilocano, Ibanag or Cagayan. After see that within each of these provinces
have different tribes, many with language carrying different, for this reason or another unknown,
a different name.

Visayas applies to three dialects spoken in Cebu, Iloilo and Negros: Calamian or Cuyo is also
pool name linguist and Mindanao to get see that not a territorial
division the character is already in Luzon.

Many tribes have by name, a geographical name: another reason is discovered topographic, or local
customs, or other relationship with neighboring tribes. Sometimes names are simply applied to local
residents, other times the source the name does not appear so clear and to discover its etymology
is to start by decomposing to discover the root as discussed below.

For convenience we divide the names that we shall study in the following groupings:

Compounds with the prefix Taga. "With the prefix I. "With the prefix A. "With the prefix Ma
"With the Non prefix. "With the prefix and suffix Ka W 'in other ways.

* * * * *

TAGA prefix.

This prefix, to join names, it means "native of it, natural."

       Used alone, has no significance whatsoever and we find the following
names to form clusters Ethnic: TAGALOG, TAGABALOY, TAGABAWA, TAGABULU,
TAGABELI, TAGACAOLO, TAGABANUA or Tagbanúas, etc. etc.

The meaning
of such code is provided for us Polynesian languages: in Samoa is
called taga-ta man, in Tahiti, losing the g we find the word taa-ta.

It is therefore undoubtedly that taga, prefix with no real meaning
today as isolated voice, originally meant "man."

Now, consider the etymology of the other voices to which we find attached, to name tribes more
or less important.

One of the major linguistic groups in the Philippines is composed
of the Tagalog with which name are called the inhabitants of the provinces
of Manila, Bulak, Nueva Ecija, Bataan, part of Tarlac, Laguna, Tayabas
and the District of Morong, with about 1,250,000 individuals.

There is no doubt that in the old, all these men were not called Tagalog, this was named a
fraction Manila lived and, by extension, be applied by the Spanish to all those who spoke the same
language. This percentage was the one who lived in Tondo, Manila and Basin peoples Pasig, therefore,
some ancient authors, by etymology of how it sounds, explained the formation of the word as a
contraction of taga-ilog "inhabitant the river, "but this is not
possible, because if so there would be missing the point t, and even
if this had happened, it could not have been as pronounced tagalog
in the second but where required tagalog the phonetics of the word
with similar origins.

Some authors have assumed that this name was a composite of alog which means "ford" where Tagalog
mean "men or people of the ford." Nor are we satisfied with the explanation, and more logical
to accept that from the root alog, in Pangasinan, means "land low water is full of rain ", precisely
because the indigenous people to the arrival of Tagalog called the Spanish in the Manila region,
inhabited, as now, land and low-lying. Probably in those days were called alog those lands,
and the name, outdated and obsolete in today's Tagalog, has been only in Pangasinan.

The Indians who inhabited the highlands as today called taga-Bukit (bukit 'land high) and the
mountains taga-bundok (bundok, "the mountain").

In the lagoon itself, the inhabitants its banks were known by the name of taga-Doong, so people
also called of the plain. Doong means' pier, place, or cuddle shore where boats. "

While in Manila called taga-bundok to the Highlanders, in Laguna knew they by Tinguianes.

I had read some authors hit the floor ting, noting the difference the language that existed
between the inhabitants of the Ting and valleys.

Undoubtedly wanted once say 'mountain', and that meaning, lost today in Tagalog, there is still
Malay. Looking for references to this voice, I found the following in the Words of Fr Santos: "The
Ting are from the mountains of San Pablo by Nagcarlan to Calaylayan, where he was Header formerly
Tayabas, and then run the hills of Cabinti up Ulinguling, that is
top of Mabitac.

"A few lines before he said:" The Ting own or woodlands which leaves no doubt as to the significance
attached to this voice.

From left Tinguian tingui formed with its fixed an serving here to name people.

The inhabitants of the province now called Batangas not initially called Tagalog. Fr San Agustin,
in his History, says (p. 424): "Speak Tagalog language, which calls Comintana, all that land by
province called COMINT. "

We can not find the etymology of COMINT, but look the other names that we statement with the prefix
taga.

Tagabawa is the name given to the mestizo means Bagobos, Manobo and tagakaolos that by Montano,
are scattered on both sides of the gulf of Davao (Mindanao) near Son River. Bawa means "below the
bottom", referring no doubt to river because those who live upriver
from the same region are called taga-Kaol being the meaning of ka-olo,
"part towards the head, or the origin of the river."

In Mindanao, known also the tagabaloy, a name which may be a variant of tagabeli and tagabulu,
probably originated from the name of Laguna Bulu-an, but here we would enter in the realm of hypothesis,
because we lack (and I speak personally for me), news topographic and linguists firm enough
to talk about things in Mindanao.

We know that in the language of many of those tribes in the Bagobos, for example, taga prefix has
the same meaning as in Tagalog and wider still, because there is significance of man who possesses
or has this or that object, preceded by the prefix.

On the island of Paragua, Palawan or live on the coast Moors who came from Jolo and Mindanao
and within some indigenous idolaters, considered Aboriginal struggle with the sea and who
call themselves Tagbanuas.

Banu, the voice of Polynesian origin (fenua, "land") means in most of the Visayan languages
??"land, country and population also." Clearly Tagbanúas is understood that means "man of
the country" or in other words, "Indians." On the island of Panay was formerly called and also
tagubanua tagolabon banuanon and a god who, they said, lived in the fields and woods. We should
note that in this name see linguists two procedures: the first is used as the Tagalog, using
the affix taga, and the second form with the suffix non Bikol has the same meaning.

* * * * *

       Prefix I.

Almost all compounds with the kennel name I belong to most hill tribes Northern Luzon are: Ibalibon,
Ibilaw, Ifugaw, Igorots (Igolot) Ilongot, Isinay, Iraya, Italon, Itawe. Ilokano é Ibanag that
inhabit the plains, the Ibalon in South Luzon and The Idan in Paragua.

To find their etymologies will resort to the language spoken by the kagayanes, the Ilokano and gaddanes
that are most important to that region.

The prefix I in Ibanag, a language spoken by the indigenous civilizations that inhabited the regions
Call Cagayan and Isabela, has the same meaning as in Tagalog taga. Says P. Splendor Cave in grammar
Ibanag that 'prefixed to the names of provinces, kingdoms and towns,
a patrician names: eg Ilal-loc, Lal-loc man, I Spain, a man of Spain.

"

Ibanag the same name, means "inhabitant of Banaga," which is the name of the river called Grande
de Cagayan.

Originally called Ibanag to the inhabitants of the shores of that Aparry river from which population
is nearby the sea, to the region called disseminate, and more properly from Aparri to Takalawa,
a district of Lalo, to Gataran.

Based on this principle, let us see the etymology of the other names mentioned, noting that, as we
know them today in its Spanish form, we begin by deprive them of the foreign elements that appear
in your build, to consider only an indigenous form.

The italones (italon) lived in the ancient forests that extend to the northeast tip of Pampanga,
being now in the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Principe.

Language Gadda, heel means "mountain" in what follows that italon means "mountain." Comes in
support of this interpretation of Itaú supply faucets, strictly itaw depriving them of the termination
indicating plural is Castilian, which is the name of some infidels living in the plains adjacent to
the above. In Gadda, voice taw means "sowing."

Iday, said Blumentritt, which is the name of a dialect of Negritos of Cagayan, however, is but
a variant called Iraya with a tribe of savages, apparently mixed the Negritos and Malays,
who live south of the Kalataganes on the western side of the mountain range Palawan. Daya,
Raya or Saya means "East" and "South" in several languages N. region of Luzon, but in this case,
refers to E. because, although we know that they are to S. of kalataganes is not the topographical
relationship to these giving them the name but their situation with respect to the Itetapanes.
Here are some Montagnards living in the O. of Isabela de Luzon, west
of the Iday and the name says so, because in Ibanag, Telapan Tatalapan
and means the 'West'.

The Katalanganes are the same men who Iraya speak the language these and its name comes from
the river on whose banks they inhabit, name which, in turn, is derived from Talang, a pine
species in those sites grows in abundance.

Commonly called Igorots the savages who inhabit the mountains of Luzon and even other islands,
but in the ancient chronicles Filipino known only to that name Igolot or rather, in true Indian
form, the infidels living in Benguet and nearby Mount Sto. Thomas. Now understood to also appoint
the bloodthirsty savages North of Luzon, but the German ethnographer Hans Meyer and then Dr. Schadenberg,
say should only be so called infidels who inhabit Benguet and Lepanto. The fact is that Tinguian
same as the voice Igorot in the Philippines is used as synonymous with "savage mountain." This
name means the same as Tinguian 'quiet' in Tagalog root Golota, who composes, means "mountain
range" and though this voice is not the only dictionary Ibanag that
form there, you can not say why that was not known in that language,
as known in ancient tinguished voice in Tagalog.

It's called a dialect spoken inibaloy by the Igorots and this voice, in Ilocano, simply means
"language of foreigners."

The so-called infidels Isinays are about living in the western part of the Nueva Vizcaya also
known by the name of Ituyes by province formerly called the county Ituy they inhabit. Its etymology
does not seem very clear: sina, in Ilocano means "segregation separation
of persons' voice that I find acceptable as a radical of the name
of tribe when you consider that one of them is called Ilongot longot
formed a word that in Ilocano means "meeting, assembly, aggregation
of people."

These same Ilongots, customs and bloodthirsty savages who inhabit the regions bordering the provinces
of Nueva Vizcaya, Isabela and Principe, are also called ibilaos, (Indigenous form is ibilaw),
whose etymology, try as I have done, is for me complete darkness. The italones that we mentioned
before, are of the same tribe race: at least Dominican missionaries
say the peoples italones New High Ecija, belong to the ibilaos and
these are also known by the name of Ilongot.

Another large tribe of Malay race who lived in the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Isabela, is Ifugaw
call that appears to be one of the most ancient of Luzon, whose etymology is explained the Ibanag
where we see that iafugw means "island." Today, all of that race, forming groups called silipanes,
quianganes, Mayoyao and bungianes (names topographic) have been re-concentrated
to form the villages and towns of the command of Qiang.

Is known to yogades (yogad) or to a montañeces gaddañes currently living on the slopes of the Cordillera
Central, the western boundary of the province of Isabela, from the
left bank of the Magat River, river end of the Mercedes, to the jurisdiction
Christian peoples Itawes.

The etymology of both names gives us Ibanag language resembles both Gadda, resulting Gadd and yogad
that have the same meaning and origin, only the first is the name of second place and the tribe.
Both radical derived from gad ugad whose oldest form, there also in Ibanag and means "sowing
high." This root, followed by the suffix an, means "Instead of sowing high" as we saw payaw meant
"low sowing or irrigation." The inhabitants of Gadda, called today so this place name, met in the
old by personal names, which is formed with the prefix yogad i know
the meaning of which and the radical equal to gad ugad we have examined.

Have

failed my research on the etymology of other names such as some suppose ILOKO Influenced by
the analogy, derived from ilog 'dweller river, "without noting that the radical referred to ends
with g, and examined by voice k: i also the word ilog, river, not as in ILOKO, a prefix, but
an integral part radical. I can not say anything about Ibalon, the old name that was given to the
people of Camarines.

Ilamut, Igorot tribe that resides in the mountains located between Nueva Vizcaya and Benguet,
radical seems formed lamut Gadda, "mixture", meaning perhaps mestizo is etymology only probable.

Iday
is variable yraya already examined.

Ilan, Illanes, lanos, wool, malanao are names given to certain people pirates the coast of Mindanao.
Are different forms of composition of wool or lanun name radical
geographical part of that island.

       

* * * * *

Ma Prefix

In almost all Philippine languages ??contraction May or ma or me is
a prefix meaning 'Have, possess.

" With him are adjectives. Putian, white radical, it is maputi, "that is white ", ie white tamis
matamís of having or has sweetness," sweet. "

There is thus an infinite number of names that have been applied after the inhabitants of Instead,
as Maguindanaw, Malanaw Mamanuas, &. &.

Maguindanaw is the indigenous name of the island of Mindanao or rather, only part of it. Its inhabitants
are called the same way. Continued Danaw, water and lagoon, and applied this name to this region
around the great lake of Danaw.

For the Moors called Illanes, Ilan Malanaw are also referred to, has the same derivation that Maguindanaw:
lanaw, danaw variant, and the voice Illan, strictly speaking Ilan
has the same i affix origin, used more in the languages ??of the north
of the archipelago.

The mamanuas are some infidels who inhabit the Surigao peninsula and the shores of Lake of
Mainit (Mindanao).

Fr Jaime Planas Jesuit calls them "black natives of Mindanao" view identical to that of the Jesuit
PJB Heras confirmed by the French ethnographer Mr. Montano. The etymology comes to corroborate
this view, showing that the name of those black boys Banu is derived from land, country; mamanua
"inhabitants of the country" with a phonetic transformation of b in m.
A mountain tribe of infidels in the interior of Mindanao, whose district
is not known to me accuracy, or mananapes mananap called in Spanish
form. Language of Bagobos, mananap means "beast, animal" thus explains
the concept of these neighbors have those in the same island called
Manobo, Bagobo voice that means "man."

These Manobo are Malay and
inhabit the Agusan River Basin from Moncayo to Butuan: also found
in other sites on the island mainly at Cape San Agustin in east coast
of Davao and the island of Sarangani Tumanao or the East. Also is
named to the other idolatrous infidels in Mindanao, and is easy to
understand that this term embraces distant tribes to be so widespread
and attending to what it really means