 In the eyes of Madame Thiers, the last brilliant Candida had
left, the weather cleared, flashes of prestige and nobility about the Roman bust stiff and packaging
of the illustrious widow. This aura fascinated Rosalia, who exaggerating their respect for fallen
majesties, appeared to take seriously what my manager, my home ... Candida was expressed on all occasions
with ease and security and upside down across the world that gave rise to replication. He
lived in the East Wing, the humble neighborhood of what we have agreed to call the city, but
no other resident of this made more visits and spent more time away from home. All day was spent
in house to house, calling for different doors, visiting, chatting, visiting all parts the colossus
from the kitchen to the coops, and at night, without leaving the street, came to a temporary hut
so rendered as if he had run half of Madrid. Had no family a niece named Irene, about nine or
ten years, orphan of a brother Garcia Grande that had been equerry to SM This was the inseparable
friend of the Bringas girl, and in the afternoons saw, hand wrist and snack in the mouth,
playing the terrace or in the lightest of those Luengas covered streets.

The person over hint of how many lived there, and that the concept
of ranked Rosalia immediately below that of the royal family, was
the General lived Minio, Waitress more His Majesty's person very distinguished
and unblemished by any side that look at her.

In the city called him all the loving and popular name of Dona Tula, but never Rosalia I got
out the title, and everything was "Countess this, Countess of otherness and beyond." This kind
and noble lady was the sister of the Countess de Telleria and Alejandro Sanchez Botin, who
has been deputy and has appeared many times already in half a dozen parties. The Sanchez Botin
are good family, I think a solar lineage Bierzo, and are related, but remote Aransis's family. On
the same day they married two sisters, the Marquis Milagros Telleria, and Gertrude, who was the
oldest, with Colonel Mini, which quickly rose in general, winning battles in the ante-palatal
courtesans. There was no birthday of kings or princes that he did not catch a cross, or degree.
When he could not give anything higher in order of militia, two gimped, I graced him with the title
of Count Santa Barbara (from a farm that was in Navarra), having a name that whiff powder,
tallied well with his job, although it was said of him that he had never smelled more than we spend
to save. The reputation for bravery that had enjoyed was based on very rough. In the disorder
of our ideas can easily become heroes that can hardly write his name. The truth is that D. Peter
Minio, Marquis of Santa Barbara, was impressive person at a standstill, or by reviewing inspection
in the barracks, or military giving screams played by the various Directorates. Except for
some minor skirmishes that took part during the first war, civil, military history of our country
never told "This mouth is mine." But it will pass to posterity by the famous sayings of the sword
of Demosthenes Pentecost fabric and soul of Garibaldi, for that to go to Havana, stopping in
the Philippines with other stuff that collected by their subordinates, are a delicious patchwork
of nonsense. The Queen knew them fluently and had a lot of salt. But not to stir the ashes
of this void, whom the Countess said, in the most hidden folds of trust, I was awarded a beast,
and let's deal with his widow.

VII

It was all so different from the Marquise de Telleria seemed not daughters of the same mother. Nor did
he like, or the condition or the figure, with his famous brother
Alexander Sanchez Botin, a man of great means.

The few items that appear adorned they were complemented by another
form of human distinction, disgrace, privilege beings to come to perfection.

The two children who inherited the name, rudeness and the General solecisms were two good jewelry.
What happened to them that mother martyr Cavalry to pursue a career is not for cash. Were five
or six years of cruel fighting desaplicación with barbarism and the boys, a strenuous boxing
with teachers; and thanks to the name you had and I wrote little notes for each course the Queen,
left forward. And were officers and were in place, when a new series of bitter disappointments
the existence of Dona Tula. Months did not pass without one of his buds do a lot. Issues, challenges,
drunkenness, summary, gambling dens, trapping, were the history of all days, and Mom had to
remedy this with the recommendations and disbursements. Came to feel so tired, that when the
eldest, also named Peter Minio, we expressed the desire to go to Cuba, had no strength to oppose
her. The other wanted to marry woman with a bad record. New battle of the mother, who used to
avoid, how resources will allow knowledge of the world and its high position. This lady said a phrase
that stuck in the minds of all who heard it, absurd and painful cry selfishness against motherhood,
and if not a paradox, it would be blasphemy against Nature and the human species. They spoke
of children and mothers who wanted them, as well as that were in excessive number. "Ah, children!
- Dona Tula said with sad accent -. They are a nine-month illness and convalescence life. "

If the children of that lady was stupid, stunted and ugly as hell, however the sister Milagros
had given the world four angels from their tender age marked with the seal of beauty, grace
and discretion. That Leopoldito so mischievous monkey that Gustavito as early as sabidillo and sitting,
that Luisito so mystical, it seemed an apprentice saint, and especially that Mary, with green
eyes and Hellenic profile, extracted from Venus the ruins of Greece, sovereign, living sculpture,
what envanecerían mother? Doña Tula worshiped his nephews.

Were for her children that had not caused any pain to the children of another yours for the
inconvenience and thank you. To Mary, who then turned fifteen, the passionately adored grandmother,
mother or twice, and was somewhat spoiled and mimosa. The beautiful girl was Sunday and Thursday
to spend with Dona Tula all day, also used go on Tuesdays and Fridays, and sometimes on Mondays
and Saturdays. The holidays there reuníanse the overall number of girlfriends, including girls
from D. Buenaventura de Lantigua, and These premium, daughter of the famous jurist D. Juan de
Lantigua, which, if I am wrong Gloria called.

Mary!, It seemed that terrace! Nymphs had higher suit very soon would fall to the ground, and
other clothing under two weeks before had been high. Which had just received the investiture
of women were walking in groups, arm in arm doing trials of formality and quiet and discreet
conversation. Smaller ran, teaching halfway up the leg, and it is safe to say that Isabelita
Bringas and niece Dona Candida were the most rattled. When getting those galleries slip Dare to sneak
a boyfriend bittersweet pollanco a suitor, the stick, tie color,
fungus clear, and perhaps tip cigarette in amber ... Oh my God, who
could count the laughs, the hideouts, the sosadas, play innocent,
delightful nonsense Fresh those souls who had just opened their petals
to the sun of life?

The brief terms that light was crossed on the one hand, the most insipid of improved social language
and secondly the naive rantings of primitive societies. In all these cases is repeated the beginning
of the world incessantly, that is, the itching of Creation, wanting.

The playful band of half-formed women invaded the home of Bringas. Rosalia, joyful be treated
with Dona Tula, with Telleria, with Lantiguas, recibíalas with arms open, and regaled with cakes,
which had previously brought the pastry palace. "Play, tangled, shouting and confusion that
I do not bother" - playfully told Bringas from the window opening, which was submerged in the
deep immensity of their hair. Y they were not made to pray, opened the piano, one of them banging
a polka or waltz, and other, hugging each other in pairs, dance, tossing happy, laughing, crying and
kissing.

"Dance, run, the house is yours, dear girls" - he said without looking
away Thiers of the atoms that stuck to the glass, and they took it
as the literally running Gasparini dancing and jumps to Saleta went
into the Carrion and Columns.

Well I say ... when I was by shuffling Isabelita his wrists, was the beginning and no end. Precisely
Tallud the most were those that were entertained with more rage in this hilarious mock domestic
life, dressing and undressing and tow sissies china, clothing babies with glass eyes and moving the
stuff of tin kitchen cabinet or a carton. What seized the attention of all, reaching up to produce
rivalry, it was a huge doll that D. Agustin Caballero Isabelita had sent from Bordeaux, which
was a good piece, moving his eyes, he said had mom and dad and joints to be placed in all positions.
Of a creature that there was only one step, suffer.

That clothed him cool afternoon, and when a petulant rumorcillo indicated the proximity of
the chicks in the corridor when they heard his laughter in the style of skulls and their voices
sounded very close, the previous month had acquired the hoarseness of manhood, the girls stuck
their wrist to the high fence of Carrion, and here was the nonsense of them and the innocent fun of them.

For
more than D. Francisco protested the taste I had in seeing his house full of Seraphim ever bothered
him. When I admire the work happening hairy and enracimaban in around the table, the great
artist, unable to breathe in that beautiful crown heads, they said, laughing: "Girls, for God's
sake, take a little back. To see no need drowning ... or pour the paint. Care, Gloria, you take
me stuck in that hair manga. Are the trunk of the willow. Care, Mary, that your breath is
thrown into the air these gray ... Back, back, do me the favor ...».

VIII

And they, "what boniiito, what precioooso ...! Alabao God ... what angel fingers! D. Francisco,
you will go blind ...».

What story did in the Spring of 68, and on Holy Thursday of that year was one of the days when
more uproar. Don Francisco, sanctifying the holidays, attended high label his cross, and in
particular to the religious ceremony in the chapel. Rosalie also presented himself at the royal
purple, judging that his presence was indispensable to the ceremonies they had all the glitz
and pomp suitable. Candida did not go down, apparently "because I was tired of ceremonial "because
I did not really dress.

Lantigua girls and invaded Sudre From early Dona Tula room, which
by virtue of his office got very dress up, funny leaving the herd
by a lady who accompanied her.

Much of fun that day, and how did the chickens Leoncito rage, Frederick Cimarra that of Horro and
other equally beautiful and well used!

Invited them to come up with a loft deception high saying that from there you could see inside
the chapel, and then they locked me until mid-afternoon.

Because they were friends of the clerk, resident of Candida could be placed on the ladder chapel
to discern, amidst door ajar, the headpiece of the patriarch and two candles tenebrario off
of an altar covered in purple cloth, some chaplains and some bald gentlemen breasts full of crosses
and bands, but nothing more. A little later succeeded see some of the beautiful ceremony of giving
food to the poor after washing. There are the southern wing of the terrace a large glass skylights,
protected by networks wire. Correspond to the main staircase to the Hall of Columns and Guards.
Peering for them, so closely is the curved roof, which are monstrous and crudely painted figures
that decorate it. Angelone and nymphs spread their legs for Scotland enormous riding on clouds
that look like gray cotton bales.

In other figures would believe that the effort of his colossal muscle up in the air the roof
framing. In contrast, Flower Carpet, which is deep, tomaríanse by thumbnails.

Crowd of people of all kinds, people in the city, came very early to catch place in the Hall of
Columns skylights for the food of the poor. It enracimaban women with large circles of glass,
and as there was no holes, which could be placed in the front, even delivering elbows, enjoyed
that pompous royal act of humility that everyone plays as you want. There were some who cut the glass
with a diamond ring to practice huequecillos where none existed. What a mess, what a crowd murmur
of impatient and talkative! Strangers, who had been invited as they were so intrusive that they
wanted to if all the belvedere. More Candida, with that authority that he knew clothed at all
times serious, sent clear one of the skylights to take free possession of her girls Telleria,
Lantigua and Bringas. Démontrer lady! He threatened to put out a
stranger if all people not obeyed.

Curious spectacle was the Hall of Columns as seen from the roof. The table of the twelve poor
did not look very good, but that of the twelve old was in front and not a detail lost. What
a shame the unhappy with their merino dresses, their new shawls and the head scarves! Verse
among much pomp, served by the Queen herself, including that the asked a sad day before farthing
in the door of a church! ... No lifting his eyes table rather than to look astonished those who
served them. Some shed tears of embarrassment rather than gratitude, for its position among
the mighty of the land and to the charity of label that favored more was to humiliate that pamper.
If all effort of imagination would not be sufficient to represent Christ in tails, there is no
reasoning which can convince us that this comedy palace has nothing to do with Gospel.

The plates were taken at the door, hands raised, for the straight people waiter made in this
pious occasion. Forming chain, ladies and gentle men were going to the very hands of the Kings,
who presented them to the poor air of kindness and courtesy, the only sympathetic note in that
picture theatrical farce. But the unhappy not eat, if they were eating had a great hurry to
see. Probably his clumsy hands could not remember how it carries food to the mouth. Rations
placed on the table, a servant was caught them and put in two baskets that had every poor behind
from his seat. Shortly afterwards, when real people and the greatness left the room, out those
with her basket, and the chambers of the pastries were waiting innkeepers Madrid or other unique
merchants to buy everything for a few dollars.

The duration of the food, the gracious spectators did not stop his
talk talkative.

Mary Egyptian, would have liked to be down, with great dress tail, passing trays.