 It wasn't a historical work, or biographic, that was traced and projected,
but a square of traditions and living paint or a loyal picture of what we have today in each province in
its use, culture, ideas, and more clothing, conditions and acts of the women. And being the
situation like that, I repeat that I was not aware of anything or almost anything that would
stop the monotony of the work by the object, although by the subject, or I'll say instead,
by the subjects, came to be a garden of flowers, like the cape of a student, merciful to the diversity
of styles and to the idiosyncrasies of each writer that would put
its hand on it.

Like so, although less more or even less, I wandered, when family duties took me to riñón to the
province of Córdoba; and a joyous province where the local provincial color is released with
full hands by lavish nature and inexhaustible in its various creations. And with this color
being, this seal, this type of everything, "How?" I said to myself. "It must not be in the woman, which
is soft wax to receive marks, and hard bronze to keep them without
them vanishing?"

More than five months I passed in my place and during this time I didn't change my mind respecting
the book of Mr. Guijarro. I had not one excuse left to not write the article. I was persuaded
that if the Cordoba that I painted was not his type of genre, it was
because I did not know how to paint what I was seeing in a very clear
manner.

I decided later, since then, to make that picture, confessing with ingenuity that, if it does not turn
out new and original, the fault would be mine and not of the model.

One thing bothers me still, and makes my goal difficult. At the sight and treating of the
Cordoba of the day, the almost erased species of my childhood and first youth visit my imagination. Tired,
far unfortunately, slept or were buried in my mind, of the Cordoba
of the first third of this century. The disparity between the memory
and the present impression always confuse me a bit. The type of feminine
Cordoba has not disappeared, but it was changed. Alas, the change
has not been for good, from the ordinary to the exotic