 If someone was inclined to Italy, where such another, often appearing this kind
of figures that look like English ladies cooked by the sun of Naples. In some Rafael boxes
are some that can give an idea of ??our lady.

The predominant expression of his face at that moment was that of a proud disdain. This perhaps
contributed sunlight, which forced him to knit his brow smooth and delicate. There to confess,
at that sweet face had not. Below lines are correct and secure sensed a haughty spirit, without
tenderness. Those blue eyes were not the serene and limpid that complement adorable faces certain
virgin who can admire some time in our country and more often in northern Europe. Were made, no doubt,
to express a throng of vivid and violent passions. Maybe once touched his turn to burning
love and passionate, but never to humble and dumb who is resigned to die unknown. On his head a
pointed hat, red, with small, clear veil, red as well, which reached only the lips of this
veil reflexes contributed to give the face the strange hue that impressed those who crossed his
side. Rich wore fur, silk suit color of the hat, the other covered the skirt of tulle or Granada,
which was then the latest fashions.

Led, as we have said, the sleeve up to eye level, they perched on the ground as he has nothing
to do or go with what happens around them. Therefore, until you reach Calle Jorge Juan, did
not notice the presence of a young man from the sidewalk counter and walking hand in hand with
it looked even more admiration than curiosity. Al get here, without knowing why, raised his
head and his eyes met those of her admirer. A clearly perceptible movement of disgust followed such
a meeting. The front of the lady more severely wrinkled and stressed the haughty look in his
eyes. Pressed a little passage: and on arriving at the Conde de Aranda Street stopped and looked
back, to undoubtedly to see if he was a tram. The boy did not dare to do the same thing kept
going, not without directing live and greedy glances, which the gentle lady did not bother
to reciprocate. The car finally arrived, he sat on it revealing, in so doing, an exquisite boots
on with biotin morocco, and was to sit in the far corner. As if one looks safe and free from prying
eyes, his eyes were calmer slowly and nonchalantly rested the few people in the carriage had,
but did not disappear completely in the shadow of concern spread over his face, or the gesture
of disdain that her beauty was breathtaking.

The young fan had not waived out of sight. He continued, certainly, down the street de Recoletos
down, but when it saw the tram crossing grabbed him and climbed nicely without being noticed.
And making sure that the lady did not notice its presence, hiding behind another person who
was standing on the platform, began furtively to contemplate a enthusiasm that would make
anyone smile. Because it was larger the age difference was between them. Our boy looked about
eighteen years. His beardless face, fresh and like a pink lady, the blond hair, blue eyes,
soft and sad. Although American dress and fungus, revealed by her dress like a gentleman. Went
rigorous mourning, which considerably enhances the whiteness of her skin. For the magnetic influence
own eyes and that everyone could see, our lady did not take long to return theirs to the place
where the young passionate admiration vibrating beams. Turned to cloud his face again noted on
his lips a moment of impatience, as if the poor child injury with their worship. And even then clearly
began to show signs of be upset in the car, shaking his handsome head and pray to one side,
now another, with visible desire to get out. But not until arriving in San Jose, against whose
church was stopped by and down, past his pursuer with a look of fierce disdain capable of annihilation.

O
was very reckless or very little shame when it must have jumped into the street toward her
and began to follow by the Caballero de Gracia, walking down the
sidewalk opposite to better enjoy the figure that both fascinated him.

The lady was running slowly by looking back to those men crossed to his side. It was his pass
that of a goddess that down for a moment worthy of the throne of clouds to recreate and fascinate
fatal that look is imbibed and gave strong tripping.

- My mother Amparo, woman! - Cried aloud to his fellow cadet holding as if about to faint from
fright.

The beautiful faintest could not repress a smile, whose light could
better see the pilgrim beauty of it was endowed.

In open carriage down two gentlemen who sent it reverent greeting, to which she responded with an
imperceptible nod. Al reach the corner, on the same network of San Luis, stopped hesitantly, looked
everywhere and perceiving the blond young man again turned his back with obvious contempt and
began to fall more quickly by Montera Street, where his presence caused among pedestrians the
same emotion. Three or four times stopped in front of the windows but were warned more than curiosity
stood nervous state in which the tenacious pursuit The young man had set. Near the Puerta del Sol, no
doubt to outrun, resolvióse to enter Marabini in jewelry. Carelessly sat on a chair, lifted the
veil slightly hat and began to examine the jewelry distracting the clerk newcomers the store
was displaying. It was the worst he could do to escape the eyes of Teens love. For this, in comfort,
safe, is the barreled by glass window with an insistence that more and more enraged.

The truth is that this little shop beautifully decorated, where shining everywhere metals and
precious stones, was decent room for the beautiful, the best case suited to such a delicate
jewel. So he must have thought the young blond, judging by ecstasy
passionate eyes and marble immobility of the figure.

At last, the lady can not overcome this irritation produced it, alzose abruptly from his chair
and leave with Dependent dry phrase, special considerations kept him, left the trade and came
to the Puerta del Sol in a hurry. Here he paused, then took a few steps into a cab, as if to
enter it, but suddenly changed course, and steadily moved toward the main street, and not
always escorted away by the young. Al reach half of it soon entered into a sumptuous house looks,
not without throwing before fast and furious glance at his pursuer, who received and rarely
with complete serenity.

The porter, who was standing in the doorway gravely stroking his long whiskers, despojóse strongly
of the cap, he bowed and ran to open the glass door that led to the stairs, then pressing the button
of an electric bell. Uploader carpeted stairs slowly, and reach the
main door was open and servant in livery waiting at its foot.

The house belonged to Hon. D. Julian Calderon, head of the banking house of Calderon and Brothers
which occupied the entire principal of it, using different step of the other floors, I had rented.
This was the son of another Calderón Calderón well known in the trade
Madrid, wholesale dealer tanned hides, which they had made a good
fortune and that in the last years of his life had been enhanced,
focusing, at the same trade, the rotation and discount of bills.

He died, his son, Julian continued his work without detracting a point, driving his having married
his two sisters, one a physician, the other with an owner of La Mancha. At the time I was married
many years ago with the daughter of a merchant in Zaragoza, called D. Thomas Osorio, father
of the famous Madrid banker of the same name, who had his palace hotel with honors in the neighborhood
Salamanca, Calle Ramon de la Cruz. The beautiful lady who has just come into the house is This banker's
wife and sister-thus, Madame de Calderón.

The servant went ahead without waiting until it's announced, rose strongly as who is entitled
to it, went through three or four large rooms luxuriously appointed and she lifted the curtain
rich embroidered satin stripe, entered into an additional room reduced where several people
were gathered. In the chair next to the fireplace the lady was ensconced in the house, woman
of about forty, thick, regular features, black eyes, big and beautiful,
but light, white complexion, her hair a light brown too thin.

Beside her, in a small armchair, was another lady, who was contrast with her dark, slender,
slight, of extraordinary mobility, both in his little eyes piercing that any figure. It was
the Marquise de Alcudia, the first nobility of Spain. The three young people were sitting on
chairs in the row, were his daughters, very similar to it in the physical, but not imitated in
mobility, rigid and silent, eyes downcast, with modesty and restraint so affected, soon to be missed
to see the severe regime to the subject was alive and his mother nervous. With one occasionally
spoke aloud low the daughter of Mr. Calderon, a girl of fourteen or fifteen years, round-faced, eyes
small nose arremolachada and some seams on the neck, heralds of a temper scrofulous. This girl spent
even braided hair with a bow at the tip of the braid, the same as the last of Alcudia, with
whom he held timid and intermittent conversation. This, and his sisters, had two separate head
and whimsical hats, while Esperanza (which thus formed the master's daughter) walking round
with her head uncovered. The matinee blue dress, too short for his age. Messrs. Calderon only
had this daughter and a toddler. Faced with the woman, reclining in a chair alike Patiño was
General Earl of Morillejo. Found between the fifties and sixties, but retains in his eyes the
fire of youth, his gray hair is carefully combed the long whiskers to Victor Emmanuel, the knob
pointed, aquiline nose give it a nice and perky. It is the perfect type of senior aristocrat.
Beside him on another chair, Calderon was a man of about fifty, stout, round face and pink,
adorned by short gray whiskers, round eyes, lazy and dull. Near him an old lady who was the mother
of Calderon's wife, although much different from her in the face and Figure: slim to the point of having
no more than the skin on the bones, dark, sunken eyes and insightful, revealing in every feature
of his physiognomy intelligence and determination. Speaking Pinedo with it is the tenant of
the third quarter. Although no gray mustache, is easily guess that is stained, his face is that of
a man walking near the sixties: good-natured face, bulging eyes that move briskly, such as
those with a temperament observer. Dress with style and extraordinary neatness evident throughout
his person.

Seeing the door to our beautiful lady, the gathering was moved. All stand seat except Ms. Calderon,
whose face was drawn stopped a faint smile of pleasure.

- Ah, Clementine! What a miracle to see you here, woman!

The lady came forward smiling, and as he kissed the ladies and shook hands with the gentlemen, responded
to the loving rebuke of his sister.

- Go! Apply the band, daughter, you do not look at my house rather than semesters.

- I have children, my dear.

- Look what you apologize! I also I have.

- In Chamartín.

- Well, having children does not deprive you of going to Real and
the promenade.

Clementina sat between his sister and the Marquise de Alcudia.

Other reoccupied their seats.

- Oh, my child - said they respond to the last sentence .-- If I only knew how catarrazo caught
the other night at the theater!

Ramon Maldonado's fool is the one that has been fault.

With so much greeting and ceremony, not just close the door of the
box.

That Cast air penetrated my bones.

- Has been fortunate that air
- said with a smile Patiño gallant General.

They smiled less interested, he looked wide-eyed surprise.

- What
fortune?

It was necessary for the general to give him the courtesy scarf, only then paid for it with
a smile.

- Is not it true that it has been very well Gayarre? - Said Clementina.

-
Wonderful! as always - his sister said.

- I find lacking in ways
- said the general.

- Oh, no, general!

... Allow me ....

And he insisted a discussion about whether the famous tenor had or
had not performance art, if was or was not elegant in dress.

The ladies did their part. Gentlemen you were effects.

The tenor went to the soprano.

- It's all a beautiful woman - said the general security and the conviction
of an accent intelligent.

- Oh! - Calderón said.

- Well, I find
the Tosti pretty ordinary, does not it seem to you, Clementine?

This confirmed the species.

- Do not say that, Marquise, where a
woman is tall and thick does not indicate that it is ordinary if you
have pride in the size and distinction in the ways - was quick to
say the general, while throwing a peek at Ms. Calderon.

- Neither
do I argue that, generally, do not take you the wrong end of the sheets
- said the Marchioness with extraordinary vividness, then attacking
verve and a bit different and good grace irritated detail of the treble.

Generalizóse

the dispute, and the opposite happened in the previous. The knights were kind to the singer while
the ladies you were hostile. Pinedo summed up, saying grave and solemn in tone, which was noticeable,
however, the sarcasm:

- In women, good manners are essential in humans.

Clementina and the general exchanged a smile and a meaningful glance. The Marquise looked the dapper
gentleman with hardness and then turned quickly to his daughters,
who were with downcast eyes, the same rigid attitude and always silent.

Pinedo remained grave and indifferent, as if he had said the most natural thing in the world.

-
For me, friend Pinedo, I believe men should also have good ways -
said the lady Panfila Calderón.

In saying that there was a faint breath, like suppressed laughter
with work.

It was the last girl the Marquise de Alcudia, whom his mother looked
at pulverizing.

The appearance of the girl returned instantly to its original shy and modest expression.

- An opinion ...-- Pinedo said, bowing respectfully.

This Pinedo, who occupied one third of the rooms in the same house owned by Calderon played a
very important job in the public. Swings policy failed to wrest from him. I had friends in
all parties, but had been never determined by anyone. It was the life of the man of the world
entered the aristocratic houses of the court, was familiar to most of the characters in the
banking and politics was a former member of the Savage Club, where the plate every night joke young
aristocrats who met there, who treated him all too confident that rarely degenerated into rudeness.
He was affable, intelligent, fluent and skilled in treatment of men, tolerant of all sorts of
vanity for the same contempt he felt to them. However, in the guise of polite and inoffensive
man, kept in the background of his soul a satirical background helped him to get back nicely, with
some incisive phrase and timely, the excesses of his friends the premature Club. These he
professed a mixture of affection, contempt and fear. No one knew their origin, although it was
for sure who was born in humble birth. Some made him the son of a butcher of Seville and others
will Rogue declared the beach in Malaga in their youth. What was known as positive was that many
years ago had appeared in Madrid and Andalusia title parasite, which, having dissipated his fortune,
skipped the brains. In the company of this, our Pinedo acquired a large number of useful relations,
came to know and treat all people making viso, among which was popular. He had good touch
of dodge when he stumbled an inflated and arrogant man, leaving step. Not excite the jealousy of anyone
and this is sure way not to be hated. At the same time his wit, his sly character, he sought
always keep within certain limits, often awoke in the gatherings
of joy; enough to give them some meaning, that would not otherwise
have enjoyed.

No other family had a daughter of eighteen years called Pilar. His wife, whom nobody knew, had
died many years ago. His salary was forty thousand pieces, and he lived father and daughter financially,
in the third that Calderon left for twenty dollars a month. Pinedo expenditures were over represented.
As a society superior frequented which, given its position, it should have had to be smartly
dressed and to assist theaters. Realizing the absolute need to continue cultivating their relationships,
which were the pillars on which his employment was based, imposed such extravagance without hesitation,
saving it elsewhere in the household budget. He lived thus in permanent state of balance. Employment
allowed to frequent the society of arrogant, while they helped him unconsciously to keep their
jobs. No minister would dare to stop at a Loss man she was going to stumble at all gatherings and
balls of the court. Pinedo was then the honor to speak some time with real people, some of
your phrases ran through the classrooms and perhaps more celebrated than it deserved, as well
as in the classroom often have little wit, throwing quite well with rifle and pistol and was
intelligent and library had a hearty respect the culinary arts. The highest figures were feeling
flattered when they heard that Pinedo praised his cook.

- When you've been in school, Pacita? - Quietly asked Hope to less
than the Marquise de Alcudia.

- Then on Friday, do not you know that
Mom takes us every Friday to confess?

And you?

- I do at least three weeks since I've been.

Mom and I confess every month.

- What content with that Ortega's father?

- I do not say anything
.... I do not know if my mom ....

- Do not say, no: you know very
well where you put your foot.

Have you seen the Mariani?

- Yes, a few days ago, in the Retiro.

- Do not you know that Mary
has taken a boyfriend?

- Do not tell me anything.

- Yes, cavalry
... Arcos brigadier's son .... A more gawky guy