 

Inesita opened his eyes and mouth, and shocked, to hear that there
were several styles to watch.

Doña Beatriz, not abandon his idea that the innocence of his sister gave him more money, he began
to think that if this candor bordering on blindness, could harm their plans. Something seemed
desirable and when not to unleash the band, loosen it a bit.

It was time to start to Inesita in the simplest mysteries of this
rogue world.

Moved by this thought, Beatriz said:

- Yes, my daughter, there are many styles to watch.

- Okay, sister, and I understand it - said Ines -.

Although I'm pretty stupid and ignorant all, because the people I've
spent my life sewing, playing with dolls, taking care our old tutor
and fixing the small altar, where San Antonio was the Christ Child
in the arms, while you were reading, studies and conversations, still
reaches me that look in different ways: for example, with affection
and indifference.

- Yes.

- I do not understand is why the wives
know that, and do not know why single women.

- For single women should
not know, because if they do, they should pretend to ignore it, and
because they lose a lot if you look through art, not to be so wonderful
to look at art that even the most cunning you note.

- And tell me,
sister, do not it could be that, without reflection, and by virtue
of that instinct, more and less fallible inspired reflection, looked
silly sometimes a single as well or better married to the most skilled?

-
Everything is possible.

Ingenuity can do everything. I, however, to tell you the three major
pitfalls they may encounter if you try to look at men.

First obstacle: that you be the eyes behind those who look, which is surrender, surrender and
feet tied and hands, making love to warm you if you breathe in, or profane and ridicule and mock
Your love if you do not apply.

Second obstacle: that look like shyness or distrust amazed and surly, and risk a silly pass
soda or not so. And the third obstacle, which possesses look at the science and other sciences
that presuppose the look, failed to conceal and ensure this wisdom,
and you accused and zahieran of lizard, of Lycurgus, the brash and
free and sick known for married.

- I think, Beatrice, in order to
avoid these pitfalls it is best to let go of the impulse.

- Oh, my
daughter!

No phrase meaningless. According Braulio, who read many tomes in leisure, at least as mankind has
twelve thousand years of civilization. Where will become of the legitimate and natural pure
impulse, after the fuss of beliefs, laws, doctrines, customs, habits, fashions and social conventions?
Take a Greyhound to your natural momentum. Become a savage, or seek him among the wild if you
have it. In addition, the natural impulse, the impulse of mere nature, is sinful and wrong. I miss
a girl, so good Christian as you are, be wary of natural impulse. Well good nature was then original
sin, for us to trust it.

- Women, I was wrong, I explained wrong.

What I meant was that it should get carried away, to look like for
all of my Christian feelings, that my natural impulse, as amended
and refined by the moral and religious education, thank God, I have
received.

- But look here, innocent!

What brings the doctrine of the Father Ripalda on these interesting details? Not anticipated
and left you in the dark. Our tutor, in the long sermons to us missed, never touched this point.
How did they calculate the Father and our guardian Ripalda were going to stroll in the Buen
Retiro, and you would be chased by a Condesito, handsome, elegant, noble, with car and drives more
than 15,000 income? In this complicated case involving thousand elements alien to the moral theology.
And what is the car, the elegance, the county, income of 15,000, the concerts of the Buen
Retiro and countless other circumstances, nothing have to do with nature are on the summit of it,
can and should be regarded as supernatural, because they are added
and superimposed on the natural and the culture of the century.

Laughter and good humor with which Dona Beatriz said all this a bit
puzzled Inesita.

Also did not know whether to cast it as a joke or replicate seriously. Resolvióse the end of the
second, and said:

- Sister, whether natural or supernatural circumstances, persist in believing safer any device
and study this I call my natural impulse. Sincerity and honesty is always what counts brings up the
practical and useful. I deny that science or the art of looking. For anything you need. A girl
must look honest and modest every lover of good breeding and advise, not to appear rude, in
general affect he feels or should feel for all others, and with due caution, that the gallant not misinterpret
his benevolence and the promise happy.

If you pass the handsome heartthrob indifferent a handsome lover, and love inspire the girl the
convenient way of looking at who you love, without you drop in to learn it by art.

- Hey, Ines - "Dona Beatriz -, no joke I'm talking about, but with great seriousness in the
background. You'd be right in what you say if there were no transition period between being
in love and not to be. You yourself have said. If the suitor goes from indifferent to love. Well,
for this step are the rules and art. Who is unrequited loves and really, look at him as want.
Love itself will teach you how to look at him but my daughter, is not that; this is the one who
you love and yet still loves you.

- A look at like that neighbor it.

- There's your mistake, Ines. You put no middle ground between indifference and love. That jump
itself is unnatural, dangerous and improbable. Nobody goes, fortunately, indifference to love
without degrees, procedures and terms means. For not so! Daughter, love is little Apoc. From
indifference, or rather, from the general affection to all others at that unique feeling called
love, there is a sliding scale that goes up point point and that is the period of flirtation.
Without such a flirt, without leaving perched grades or steps of
the aforementioned scale, no one ever comes to the temple of the true
love, no glory reaches its favor gift.

- How is that?

"So I may not love or be loved without flirting never before?

-
I do not deny the possibility, but would be difficult, extraordinary.

In novels, poetry only, see, for example, a man who sees passing in the street to a lady, and
pataplum ... suddenly ... català died of love for her. She also looks ... and goodbye rest
and trial, not knowing if a rogue or a good man, a fool or a wise, rich or poor, and we love. The
rationale is this: the rational is that people are treated, talk, know, are deemed, fans go to
each other, until after you love. All this period is what I call flirting. See you if the flirting
is necessary and useful. No love it there. If not please with a face that guests dismiss, ignore
anyone, no look at anyone but as a neighbor while not feel love, and love or ever will come to
your soul or you infuse it with another human soul ever.

Flirting is thus a rite, a cult a prayer, an evocation of love to
come.

I say all this to stop you prudery and go be something flirty. And I wish that you are with distinction
and smoothness without impeachment of any kind, with the composure and modesty required, and keeping
that wonderful candor, that aspect of pure innocence that God has placed in your gesture and
in your face, so I recommend the divine art.

- And with this art, what will I earn?

- Earn you love. We go to a particular case. Let's talk about the other night Condesito. I know
that does not love him. Thanks be to God that it has not done so flammable that you put to
love a man only to see him pass. There is no presumption that he is hopelessly love you. Neither
do men fall in love suddenly. What is likely, almost certainly, Condesito is that I found beautiful,
graceful and elegant, have imagined that you are good and you are well educated, in which no mistakes,
and I admire and attracted to you curious sympathy and other sinful desires and thoughts. I
grant, moreover, that the young Count, with its arrogance, which is great, is promised triumphs
and victories that make you favor.

Well, this is the foundation of a flirt.

Care not to frighten those sympathies by putting springs stick side; matter curb undue expectations
and daring is necessary to tame with due respect at all irreverent purpose, and should finally
attract the Condesito, to see if he loves you and you love him.

- But I do not love him.

- I know you dont love him. Did not I say? He loves you or not. But nobody ever gonna love
you no you love anyone if you keep going? How did you go to if you love as if it were bony
Croaker?

Inesita almost felt defeated. Her sister continued to make very wise and deep reflection, the
girl came to hallucinate and imagine that flirtation, within certain
limits, was a duty, which was missing.

Inesita promised, then follow the advice of her sister far, no violence,
he could, and be a little flirty, with dignity and would learn the
art.

Doña Beatriz certainly gave the following night at the Buen Retiro,
would find the little Count, he would be persecuted and have occasion
to show his ability Inesita, untested for flirtation.

According to Beatriz, all paper Inesita the next night was just saying with the eyes, lazy style
and clear, however, with such art that seem thoughtless phrase and spontaneous, with impeccable
purity and simplicity of intention and without promising anything
to pass friend: "Me you nice, although I deplore it as much as you
are a fool.

I glad to treat you, but for that you want it to be less vain and more restrained, and are then
presented as the good society requires and so it does not crash. "

Inesita argued that his eyes could not reel off as long rant. Doña Beatriz, On the contrary,
claimed that with the eyes said it all without difficulty.

This question was, when knocked Don Braulio, and then entered the room, interrupting the two
sisters.

The man was as he had described the Earl of Alhedín: skinny, bald, small body not pretty, and
though he was only forty-five, seemed to have ten more, because the
work, care and trouble he had aged.

He was dressed in clean and simple. His dark face was wonderful expression of kindness and
intelligence.

His black eyes, only beautiful thing in him, every eye sparkled with bright light and sharp. His
cheeks sunken cheeks were furrowed with wrinkles, but in your mouth, rather large to small,
had strength and spirit, and his thin lips were folded gracefully, providing entertainment to all appearance
and showing two rows of white teeth, healthy and well placed. Don's nose Braulio, though not deformed,
was one if not acaballo or parrot's beak.

Don Braulio had been very tired, and the few words she spoke to women felt all retiring to bed.

The
first one left the room was Dona Beatriz.

Don Braulio was a moment alone with Ines. There came to her and said quietly:

- Agnes, I have to comply with a commission that you have given me.

Take this letter, save and read it to stop and rest. Which requires
written not talk to anyone about the letter, but me if you want.

So your sister has to be a secret. Do you understand? There are also another rare condition.
The answer you give no support to you within a month and begs the same time does not slow to
give it more than four months.

Don Braulio, that said, put the letter in the hands of Ines, and went
where his wife had gone, without waiting to read the letter Inesita
or do him any questions about it.

Seemed Don Braulio also wanted Inesita meditate calmly, before speaking of the important business
letter undoubtedly was.

V

Just looked Inesita was alone in the address of the card, and without emotion, almost a curiosity,
at least perceptible, would open it and read it, when he appeared on the scene a new character,
did the girl keep it rushed the letter in his pocket.

This new character was the mistress Teresa. Love does not ever called him because he had been
breeding but because he had been housekeeper of the parish priest. Was already closer to the
sixties of fifty years, and had looked with great care and affection of Beatrice and Agnes
from they had been orphaned. A much loved them both, but as it had looked Inesita from more
child, and as Inesita was single, had greater familiarity with it
confidence.

By a strange hallucination, more often than we think, the housekeeper,
as if the years had passed in vain, or had not happened, did not see
the woman Inesita already formed, but the girl spoiled little girl
who had both.

Still, therefore, and treating it as mimándola Inesita had five or six years. Their actions
Inesita regarding resented this hallucination, but in his speeches, when he spoke with it, there was
a funny combination of mimes and innocence with which it comes to creatures, and the efforts
of wit and discretion studied with ignorant people and crude attempt
to catch up with those of whose knowledge and intelligence have made
the concept better