 Merciful God! Is it the end that the door of his house?

He put his hand on the knob of shiny metal.

"Is this - he thought - the first and last time I call here? ".

Do not have time to do more considerations.

Philip opened the door.

"Do you love ...?».

- It is not ... But whatever you ...

Amparo entered. And it was! ... Fate frowned, announcing a disaster.

These jokes of the time how heavy they are!

These apparent discrepancies eternal clock, making sometimes match
the steps of people, some not, contrary to human wishes always, and
to our, already hurt us, are the most readily visible in the large
reality of time.

While not appreciate the idea of ??continuity without these frequent disengagement of our
steps with the toothed wheel that is not spent endless ever.

Art, abusing Perhaps for their own purposes, could not discredit
this hidden logic, on the terms machine rests private and public events,
and these come to be pedestal of the organism we call history.

"Do you know where he go?" - Said the Empress from the room.

- At
the home of Dona Marcelina Polo, Calle de la Estrella.

This morning I went to an appointment, and they told me at noon.

-
At midnight!

...

- Yes, ma'am ... I do not know how you found him.

Not ten minutes left.

Must go now Hita by street or alley of the Dog.

Have you come by Costanilla?

- Yes, and by car.

- Aguárdele you ... will soon return.

He went from classroom to cabinet, and then another that was ... yours.

Irony of fate!

Centeno is away ...

"Philip."

- Miss ...

- Nothing, nothing.

Is ...

Pulse gave him out again and run back home.

He represented in his dazed mind two papers written by her long before, two brief letters, full
of nonsense and greater shame that you could conceive ... His heart was not heart razor was
running wild shot and was going to break any time now ... Goodbye hope! At the time Knight entered
the apartment of the wife of mahogany, both spoke ...

"Philip."

-
Miss ...

- I'm ... show me the output.

I find it difficult to walk through this maze.

He took a few steps.

Lacked forces and sank down into a chair. Feared losing consciousness.

"Are you ill? ... Do you want to call Dona Marta? ".

- No, by God, do not call anyone.

Look over, please bring me a glass of water.

- At the time.

In the short time that Philip was out, Amparo spread their looks for the luxury room where he was.
"Here was I going to live - she thought, as fierce off the bottom rejected of his soul the
wild joy that he wanted to enter it -. I would live here ... because here I my life is finished.

"Thank
you - said to Philip, taking the glass of water and putting it on the table -. Now I'll to do
another favor. "

- What you send me.

- Well, you have the goodness
- Amparo said slowly, searching her bag and pulling out a paper -
go to the pharmacy, which is in the same street, two doors down ...
Take the recipe, I bring this medicine ... It's something that I take
every day for the nerves, you know .. Wait, have the money ... Prontito
runs, here I wait ...

- I at the time.

From the hallway, and rushed
back Centeno said

'If you do not get bored ...».

- What?

- Nothing,
I'm going to wind the music box of pajarucos. This will entertain
you while alone.

The orchestra began to play in miniature, and birds,
opening and flapping their Piquitos wings, it seemed that singing
in that forest enclosed in a lantern. Very satisfied of its occurrence,
Felipe went.

The unfortunate turned his attention to the birds during
very short time. Then he thought In its resolution, which was unbreakable.
In five minutes everything concluded. When he returned, he would find
her dead. What would you say? What would you do? ... Why would rage,
determined to kill her or to say terrible things, what was far worse
than death. How to support such a shame big? ... Impossible, impossible.
Killing all end soon. In the concern for suicide no longer occur to
the similarity that steps had to play or novel, and Thus their enthusiasm
cooled momentarily murderer. Abhorred affectation. But remembering
the cards, such was his horror of existence, but did not want Felipe
come back soon to conclude at once