 The
more easily they made a killing, the more difficult it was that they crawled forward. The Corporal
and Elisha tried to impose order, and when the bride and groom reached the car, outside the church
was an angry mob, shouting and kicking. They would disperse and then again they would meet as a buzzing
throng. It was like a riot, overcome by it's own fatigue. The last absurd cries were: "You fucked the
most ... I'm out of here ... there is no decency here ... how rogue ... “. Mockery, that was how
they mostly swiped, like toads and snakes coming from their mouths, arousing the spirits of all the
group against the Corporal and Elisha. Finally, the police intervened, threatening to arrest them
if they did not quieten down, and this sounded like words from God. The intruders made off; and
those of the house went into the passage. Benina removed everybody's order of the day, including the
funeral and wedding, 22 pennies, and Almudena, 17, Casiano and Elisha
were said to have taken a peseta and a half each.

When retiring together, the blind Moroccan and Benina, lamenting their ill-fortune, ended up, as
before, at the Plaza del Progreso, and they sat down on the pedestal of the statue to deliberate
about the difficulties and anguishes of that day. Benina did not know what Saint to place trust
in any more; the alms of the day had yet to begin, because it was unavoidable to pay some deudillas
in the establishments of the road de la Ruda, in order to maintain the credit and power to hustle
money some more days. Almudena said that he was in absolute inability to favour it; the most
he could do was give the dogs in the morning and at night, so he could take the rest of the
day, asking in his customary position, Duke of Dawn street, next to the quarter of the Civil Guard.
He rejected the old woman's generosity, because he also needed to live and to feed himself, in which
he replaced the Moroccan who had a coffee with bread crumbs, in the Cross of the Sign, he
had enough to get by until the night. Not wishing to accept the offer, the question made Benina swear
on the King of Baixo Terra, showing a confidence and faith that was easily explained by the great
necessity that it was.

The mysterious stranger looks for his proselytes in the kingdom of despair, inhabited by the souls
that find consolation nowhere. “Right now"--the poor woman said--,
"I want to buy the things.

Today it is Friday, and tomorrow Saturday we do the test. --Gather
your things, without speaking… --Clearly, without saying a word.

What is there to lose by doing the test? And another thing: it's clear it has to be precisely
at midnight”.

The blind person answered yes,
repeating the essential rules and conditions for the effectiveness
of the spell, and Benina tried to fix it everything to her memor