 Then Don Recaredo forward and extended his hand. A whole this
was in the air as the 'Lope' given by many mouths, and with it and I knew the story of Don
Roman busts in his village, narrated thoroughly by my uncle several times, say by known character, and
I was right, for a few moments brought me hand Mr. Perez de la Llosía and presenting said:

-
My best friend and noblest Coteruco neighbors of mine, Don Lope of
Oak Grove.

Comes to Tablanca to offer you personally for all the friendship and respect that he deserved the
virtues Don Celso, and to pray for his soul at the funeral today.

Reciprocated with the utmost cordiality and as best I could to those noble offerings; knew where
he went over there, and unwilling to accept a moment of rest, which did not need back and
went the way to church with us ... I say bad, with only Romao, they took it on his own course,
a good distance away from others, that nothing we come closer to them respecting the holy avidity
with which the noble expatriate Coteruco would use this providential opportunity to know more about
what he knew about the state of affairs of his native town, although they were drawn with the
pick of their desire for that chest of four keys. Meanwhile, Don Alvaro de la Gerra was charting
new and very curious character traits to the incredible original, of that gentleman mountaineer.

Thus
we come to church, where we had not managed to penetrate without
leaving, as they left it, some of those inside, which barely fit after
the porch, also was jammed with people.

The length of the trades did not go down a minute of two hours calculated,
and when we returned the house that it had gone to church, it's strange
that he wanted become Don Lope to Coteruco from there, and it has
become without the intervention of Don Roman, unique among all us
acquainted with the springs that are governed this eccentric character,
he was the table set up with all the grandeur of ancestry ... and
something else that had been acquired, even in the homes of friends,
including Don Pedro Nolasco and physician.

Because we passed a dozen and half the guests, between insiders and outsiders.

At one time I would have an accident in the presence of that food menu, the more than the food
itself, because it was truly frightening that come to the table (taken by Facia and his daughter,
suffocated by the bustle and glistening skin) piles of dishes sausage with shrapnel, from piles
of chicken upside down between gaps of fat; Steak threaded; of lean with hard boiled eggs, meat
in all sorts of dishes, stuffed duck sausage and tenderloin, and
after it, the custard as millstones, and the custard and rice pudding,
a little less than boilers.

They did not understand the direction otherwise women who had handled, and so I explained I
perfectly the desires and anxieties, and people and things that had moved into the house and removed
at the place and out of three day at that hour.