 For some of these skylights went into full day glow
of gas. In the alcove to the right cabinet was installed the marriage bed; the room, which was
larger and clearer, Rosalie served wardrobe, and work room; the cabinet on the left became high
due to its proximity to the kitchen. In two children slept inside parts.

I do not know if it came from the fertile imagination of Bringas or pedantic Paquito assimilation
the idea of ??making the rooms of the famous names humble abode stays flat principal. A month
of living there, all young and old Bringas called the Living Room Ambassadors, being intended
for visits of compliment and ceremony. The cabinet on the right, where was the office of Thiers
and the marital bedroom, he was called Gasparini, no doubt to be the prettiest of the house.
The other cabinet was named the Saleta. The dining-room was Hall of Columns, the bedroom-closet
Carrion received by the nickname of Palace stay room that serves as guards, and the inner part
where ironed was called the Furriel.

To go to his office, D. Francisco did not have to go out. Or down the stairs Cáceres, then through
the patio, or if the weather was rainy, crossed the city high up the ladder of Women, addressing
the arcades to Real Estate. As left little to the street to the umbrella had ceased to be necessary
in that happy home, complement all tastes and desires.

In the vicinity there were families who Rosalia, with all its orgullete, had no choice to conceptualize
higher. Others were far below its greatness Pipaón, but with all it was restored and all ceremonial
inaugural visit to his residence in the population superpalatina. Doña Candida ...

VI

But before proceeding, I want to remove this relationship the
embarrassment of my personality, which will achieve in a few words
explaining the purpose of my visit to Mr. de Bringas.

I had finished a lot of firewood and other herbs in Riofrio, and as occurred in serious informalities
award, I had some bickering with administradorcillo of the Royal House, where I felt the threat of
a lawsuit. He was beginning to feel the heavy strokes of solicitor when I decided to kill the
issue at source. D. Manuel Pez, the arranger of all things, the recommender everlasting man of
frills and little notes, get me out brindose step. I owed a few favors, but he owed me for
me were of greater importance and amount. But I want to level my thanks to yours, take it in person
to see first officer for Heritage and the recommendation was more expressive and effective.
Everything went according to the wishes of both. So diligent was helpful and good D. Francisco,
that two days have seen him, my issue was resolved. Two geldings and Bayonne dozen bottles
of wine of my own I gave on October 4, her birthday, and even this accuracy did not seem proportionate
to the service I had done.

Now press on with Doña Candida. Oh, what a woman!, Why his lip service! It was common hear this
phrase: "I go, I go, to come to me my manager, I do not want him
wait.

Is busy man. " Or this: "Go now somewhat behind the collection of my vacation homes. " Maximo
Manso, when he starts to tell about her, starts and not concludes. In 1868 this lady still retained
much of its old self and greatness of social rule within five years of O'Donnell. At that
time he ate hurriedly debris flow that gathereth her husband, and there was no day that no
one come out of the house jewelry, a box, a cabinet with a mission to bring money to meet the
needs domestic. Conflicts with her landlord, who had six months of rent, I would take if I had space
for it. The reigns of these apurillos saved by paying the arrears of home and offering a room
at the top of the Palace, which the unhappy not hesitate to accept ... "I've been in this
hole to please His Majesty, and be near her, while I arranged the parts of the terrace ... Oh,
what a postmodern architect! ... We'll warm ...». ears Thus spoke constantly, and spent many
months without the illustrious widow left his temporary hut. When Fish and I met, and we were honored
guide us into the abode of Bringas, they had more than a year of neglect and decay the famous
Rafael tables, the table of Tristan and a thousand other treasures that miracle of God were
not in museums.

Candida was one of the most constant visits Bringas. Rosalie felt friendly toward her affection
and always listened with submission, conceptualized as leading authority on social matters and in
all manner of finery.

In the eyes of Madame Thiers, the last brilliant Candida had left, the weather cleared, flashes of
prestige and nobility about the Roman bust stiff and packaging of the illustrious widow. This
aura fascinated Rosalia, who exaggerating their respect for fallen majesties, appeared to
take seriously what my manager, my home ... Candida was expressed on all occasions with ease
and security and upside down across the world that gave rise to replication. He lived in the East
Wing, the humble neighborhood of what we have agreed to call the city, but no other resident of this made
more visits and spent more time away from home. All day was spent in house to house, calling
for different doors, visiting, chatting, visiting all parts the colossus from the kitchen
to the coops, and at night, without leaving the street, came to a temporary hut so rendered as
if he had run half of Madrid. Had no family a niece named Irene, about nine or ten years, orphan
of a brother Garcia Grande that had been equerry to SM This was the inseparable friend of the
Bringas girl, and in the afternoons saw, hand wrist and snack in the mouth, playing the terrace
or in the lightest of those Luengas covered streets.

The person over hint of how many lived there, and that the concept of ranked Rosalia immediately
below that of the royal family, was the General lived Minio, Waitress more His Majesty's person
very distinguished and unblemished by any side that look at her.

In the city called him all the loving and popular name of Dona Tula, but never Rosalia I got
out the title, and everything was "Countess this, Countess of otherness and beyond." This kind
and noble lady was the sister of the Countess de Telleria and Alejandro Sanchez Botin, who
has been deputy and has appeared many times already in half a dozen parties. The Sanchez Botin
are good family, I think a solar lineage Bierzo, and are related, but remote Aransis's family. On
the same day they married two sisters, the Marquis Milagros Telleria, and Gertrude, who was the
oldest, with Colonel Mini, which quickly rose in general, winning battles in the ante-palatal
courtesans. There was no birthday of kings or princes that he did not catch a cross, or degree.
When he could not give anything higher in order of militia, two gimped, I graced him with the title
of Count Santa Barbara (from a farm that was in Navarra), having a name that whiff powder,
tallied well with his job, although it was said of him that he had never smelled more than we spend
to save. The reputation for bravery that had enjoyed was based on very rough. In the disorder
of our ideas can easily become heroes that can hardly write his name. The truth is that D. Peter
Minio, Marquis of Santa Barbara, was impressive person at a standstill, or by reviewing inspection
in the barracks, or military giving screams played by the various Directorates. Except for
some minor skirmishes that took part during the first war, civil, military history of our country
never told "This mouth is mine." But it will pass to posterity by the famous sayings of the sword
of Demosthenes Pentecost fabric and soul of Garibaldi, for that to go to Havana, stopping in
the Philippines with other stuff that collected by their subordinates, are a delicious patchwork
of nonsense. The Queen knew them fluently and had a lot of salt. But not to stir the ashes
of this void, whom the Countess said, in the most hidden folds of trust, I was awarded a beast,
and let's deal with his widow.

VII

It was all so different from the Marquise de Telleria seemed not daughters of the same mother. Nor did
he like, or the condition or the figure, with his famous brother
Alexander Sanchez Botin, a man of great means.

The few items that appear adorned they were complemented by another
form of human distinction, disgrace, privilege beings to come to perfection.

The two children who inherited the name, rudeness and the General solecisms were two good jewelry.
What happened to them that mother martyr Cavalry to pursue a career is not for cash. Were five
or six years of cruel fighting desaplicación with barbarism and the boys, a strenuous boxing
with teachers; and thanks to the name you had and I wrote little notes for each course the Queen,
left forward. And were officers and were in place, when a new series of bitter disappointments
the existence of Dona Tula. Months did not pass without one of his buds do a lot. Issues, challenges,
drunkenness, summary, gambling dens, trapping, were the history of all days, and Mom had to
remedy this with the recommendations and disbursements. Came to feel so tired, that when the
eldest, also named Peter Minio, we expressed the desire to go to Cuba, had no strength to oppose
her. The other wanted to marry woman with a bad record. New battle of the mother, who used to
avoid, how resources will allow knowledge of the world and its high position. This lady said a phrase
that stuck in the minds of all who heard it, absurd and painful cry selfishness against motherhood,
and if not a paradox, it would be blasphemy against Nature and the human species. They spoke
of children and mothers who wanted them, as well as that were in excessive number. "Ah, children!
- Dona Tula said with sad accent -. They are a nine-month illness and convalescence life. "

If the children of that lady was stupid, stunted and ugly as hell, however the sister Milagros
had given the world four angels from their tender age marked with the seal of beauty, grace
and discretion. That Leopoldito so mischievous monkey that Gustavito as early as sabidillo and sitting,
that Luisito so mystical, it seemed an apprentice saint, and especially that Mary, with green
eyes and Hellenic profile, extracted from Venus the ruins of Greece, sovereign, living sculpture,
what envanecerían mother? Doña Tula worshiped his nephews.

Were for her children that had not caused any pain to the children of another yours for the
inconvenience and thank you. To Mary, who then turned fifteen, the passionately adored grandmother,
mother or twice, and was somewhat spoiled and mimosa. The beautiful girl was Sunday and Thursday
to spend with Dona Tula all day, also used go on Tuesdays and Fridays, and sometimes on Mondays
and Saturdays. The holidays there reuníanse the overall number of girlfriends, including girls
from D. Buenaventura de Lantigua, and These premium, daughter of the famous jurist D. Juan de
Lantigua, which, if I am wrong Gloria called.

Mary!, It seemed that terrace! Nymphs had higher suit very soon would fall to the ground, and
other clothing under two weeks before had been high. Which had just received the investiture
of women were walking in groups, arm in arm doing trials of formality and quiet and discreet
conversation. Smaller ran, teaching halfway up the leg, and it is safe to say that Isabelita
Bringas and niece Dona Candida were the most rattled. When getting those galleries slip Dare to sneak
a boyfriend bittersweet pollanco a suitor, the stick, tie color,
fungus clear, and perhaps tip cigarette in amber ... Oh my God, who
could count the laughs, the hideouts, the sosadas, play innocent,
delightful nonsense Fresh those souls who had just opened their petals
to the sun of life?

The brief terms that light was crossed on the one hand, the most insipid of improved social language
and secondly the naive rantings of primitive societies. In all these cases is repeated the beginning
of the world incessantly, that is, the itching of Creation, wanting.

The playful band of half-formed women invaded the home of Bringas. Rosalia, joyful be treated
with Dona Tula, with Telleria, with Lantiguas, recibíalas with arms open, and regaled with cakes,
which had previously brought the pastry palace. "Play, tangled, shouting and confusion that
I do not bother" - playfully told Bringas from the window opening, which was submerged in the
deep immensity of their hair. Y they were not made to pray, opened the piano, one of them banging
a polka or waltz, and other, hugging each other in pairs, dance, tossing happy, laughing, crying and
kissing.

"Dance, run, the house is yours, dear girls" - he said without looking
away Thiers of the atoms that stuck to the glass, and they took it
as the literally running Gasparini dancing and jumps to Saleta went
into the Carrion and Columns.

Well I say ... when I was by shuffling Isabelita his wrists, was the beginning and no end. Precisely
Tallud the most were those that were entertained with more rage in this hilarious mock domestic
life, dressing and undressing and tow sissies china, clothing babies with glass eyes and moving the
stuff of tin kitchen cabinet or a carton. What seized the attention of all, reaching up to produce
rivalry, it was a huge doll that D. Agustin Caballero Isabelita had sent from Bordeaux, which
was a good piece, moving his eyes, he said had mom and dad and joints to be placed in all positions.