 Through the school teacher, who had brought and with whom had spoken, I knew
as soon as the school teacher knew.

Don Pascual, believing doing good to his friends, had revealed to Don Andrés jealousy and Don
Paco despair, because of his escape, Don Paco what had happened in two days country, love
of Juanita, so in love with him as he with her, and sentimentality of Antonuelo for Juanita
and his craving to save the eight thousand reais finding to cover
the opening of Murcia shopkeeper.

So far Mr. Spencer knew, and so far knew Don Andrés, never knowing what the note Juanita or visit
Don Paco, who were later events that Mr. Spencer did not. Don Andrés, from experience, was not
inclined to believe in the virtue of women. I had no reason to make an honorable exception Juanita.
On the contrary, judged brash, provocative and raised in total freedom
for ordinary mother and ignorant lower class of society, ancient or
so repentant sinner.

As a man of high position who did not come from ancestry, his father and he had raised to know
and efforts on the mob belonged to Don Andrés, could not help it, and rather because in spite of his
understanding, had a worse opinion of the little people that those who from time immemorial
or after a long series of illustrious ancestors excel among the vulgar. They tend to attribute
these superior capabilities and compliance with them gives a blissful circumstances: to be
born where they were born, to a social and legal fiction that in the depths of his soul can not boast.
Hence they are modest in the background and that naturally consider them less than to the least
and wretched human creature. By contrast, Sir Andrew, as few others do not by themselves soar, felt
very superior to those neighbors around him. And he was also smart teller of asserting itself,
and was, though hardly dared to confess, with no fewer defects or services, could not confer
or grant of many more to many people watching around him, dominated
and humiliated.

So biased and using data that already had, drew Don Andres in his mind the character Juanita and
composed in their own way the story of the girl.

To explain the determination that she was in saving the blacksmith's
son, he certainly very prematurely had been her friend. And in the
love of Don Paco Juanita saw nothing but the plan to marry the most
important man after he was in the villa.

Both plans extremely repugnant
to the chief