 Confirming this rumor that never left the house and its failed
to close friends when they went to visit him.

In such circumstances, either by a burst of impetuous temperament or because they lacked among
his close friends who advise him, Clementina was resolved to deal a decisive blow to to resolve the
dispute once and all the problems attached to it. "My father is kidnapped
- he said -.

I go there and throw that woman out of home. "Osorio tried to dissuade her, but to no avail.

One
morning it was move your car to the palace of Requena. Awe from the doorman to open the gate
and meet Miss Clementina, and joy also visible. For, although was not as smooth as the former
florist or so lavish, the sense of justice forced Duke's servants to despise it and respect it.
The proud lady contented to say, without looking at him, "Hey, Rafael,"
and hurried to the stairs.

How's Dad? - Asked the servant found in the hall.

Was so stunned that he could not respond immediately.

- Come on, man! - Repeated impatiently -. What about Dad? Are you in the office or in their Breakfast?

-
Dispense VE ... Mr. Duke is good .... I think that is still in his cabinet ....

At that moment a maid, who since the end of the corridor he saw and
heard their questions, ran all embarrassed to tell the lady.

Clemence also came up with the fast foot ladder the main floor. Before reaching the door of
the cabinet of his father, Amparo was filed before her, pale, staring,
eyes aggressive.

- Where are you going? - His voice slightly hoarse
with emotion.

- Who are you? - Said the woman lifted her head and
looking at her sovereign contempt top to bottom.

- I am the lady
of the house - said the Malaga getting even paler.

- You mean the
kidnapper.

I have no news that there is no lady here.

- Ah! You come to insult me ??to my own house - said the former florist putting in jars as in
the square.

- No, I come to throw you of it before the police arrive to do so.

- Tute I miss you or me! - Amparo snatched cried with rage, ready to throw on his proud enemy.

- Again I come to you out of this house and the post to usurp - said it calmly threatening, challenging
to the eye.

The Amparo made a motion to throw over it, but stopping suddenly cried
out unrhythmicity voices:

- Pepe, Gregory, Anselm!

Come on, come all. Pepe, Gregory! Throw me this aunt house, which is insulting me!

The cries came some servants, who stopped confused, stunned, staring this strange scene. Also
opened the cabinet door and appeared in her figure Duke's coat and
hat.

Soon he had aged in a surprising way. Had dull eyes, the color down the slopes and flabby cheeks.

-
What is that?

What happens here - asked awkward language. And to see her daughter took a step back and his
whole body shivered.

- This woman, who after asking declare you come to insult me ??crazy
- shouted Amparo Rabanera shrill angry voice.

- Dad, do not pay attention
- said he was going Clementina.

But the Duke stepped back, and while extending his hands convulsively, he exclaimed:

- Out! Out! Stay away!

- Look, Dad!

- Stay away, ungrateful, wicked! - Repeated the Duke, trembling voice and melodramatic.

- Out of here, without shame. Do you have the courage to happen after what he has done with his
father? - Malaga screamed encouraged by the attitude of old.

Clementina was frozen, pale, looking at her eyes where terror was painted more than anger.
There was a moment when he almost lost consciousness when it all
began to spin around.

But his pride made a supreme effort and remained stuck the ground, motionless as a plaster, and
so white. Then he turned slowly on his heels for fear of falling and took a few steps toward
the stairs, which began to walk down hesitantly. His father, excited by the shouts of Amparo,
walked to the railing and kept repeating, increasingly angry, extending his hand trembling as
a theatrical beard:

- Out! Outside of my house!

Meanwhile, his beloved spewed a string of injuries accompanied by movements of the hips, sarcastic
laughter and interjection of the repertoire as it is old.

When he got to set foot in the garden, Clementina's cheeks began to take fire. He leaned a
moment on a column of lanterns, and then was given a run as crazy to your car. Mounted it in one
leap and fell into a nervous breakdown. The removed in very bad condition and went to her room
between two maids. When Osorio presented no could learn more than loose and incoherent words of
what had happened. Eight or ten days was bedridden. At last she left such a desire for revenge,
which some thought it was crazy.

The lawsuit, with the habit of revenge she breathed on him, kindled a mighty way. Madrid became a public
event. About the duke was the insanity views found of most illustrious doctors, Spanish and
foreign. The one you put an idiot, degenerated and brutalized that he had not where to get it.
Others declared that his intelligence shone ever more clear, it was a marvel of insight and good
sense. But all agreed to require, for their opinions, outrageous fees. The press spoke in favor
of either party. Clementina subsidized newspapers.

The Amparo (because Duke, in fact, was no longer in a state to address the issue) had purchased others.
And from the columns of them said more or less veiled, thousand insolence; were removed to allegorical
stories surfaced in many scandalous stories.

In this war the daughter had the worst part: I could not be as liberal as the mistress. Amparo
Bank distributed the tickets hand over fist. Instead, he helped creditors Clementina her husband,
her friends Pepa Frias, who kept a time to come and go visiting the doctors, judges, journalists,
the Countess of Cotorraso, the Marquise de Alcudia, Calderón his brother, his friends and Jiménez
Patiño Arbós general, and most of all, as who else was required, her lover Escosura. This,
for the high office he held, exercised considerable influence on
the course of litigation.

What excitement! How busy and miserable life! Clementina was not eating, not sleeping, always
at conferences with the lawyer, the prosecutor, always writing letters. Even in their gatherings
or meals could not speak about something else. So that some, indifferent, murmured and were deserting
from home. But others managed to communicate his fire: passionate and his partisans were brought
and had stories and gave advice and burst into shouts of indignation every time heard that
name anywhere in the Amparo.

Although Clementina, in general, was not sympathetic the society of Madrid for his haughty character,
and the order represented the right and moral, his cause was popular. Helped make it the stupidity
of his enemy, which presented everywhere trying to dazzle with his estate, taking his hand that
old imbecile and degraded.

Because the Duke of Requena crumbling before our eyes.

After a period of excitement and violence in that looked like a madman, came the flattening
of the nerves. Slowly approached to complete idiocy. He lost his quickness of mind and to the right
understand the business. Remained in the hands of Llera. This was not bad, but it's Amparo be swallowed
them with authority, because he did nothing but nonsense. There was, however, cunning enough to
hide the madness of his beloved. The days when he looked overexcited or inconsistent in his
words teníale locked. Just when I was more calm and rational ventured out with him in the car
and trying not to speak with anyone.

But in the end such precautions were unnecessary. Salabert ran away from home in different public
occasions and gave signs of his alienation. Once he was found at four of the Carabanchel morning
near. Again entered into a jewelry store, and after adjusting some jewelry subtracted others
believe that did not see him. The jeweler said it perfectly, but did not tell because he knew
nothing. What he did was send the bill of jewelry stolen from the Amparo. This was quick to
pay and came in person to beg him not to disclose the fact.

He soon persuaded the public that, despite the views of doctors found,
Duke's insanity was obvious.

He began to whisper that the court's ruling so declare. Two days before it was published, the
Amparo left the palace after it Requena as a sack. It took many valuables. His estate had risen
to a portion of millions. In anticipation of what might happen had taken the Bank of Spain and
was in foreign securities. A few days later he went to France. Some months later Madrid circulated
the news that she married the Marquis de Dávalos.

The same afternoon of the day fled for protection (because flight can be called) of the house of
Requena, Clementina and her husband came and took possession of it. He found his father in
a sad state, complete idiot. He spoke as if he had seen the day before and had not passed nothing,
I asked with great interest by the Amparo and even sometimes confused with it. The heart of
the daughter, it must be confessed, did not suffer much. That unfortunately does not entirely extinguished
that aroused resentment in his heart the memory of the days amarguísimos
that just happened.

His revenge was not happy because I saw the Amparo rich and happy. I wanted at all costs to criminal
prosecution, while her husband met with fortune colossal fell into his hands, did not care
less or more of such a thing.

The Duke of Requena, the famous banker who was attentive and admired for twenty years Spanish
and foreign merchants, the man who had given so much to say to the public and the press, soon
to be passed in the palace of Osorio a useless and worthless junk.

Not to give than to murmur, or more sure of himself, or perhaps by a vague fear that could be cured,
spouses Osorio was sent to an asylum: tuviéronle saved at home. Salabert had become a child. He
was not worried as anything other than the food. He spoke little. Spend hours rubbing her
nails or a hand with the other, leaving escape from time to time strange cries, inarticulate.
I had about a servant who, when showed disobedient and got mad, he was punished. But who had
more respect, and even real fear is true, was his daughter. Clementina was enough for him and he
looked grim Dry address a rebuke to subdue the madman suddenly. In contrast, there was If any of
his son.

When the servant who looked after him, seeing him calm was to recreate a little with his companions,
the fool I used to wander the palace's rooms looking with attention
to mirrors.

His main hobby was to collect bits of bread and pile was in a corner of his room until there
were rotting. When the pile was too big the servants came to collect them in baskets and thrown
to the garbage truck. Entering his room and miss him raged. Guardian
needed to use any means violent to get back to the peace.

One afternoon, shortly after lunch the gentlemen (the crazy lunch
in her room), were meeting three or four servants in the large dining
room of the palace cleaning the dishes and placing in the windows.

Were in good humor and frolicked with whipped changing cloths had
in hand, running around the table and dropping loud laughter.

The lady I could hear them because I was up. In this crazy appeared at the door with a tray
in hand, the tray I used to carry the crumbs, as a precious commodity
to your room.

He wore a robe and brought greasy and bareheaded. But this head, despite his white hair, was not
honored. Cheeks pale, earthy, lips bruised and fallen, the expressionless look dull, old age
did not reflect that has its beauty, but the hideous decrepitude of the service provided and the signal
of idiocy, always terrifying.

Stood for a moment to see so many people undecided. Finally he decided to enter, was right the
drawers of the dressers and began eagerly to register removing all crusts had and putting them
on his tray. The servants watched him smiling with a quizzical look.

- Look, look - "one -.

When invited us to gazpacho, lipendi uncle?

The old man ignored: continued painstaking in their work.

- Gazpacho, no - said another -.

I'd better invite us to a hundred-peseta note.

- You do not mind conv. A Anselmo, yes - "said the duke stammered and looking very angry.

- Takes! I know why ConVidas Anselmo, because it goes with the package. Worry, that if and why
they invited me.

The others laughed. The youngest of them, a boy of sixteen years, seeing him with a tray filled and ready
to go, went back, and was giving him a slap jump all the crumbs that fell scattered on the floor.
The Duke was terribly angry, and shouting in anger, and pouring looks cornered beast, threw
himself down and put to pick up the crumbs again, while the servants celebrated with gaiety grace
his companion. When he had them all in the tray and ran out the door to escape their jokes,
the same predator went after him and threw it again. The fury of the mad was not limits. Tumultuous,
gnashing his teeth, his eyes shining, he threw himself on the seducer; but the others held
him. The poor man then began to throw insane roar that had nothing humans.

At that moment he heard the voice in the running sore of Clementina.

- What is that? What are you doing Dad?

The servants released the mad and were disappearing from the dining room to run.

XVI

# Love is extinguished. #

The Loves Raymond were imprisoned by a thread. In recent times, Clementina, entirely seized
by the desire for victory and revenge, he hardly heeded. Could be seen often, because the young
did not stop frequenting the house, but their dating was becoming increasingly rare. When he
complained that his abandonment timidly, he apologized to the lady's
jealousy Escosura.

As much as was I could not convince him that their old were torn relations, was watching furtively,
watched his steps, when you least expect would find out the truth.

"You see, the trick would be very ugly, would be right to get angry."

Poor Raymond was so lost that he accepted as good or seemed to accept these reasons. In the
midst of abject living happily forging the illusion that he preferred his idol, I loved him in the
depths of the soul, which only had relations with the minister for the interest litigation. It helped
keep him in it that occasionally Clementina, by plucking perhaps momentarily to their desires and
anger, he wrote a little note saying, "Today at four ", or" Go in the afternoon at the Casa
de Campo ". And in these interviews, Rush sudden whim and joyful remembering the first stages of
love, tender and showed affectionate, he swore eternal fidelity. Oh, God! What infinite happiness
which felt heavenly the young entomologist heard such oaths of those beloved lips!

But all happiness is short in this world. His, brief. The day after that rapture of love, its
owner was cold as marble, dismissive, and even worse, reserved in long talks with Escosura
back corner of the room. Innocently thought that the end of the litigation would change his
luck, Clementina, and the minister need not, would again be entirely his own, without that odious deal
that he was saddened even more that he was ashamed.

Their hopes vanished like smoke. The lawsuit was finished as happier for her, and yet, far
from dismissing her official lover, every day is showing more respectful
to him and in love.

One morning, two months after the dispute failed, received a little note that said: "I'm going
this afternoon at two." He jumped up the heart.

More than two weeks ago that his beloved entresuelito not appear
by the Caballero de Gracia.

At one I was waiting for her. Y discerned in the distance, ran to open it with the same emotion as
if it were a queen and with much more tenderness.

She presented herself acknowledged, affectionate, welcomed their living and passionate caresses.

After
an hour, being the two sat on the small couch where so many conversations
love had gone, she gave him a long look compassionate and said with
a sad smile:

- Guess what, world?

... Today is the last day and we are alone together.

The young man looked at her with amazement, not understanding or not
wanting to understand.

- Yes, ... I can not continue to maintain
these relationships secret with you .... Escosura and been warned
and has rightly offended a lot .... I also think having two lovers
ugly .... That's for Lola Madariaga.

So far I've gone through it because I understand that you loved me and that I love very much .... I also
have always shown true love. You can not complain.

If I wanted a man of heart is to you .... The proof of this is what
they have lasted our relationships .... But nothing is eternal in
the world .... Since our loves are as average time for waste (because
love is exclusive and does not support deals), the best is that they
break completely ... Just as well I'm getting old, World .... You
are a boy.

If I did not give voice apart, sooner or later would give you. This is the life .... Today,
I still find beautiful, are the latest flare-ups.

I need to say goodbye to the we have done many crazy things .... But always remember with pleasure,
I swear .... You reprensentarás in my life, perhaps the happiest
time ... Let us from now on good friends.

Would have an immense pleasure to be helpful in debieses me a favor of importance and I owe
you many moments of joy ...

The boy heard all these outrages motionless, stunned.

A dense covering his pallor was factions.

- But you talk so? - Concluded by asking in a trembling voice.

- Yes, dear, yes, I speak of really - said the lady with the same sad smile and protective.

-
That can not be! ... Can not be - he uttered it with energy, rising from his seat and looking
angry and scared at the same time.

That look was enough to stir the pride of Clementina.

- Go if you can be - at twang said it was ironic that at that time
of cruelty fierce.

Froze. He stood a moment looking at her with an indefinable expression
of anguish and terror was finally dropped at his feet with folded
hands, exclaiming:

- Oh, my God, do not kill me! Do not kill me!

Clementina's
face and voice softened as well.

- Come on, do not be a child, World
.... Arise .... It had to happen .... You will find women worth much
more than me ....

But the young man had hugged her knees tightly
and kissed them with transport frantic and the same foot, his body
shaken by sobs.

- This is horrible! Is horrible! - Repeat -. What
made you so you kill me?

We, World, going .... Top .... Let's formal
- she said softly, caressing hair -. Do not you realize it's ridiculous?

-
What I care about the ridiculous - replied the miserable, sobbing,
her face stuck the silk of her dress -. For you I would look ridiculous
in front of the world.

Clementina made efforts to calm him down,
but no pity. There is no beast more cruel than a jaded woman. It let
off steam for a while, and when I saw more sedate, rose from the couch.

-
I really appreciate that sentiment, World .... I've had to struggle
a lot time with my heart to leave you solved ....

- Lie! - Said he
still kneeling, with his elbows on the couch -. If you had wanted
would not be so cruel, so vile!

The lady remained silent for a moment
looking at him in the back with burning eyes. Finally, overcoming
compassion, said:

- I forgive such rudeness by the state of exaltation
in which you stand. As much as I Injuries will never get to stop always
remember you fondly .... Someday when you and me 've completely forgotten,
yet your picture and the happy times we spent together be engraved
in my heart .... But now it should be formalized - added a change
of tone -. Conclude in a dignified way, Ray .... I'll do the favor
of taking a car, go to your house and bring all that I have addressed
letters to burn. I do not keep any yours. You know that the break
in the receipt.

Raymond did not budge. After waiting a few moments,
Clementina approached him from behind bowed silently and put both
hands on the cheeks, telling her sweet accent:

- Dumber