 

Someone moved inside the shack, something black appeared indecisive at your door. Was out the
enemy attention! ... He grabbed his gun to fire only displays the end of the enemy weapon,
but remained motionless and confused to see that it was a black skirt topped for bare feet in
old sandals, and a bust this miserable, hunched and bony, a copper head and wrinkled, with
only one eye, and thin gray hair left shine among their wicks varnish baldness.

Febrer recognized the woman. It was the aunt of a blacksmith, one-eyed that he had spoken the Chaplain,
Ferrer the only companion in solitude bravia. The old woman stood in the shed with arms akimbo,
throwing out the flabby belly bulging through the petticoats, setting his only pupil, inflamed
by anger at the intruder who came to lead a man well within his work. Jaime looked at the fierce
aggressiveness of women, safe instilling respect sex, is more bold and impetuous man. Muttered threats
and insults that the man could not hear, angry that someone will come against his nephew, beloved
puppy which had its sterility all the ardor of a failed mother.

Jaime suddenly realized what their actions abhorrent. A man like him to come to cause in broad daylight
by side in your own home! The old woman had reason to insult him. The bully was not the Ferrer:
he was, lord of the tower, a descendant of so many illustrious men and proud origin.

Shame made him shy, plunging in awkward confusion. I did not know how or where to go escape.
At last he threw his gun over his shoulder, and with eyes aloft, as if pursuing a bird jumping
from branch to branch, set off through the trees and undergrowth, bypassing back to the forge.

Now
walked downhill into the valley, running from this mountain that
had dragged a momentum killer, ashamed of his previous wishes.

He returned to find men were coal black.

- Bonas tenguin afternoon!

Replied to his greeting, but her extraordinary eyes on his face blackened white Febrer thought he
noticed something of mockery hostile, repulsive strangeness, as if he were of another breed,
as if he had committed an unprecedented act that always stood out
for community human on the island.

The pines and junipers were back on the slopes of Mt. He now walked between terraces plowed land. In
some areas saw peasants working, on a bank found several atlotas
who collected herbs, huddling on the floor, in a way she met three
old marching slowly beside their donkeys.

Febrer, with the humility of feel sorry for a bad action, greeted
everyone sweetly.

- Bonas tenguin afternoon!

The peasants responded with a growl, the girls face with a twisted
no sign of disappointment to him, the three old answered the greeting
sadly, looking tellers with small eyes, as if they found something
special in him.

Under a fig tree, twisted branches black hood, he saw some peasants
busy listening someone who was at the center of the circle