 What would I do at night? By day, at least wherever they
become the eyes, saw something that he talked about it, and saw her as had seen many times,
washed by the last rays of the sun, still looking the dumb show of the fantastic, and held
his breath and step, as before in presence of the living body, afraid to see it fade, to lose
it. And was gone, had vanished, he had lost! How often had that feeling down the heart of terror!
Was this a being made for life on earth? Many times he had heard, talking about the future, what I
should do that day: "Yes I will be still in the world !...» And candle plant stopped without
seeing anything else, his eyes filled with tears and her pain was so Acute and ineffable,
which almost became a mortal pleasure. The cry had been pleasure of that love, joy, hope, compassion,
fear, pain, everything did mourn.

The impression I felt on seeing her for the first time had been so
strong, that soon there had failed to realize all its beauty.

"It consisted of perhaps the most seductive in grace languid, almost hesitant to his tall,
thin, or the purity of funny lines face, forehead smooth as if it were the work of a sculptor, crowned
with abundant hair blacks who descended into two bands by the temples and gave it a resemblance
to the Virgin pain or tenderness of the look, the deep expression of a soul anxious?

A more attentive contemplation had made him understand after all these
details together formed the event of his person, but then I also saw
that this beauty is not was durable.

Some days, there were hours in which the thinness of the cheeks seemed too big: all lines of
the face is altered, as close to disfigured complexion, unenlightened at the time by the inner
flame, it became livid, the eyes appeared veiled and almost blind. But these sudden shutdown did
not seem more than statements of beauty too big and almost out of humanity, had made him tremble
in fear of him, because he revealed the threat hanging over the life of his beloved. The feeling
of admiration that be lovely everywhere in the wake of its best moments, was becoming then
in caring compassion and heart to garnish the candle plant, for that fleeting and fragile
beauty, was much stronger than it would have taken his admiration for other pride and triumphant
beauty.

He still remembered the words he had heard at night and far away, when one of those moments quiet
too rare, had yielded to the insistence of a cheerful crowd, and
had to play the piano.

An intoxicating music sound out of the instrument, and the mysterious Under the tune was for the
young soul of an explanation of why the superhuman sudden animation beauty that shone in his
face. And at such maximum degree great, he felt humiliated and almost offended, saying that the greater
was the superiority That woman, the more difficult it would be closer to her and the more insignificant
or unworthy should be judged. But when his heart was more oppressed by the consciousness of
the distance that separated them, suddenly saw that without the hands of the pianist interrupted the
implementation of Largo by Bach, who played the purple of her cheeks turned pale, wonderful purity
of the lines of his face was altered, was dissolved.