 I have a thousand things to tell you many sad
news from yesterday to today! It is useless to present to Mom. It would be very badly received.
But ... (Ring the ten on the clock on the mantelpiece). Ten. I'll talk. Will cold narcissist? What a
voice so hoarse it today! Sares ... All right. Egeneto.

But what a voice so hoarse!

- I do you mean, narcissistic, what those words mean convoluted? ...

Lying seems to be as concise language and in just four words spout
so things.

So the words are Greek and means "You are an angel came down from heaven to earth, took a gentle
body and you became Manolita. "

I suspect you are joking. How can they say so much just four words ...?

What is paraphrase, not translation? Then you will understand. But enough of paraphrase. I'm
not for them or for me to throw compliments.

I'm desperate.

So desperate I am, I am inclined to believe that I have not had to pretend disease, but actually
I'm sick. The doctor has believed and has left a prescription long, Dona Rita have read and
comply. The doctor will be nonsense ...

Oh, my God! What fun is this heavy? How narcissistic do not you answer? He answers the doctor,
who is with him, and says that to see that he's not so simple, I read your recipe, which after
well studied, Dona Rita has been under the base of that chimney clock. Let's see. (Manolita
seeks finds and reads the recipe.)

"Recipes: A nine o'clock, consommé
with fresh eggs, filet mignon, chaud froid of partridges, Marques
de Riscal wine, Vienna rolls, a thick custard that like both the little
patient, candy, coffee and half a glass of chartreuse to tone the
stomach.

Desktop a bit of chitchat with narcissistic by phone or closer. "

Have you ever seen more shameless? This is fun for me to cap removed. In sin I penance. The
general called the Greeks to the swindlers.

I did very poorly in confide in a Greek unknown. Only logical that this infamous trickery and
mockery. (Manolita go the phone, full of anger.)

Narcissistic, what
are you doing to me is an evil. I ran out of love. Hate to you.

The
circumstances are, however, very hard and rough and I have to check
my anger and even talk to you about important issues.

Mom says that
the Viscountess and many women are complicit and instigators of love
she did not dream