 The period that is granted direct trains to the passengers
  to eat, is very short. From Bordeaux to Paris, which is a hundred
  leagues away from Castilian, we just stopped to eat in two seasons,
  allowing only fifteen minutes at half past one another: all
  is needed to cross, as crosses, so long distance in the very short
  term twelve hours.
  

  Without knowing why, since the via is completely finished, failure
  is common in the railway from Bordeaux to Paris.

  
  Pierce the week before I was a train wreck, if While thankfully
  no mishaps occurred. This scene, occurred several times and
  in spite of having begun to exploit recently, was repeated the day
  that I crossed. It was now eight o'clock at night, and after
  having had a very happy trip, we were at a short distance
  from Paris when suddenly notice that the train had stopped.
  After waiting for fifteen minutes without asking the cause, because
  we assumed that instantly begin again their up, and seeing that
  we continued in the same place, we decided to ask the reason.
  The train that had preceded Hallab stopped after three hours because
  the machine had derailed. The carriages were in the middle of
  the track and Over our impossible. Three hours, more or less suffer
  the unexpected arrest the forehand us originated: There was no
  disgrace to be regretted happily. A After clearing the way,
  went to our machine and half past the night we entered the city
  called Paris.
  

  From Bordeaux to the French capital is the traveler a superb
  countryside, cultivated everywhere, large towns lush vegetation,
  and large populations of Libourne, Angouleme, Poitiers, Tours
  and Orléans.

  
  I have already signed up more than once and I still have occasion
  to repeat: the French have crossed throughout its length, from
  the border from Spain to Switzerland, crossing a distance three
  hundred leagues. Everywhere, not excluding a span of land, everything
  is grown, not telegraph wires never lose sight of: these two
  considerations speak very high, are what caught my attention
  relentlessly: the I would find in Spain.

  
  
  The true civilization is at work, which generates good citizens,
  ennobles the soul, enhances the public wealth and idleness
  kills.

  Governments have built railroads, and towns that have open sinuses
plow land, deserve a high esteem.

  

  
  Let us go into Paris.
  
  PARIS # #.
  

  Just as in centuries of religious faith pilgrimages hacíanse everywhere
  to go and visit the Holy Places, the tomb James the Apostle,
  or the venerable relics of Rome, currently directs all the curious
  of all nations to Paris, the city of cities.
  
  And indeed worth the art that was born in the East which
  was later for country to Greece and finally took refuge in Rome,
  lives today in Paris. In this powerful bazaar luxury and pomp,
  has in our days the temple. The foreigner arriving
  for the first time to Paris is sure annoyed the first three days
with the tumult of relentless movement and the feverish agitation
of that life. But soon the reaction begins, and the idea that first
present is to continue on its premises all possible time