 The
atlots gathered around the hero. The Smiling Sang spoke, and he listened with protective gravity,
occasionally spitting out of the corners of the mouth, and wondering to himself distance by
sending the stream discharge.

Suddenly, the Chaplain jumped into the middle of the square waving his hat ... "But is that
going to spend the evening listening to the flute without dancing? "group ran and grabbed atlotas
hands to larger pulling. "You !...» That was enough for the invitation.

The was the slap harsher, more affectionate and seemed worthy of appreciation.

The mischievous atlot stood in front of your partner, girl arrogant and ugly, rough hands, oily
hair and black face, which led him in stature almost the entire head. The boy protested, facing
with the musicians. Nothing llarga; wanted to dance the curta.

The "long" and "short" were the two unique dances of the island. Febrer had never managed to
distinguish: a simple variation rate, since the music and dance has always looked the same.

The
girl, with an arm bent at the waist-shaped handle and yet the other along the hollow faldamenta,
began to spin. Should not do more: it was all her dance. Down eyes, pursed mouth, as was de rigueur,
with a look of virtuous disdain, as if dancing against their will, and so spin and spin, drawing
in large developments on the ground eight numbers. The dancer was the man. Reproduced in this
traditional dance, invented certainly by the first inhabitants of the island, rude pirates of
the heroic age, the eternal human history, persecution and hunting of the female. She turned
cold and unfeeling, asexual pride with a rough basis, avoiding jumps and contortions manly presenting
the back with a gesture of contempt, and the strenuous work he was placed ever in mind, in
getting to his step, to meet him and see him admire him. The dancer jumped and jumped without
any rules, no discipline other than the the music, bouncing on the ground with relentless elasticity.
Sometimes he opened arms dominating aggressive gesture, others retreated on the back foot casting
high.

Dance was more than a gymnastic exercise, a delirium of an acrobat, a frantic motion as the
war dances of African tribes. The female did not sweat or blush: continued their turns coldly,
without rushing the passage, while the other, possessed of dizzying speed, panting, his face
flushed, trembling with fatigue withdrawing a few minutes. Each atlota could dance with several men
without any effort, rendering. It was the triumph of feminine passivity, smiling at the arrogant boasting
of the opposite sex, knowing that eventually humiliated him ...

The
output of the first couple seemed to draw others.

At one point, the entire space had to free the musicians was covered with heavy skirts, under
whose rigid and multiple ring moved about the little feet tucked into white or yellow espadrilles
shoes. The wide mouths cimbreábanse to the pants back and forth with the rapid movement of the
jumps or the strong kick that struck the earth raising clouds of dust. Manly arms chose to
blow gallant between atlotas grouped. "You !...» And this monosyllable followed the pull of
conquest, the shoving, equivalent to a momentary Title property all the ends of a predilection
roughly ancestral, inherited from remote gallantry grandparents in the dark period in the
club, the stone and grappling were the first declaration of love.

Some atlots which had been preceded by other more adventurous in choosing
the partners were still around the circle, watching their peers to
happen.

When they saw the crowded and sweaty dancer for the jumps, taking great efforts to move forward,
llegábanse him, pulling his arm to remove him. "Déixamela!" And occupied his post without
explanation, jumping and harassing the female with the push of freshness, though she seemed
unaware of the change of partner, then continued his rounds with downcast eyes and frowned.

Jaime
was first seen in the evolution of dance Margalida, which had hitherto remained hidden from
their partners.

Beautiful "Almond Blossom"! Febrer found it more beautiful when compared with their girlfriends,
brunettes and tanned by the sun and work.

Her white skin, a gentle flower, his eyes wet bright and sweet little animal, her slender body and
to the softness of his hands, separated, as if from a different race from those colleagues blackish,
seductive in their youth, strong and guapote, but seemed in broad strokes.

Contemplating, Jaime thought that the girl, in another setting, could
have been a adorable creature.

He thought I understood something about it. Glimpsed in "Almond Blossom" countless of delicacies,
of which she was unaware. Too bad they were born in this island not to leave her again! ... And
her beauty would be for any of those barbarians admired her with a look of anxiety barking!
Perhaps for Ferrer, who seemed hateful Verro protect everyone with dark eyes! ...

When was married cultivate the land, like the others: the whiteness
of flowers wither, yellowing, his hands would turn black and scaly;
would become like her mother and payesas all old, a female skeleton,
twisted and gnarled, like a log olive ... Febrer saddened by these
thoughts as to a great injustice.

What Where had this sucker out the simple Pep, who was by his side? Why obscure combination of
race had been born in Can Mallorquí Margalida? ... What would wither is florescence mysterious
and perfumed peasant trunk as well as other shoots that grew along rough it? ...

Febrer extraordinary distracted by these thoughts. Continued playing the flute, drum and castañolas,
the dancers leapt, whirled the atlotas, but in the eyes of all eyes shone a smart alarm, an expression
of solidarity defensive. The old ceased their conversation, looking towards the occupied women.
"What is it?

What is it? "The Chaplain running among couples, talking into the ear of the dancers. These
salíanse the circle with his hands in his belt, and disappeared again a few seconds immediately
to take his place, while still turning atlotas.

Pep smiled slightly to guess what was happening, and whispered to the Lord. "Nothing, it all dances.
There was danger, and put atlots security arrangements. "

These "arrangements" were the guns and knives worn by boys as a witness citizenship. For a moment,
Febrer come to light was the most wonderful and huge arms, wonderfully
disguised in those lean and slender bodies.

The old women claimed with his bony hands, eager to share the risk, shining in their eyes the
vehemence of aggressive heroism. Times cursed impiety those of today, which annoys people and attentive
to the old ways! "Here! Here "and holding the deadly gossip, the hidden under the hem of numberless
blades of her skirts and petticoats. Young mothers leaned back in their seats and opened the
angle of the swollen legs, and to offer more cache space warrior. Some other women looked bellicose
resolution. "That should come those poor souls ... It would cease to pieces before leaving your
site. "

Febrer saw something shining on a road leading to the church. Were belts and rifles, and about these
white sunshades of the cocked hats of a couple of the Civil Guard.

The two order soldiers approached slowly, with some dismay, no doubt
convinced have been guessed from afar and come too late.

Jaime was the only one who looked; others pretended not to see them, head down and eyes on a different
direction. The musicians played harder, but the couples went away. The abandoned atlotas the lads
to get confused in the group of women.

- Good evening, gentlemen ...

In this greeting older guard said the silent drum, leaving only dry the flute. This still twang
a few notes, which seemed ironic answer the salutation.

There was a long silence. Some answered with a faint "Tengui!" To greet the couple but everybody
pretended not to see her, and looked elsewhere, as if the guards lacked presence real.

The painful silence seemed to bother the two soldiers.

- Well, you go - continued the oldest -. For us it will not stop the fun.

He gestured to the musicians, and these, unable to disobey the authority
on anything, undertook more live music and devilishly happy than before.

But if you were playing dead! ... All stood still and sulking, thinking how I could end this
unexpected presentation.

The couple, accompanied by the rattle of the drum, the flute's musical
antics and dry and shrill laughter of castanets, began to move between
groups atlots examining them.

- You, beau - with paternal authority
said the oldest of the couple - hands up!

And the designated meekly obeyed without the slightest attempt at resistance, almost proud of
this distinction. He knew his duties. The Ibiza was born to work, live ... and be registered.
Nobles drawbacks of being brave and you have one true fear! ... And every atlot, seeing in
the record a testament to his credit, he raised his arms and moved
his belly, paying paid to the handling of the guards, looking proudly
at the group of the girls.

Febrer realized that the two soldiers pretended not to notice the
presence of Ferrer.

Seemed to recognize, turned their backs. Passed several times with him, recording carefully to those
who were at his side and making visible show of no fixed at verre.

Pep whispered to the Lord in a low voice, a tone of admiration. "Those people of the tricorn
knew more than the devil. Not registering the Verro you inferred an insult. Proved not to have
him fear put him apart from others, escape an operation in which
they passed all people.

"Where were the Verro with other young men, searched them, without ever touching it. Thus, the atlots,
for fear of losing their weapons, ended by avoid dealing with the hero and ran away from him
as an attraction of danger.

He continued to record the music.

The Chaplain was a couple in their evolution, always posed to the
old guard with his hands in his belt, looking steadfastly with expression
between threatening and pleading.

The guard seemed to him, looking for others, but soon returned to trip over the boy who blocked
his path. The man with the cocked hat ended up under the harsh smile mustache and called his comrade.

-
You - said, appointing him to the boy - record this verre. Must be careful.

The Chaplain, forgiving the enemy's mocking tone, stretched all he could to that no one ceases to
learn about its importance.

He had already removed the guard, then make A tickle in the belly, when he still kept his
attitude of man to be feared. After ran towards the group of girls, to brag about the danger he
had just meet. Fortunately, Grandpa's knife was in the house, sheltered by his father in a place
he did not know. "If I get it, take it from me."

The guards soon cansáronse the unsuccessful search.

The guard looked older maliciously, like a dog sniffing towards the group of women. There should
be close the cache. But any move made to dry and blackish midwives of their seats! Clear hostile
eyes spoke of these ladies. Would have to drag him by force, and were ladies.

- Gentlemen, good afternoon!

And he laid the rifle on his shoulder, rejecting the kind request of some young men who had Run
to the tavern to bring a drink. "They are offered without rancor and without fear, at last
were all about and lived in the narrowness of the island. "But the guards insisted on his
refusal. "We are grateful, as prohibits the regulation." And they left, perhaps to ambush at close
range and repeat the registration in the evening when people return
to their hamlets scattered.

Moving away from this danger ceased sounding instruments. Febrer saw that gripped Cantó the drummer,
sitting in the space formerly occupied by the dancers. People were grouped in a semicircle before him.
The respectable matrons advancing their saddles esparto to hear better. Going to sing one of
those romances that he drew from his head-a "Relation" to use the country cut by a tremulous
cry, gurgle of pain that would prolong while the singer was air in
the lungs.

Hit stick the patch slowly to give a grim seriousness of her singing monotonous sleepy and sad.
"I want friends, to sing, if I have a broken heart !...»

And then a shrill chirp, a dying bird endless whine amid the general silence. Everyone looked
to the singer, not seeing him as atlot, lazy and sick, despicable for its irrelevance to the job.
In the rudimentary Magin beat them all a bit confusing urging them to respect the words and moans
of the weak boy. It was something special that seemed to go through rough and flutter over their
primitive souls.

Sang the voice of a woman talking whimpered insensitive to their complaints, and to compare their
white with almond blossom, all turned their eyes to Margalida, who
remained impassive, without blushing virgin, accustomed to these tributes
of crude poetry, which were the prelude any courtship.

Sang was continuing his lamentations, reddening with the effort was painful cackling auction to the
verses.

His narrow chest heaved with the effort, two sickly purple rosettes colored his cheeks; dilatábase
their weak neck, clicking on the highlighted blue veins.

As usual, hid part of his face in a handkerchief he held with the
arm supported in the drum.

Febrer felt sorrow upon hearing the mournful voice.

I thought I was going to tear his chest, blew up his throat, but the listeners, accustomed to singing
barbarian, so choked like dancing, they kept attention on the singer's fatigue or tire of their
endless story.

A group of atlots separating the circle surrounding the poet, seemed deliberate and approached
once where the men were serious. But came in search of the Can Pep Mallorquí to talk to him about
important issues.

Returned back down on his friend sang, a wretch that was good for
nothing but to devote the atlotas trova.

The most daring of the group
is faced with Pep. Festeig wanted to talk with Margalida; remembered
the father of his promise to allow the procession of the girl.

The
peasant group looked closely, as if they had their number.

- How
many are you? ...

Smiled carrying voice. There were many more. Representing
others who had stayed atlots on the floor listening to the song. They
were of different paddocks. Up to San Juan, the opposite end of the
island, young men come to court Margalida.

Pep, despite his false
gesture of intractable father, blush and lips pressed poorly concealed
satisfaction, glancing at the friends sitting next to him. What an
honor for Can Mallorquí! He had never known a courtship like this.
His companions had ever seen their daughters so courted.

- Vintage
Sereu? - Asked