 The oil comes out of your cellar,
no for chime, but by the bushel, the slices of bacon flying out of the pantry, the transpose sausages;
butter evaporates, the hams are dissipated. The entire kindred lights, heated, eat, drink and
even dwells at your expense. If you have houses, one of the kindred dwell and do not get the
pay, if you are grower of wine or spirits, often boots, jars and botijuelas, and will enter
empty and overflowing.

Do not believe, however, that since this business so lucrative, many women are engaged He and cheaper
market competition. Throughout the territory of Cordoba has always lived people are very noble and very
difficult at points of honor. Old Colony as true citizens Romans, not freed, like others, deserved
and earned the title of patrician, when the invasion Mohammed, did not come to populate Berber
rude and commoners, but men of pure light Arabian blood, the most illustrious lineage of Medina and
Mecca, the descendants of the Ansar Tab and muhadjires. And finally, having been my province,
for two centuries, frontier the kingdom of Granada, had to take and had to defend their custody
and places strong, and to retaliate for any attack, riot by entering domains the Alarba, cutting
their crops and doing other mischief thousand insolence and a population tough and courageous
men,

    
    All gentlemen of honor And you really love,

as he sings the old romance.

Since then he has tarnished his well-established reputation Córdoba: and not idle boasting, but with
plenty of reason, bears the motto, regarding the rampant lions of his clean coat "Corduba, militiae
domus, inclyta fonsque Sophiaa." Lucan, Seneca, Averroes, Ambrosio de Morales, Gongora and a thousand
others attest to the latter. Accredited first on innumerable multitude, the staunch and courageous
warriors in every way Córdoba has grown; and to wonder and terror of the enemies of Spain as
the Great Captain; and for perpetual anxiety and dread constant gentle Spanish, such as Tempranillo,
Francisco Esteban El Guapo, Benamejí Chat The Cripple of Encinas-Reales, Navarro's Lucena, and
Caparrota the Doña-Mencia.

It is therefore plain that her husband has been there much, much indulgent parent, and many interested
and easy women. Which is what makes him pay dearly, not because of the rarity, but so lost.
Only by dint of superb gifts and generosity, and dazzling with luxury, it is sometimes forgive
its missteps. Still, she is spurned and do not usually call it by its name, but with an ironic
nickname, for example, Galga, La Joya, the guitar. Perhaps designated by the generic name
of the country is natural, and to designate its origin stranger, and I've known them to Murcia,
a the Manchego and Tarifa.

If any young lady or a young married maiden feels vagaries of being seduced and coax, there is often
a father or a husband who straightens healthy and good rattan cane. Neither should be very safe
and neglected seductive inspire much respect. Not enough sometimes innocent, if a lover gives
misgivings. True friend of mine from school, in the Sacro Monte, was, years ago, to heal the
soul into a place of my province. He was a great theologian, straight and virtuous, but well spoken,
elegant, Slick and pleasant man who was the eighteenth century had figured in a court, as the
most delicious abbe. Well, in the people took it with him, and, as they say, you abroncaron.
The brónquis that gave came to shoot some shots, but only with gunpowder, to scare. He estimated
that powder, if it was ineffective, it could easily happen to the shot, and ran away with music
and theology elsewhere less difficult.

Such extremes are rare, fortunately. Cordoba is the flirtatious but very cautious and stealthy,
no one agrees. Even the most humble condition, used to evict the patient in love, talking about
his honor, as the ladies Calderon. When this is not enough or scream, or excited, or shocked, but
he defends which a Penthesilea; struggle, as the angel wrestled with Jacob in the darkness of
night, and robust, even angelic, often throw the trip up, overthrow, and even give you a soba,
all with mute eloquence and quietly beautiful. And do not miss this class because of poor girls, and even
in some affluent styling is remarkable robustness. They are harder than marble, not only of
heart, not just in the center, but the entire periphery. One day we toured the country with
the most graceful and main girls of the place. One of them, believing the highest seat, sat
hit on a pile of tiles. Were of the massive and best of Lucena. Three saw broken. She said with
a charming modesty and, before the fall, they were.

Not understood, so that, Amenga or deface anything at all slenderness and kindness of my countrywomen.
One thing is the density and firmness, and over the outrageous volume. The girl that a child
works, go hard and go to the fountain in the ejido, returning from there with the jug full,
on her hip, or washed her clothes in the stream, is strong but not fat. The source or the
pillar was the end of my daily walk, and there I I sat on a bench under a leafy eminent black
poplar. Seeing the girls washing, or fill the jars and go with them so graceful, airy and
light, for that slope above, I moved my spirit to the patriarchal times, and I thought I saw
some Biblical scenes such as Rebecca and Eliacer, and, comparing with the wise King of Ithaca, I
tried in the presence of Princess Nausicaa and her companions kind. Nothing crinolines or
recessed into those girls. The poor short dress, especially in summer, hews the body and gracefully
folded, watching and revealing the juveniles, as in the statue huntress Diana.

Unfortunately, the ladies have taken place, as soon as possible, almost
all French fashion, and are losing their style of dress and grooming.

All huge crinolines used total and now use the pseudo-partial crinoline depriving callipygian. When
you least expect leave the blanket and put the hat. All comb, taking figurine modeled after, and often
call this hairstyle cucuné or rolled up to give up the name, a character abroad. Skirts, short
rather than take them, take them long, and are sweeping dust tail of the roads. In short, it's a
shame this abandonment of the suit itself and appropriate.

Despite these costumes, beauty, or at least the grace, the elegance and wit, are items common
in my countrywomen.

They go far in the delicacy, and especially if dancing. The rigodones and the waltz and polka will
acclimatizing, but the fandango not banished yet. Until ladies come out to make a move, if taken
out and force in any country fair, and move and jump with panache and ease, and castanets rattle
briskly. Women There's people that in this dance and play castanets, due to Teletusa held by
Martial, in that epigram which begins:

Eder ad Baetica crusmata Gestus lewd.

    

If a married woman, as exposed, is a model of patience married, the unmarried is almost always
a model girlfriends. Down to the gate on time every night to talk with love, on what is called
the turkey skin. In every street anywhere in Andalucía are, from 10:00 to 13:00, two separate muffled,
and sewn into most bars. Such Once he sighs and exclaims:

- Too bad you are!

And she answers:

- No, you! ...

And breathe another sigh.

So spend hours and hours.

This exercise has such charm to the man above all, not just extend dating more than that of
Jacob and Rachel, which lasted fourteen years, not only losing the charm of peel the kettle.
The poor girls suffer with patience, but languish and become haggard.

Truth is that then when they get married, not, as elsewhere, that
women are still serving, service and dedication.

Although the groom is a journeyman miserable, try to find his girlfriend, no property become
his wife, quit all work, no weed again or pick olives and be at home as queen and mistress.
If you are serving, says goodbye and leaves to serve, and as does not sew or clean, or iron,
or scrub, or wise, but for her husband and their children. The man, except in rare cases, the
worker, or Garbee garners looks and what is necessary to the support of the entire family.

The Cordoba, is in the class it is, is all heart and tenderness but
without sentimentality false and alchemy that has come from extranjis.

No one (shame confess) has painted Cordoba to the people, truly in love and passionate, as the
novelist Mérimée. Her Carmen is the ideal kind of humble and low capacity, even sublime soul.
As says the Greek poet's couplet, which serves as epigraph to the novel, Carmen knows dying
and love; is admirable when it is given out of love and when love
dies, you have two hours divine: a in death, and another in the thalamus.

From

behind comes the garbanzo the peak, as the vulgar say. Since ancient times is the Cordoba mirror,
northern light and love. Her eyes, like those of Laura, inspired and almost Platonic mystical feelings,
and make a Moor, as Ibn Zeidun, write songs finer than of Petrarch, through Walada princess, who
was also a poet.

The loves of two women have had a huge Cordoba beneficent influence in the world: have contributed
almost have been the cause of the most precious glory for Spain, and events as angels, without
whom the current European civilization is not explained. Without Zahira Gusti love, Mudaliar had
not been born, seven infants of Lara would not have had avenger, the flower of Spanish chivalry
had died before opening the cup, perhaps we had not possessed the Cid, because not inspired
by the sword and collect breath Mudarra with her had not died or given to Count Lozano feat so
enduring principle.

If Dona Beatriz Enriquez fell in love with Columbus in Córdoba, comforting
and encouraging, Colon had gone to Spain, had died in an insane hospital,
I had not discovered new orbs, whose existence was discerned and predicted
more than thousand and four hundred years before an inspired Cordoba,
and the discovery of which gave him the passionate spirit and vigor
Cordoba immortal.

See, then, how are and have been able to my countrywomen. God bless you all.

Unable to appear to be as good, the neglected and abandoned men rogues. Addition The pilgrimage
of which we spoke, the left to go to the casino, where they spend idle time. He had plenty of reason
to the roar of the great Donoso both against the casino, where eloquent book on Catholicism.
It is true that there has always been casino, just before for the rich, is called the box, and was in
the pharmacy, and the poor, the casino was in the tavern. But in the day or the pharmacy or
the pubs are gone, and everywhere however small, swarming, boiled
in casinos.

Each factions, each has the political hue yours. There are conservative casino, casino radical
Carlist casino, casino casino socialist and republican. The poor women are left alone. I do
not know how no woman who is liberal! All should be absolute, and many are in the background.

The
only compensation that the woman brings brand new liberalism is quite
weak marital and paternal authority, which previously was terrible
and even tyrannical.

A rod is the government called a house, but the spirited woman, as is the Cordoba, it hurts
when the disdain that when you're stuck, plus a slight breaks to beat.

Anyway, Cordoba women, like other Spanish, still retains a spring pure comfort for their sorrows
and disappointments: this spring is the Christian religion. Cordoba there is not deeply religious.

Among
men ungodliness has spread. The discharged soldier, returning home, has often bring a copy
of the citing authors, the papers are read, and not all are pious,
and finally, not missing student returning to college Krause infected
and even Hegel, and that addresses the rustic check to see if it makes
pantheistic and egotism.

Women do not understand, nor want to understand, so convoluted picky, and still attached to its old
beliefs.

They are the balm for all wounds of his heart, they will fill imperishable hopes, they open in his
ardent imagination infinite horizons, golden by the divine light of the sun of love and glory.

Even
for less stringent requirements and more vulgar satisfactions is religion a mine inexhaustible.
Almost all honest feminine pastime is based on religion. If it were not for her, Would there
be as happy as the pilgrimage of the Virgen de Araceli and the Virgen de la Sierra Goat? Child
Would Jesus wear? Would procession to do? Would passage of Abraham, Descent, Jews and Romans,
apostles and prophets, encolchados, ensabanados and jumeones, Cross brothers, and other figures
coming out in the streets during Holy Week? None of this would. No woman would jubilees or novenas,
or hear sermons or adorn with flowers no altar, no crosses or engalanaría May, or so happy in the
month of Mary. The swallows, who are now respected because he tore Christ with thorns peak the
crown, would be persecuted and killed, and would not come every year to nest in the eaves
or in the same house, or greet the owner with his gay peeps and squeaks. Especially for women
would be dead and meaningless, that takes religion. The Passiflora lose its symbolic value, and
to love her boyfriend or husband or lover, who she always combined with a presentiment of immortal
joys, and idealized, beautifies and praises with a thousand vague red glow of mysticism, whatever
became quite less poetic.

This is, in general, women in the province of Cordoba. If you go into details, it would this writing
endless.

In that province, as in all, a thousand degrees of culture and wealth, for varying types. There are
also individual differences in character Apparel and understanding.

I missed a very serious point. I'll touch, albeit slightly, before finishing the article. This
point is the philological: the language and style of Cordoba.

The Cordoba, usually (and understood that I speak of the laborer or servant, and not elegant and educated
lady), hache sucks. It also has remarkable propensity to corroborate words with strong syllables
prefixed. When not satisfied with rogue call anyone, retunante called,
and God was not enough, exclaims: Redio!

In several towns in my province and in many towns of Jaen, it is very frequent some inarticulate
interjection which coincides with a snore. The Cordoba, finally, adorns his speech with a
thousand pictures and pictures, he peppered with witticisms and jokes, and encouraged by the
gesture and gesticulation.

The adverb is used to blanket every moment to weigh or abundance of
something expensive.

The voices blankets, manteson, Mantese and mantesonada, mantesería and mantesonería, dot or
fill up all conversation as much of charran Malaga and its derivatives. Is even more unique the
use of the gerund in short, to express something is done smoothly and softness. So you say "Don
Fulano is muriendito. Deseandito The girl is married, or rabiandito by boyfriend. "

In pronunciation leaves a bit to be desired of Cordoba. The Zeda and confused that and unimisman
in their mouths, and the elements, the ere and pe.

Who knows if it would be a teacher Cordoba crumb which told his disciples: "Girls, deaf and
precerto writes ele PE '? But if the pronunciation is this anarchy, the syntax and the lexical well
as the Cordoba Cordoba, are abundant and extremely elegant at times, and always castizos,
easy and funny. No Castilla few people could go there to learn to speak Castilian, as not to
rule.

No servile adulation assure that the Cordoba is usually discreet, funny and sharp. Its natural clearing
supplies in it very often lack of education and knowledge. His talks are hilarious. Facunda is
naturally and spontaneously in what he says and thinks. Friendly laughing and teasing, teasing
men, and they released a thousand barbs sharp and pointed, but never rages.

What else should I add? Cordoba is a miser and a generous, but all
are generous and charities.

Cordoba is still reading old books, the most devout, who belonged her great-grandmother, and
they are as linked in the house; v. gr.: La Perfecta Casada, teacher Leon, The contempt of court
and praise of the village, and Mount Calvary, Fray Antonio de Guevara, and even the Complete
Works (about twenty volumes in folio) of the venerable Palafox. I do not say fantasizing: I have known
villager Cordoba had and read these and other books like that. Others read modern novels of the
worst. Others do not read anything.

Women must have been in Seville or Madrid, who have gone to Manchester
and have seen the sea; and women are never left their small village,
and Madrid are so confused idea like that I am of the cities that
may be on another planet.

Almost none are dissatisfied with their lot. Good pasta is very common. Pride also excited to
underestimate the what is within their reach, and the love of country, contained within the
narrow limits the people that were born and raised, it becomes more intense, energetic and
crisp, and moves to the frenzy that people love and that society,
in preference to all, and stirred almost with fury against anyone
who censorship.

Were I to continue counting and painting things circumstantially,
write a tome of five or six hundred pages.

Let us therefore point here, and thanks to this article not small for long, as the reader has enough
indulgence, roam and quiet, for read all without anger, fatigue, or yawning.

SOME Chrematistics

MEDITATION (a).

I.

When Virgil, inspired by the ancient verses of the Sibyl, the
general expectation among all nations that was to come a savior, and
maybe some news he had of the Hebrew prophets, predicted more or less
vaguely, in his famous Eclogue IV, redemption the world, yet it seemed
that this redemption was not to be instant, however miraculous it
was, and so I said priscae vestigia suberunt fraudis: not a few remnants
remain tunanterías past and misery.

(A) Published in The Magazine
of Spain in 1870