 Needs modern trade
forced the monopolists of one of the first wines of the world to intervene in these intrigues
and combinations, which were with the cognac's main export of the house. At the bottom of the cellar
was the fourth shipment of references, "the library house, "as Montenegro. A shelf units with glass
doors kept aligned in compact rows thousands and thousands of small bottles, carefully covered,
each with its label in the States has a date. This agglomeration of the bottle was like history
business of the house. Each bottle bore the sign of a consignment, the reference of a liquid constructed
in accordance with the wishes of the consumer. To repeat the consignment was not the customer
rather than remember the date, and the manager of the references sought the sample, developing
new liquid.

The shipping warehouse contained four thousand different wines to boot combinations. In a room
dark, no other light than a berth sealed with a red glass was the camera obscura. There the
technical review, the light beam through the glass of wine newly opened barrel.

According to the references or the letter sent from the desktop, combined with the new wine various
liquids and then marked with clarion on the faces of the number of barrels jars that had to
be extracted from each to form the mixture. The cast aside, guys went sturdy, body shirt, sleeves
rolled up and the wide black belt snugly to the kidneys, going from side to side with metal jars,
wine racked to barrel combination new shipment.

Montenegro had known since childhood to winemaker shipping. It was used more old home. He had
glimpsed as a child the first Dupont, founder of the establishment. The second had been treated as a
partner, and the current chief, Dupont Young had had on their arms and joined the familiarity
of paternal confidence he inspired fear Don Pablo with his imperious character of the owner
to old style.

It was an old man who seemed swollen by the atmosphere of the winery. Your skin, furrowed by
wrinkles, had the brightness of eternal moisture, as if the wine
vanished penetrated by all pores and runs off the edge of his mustache
in tears.

Isolated in his cellar, bound to silence by the long confinement in
the dark room, I felt itching to talk when there was any desktop,
especially Montenegro, that, as he could be a son of the house.

-
What about your father? - Fermín asked .-- Whenever in the vineyard,
huh?

... There is better than this damp cave. For sure I will live longer.

And look at the role offered Montenegro, made a face of disgust.

- Another job out! - Ironically exclaimed .-- Wine combined for shipping! ... Well go business,
Mr. God. We used the first home of the world, unique, our wines and our country's screeds.
Now we make concoctions, wine foreigners, Wood, Port, Marsala, or imitate the Tintillo of
Rota and Malaga. And for this God farming wines of Jerez and strengthens our vineyards! To
deny our name ... Come I feel a desire for an end to phylloxera for not holding back any more
fakes and lies!

...

Montenegro knew the quirks of the old. Not had a packing list that burst in curses against the decline
of the wines of Jerez.

- You have not reached the proper time, Ferminillo - continued, - why take things so composure.
You are from the modern, who believe that things are going well because we sell cognac much
as any house of foreign countries, whose vineyards produce only crap, God grant without the slightest
semblance to Jerez ... Tell me, you who have run world, where have you seen our Palomino grape,
nor of vintages, or the battery Mantua, or the Cañocaso, neither canine nor the Pedro Ximenez? ...
What have you to see! It is only breeding earth is a gift from God ... and, as rich, cognac or
wine manufacture of imitation because Jerez, Jerez true is no longer fashionable, say these gentlemen
from abroad! Here are just warehouses.

These are liquor stores, drugstores, anything but what they were
in another time and come on, that makes me want to fly away never
to return, when you present with these confetti, asking me to do another
fake.

The old man heard indignant responses Fermín.

- These are requirements of modern commerce, Mr Vincent, have changed business and pleasure
the public.

- Well, do not drink, porra!, Leave us alone, without requiring them to dress our wines, will
keep them safely stored for they age, and I am sure someday we will look for justice coming to
its knees ... This has changed a lot. The England must be lost. No need to tell me, too I
see it getting here visits. Before British came under the winery, but the passengers were
people of distinction: Lords and Lords, the lowest. Gave glory to see how air apimplaban lordship.
Cup from here, to place an order! Cup there to compare!, And so went to the winery, serious as
priests, until the output had to lie on the buggy to take them to the inn. Know and do justice
to taste good ... Now, when playing in Cadiz boat English, arrive in droves, with a guide at the front,
prove anything because there is free and, if buy something, they are content with bottles
of three pesetas.

Do not know drunk with nobility: shouting, arm brawl and go staggering
down the street to the lads laugh.

I thought before all the English were rich, and it turns out this gang are traveling in any
thing, cobblers or London shopkeepers to take the air out the savings of the year ... So leave
the business.

Montenegro smiled listening to incoherent lamentations of the old.

- Furthermore - continued the grocer - in England, as here, the customs are lost old. Many English
people do not drink more than water, and, as I have said, it is not elegant after eating, the ladies
are going to talk to a room, while men remain drinking up the servants to take the trouble to remove
them from under the table. They no longer need evening as a nightcap, a couple of bottles
of sherry that cost a bunch shillings. Those who still get drunk to prove they are gentlemen,
they use what they call long drinks - is not this, you who have been there? - crap that cost
little and allow drinking and drinking before apimplarse, the wischy with soda and other disgusting
concoctions. Ordinariness dominates. Xerrrez as no longer ask when they come here and find
it for free. The only Jerez we appreciate the land, will soon just
buy us.

They drunk with cheap stuff, and so leave their affairs.

In the Transvaal almost burst. The best day I pasted into the sea with all its handsomeness.
Decay: no longer are the same those times when the house was a warehouse Dupont little bigger
than a shack, but sent their bottles to your cellar and Mr. Pitt, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Velintón and
other gentlemen whose names appear on the sills oldest large winery.

Montenegro was still laughing when he heard these laments.

- Laugh, boy, laughing. You are all the same: they have known good and you wonder the I find
that bad old today. You know how they paid before the boot of thirty a arrobas? Well, was worth
230 pesos, and has now sold in some years to 21 pesos. Ask your father, but less old than I,
also called the golden era. The money flowed in Jerez as well as the air. There were planters
who used and lived calanes in a shack on the outskirts and poor, lit by a lamp, but to pay a
bill threw a bag they had under the pine nightstand like a sack of potatoes, Nah, you take
and ounces! Workers in the vineyards charged thirty to forty real wages, and allowed the fantasy
of going to the block in surrey and patent leather shoes. Nothing newspapers, or harangues,
or rallies. Wherever people gathered sounding guitar, streak released each and every ram that
God is shaking like meat ... If Fernando Salvatierra had appeared then, your father's crony, with
all these things poor and rich, land deals and rivoluciones, we have offered a reed and had
said: "Sit your honor on the floor, comrade, drink, sing, take a dance with if this young lady
like and do not mind bad blood in our lives, which is not of the worst "... But the British soon
as we drink, the money comes less frequently in Jerez, and thereby hidden condemned that nobody
sees. Workers in the vineyards and have won ten real face of vinegar. In case you have to trim
with a knife or scissors, kill each other, there Mano Negra and the square of the prison were
given stick to men what had not been seen in many years Jerez. The laborer just click like
a hedgehog spoken to, and love is worse than before. You do not see the gentlemen alternating
with the poor in the vintage, dancing and flirting with girls as a young farmhand. Guard runs
the civil field and in the times we went bandits on the roads ... And everything what, sir?
As I say, because the English are fond of fucking and whischy ignore the good wood cutting,
or palm, or any other of the excellence of this blessed land ...
What I say money, money come, come back here, as in other times, pounds,
guineas and shillings and no more strikes, and sermons Salvatierra
and his supporters, and the evil acts of civilians, and all the misery
and shame that we now see!

...

The bottom of the hold out a cry calling Mr. Vicente.

He was a doubter cast aside with the white numbers drawn in front
of a boot and asked for clarification the storekeeper.

- I, son!
- Shouted the old man .-- Beware of mistakes in medicine!

...

And he added to Montenegro:

- Let that slip of paper in the darkroom and I hope that you drop your hands before you get
me more recipes, as if I were a chemist.

The old man walked with slow step and swaying to the bottom of the
cellar, and Montenegro came it through the cooperage shop before returning
to the desktop.

It was a large yard with sheds, under which striking coopers worked
with their decks rings that held the wood.

The casks to medium build, with only top secured by iron hoops, opened their staves over a fire
of chips that warmed, bending to facilitate closure.

Home business forced it to a ceaseless production workshop.

Hundreds of barrels out of it every week to be shipped in Cadiz,
spreading wines Dupont worldwide.

On one side of the courtyard stood a tower formed with staves. At the top of the fragile edifice
two students were picking up throwing them from below, mixing, adding new height to the fragile
construction that exceeded the roof and threatened to collapse, swaying at the slightest movement
as a house of cards.

The head of the cooperage, a stocky, good-natured smile, approached Montenegro.

- How is Don Fernando? ...

Felt by the agitator great respect from his days as a laborer.

Protection Dupont and ductility that folded all his hobbies, he had raised. But as compensation
to the servility that had become the head of the workshop, had a secret affection for the
revolutionary and their associates at the time of misery. Thoroughly learned how he had gone
the presidio Salvatierra and their future life plans.

- I'll go
see him when he can - he said, lowering his voice, - the master does
not find out ... Yesterday we had big party at the church of the Jesuits
and by the afternoon I went with my girls to visit Mrs. ... I know
that you passed the day.

I have said here at the winery.

With the fear of a server that is afraid to lose fat enough welfare, gave advice to the young.
Ojo, Ferminillo! The house was full of informers. When he was aware, would not be Don Pablo surprising
news that had already had visited Montenegro Salvatierra.

And as if afraid to talk too and someone watching him, took his leave hurriedly Fermin, returning
to the side of the workers who beat the drums. Montenegro continued Later, entering the main
cellar of the house, where they kept the old sills aged and aged wines.

It was like a cathedral, but a white cathedral, crisp, bright, with its five naves separated columns
of three rows of simple capital. Agrandábase the footsteps same in a temple. The vaults thundered
with the sound of voices repeating widened by the echo. The walls were torn by the white glass
windows and two gable there were two large rosettes, also white, one of which penetrated the
sun, moving light beam in the restive iridescent dust molecules.

Along the colonnades alineábase in swaths of wealth of the house, the triple row lying barrels,
which were in their faces the figure for the year of harvest.

There were barrels venerable covered with cobwebs and dust, so wet the wood, which seemed close
to undone. They were the patriarchs of the cellar: they were baptized with the names of heroes
who enjoyed worldwide fame when they were born. A barrel is called Napoleon, another Nelson;
had adorned with the royal crown of England, because they had drunk monarchs of Great Britain.
An ancient oak, completely isolated, as if the friction with others could be gutted, exhibited
the venerable name of Noah. It was the most senior the house dated from the mid eighteenth century
and the first of the Dupont had acquired and as a relic. Near it were ranged other barrels they
did under the shield Spain's real names of all the monarchs and infants
who had visited Jerez in course of the century.

The rest of the hold filled samples of all crops, from the first years of the century. A single
barrel spreading a pungent perfume, which, as I said Montenegro, "filled mouth water. " He
was a famous vinegar, one hundred and thirty years old.

And the smell uníanse dry and pungent sweet perfume of sweet wines, and soft leather, the dry.
The alcoholic vapor transpired oak barrels and the smell of the drops spilled on the ground
for the transfer, permeated with the scent of the quiet gentle madness
atmosphere of the cellar, white, like an ice palace, trembling under
the caress of inflamed by the sun glasses.

Fermin went through, and was already out of it when he heard his name called from the bottom.
Experienced a shock to know the voice. Was 'the master', who accompanied some outsiders. With
him was his cousin Luis, a Dupont was lower only in some years to Don Pablo, respected him
as head of the family, without depriving him of this in great trouble
with his behavior disarray.

Dupont accompanied the two newlyweds who had come from Madrid, teaching holds. He was an old friend of
a gay life in Madrid comrade who had sat head end by marrying.

- You have to get out of here drunk - Dupont said the young newlyweds .-- It ritual: we would consider
disgraced if a friend out of this house it came.

And Dupont the most benevolent smile welcomed with the words of his cousin, while listing the
excellence of each wine famous. The manager of the winery, stiff as a soldier, placed before
the barrels with two glasses in one hand and the other compromise, a rod iron topped by a narrow
saucepan.

- Saca, Juanito! - Imperiously ordered the master.

The compromise was sinking into different barrels, and in one fell
swoop, without spilling a drop, he filled the glasses.

Out air and light golden wine, crowned with brilliant falling into the glass, spreading around
an intense perfume of old age.

All shades Amber, from light gray to pale yellow, shining in those dense liquid view as oil, but
in a clear transparency. A distant exotic perfume, which made fantastic flowers think of a supernatural
world where there was eternal, emanated of these liquids extracted from the mystery of the casks. Life
seemed to accrue to the palate; charged senses new intensity, the blood burned in his trampling
on circulation and the smell was excited feeling unknown longing,
as if sniff a new electricity in the atmosphere.

The couple drank all travelers, after resist weak protests Luis invitations.

-
Hi, Barbie! - Dupont told the child to see Montenegro .-- How is your
family?

One day of these go into the vineyard. I want to try a horse that
I bought yesterday.

And after shaking hands with Montenegro and take several pats on the shoulders, satisfied able
to demonstrate the strength of his big hands to those friends, he turned his back.

Fermin had great confidence in this gentleman. It tuteaban, had grown up together in the vineyard
Marchamalo, with that frankness of treatment enabled the Dupont family.

With Don Pablo, the situation was different. The master did not differ from Fermin in over half
a dozen years, also had seen him as a boy running through the vineyard in the late times Don
Paul, but now was the head of the family, the head of the house, and he understood the authority
to use old, grim and indisputable as God, with shouts and outbursts
of anger, just sensed the slightest disobedience.

- Stay - briefly
ordered Montenegro, - I have to talk.

And he turned back to continue talking to strangers of his treasure of wines.

Fermin, forcing him to silent and shrunk as a servant in idle for between the barrels, he looked
at Don Pablo.

He was still young, it had reached forty, but his body disfigured obesity despite the active life
you rider drove his enthusiasms.

The arms seemed short to get some rest on the bulging curved contour of your body. His youth revelábase
only chubby face, full lips and projections on which the virility had drawn only a slight mustache.
The curly hair on the forehead forming a loop tight, a Monet that often took his meaty hand. Was
usually, kind and peaceful, but enough to be disobeyed or disappointed believed to redden it face,
his voice reedy piping tone of anger. The concept was the authority, the habit of sending from
his youth seeing the front of the wineries the death of his father, made him a despotic with
subordinates and his own family.

Fermín feared without hate. He saw a sick person, "a degenerate",
capable of the greatest extravagance by religious exaltation. For
Dupont, the master it was by divine right, as the former kings. God
wanted me there were rich and poor, and those below should obey the
above, because they ordered a social hierarchy of celestial origin.
It was not stingy in matters of money, rather, was generous in compensation
for services, although his generosity had a lot of fickle and intermittent,
looking more in terms of people sympathetic that on its merits. Sometimes,
to find in the street workers dismissed from their warehouses, indignant
because they greeted him. "You! - Said imperiously, - even when you're
in my house Your duty is to greet me forever because I was your master.
"

And this Don Paul, who with industrial strength accumulated by
his predecessors and with the impetuosity of his character was the
nightmare of a thousand men, made a show of humility and reached servility
as a secular priest or monks of various orders established Jerez visited
him at his desk. Tried to kneel down to kiss his hand, not doing because
they prevented it with a kindly smile, celebrated with a gesture of
satisfaction that visitors will tuteasen to employees, calling Pablito,
as in the time that was his pupil.

Jesus and His Holy Mother, above
all business combinations! They watched over the interests of the
house and he was not just a simple sinner, were just receiving their
inspirations