 So were the vegetables. For one to be
achieved by dint of care and vigilance, thirty or forty perished. Surveillance constant gardener was
not enough to prevent the considerable mortality.

The house style was not a national or even European. Was built according to the precepts chinoiserie
architecture, full of towers festooned everywhere. What connection had these tiny brick towers with
the famous Babel, where languages ??were confused, we do not know, but we must say that this works
well trimmed, they called Babylon in the country of Don Rosendo. It was lavishly furnished.
No missing within it none of the comforts and refinements of modern civilization provides rich.
He was a famous Persian-style decorated room, bathroom, a spacious dining moderately cabinets painted
and some nice small and warm, where the light came sifted colored crystals.

In this nest came to stop and Ventura Gonzalo two hours of being together forever. On the way he had
spoken to disengage from things indifferent. The young man had applied some kisses on the cheeks
of the girl, the same as when lovers. But to get to the Babylonian and finding themselves alone in
the Persian camera, felt strangely confused and shortened. Search Subject conversation, and all was
lost. Venturita barely looked at him askance replied with expression between mocking and passionate.

-
Look, shut up, shut up!

You're saying a lot of nonsense ... Shut up and kiss me - concluded by say laughing and covering
her mouth with her delicate hand.

Gonzalo blushed, and hugged her frenzy.

His drunkenness in the early days bordered on madness. Venturita was, by its singular beauty the
languid, sensual expression of their eyes, the invincible tendency to break, true odalisque. But
not like these only a beautiful animal, but animated by wit sparkling, overflowing all the time
in funny misunderstandings and happy occurrences.

Gonzalo is roaring with laughter, not realizing that it is dangerous to husbands laugh too much jokes
about their wives.

The life you did was quite sedentary. A Ventura did not like leaving home. The sun produces headache;
the cool of the evening was irritated throat. Dressing took care of him, and varied costumes
same as if he were in Madrid. In her dressing spent a large part the day. This is not disliked
Gonzalo.

On the contrary, when I saw so beautiful and graceful exit, breathing, such as tropical flowers,
a penetrating perfume, felt himself possessed of enthusiasm. A voluptuous shudder shook her
whole being, thinking that this exquisite work of Nature was his, all its own.

However, it was not as much as he imagined.

Sometimes the young wife, half in earnest, half in jest, was locked in his room. They spent
three or four hours without allowing enter, despite the loving prayers
that reverberate in the keyhole.

- I deprive myself of my sight for
some time - said after laughing, - for having me want more with you.

And indeed, through these flirtations, the appetite grew extremely young, and became delirious.

In the hours that it pleased him to beautiful, went for a walk through
the gardens, without departing much.

To get somewhere shady and cool, of the few reformist hand gift Rosendo
had left, she wanted to sit, but not on the grass or on a rustic bench.

Gonzalo was a need to run home and bring a chair.

- Now, sit here at my feet.

The youth prostrated himself and kissed her hands enthusiastically
handed him the gentle wife.

- Samson and Delilah! - She exclaimed,
laughing and thrusting his hands like snowflakes in the curly blond
beard of her husband.

- You're right - he responded with a sigh .--
A bald Samson.

- Do not have hair!

... So what is this? - Replied by raising his hair, and putting bristling
as a broom.

- I speak of my strength.

- Do not have forces, eh?

Let's see: you take those arms.

The laughing, is stripped of his jacket, rolled up his sleeves and
showed his huge arms Gladiator, which took vigorous muscle relief
as a thick web of ropes.

- Good lord! - Taking one girl exclaimed
with both hands, unable to even come embrace.

And suddenly possessed of enthusiasm and admiration, he added:

- How strong, how beautiful you are, Gonzalo! Let me bite those arms.

And she bent to sink their teeth menudísimos them.

But the youth spread their ferrous muscles, and teeth slipped through the skin without penetrating.

Then
she got angry, he insisted, wanted by all means take meat.

After all, he loosened muscles saying

- I leave bite, but on condition that make me blood.

- No, that's
not - she answered, smiling eagerly expressing the desire to do so.

"Yes, I want to do blood and if not, do not leave.

The girl started slowly pressing the flesh of her husband.

- More!
- He said.

And tighter.

- More! - Again say.

While still squeezing his eyes sparkled with a mischievous smile.

- More! More!

- Basta - she said .-- rising See it? And made you blood!

What atrocity, and it was a dog!

I bent down and sucked eagerly voluptuous droplet of blood that leaped in the arm. Both smiled
with repressed passion. After looking at the small circle of blue that teeth of the girl had
stopped printing.

- You see? - Say it again .-- Go embarrassed about
the strange quirks of yours!

- Thanks.

I want this mark stay, there forever.

But no soon be deleted, alas!

- I can renew it every day - he replied mischievously.

- I would be delighted.

- Come on, you want to turn your woman on dog. Say frankly.

And suddenly hugging and kissing him wildly in his eyes, cheeks, mouth,
on the chin, he kept repeating:

- Say it honestly!

Say frankly, a piece of bear! ... This mouth is mine, and kiss. This beard is mine, and kissed
her. This neck is mine, and kissed him. These arms are mine, mine! and kiss.

- Take me everything: my life is yours - he said that drunk.

- I love you I love you, Gonzalo, so beautiful, so strong ... Let's
see, let me put a hand on yours ... What nonsense, seems an ant!

-
A white ant - he replied that drowning tiny hand in his large fibrous.

-
I love you I love you, Gonzalo.

Take me in your arms.

Can you walk with me as well?

- Oh! I not be?

Lifted like a feather, and put on one arm and children, began jumping up in the garden.

- Not so much! Take me gently. Let's ride.

The fatigue-walked around the park. And from that day for a walk that way liked both the girl,
who left the house as it hung around the neck of her husband to the go up. The servants shook
their heads at them smiling.

But she soon found other means even more fun. There was a swing close to home that time, rather
than use, had deteriorated. He had arranged, and as it was spent hours soon rocked by Gonzalo.

- If you saw how joy. It's a little stronger.

And the vigorous drive of the young, flying swing, and she closed her eyes dilating nose with
a feeling of intense pleasure.

Gonzalo enjoyed seeing her so enraptured.

Passed twenty days of this sort.

During that received two visits Pablito and Pisces, once in tilbury
and another horse.

In the latter into its main purpose was to riding a pony that Paul had changed to another older.
And strange! despite the alienation love that our boy was, he was
visited by Equitable with inexplicable joy, eagerly helped in his
task.

When he left he felt a sense of emptiness in his life. Because it was so calm and peaceful,
their blood and muscles suffering. A day he told his wife to go hunting, he was famous and tireless
hunter. Venturita not opposed, provided it with you.

This was agreed. They went out one morning to find a flock of partridges, whose existence
Gonzalo knew from the day he had come to Tejada. But before two kilometers away from the house,
rendered entirely Venturita said. He could not go a step further. Was obliged to bring in
arms and give up your favorite recreation.

Dona Paula, who had looked with hostility the marriage, it talked
about going to see the bride and groom until after many days past.

Pablito wanted to accompany her, fearing that Cecilia will cause some pain to do so, but, aware
it said his decision to go also Tejada. One afternoon mother and daughter in a carriage undertaken
discovered the path leading possession. But as he approached her and descry the famous brick turrets,
Cecilia began to fade, she felt her breast and troubled eye.

Dona Paula, who warned his illness, ordered the driver to turn around.

- Poor child! - The kissing said .-- See how you can not come?

- Because I can, Mom, I'll be able - said covering his eyes with one hand.

The next day, was accompanied by Paul Dona Paula. Found a very enabling spouses to leave hiding
the nest and move into the villa, as was done in the same week.

Cecilia left her at the front door and hugged and kissed his sister with effusion. A Gonzalo,
held out his hand, which for a sovereign effort of will, not shaken. The young pressed with brotherly
affection, believing forgiven.

The couple occupied the rooms that Dona Paula had gone into their first child. Life began to
slide serene appearance. Gonzalo warned, however, with regret, they do not wrap the warm and loving
atmosphere that makes it so pleasing the domestic hearth. From Don Rosendo to the last servant,
showed them attentive, deferential, not loving. Ventura not warned, and warned if he cared little.

Let
us now view the most interesting issues of public life Sarrió.

That noble victory won clerics, things Sarrió Lighthouse, came well and prosper. The spirited
and intrepid naval aide was able to continue its civilizing campaign
without danger of new traps.

Sinforoso not withdraw, however, to his home unless accompanied him or another friend, both well
armed.

But Gabino Maza, the eternal dissident maliciously took advantage of this break with Church,
to shock the consciences of some neighbors. Not that he was a fervent Catholic, nor give a damn that
you put the priests and parsley leaf. On the contrary, all life had professed quite unorthodox
ideas and had cursed the blessed. But now showed shocked: "At last, after all, had been raised in
respect of religion, which is the only check on the people. You can not blatantly offend the
sacred beliefs of our wives, etc., etc. "Some of these perfidious insinuations, left newspaper
subscription.

The writers and director, who guessed where it came from the coup, were greatly incensed. Gabino
Maza, supported by no less wayward Delaunay, not give up its campaign of slander. While some of the
Lighthouse was before, nothing, but as he went, brandishing the languages ??with singular ferocity.
Sometimes serious, others appeal to ridicule, was ground to all those involved in the newspaper,
and particularly, of course, the best and most highly personified
as the virtuoso Don Rosendo.

They said oh, wanes! that only the desire "to be in print" had led to those deserving citizens
to light the torch of progress in Sarrió, Don Rufo, the doctor was a fraud; Sinforoso, a pauper who
threw a crust; Alvaro Peña (here the voice and looked down at all sides), a trial without a hint
of smarty, Don Feliciano Gómez, a poor devil who mattered most not engage in a thriving business,
Don Rudesindo, a large taciturn, which was rent a store and announce their cider. As the founder
and promoter of that company, Don Rosendo, said that all life had been a Badulaque, a fool who
believed writer without understanding anything other than the rise
and fall of cod ...

Only imperative duty to appear as faithful and
impartial chroniclers, forces us to realize of such talk.

God knows who has been with hard work and disgust. Because the same pen trembles in our hands
and refuse to print such abominations.

Don Pedro Miranda, absteníanse of the whisperers whisper, for no other reason but have you
applied for leave to participate in the newspaper, which saw him bow from the fray of the clergy,
as was Don Pedro and very large old Christian friend chaplain of the Augustinians. With their
malicious speeches had been made against the newspaper unleashing
some influential ladies of the town, including Dona Brigida.

This had at his of the Club within the madman and degraded Marín.

Also attracted to his side, soon after the drunk mayor.

On the one hand the spirit of fellowship with the circles of Morana
shop, and other discomfort I felt with the constant excitations press,
which was not used, will soon deny he made enormous progress.

What I ended up putting wrong with The Lighthouse and its editors,
was some press release that are censored City Hall and the mayor with
some hardness on the sad neglect that had the urban police services,
and how little work to do enjoyable summer "The distinguished scrofulous
attending Sarrió beach in search of health."

Although apparently were treated as friends, there was, therefore,
between the main partners Saloncillo deaf and hidden enemy.

It was increasing day by day thanks to the go-between that in similar cases, do not cease to
sow envy and resentment.

Temíanse and disputes and shunned because the monstrous cries and
hurled insults previously without success any thanks to the compromise
that was friendly to all, were, at present, much danger.

There was, therefore, in that place, more silence, more courtesy,
but far less frankness and cordiality.

That tension could not last long. Among people who are daily and speak, and do not want it is impossible
that in the near future be sure to burst contention. The occasion
was this.

Reached Saloncillo (was poor chance!), Without knowing who bring
a copy Illustration of some Catalan, where, among other prints, looked
one representing the American banks of a river, and amuse them up
to a dozen crocodiles of various sizes.

Had in hand exemplary Maza, when Don Rufo approaching from behind, said jokingly:

- Look at those skinny crocodiles!

- There are crocodiles - Maza said dryly contemptuous, without looking
up.

- Why not to be? - Said the doctor injured by that tone.

- Why
not.

- Valiente right!

- If you're not convinced, considering that
I'm not here to do works of mercy.

- Ugh!

The sage of Greece! To one side, gentlemen!

- I am not a scientist, but do not say that these animals are crocodiles,
when the Marañón River not bred crocodiles.

- What are they?

- Cayman.

-
Call hache!

Alligators and crocodiles come to be the same.

- Another awful! Where did you learn that?

- Man, is last nail.

The alligator and the crocodile did not differ only in name. Here is Don Lorenzo has traveled,
and can tell if it is not true.

- The alligator is somewhat smaller - said Don Lorenzo with conciliatory smile.

- The size is of little importance. The question is whether or not the same figure.

Don Lorenzo bowed in assent. Maza jumped, in a rage:

- But, gentlemen. But, gentlemen! Are we among enlightened people or among villagers? Where you
take that alligator is like crocodile? The crocodile is an animal of the Old World and the alligator
is the New World.

- Excuse me, friend Maza, I have seen crocodiles in the Philippines - said Don Rudesindo.

- What do you mean by that?

- As you said that crocodiles are not reared in the New World ...

- Other than this! "The Philippines is the New World? Gentlemen, gentlemen! have to open their
umbrellas. Nonsense raining here today.

- Why, do you want to say that the Philippines is not overseas? - Asked Don Rudesindo with the
face was broken.

- Nothing, nothing, follow the shower!

- The main difference, gentlemen, between the crocodile and the alligator - "here Don Lorenzo
seasoning authority - is that the crocodile has three races and the alligator teeth only two.

-
Not that, man, is not it! Crocodiles have the same teeth as racing alligators.

Don Lorenzo said briskly his assertion. We helped in the defense don Rudesindo. Maza attacked him no
less fire, supported by Delaunay. Soon entered the fray a few other partners generalized combat,
which was becoming more alive. The voices were horrendous. If they had possessed three races of teeth
such as crocodiles, or even if they were two, no doubt would devour,
Given the anger and the courage with which they taught the only with
which Nature had endowed them.

Maza was so impudent, insolent, who finally Rudesindo gift, without being master of himself,
he downloaded an umbrella on his head. Ensued him a hail of them among the contenders, with
an awful sound of whales and wire rods that the man was shivering more Arriscado. Many who had not
even agreed to give its opinion on the teeth the reptiles mentioned, received its share of umbrella,
as well as the most had clarified the matter with their speeches. Coffee rose the master with some
other people, the Indians stopped their game of pool, broke in Don Melchor de las Cuevas from
whom and in war and peace is a long case. Finally he managed to defuse the uproar and conclude that
the will, for some months cold.

The result was that from that day Gabino Maza, Delaunay, Don Roque Marín and three or four
members were removed from the Club. Don Pedro Miranda continued to assist with long intervals of absence.
This was presumed to social gatherings and other editors Faro could
not count on him, and did not take long to fall on the opposite side.

As came into effect. Dissidents began meeting in the coffee house located in the Caborana street.
But not many months after the town ran the news that rented a warehouse across the street from San
Florencio to establish their meetings. And so it was. The parquet, carpeted it, then painted the
walls and ceiling, with some chairs and amuebláronlo armchairs, set up tables of triplets and began
attending evening and night to that site as assiduously as before the Club. As low ceiling and be embedded
in a wall litter was used to nap Marin, began calling the place in the population the cabin, and
the name stuck. The Lighthouse, which had spurned the deserters while had no roof to shelter, went
into care. The first sign of fear was a press hand or novel in verse, prose describing this
new gathering and painting each of its members with animal names, Maza the snake, a rooster Delaunay
Belgian Marín ass Roque pork, etc., etc. This press exasperated the cabin of an unspeakable way.

Don
Rosendo still growing strong and committed to his campaign journalism. Introduced Faro in all those
ways that have looked at the national and foreign press, particularly in French. Had commissioned
a writer in Madrid for Wednesday send her a message of twenty words, and I also write political
letters and literary; translated all the news he was curious in the newspapers made fashion
magazines, courts, theater (when there was company.) But where was most distinguished in the
markets.

It is not easy skill with which he drove, and had brought cereal, oils, broth and rice. In order
to see how amenity and gallantry knew how to treat a matter so commonplace, say he once wrote:
"The honey, sensitive to these alterations, spoke in low and did not reach stability and firmness
in prices until coffees, cocoas and other genera living overseas were able to suppress their
swings. " Was, in short, the soul of the newspaper.

It was not enough, however, what he had done to bring it up to your
ideal. Belinchón always followed with lively interest in the Paris
newspapers these personal controversies rarely left to end a duel.
And the adventures of this, carefully counted by a witness, it pleased
him so extremely, that no food was so delicious to him, no more pleasant
recreation. When many days passed without challenge, Don Rosendo languished.
Descriptions of assault weapons among shooters famous capital of France,
also excited greatly curious. And if a little is entangled in those
technical phrases Magin Sixt engagement, battement in quarte, contre-riposte,
feint, etc., back to the translated his way and was aware of it. He
said that no sign was better known the extent of culture of a country
in the hobby to arms. The handling of them woke up and fanned the
idea of honor and dignity. His retirement drew him of cowardice and
degradation. Knew better than their relatives the biography of the
greatest duelists and armes des gens de Paris. Could and verse describe
the challenges they had and the severity of injuries. As announced
an assault between two masters, for example Grisier Jacob was already
our knight excited. Hastily opened the Figaro daily and bet on Inside
one or the other.

One day it occurred in the bed (where he always
attacked the big ideas) to be journalist without knowing or handle
weapons, was the same as a dancer and not playing the castanets. When
you least expect it raised a set, you had to go to ground, and he
did not even know be on guard. Sarrió true that all who knew there
was more. But nobody had obligation to know as much fencing as he.
Moreover, the argument could be a journalist Lancia or Madrid, and
then had to be left murder. These imaginings led him to adopt a resolution,
that of learning at all costs to pull the foil. How