 

Alans are not satisfied with just the death of Roger, because at the same time attacked all the
Catalans and Aragonese, who were in his company, and the appalling death tore, Pachymeres and says that
he ordered his uncle Miguel Teodoro who detained the Alans and the other nations, with our bloods
bitter Adrianople left to slaughter all that topasen of our nation, which had housed many of
those villages, and that this was Michael because he feared that his people were not losers,
and do not lose momentum. This seems to me that clearly reveals the mind of Michael, who was
no doubt of finishing them all. All the people on board was attacked acaballo all Catalans and
Aragonese within the city, and beyond, but some injured and abused took up arms, and lost their remaining
life with equal damage the enemy. Only three men escaped of this pitiful tragedy, since Nicephore
says, who escaped the most part. The one Ramon called Alquen, son of Gilabert natural Alquen Castellon
de Ampurias, the other two Guillen was Tous, and Berenguer de Roudor de Llobregat, although
others did not die then were then placed in irons, and then most cruelly burned, and then refer
by Pachymeres relationship. These three men won valiant defending a church, and the most vigorous
in it, they had to remove it to a tower, fighting from despair so high that it was not possible,
efforts were made to chew, or kill them pay them. Miguel after running his ruthlessness, wanted
to earn a reputation for compassionate and gracious, and so ordered that no one offend them, and
gave them safe conduct to return to Gallipoli. Nicephore Montaner differs somewhat from that
fact, because he says that Roger was with only two hundred horses to Adrianople, and not just be
with Miguel, and give an account of what had been determined on war, as Montaner writes, but to
ask for money, and when he refuses let them take it by force. These are words of Nicephore, and
to what I can understand such with little agreement on what previously had referred, that Michael
was in Adrianople with a powerful army and a captain does not seem as wise as Roger, whom the
Greeks call them, whenever occasion offers, a man of great wisdom, so much nonsense hiciese, as
go out with only three hundred horsemen to threaten an Emperor, who was in of a large city, with
a powerful army.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

The warriors discovered taking up arms against the Greeks, and in
different parts Empire of the Catalans and Aragonese kill.

The warriors who were with Berenguer de Entenza and Rocafort, seemed to entice the last Andronico
means that they pay. Sent three ambassadors to the Emperor, so resolutely tell him that if within fifteen
days they came with no part of what they are due, I was forced to depart from their service,
to lead their weapons achieve what his reason and justice could neck. Emperor received the three
ambassadors, who were Rodrigo Santa Cruz Perez, Arnaldo de Moncortes, and Ferrer Torrellas, and
in the presence of most part of its members and ministers, and very harshly said, that the Greek
Empire was not so utterly destroyed, that could not raise powerful armies to punish his daring and
defiance, and although there were many services that had been done in the war East, and had
erased its excesses and excesses, and with little respect and obedience they had to his crown:
he would do what was played and reason, in the rest advised them, not to rush desperately to what
they were so bad, and not with pidiesen the violence that they could deny it, that loyalty they
so prided was lost, if the grants were requested by force to their Prince. Without wanting
to hear his response, or lead to more satisfaction, he sent the Emperor, who agree to be resolved
with more and talk to him. Within a few days later came the news to the death of Constantinople
Roger, and some cruelties that our people were at Gallipoli, and the people rose against the
Catalans, Pachymeres says, but referred Montaner, who at the same time in all cities of the
Empire was beheaded by order of the Catalans Andronico, and Miguel. Perhaps in this walk something
passionate Montaner, attributing all the blame to the Emperors; but what I have certainly
irritated the people executed this evil and they do not address it.

In Constantinople, the people rose, and rushed into the barracks to
do were the Catalans, as if they were to hunt wild animals were beheading
and killing them by the City.

After slaughtered many, went to Raul Paqueo house, a relative of Andronico, and father of Ferdinand
Aones the Admiral, and asked the people who then gave them what was inside the Catalans; and because
this was not done as soon as they wanted, set fire to the house that had burned everything
inside, and certainly I have here the three ambassadors and Admiral perished. The Patriarch of Constantinople
came to suppress the riotous crowd, and without very dangerous indeed retired. The greatest
difficulty was offered for not being able to push the Catalans all at once, because it was well
defended Gallipoli, and those who were staying in villages with weapons in hand, and more adbertidos
that the others were in different parts.

Miguel Gallipoli fearing the death of Roger known not attacked, he ordered Primicerio was great
with all the main army on Gallipoli.

Ejecutóse course, and with lighter cavalry were sent out Captains, so they attacked before
that could be called. They took to the bulk divided by their housing, their beds, and high
break, because between them they had for friends seemed futile care saved. Entered this horse
for a few pairs, through the rigor of the sword Aragonese and Catalan all that ran. The voices
and moans of those who cruelly lacerate and kill, warn many could be put in safe and greed of the
conquerors that engaged in theft left to kill, also led to many from escaping. In Gallipoli
home away from noise and felt confused voices, with which they took our weapons, and wanted
to leave the campaign to recognize and certify the damage feared, but Berenguer de Entenza and the other
captains halted the momentum of the soldiers, who in any case wanted give them out free, and as the
obedience of those people was not at the point you should not dare to send some troops Berenguer
to beat the roads and take language because they feared he would follow behind the rest of the
people, and would be defenseless Gallipoli, whose conservation hung joint health.

Variously between ours ran the fuss in the campaigns and farmhouses Gallipoli neighbors. They said
about the Greeks oppressed military people would have conjured and taken up arms to achieve their
freedom, others through that narrow space sea, the Turks, undertook
no doubt to our barracks, but in this variety of discourses could
never hit upon the truth of such an inhuman event.

Through the night and some confusion in the case of us came to Gallipoli free, and only gave news
that in their homes, in their seats, had been seized with military people and armed.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Berenguer de Entenza, and those who were in Gallipoli, known Roger's death, behead all the neighbors
of Gallipoli, and the enemy camp sites.

While this agitation had some notice of the death of Roger, and the universal slaughter of the Catalans
and Aragonese in Adrianople, and boards in the region of Gallipoli
was executed by order of Michael.

It was so much anger and courage of the Catalans, who says Nicephore and agrees with him Pachymeres,
although silent Montaner, killing all neighbors Gallipoli, sparing to sex or age, and more expensive
Pachymeres the inhumanity of the case by saying; that even children impaled, fierce and evil abominable
if it was true, though one may doubt enemy to be Greek and the Author. But if any occurs over
the apology was in this, because the momentum of the executed anger against the Greeks who were in
front, in satisfaction of a larger cruelty done by them with little agreement without cause. From
Now everything was cruel rage and fury of resentatives parties, it seems that the war not to
men but among beasts. But without doubt that the atrocities of the Greeks exceeded without comparison
to those that made the Catalans, they never violated the law of the people, not offend their
enemies under the word, no insurance, although in other things our people have been really
more than enough, and have not kept the laws of a just war, but the occasion of this was not
to like save the Greeks, that are sufficiently excused the Catalans and Aragonese in this part,
because the war necessarily had to do with equality. Captains were assembled with confusion
and feeling sick to try to remedy. They were in a state so pitiful that even the enemies of pity
could misery. Lost all its services, some time thought that achieve quiet and rest; lost the reputation
for punishment, because he had given occasion for the whole world they had in a little, because
after so many victories deserved this award, largely dead of his friends, and his death in the
eyes.

Gallipoli found ourselves at the time without supplies, without any fortifications when the
enemy that persons close to the number of thirty thousand foot, and fourteen thousand horse among
the three countries of Turkish Greeks, and Greeks Alans got almost
on its walls, threatening to ours a pitiful end, for the Emperor Michael
with the forces that could in Thracia and Macedonia to most of the
people who usually pay the Empire had, and to give out more heat of
Adrianople, and went to Panphilo, and then sent the Grand Duke Basil
Eteriarca, and Humberto Bausi Palor great to Brachial near Gallipoli,
to tighten over the fences.

The first resolution that was taken was to fortify the suburbs, because the enemy does not occupy,
and do not come without losing people and time, covered with houses, to our trenches and walls,
although this did not stop having great difficulty because the space of the suburbs, and uneven
in its defense of the small number of our people. This done, they resolved to send Ambassadors
to the Emperor Andronicus, in the name of our whole nation will depart from their service, and
you retasen, for one hundred to one hundred, or ten to ten as the use of those times fought
in satisfaction of their grievance, and the ignominious death of Roger, and yours, so treacherously
made his son Miguel, and other Greeks. Enviáronse a Montaner gentleman named Sisco, and to
Pedro Lopez Adalid, and two Almugavares, and many others sailors, who were of all differences
of militia who were in our army, and this was before they knew at Gallipoli the death of three
former ambassadors, who were by order of Berenguer de Entenza. While awaiting the final resolution
Andronico by these Ambassadors, the powerful enemy in the campaign pulled the site of Gallipoli
and ours with its usual value, with exits and regular skirmishes wearied him and stopped.

CHAPTER XXX.

Have our advice, it follows that of Berenguer de Entenza, not the best, but be the most powerful.

Was
between the captains of Gallipoli different opinions on how to make war; and so agreed that
the principal leaders came together in council to resolve. Berenguer de Entenza said, if the
value and effort of men like us were born, friends and colleagues, in some work and unhappiness
may be missing, I think certainly it was in which we now suffer, as the largest and most cruel
human variety that usually afflict mortals, being persecuted, mistreated
and killed, for which we should be protected and defended.

What which served as the victories, so much bloodshed, so many provinces
acquired, if at the time just reward was expected due to many services,
with barbaric cruelty runs against us, what we see, and just give
credit?

For more lucky judge of our colleagues who died without feeling the injury, as ours of which
we have to perish so vivid feeling, for stop taking satisfaction
of many offenses, and retire to the country, would be unworthy of
our name, and reputation for many years we have maintained, nor We
receive relatives and friends at home, and she knew us by children,
if our dead companions treacherously not attempt revenge, and will
erase our enemies' blood affront.

The few forces that are stoked with the grievance, the more power could oppose, and most favored
of the reason that so clearly is on our side. Your mind the difficulty becomes invincible courage,
and the greatest danger, the more effort. Asia was the free from the restraint of the Turks by our
weapons, our reputation and fame as well as must be for them, and if Greece wins admiration of
so many today feel the rigor of your sword that could not hold in his favor and defense. Everyone
must have at lost, or at least sailing around Sicily with the ships and galleys that remain;
but the damage they disappointed, that neither the spirit that I acovardó, or the grievance before
her revenge allowed our return. Defender to Gallipoli, is what matters to us now, being at
the entrance Strait, where you can prevent browsing and treatment of these seas, where no corriere
armed by them superior to ours, and so is forced to find supplies and money to support. The
relief we have far, slow, and perhaps dubious, because our Reyes occupy other care more neighbors.
Princes and nations all around us are enemies, do not expect another relief but these ships
and galleys that remain may be accessed from our opponents. This will do two important things, seek
support we will now missing, and divert the enemy of the site that squeezes us so much, and
since war is to be made as already determined, it is well to be somewhere where the enemy are
not as superior, and can more easily achieve a victory, so that credit and reputation of our
arms vulva to its proper place and esteem. The coasts of these provinces neighbors live without
fear, thinking that our forces are not enough to defend at Gallipoli, and as the site last
not leave these walls. This neglect seems which gives us an occasion some of them much harm,
if our galleys and ships Addressing these islands and coasts of the Empire, and since I am
the author of the advice, I will be the execution. At the last words of Berenguer de Entenza Rocafort
rose to face and voice altered, his mind busy signals of anger and revenge, he said, feeling and
passion with which I am for the death of Roger, and our captains and friends, not much disturbance
of the voice and face, then turn the mood for a honest and fair satisfaction. For strict our
offense, rather than by reason, we should make resolution today, because in such chaos and
low readiness are often useful consideration when consultations often difficult. Retreating to
his country wanes and our name would reproach, until our revenge would be so marked and terrible
as it was the perfidy and treachery of the Greeks; and so at this point feel Berenguer de Entenza,
but it touches on the way to make the I contradict counter war, because it seems to me remarkable
mistake to divide our forces, which together are small and unequal power of the enemy to besiege
us. I am certainly and constant Berenguer steal, destroy, and open the coasts around as he offers,
"but who can say that while he be running the seas, the few that remain at Gallipoli are not lost?
And then to where you can Berenguer its navy, where the spoils your victory? Is not no place is as
safe to Sicily, for I and I have more certain the Gallipoli lost if he'll get the people in
his defense to the army garrison, that certain of victory. All famous captains get the most care
to help a square that the enemy is under siege, and for this venture not only the best and
the entire their field, but all his strength? What is still within Berenguer out? Who says
the soldier that his leg has to be to return? The common fear and suspicion can not be removed,
blood and clear facts but are safe for those born garments like him. Our revenge remedies requested
is no longer so cautious and doubtful, nor to the Us we should expand the war before being
little less, execute wrath. Venture into a trance and endanger our life, and so my final opinion
is, we go out in the field, and must battle those who ahead.

And although the crowd of the enemy can be more certain than death victory, just cause to move
our arms, and the same value as the Turks defeated winners of the Greeks, can also give comfianza
to break his copious squadrons and bring down their battered eagles as their moons, and when
in this battle have been determined our view, be worthy of our glory that the last term of life
we ??find the sword in hand, and engaged in destruction and damage of such perfidious people.
Prevalió latter apparently in the votes of those who were consulted as the more soon, though
more dangerous, and more gallantry, but the power of Berenguer de Entenza, more so than Rocafort
did not result in the execution that was the most determined. And Ramon Montaner and says, that
the prayers of many reasons and not able to change his mind.

In this medium had notice that the Infante Don Sancho of Aragon had come with ten galleys King
of Sicily to Metellin and go to the archipelago, and more neighbors Gallipoli. Berenguer de
Entenza and the other captains then sent to Gallipoli came to beg, to take away the homage and
oath of loyalty to the King of Sicily. They urged their danger and Aragon discredit the name
if you do not give aid, subjects that had become so famous and so great. Don Sancho was then his
resolution given the desire of your property and conservation. Medellín left with ten galleys
and came to Gallipoli, where he was received with universal applause, thinking it would help
them to take complete satisfaction of their grievances, serving with some of the few supplies
and money they had, and no clear obligation to obey, all recognized
him by his head.

CHAPTER XXXI.

The ambassadors of our army's return to Constantinople by order of the Emperor were prisoners
and cruelly killed Rodesto City.

From our nation sent ambassadors to break the concerts had to Emperor, and made it to challenge,
with much danger came to Constantinople, and since, to the bailiff of Venice, and the power of
Genoa and of the Consuls of Anconitanos and Pisani, magistrates and
heads of these nations had treatment and communication in the Provinces
Empire, gave the following apparent.

Who knowing that by order of Emperor Anthrone, and their son Michael in Adrianople, and in other
places of the empire, they had slaughtered all the Aragonese and Catalans were found in them, both
soldiers and merchants, they live under your protection and protection for which the Catalans
and Aragonese satisfacion Gallipoli were determined to die, and who believed in both his faith
and word, they wanted break before the war, consisting, as speaking on behalf of all his nation
was Apart from the concerts and made alliances with the Emperor, and thus, the public instruments
from then on were invalid and of no value, and challenged him a traitor, and offered to defend
the field, a hundred to one hundred, or ten to ten, and waiting on God their swords would be
the instrument to punish his justice case as ugly as most of them violating the public faith, killing
foreigners who sought peaceful and careless in their land had been
cruel and disgraceful death, whom they had delivered it, defended
their provinces, killed their enemies, and enlarged his empire.

The insolence of the soldiers was not enough reason to run against
them as inhuman resolution.

Castigáranse As the soldiers blame their crimes, even though its services will serve to moderate
worthwhile.

Diéranles ships, and to return to his country, that punishment was enough to send without reward,
but no sex or age pardon by taking even innocent and guilty, ill and good, had been very cruel.