 The count could not remember that scene, which had been deeply impressed in his brain,
without tears crowded to her eyes. He had inherited from the exquisite delicacy of feeling, a susceptibility
that was becoming sick, no serenity, initiative, the unshakable firmness that enhanced the
soul of Colonel Field. The current Earl had an overly sensitive and gentle temperament, background,
honesty and shame it was the moral heritage of the Country. But these qualities are offset by one
character weak, great, gloomy, which come to him, no doubt, from the family of his mother.

Ms María Gayoso, widow Countess de Onis, daughter of baron Oscos was an original being, exceptionally
so original that bordered on the unbelievable. In his entire family, from three or four generations
to her at least, had noted something bizarre in some of its members played on the edge of insanity
and other entered fully inside. His grandfather atheist had been an inveterate supporter of Voltaire
and the Encyclopedia that last minute had given to drunkenness, according to the town council
was dragged by one day demons to hell. Actually died of spontaneous combustion, which could
to fuel like fable. His father was a fool to whom her mother, a woman of unusual energy, had
always enslaved to degradation. Of his uncles, one stood in the asylum, another was very remarkable
mathematician, but as eccentric in his oddities were kept as a source of anecdotes Lancia funny,
another went into the village, married a farmer and was killed by force of spirit. He had only one
brother, the current baron Oscos. It was also an original and eccentric. At the start of the civil
war went to the side of the Pretender and joined his army, but provided to serve as a private. The whole
campaign was in this way. It was not possible more effort that it put the magnates who surrounded
D. Carlos and the king himself, forcing to accept the official's office. He was wounded several
times and one of them so badly, in the face, that he got a deep scar. As his face was the most unfortunate
and that could be seen, winding path that ended Colorado to lend a monstrous appearance and
even feared.

He was younger than his sister Mary.

Not yet reached their fifties. Lived celibate and single in the manor that had on the street
Oscos Well, nothing great indeed. He was rarely at home of his sister, not dislike, but retracted
it and its rough genius. Leaving little house, especially during the day. Had few and friends.
The most intimate of all Only you can say they enjoyed their privacy, a friar exclaustrated, before
being ordained had served in the army as an officer. Fray Diego was its constant companion. Baron,
for his somber, his eccentricities, and especially so frightening of his face, inspired fear
among the population overall. The children felt in their presence a panic. Parents and babysitters,
to reduce them to obedience, threatened them with him - I'm going to tell the Baron! - Here
comes the Baron! - Today I saw the Baron and asked if you were obedient, etc. And the baron,
for his action, always bland, so harsh and loud voice and the suddenness with which he used
to speak, was for the innocent creatures a true ogre. He was always armed with a pair of pistols,
the Rapier his staff was a real sword. It said it had fired on a raised only because had opened
a letter, and that on several occasions had taken the children who dared to make faces on the
street, put them in the barn, stripped and whipped brutally brake with the straps of his horse.
Real or invented these stories, contributed to credit from Lancia child element as a monster of
ferocity which had to flee, if the tremor of the legs so spoiled.

One of the things that helped to instill terror in the small and a certain respect, not without
fear, in large, was the horse that the Baron had, a fiery eye horse
genius and fierce and furious and no one dared to ride him more than
he and his friend Fray Diego, had served in the cavalry.

To remove a drink that always had the right, and yet Gross was the indomitable pulling leaps
and kicks, putting bystanders in shock. When Baron was riding, and bucking and giving arms rising
out of the house, the street is Thrilled residents leaned out windows, children took refuge in
the skirts of their mothers, centaur looked astonished that all afraid. Really the baron in
such Oscos time, his face disfigured, his eyes fierce, big mustaches spliced ??with whiskers,
stubby and bristling, and the formidable torso hit the horse, was a figure that instilled fear. Had
to go back to fantasy to the irruption of the barbarians find something similar. Neither Alaric
and Attila and Odoacer had to have ugly and ominous aspect or produce more grim. Judge yourself
the effect would cause between neighbors when a timid season gave him ride out after midnight
and through the streets of the city accompanied by a servant, also gentleman in another horse.

La
Comtesse de Onis was in a kind of sex so outlandish, at least, as his brother. Short, plump, round
face, pale and dead black eyes, hair stuck to temples with quince paste, always dressed in purple habits
of the Nazarene. Lived secluded in his palace as a nun in the convent. Delivered living in absolute
devotion but devotion to a whimsical, fantastic, nothing like the real souls who practice mystical.
All his life he had shown signs of an eccentric humor, but since
the death of Count had ruled that both could well be his eccentricities
as hobbies, not the slightest.

As a young man had shown a very modest nature of its exaggeration verging on the ridiculous. Her
friends teased quite often affecting some freedom of speech. As castísimos were the ears of
the maiden of the Oscos, the English seem a miss those of a sergeant at his side. I could not
bear that his brother's underwear was in marriage with it when the washer on wearing or carrying.
If that gave him pants to sew a button he was doing as he ran to his room and wash hands thoroughly, and
even tell them was put a few drops of holy water. Apretábase the breast to hurting yourself up
the collar of the dress against the requirements of fashion, not moved around but a dark shirt,
and when the gloves did not ever shook hands with a man. The story of their marriage was truly curious,
full of comic incidents that repeated for a long time in the city. About everything that happened
on the first night boyfriends, real or invented, it was very funny and worthy of inclusion in a novel
by Paul de Kok

During the marriage, the virtue of chastity templose a bit. It almost seems to say excused. But when
she was widowed again flare up markedly. Especially in the past years acquired the appearance
of madness. When praying the rosary, which was twice a day, sent previously raised to divert to
roost for the duration, the cock of the hens; then ordered separate spoons and forks and brackets
males and females. Finally, was placed in a window on the front side of the house to prevent
none pee in the corner where they used to passersby. One day came the coachman to say that one
of the mares were in heat. Both are angry that, having fought sharply
for daring to notify such nastiness, sent immediately sell it.

A After the groom surprised giving a kiss to the cook got sick of disgust. Both came out of the
house immediately.

He liked, however, be gathering in the early hours of the night, but only clerics. I used to
sit in a chair, before which, intentionally or not, probably with intent, two chairs placed so
that seemed to be behind a fence. Shortly after Priests enter and encourage conversation,
the countess slept soundly, and was well until nine in the robes were leaving, of course, without
shaking hands. As the house had a chapel, leaving very few times, and those by car. He kept all
the gold that came into his hands, the most secret places in the attic or the garden. Sometimes
by this greed, or more properly by this mania for magpie, the house was in real trouble: agreed
to let his son asked to borrow some quantities before digging the
pelucones.

He was also greedy, very greedy, could eat candy without a source of hints indigestion. But there
had to be made by the nuns: for strange contradiction with their pious inclinations, I hated everything
smelled convent.

As for this woman bizarre, we can say crazy, educated the present Count de Onis. His character
suffered a lot. To counteract this excessive sensitivity, that weak and vacillating temperament
and great, dark humor that was sometimes sad samples would have required a manly outdoor education,
teacher and intelligent energetic awakening in your body know the spirit and the resolution
of the Country. Happened Otherwise unfortunately. The countess insisted that race should not go
after him depart Lancia. Therefore considered a college town in the career of law, which is the
layer with the rich kids hide their idle purpose of life. While it lasted, and completed long
after the countess was subject to his authority in a way that ridiculous.

Never leaving home without permission, did not smoke in their presence, gathered at dusk, praying
the rosary, confesábase when she ordered. As his body was developed prodigiously, was transformed
into a bizarre and athletic young man, his spirit still so childish and submissive as if it never
happened ten years. In this life withdrawn and agravose the native effeminate timidity of his
character, his delicate sensibilities became sick, shady and suspicious genius. And the most
unfortunate was that, without being a louver, was endowed of clear intelligence and possessed
a common penetration reserved and timid men. Illustration and lacked experience, but knew how
to keep a conversation discreetly and is not escaped the defects of others. Like almost all
weaklings, enjoyed a sometimes viciously at their expense. Vengeance is for people but not making
those I have too vigorous and spontaneous. However, these bursts of irony and malignancy it
was not common. Appeared more like a young conservative, quiet, melancholy of courtesy and chivalrous,
sensitive heart, full of affection and respect for his mother.

After the race had ended their hopes and even projects Lancia leave, to go the court, to travel for
some time. Enough, however, the countess's refusal to contain him and make him desist. Continued,
then, his life of leisure, the more so since no had an obligation to look even occasionally books
of jurisprudence.

Only by engaging in entertaining the growing seasons of certain crafts, and the romantic reading
of the works then in vogue. It was clever carpenter, not as his father, then gave him the watch.
Recently took a liking to farm work and leisure he owned in the vicinity of the village and
began to improve markedly.

Denominábase Farm: Dist little over two miles Lancia had a big old house, ramshackle: behind
her a beautiful forest of oak and large front and fertile prairies. Began to go every afternoon
after lunch, raised cattle and some horses, planted trees opened up channels and fences. At
home barely touched. In this new hobby won His body, which became
harder and more agile, and his character.

Melancholia, that both tormented him, it was tuning, serenose his mind was becoming more firmly
in the treatment people and more security for itself and certain disclosures of black humor,
rage and despair that no cause of rare rushing him and made him appear strange to the servants
as an epileptic, disappeared. Thus came to twenty-eight, he began to frequent the house of Quiñones,
and his life underwent profound transformation.

It was nine o'clock in the morning when the servant awoke from a restless sleep, incomplete, for
deliver a letter. He dropped with affected indifference on the night table, but then that the
servant was hastened to pick it up and opened it with visible excitement. Although it was already
nearly two years lasting relationships with Amalia, never opened this letter without His hands
shook. Truth, they wrote very few times. But the rarity of cards certainly helped troubled about the
deep love in her sensitive nature timid had taken root.

"This afternoon at three o'clock. On the podium, "said the letter
only.

His embarrassment did not dissipate completely. Appointments as it was extremely dangerous, causing
him, amid happiness, a sense of fear that it could not overcome. Amalia had asked that the deleted;
but paid no attention whatsoever. And he felt totally unable to oppose his will. Spent the
morning nervous, upset. To calm gave a ride, got to the Farm; but returned after the unrest
that had left it.

When the appointed time came he left home and took the street of locksmiths.

It was the hour that is just a bystander. Lancia neighbors usually eat both. At three are therefore
desktop or resting. At the end of Locksmith, at the corner of the street Santa Lucia, is the
Church of San Rafael, which has its main entrance on it. The Earl entered the temple after taking holy
water, as that will make their prayers. Was entirely alone, or so it seemed at first glance. A few
minutes and his eyes accustomed to darkness, he saw two or three scattered parcels for him and
prostrate in prayer.

He also knelt in the dark, near the small door of the staircase leading to the rostrum of
Quiñones, and pretended to pray for a moment. That he hated deeply. It was a sincere believer
and a pious and strict upbringing that he had was horrified to such sacrilege. It had hit the
fanaticism of his mother, had a deathly afraid of hell. Amalia also was a believer and even
passed on by pious people; belonged to various guilds, was protective of some homes, made frequent
gifts images and was seen accompanied by clerics. But looking at this defilement with the highest
indifference. Religion was for her something very respectable, but his will still respectable and its
pleasures.

After a few minutes the count got up gingerly and pulled the little door, a anticipatory hand
had already begun to advance. Turned to go and climbed the stairs very narrow spiral. The small
gallery of the house Quiñones was even darker than the church. Sought groping the door of the passage
and pushed, but as he was closing windows and could see from the street, began to crawl to
get through. On the door leading to the house was Jacob expected. She was a woman over fifty years,
obese, with a huge belly, moving with difficulty, panting breathing, dull and fat and always talking
falsetto voice.

The sum option, the true embodiment of stealth. Never had another confidant, nobody in the
world than she was aware of his love, and in the course of them had served them prodigiously, was
his guard, his savior on many occasions your guardian angel forever. There was a servant of the
house, but Mrs. protected. We spent to run the kinds of stores to bring them to the houses, thus
earning very small commission. This was not enough to live even though it was her own and a niece.
But he made several houses orders of various kinds and helped in countless ways. Especially Mrs.
Quiñones had found a protective determined. When it became his confidant may be said found a
mine. Amalia generously paid services, in fact, well deserved extraordinary reward.

The party wall held his finger to his lips silently recommending the count, so he crossed the door.
Excused for a good recommendation, because even breathing was holding not to make noise. Then,
going a bit to explore the terrain, he motioned for to follow. They walked through a corridor, they
passed the main staircase without up for it in fear of meeting a servant, and went to look for the
library a ladder that there was excused to go to the second. The count proceeded on tiptoe palpipante
the heart. Although he had penetrated other times in that house Quiñones Thus, he always seemed
the height of recklessness and cursing inside Dare and indifference of her lover. They came at last
to the case of the lady.

The door opened without anyone saw. Jacoba pushed gently to the count, leaving her out. The labor
Amalia, who suddenly appeared, shut, and suddenly, with snatched Furthermore, I arms around your
loved and kissed him with passionate tenderness. He, embarrassed, agitated yet the rise and
trembling, stood still, without responding to such events affection. The lady tapped her motherly
to the palm on the cheek.

- Be calm, easy chair, that nobody will come here.

Luis made an effort to smile and dropped in a blue satin lined marquise.

Amalia's cabinet for its luxury coquetón contrasted with the abandonment that reigned in the
rest of the house. Tapestry-covered walls superb, the best of the collection that family owned,
brand new furniture, Louis XV, brought from Madrid to the beautiful bed ebony inlaid with ivory,
which was at the bedroom, in the first months of marriage, when D.
Pedro was trying in vain to win the heart of his young wife.

Breathed there an atmosphere scented, sensual, refined tastes denouncing
the stranger lady brought there from other lands to the severe mansion
Quiñones.

He sat on the knees of the count, and tugging at his beard, said holding back hard penalties
cries, with a repressed joy shone in his eyes, exploding in every pore:

- See? Do you see it as we won? Do you see how they overcame all these obstacles you heaped on
the head and not let you see clearly? There was no need more than a little boldness and God help
us.

- God - "murmured the count shudder.

She felt she had done wrong in appealing to the divinity, and hastened to say nonchalantly:

- I meant the fate ... Now do not start to get tiresome and sad ...
This is a time of happiness for us ... I'm playing and I can not believe
... My daughter, my daughter love, living with me and can see her
and kiss her all the time ... How beautiful!

... No I contemplate my taste until this morning, but today I sated
well ... It looks like you ... especially this part up here, between
the eyebrows.

Jacoba said that the mouth is mine ... I do not regret - smiling
coyly added .-- Another thing worse could get from me, right?

- For
me, everything is just beautiful.

- Come on - the lady exclaimed,
leaning back and stabbing him with a look of affectionate mockery
.-- At 've finally recovered the use of the word ... Well - said in
a serious tone - you do not know the laps that we had to give this
morning to look for mother.

I have brought three. No I liked it. Finally the fourth stayed. And what Linda began to suck my
angel! I had trouble not jumping for joy ... As it costs me now! ... But let's be serious ...
we are serious and tiresome as the count ... Tell me, annoying, how you've managed to bring?
Tell me. Which side were you last night to open the door of the room!

- The thing with good reason. At nine I went to look at Jacob's house.
Have told you so it.

I spent about two hours there.

And as if the devil would mortify the creature screamed on ...

- Yes, yes, I know all that ... And then?

- What a night! The showers were repeated endlessly. The streets were lost, mostly for those
missing quarters. Roll up my pants almost to the knee, because How would I get bedraggled in your
living room? I wanted to hold the basket in one arm and carrying
an open umbrella in the other hand.

It was impossible. A few steps I turned and Jacoba left the umbrella. What pilgrimage, good heavens!
What anguish! The wind down every moment the fold of the layer, the rain whipped my face and I
entered through the neck.

I was afraid the girl get wet.

Besides fearing would slip. Imagine if I fall in that time! The wind was blowing so hard sometimes
that I could take a step. Well believe me I was tempted to turn around and leave it for another
day.

- I believe without it I swear. Too know that you drown in a bowl of water.

He gave her a long, sad look of reproach. Amalia burst out laughing and embracing and kissing
her with effusion, said:

- Never mind, poor thing. Do you think you no pity? The trance was
very hard.

Te has behaved like a hero.

The count, under the weight of those compliments, blushed. Shouted awareness that not deserved.
He remembered the terrible ordeal that had just Amalia, and said:

-
You do, you do that you should have to suffer!

How are you? It was a reckless lower as soon as the ladder.

- Oh! Although I seem weak, I am a rock.

- Well you've shown.

Having such tremendous pain without uttering even a complaint!

- What do you know about this pain, stupid? - Said putting a hand
in the mouth .-- Have you given birth ever?

- After only four days
in bed - Young continued that hand gently separating and kissing at
the same time - and the fifth down the hall.

- Well, you see that
I have not happened.

Oh, if it came down yesterday, fixed Quiñones send me a doctor! Since the second day was determined
to come up ... But do not you know? He is in love, crazy for the
girl.

All morning he had the nurse in his room.