 My
long journey through the philosophical world has made me conclude that all that is away of this
teaching of "Angel of the Schools" is equal to mislead the understanding, with much danger of falling
headlong into heresy.

Ramiro shook his head affirmatively without understanding, and looking
towards the folios was that they all bore the same title: Summa Theologica,
in ancient letters fat.

- This work, this monument, this tent - went
the canon - resume also tested and purified, it is true, in the crucible
of St. Thomas, all knowledge of Aristotle, but, to form yourselves
in the worship of that other admirable philosopher and defend you
against certain ideas that run like fever in the classrooms, I read
agora, vestibulum guise of a booklet I just write against Pedro Pomponacio
and some Spanish, following the uniqueness Afrodiseo Alexander's claim
that Aristotle felt and wrote that the rational soul dies with the
body.

By first removing the snuffer that marked the page, took up a book table manuscript. Then he
sat down next to the candlestick, callose glasses and began reading his apology Peripatetic.

Ramiro could not hide his confusion. His face clearly denoted vertigo.

- Do not mind - he said the canon at the end - if not the first time you have just caught the meaning.
Tomorrow will be read disclaimer.

Was trilingual college in Salamanca, after studying arts and theology.

There was perhaps in Spain another Lectoral it and to the Holy Scripture. Their explanations Old
and New Testament, every Monday and Friday, the church attracted
the most learned lay of the city and many students of the monasteries.

And what controversialist! None Cabildo of his colleagues could follow through their prime and secondary,
its ergos and distinctions. Took the proposal of the opponent, and in a trice, with outrageous
smile The hash is made under that cisoria art of the dialectic of amazing that he managed way, but
if dropping its conclusion was not declared vanquished opponent Tornabe to the early offensive
and scathing, lip twitched it out, his eyes swollen cholera, and was known to the hand, he
dropped the blessing from the altar, had sheepskin collar of more than one church.

While not equipped with a precise and penetrating philosophical standpoint, if he could not these
flaps of the spirit that shake the web of the routine, the theological concept was the strength
of a rock. Who were the builders of the doctrine he professed? Aristotle, the Fathers of the
Latin Church, St. Thomas.

To think that a modern man could amend those teachers was sublime dementia. What was the philosophical
belief on which Spain was founded by their envied greatness? One, not other ... Ergo! But he
knew too the hidden purpose of the new doctrines, and as for those who fought in Spain the
principles of the Scholastics, who denied the authority of the old masters intelligible species,
the ghosts of representation and to the immortality of the soul rational, but they were not allies
abroad or instruments of the devil.

He saw to Spain haunted by innumerable enemies. Since it was not possible to defeat it in war
frank and manly, now were looking to undermine that unity which made her invulnerable religious
introduced in the dispute within the sect and disorder.

Their faith was hurt in sick vigor. The heresy was more frightening than all the armies. The heresy
was the realgar that once in the entrails, was wrecked the firmest fortitude, and, according
to him, and the tósigo was partly sucked. Valladolid was a focus of Lutherans. Salamanca, a
seminar of heretics. The followers of Valdes and Ramus, the followers of Erasmus and Luther were
Asaz numerous. His former classmate Francisco Sanchez, Brocense, cast a curse against dirty
St. Thomas, when he invoked his sublime authority in disputes. The Cardinal Archbishop Toledo, Bartolomé
Carranza, luteranizaba in Christian Catechism. He had, therefore, that supreme moment when a
battle is lost by a break of the will. It was not the case to discuss proposals, but to extirpate
the roots of those boils and scarred provided with the cleansing fire.