 A
child, after praying the Trisagion, said in protest: "It annoys me so much Kirileson (Kyrie Eleison)."
His mother then punished him by making fun of God. Another boy came up with Qui Tolis call a dog corrects
her aunt saying, "I never put the name of God to an animal."

Array of magical invocations This is a veritable arsenal of magical
invocations, whose effectiveness is hoped to prevent evil, free from
danger, make a good, achieving grace.

As an example of the virtue of the pleas and what can be achieved with often just say Jesus,
Mary, Joseph, who is the "Holy Trinity of the Earth," are the following cases: (Ninth of Jesus,
Mary and Joseph. Manila, 1903). A man of bad life going on through the night in front of a church in
San Francisco in Cuzco, Peru, saw lights in the cemetery and, realizing that it was a funeral, went
to the scene to witness. Suddenly he perceived that there was a throne on which Jesus was seated between
Mary and Joseph. Then along came many demons each with his book in his hand. One of them began their case
against a woman of evil life of Buenos Aires. "Jesus says the ninth, she spoke out against the death
sentence along with sudden and eternal damnation." (P. 7.) Missing the devil to go to execute
the sentence. Another demon read his book that in Chile there was another prostitute. "Jesus
spoke against her death sentence and conviction." (P. 8.) The devil ran to serve his sentence.
It presented another man accused of carrying a bad life in Cuzco, and this was precisely the same
man who stopped to witness the spectacle of the cemetery. "By going the just judge to pronounce
against him the sentence of death and damnation, Mary and Saint Joseph knelt before the Divine
Master asking for it, claiming he had often relied on their most holy name calling thereunder * *
*. " Having denied Jesus for forgiveness, begging his parents again, and seeing that failed
to soften for forgiveness, the Blessed Virgin showed his Holy Son breasts that had suckled, and
the Holy Patriarch hands showed that his work he had sustained. "(p. 8.) Jesus then pardoned by a grace
that can only be called stomach grateful. Great incentive for crime!