 If
she could not instill the idea of ??forgiveness, if his memory was ineffective, the fault was entirely
of that man.

In the early days, candle plant had not even raised the moral issue at that time increased his torment.
But when the first momentum of the pain began to subside naturally, as he had to get used to
so fatal to the idea of ??death as all the forces of his soul were concentrated to collect,
to guard, to immortalize the memory of being that had moved away never to return, his mind
began to point the reflection of whether the death that would blend of blind hatred and his
desire for revenge. At the instant the bullet across his murderous meats, closed his eyes to
the light, had appeared in your brain in the shadow of a reproach? Could it have been the last
thought reprehensible your life?

When candle plant is making these questions, the answer was not for
him doubtful: the deceased had forgiven.

And he should he, in turn, to forgive? If I wanted to be worthy of it, ought not to follow their example?
...

Sometimes she closed her eyes and leaned her forehead, invaded by memories of their good instruction,
almost ashamed to have forgotten for a moment. Sometimes rebelled: life can not wholly of love!
If evil is opposed to the pardon, what is the prize right? ... But then came to his mind the words
of his beloved: "If forgiveness is not given to evil, if he also opposes evil, where is the good when
you applied? "She also said you have to love justice, but this alone is not enough in life.
Since creatures human sin are too weak even when they have foreknowledge of their sins, it is
necessary be lenient with the sum too large for their mistakes.

"Justice is not forgiving is just !...» he had replied, and she: "Justice is powerless strict:
only goodness can overcome evil. "

He had nodded. Why had she consented? Had not been truthful at that time? And if truly had reason,
if no ulterior motive had received his word, ought not forgiving
in that trance?

By not forgiving was because then I had not been sincere, had pretended to earn it, to overcome
it! What should accuse him of hypocrisy last or weakness present?

That question came to believe that the truth is not always the same, that the contrasts of life
put man in opposition to itself without being able to impute bad faith. No, there was no lied to
recognize that goodness is necessary: ??not showing, only to recall his preaching of forgiveness,
he'd understand? But how to accept it when his reason, his passion, his whole being wanted and
would necessarily want the punishment? Then I heard the following
words, as clearly and as firm as when she had uttered the "Truth is
one: recognize it at all is worth little, and it is not worthwhile
if you do not assert against our own interests ... 