 She shamelessly
accepted them as a matter of course. Another day took him to church Groom packet of letters
she had for the read. Later he asked the scapular necks, and both urged and argued such pretexts,
which concluded by get it. The next day he confessed, smiling, that was not to put it to a
friend who had just died, but to bring her on the chest. These things hurt and disturbed vaguely
young priest. The little jokes which Blessed be allowed to speak also exceeded sometimes desirable
ranges. One day he said suddenly:

- Do you know what I'm thinking, father? The angel who comes often to get the hand on the head's
eyes are very similar to yours.

And burst out laughing as he said.

The cleric also laughed, blushing. Then it was serious and moody.

A strange incident, which shocked the town, came in an indirect way to further strengthen and disturb
their relationship to P. Gil. One night he woke up terrified by the noise of a detonation inside
the house. Jumped up and ran to the room D. Miguel, where he figured he had come. To reach it froze
in terror at the scene which appeared in sight. A man rolled in the middle of the room in a pool
of blood, while D. Michael, standing on the bed, waving a pistol shouting triumphant smile fierce
- I dropped one!

I dropped one! - The dim light of a candle lit lying on the floor that fateful scene.

The case had been that, being the priest in bed, a man had entered her bedroom, had awakened and
summoned him to give you the money. D. Miguel threw undeterred hand to the vest, took the key and threw
it into the middle of the room. Then, as the thief picked it up, took one of the guns under
the bed and had shot him leaving tended. The bullet had penetrated
through the kidneys.

The toilet, dominating his fright, quick to give spiritual aid. It only took three hours to
expire.

The event is said a lot and very different way in the village. Some approved of the conduct the
cure. Was entitled to defend itself from an outlaw that God knows what would after stealing it. Others,
again, sharply censured. A priest can not work like others in this case. Is a minister of Jesus
Christ and must always act with charity even in self-defense. Fr Gil was deeply shocked, but
kept silent. A priest, before his hands bloodied, was not only to be robbed, but to kill. Our
Lord had taught so when St. Peter cut the ear of the soldier who
came to arrest him.

Obdulia transpired the feelings that agitated him and advised him to leave the rectory and settled
in another house.

- You can no longer live there after what happened, Father. The scare has led been very strong,
and every day has to be renewed the impression viewing the site.

This was not exactly what he meant, but a truly Christian man virtuous living must suffer many things
beside who had just violent death a fellow. But if he did not say with words, was left to guess
at the seriousness and sadness of their continent. Fr Gil longed for a long time otherwise. The
company's pastor I was upset, as we know. Now, after the murder (as he described their conscience)
it had become unbearable. D. Michael had incurred the censure of the Church, he withdrew licenses
for confession and say Mass: the rehabilitation would arrive a season.

Taking advantage of those moments of terrible weakness of the priest, with the help of her
godmother rented a house not far from the church and moved to it. A former Ms Eloisa maid came
to serve and be his housekeeper.

Freed from fear of the pastor, Obdulia began to frequent the new home of Excuses carry on high
surveillance. Enterábase of linen, robes of state, of the foods that most pleased the father,
of the peculiarities of his bed. Sometimes came to help the ironing board ironing or wearing
for those things at home more sensitive as the dawns and rochets,
recosía stockings that were broken, stains removed cassocks, etc..
These were ordinary tasks. But also engaged in some work thinner,
in embroidering a little master, or a body or any other article of
clothing priesthood