 

The pattern changed course. It was useless to resist the sea that enemy that was with smoke and
spit bullets. A land, and that was what God wanted!

We were facing Torresalinas. We were all here and we had friends. The gunboat, seeing due to
land, no more shots. We had caught, and assured of success and Progress not extreme. People
who were on this beach to see us soon, and the news circulated throughout
the village.

The Socarrao pursued by a gunboat was coming!

We had to see what happened. A true revolution: believe me, sir. Middle Village was a relative
of ours, and others ate more or less directly from the business. This beach seemed an anthill.
Men, women, and children with anxious eyes followed us, shouting
satisfaction to see how our boat, making a last effort, came forward
each Again his pursuer, bringing half hour ahead.

Even the mayor was here, to serve on what was good.

And the police, excellent boys who live among us and are almost family, hacíanse aside, understanding
the situation and not wanting to miss a few poor.

- To earth, boys - screaming our pattern -. Let's run aground. What matters is to in bundles
and save people. The Socarrao already know this evil out of step.

And cloth unfolded almost rammed the beach, digging the bow into the sand. Lord, what way of working!
Still seems like a dream when I remember. The whole town was thrown on boat, took by assault:
the youngsters like mice slipped into the cove.

- Quick! Quick! What are the government!

Packages jumped from the roof: they fell into the water, where men
gathered barefoot and women with the skirt between the legs, some
disappearing around here, others were on there, was something seen
and unseen, and soon disappeared while loading, as if he had swallowed
sand.

A wave of flooding to snuff Torresalinas, seeping into every home.

The mayor intervened paternally.

- Men, too - said the pattern -. Have it all, and the police complain. Leave at least some packages
in order to justify apprehension.

Our master was satisfied.

- Well: do a few packages with two bundles of the worst sting. To
be content with that.

And he went into town, taking in the chest all the documents of the boat. But even stopped for
a moment, because that devil of a man was in everything.

- The sheets! Delete pages!

It seemed that the boat had left legs.

Was out of the water and dragged by sand in the middle of that crowd seethed and work, animated
with happy cries.

- What a disappointment! What a disappointment will be the government!

The companion of the broken leg was carried aloft by his wife and
mother.

The poor man groaned of sharp pain with every movement, but swallowed the tears and laughed too
as the others, seeing that the cargo was saved and thinking of that disappointment which made
everyone laugh.

When the last bales were lost in the streets of Torresalinas began the plunder of the boat.
The crowd took the sails, anchors, oars, to dismantle the mast, was loaded on the shoulders
of a crowd of boys, leading him in procession to the other end of people. The boat was made
a pontoon, as bare as you see it.

Meanwhile, the shipwrights, brush in hand, he paints he paints. The Socarrao is disfigured
Roma as a donkey. With four strokes was erased the name of stern and folios the sides of those
damn signs, which are the charter of any vessel, was not trace.

The striker dropped anchor at the same time disappearing into the
edge of town the past remains of the boat.

I stood on this site, wanting to see everything, and more openly helped some friends who were
putting to sea a fishing boat.

The striker sent an armed boat, and jumped to the ground do not know
how many men with a rifle and bayonet.

The boatswain, who was leading, swore furiously looking at the Socarrao and carabinieri, who
had seized him.

Torresalinas entire neighborhood laughed at that hour, celebrating
the disappointment, and even had laughed more, seeing as I, the face
that put those people to find all cargo a few packages of snuff bad.

-
What happened next? - Asked the old man -.

Do not punish anybody?

- Who?

Could only punish the poor Socarrao, which was taken. Is dirty lot of paper and half the town
was to testify, but nobody knew anything. What was the enrollment boat? Silence, no one had seen the
folios. About the manned? Some men the beach had run inland. And nobody knew more.

- And the cargo? "- I said.

- I completely sold. You do not know what poverty is. When stranded, each grabbed the bundle
that was at hand and ran to hide at home.

But the day were all available following the pattern: not lost even a pound of snuff. The
exposing the bread of life and every day you see the face of death, are freer temptations than
others ...

- Since then - continued the old man - who is here imprisoned Socarrao poor. But do not take
in going to sea with his old master. Seems to have completed paperwork, bring him out to auction
and it will be the pattern for what you want to.

- What if another more?

- Who has to be that? Are we outlaws? All the people know who the real master of the ship abandoned,
and nobody has so badly hurt heart to try. Here much honesty. To each what is his: the sea, which
is of God, to us poor, we have to remove the bread from him, but does not want the government.

The
dummy

Nine years had passed since Louis Santurce was separated from his wife. After he had been involved
in silk and tulle at the bottom of elegant carriage, passing before him in a flash beauty, or had
guessed from the paradise of Real, down there in a box, surrounded of men who were fighting the
murmuring something in her ear to show off an intimacy smiling.

These events removed in all the sediment of the last wrath had fled forever his wife as a patient
who fears the resurgence of their ailments, and yet, now would to meet, to see it and speak
it at the hotel de la Castellana, which was insolent luxury the witness of his disgrace.

The rough movements rental car seemed to blow past memories from all
corners of his memory.

That life did not want to remember, was developing with your eyes closed: their honeymoon modest
employee married to a beautiful woman, educated, daughter of a family fallen on hard times,
the joy of that first year of poverty sweetened by affection, then tossing Enriqueta protests against
the narrowness, the deaf displeasure at being called beautiful by all and be humbly dressed,
the troubles emerging for the slightest reason, the brawls at midnight in the marital bedroom,
the gnawing suspicion Gradually confidence husband, and suddenly the unexpected rise, material
wealth slipping through the door, timidly at first, and avoiding
the scandal, then insolent display, as believing enter a world of
blind people, until they finally Louis had the unquestionable proof
of his misfortune.

He was ashamed to remember his weakness. It was not a coward was sure of it, but lacked the will
or loved him too, and therefore, when after an embarrassing intelligence was convinced of his
disgrace, he knew only raise the clenched hand that beautiful doll face pale, and ended up not strike
a blow. Only had the strength to throw the house and mourn as an abandoned child just closed the
door.

Then complete solitude, the monotony of isolation, interrupted by news that they hurt. His wife
was traveling through central Europe as a princess, a millionaire had released, this was their
very existence, for what he was born. A winter call attention in Paris, the newspapers talked
about the beautiful Spanish, and his triumphs on the beaches were
noisy fashion, tried to ruin an honor for her, and several duels and
certain rumors of suicide were around his name a legend environment.

After three year would be triumphant, returned to Madrid, its beauty enhanced by the strange
charm of cosmopolitanism. Now protect the richest businessman in Spain, and in his splendid
court ruled on a hotel only for men: ministers, bankers, political influence, characters of all
classes who sought his smile as the best of his decorations.

So great was his power, until Luis believed to feel around him, seeing that political situations
were happening without being touched their jobs. The fear to fight for the sustaining life
made him accept this situation, in which sensed the hidden hand Harriet.

Solo and sentenced to work for a living, I felt, however, the shame of wretch whose only claim
to be the husband of a beautiful woman. Was worthless running away when its path, insolent and
triumphant in his disgrace, to escape persecution those eyes that were fixed on him with surprise,
pride of women losing their coveted.

One day he received a visit from an old priest and timid-looking, the same who now sat with him
in the car. He was the confessor of his wife. Well had learned to choose! A man kind, short-sighted.
When you say who sent him, Luis could not contain himself: "Valiente such, 'and let the insult round.
But the good old imperturbable as he brings learned discourse and are afraid to forget if it
is slow release, he spoke of Magdalena sinful, the Lord that being who he was, had forgiven him
and passing to the plain style and natural, had transformation suffered by Harriet. I was
sick, barely out of his hotel, a disease that gnawed her womb, a
cancer that had to be tamed with continuous injections of morphine
for did not faint and roar of pain with his cruel scratches.

Misfortune had have turned their eyes to God repented of the past, wanted to see ...

And he, the cowardly man, jumped with joy on hearing this, weak with
satisfaction that is avenged.

A cancer! ... The luxury damn rotting inside her, making her die in life! And always so beautiful,
right? What sweet revenge! ... No, not go to see it. It was useless arguments that seek healing.
Could visit whenever he wanted and give news of his wife: that he was very happy and now understand
why men are bad.

Since then the priest visited him almost every evening, smoking a few cigars, speaking of Harriet,
and sometimes went out together, walking on the outskirts of Madrid old friends.

The disease progressed rapidly convinced that Harriet was going to
die.

Wanted him to beg his forgiveness, calling it a tone of whimsical and ill child requiring a
toy. To the other, the powerful protector, gentle disposition despite his omnipotence, he begged
the priest to take them to the hotel to the husband of Harriet. The good old man spoke with
fervor of the conversion touching the lady, although admitting that the cursed estate, loss
of so many souls, still dominated. Her illness was a prisoner in her home, but at times of
calm, when the rogue pain did not go back and forth like crazy, flipping through catalogs and figurines
in Paris, wrote to its suppliers there, and rare was the week that did not reach drawers with the
latest news: costumes, hats and jewelry, after targeted and hands a day in the closed room, fell
into the corners or hiding forever in closets, and useless toys. For all these fads going the
other, provided to see Harriet smiling.

These confidences were continuing to slowly penetrate Luis in the life of his wife was by far
the course of their disease and not a day passed without rozase with that mentally being, we had
departed forever.

A priest was later presented with unusual energy. This lady was in the past, we called aloud,
was a crime to deny the last consolation to a dying, and he does
not consented.

He felt able to take it by force. Luis, defeated by the will of the old, left Drag and got into a
car, mentally insulting, but no strength to back ... Coward! Coward forever!

In pursuit of the black cassock crossed the garden of the hotel many
times, going by the immediate walk, had spied with looks of hate ...
And now, nothing, no hate or pain: a strong sense curiosity, like
entering unknown country, savoring the wonders ahead he expects to
see.

Inside the hotel the same feeling of curiosity and wonder. Ah, wretch! How often in dreams of his
will impotent, was seen entering the house as a husband drama, gun in hand to kill his unfaithful
wife, and destroying afterwards, as a wild beast, expensive furniture,
rich draperies, fluffy carpet!

And now tenderness he felt under his feet, the beautiful colors by sliding his eyes, the flowers
that greeted him with her perfume from the corners, an intoxication causábanle eunuch and felt impulses
to lie in that furniture, to take possession, as if he belonged, being of his wife. Now he understood
what was wealth, and how hard hung over their slaves. Was already on the first floor, and had not
even seen, in the solemn quiet hotel, none of these details is revealed
in death as they enter a home.

Saw as impassive mask reared after thought he saw a gesture of insolent curiosity: a girl greeted
him with enigmatic smile, it was not known whether it was sympathy
or mockery "The husband of the lady", he believed distinguished in
an adjoining room a man who was hiding (Maybe it was the other), and
stunned by this new world, went through a door, gently pushed for
his guidance.

Was in the bedroom of the lady: a room engulfed in soft shadows, ripping a strip of sun filtering
through a balcony ajar.

In the midst of this beam of light was a straight woman, slender, pink, dressed in a beautiful
soirée dress, the pearly emerging from behind clouds of lace, and
chest and head with the dazzling sparkle of the jewels.

Luis back amazed, protesting the farce. "That was the sick? Had he been called to insult?

- Luis ... Luis !...-- groaned behind him a weak voice, with intonation and gentle child, reminding
him the past, the best moments of his life.

His eyes, already accustomed to the darkness, saw in the back of the room something monumental and
terrible as an altar, a bed stands, and which, under the undulating curtains, incorporating
work was a white figure.

Then he noticed the motionless woman, who seemed to wait with her slender stiff and his eyes of
vague look like blurred by tears.

It was a mannequin art bore some resemblance with Harriet. The best served to consider developments
that continuously received Paris.

It was the only actor in the representations of elegance and wealth that was given alone a remedy
for his illness.

- Luis ... Luis !...-- groaned again the little voice from the bottom
of the bed.

Sadly it was Luis to her to be grasped by arms that tightened convulsively
and feel a burning mouth seeking hers, imploring forgiveness, while
a cheek received the warm touch of tears.

- Say you forgive me, say
it, Luis, and I may not die.

And the husband, who instinctively tried to repel it, ended up throwing themselves into those arms,
unwittingly repeating the same loving words of the happy times. To his eyes, accustomed to the
darkness, was dialed with every detail of his wife's face.

- Luis, Luis mine! - She said smiling through tears -. How do I find? And I'm not as beautiful
as in our times of happiness ... when I still was not crazy. Tell me God! tell me what you look like.

Her
husband looked at her in amazement. Beautiful, always beautiful, her beauty and innocent child that
made it so scary. The death was not yet there: only between the soft perfume Sovereign of the
meat of this majestic bed, seemed to slip a subtle and distant mist
of dead, which gave away the rotting interior mixing in her kisses.

Luis divined the presence of someone behind him. A man was walking distance, contemplating with
a confused expression, as if drawn there by a superior boost to the will that he was ashamed. Harriet's
husband knew, on average nationwide, the stern face of that man and
entered years, a man of sound principles, great defender of public
morals.

- Tell him to go, Luis! - Cried the sick -.

What does that man there?

I just want you you ... I just want my husband. Forgive me ... was luxury, luxury damned: I needed
money, a lot of money, but love ... just you.

Cried Henrietta showing his repentance, and the man wept, weak and humble with contempt.

Luis, who had so often thought of him with fits of anger, and had been seeing him impulses to
throw around his neck, finally looking at him with sympathy and respect. We also loved her!
And the community on affection rather than repel, linking the husband and the other with sympathy
strange.

- Let him go, let her go - repeating the sick with a stubborn child.

And her husband watched the powerful man with pleading, as if asking forgiveness for his wife,
not knowing what he said.

- Come on, Mrs. Henrietta - said from the back of the room the voice of the priest -. Think
in herself and in God does not commit the sin of pride.

The two men, the husband and the guard, ended up sitting by the bedside of the sick. The pain was
roaring, we had to give frequent injections, and the two went solicitous their care. Several times
he stumbled his hands to incorporate Harriet, not separated instinctive revulsion, but rather,
helped with effusion fraternal.

Luis was increasingly sympathetic to that good man, so smooth treatment despite their million,
and that his wife was crying even more than him. At night, when the patient rested under the action
of morphine, the two men, imbued by that evening of suffering, talking quietly, but his words
seeming less remote hint of hatred. Were as brothers reconciled by love.

Harriet died at dawn repeating, "Sorry! Sorry! "But his last look was not for the husband. That
beautiful bird took wing brainless forever caressing with mannequin eyes eternal smile and glassy
eyes, the idol of the estate, which stood near hollow head balcony, on which, with infernal
glow, sparkling diamonds, wounded by the bluish light of dawn.

The paella "Roder"

It was a holiday for the district head of the sudden visit of the deputy, matron Madrid, so
powerful for those good people, who spoke of him as the Holy Providence.

There was great paella in the garden of the mayor, a gargantuan feast, entertained by the town band
and referred to all women and children, who peered curious behind the walls.

The flower of the district was there: the priests of four or five
villages, as the deputy was defender of order and sound principles,
the mayors and all that in times beadle choice trotting on the roads
bringing Don José minutes unscathed for blemished his white virginity
to monster figures.

Among the new gowns and party dresses smelling of camphor and the
folds of the ark stood out lenses majestic gold and black tuxedo deputy,
but despite all its pomposity, Providence district barely attracted
attention.

All eyes were for a man in corduroy trousers and black headscarf,
lean, tanned, strong jaws, and beside him a heavy shorty, not changing
without wearing seat behind him the old gun, which looked like a stick
of his body.

It was the famous Quico Baggins, the hero of the district, a thirty-year
Roder exploits the I looked at young people with almost superstitious
terror, recalling his childhood, when mothers told to hush, "Coming
Baggins!"

At twenty he knocked down two matters of love, and then
to mount with the shorty, to make Roder's life, the knight errant
of the mountains. More than forty processes were suspended, waiting
to be good enough to be caught. But was it good! Jumping like a goat
knew every corner of the mountain, was based on a coin shot in the
air, and the Guard civil, tired of fruitless wanderings, they will
cease to see.

Thief ... never. Knight had his outbursts, eating on
the mountain which gave him for admiration or fear of the farmhouses,
and if he was a thief in the district, soon reached your shorty, he
had his honesty and theft did not want to pay others. Blood ... yes,
even elbows. To him a man worth less than a stone path, this beast
used masterfully all sorts of killing the enemy with bullets, with
knife, face to face if they had guts to go after him, waiting and
ambushed, if they were so wary and cunning like him. Out of jealousy
had been suppressing the other roders who infested the mountains,
in the roads, one today and another tomorrow, had murdered former
enemies, and often fell to people on Sunday to leave lying on the
square, leaving the mass, mayors or influential owners.

And did not
bother him or chasing him. Political passion killed by men who barely
knew to ensure the triumph of Don José, eternal district representative.
The beast was without realizing it, a large polyp claw waving electoral
Far on the Ministry of the Interior.

He lived in a nearby village,
married to the woman who drove him to kill first, surrounded of children,
paternal, benevolent and smoking cigars with the Civil Guard, who
obeyed orders higher as a result of an exploit had to pretend to be
chasing him, he spent some days hunting in the mountains, good pulse
entertaining shooter.

We had to see how he cared for the gifted,
and notable district paella. "Baggins this piece of chicken; Baggins,
a drink of wine. " And even the priests, laughing with a ho ho! bondadosote,
patted him on the back, saying paternally: "Oh Bolsonet, how bad you
are!"

He was held by that party. Only because he had stopped at the
head of the district Jose majestic on his way to Valencia. I wanted
to reassure and to cease in their complaints, increasingly alarming.

As
a reward for their abuses in the elections, had promised him a pardon,
and Baggins he was old and longed to live peacefully as a farmer honored,
obeyed the Lord Almighty believing in his rudeness that every outrage,
every crime, accelerating their forgiveness