 The daughter of this mother of the child, and one that stayed home sick one neighbor,
had died two days' misery, lady, tired of so much suffering laying the gofes in search of
a medium muffin. " What did it now with two kids, not having to keep if for himself did not
draw? The Lord had his hand stopped. No saint in heaven and damned if he did. Wanted no more
to die, and to bury soon, soon, to stop seeing the world. His only aspiration was to leave worldly
colocaditas the two girls in a arrecogimiento of many that are for infants of both sexes. And
in order to see his evil shadow! ... He had found a kind soul, a man ecclesiastical who offered
the girls put in an asylum, but when I thought I had managed the business, the devil came to break
it down ... "You see, Madam, do you know a man by chance very priest showed up called D. Romualdo?

-
I think so - said the beggar, again feeling a lot of confusion or dizziness in head.

- Tall, well built, habits of fine cloth, or old or young.

- He says that is called D. Romualdo?

- D. Romualdo, yes ma'am.

- Will ... by chance, one that has a niece
named Doña Patros?

- I do not know how to call, but niece is ...
and pretty.

Well, you see my dog ??lucky. Was in me, yesterday afternoon, right.

I'm going home, and tell me that he had gone to Guadalajara.

- Just ...-- Benina said, more confused, feeling that the real and imaginary scrambling and intertwined
in the brain -. But soon will come.

- I wonder if he returns. "

Then the old man said to be dying of hunger had not entered his mouth, in three days, more than
a piece of raw cod that occurred in a shop, and some of corruscos bread, dipped in the fountain
to soften them, because they had no bone in the mouth. From San Jose Day that took the soup
in the Sacred Heart, there was no remedy for it; defense was nowhere, the sky did not like him,
nor the earth either. Eighty and two years old on February 3, San Blas blessed, a day after the
Candelaria, why what I wanted to live or what had been lost here? A man who served the King twelve
years that for forty-five had been stung thousands of thousands of tons of stone on these roads
of God, and that was always well regarded and puntoso, had nothing to do and, more to entrust
the gravedigger who put a lot of land, much land over, and pack it. In quantitative placed
the two creatures, would lie not rise until the day of Judgement in the afternoon ... And rise last!
Pierced with grief upon hearing the reference Benina so much misfortune, whose sincerity could
not put into question, said the old man to take her to where the child was ill, and soon was
conducted to a room dark, on the ground floor Large house corridor, where they lived together,
for the payment of three pesetas a month, average dozen beggars with their offspring. Most of these
complained bitterly at the time in Madrid, looking for the holy bitch. Benina saw only an old, petiseca
and sleepy, it seemed drunk, and a potbellied female, swollen, vinous, tight skin, like a corambre
filled with the face Erysipelas, poorly wrapped in cloths of different colors. On the ground,
on a thin mattress covered with pieces of yellow cloth and tattered blankets Morella, lay the sick
girl, about six years, the pale face, clenched fists in the mouth. "What has this creature
is hungry - Benina said, who, having touched on the forehead and hands, found it cold as marble.

-
Maybe so, because hot thing has not come into our bodies from yesterday.

