 

These repeated victories all the needs and situation of the army grew obstacles, and increased
escaseses; in such a way that considered and D. Joseph's Valley in a critical and sensitive
situation, determined to make his way vary from route to Ink, where he was the rebel headquarters
and parts of war: and down for this achievement a valley situated between high mountains,
found a mild temperament, and such abundance food, which his troops succeeded in a few days to
recover their past losses, and continue gears comfortably: either with many difficulties to overcome,
and the narrow steps, such as by large and deep cuts that the enemy failed to defend, or less
advantage of these and countless other benefits that those providing rough land, which in many
places, nature has become inaccessible. Stubborn yet made resistance in some places and less severe
rookeries, pursuing daily, right and left the road, the gears of our military, particularly in the
gorges, without neglecting to take advantage of the darkness of the night to surround the camps and
fatiguing, forcing the troops to be continually under arms, feeling the fire of musketry and
cannon, which easily transportable and bet on all sides, being of small weight and small caliber.

Always
tolerate the insults of the rebels, and repeated threats to surprise the army, arrived at the outskirts
of the village of Quiquijana, after suffering all the way some fire of his artillery and musketry.
Those neighbors had been the most tenacious in promotion and support
of the sedition, trusting no doubt in the advantageous position occupied;
of So, recognized by the Commanding General, D. José del Valle, has
estimated that to reduce was necessary to spend many days, and that
would not get but at the expense of much blood, no Despite the incompetence
of the rebels, the espugnacion graduating from that position, can
two months to stop an embattled army, and many, if he had been occupied
and defended enemy otherwise.

But taken over all, decided to camp in the vicinity, and from was then greeted with the fire of artillery
and musketry, which caused no effect, for be stationed too far. At dawn the next day, the priest's
own people gave notice that the rebels had abandoned the plan to meet the Army their principal
Chief, José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, who was in ink, having cut before the bridge to delay the
continuation of all terms of the march to our troops and also prevent them pursue and pulverized
the back. This notice went into the army Quiquijana del Rey, where they had just left the
women and men, who by his old ailments or had not been able to follow others. All are welcomed
to the temple asylum in where, with many tears and signs of repentance, asking forgiveness of their
lives and the pardon of their homes and farms, that were not delivered to the flames, as they
deserved. All were granted, and only experienced the harshness of punishment, Luis Poma, Inca,
a cousin of usurper Joseph Gabriel, Bernardo Zegarra and confidante, who paid with life on
the gallows their heinous crimes.

More accurate view of the provisions in the town of Quiquijana for safety and grooming, our
army marches continued without intermission of days, and upon reaching the first camp presented
the enemy occupying the next mountain, whose absence had placed a cannon, and prevented the summits
many large and heavy stones, to which they give the name of gauges, to throw and precipitous
to offend our own in a very narrow inevitable gorge, adjacent to a river flowing, who had to
wade precisely. To avoid the danger is named 100 Rifles light troops with all the Indian allies
Chincheros Anta, who was given the order to evict the rebels from three positions very advantageous
that occupied the crest of the mountain where they were housed, whose attack courageously undertaken,
and were fortunate not only to achieve the intent, but also defeat
it entirely, to view the rest of the troops they expected the success
of the event.

The next day it was reported by a deserter from the enemy, who had placed a battery at the foot
of another mountain, the road which was to immediately follow our army, and that 10.000 defended
combatants.