 Hundreds of berets of all colors plied air in proof of magical
effect was produced including the sentence of the former civil in the province. Rockets and municipal
murga supported this glorious manifestation of the berets. A huge number of blue blouses and striped
pants stirred moved, seized by the noblest sentiments religious and humanitarian.

Continuous act moved all the old parish church to sing the Te Deum in thanksgiving. The temple,
decorated as we know from the elite of society women of boulders, was dazzling sequins, chandeliers
and candles. The previous day had arrived Lancia a tiny orchestra, consisting of two violins, a
viola, a cello and a bass and with it three or four singers from the cathedral. The musicians were in
the choir, the bishop and clergy in the presbytery. Don Miguel, the obstinate pastor, refused to
be clothed with the sacred ornaments on the pretext of their ailments, and went to the choir with
the orchestra. The prelate said a brief and heartfelt talk from the pulpit. He had a beautiful
baritone voice that vibrated the most delicate heart strings of all the town's mystical rose. The
brightness of diamond chest and his glasses and gave greater prominence to a magical power his
words sound sweet persuasive.

Cantose after the Te Deum. The treble and bass of the cathedral were prodigious Lancia coos, who
left amazed at the good rocks. The tiny orchestra were seconded perfectly, But now Mr Miguel
you crave to look with disfavor the poor bass just because they did not pass the bow across the strings
more than once in a while. The pastor was knees and in front of him and turned his back to the
musician. Gazed at one another and each with increasing excitement. The musician did his duty
touching the strings in a hurry, producing a dull sound and unfriendly. A D. Miguel seemed that
the height of stupidity and laziness. Lancia come with a good salary and free travel for a few sometimes
rum, rum with that junk, it was something really irritating. The wave of indignation He climbed
on his chest. A thousand thoughts of extermination was piled into the brain while the grim and
sinister remained stuck on the backs of the unfortunate bass, well certainly outside of bloodthirsty
feelings at that moment inspired her harmless person. At last, having left out a harsh and
strident chord than the others, the old priest could not stand it, and rising sharply, went up
to him and fitted a kicked in the kidneys that he fell on his face. There were the musician
and his violin rolling loudly. Noise looked up all the faithful. His justice satisfied, D. Miguel
be returned to the site it once occupied. When the unfortunate musician came to ask why had
done this, he replied that he did not want freeloaders in the church and that would make the favor
to leave with their contraption farther away, because word was not contained.

Once the Te Deum, again, of course, to crackle in the air a few dozen
other dynamite rocket.

The welcoming children of Pepaina, Chola and Lorito, were about perish, victims of their courage,
by taking over one that had not disappointed. D. Miguel, when he knew who had burned his face
and hands, said, according to all Fathers who believed in the direct intervention of Providence
in human affairs.

Shortly after the banquet began in the theater