 This was the man named hand. The giants, to thank for the increase of wages, working
as a desperate, attacking the earth with his spade, not breathing just between blows, and the
other unfortunates had to imitate him not to be outdone, maintained, with superhuman efforts,
the level of the partner who served as an incentive.

At night, exhausted with fatigue, entertained the hopes of the last ranch playing cards, or
humming. Don Paul had strictly forbidden them to read newspapers. His only Joy was on Saturday
when the evening came from the vineyard, Jerez way to go to Mass, as they said. Until Sunday
night with their families were delivering ajorros women, the part
of wages that they remained after paying the cost.

The priest showed his surprise to see that the tenants had been in Marchamalo being Sunday.

-
Because they are very good, father - said the foreman with an accent because they want much hypocrisy
.-- The Man, and was enough to tell them I from Don Pablo about the
party, the poor little pa will not go voluntarily stay home.

Dupont's voice calling to his illustrious friend Urizábal father caused him to abandon Foreman,
going to church, escorted by Mr. Paul and his family.

Mr. Fermin was then that his son was walking with Don Ramon, the head of the desktop, a path.
Spoke of the beauty of the vineyards. Marchamalo again be what in his time most famous, thanks
to the initiative of Don Pablo. Phylloxera had killed many strains which were the glory of the
house Dupont, but the current leader had planted on the slopes devastated
by the parasite American vine, an innovation not seen in Jerez, and
the famous property return to its former glory without fear of new
invasions.

For this was the party; so that the blessing of the Lord covered with their eternal hills Marchamalo
protection.

The head of the desk watching the waves excited by vineyards and burst into lyrical praise. He
was in charge of advertising the house, and his pen old journalist, intellectual expired, leaving
leaflets, brochures, reports, letters in the fourth page of the newspapers, touting the glory
of the wines of Jerez, and especially Dupont house, but in a pompous style, solemn, sung, which
did not actually guess if it was sincere or a joke that Don Ramón
was allowed with his boss and the public.

By reading, had no choice but to believe that the sherry was as indispensable as bread and those
who drank were not sentenced to death next.

- Mira, Fermín, my son - said with intonation speech .-- How beautiful vineyards! I feel proud to
lend my services to a household that owns Marchamalo. This is not in any nation, and when
I hear about the progress of French military power Germans or the
British naval pride, replied: "Okay, but where are these wines like
Sherry?

"Everything that is said of this wine is very pleasing to the eye, willingly to the nose, palate
and delight the repair of the stomach. Did not you think so? ...

Fermín nodded and smiled, as if guessing what was going to tell Don Ramon. He knew by heart periods
prospects oratorios of the house, valued by Don Paul as the most
glorious specimens of profane literature.

Whenever occasion was the old employee's repeated in a tone declamation, intoxicated with the savoring
of his own work.

- Wine, Fermin, is the universal drink par excellence, the healthiest of all that man used for nutrition
or pleasure. Is the drink that earned the honors of intoxication a god of paganism. Drink is
sung by Greek and Roman poets, the celebrated by painters, praised by doctors. In wine, the poet
finds inspiration the boldest soldier, the worker force, ill health. In wine enjoyment is the
man and joy and the old fortress. The wine excites the intellect, stirs the imagination, strengthens
the will, keeps energy. We can not explain the Greek heroes and their admirable poets, but
under the stimulus of the wines of Cyprus and Samos, and the company's license Roman is incomprehensible
to us without Falerno wines and Syracuse. We can only imagine the heroic resistance of the Aragonese
peasant at the site of Zaragoza, without rest and without food, seeing that, besides the admirable
moral power of his patriotism, had for their support porroncillo
physical with red wine ... But within that covers wine production
many countries, what amazing variety of classes and types, colors
and aromas, and how to highlight Sherry at the head of the aristocracy
of wine!

Do not you think the same, Fermin? Can not find is right and well said all I can think of ...?

He
nodded. Everything I had read many times in the introduction of vast catalog of the house,
a notebook with a view of the cellars of Dupont, and its many agencies, accompanied by the
history of the house and praise for his dishes, the masterpiece Don Ramon, the master gave
to customers and visitors with a white binder blue, the colors of
the Purísimas painted by Murillo.

- The wine of Jerez - continued
solemn tone Chief desktop - not an upstart, an article by the fickle
high fashion, her reputation is well seated by ancestry, not Drink
only pleasing, but it is irreplaceable therapeutic agent.

With the bottle of sherry received the friend in England, with the bottle of sherry it is donated
to the recovering Scandinavian countries and India restored to the English soldiers his forces
depleted by fever. The sailors with Jerez combat scurvy, and the saints missionaries have reduced
with him in Australia in cases of anemia caused by weather and the suffering ... How, gentlemen,
not to perform such wonders a good sherry and genuine source? In it are legitimate and natural
alcohol wine with salts that are proper; astringent tannin and ethers stimulant, causing your
appetite for nutrition body, and sleep for restoration. It is both a stimulant and a sedative,
excellent conditions are not met in any product, at the same time is at Sherry, pleasing to
the palate and the eye.

Ramon paused for a moment to catch his breath and recreate in the echo of his eloquence, but immediately
went on, looking fixedly Fermín, as if it were a difficult foe convincing:

- Unfortunately, many people believe sherry taste when they drink unclean sophistication. In
London, under the name of Jerez, heterogeneous liquids are sold. We can not compromise with
this lie, gentlemen.

Sherry is like gold. We admit that gold is pure, middle-or low-grade, but we can not admit that gold
is called double. Only Giving sherry wine sherry vineyards, and aged that recreated with their
stockholders and they export, under the honest firm, unblemished credit houses, such as Dupont
Brothers. No house can be compared with it: it covers all branches; cultivated the vine and
develops the must; stored and aged the wine itself is dedicated to the export and sale, and also distilled
grape, producing its famous cognac. Its history spans nearly a century and a half. The Dupont
are a dynasty, their strength does not support assistants or associates, plant vines in its
own grounds, and strains have been born before Dupont nurseries. The grapes are pressed on Dupont
wineries, and the barrels in fermenting wine is made by Dupont. In warehouses Dupont is aged
and aged the wine under the supervision of a Dupont, and Dupont encasca and exported without the
intervention of other interested parties. Wherefore, Dupont legitimate wines in security that
is the house that preserves, pure and genuine.

Fermín laugh listening to his boss, exhaust released from the fragments of prospectuses and claims,
she kept in her memory.

- But Don Ramón! If I did not buy or carry a bottle!

... If I'm home!

The head of the desk seemed to wake from his nightmare speech, and laughed just as his subordinate.

-
Maybe you've read in the publications of the house much of this, but agree with me that it is
not bad. Furthermore - continued ironically - the great men live
under the weight of our greatness and how we can not leave it, we
repeat.

He looked at the areas covered by vines, and continued in a tone of sincere joy

- I am glad that American vines have been replanted with the large
gaps left by the phylloxera.

I advised him many times to Don Pablo.

So soon will increase production, and businesses that go wrong, will go even better. Now you can
return whenever the pest: for this will pass.

Fermin made a gesture which invited confidence.

- Frankly, Don Ramon, who do you think is more? "In the American vine, or blessings that parent
strains were cast? ...

Don Ramón stared at the girl as if to look in his eyes.

- Little boy! Boy! - Said sternly.

After the light turned around with some alarm, and continued in a low voice as if strains could
hear:

- You know me: I treat you with confidence because you are unable to walk with murmurs and because
I've seen the world and has desasnado abroad. What do I come with questions? You know I keep
silent and let things roll. I have no right to more. Dupont house is my refuge, if come out of
it, would have to return with all my offspring to the desperate poverty of Madrid. I here as
a drifter who is resting and make good what they give, not allowing criticize their benefactors.

The
memory of the past, with its illusions and its displays of independence,
aroused in him a blush.

To reassure himself wanted to explain the radical change in his life.

- I retired, Fermin, and no regrets. There are still many who were my companions miseries and
passions, which remain faithful to the past with a result that is stubbornness. But they are
born heroes and I am only a man who thinks eating as the first function of life ... Also, I got
tired of writing for the glory and ideas, sweat for others and live in perpetual poverty. One
day I said I can only work to be big man or for food. And because he was convinced that the
world could not feel the slightest emotion for my retirement, and had come to learn that I am,
I collected I titled ideal gear, I decided to eat, and making certain drums given by me in the
papers to the house Dupont, I got into it forever, and I can not complain.

Don Ramon thought he saw in the eyes of some reluctance by Fermín cynicism expressing and he
hastened to add:

- I am who I am, boy. If I scratch it, appears to be. Believe me, that bites apple fatal speaking
these gentlemen friends of our principal, not ever remove the like lips. Envelope changes
to stay alive, but of soul ever! Which question once, and reason and criticism, no longer believes
that sincere devotees as ever, believes it advised him the reason, or because they impose
their convenience. So when you see one, like me, talk about faith and belief, tell lies because
for you, or to deceive himself to provided some reassurance ... Fermin, my son, the bread I
did not win gently, but at the cost of baseness of soul, give me shame. I, who in my time was of
pride and virtue spiked hedgehog ... But I think his back to my daughters, who want to eat and
dress and everything else that is needed to catch a husband, and while this is not even this I
keep stealing.

Don Ramon thought he saw his friend again in a gesture of sympathy.

- Despréciame all you want: young people do not understand certain things can be pure, so that
your people suffer more than ... In addition, boy, I'm not sorry of what they call my apostasy.
I am a disappointed ... "Sacrifice for this people? For the worth! ... I spent half my life
waiting raging hunger and loose. Come on, tell me, When has really lifted this country? When
we had a revolution? ... The only really was the year 8, and if the country rebelled was because
he had kidnapped a few princes and infants who were born dumb and evil by hereditary instinct;
and the popular beast shed his blood so they could return these gentlemen, who appreciated many
sacrifices to send some to prison and others to the gallows. Famous people! Anda and Sacrifice
expecting something from him ... After that there have been revolutions, all statements have been army
mutinies by the personal antagonism thrive or, if something was served
indirectly, to seize them currents of opinion.

And now the generals and do not rise, because they have everything they want, and care at
the top of flatter, chastened by history, the revolution is over! Those who work for it and become
fatigued sudan both succeed or bring forth out of water in baskets
... Greetings to the heroes from my door retirement!

... but do not give any step to accompany them. I do not belong to his glorious class; poultry'm
quiet and well primed, and I regret it when I see my old Comrade Fernando Salvatierra, your father's
crony, winter clothing in summer and Summer in winter, eating bread
and cheese, with a cell reserved in all prisons Peninsula and molested
at every step by monitoring ... Very nice, the newspapers published
the hero's name, maybe the story comes to talking about it, but I
prefer my table the desk, my chair, which makes me think of the canons
in the choir together, and generosity Don Paul, who is splendid as
a prince who know take the air.

Fermin, bothered by the ironic tone with which he won, satisfied with
his servants, spoke of Salvatierra, was to answer, when the top of
the imperious voice rang esplanade Dupont and heavy claps of people
calling his foreman.

The campaign launched in space on the third touch. Mass was to begin. Don Pablo, from the steps
of the chapel, covered in a look at all his flock and entered it
in haste because he wanted to help people build mass.

The crowd of
workers filled the chapel, remaining all standing, with a surly gesture
I did lose Dupont, at times, all hope that people are grateful that
the care they had with their souls.

Near the altar, sitting on red
chairs, were the ladies of the family, and behind relatives and employees.
The altar was decorated with mountain herbs and flowers in the greenhouse
Hotel of Dupont. The acrid scent of wild bouquets, mingled with the
smell of tired, sweaty flesh exhaled crowding of the laborers