 Ay! It must be very serious case when they call doctor.
If you have torn! Probably. Those dogs are like beasts. What horror My God! Mateu, said loudly,
looking around him.

Indeed very strange things started out for Elizabeth to the family under whose roof was hosted
and wit as weighted Tinaja. Keenly interested the fate of the nurse, a former nurse of his
young friend, now banished from the house manor, and moved, horrified at what he had heard
about the slave, bitten by ferocious dogs, all things unheard of for her, Elizabeth could
not hide Leonardo, nor his intense dislike or their deep emotions.

-
What do you have?

What has given you? he asked.

- I do not know, "she said. I feel bad.

- I thought, "continued Leonard, you had affected the tale of wounded black. Do not be boba.
What bet that has not been more the thing? Do not spend a few scratches?

If you knew the nurse would think like me. Mom can not see it as outrageous.

Nor is there they never give full credit to what they say blacks. Exaggerate everything and bulking.

-
What, Adela? Rosa asked from his seat listening to her call her doctor.

The nurse was gone in an instant, and before answering his mother Adela appeared Mayoral horse,
preceded by his two beautiful mastiff, to account for voice Campanula all that had happened.
Was this tall, lean meats, more than tough Member very dark face, black-eyed, curly hair and
beard village, whose large whiskers I covered both sides of the face until it touches the corners
of the mouth, which seemed so smaller. Despite the wide-brimmed hat as he always wore, both in
the field than at home, outdoor indoor because often made use of him as cap sleep, when I took
to talk with Don Candido who saw himself as the top on his forehead looked like a white man,
nose, cheeks and hands, but nobody would which were of a mulatto were so badly burned from the sun.
He came armed, as they say, until teeth, tape machete, dagger out of silver shining like that,
and the ponderous whip, the handle made from a piece of wild orange,
was not less terrible for being gun just blunt.

He began by saying:

- Santas afternoon has the Don Candido with the company toa.

I am coming to participasle they have brought to Peter brichi with
some bite.

It was necessary Atoja arresistió and dogs.

- Who has captured? the master asked calmly.

- The participation of Don Francisco Estévez, Maroons take nombráa
pa.

- Do you know where they have captured?

- In the reeds of La
Begoña, Close to the mountains.

- Was he alone?

What peers?

- NAA is known about them, Don Candido, neither Peter nor decislo
Quie.

I will figure pa biraslo will need to sing. Therefore I come to where the Don Candido pa tell
me what to do with Peter. It is very emperrao ...

Where did you have Don Liborio? asked the master after a long pause.

- In the infirmary.

- What, is so spoiled?

- Not so, Don Candido. I have it in the stocks of nursing pa greater
security, not I wanted the hurt ponesle crickets, and then I was willing
figure with bad intentions. His eyes are two tomatoes Mauro, and I
repaired it when asina put the black eye is to make a fechuría quieen.
I say to the man who is that black emperrao mu. Watch Mr if dog, when
I put in the stocks I said - the man does not die more than a time,
and that "he was working cansao pa his master." The lord should know
that after the asina fuck and talk black is because, as my friend
Moya, who is present, they Guinea has put my head. They have hastily
tragáo bracelet here that when go straight for their land.

- Aberrations
of ignorance! exclaimed the priest