 She was pretty, with the freshness of youth. Her eyes gray, large,
gullible, simple and frisky lamb, straight hair, white-blond, hung in faint streaks on the brown
face and red, dotted with freckles. Handled with clumsiness the closed umbrella, and then he
glanced anxiously double gold chain coming down from neck to waist, as if he feared the disappearance
of a long gift requested.

Rafael left to examine to look at his wife. His view that ran neck topped by the tight blonde
hair, a gold crest, white collar, round, fleshy; broad and slender back, hidden under a blue
silk blouse, slimming lines quickly at the waist and widening later, to mark the contour of the hips
under the gray skirt harmonic folds tight cloths like a statue, and whose edge appeared the solid
English shoes heels, locking the foot small, agile and strong.

The woman called her maid. His sonorous voice, pasty, vibrant, launched a few words of Rafael
could barely reach the main syllables. The silence of the tall rustling folded and seemed
confused, but the young man was sure he had not spoken in Spanish. It was indeed a foreign ...

Showed admiration and enthusiasm for the picture, he spoke quickly to his home, pointing major towns
from there he saw, citing them by name, which was all clearly coming to the ears of Rafael. Who
was this woman never seen speaking foreign language and knew the country? Perhaps the wife of
a French or English exporter of those who had settled in the city for the purchase of Orange.
And forced by isolation and vulgarity of his life to a painful continence, his eyes devouring the
contours this woman, backs superb, opulent and elegant that seemed to defy indifference.

Rafael saw how carefully he left his home the hermit, a rustic living of people visiting those heights.
Attracted by the appearance of the unknown lady presented health by offering water to the tank
and discovered in his honor the miraculous virgin.

He turned the lady to answer the hermit, and then could contemplate Rafael with all tranquility.
She was tall, very tall, maybe he had the same height, but softened by curves that exposed the
robustness combined with elegance. The opulent and strong chest and a head on it which made
a deep impression on Rafael. He seemed to see through a cloud - the warm vapor of emotion - green
eyes, big, bright, funny nose of pulsing alillas and pink, and blond hair that fell over his
white skin, with slides of nacre, faintly streaked with blue veins. It was a profile of modern
beauty, funny and hot. Rafael thought those features found in the footprint of countless artists.
Had seen before. Where? ... I did not. Maybe in the illustrated newspapers, on the albums of beauties
artistic, it was possible that the boxes of matches played fashionable beauties. The fact was
that at that face seen for the first time in his memory felt the same impression that finding a
friendly face after a long absence.

The hermit, excited by the hope of a tip, llevábalas to the chapel, at whose door Weird peeked his
wife and daughter, dazzled by the huge bright twinkling in the ears
of the unknown.

- Between you, SEÑORET - said the rustic .-- Lady
will teach you know?

Our Lady of Lluch, legitimate, he came alone from Majorca here. Back in Palma believe they have
true, but what they have to say? Rage makes them the idea that Our Lady prefers Alcira, and here
she is, proving it is true with the portentous miracles it performs.

Opened the door of the little church cool and shady as a warehouse, showing in the background,
stuck in a dull gold baroque altar, the small image in the mantle gap and the black face.

The good man, rattled, and who knows by heart the story of the image. It was the Virgen del Lluch,
the patron saint of Mallorca. A hermit came fleeing from there, it was not why: perhaps some
of the Saracens in the time of wars and atrocities, and save Our Lady of desecration, brought her
to Alcira, building this sanctuary. Came then from Mallorca to restore her to her island, but
as the celestial lady had law took Alcira and its inhabitants, flying over the sea again without
getting wet feet, and the Balearics, to conceal this event as an image carved. It was all
true, and as test there was the first hermit buried at the foot of the altar, and there the Virgin
with her face black as a result of the sun and humidity of the sea
that darkened in his miraculous journey.

The lady listened to the good man, smiling slightly, her maid, kept his ears to fear of losing any
word of a half-understood language, and his big eyes peasant credulous,
would the image of the narrator, expressing admiration for so portentous
miracle.

Rafael had followed into the chapel, and was approaching the stranger who affected not to see
him.

- This is a tradition - he dared to say when the rustic finished his story .-- You understand
you, madam, that no one accepts such things here.

- I think so - the beautiful stranger replied gravely.

- Treason
or not, Don Rafael - growled the hermit with discontent - and was
told by my grandfather and all of his time, and so people think.

When so much has been said, there must be.

In the patch of sunlight cast by the doorway on the tiles, it marked the shadow of a woman.

It was a poorly dressed gardener.

He looked young, but his face pale and flaccid as paper marking the outgoing and cavities
of his skull, eyes sunken and dull and wicks dirty hair escaped from under the knotted handkerchief,
dábanla aspect of disease and misery.

Walking barefoot, with shoes in hand, swinging painfully, with legs apart, as if you experience
great pain when putting plants in the ground.

The hermit knew a lot, and while the unhappy, panting from the ascent, and pain of her bare feet, was
dropped on a bench, he told his story in a nutshell Mrs and Rafael.

She was very ill, a condition of the matrix which ended with it quickly. I did not believe doctors
who, she says, "playing tricks with words", also repugnant to the
modesty of good Women, educated Christian, given to outrageous displays
of diseased organs.

I knew the only cure: the Virgen del Lluch would eventually heal.

And every week, barefoot with shoes in hand, painfully climbing the hill, in her garden she
could hardly move chair and the husband needed to guard the house
trappings.

The hermit approached the sick, taking a piece of copper in his hand. Wanted a joy as ever, eh?

-
Visanteta, gocho uns! - Shouted the rustic hovering at the door.

He went into the church his daughter, a MøreNot Bouncers and dirty,
with African eyes: a beauty seemed rustic getaway in a horde.

He settled on a bench, turning his back to the Virgin and grumpy gesture
which is forced to do every day the same thing, and with a hoarse
voice, torn, angry, that shook the walls of the sanctuary, began a
slow chant, singing the story Image and mighty miracles.

The sick woman, kneeling before the altar and hold the shoes, showing
the skirts the soles of the feet bruised and bloody by scratches from
the stones, repeating the chorus after each stanza, imploring the
protection of the Virgin.

His voice sounded weak, sad wail of a sick child. His haggard eyes in the image with a painful
expression of supplication, and covered with tears as her voice sounded increasingly shaky and
distant.

The beautiful stranger showed some emotion at the sight.

The maid knelt and continuing with the head movements of singing chant, pray in a language
that finally Rafael knew, was Italian. The lady looked at the patient with eyes of pity.

- What a thing is faith! - Sighing voice murmured.

- Yes, ma'am, a beautiful thing.

And Rafael had added a sentence rhetoric and brilliant of the many who had read healthy authors
on the greatness of faith, but in vain searched his memory, there
was no nothing, that woman deeply disturbed her shyness alone.

They finished the joys. In the last stanza the wild singer disappeared, and the sick incorporating
work, getting up after several painful attempts.

The hermit approached her with the gift of a shopkeeper who extols genres establishment .-- Was
that better? Did you try the trip to the Virgin?

... The poor sick increasingly pale, revealing a terrible grimace of pain he suffered in stitches
his heart, he dared not answer for fear of offending the miraculous
Lady.

"I did not know! ... Yes .. really should be better ... But that climb! ... This promise had not
been as good result as the previous ones, but she had faith: the
Virgin would be good for her and heal.

"

On leaving the church, as he unveiled his hope with broken words, was both pain, which almost lay
on the ground.

The hermit placed in his chair and ran after to the tank to bring a glass of water.

The Italian girl, with eyes wide with fright, was to the poor woman
consoling words tore loose pity "Povera!

Poverina! ... Coraggio! "And the gardener, in the midst of his weakness, he opened his eyes
to look at the foreign, not understanding the words, but guessing its tenderness.

The lady came to the square. He seemed deeply impressed by that pain. Rafael's pretending was distracted,
a little ashamed of his insistence, and wishing at the same time
an opportunity to resume the conversation.

Breathed Mrs. amplitude to be in the open space, huge, where the view
lost in the blue horizon.

- My God - he said as if talking to herself
.-- How sad and what a joy at the same time!

This is very beautiful. But that woman! ... That poor woman!

- For years now, and I see - Rafael said, pretending to know much, though until then seldom had
noticed the poor gardener .-- All-in-class people are very special.

They despise doctors, not serve them, and kill with these barbaric
devotions from which they expect health.

- Who knows if his is the
best!

Evil is invincible, and science can against him both and faith.

Sometimes, even less ... And to think, laugh and enjoy while evil
runs through our rozándonos side without being seen!

...

This did not know what to say Rafael. But what was this woman? What mode of expression, Gentlemen!
Poor boy accustomed to vulgarity and soseces of friends of his mother, and under the impression
that I find deeply troubled him, believed to be in the presence of a sage in skirts, a philosopher
come from far away in some dark beer German, to disturb him in the guise of beauty.

The stranger was silent, his eyes fixed on the horizon.

In her mouth, large, sensual and fleshy lips, and among them loomed
the magnificent and bright teeth, seemed to point a smile caressing
the landscape.

- How beautiful is this! - Said without turning to
his companion .-- I wanted to see him again!

Finally got the chance to make the desired question was offering herself.

-
Are you in here? - Asked in a tremulous voice, fearing that his curiosity
was repelled by contempt.

- Yes, sir - only answered the lady.

-
As it is particular.

I've never seen you ...

- No wonder. I arrived yesterday.

- As I said! ... I know everyone in town.

My name is Rafael Brull, and I am son of Don Ramon, who was mayor of Alcira often.

He had already released. The poor boy felt the itch to give his name, to say who was to sound that
name famous in the district to acquire personality enhancement to
the unknown.

Influenced by her example, may say who it was.

But beautiful lady merely followed his statement with ah! of cold
surprise, that did not reveal even if your name was familiar.

But at the same time, he wrapped a glance research and mocking that seemed to say:

- This guy has good presence, but must be stupid.

Rafael blushed, realizing he had made a simplicity to give his name and no one it asked, with
the same solemnity as if you were in the presence of a rustic district.

It was a painful silence. Rafael wanted out of this situation, it bothered him to see that glacial
woman, indifferent to treat you with courtesy dismissive, arguing
with great correction distances to avoid familiarity.

But as early as the slope, dared to follow asking

- What do you spend much time in Alcira? ...

Rafael thought the ground sinking beneath his feet.

A new look for green eyes: but this time cold, menacing, something
like livid lightning, reflected in the ice.

- I do not know ...--
answered with a slowness that seemed to emphasize his disdain .--
I use to leave sites when I annoyed them.

And after a pause, looked at Rafael's face to greet you with a cold nod.

- Good afternoon, sir.

Rafael was stunned. He saw how he went to the doorway of the sanctuary by calling the maid. Each of
his steps, each swing of the hips arrogant, seemed to raise a barrier
between her and Raphael.

The saw gardener leaning affectionately on the sick, opened a small satin bag that had her maid,
and sifting through junk bright and embroidered handkerchiefs pulled the hand full, shining
silver in her fingers.

Poured on the apron of the astonished peasant gave something back to the hermit, who showed no less
start, and opening the red umbrella set off followed by the maid.

Passing by Rafael, the latter replied to sombrerazo inclined elegant,
almost without looking, and started down the rocky slope of the mountain.

The

continued the young man looked at through the pines and cypresses grow smaller viewing woman
proud of her body strong and healthy.

Around him seemed to float even your perfume, as if to let him get away wrapped in environmental
superiority of exotic elegance that emanated from his person.

Rafael saw the hermit approached, desirous of communicating his admiration.

- Quina lady! said putting his eyes to express his enthusiasm.

He had given a hard, white slice of that for many years, because of the low faith, did not rise
to those heights. And there was Visanteta, poor sick, sitting in the chapel door staring at
her apron, as if hypnotized by the brilliance of a handful silver, hard, single and double pesetas,
coins of fifty cents, all content bag, even a golden button should
be of a glove.

Rafael participated in amazement.

But who was this woman?

- What do I know? - Answered the peasant. And guided by the incomprehensible words of the maid, added
with conviction: - Be a fransesa ... A rich fransesa.

Rafael returned to continue the sight of the two umbrellas that went down the slope as insects
color. Declining rapidly. It was not the greatest of a red dot, and was lost down on the plain
between the green masses of the first orchards ... had disappeared.

And when he was alone, all alone, Rafael suffered a big explosion
of anger.

It seemed odious the place where so shy and had proved so clumsy. He resented seeing the flash
still there that look cool, repel, taking a wide berth. He was ashamed of the memory your
stupid questions.

And to answer the greeting of the hermit and his family, rushed down the hill hoping rediscover
it did not know where. The red rolling stones under his feet. The heir Don Ramon's, hope the
district, was furious, waving his hands with a nervous tremor, as if to slap. And with aggressive
tone, as if I talk to her that leaving walking body sheath in front
of him, shouting:

- Idiot!

... Stupid ... Provincial!

IV

Doña Bernarda did not suspect the reason why his son got up the next
day pale and haggard as he has had a bad night.

Not even his political friends guess afternoon the reason why Rafael, making good time, was to
withdraw into the atmosphere Casino dense.

The most boisterous fellow surrounded him to talk once again of the great news that brought a
week ago stirred the party.

They were to be dissolved the Cortes newspapers not talking about
something else.

Within two or three months before the end of the year, new elections and with them the loud
and unanimous triumph of the candidacy of Rafael.
Don Andrés and the most serious of his followers, was thinking about
remembering dates and making accounts with the fingers, as courtiers
who form their calculations on the eve of the declaration Prince older.

The
intimate friend and lieutenant of the House of Brull, was the most
aware. If elections were verified at the time indicated by the newspapers,
short of some few Rafael months, five or six, to meet the twenty-five
years. But he had written to Madrid to consult the characters of the
party, Minister of the Government was willing and had previous Rafael
and although it lacks the age requirement, the district would be for
him. And not send Madrid more nursery. No more big shots unknown.
And all the gray brullesca is preparing for the fight with the noisy
enthusiasm of one who knows that victory is assured beforehand.

All
these events left Rafael cold. He, they desired the arrival of elections
to be free, back in Madrid, remained insensitive that afternoon as
if were about the fate of another.

Looking forward to the table where
Don Andrés sitting with three other notables playing your daily departure,
and waited for the moment which came to sit beside usual to him, that
he considered his duties as Regent, sheltering under the authority
and wisdom master the Crown Prince. 

Good middle of the afternoon,
when the room was less crowded casino, the atmosphere is open and
quiet ivory balls on the green cloth, don Andrés adjourned the game
closer to his pupil, surrounded by supporters as always stickier and
sycophants.

Rafael pretending to listen while he prepared mentally
question the day before Andrew wanted to make a gift.

Finally he
decided:

- You who knows everybody. Who is a very pretty lady who
seems foreign and I found yesterday in the mountain of San Salvador?

The
old man began to laugh, throwing back his chair so shaken by the noisy
belly laugh, does not hit the edge of the table.

- Do you also have
you seen? - Said between the gasps of his laugh .-- Well, sir, that
city this! Arrived yesterday, and we all have seen, and do not talk
about something else. You are the only missing to wonder ... Jo! Jo!
Jo! But what city is!

Then extinguished his smile, which astonished
Rafael, quieter continued:

- Well, that foreign lady, as you say,
it's here, and was born in the same street you. Do not you know Dona
Pepa, the doctor, as they call it, a little lady who has a garden
by the river and lives in a blue house is flooded whenever the Júcar
up