 Are you here?

I have not seen your car down.

- I walk out, Dad.

- It's a miracle.

You may want to take mine.

- No, I have desire to walk. I am these days very heavy.

The Duke of Requena had dispensed with all present and spoke to his daughter with all affability that
was susceptible. The rarely seen. Clementina was his natural daughter, having back in Valencia,
when young, a woman from the lowest social class, as he apparently was. Then he had married in
Madrid, and on track to be rich, with a young middle class, which had no family. This woman,
extremely delicate health since her marriage, had given or, rather, had she proposed that her
husband's daughter came to inhabit the same house. Clementina was raised, then, here and was
beloved of his father's wife as a real daughter. She also wanted and respected as a mother.
After the married used to visit often, but as his father was always very busy, did not enter rooms,
and from his mother (so called) was to the street. Only on days banquet or reception, or when
by chance he encountered at home or on the street chatted around
with it.

After asking for her husband and their children, Duke began to talk, not sit, Calderon and Pepa
Frias. A rude man campechanote in appearance, smiled a few times: when he did so was so slight
that it could still be doubted. I used to call the things by their name and address people
not polite, telling the face things that could go through rudeness, because I knew they were not giving
a dye between rough and warm as they took away the sting. It was not very talkative. Generally remained
silent biting his cigar and looking to partner with slanted eyes, impenetrable. Showed speaking
false and sly innocence that he did not unfriendly.

Always looked after the old rogue mercadal of Valencia, right, mocking, suspicious and cunning.

Pepa
Frias told him about business. The widow was tireless in this conversation. I wanted to learn
all, for fear of being deceived profits always eager and trembling with terror comic before
Low perspective of their funds. It was repeated ad nauseam the details. "Would release the
Bank's shares and buy tanks? What did the government do with the redeemable? I had heard rumors.
Do you make the next payment rising? Would not it be better settle
upon thirty cents of profit to wait to make ends meet?

"

For her Salabert words were those of the oracle of Delphi. The banker's immense fame the was
fascinated. Unfortunately, the Duke, like all ancient and modern oracles are always expressed
that he consulted, in an ambiguous way. Often responded with grunts nobody knew whether they were
of affirmation, denial or doubt. The phrases occasionally escaped from his mouth between smoking
and moist lips were dark and dirty, cut, unintelligible in many cases. Moreover, everyone knew it
was not possible to trust him, to be enjoyed in confuse your friends and let them fall headlong
into a bad deal. However, Pepa insisted aspiring to boot from a brain light the secret of mine:
joke took him by the lapels of his coat, calling him old, taciturn, fox, displaying a shamelessness
that it had become flirtatious. The banker did not fire. He was responding with humor as he
grunts and lurid phrase that made laugh Calderon although I really wanted to do seeing tremendous
cast ruthlessly spat on the carpet. For the Duke, the hotness of snuff was not used enough
and salivated repair where to do it, unless in his house tended to get off the spittoon. Calderón
was restless, violent, just as if you cast them in the face. A third Once, unable to restrain
himself, he was looking for the spittoon to put it aside. Salabert sneer at him and winked at Pepa.
Calderón said he was quiet and talkative and sought to replace the Duke Pepa giving advice on the
funds. But though man prudent and skilled in business, the widow not appreciated or even wanted
to hear them. At last After all, between him and Salabert huge gap existed: one was an ordinary
businessman, the another genius from the bench. However, he nodded to the indications inarticulate
sounds stock of the owner of the house. Pepa did not trust.

Salabert pulled away a little of the group and fell on the arm of a chair by one gross position
for which he alone was right. Instead of being frowned upon those manners free and rude, contributed
not a little of its prestige and respect in society idolatrous is taxed. Far from the pan
again returned to salivate over the carpet with some Malicious enjoyment, which despite its good-natured
indifferent mask is reflected by the face. Calderon also turned to cloud and pucker up to, resolving
to jump over certain social ruthlessly, he again approached the spittoon without much value as
before as he did with his foot. Pepa sat on the other arm and continued to Caroca the Duke. This
began to set more attention on it. Their eyes frequent head wrapped at the foot, noticing
that they stopped in the chest high and provocative. Pepa was a woman fresh appetizing. After a
few minutes she leaned banker with little finesse, and bringing her face to face, as it seemed that
it touched his lips, he said quietly

- Do you have many Osuna?

- Some, yes, sir.

- You sell them to escape.

Pepa

looked into his eyes intently and noticed it being stopped.

After a few moments it was she who approached her face as the banker
asked quietly:

- What to buy?

- Redeemable - said the famous millionaire
with the same subject.

Entered at the time a gentleman and a lady, both young, petite, smiling,
and living in his manner.

- Here are my children - Pepa said.

Marriage was a pleasure to watch. Both handsome, open and friendly face, and so young people
who really like two children.

They were greeted one by one to the circles.

In every face guard warned that inspired affection.

- Here is your mother, Emily. What I find so disgusting!

Pepa said do you ?...-- the young.

- Mother in Law, no, mom ... mother - he replied, pressing her hand
affectionately.

- God bless you, son! - Said the widow with a sigh
of comic appreciation.

Again to accommodate the gathering. Married youth sat down together near Mariana. Clementina had
left the place and talked with Maldonado's name sounded Pepe Castro many times on his lips.
Cobo meanwhile used the time, making you laugh with their shameless to Pacita, but even trying
that we hope to jokes with equal pleasure, he could not. The girl Calderón, serious, distracted,
seemed to meet covertly to what Ramon and Clementina spoke. Pinedo was up and paid court to the
Duke. And the general, seeing his idol in animated conversation with the young married, fatigued
its labyrinthine compliments were not understood, nor their rubbings poetic came to do the same.
The Marquise and the priest were whispering sharply beyond a corner, she is increasingly humble
and insinuating, sitting on the edge of the seat, tilting your body to put him on the ear voice,
he more severe and rigid at times, closing at long intervals eyes as if he were in the confessional.

-
Which two babies, eh! - Pepa said aloud, addressing Mariana -.

Is not it shame that these brats are married? How much better would be if they were playing spin!

The
boys smiled looking with love.

- I play ... in moments of leisure - Cobo Ramírez said sarcastically.

- Man, ca! - Pepa said, becoming angry at him -.

Have they given you have them of their games?

He and Emilio exchanged a mischievous look. Irene, she married, she blushed.

- You are getting old, Pepa. Remember that you're a grandmother - Ms. Calderón said.

- What a rich grandma! - Cobo said under his breath, but with the intention that it should hear
the employee.

This gave him an angry glance between smiling and showing that he had heard and appreciated
in the background. Cobo was affecting the distracted.

- Do you have past and berrenchina? - Continued the widow ran to her
children -.

How long will peace? ... Jesus, what creatures so talkative! ... Look, I'm not going to your
house because nose when you meet me feel like taking the broom and breaking the ribs of the
two ....

The circles turned to the young couple smiling. This time he put both strongly red. Then, for
the seriousness that was well marked on the face of Emilio, Could you understand that there
were damn tired casual grace of those outputs her mother.

The general Patiño, by order of the beautiful lady of the house, put his finger on a button electric
bell. Came a servant, he did love a sign: not five minutes passed without providing any further
and after him two trays each with hands filled with cups of tea, pastries and cakes. Pleasant time
of expansion in the party. All are set in motion and shine in the eyes of animal pleasure
which will satisfy an organic necessity. Esperancita hurriedly left his friend and Ramírez
and starts request help with her mother in the task of serving tea to the circles. Ramon takes
the moment when the child presented with a mug to say it quietly
and upset "that very surprised to be pleased to hear the boobs and
phrases Cobo Ramirez daring.

" Hope you look confused, and finally says "she has not heard such blunders, that Cobo is a very
nice and funny guy. "Ramoncito protest weakly, lugubrious intonation against such species and
continues to discredit his friend, until it, smelling the bacon, it about them joking as usual.
Thus, our distinguished councilor is more overcast the face and is withdrawn gradually: that is not
insolent Cobo any nonsense you can think to laugh at his expense.

Came time to talk about literature, as always happens in all night gatherings or evening of the
capital. Patiño General spoke of a brand new play with most happy success and put their buts,
based mainly on increases scenes color. Mariana said no way would you see it then. All agreed
anathematize today's immorality displayed by the authors. They said pests of naturalism. Cobo
Ramirez I had taken and then some sandwiches and had eaten a fabulous amount of buns and biscuits,
spoke to the gathering that he had recently read a novel called Le journal d'une dame (in French
and all), beautiful, bonitísima, the most spiritual that he had read ever. For Cobo, in literature
- rare case! - He was so spiritual, delicate.

No will come to him with such heavy lotas nove-one where you have the time to a bricklayer
stretches to get out of bed (or the cakes and buns that eats a boy good society), nor did he
speak of birth and other similar crap. In the novels should wear nice things, because they
are written to please. This he said with considerable firmness, wheezing to speak like a racehorse.
The others nodded.

The entry of a knight neither tall nor short, neither thin nor fat, elevation of shoulders and
fucked the waist, low color, black beard so thick and cut that seemed fake, cut literary conversation
quickly. Nothing less than was the minister of Public Works. So his head was so upright that nearly
gave the cerebellum in the back, and his eyes half goodbye and closed between the long black lashes
sufficiency and protection lightning to the present. Up to twenty-two had had his head in his natural
position, but from this time, when he was named vice president for civil and canon law at the Academy
of Jurisprudence, had begun to rise slowly and majestically as moonlight on the sea in the Royal
Theatre stage, that is, short and imperceptible tugs of string.

They made a provincial deputy, a tug. Then Member of Parliament, another tug. After the provincial
governor, another tug. Later head of a department; another. Chairman of the Committee on Budgets;
another. Minister; another. The rope was exhausted. Although he made crown prince, Jiménez
Arbós could not lift his one millimeter big head.

His entry was movement, but not as much as the Duke of Requena.

East, whose face fleshy, sensual, could not hide the contempt he
felt for that assembly, ran it though, and you're greeted with amazing
performance and servility, taking into account rusticity and coarseness
with generally behaved in social intercourse.

Minister started handing out handshakes in a way that offended so
distracted.

Only when Pepa Frias greeted showed signs of animation.

This quietly asked tuteándole:

- How come in tails?

- I will eat
at the French embassy.

- Are you going home then?

- Yes.

This dialogue was imperceptible voice very fast observed by the Duke,
who approached Pinedo asked to reserve and making a sign of expression:

-
Say you, and Pepa Frias Arbós?

...

- You have at least two months.

The look she gave him then the banker's widow was not of the quality of the above. Was now
more careful, more respectful and thorough, leaving after a little thought. Calderón had approached
the minister and spoke with compliance. Salabert did the same. But character did not want to
talk business or perchance it was fearful the famous businessman.

The press was reluctant evil on this business with the government. Therefore, a few moments,
he went after Pepa Frias and began to whisper in a corner of the room.

Clementina was increasingly impatient with some atrocious wishes to leave. Kept do so for fear
of his father to accompany her. The minister was a few minutes, before handing another few handshakes
with the same distraction imposing looking, not the person greeted,
but the ceiling of the room.

Then the Duke Pepa Frias took over, showing her as gallant and expressive,
as if to make a declaration of love.

The general, watching, Pinedo said:

- Look at the Duke, which has been encouraged.

Of fixed he is making love to Pepa.

- No - seriously answered the employee -.

What we're making love now is the business of river mines.

The widow announced loudly after he was leaving.

- Where are you going, Pepa, at this time? - Asked the banker.

-
A house Lhardy to order some bologna.

- I accompany you.

- Come
on, you convidaré to take a few cupcakes.

At Duke he was funny treat.

- Are you coming, little girl? - She told her daughter.

Clementina still planned to stay a while.

Pepa, while leaving the arm of the banker said aloud, turning to
the Present:

- Be it known that we are not going away.

Which made them laugh.

- Const - Duke said, laughing - that says it for flatter.

- To explain that: we have not understood ...-- Cobo Ramirez shouted.

But the Duke and Pepa had disappeared behind the curtain. Clementina waited five minutes. When boasted
that he could not stumble on the stairs to his father, rose, and
claiming a chore forgotten, dismissed as well.

III

#'s Daughter Salabert. #

Fell forward to the ladder. To set foot on the street let out a sigh of relief. A brisk took
the Seventh of July, came into the Market Square and then at the Atocha. Al came here came to his mind
the image of the young man had followed her and turned her head uneasily. Nothing, there was
no fear. None followed. At the door of one of the first and better houses in the street, stopped,
looked at them both quickly and secretly sides and penetrated in the portal. He almost imperceptible
sign goalkeeper question. This answered another statement, touching his cap. He rushed up the stairs.
Rose as fast, no doubt to avoid encounters importunate, that on reaching
the second floor choking her fatigue and put a hand on his heart.

With the other he gave two taps on a door. Instantly opened quietly, threw himself in with
a vengeance, as if chased.

- Better late than never - said the young
man who had opened, becoming close with care.

He was a man of twenty to thirty years, more regular tall, thin, thin face and right, pink in
the cheeks, mustache twisted, pointed goatee and black hair and parties in the middle with a
line drawn carefully. Reminiscent of those soldiers paper that children play, that is, was
a military-style sissy. It also seemed his face that tailors usually put their costumes, and
was so nasty and disgusting like theirs. She wore a pearl-colored velvet robe with many exquisite
ornaments wore on her feet slippers of the same gender and color with the initials embroidered
in gold. Warned soon it was one of those men who care with dedication of dressing his person retouching
the figure with the same care and delicacy with which the sculptor carves a statue that curling
mustache and cosmetic believe him to be fulfilling a sacred and inescapable duty conscience, who
are grateful, finally, the Supreme Creator, the graceful presence will have granted them and
try as it is given to improve their work.

- What an afternoon! - She cried the handsome gentleman directing a sad stare counterclaim.

The
lady paid him with a gracious smile, replying at the same time mocking tone:

- Never too late if that is good.

And he took her hand and squeezed it gently, and then led him still
holding the through runners up a cabinet should be the release of
the young.

It was a luxurious room and artistically decorated, the walls lined
with dark blue satin curtains, pinned rings to the ceiling by running
for a bronze bar, chairs and armchairs in different ways and tastes,
a walnut writing table with wrought iron ornaments, next to a locker
with some books, two dozen or so.

Suspended from the ceiling by cords silk and attached to the wall
there hung some horse harness, chairs of various kinds are common,
bastard and outstanding rider in his stirrups, bridles from different
eras and countries, whips, sweatshirts fine worsted embroidery, gold
and silver spurs, all rich and new.

The hobby horse of the owner of that firm is also betrayed in the hallways, that from the front
door leading there, and everywhere hung frames and tables representing wild horses or incidental
thereto. Up to the bureau, the ink, paperweights and letter opener were carved in the form of
horseshoes, stirrups or whips. Through an arc to the columns, not closed by a rich tapestry portiere
fact which included a young man with coat and wig of a young woman kneeling before a suit Pompadour
stood a magnificent four-poster mahogany bed.

So I came to this chamber, the lady dropped carelessly in a very nice
armchair and returned to say with a mocking smile:

- What!

Are not you glad to see me?

- A lot, but I am glad to see you first. Hour and a half ago I'm waiting.

- So what? Do expect great sacrifice and a half to the woman he adores? Have not you read Leandro
spent every night by swimming the Hellespont to see his beloved?

... No, you do not you read that or anything .... Best: I think you
would set bad science.

Books dissipate these colorcito so cute you have in your cheeks,
you deprive them of agility and strength that ride on horseback, and
guides the car .... Besides, I think that there are men who are born
to be handsome, strong and funny, and one of them is you.

- Come
on, I watch what I regard as a brute who does not know the A - answered
sad and piqued the young man standing before her.

- No, man, no!
- Exclaimed the lady, laughing, and seizing one of his hands and kissed
in a sudden access of tenderness - .Eso is insulting.

Do you imagine that I could love a beast? ... Toma - said shedding
the hat - you put the hat on the bed carefully.

Now come here, so rogue, since you are so sensitive, do not you think you've begun telling rude?
... Hour and a half! ... So what? ... Come, kneel, let me pull a bit of hair.

The young, instead of doing so, grabbed a chair, smoking and mounted
it in front of his mistress.

- Do you know why I waited so long?

... As for the happy child, who has followed me today too.

In saying this, he became suddenly serious, a very pronounced wrinkles crossed her pretty face.

-
It's unbearable! - Added -. I do not know what to do. At all times,
leave by the morning or Later, I bring that ghost behind me. I had
to take refuge in the house of Mariana. Then once there, there was
no choice but to take a while. Dad came, and why not come out with
me I waited a little bit to that was .... There you see!

- It's funny
that guy! - The gentleman laughed.

- A lot! If you find out a lot
of fun to know where to go and then all world, and reaches the ears
of my husband's! Laugh, man, laugh!

- Why not? Who comes up with
more than you take a dislike to have a fan as platonic