 Let us imagine that this
wise not have written his philosophical works, for whatever reason had been carried to the
grave the secret of his admirable, if misplaced, fitness for deeper speculation metaphysical. It is clear
that this extraordinary man overwhelmed by its sublime and strange thoughts would not have been
in practical life or rich manufacturer, or merchant blissful and astute politician, and nothing
in this order, but had worked on polishing glass for lenses or make shoes, or any other office
or need a mechanic, and had not taken in pretense of being the genius to be a bum without a job
or benefit, and what is worse, not a bum fun and enjoyable, but a vague whining and crying or
maldicente, caustic and poisonous like snakes.

Apologize, then, or at least we indulge our Don Braulio, whose pride was hidden in the center of the
soul, revealing only the most intimate of his friends at the moment in which also showed the
deepest wounds of his heart.

Don Braulio had felt the need to trust their sentences to a friend,
in order not to drown; but otherwise this confidence, if something
was sinned by by concentrated and full of dissimulation.

His wife had not noticed this annoyance, that suspicion that suffocating
the soul.

His wife seemed to love him, but his happy nature and his early youth the excited the joy and
drove to work to distract and amuse.

Beatriz was not wasted, but ordered and economic.

It was, yes, ambitious and friend luxury and finery, and although not envy nor tormented despite
seeing other women, less attractive and less distinguished by nature, wear jewels, silks and
lace, go by car and surrounded by the bright halo that offers luxury beauty, longing enjoy all this
and could not quite hide her husband.

From here the pain and the starting point of the suspicions of Don Braulio.

If Don Braulio had not loved his wife, if he believed this longing irrational whim, may have cared
little of everything, but Don Braulio loved her, and also claims to be so consider the things
of life, Dona Beatriz had plenty of reason to covet. His desire, but take her to the end sorry for him,
was, he founded, and founded involuntary, fatal, accurate.

Don Braulio blamed himself, and not blame Dona Beatriz. Why had Dona Beatriz loved? Why had
married him? It was so cute and so young nor so handsome, neither as rich nor as glorious, it
was only by the higher understanding, he had seduced. If this understanding is evaporated, if good
for nothing, if he doubted Beatriz and perhaps rightly, what basis he had to keep loving Don Braulio?
Before ground was to hate.

Although it is a bad comparison, anyone who is not insane, buy a
rich cup China, an artistic Sevres porcelain vase to put in the yard
and throw it bran to eat the chickens. For this is more than enough
with a basin or a tinajón of Lucena. The glass art requires putting
on a beautiful lounge where: Pilgrim asked that flowers look at him.
Thus, a woman was asking Beatriz estate, gift, grace, worship, incense
ride in the car, not walk, to live in a palace, not in a third floor,
not hidden among the vulgar, but shine in the highest society.

In
thinking about this Don Braulio always said to himself: "Why I married
her?