 

It was the first of May. Poldy, almost desperate, and of seeing the stork came, not However,
as usual, between ten and eleven in the morning, at the edge of the lagoon.

Barely two minutes that was there, absorbed, pensive and melancholy setting long please look at
the calm water, when a hasty sound of wings coming closer his whole body shook and delight your
soul with pleasant shock. The white stork had been flying, had fallen a few steps away, and I
approached him with their slow and stately and giving way to the
peak of castañetazos that used to always say hello.

Indescribable was the joy of Poldy. His impatience was greater than his joy. Driven for their
impatience, threw his hands around the neck of wading birds, and began looking for the cord or tape
from which depends the answer to your letter expected. What a cruel affliction had then! No letter
was pending. No tape or cord was hanging. A point was Poldy to mourn with rage. But the stork, as if
divining her feelings, opened the long wings and to the point with joy and surprise Poldy warned
that the stork had under the left wing and very well tied there with
a strong and subtle braid feathers hid under a spliff or long thin
roll.

Poldy seized him immediately and felt it was very light, which was sealed and stamped and was
so strong rope seal and was so well-tied, he could not break not
occur without scissors.

On the exterior surface of the roll, it looked written in language German songs: To His Excellency
the gracious Miss Countess of Liebestein Poldy.

He Poldy some love to the stork in order to show his gratitude, and even some say he kissed her head
in glad tidings of good message. Poldy then ran to the castle lock herself in her room, cut the
tape with scissors and see what the roll contained. There on the roll several objects Poldy was successively
examined. It was a sight picture, neat and brilliantly illuminated with colors, an extensive
and magnificent Oriental room, full Pilgrim's workmanship and elegance. In any one could see and
admire stunning lap of luxury unblemished and very tasteful. It seems that was what the prodigious
underground chamber where Aladdin find the Genie Lamp. Hung from the walls bright weapons, Indian,
Chinese and Japanese, hanging ceiling lamps carved gold were around vases, jars and glasses,
artfully carved of precious metals, very rare jaspers of ancient porcelain and work ataujía
or fine gems, ivory, bronze and other rich materials. Several idols degustation of strange and
symbolic ways, and characterized the authorized stay. There were represented Agni, the god of fire,
Kamala or Kamela, Venus in India, whose name come, in our vulgar
language Camama, bluff and their derivatives, and there were also
Indra Varuna and even the Trimurti.

First, on a splendid Alcatifa of Persia, and sitting on soft cushions Silk, beautifully embroidered,
resembled a man in the prime of youth, covered of white and rosy robe and crowned the gentle head
of a large turban, candid also, on which stood a plume or tuft of curly feathers beautiful,
and grasped the plume the turban by a huge goatee of pearls, diamonds and rubies, which was worth
an empire. Before the man had several tables dwarfs, where golden and embossed trays, in light
baskets, in slender vases and chalices glazed, offered gift of sight of smell and taste, liqueurs,
preserves and spiced fruit. On one side and some distance the young lord, was a rich and elegant
hookah, which was flexible tube luengo young Mr. grabbed by the end, revealing the thick amber
mouthpiece, pinned to the tube by a ring of sparkling emeralds. On the opposite side of the hookah,
but much closer the young lord, rose, very funny pose, our familiar friend the white stork, Poldy
whose sight not a little pleased. Not so pleased, it was of anger and shock her, but repressed
anger, attributing what he saw long-standing and essential Oriental fashion, in the back of the room
came three Bayadere, with Apsaras suit or immortal nymphs, which wove voluptuous dance, desceñido
the transparent and light clothing, arms and feet bare, wearing down the throats of the feet and
arms, anklets and bracelets, and also revealing the back and turned round and firm breasts. Several
musicians, dressed as they say they dress the sky Gandarbas and musicians of Indra, accompanied
dance with harps, flutes and violins, and erotic songs.

Poldy was dazzled at the sight all this and formed the highest concept of radiance and wealth
of the Indian lord. Of its design staff is what the photograph does not idea was entirely satisfactory.
And it was that not the purpose of photography, and below which there was this sign: my way
of life in the East.

Another smaller picture, appeared as the young man with clearer details. Was alone, full body,
but without any attachment. His suit, although on picturesque, was more European than Indian,
but the strange hat on his head and was they call heroes in the Philippines. Dolman jacket
or tight to his body and adorned with frogs, revealed the robust forms of his torso and arms. The
pants were wide and short. From the knee to the soles wore calf boots. Earrings the wide Charpa,
also leather, belting his waist, had a gun to one side and On the other hand a large hunting
knife. In the right hand glove leather cover had double-barreled shotgun, which rested on the
ground and on which he supported. For low had a sign saying: when going to hunt tigers.

Finally, there was a third picture that left nothing to be desired. There was the young Mr. clear,
accurate and clearly portrayed. His face was so beautiful. The eyes were large and expressive,
the beard seemed silky, rich and very well kept and stroked. The nose, a as much as columbine,
gave a certain majesty to their expression. And the width and straightness of face showed unusual
intelligence. You could see in all its aspect of an indescribable kind, of sympathetic and distinguished
dearly. Their bare hands, yet strong and manly were aristocratic, very neat and pretty, with pointed
fingers at the tip and encanutadas nails, instead of being short and flat. In this portrait, the
young man was dressed entirely European use of any label, with a white tie and tails, so admirably
cut and that he liked so well, do not dream of better, or Frank, Vienna, or the tailor more Famous
London. On the low end of this portrait was another sign that read, in evening dress to go to
a dance of Lord Governor of India.

Bewitched Poldy was contemplating the portrait. Was captivated by the beauty and distinction of his distant
friend. And could not be confirmed in the belief that it was an Indian prince mediated, a nabob,
or at least a Brahmin or a Kshatriya of first order and a long stem.

Imagine now the reader the desire, the wonder, the palpitations of
joy and the rare delight Poldy'd read the letter, which also came
round and was conceived in these terms:

VIII

"I'm disgusted and
I find it hard to write letters giving the address to whom treatment,
and thus adopted the ancient custom of the Orientals.

You will allow me, a beautiful countess Poldy, which of course tute
you without ceremony.

The white stork, which nests years on the roof of the splendid house
which I own in flowery banks of the Ganges, I have brought welcome
news from you, your sweet words and your divine image.

Blessed is the white stork has made me much good. Rightly called I used to Garuda. Now I can
confirm this sacred name, with which my country is designated the God-king of all birds, the
winged destroyer of dragons and snakes.

I am extremely pleased that you are of noble removed, and old enough
to where it in a village a few centuries ago was still wild, lack
of documents and files that could prove the nobility of any person,
and the deeds of their parents.

These, wandering in the rugged jungles and harsh climate of northern countries, declined from
its forgot illustrious origin and the primitive culture of the Aryans from which Paropamiso, and
only recently have civilized, taking advantage of the studies and progress of men Noon. But what
is this what you want, you are relatively noble and just me, but my clear nobility yours preceding
two thousand years at least.

I speak frankly and disposal flattery and compliments. That will give more credit to my praise
sincere.

Garuda, whimsical and happy for my inspiration, I took some verses
that I was far much imagine that could fall into such beautiful hands.

I pondered them my disgust of what around me and the craving that consumes my soul, to find
the object, hidden and distant love to meet my aspirations, understand them and share them.

Your
picture and your writing have filled my vows. You are the woman of my dreams.

Venerable Brahmans, wise old here, who wrote of love in the Kama Sutra
and other speeches and treaties, require sixty-four powers, brands
or skills, to exist in reality Padmini or perfect woman.

I declare that, to see your picture and reading your words, you have discovered in the sixty-four
talents and you have enthroned in my heart as queen and lady, and I recognize in you my Padmini,
without whose love I can not have never bliss. Love me then, as I love you, and make me happy
as I want to what you are.

Nothing can oppose our future union. The distance does not matter. I will not take to save distance,
and the day when you least think, will appear at your side and you'll
see me on their knees to your plants, asking that corresponds to the
immense love that you inspire.

There is no longer in me as exotic and pilgrim prohibit you love me.

I own the ancient namely the Brahmins and Kshatriyas, whose combined breeds descend, but I
have studied and I also managed to acquire enough knowledge of modern Europe. And do not look to prevention
unfair, but with paternal affection, as our first shoot lush, high and fertile doctrines. You might
have noticed I do not write your language badly until I copied and almost translated into Sanskrit
verses of Goethe. I am not ignorant nor French literature, English and other peoples. And
when it comes to religion, I will say with all secrecy, because I do not even shock and disturb
my relatives and friends, Brahmins and Kshatriyas, which I have denied, three years ago, the
Brahmanical religion, and I've done in secret, as a Catholic Christian, as you are. This conversion
is due to some Jesuit Father of the Spanish nation, who came to this city, from the Philippines
and stopped us for some time. It was so enlightened man, so pious and so eloquent and mellifluous,
who managed to convince me. God bless him and bless him. Callo your name, for surely you do not mind
and I do not want to hurt his extreme modesty. Only say that my frequent dealings with this blessed
Father, born in my great love to the Spanish language and I purchased and read the best prose writers
and poets, which she have written or typed.

We also Callus my Indian name, because I will not spoil it and because
it is so convoluted, well to learn only spoken through the living
voice.

Be satisfied for now, know that the venerable Jesuit my catechist, he put the baptized, the name
Seville Isidore. Do not be fickle: love me and I forget: do not fall for any of these dandies
Hof-Adel the palate or nobility of Vienna: Be convinced that my nobility is at least as clearly
and without doubt far more tolerance than theirs. The chance of them consist in ancient scrolls,
but mine has authentic documents, written twenty centuries before the parchment was invented,
and many more centuries before it was used in Austria and counts among writing materials.

Love
me, again, and have faith and hope in my love. No need to find, but wait. Soon I see your feet,
worshiping exhausted and begging with all my heart that you are the Padmini your

Isidore. "

IX

Poldy was thrilled to infer and consider, for reading the letter that his Indian was famous
and rich and I was madly in love with her. Points were, however, in the letter, which called
up in the spirit of Poldy, repairs, contradictions and even complaints. Tired gallant nor boastful
and nothing seemed fine commendation made by the Indian nobility, with extreme prejudice and even
contempt for the Austrian nobility, but apologized and even Poldy absolved the Indian, guessing
that in this particular had to be somewhat soured as his character, that he being a descendant
of Crishna of Rama, the Pandu, or perhaps some Avatar, the incarnation of Vishnu, of whom
Mahavarata held, was subjected to the foreign domination of English rogues.

Poldy and apologized to his friend, but was far from him right. She thought that noble documents
are worth only if it has power, wealth and high position who displays them, and all this, but the
wealth was undermined and ruined the Indian at last was a humble subject of His Britannic Majesty
and any Englishman or any employee of the Treasury cavalry colonel could look at him from top
to bottom.

Poldy ran well, that he who overcomes and dominates the rightful heir is always the loser and
mastered. And this in all periods and regions. In the Middle Ages, for example, at an crossroads,
and in open palenque, ran into a knight with another, and to test the respective bravery or to
confess to the contrary, that his lady was the most beautiful, or twinkling of an eye, both
lunged furiously and were knocked released. Following fell down from the chair one of the two
gentlemen, and at the moment, all the glory of prowess, all the renown that his adventures
and exploits had earned him, were transferred the gentleman winner
as attachment or appendix.

Poldy also remember reading somewhere that, back in America, when a chief inexperienced, not
still had something to gain, was on hand to mouth with another veteran chief, his enemy, and celebrated
author of two hundred thousand atrocities, and struck him so bad blow with the baton knocked
down and beat him, all the chief fame veteran moved the chief inexperienced, and even general
belief was that the rookie was the impetus transfused and the boldness
of a veteran, especially if you drank the blood inexperienced or you
eat, raw or stew, after he died.

How much is deducted Poldy said, that the true nobility of the day, the Europeans, and very uniquely
the Germans, because they exercise with the advances and improvements in our century, all the
ancient arts of peace and war, which were identified and Assyrians ruled the world and Babylonians,
Medes and Persians, Egyptians, Phoenicians and Carthaginians, and
Greeks and Romans, whose all glory, excellence and privileges are
today, according Poldy, in short, number and compendium in his illustrious
compatriots, and therefore it too.

Nevertheless, and after making the necessary cuts, was pleased that
Poldy outside the Indian noble and even that was it contained llanísimo
naturalized without hof-fähig the slightest difficulty, and attending
to her to court when they were married.

As in Austria, as well as the nobility, Czech, Polish, Hungarian,
Romanian, Croatian, Serbian, Dalmatian, etc., there is of Irish, French,
Spanish and Italian, of course could also having Brahmanical and chatriesco
home.

Another thing, something that angered Poldy, was the presence at the picture of those three Bayadere
so lightly dressed, so little modest and restrained in their dances. But Poldy also be easy
on this Indian outrage, and if not excused, you explained and almost forgave him. The Indian
had Bayadere, and made that life broken, out of pure oriental, when he was still mired in the darkness
of paganism, but when thanks to the Jesuit priest, became the true
religion, Poldy amendment was to secure and neglect that had left
their vicious sport.

The only thing in this business was sorry he had not been the Indian his catechumens because she
had become better than Jesuit priest, and had not given him the stack baptismal name as ugly
as that of Isidore. Poldy perhaps unaware that there had been a saint Archbishop of that name,
famous scholar, who collected and ordered their books all know of his time, and was in line
with what he had heard from an old princess, her aunt, terrible anti-Semitic, which persisted in asserting
princess's name was very common Isidoro among Jews, where he hated in such a way that had temptations
to dismiss an excellent because of his servants named Isidoro, and
just resigned himself to keep him in forcing service Filidoro renamed
onwards.

Moreover, Poldy could not be happier or more satisfied. The Isthmus of Suez, just opened and
already sensed Poldy through the channel, saving the Strait of Bab-el-Mandeb,
and browsing the Eritrean Sea, heading towards India, to visit the
villas, gardens and palaces of her young husband.

It's coming and could not take much, and Poldy was dying of impatience to see him live and not
painted, body and soul, not in picture. What aroused his curiosity and tickled brain soft fabrics
Padmini was the condition that he gave the young Indian. Was anxious to read or read to him
the Kama Sutra, and the sixty study well there and four skill or
excellence of Padmini, to search for it and convince themselves that
possessed them and that was not flattering to his friend.

In short, Poldy was anxious and exhilarated, but with concern and
joy, full of sweet hope and love and poetic ventures.

X

Too distracted or too poring Garuda had to walk, when not shown in the margin of the lagoon
where Poldy going to look every day.

The Indian also was as invisible as Garuda.

Poldy pined with impatience, and sometimes imagined that his youth would fade as pink ajar, within
which, where no dew fell, penetrating rays of the sun the summer season.

In fact, he was to end and the month of June and the Indian had not appeared.

One morning, as usual, between ten and eleven, became Poldy of the lagoon, where in vain had sought
the stork.

Tired and sad, in the middle of the path where the castle was returned, Poldy sat at foot of an elm,
in a rustic seat, and the most lush, intricate and beautiful the park. A crystal stream ran
close whispering. Margin grew white and purple violets and other non-cultivated flowers that
perfumed the air with soft and pleasant fragrance.

Flowery climbing roses and other plants that are stuck to the trees, and passing from tree to tree
other festoons and garlands, there were mysterious and secluded bush
venue.

Sitting and Poldy, pondered, and had to be distracted by such art, which, as commonly it is said,
was the saint to heaven.

What was his astonishment and what was his joy when noise and suddenly felt no time to recover,
saw the arrival of a gentle knight, he approached and came to be
respectful and knelt at his feet.

Impossible to doubt.

Was the original of the three portraits in photography. Stylish dress was hunter costume, but
without weapons, because it was already going to hunt tigers, but
pigeons.

And pith helmet instead of east, covering his head a jaunty fedora
adorned with a feather eagle.

The young man knocked to the ground and discovered the black hat and abundant curls of her head,
before his knees.

Deep was the emotion of Poldy.

Her heart was leaping in his chest. The young man seemed much more beautiful than the original
pictures, and when he heard his voice, Argentina, melodious and rich and soft persuasive tones
that steal prudence and calm, he could barely stand and thought he would faint.
In that situation was not any dialogue possible. What could be said
the two lovers? How what sentences would be correct in what superhuman
language to express their feelings agitators?

Only he said:

- Here
I am, Poldy. Yours is my life. I want to be and I'll be yours forever.
I love you, I will idolize, I adore you.

What was there to answer
Poldy, dumbfounded, radiant with joy, and love and decency struggling
in his soul?

He, however an effort and stood up, though troubled
and uncertain.

Then he got up too and pressed it irresistible and
lovingly in his arms. Then, pressing her face to hers and covered
it with kisses your forehead, cheeks and rosy lips.

Poldy met at
last the danger was, he was ashamed of giving in so easily who saw
and heard for the first time, and, giving his injured forces decency
rejected violence to her lover, fell off his arms, and sought shelter
for their audacity desalted fleeing and taking refuge in the castle.

Alone
in his stay, he said Poldy of his fear, he managed to calm down, and
at the bottom of his soul could not fail to grant his pardon to the
Indian prince. What will not forgive a young woman graceful and elegant,
very much in love her, and coming to look and offer his hand from
as far away countries