 Was afraid that the patient could remember what
she had done in the most critical moments, when I was pretty sure was to die.

- Now to sit still - continued Valls -. Stay here until we go together Palma. You know me ...
I know everything, I arrange everything ... Huh? "I mean ...?

The chueta winked and laughed mischievously, confident in his ability
to divine the wishes friends.

Famous Captain! Since I was in Can Mallo, everyone seemed aware of their mandates, admiring him
as a powerful figure and jovial. Margalida ruborizábase with their words and winks, but I wanted to
see him so dedicated. He recalled his eyes filled with tears one night we all thought he was
going to die Don Jaime. Valls had wept while mumbling curses. The Chaplain also loved to that
great lady of Mallorca from where he was laughing to learn that they
thought it heals.

Pep and his wife followed him as obedient dogs and submissive.

Paul spoke several evenings and sick of past events.

The captain was a man quick in his decisions.

- You know that I never tire when it comes to a friend. On landing in Ibiza saw the judge. That
will be fixed, you're right and we all recognize: self-defense.

A few annoyances when you're good, but nothing in the end ... The matter of your health is
also resolved.

What more left? ... Ah, yes! Anything else is, but I have it in point of settlement.

Rio maliciously as he spoke, Febrer shaking hands, and this, in turn,
would not ask more, afraid of being disappointed.

Once, upon entering the bedroom Margalida, Valls took her arm, bringing
it together the bed.

- Look at her! - Said with mock seriousness,
please contact the sick -.

Is this the same as you want? Do not you changed it? ... Dale, then
hand, silly.

What are you doing, watching with frightened eyes? ...

The two shook hands right hand Febrer Margalida. Ay! Was it true what
they say Captain?

... His eyes sought the atlota, which remained low, whereas emotion whiten his cheeks and did
beat the wings of his nose.

- Now, kiss - Valls said, gently pushing the girl toward the patient.

But Margalida, as if it is threatened by a danger, broke loose from their hands, fleeing Room.

-
Well - said the captain -. And shall kiss you in a while: when I'm gone.

Valls approve of this marriage. Does Febrer wanted? Go ahead ... This was more logical the marriage
with his niece for the millions of father. Margalida was a great woman. He understood of these
things.

When James take her out of the island, used for other purposes and other costumes, with the
ease of assimilation with the females for every good thing, no one would recognize the old peasants.

-
I've fixed your future, small inquisitor. You know that your friend gets the Jew always proposed.
You look in Majorca to live on modestly. Do not shake your head: I know you want to work, and
now that you're in love and want to start a family. Will work, between the two started a business:
there are to choose from.

I always wear head cluttered with projects: a thing of the race ... If you prefer to go to Mallorca,
I'll look for a foreign occupation ... It is a matter to be thought.

In all matters relating to the family of Can Mallorquí, the captain spoke with an authority master.
Pep and his wife did not dare disobey. How to argue with a man who knew everything! ... The
peasant oppose little resistance. And Don Paul wanted the marriage
to Margalida Mr. and gave word that this would not bring any misfortune
to atlota, could marry. It was a great misfortune to see two old men
off the island, but preferred this sorrow to keep him like a son Febrer,
inspired respect them irresistible. 

By Chaplain stopped short of
kneeling before Valls. And yet they say in Palma if chuetas bad! ...
It is well known that the speakers were Mallorca: unfair and proud
people! ... The captain was a saint. Thanks to him, I would not go
to seminary. It would be peasant, Can Mallorquí was for him. Until
he had recovered from his father, through the intercession of Don
Pablo, the knife given by Febrer, and had the promise of a modern
gun's present captain one of these miraculous weapons had admired
in Palma in the windows of the terminal