 Montaner is not about justice and reason the
fact, but only favor those who sought his help, and put under his protection. They gave him then arms,
horses, and other things to put in order their own, coming up fifty people gave him relief,
because Montaner as the mortal enemy of Genoese, would not missed the opportunity to make some
damage. A Juan Montaner his cousin, and four directors Catalanes relief was entrusted with the order
which fails to take something without taking views of Ticino Jaquerio. Gallipoli left to another
day of Palm Sunday, with a well-armed galley, and four vajeles minors. Sailed around Fruilla
Castle, where it was Easter Eve and night. The sense of grievance Jaquerio boy carried out his
determination. He landed his people the silence of the night, and pulled their scales. They
went through them thirty Genoveses those of Jaquerio, and fifty Catalanes. Then came the day
that were discovered, and they defended the entrance, but fighting bravely won a door of inside,
and open, gave free entry to the others who were outside. Bearing was great resistance at
first by those who defended the castle, who spent five hundred men, not so well armed as ours, not even
resolved. Killed up to one hundred and fifty of the enemy. There was some captives, but most fled
to escape. El Castillo won, the town Greeks which was unguarded was undertaken then, before the
natives could be in resistance, or hide his income. Dam was rich, because more than gold, and
silver and clothing at prices gained, led to three major relics that were in the castle committed
by the Turks, the Genoese Benito Jaquerio. Tradition that had for San Juan Evangelista had left
in the tomb, whom we mentioned above. The Relics were a piece the wood of the Cross, the part where
Christ rested his head. This is referred Montaner, and he brought it to John will always mindful of
the neck while he lived among mortals. He was then a set with gold, with jewels of great price.
A dawn with the Santo was saying Mass, carved by the hands of the Virgin and Epocalypsis written
by the Holy with covers of admirable art, and wealth. Appeared to Juan Montaner, and to Ticino
Jaquerio Fruil that was far from the prisons so that it can sustain itself, and thus dismantled.
Satisfied Genovese of his uncle, and everyone else who won gold with which they returned to
Gallipoli and gave to Ramon Montaner and others to their fair share, and the relics he received
by Fortunately the wood of the cross, would certainly have come to these kingdoms, if he Negroponte
other farm run-off will not steal this great treasure. Encouraged by the success last Ticino
Jaquerio, seemed to undertake any business, and earn some place where he could be a seat. Montaner
also gave him for this some people, and soon after she won a castle the island of Tarsus,
and kept him, not without great benefit of our nation, as we shall see.

CHAPTER XLIX.

The infant D. Fernando, son of the king of Mallorca, the envoy of
King D. Frederic, arrives at Gallipoli to govern the army in his name.

Divided masters Nona sites and Megarix, Prince D. Fernando, son King of Mallorca, with four
galleys arrived at Gallipoli, by order of King of Sicily D. Frederic, because it judged that mattered
to increase your home by sending person put his hand govern the army of the Catalans of Thracia,
because they themselves had called and given oath of allegiance, perhaps not remembering that this
had been five years earlier when the necessity forced them, and then may have difficulty in
admitting. Took the infant this day to his office to serve the king only, it is commissioned,
with word that France would not marry without their consent, and that govern those states
on their behalf. Such estimation was done when they saw those weapons superior to those of the
empire, who do not want your obedience aside kings, even for an infant of house. Don Frederic,
prince of singular prudence, and large master the art of rule, would not pawn her reputation
in our arms, because the tube at a loss when asked relief, or stated by Andronico enemy until he
saw no strength to defend itself but the accidents were so different from what was assumed that the
resolution of the king so particular reason, came as we shall see, to not have the effect they
would have if before help them. The coming of the infant gave notable content to those who
were then found in Gallipoli particularly to large Montaner servant and passionate about his
home. Admitieronle as a lieutenant King without difficulty or reply all who were present, although
there were few, be the first they were thanked by the king. Enviaronse then post to the three chief
captains, Entenza, Rocafort, and Fernando Jiménez, informing them of the coming of infant, and
together they sent the letters from the king who came to them, giving reason how came to rule
in his name. Montaner gave fifty horses for his service, and greater number of mules that were
necessary for your home, and because the inn was Montaner of the best from Gallipoli was out of
it, and handed the infant. Berenguer de Entenza was Megarix on site thirty miles from Gallipoli,
where he received the notice of the coming infant by the two gentlemen who Montaner EMBI order
to give him, together with King's letter. They set out with few, and arrived at Gallipoli the first
of the captains. Dio the welcome to the infant, and swore by his general and supreme head. Then
after he came Fernan Modico Jimenez Arenas, and went around to Berenguer. Mejoróseles party
to these two rich men, because its less powerful Vando always feared the Rocafort, and with
the coming the infant seems that everything had to calm down, and things outside of their homes
by violence one, again to his, and everyone would be estimated according to their merits, and
quality. Was universal contentment at all, so the Vando de Berenguer, as Rocafort, whom altered
so much coming out of time the infant, and no doubt which of course denied obedience if it were not
met in their own taste that had given them this new. Found himself in considerable confusion
was shrewd man, and warned in its advice, but could not prevent with their usual arts which
could never fear. After consulting with his intimate friends case, it appeared that Agreement is showing
a lot like the coming of the infant, only wish them all, and that, as the site so forth dared
not leave for going to give the obedience, which begs the part of all, to come to where they
waited Nona gladly. This substance is said to the infant, and between both the bereaved, friends
and confidants, provided the courage to follow his advice and counsel. Came the reply Rocafort
to Gallipoli, and the infant would not be determined without the advice of Berenguer de Entenza,
and Fernando Jimenez, and some other captains well affected to his service, and knowledgeable of trace
and designs of Rocafort. All seemed dangerous to arrest, and who was from the infant then, because
the army will not cool in the taste he had of his coming, Rocafort and did not have time to
finish or move new talks a disservice to the king and government to exclude him. This resolution provided
for the child he left, was accompanied Most of the people of Berenguer de Entenza, and Fernando Jimenez,
his people do not seemed to carry because it was not right before they won the will of Rocafort,
and of their own, set before the first entry in a better place competitors include the infant;
and so deferring the way these two rich men when the infant had sworn, because then being
with full authority could make friends.

CHAPTER L.

The infant is excluded from government by the wiles of Rocafort.

Gallipoli departed the infant with the most support he could, bringing
the known only to masters Ramon Montaner, and in three days' journey
along the coast came to the field, where he was received with universal
rejoicing, and large demonstrations Rocafort content I celebrated
the days it took to put into discussion the orders of his uncle.

Expected infant that Rocafort comidad without returning a second
time to requerille, but as he saw that lengthened the obey the king,
and no it was understood, he said he wanted to give then the letters
of king who came to the army, and say in words the intent of his coming,
and that sent along this general advice.

Rocafort obeyed with pleasure samples, and the next day offered to have him along, because in
the few days it took the infant, warned his friends that voice cast them into the country, it would
be good tread very gingerly in the resolution that should be taken to admit the child by the
king, at least not determined later. This with a lot of art made himself, because he always
feared that seeing the army the infant is not cheering to the king, and he admitted. It seemed
to all informed and sensible advice; For the vulgar ignorant rarely penetrates ulterior motives,
and so followed him. The next day the confusing multitude of general advice that consisted
of all those who earned salary, together in the field, I hope the infant. He was accompanied
by his household, and many captains, gave the letters to a secretary, and ordered to be read
publicly. Defended them briefly stated as the king moved his pleas had accepted the oath of
allegiance, they did their ambassadors, and even to their kingdoms could not be useful to undertake
his defense, had wanted to show the love they had, porponiendo a convenience to that of them, and
commanded him to come with him to rule in his name and offered them I always would come with greater
relief. Rocafort They answered as intended, they have agreed on what should be done, and that
made him reponderian. With this the left the infant, and went to his inn. Rocafort was with
them, and unsure of the determination that so many people together could take, and fearing some
gentlemen, that although they were their friends, wanted the infant stay governors, they said
the case was dicurrirse could not well among many, because the crowd always brings confusion,
the which does not give rise to often regarded by the difficulties that are usually offered
in so weighty, that fifty people were chosen the highest trust and confidence, for that they
were talking, and runs the business with the conveniences and opposites in the had, and made the resolution
that they liked, the others referred to, for together freely condemn or approve, with which the
drawbacks of having escusarian to communicate with so many. Gave himself up for those of Rocafort
successful that when the mob is inclined to give credence to one at all remains, without regard to
the good, or bad advice because most rules with the will to reason. Then named fifty people,
so that together with Rocafort, treat, not noticing how much more readily You can bribe the few
than the many. This had made it their business, because the fifty were almost all made by hand,
and them some who could not be trusted also that Moreover, it was easy to persuade, to more
than there was reason, and much foundation; enforce theirs. Fifty were assembled with Rocafort,
and he said the following. The coming Mr. Infante, friends and colleagues, has been one of the
biggest and happiest events we might wish, at last sent by the mighty hand of who to this
day has preserved with great increase in our name, and confusion of our enemies, because has put
an end to our work, and principles to a very full happiness, to have clothes so characteristic
of our kings, to whom we can deliver security, freedom, and life receiving him not as he wants
for his uncle, Lieutenant, but as absolute ruler, and restraint and without any dependence.
As big mistake would be if the election of Prince depends on us, choose the one who lives away, and
rule over occupied states, and let the unemployed and free of other obligations and has to live forever
among us, and run the same fortune of prosperous events, and adverse. If received by Don Frederic
king, says easement we hold, because with his person may not assist us, and necessarily who
will send on behalf of the victorious army rule, and the provinces by it are subject. What greater
misfortune can be expected if a reward for our victories, come to be ruled by another hand
than our own prince?. And the king don Fadrique seek our defense who is not estorváre to the
kingdom of Sicily. Why, why he has to admit such inequality?. The work, hazards, loss to ourselves,
but the glory and profit, not only equal, but greater and more secure for king. If we miss being
dead, or in hard bondage, free Fadrique, and such great prince as before, but if we win new provinces,
and states have all come to be own. What then can any sane with this inequality, being free
to choose, give obedience to the prince with such qualities?. In addition to this Can not
remember the pay they gave us for many services from Sicily?. What was just a little biscuit,
and other things they can not refuse his servants, and slaves!. No, friends, we should make
him king Don Manufactures, since it is not remembered us while we asked their help, and when
we matter both give it to us, but when he agreed to, and to us are not helpful. This is done well to see
now, they do not send us weapons, people, supplies, or money, or else needed for the war,
but overall head and rule over us as if we Failing this, not many victories have been achieved without
having you put into their own hands. Does not consent to the award of our services are distributed
by the hand of his ministers, and governors, who can always be more passion than truth, more
particular interest the common use, because they treat the provinces like one who has to leave,
as in the temporary possession of property of others enjoy the present, without any care of
what is to come, and more being so secluded king, whom our complaints will be late if they are
hearsay, and relief so long as I now send us after six years with great instance we ask. In
this eventually I work out, which excludes D. By Frederic D. Fernando, we present the prince
who ventured life and witness, as to be judge, the services we did and take care of us like
himself, because our preservation and life go hand in hand with it. D. Be content Fadrique to Sicily
won and retained by our value, let Don His nephew Fernando war work uncertain and dangerous,
these provinces destroyed, and only the hope of conquering new kingdoms and chiefdoms. In this
talk a few doubtful that he had apparently resolved with Rocafort, and then two of the fifty
elected gave reasons for the determination they had taken to the entire field, referring to
the same reasons Rocafort.