 I pass over in silence, not to annoy the reader and because I tittle of neat and perhaps the greedy,
the pastries made of flour and lard in pella, the manifold cakes, among which stands the cake
or bun maimón; the nuego, polvorones, the sopaipas, syrups, and the canine, exquisite, despite
the cute little name they lead. But why not stop in the praise of some pies because, in my opinion
delicious, and so depriving themselves and there, a woman who was not born in Cordoba not possess
the crux never knead divinum that is required, and struck him due firing point? These empanadas
are, in that sense, incommunicable. Although larger scale what happens to them with frosting Jijona,
who instantly called counterfeiting. May well have learned the most authentic recipe cook, accurate,
thorough, these empanadas; I bet she does not, if it is not my province. Who has not eaten such
empanadas will seem abhorrent, consisting the anchovies or sardines stuffed with a picadillo tomatoes
and onions, pies are made with chocolate, but that's the truth, and are good, although it seems
unlikely.

Not new this art of baking and pastry, and its flowering between Cordoba.

According to a reliable written, little has been reprinted and released (the true story of Lozana
Andaluza), this art flourished as early as the sixteenth century. That famous woman, who was Cordoba,
made with remarkable perfection almost all this you have lied, but the author refers you to
run without stopping much as we do in the matter. Tested leaves, however, was already then eastern
gay knowledge in the education of my countrywomen, and that mothers daughters has been transmitting
it to date by means of tradition. So any Cordoba, if not maimed and has medium caletre may
boast on the day, as more than three centuries boasted the Lozana, if modesty allows, which
surpasses Platina In voluptatibus and Roman Apicius De re coquinaria.

In all, about the latter (with regard to proper cooking), no talking
frankly, as much to boast about at the bakery.

This art, including in it, although it seems crazy, everything about the killing, is in the
province of Cordoba, an art more liberal, less given to mercenary hands. There is hardly noble,
by swanky and lazy it is, that, as we have said, do not work in these businesses within and colla
col hand. And adobo seasoning, and his white right hand made the sausage dressing, and fill as
it embudito chorizo ??with tin, and click the black pudding for them comes out air, using a
knitting needle or a fork off of her beautiful hair.

Often, indeed, come home, in the days of slaughter, or in the preceding Night-good when making a
thousand sweets, or during harvest, to make the syrup and porridge
wine, or just before Easter, to solemnize with pancakes, fritters,
and Piñonate gajorros, a woman adept, three or four that are always
at each site, which takes the lead everything, but very rarely Mrs.
abdicates in this woman completely and removes all responsibility.

This woman is nothing but a helper, an alter ego. Who really addressed is the housekeeper. And the love
it gives only the direction, or to speak with rigorous exactness, no the sag or resigns, but
shares the responsibility and divided the empire, when given the happy circumstance that there is any
woman who is an inspired genius, with mission and vocation unique to such matters. This was so
in my place with a woman named Juana la Larga She died already, and it is certain that has
left an heiress daughter of arcane procedures: but genius is not inherited, and the daughter
of Juana la Larga not arrive, or by far reached where His mother is much less long at all, as
many people recognize and declare competent have met one and other.

In the kitchen with the daily dish, very different proceeding. A woman carefully and home will have
what is wise, go to the pantry, give orders, but the actual cooking left entirely to the care of
the cook. From here it lapsed art. Cordovan cuisine was certainly original and great. Today is
a ruin, as the palace of Medina Azahara and Almunia lovely gardens. Only a few traces remain, giving
signals, which are like relics of past greatness, remains a skilled
cook archaeologist could restore Dog and restored the ancient monuments
of Rome.

It would need a technical expertise that I lack, to characterize the cuisine here in Cordoba,
excellent, though ruined, and to define and distinguish it from other kitchens diverse peoples,
languages ??and tribes of the globe.

The reader will forgive me almost profane to speak on this important
matter.

I believe that, without underestimating the French cuisine, private
and prevails today in the world, there remains as rooted in Cordoba,
which should not be underestimated.

Who knows whether they will still OPIM denatured fruits without grafts,
but retaining the castizo be having?

Beans, despite the anathema of Pythagoras, that perhaps condemned
as an aphrodisiac, are the main food of the peasants in my home.

The stew that prepare them, called ultimate kitchen is delicious. I doubt that the more scientific
French chef, without further than beans, oil, cloudy, cloudy arch-vinegar, pepper, salt and
water, can make something so rich as that cooking beans prepared by any woman in Cordoba. The
gazpacho, the garlic-white and gazpacho, I say the same, will be bad, make a thousand faces
and fussiness ladies Madrid if you eat, but take the ingredients, combine them, and we'll see
if they produce something better.

Moreover, the gazpacho, within the tight rustiqueza bread,

And the
red peppers and garlic hard

that mainly consists, must pass through
fine arts creation of delight on especially if it has been well beaten
by strong and long cuffs and a wide trough.

As the gazpacho, healthy in hot weather and after the harvest chores,
and has something classical and poetic.

    Gazpacho was nothing more than what, according to Virgil, in the
second Eclogue, Testilis preparing for entertainment and refreshment
of the weary reapers

Allia, serpyllumque, Herba contundit olentes.

Let's talk about the pot, stew, cochifrito, garlic chicken and other dishes, not having Cordoba
different character than in other Andalusian provinces. Just say something in defense the alboronía,
for having made fun of her a keen writer, my friend, and for providing
us modern science a means to justify and even to prove, or to trace
at least the old Cordoba kitchen was a kitchen almost aristocratic
or royal, who has been degenerating.

    Sage Dozy Orientalist shows that the inventor of the alboronía, or
who gave it its name, was Sultana nothing less than the Boran, beautiful,
distinguished and comm'il faut among all Princesses East.

Perhaps the creator of the alboronía dedicated his invention to the Sultana, as do Today the
most famous chefs, devoting her cooking and assigned the name of some illustrious character. Thus
there is the Chateaubriand steak, salmon Chambord, and other seasonings the Soubisse, the Bismarck, the
Thiers, the Empress, the Queen and Pius IX. To more concise name deleted from the stew and it is
only the glorious character; where anyone eats a Pius IX or Chateaubriand, without incurring cannibalism.

Without
doubt, and, given the irrefutable assertion of Dozy, the alboronía comes from the Sultana Boran,
cake and maimones maimón, which are a way of soups, must come of Califa, Boran aforementioned
husband, whose name was Maimon, since it does not come from the great philosopher Jewish Maimonides
was Cordoba, and compatriot, therefore, the maimones, soup, cake and bun.

Force is to confess, despite the above, that these things have been perverted. They are like
proverbs, they were statements of the ancient sages and have come to abasement, or as some
families of clear lineage, which have fallen into poverty, low and
dark.

Pity is, of course, that this happens; as the first elements are fine for cooking in the province
of Cordoba.

Among the rock rose, tamarisk, mastic and durum, the thickness of the craggy mountains, shaded
of the tall pines and oaks copudos, courageous run wild boars and
roe deer and deer light: across the fertile countryside abound hare,
rabbit, partridge and even the big ssion, and all kinds of pigeons
from the dove to zurita.

As soon begins to blacks and mature olives, thrushes come from Africa, curdling the air with animated
clouds. The goldfinch the oriole, the old man and the green happy with their songs of spring love.
The large Guadalquivir gives huge buttery shad and pike, and frog legs are soft and eels all the
rivers and streams.

Would proceed if I tell here infinite products the plant kingdom, the Flora of the land beloved
of heaven, on which, as popular conviction and strong belief, is vertically placed at the zenith,
the throne the Holy Trinity. Suffice to know that the thousand or so gardens are a paradise Cabra.
There if it was even fashionable mythology, we might say he put his throne Pomona, and extending
in this, and without the slightest hyperbole, either add that Palestine has its throne in the
chapels, Ceres in the fields which extend between Baena and Valenzuela, and Bacchus in his Moriles
which surpasses all the wine of Jerez.

The Cordoba looks with disdain all this, or because it is common and does not give money or by its
spiritualism delicate. However, some women are careful to look rich fruit and other rare acclimate
so far in those regions, such as strawberries and raspberries. Cordoba also usually have a well
populated poultry chickens, ducks and turkeys, which she feeding and fattening itself, and it does
look, though rarely, the tiger out of tune and chicken of Guinea. The pheasant is still an animal
for my countrywomen as fabulous as the phoenix, bicípite tap or the eagle.

Which looks real and is primarily the management of Cordoba is inside the house. The verses in
which Schiller praised his countrywomen, could a fortiori apply to mine. German is not that described
by the great poet is the mother of my province or my place

Him in the kingdom that sends prudent; Restrain the child and the child instructed, Never for
laborious hand, Whose ordered tino In rich flow increased reflows.

How is busy! How from the dawn of the barn is the winery, and cellar to the pantry! I glimpse
the lower web and makes the point that the sweep, if not sweep herself! How to clean the dust from
all furniture! With what care up in the closet or saved in the ark or the clean comfortable
bed and table linen, perfumed with lavender!

      She overboard with delicacy, and never
    forgets a thousand stitches, lace, hems
    and green beans that in the crumb
    taught him, and he
    did and met a rich sampler, which remains a sweet memory.

It is not linen shirt or cotton do not check or sock which does not overshadow and collect points,
Darn tear or not, or not mend broken. If rich, she and her husband and her children are always
neat and well dressed. If he is poor, the Sundays and major holidays ark out of the bottom
of the well-preserved galas: Manila shawl or shawl, rich saya and blanket for her, and her husband
a shirt embroidered with birds and flowers, white Snow, a velvet waistcoat, a strip of red
or yellow silk, a Marseille patched some chaps with double silver buttonwood and crutch, and a neatly
embroidered boots Silk in the well tanned calf. Above all this, to go to church or any other ceremony
or visit fulfilled my countryman becomes the layer. It would be a lack of decorum, almost in
contempt, presented without her even point the thermometer thirty degrees of heat. Indeed, coating,
as every garment cut and ruddy, the person pays a certain extent, and dignity, solemnity.
This is not to say that in my land should not be abused layer. I remember a doctor who visited
us in place, when I was child, who never abandons us, was wrapped in it and not blatant even to take
the pulse, taking him for top of her veil. It is clear that he is not removed layer never less took
off his hat, but on very solemn occasions. Man is neither sleep is taken away, bringing to the face
to defend it from the sun or light, if he sleeps outdoor nap, and it leads to the rubble or neck,
holding with hand to greet the people most respect and deference I deserve. But back our Cordoba.

Strives
poor or rich, as I said, at home. In some rooms there is already papered, but the common thing the
enjalbiego, which will be rude and rustic if you like, but rejoices with whiteness and gives every
appearance of cleanliness. The same love, if he is poor, if not the maid, enjalbiega often throughout
the house, including the facade. This mania reached such a whitewash end, a lady from my place,
some years ago, whitewashed his piano, the first arrived there. There are now many good, even
rosewood, and the dozens ladies and girls who play and sing.