 

Rather than overwhelm Faust, as he emptied the Holy Land, Mephistopheles will laugh with his
appearance, leaving the dog's body, surrendered to the charms and threats. When Fausto forces
him to define himself, Mephistopheles defines a part of that force which always wants evil and
always does good.

Mephistopheles wants to destroy vitiate and corrupt, but can only
do this as a retail attends to the general good and the whole creation
and continuous, much against his liking.

Faust, by signing a pact with him, treats him as superior to inferior, as a master to a servant;
and is almost certain that the devil will never win the bet will not give you what they want. Not
only does not fall, so to speak, under the jurisdiction and power of the devil much desired
by Faust, but not even understood by the evil spirit, because it is in regions above, to the
spirit that never soars. In the genius, who lives in Faust inner strength is a thousand times more
powerful than all the powers of the devil. The trouble is that this force is not exerted himself
out of Faust. It creates an ideal way as you: outside can do nothing. But those things ideals,
Fausto creates itself, conceived and desired, the devil only the
minimum and less worth can do in the outside world, nor be even understand
them.

Even Mephistopheles, thanks to the poet's fancy has to be proper and independent personality,
yet, for us to conceive better essence, we figurárnosle as a result of psychological analysis
of the soul of Faust. It is the most bestial and earth of the soul, Part clever and smart, which serves
to provide enjoyment, wealth, power, authority and influence in this world, part Faust had
neglected and even wasted and discarded, to be delivered their higher wisdom. Disabused of these
high wisdom, and anxious for everything that he despised them, it
seems that returns to it that most dastardly of his soul, under the
form and with being a devil.

The under diabolical about Fausto and for other spirits higher no never denies. Science, progress,
higher level of human souls have the devil made a character more or less. His power is not
exercised and indisputable but in a wretched world, including gross, who strive to play and win
money to look men, and that by chance something will go either to say they have understanding,
and between little old ignorant and vicious, they have some secrets and recipes, ignoring the
why and the how, wonders the same act, such as the witch and cats
and monkeys who serve and accompany.

Faust feels so reduced to appeal to the foul witch potion in order to recover the youth, that's
almost about to become old and breaking the covenant from the beginning
with Mephistopheles little suspecting that the devil can, and counts
and as little that he can wait a noble spirit.

The property is worth so little devil and evil. On top of the devil, and no good, no evil immensely greater
than that Mephistopheles can never heal the soul of Faust. Faust, for get some good of the devil,
and to submit to their rule, have to stifle the aspiration top of his soul. When lives and
breathes with her, the devil does not give the slightest relief the
torments that occurs, but also the soul completely removes any influence
of devil, and laughs of all covenants.

In the rare theogony of Goethe, the devil is not only below what supernatural term and look
at the aspirations of the soul of Faust, but also far lower than natural, As it is natural
and divine creator. Therefore, in the plebeian society stupid the coven, where for a moment Fausto
trap for fools, Mephistopheles struts and triumphs; but in the second half when, with the effort
of the will and the miracles of knowledge Intelligence and Fausto, displayed the geniuses
ancient Greece, imagined, all those personified powers of nature creative and intelligent, Mephistopheles
shrinks, humiliated and almost cringe; Mephistopheles has to hide and disguise under the ugly appearance
one of the Forquiadas.

Not only in power, but even in ugliness than those Mephistopheles old creations.

Although it quickly, without stopping matter how big claims, so as
not to exceed and give this work an improper extension of the object
that is intended, something must be said the second part of Faust.

Several people have called the Bible completely FAUSTO pantheism.

Nothing seems more unfair. Pantheistic Goethe was not resolved, but if any of his works are
inclined to pantheism is not true FAUSTO, where rather contradicts him.

It is true that to say that we must assume that we understand the second part, and is common opinion that
no one understands.

Perhaps, the same as the Bible called pantheism which, logically, implies that the understanding,
the last name of the seven seals book, delirium, maze, perpetual enigma. We may seem paradoxical,
and we imputed to arrogance, affirm the opposite: everything is very clear in the second half.

Where, if not, is the dark? What is? What from?

The smooth style, concise, lapidary, epigraphic, and full accuracy of Goethe, arrives, in this
second part, to last limit of sharpness, elegance bare of litter and unnecessary adornments, and sobriety
meaningful and purposeful.

How, then, with such style that the vague, uncertain, indecisive, which nobody understands, or
perhaps the poet who wrote it? This can not be.

The alleged non-intelligence of the second part can only be explained by two ways. And both, not
Faust, but the work clearer and more flat will become unintelligible. El Quijote for instance.

Although we do not believe in the transcendental epic, comprehensive and all-teachers, we believe
that the poet sings sometimes what is not said, goes beyond the point reached by the scientific
man reflection and study, and predicts and foretells, and rises to unexplored areas, where human
knowledge not arrived yet, but if everything is in the rhythm or pure poetry, it is useless translate
it into prose.

It is not useless, it is impossible. In prose is unspeakable. It would be so foolish claim like
trying to explain the effect of the best symphony, and still produce the same, making a speech about
the symphony. But if the important thing is the rhythm, and dialectically revealed in the phrase,
everybody will understand, without translation or comment. At that understand what may decírsele
what the gentleman from La Mancha or the parish priest once said
to barber complained about not understanding a poet: "Nor is it necessary
that you understand, Senor rapist.

"

Even poetry and prose of poetic, profound truths can be enclosed under the veil of allegory
or symbol, but one of two things: either a symbol and allegory are transparent or not. If so,
everything looks clear. If not, can write thousands and thousands commented, and every commentator
imagine that the poet wanted to say this, that, beyond it, and even things that the poor poet
was not occurred in life.

Comment about have already been made of Don Quixote. Why wonder FAUSTO be made of? And if Faust
is the blame for this in unintelligible, why Don Quixote is not set as default?

There is thus unintelligibility of a work in mysterious, esoteric or hidden that aspire to find
in it. Simply the exoteric, the direct sense, has a value and a meaning. And the second part
of Faust will have. Is it intelligible, it is dark, is dark the Song
of Songs?

To an outsider there is nothing any more intelligible. The Song Solomon is an idyll, an eclogue,
a love poem, where the beloved and the beloved compliments as nice, they say a thousand tenderness,
become a thousand kindnesses, are praised and described minutely and morose delectation body the
workmanship and thanks him and her, and painted the pleasures to be achieved or already achieved
both, kissing, hugging and loving each other a lot. But if this is so clear, well understood, mystical
search made sense given the Song of Songs exegetes and theologians, and the Song of Songs will need
to comment, and even with the comment we will stay dark, and will hardly understand a word.
Why not state the same for the second part of Faust, if we may equate into something sacred
and the profane?

It is not difficult to assume either that the intelligence FAUSTO scholarship depends upon that
to understand is required.

Sufficient, in our view, a culture medium. The comment scholar is useless. All are characterized
mythical characters so well that the ignorant may gain something, Allegan a wealth of scholarship,
whether on to read Faust, acquires and browse a manual dictionary of the fable, but what you learn
in the dictionary added little understanding of the poem.

The same is true of the doctrines cosmological, geological, philosophical etc., that the referred
FAUSTO. What Goethe means what he says in full and no is necessary to turn to other books to
explain, unless you want to know who the took or why he said. In this case it is possible that
the same scholar commented that the philosophical namely, that the comment be as much as the
Faust in Don Quixote. Also in Don Quixote there are those who investigate whether this passage
was taken from the Orlando or Amadis, if such a story or sentence comes from Conon sophist or
Golden Legend.

Now, it is simply not what is supposed or discerned in Faust, but what is said and this figure
in short and brief, because we fear being labeled as neat. For more promptly and clearly,
we will mark each of the five acts in this second tragedy is divided.

ACT I. - The fate of Faust can not close in the Margarita. Fausto is still very long career.
It aims at all, and to fulfill their aspirations has many powers.

Mephistopheles has, that is, in the spirit of cunning and conduct for life, which and returned the
youth and may even give you wealth, power, fame and material pleasures. And it counts on the
summit of Mephistopheles, because the natural magic touch points higher than the magic black
or witchcraft, with science, which will reveal the secrets of the universe, and poetry and art,
which made him the ideal for beauty.

Fausto No sooner recovers from his violent emotions, thanks to a magic sleep, lulled by songs
of genius and nymphs, in a fertile and pleasant garden, the above
aspirations begin to take place on, as far as the finite nature of
Faust and the world consent.

Fausto shines in the court of the Emperor and finds that she can be whatever he pleases, through
its own merit and the devil.

This, however, not satisfied.

The ladies there is not one that will make printing and falls in love with Elena, a personification
of the perfect body beauty.

The devil has no power to give Helen. Full of trepidation speaks of Mothers, or say to yourself
copies of the ideas of the pure forms before joining the raw material and produce various beings,
which mothers whose mysteries the devil you do not understand, live in a vacuum eternal, beyond
time and space, and only through very profound and lonely contemplation, concentrated in meditation,
and throwing in horrible depths, can them a daring mood.

The company is such that the devil himself would not dare to undertake
it.

Faust, however, the rush, and from the devil is in awe, and doubt again dark breast, infinitely
deeper than hell, where he has launched.

In this journey of Faust to see Mother is the key to the poem, the core of the second part. We believe
that the devil is right, and that Goethe does not. Fausto does not return reality. Vivo and human
Faust, Dr. melancholy, rejuvenated by the magic drink, the lover of nature, as are all the lovers
of natural, real and living Margarita, remains the Mothers out there, and only turns his shadow,
the pure idea, a symbol, as an allegory transparent and clear, that more can not be.

Hence, the entire second half is poetry, under the beautiful style of the poet, lyrical and gnomic
wealth that poured in a thousand beauties of all genres who knows Share in the details, but
on the whole, the second part, or is not poetry or poetry is the opposite.

No doubt the poet, back in ancient times, inspired unconscious, with estrus divine, agitated by a furor
that comes from heaven, create characters and actions involving and symbolize very great truths.
Later comes the critical, dialectical thinker, man cool and thoughtful, and stripping of the symbol
is in the hidden truths and reverses poetry and creates science.

This, in our opinion, is the natural process.

But Goethe comes the opposite way. In the second part of Faust is a poet in reverse shows practically
what at first we said that the epic momentous and comprehensive is impossible now: it is madness
to want to do it.

For these reasons, both the cruelty astounds us that many of unintelligible
censored The second part of Faust.

The defect seems to us that is the opposite: it is understood surplus, in which everything is
symbolic, as it is a long parable of thousands of verses that none of those interesting characters we
can and because they are such characters, but allegorical figures representing religious thoughts,
moral, philosophical, physical, chemical and geological author. And frankly, a parable, an allegory
as continuous would be unbearable if not for Goethe. Seems also a
vexed and tired childish. What do these images, such mysteries, this
figurative style, to expose doctrines? Although see clearly under
the transparent veil of allegory, even look better without the veil.

Poetry
is similar to that in religion. Imagine for a moment, and God will
forgive him, that of Christ is as Hegel explains. It will thus be
very philosophical, very deep, very interesting but as soon as they
accept the explanation of Hegel, a clever dialectic will work and
what is religion not have. Hegel, however, has the right (meaning
that we Supporters of the absolute freedom of thinking); Hegel can
rationally explain all dogmas, and reduce them to philosophy.

The
absurdity would be then undertaken the same walk in reverse, agarrásemos
the Idea, the Self, the Not-Self, the Self, the Not-Being, Get-to-Be,
the itching, Will, Life Death, the One and All, and turning them into
people, fraguásemos religion of the future and with the philosophies
of Hegel, and with those of Hartmann, and with those of any other.
Who 'd like to believe in religion? What apostles, which confessors,
what would martyrs? And this is not to deny that science, doctrine,
claim, stripped of the useless symbol, superimposed and anachronistic,
it can not have them.

We agree that in religion, for reasons long
to expose here, highlights the absurdity of most take the opposite
these ways, we agree that poetry fits into the allegorical, and be
imaginative, as clever game, and even as a graphic medium that make
the printing truths mood, and even as a mnemonic device to last more
persistently and distinction in memory