 What manner of speaking, God
mine! It seems that this is a tavern ... If you had to at least the Morros de mare! Descrísmese
you teaching these idiots. Gross! ...

And waving the cane began to distribute sound blows: the one by the nip and the other for "Impropriety
of language," as non-stop snorting Joaquin in their rum. So blindly were the blows that other
guys were tightened in banks, shrugged, hiding each head into the neighbor's shoulder, and
a little boy, the youngest son of Batiste, frightened by the sound
of the cane, it was the body.

This tamed the teacher and made him regain his lost glory, while the auditorium beaten covered
her face.

- Doña Pepa - said his wife -, take you to the Lord of Borrull, who is unwell, and clean behind
the school.

And the big woman, who had some affection to Batiste's three children because they paid all Saturday,
grabbed a hand to the "Lord of Borrull" which came out swinging school
on the tender little legs, still crying in fright and teaching more
than the skirt through the rear opening of the pants.

After these incidents over the lesson again sung, and the trees seemed
to shudder of annoyance to sift among its branches this monotonous
drone.

Some evenings are a melancholy could hear bells, and the whole school
was stirring with excitement.

Herd was approaching Tomba. Everyone knew that getting old with their livestock had a couple
of hours of rest.

If chatterbox was the pastor, not going on behind the teacher. Both undertook an endless conversation,
and the disciples left the banks to hear them up close or were going to play with ruminating sheep
grass near the slopes.

A Joaquin great sympathy he felt for the old.

He had run the world, had the courtesy always speak in Castilian, was understood in medicinal
herbs, not take away from that customers, in short, that was the only person in the garden can
"switch" with him.

The appearance was always the same. First came the sheep at the school door, stuck head, curious and sniffing
were retiring with some contempt, convinced that there there was more grass than the intellectual
and worth little. Then he had the guy walking Tomba safely through the land known, but with
the staff ahead of only aid their dying eyes.

He sat on the bench near the door bricks, and the teacher and the pastor spoke, quietly admired
by Dona Josefa and the older ones from school, which slowly they
approached to form a circle.

Tomba's uncle to the paths was always talking to his sheep, he spoke at the beginning slowly,
like a man afraid to reveal his absence, but the teacher talk was inflamed, and did not take
long to throw in the vast sea of ??endless stories. Lamented as badly that 'Spain will, "he repeated
the news of which came from the city, detested ill governments who are to blame for bad harvests,
and just say the usual.

- Those times, Don Juaquín, those were other times mine. You have not known; but also those of
you were better than them.

Let's getting worse ... What you see any the little people when they are men!

Already knew this was the prologue to his story.

- If you had seen us to the departure of the Flair! - Pastor monk could never say -. Those were
Spanish, but now there are only cute at home 'Cup I was eighteen years, a shako with a copper
eagle, he took from a dead man, and a rifle bigger than me. And flair! ... What a man! Now just
talk about which general. Lies, all lies! Where was the father Nevot there could be no other! Had
to see it rolled up the habit, on his horse, with curved saber and pistols. What we ran! Sometimes
here, sometimes in the Alicante province, then by near Albacete:
we always were on the heels; but we, we did French pillábamos dust.

I still think I see, "Musiú ... Pardon! "And I, bang, bang! bayonet clean.

The wrinkled old man stood, his eyes glowing like dying embers weak, moving the staff clicking as
if he were still the enemy. Then came the advice: behind the old kindly man rose up fierce, hard
bowels, formed in a merciless war. Visible Hacíanse his fierce instincts, rigid and unresponsive
in his youth to step time. Valencia spoke to the boys, giving them the fruit of their experience.
Should believe him, he had seen a lot. In life, patience to take revenge on the enemy; wait
for the ball, and when it comes right, play it hard. And to give these tips fierce twinkle in his
eyes, which at the bottom of the deep dying stars seemed close orbits to extinction. Betrayed
their malice senile old struggles in the garden, ambushes and tips, a complete disregard for
the lives of their peers.

The teacher, afraid that it would break the morale of its people, changed the course of conversation
talking about France, the great memories of old Tomba.

Was subject to many hours. He knew that country as if born there. By surrendering Valencia Marshal
Suchet, had been taken prisoner, with a few thousand more, to a large
city: Toulouse, France.

And mingled in the conversation, horribly disfigured, the words French
could still remember after all these years.

What a country!

There are men with about white hats and mats, color jackets with the collars up to the neck, boots
high as those of the cavalry, women with skirts and sleeves flute,
so narrow mark them all that remains inside.

And on and on talking about the costumes and customs the time of
the Empire, imagining everything and still existed today's France
was like to beginning of the century.

While detailing his memories, the teacher and his wife heard him attentively, and some boys,
abusing the unexpected holiday, away from the barracks were attracted
to the sheep, fleeing from them as the devil.

The pulling of the tail, cogíanlas legs, forcing them to walk with the front legs were rolled by the
wayside, or trying to ride them registering a jump on their dirty
wool.

And the poor animals in vain protesting with tender bleating, because he did not hear the pastor,
occupied in recounting with delight the agony of French finally killed him.

- And how many fell? - Ask the teacher at the end of the story.

- Question one hundred and twenty or one hundred thirty. Can not remember.

The marriage was smiling. Since the last conversation had increased twenty French. As the years
passed their exploits were getting larger and the number of victims.

The moans of the herd finally called the teacher's attention.

- Gentlemen - shouted to the brave disciples while cane required - all here. Can you imagine
that there is more to spend the day having fun? ... The center works.

And to prove it by example, moving the rod it was a pleasure introducing to blows the fold of
wisdom to all the flock of playful rascals.

- With your permission, Tomba: more than two hours we are talking about. I have to continue
the lesson.

And while the pastor, dismissed politely guided his sheep to the mill, to repeat there their stories,
started school again in the humming of the multiplication table,
it was for the disciples of Don Joaquin the great show of wisdom.

At sundown the boys let loose his last song, thanking the Lord "because
had assisted with their lights "and picked up the pouch each meal,
because as distances in the garden were not insignificant, the boys
went in the morning from their barracks with provisions for a day
at school.

This meant that some enemies of Don Joaquin teacher was fond of chastising his disciples diminished
rations for thus overcome the shortcomings of the kitchen of Dona
Pepa.

On Friday, after leaving school, they all invariably heard the same speech:

- Gentlemen, tomorrow is Saturday, you remember it to their wives
mothers and let them know that tomorrow will not bring the two rooms
will not enter the school.

To you I say especially 'Lord of ... such ', and to you,' Lord of ... which "- and thus let out a
dozen names -. Three weeks since he promised to bring you the stipend, and so the instruction
is not possible or science can procreate, nor fought with native barbarism relief from these
fields. I I put everything, my wisdom, my books - and watched the
three cards he was collecting his woman carefully to keep them in
the old comfortable - and you do not bring anything.

I said: that morning come with empty hands will not go in that door. Notice the ladies mothers.

Boys
were in pairs, holding hands - as in the schools of Valencia; What is believed some? - And left
the cabin, before kissing the right hand don squamous Joachim and repeating all of run to pass by
him:

- You have a good time! Until tomorrow, God willing!

Acompañábales the teacher to the square of the mill, which was a star
of roads and paths and there he undid the training in small groups,
moving away to different parts of the valley.

- Mind you, sirs, that
I will keep watch! - Joaquin shouted a last warning -.

Care to steal fruit, to skip stones or ditches. I have a bird that connects me everything; and if
I am wrong, cane walk off as a demon.

And standing in the square, was a long time to view the largest group,
which departed Alboraya way.

These disciples were the best paid. Iban including three children, Batiste, for which often turned
the road into a street of Bitterness.

Holding all three of the hand, tried to walk behind the other boys, who, being the barracks immediately
to his, felt the same hatred from their parents against Batiste and his family, and lost no opportunity
to disturb them.

The two older ones knew how to defend, and scratch more or less, to go out at certain times winners.
But the smallest, Pascualet, a chubby kid and potbellied, had only
five years, and whom I adored mother for her sweetness and gentleness,
promising to do chaplain cried just saw his brothers engaged in terrible
fights with fellow students.

Many times the two biggest came home sweaty and dusty, as if they
had rolled in the road, with ripped jeans and torn shirt.

Signals were battle, the boy I had all crying. And the mother had to cure some of the largest applying
a two-room piece tightly on the bump up from a stone traitor.

Teresa Alborotábase to learn of the attacks they were subjected to their children, and how tough
women and courageous born in the countryside, only reassured when he heard that his men had managed
to defend themselves leaving the enemy unfavorably.

For God, who cares for Pascualet first!

... And the older brother, angered by the stories small, promising to beat any enemy ticks when
found in paths.

Every evening, just out of sight Joaquin group, began hostilities.

The enemies, the sons or nephews of those who swore to destroy the
tavern Batiste, were shortened step, to lower the distance between
them and the three brothers.

Still rang in his ears the words of the master: the threat of bird
fucking everything and all I had seen.

Some laughed incredulously, but lip service. That "guy" knew so much! ...

But as threats amortiguábanse moved away from the teacher.

They began by prance around three brothers, he pursued laughing - Malicious pretext inspired
by the instinctive hypocrisy of childhood - to push them to pass,
with holy desire to throw in the ditch that bordered the road.

Later, when she was exhausted without success this maneuver, began
the slaps and Repelon to full speed.

- Lladres!

Lladres!

And throwing the insult, I pulled the ear and trotted away, to go
back a little further and repeat the same words.

       

This calumny invented by the enemies of his father, was what infuriated the boys. The two largest,
leaving Pascualet, who took refuge behind a tree whimpering, entablábase
grabbed stones and a battle in the middle of the road.

Pebbles whistled
through the branches, bringing down a rain of leaves and bouncing
off trunks and slopes, dogs barking out fierce barraqueros, attracted
by the noise of the fight, and women at the doors of their homes,
raised their arms to heaven, crying indignant:

- Condenats! Dimonis!
...

These scandals indignant Don Joaquin and made him move his inexorable
cane next day. What about your school, temple of good breeding! ...

The
fight did not end until a road went flying the whip, or left some
old barracks, club in hand. The assailants fled, was disbanded, and
repentant of his achievement at being alone, felt terrified, with
the easy exchange of views of children, in that bird who knew everything
and what kept them for et Joaquin next day.

Meanwhile, the three
brothers continued their journey descalabraduras scratching their
struggle.

One afternoon the poor woman screams Batiste appealed to
God and to the saints see the progress as they reached their young.

That
day the battle had been hard. Ah, the bandits! The two seniors were
bruised; was always the same: there was no need to ignore. But the
little one, the Bishop, as we affectionately his mother called him,
was wet from head to foot, and cried, trembling with fear and cold.

The
fierce vagabonds had thrown in a ditch of stagnant water, and then
gouged covered with silt siblings nauseating.

Teresa laid him in
his bed when he saw the poor fellow was trembling in his arms, holding
his neck and murmuring voice like a bleat:

- Mare! Mare! ...

The
mother resumed her lamentations.

"Lord! Give us patience! "All that
mob, young and old, had proposed ending with the family.

* * * *
*

VII

Sad and frowning, as if to a funeral, Batiste began the road
to Valencia on a Thursday morning