 Finally, none should be having earned the Ghost, did
not receive the effect of his request "(p. 31).

The Holy Child of Cebu, an image that left in that city co-Magallanes, resorted the Cebuanos, before
converting to Catholicism, to ask for rain, "leading him in procession to the beach and by putting
in the water, so getting the rain that had need "(Ninth the Most Holy Name of Jesus, Malabon,
1895, pg. 11). However, the immersion in water the sea, was a resource that could be called
extreme cases, it reads a line from this novena:

"If anything failed
to water because you prayed, the sea, O Child, you bore, and the waters
I got: and water and asked, gave your love.

                "(p. 29.)
                
                The best known miracles made by
                the Santo Niño took place
                from 1618 to 1675, from then
                it is logged in the Ninth none memorable.

However, the Ninth affirms that miracles the "continuously make Santo Niño" (p. 15) and "turn
it all the Visayas Bohol, Cebu, Leyte, Samar, Mindanao and many Tagalog to kiss his sacred feet, and
venerate and entrust their needs and misfortunes requesting relief in sickness, help in navigation
and protection in all the events of life "(pp. 15-16).

Safety in the ninth desired effect is complete in regard to San Roque
"The exercise of this Novena, says (p. 3, Ninth, Manila, 1910), gives
the average force to achieve this glorious saint of God that we ."--"

To get rid of fever * * * which has its origin in the corruption of the air * * * San Roque
to have to go with fervent prayers * * * "(p. 3). Next to the corpse of the Saint was found
a letter that it is written by God, saying: "Those who hurt fever, implore the favor of Roque
achieve health "(p. 5). The intervention of San Roque is only for Catholics; who makes his ninth
says the following: "I beseech you that by the merits of this glorious Holy libréis us, to all
who attended this cult and to all Catholics in your Kingdom of Spain and the Islands, all pestilent
disease that can take our lives " (P. 13). As there are here including the U.S. Catholic, the Bureau
of Health must remember that such citizens with non-Catholics who live the Philippines do not
enjoy antipestífera protection of San Roque.

Superstition and crime

In his remarkable study of criminal anthropology in the Philippines,
says Dr. Sixto de Los Angeles (p. 119): "The easy credulity fostered
by the overcultivation of religious fanaticism, has constituted from
the beginning until the present one of the flaws, unfortunately quite
still widespread among the natives of the country * * *.

Lover of their traditions and habits inherited and lack of sufficient
opportunities to acquire knowledge, the Filipino populace must hold,
as is logical and natural, their beliefs, which, not requiring any
effort for comprehension, are worsening and are rooted in a spontaneous
way in his mind.

As evidenced by our judicial annals, superstition holds a significant category between the
factors of crime in the country. "Superstitions referred to by Dr. LA not just those of the old paganism
of Filipino missionaries after more than three centuries, have failed to completely destroy. Superstitions
referred in this conference are those brought by those missionaries who have been easily to intrude
on the Philippines, naturally willing credulity, by effective propaganda and generously spread
on the ninth and other booklets called of devotion.

As to the arrival of American education in the Philippines was always and exclusively religious,
and directed by Roman priests, the persistence of ancient superstitions are a demonstration of the
failure of religious education. Missionaries would have an excuse blame the rude filipino invincible,
we could admit courtesy and to avoid discussions. But the trouble is not that they could not remove
some of the supposed hard head Indian, but the tremendous wealth of superstitions that for
more than three centuries, these missionaries have the same penetrating head injury so severe
in their minds and morals.