 

  1836.

  

  
  JOURNAL OF SPEECH PRE P. Henis.
  
  The combined efforts of two great European powers did not sufficient
  to comply with the treaty of 1750, which was to demarcate
  their vast estates in America.

  A representation respectful of the PP. of the Society
  of Jesus, who had to wrong assignment of Eastern missions, followed
  the riots, which soon ended in a general insurrection.
  
  The preliminaries of the treaty had been adjusted secretly with King
  John V against the vote of his ministers, they had much more
  important for the conservation of Colonia del Sacramento, the projected
  acquisition in Uruguay margins. But Joseph I, who adhered to the
  view of his father and predecessor, authorized to Gomez Freyre
  de Andrade, Governor and Captain General of Rio de Janeiro, for the
delivery of the Colony, while the Marques de Valdelirios filled the
commitments made by his Catholic Majesty, seconded by P. Altamirano,
who also came in kind of commissioner.

  
  
  Then which is reflected in the terms of this Còrdoba treaty,
  P. Barreda, provincial then met a query to expose the Viceroy
  and the audience of the damages that Inferi to the rights
  of the Crown, of the Company, and peoples. Fr Lozano, who was
  tasked with writing office, failed to produce anything convincing,
  and P. Quiroga, who enjoyed great cosmographer concept formed a
  map, which (as mentioned) distorts the field, to make most compelling
arguments for the consultants.

  
  
  These maneuvers, and the power of the PP. Missionaries on their neophytes,
  and exposed to the charge of having fostered, or favored
  the insurrection of the Indians. Attended to prove this kind
  of events to and from the Mara, where a Commissioner of the
  King of Portugal, in identical circumstances, is the same obstacles
  in the north, and Valdelirios Freyre in the south. There was
  no bear arms, because people had to give, no territory to
  evacuate, but denied aid, was locked operations, leaving Parages
wasteland where the debian move the markers.

  
  
  Funes, who recorded the files in the viceroyalty, recounts that
  the interview was the captain with the chief Sepé Zavala Tyaragú
  in the town of San Miguel, said this "circulating in those people
  a letter from the Governor of Buenos Aires, addressed to
  the Superior of the Missions, ordered the Indians to the use
  of force in defense of its territory and not allow entry to any Portuguese:
enfin, than those were the instructions they had of their parish priests.

  "[1]
  
  This statement is confirmed in several places Henis diary, they discover
  the error in which they lived the PP., "The Indians would do a
  great service to the King, if defended, opposed and resisted with
all his might, while waiting for Providence Europe than expected.

  "[2]
  
  Along the same lines expressing the P. Ravage, confessor imbecil
  Fernando VI, ensuring Superior of Missions, which King,
  a victim of the intrigues of his counselor Carvajal, author the treaty
was not until then had opposed cowardice and ignorance.

  
  
  Meanwhile the insurrection, which spread in the villages Missions,
leaving no more arbitrary than the power to suffocate