 It is a beast, but I understand.

- Why Diana kill myself ...!

Kill her ....

- My God, you're wild ...!

- No, sir. O Nah, you require or demand a woman, and if gets out, stick. O Nah, you paste, or
it sticks. Nah, you remember what the poor Bellarmine.

- What do I say?

But is that the poor Xuantipa Bellarmine was unfaithful? I ignored.

- You win, you may not lacking.

What I am saying is that, as Bellarmine could not cure his wife,
when held, with syrup ash, there is no better melecina pa the big
women, then, fixed, that his wife had always atosigao him and cure
pa therefore Nah, you know, I gave poultice on the backs each stake
....

- Yeah, I know.

The poor man, my dear friend .... I miss it less, since which is
enshrined there in the asylum who you say maletería; name truly comical.

-
Not maletería; is malatería.

- Is not it the same thing?

- No, sir.

-
So what do you mean malatería?

- Curse if I know.

- That does nothing.

But the beloved Revenga Bellarmine. I can not do without it.

I I come to visit every week or fortnight for ten years, in spite
of this costs abominable that I must climb to get.

He never spoke, he never speaks. Is sweetest of souls, and I argue that a great intelligence.

-
A wimp, stupid, like the other, Apolonio ....

- Shut up, Nolo. You do not understand. Bellarmine is a great man.

And Apollonius, it is also another great man.

I want to show how much they love and admire them. That is why they I have these thick Easter
cakes and thick custard sources, and many dozens thick cakes, like other years, so many of them,
on this day.

- That will eat greedy nuns and other inmates, like other years, this same day.

- Ah, of course! But the cakes are in Belarmino and Apolonio, and they enjoy invite more than
being invited. They've always given everything and have not wanted anything for them. I was
not trying to Apollonius once, only after being in the asylum. Very interesting, very interesting.
It is a curious thing, Apollonius would not treat me Bellarmine. He hates, that is, he thinks
hates him. Very funny. But Bellarmine does care if I try to Apollonius. He disdains, that is,
he believes that he disdains. Spicy situation. I have a need for great tact. But it all is so
extraordinary, so extraordinary .... Belarmino I love most, this is not to say, he is an old friend. But I
love you too Apollonius. Here we are now in the asylum. Remember, the employer can not know that
habemos brought this gift. She would make a great scandal.

Mysterious gravitation Colignon going to Bellarmine.

Is vulgar error to suppose that the force of gravity brings down the bodies. This fall involves the
notion of up and down, and in infinite space there is no up or down, the bodies and souls
sometimes rise and others fall down upwards. The latter is what Epicurean Colignon happening to
that, between gasps and hot flashes, going back regularly costs asylum,
attracted by the ascetic Bellarmine ie falling, no will, going up
to him.

Colignon rather old-looking and, penetrates, with his party at the hall of asylum, an elongated
piece of bare walls, with four helpless straw saddles. Front in front of the door, there is
a bracket on the wall of pine, over it, a statuette, unhappy, San Jose, cardboard, at the foot of
the saint, half a dozen beans, chickpeas and half a dozen a bottle with an olive, dense liquid,
and a label says: Azeite. These holy gifts in kind to indicate that what appears to spare,
is precisely what is lacking in the asylum, so that they know that charitable souls there seldom
fall to meet in a work of mercy, and that their gifts are the most
have been necessary in the poor house.

Tinkling, farther and farther away, a bell, voice cracked and old. Through a door, painted black,
comes an old nun, warning that is skeletal, despite Haldudo faldamento,
mummified the face.

His eyes, bulky and tired, they revive a point to see Mr. Collignon,
running to meet him with outstretched hands.

- Ah!

Felicita Felicita nice.

- Sister of Dolores, Mr. Colignon - corrects the nun.

- True, true. But I can not forget.

- We must forget, and if we can not forget, we seem like we've forgotten - says sister, nun
anointing and emphasis of nostalgia, as implying that, despite everything, has not forgotten.
What had to forget the sad Felicita! Above all, the cooling Colignon memory and disturbs the
chest of the sister of Dolores. These effects occur without French intention or guilt, just because of
their obesity. As viejucos asylees, and Beaton also all who go there to visit are, without exception,
lean people, each Once the sister of Dolores sees a fat man, imagine
having before it the love and Novillo spoiled, and feel again the
old Felicita.

Is now with his eyes obstinately humiliated, not to get in them the image of the abdomen, round and
damn evocative Mr. Collignon.

- But, my God - the newcomer exclaims laughing - which already Nah, you will be very difficult
to forget and hide .... This is a branch of the Rua Ruera other times.

Bellarmine is here, Apolonio is here, the usurer is here, you 're here. I'm only missing, and
I'm here now.

All others who are not coming to the rendez-vous is because they are dead and the eternity of nothingness.

-
Oh! - Sighs sister, without raising his eyes, against all rules of good sigh -. The people here are
also dead and watched the world from the perspective of eternity.

- What an idea! But still eat cakes. Meanwhile we can eat cake, God be blessed .-- Y Colignon laughs
as always with trepidation Glog turkey and stomach. I continued .-- I needed here as beans and peas
and oil.

All the better to eat cakes.

- God will reward you, sir Colignon.

Leave before the sun came out today that you appear Easter with entertainment. The old man,
for eight days, smacking taste in advance, and do not talk about anything but the rich Mr. Colignon
jams. How little is needed to make the happiness of others!

- Well not much, three kilos of flour, three kilos of sugar, three dozen eggs, three two sticks of
cinnamon and vanilla.

But it appears that those who invite the poor little I'm not old, but it is their peers Belarmino
and Apolonio.

- How little is needed for happiness, and how he almost never comes to that little ...!-- says yes
the sister of Dolores, without referring, of course, to the flour, sugar and eggs, since there
was no standing attention in the reply from the French, but was absorbed in their thoughts.
Leaving him, adds: - to leave here these baskets. And will pick them up. Go, Mr. Colignon, to
see their friends, until the time of the refectory. You know the road. Are in the garden, for
sure, waiting with impatience.

Colignon runs hallways, where smells of trash, and leaves the so-called garden a garden without
flowers that some daffodils. It is an expanse of prairie, the prairie, cut by sandy tracks, on
sidewalks, wooden benches, canopy banks, the tops of the acacias.

There are a breath of damp earth. Shines a dim and yellow sun melts forms and turns into a hint
huidera and intangible, it is unknown if dawn or dusk, and noon, a golden vapor blurring the
boundaries and melts things flowing and unit undecided, we do not know if it's memory or hope. Elysian
light.

Each time Mr. Collignon, so carnal and concrete, overlooks the garden, stepping on the edge
is given first the Champs Elysees, inhabited by disembodied images of those who were and are
no longer, of those who left in the solid earth, home of the gentle pleasures, and do not retain
but the appearance of life, and with it the age-old passions, because passions are the soul and
the soul is indestructible. The moist breath of the earth it gets up to Colignon bones, and
experience a deep chill.

But this is just what you like, enter for a few moments in a kind of beyond or world of illusion
and memory, to bask in their curious villagers and certainty that there are also eaten cakes,
and that he, although within that mock the grave, can go as he pleases and return to the delights
of physiological and eventful life.

So Colignon looming in the garden, the old, scattered on either side, come to him, with faltering
steps and labored, as in dreams, when movements are hindrance impeded by heavy and invisible.
One, especially, lingers. Comes with step majestic and indifferent mood, determined to show
no vulgar haste: it is Apollonius. Just another remains in place, far away, sitting on a bench,
having greeted the Colignon with a slight gesture of the hand is Bellarmine. Belarmino and Apolonio
are substantially younger than the rest of the inmates.

A nun, keeper of that herd of decrepit men, walking down one of the paths transverse, and manages
to cross the Apollonius Roncero.

The nun is Sister Lucidia. Nothing old, nor any younger .... On the right side of the face,
taking him from temple to the corner of the lips, and all through the cheek, has - since he was born
- a crimson stain, tentacular profile as a brand new track slap, a blow that, before out to life,
gave him the destination. Lucidia sister always has her head bowed on the right side, as if
he would not like that shame, as if trying to hide or if the other cheek, pale and intact, with
the adversity of the aggressive providence.

That spot, which seems smeared with red grape skins for a lewd hand satyr in delirium bucolic
vintage suggests a tragic love story, intimate and sealed.

The nun must have been pretty, despite the embarrassing spot, and even more so cute, because
of the stain to a passionate spirit and prone to dramatic emotions, such as is that of Apollonius.
Apollonius about the nun, and content with fire, because if any spy not notice, he whispers:

-
Angel Comforter of my soul! I adore you, I love you night and day. Are the pair comfort and sorrow,
brilliance and pale, like the sky. Day and night, oddly, are represented in your beautiful
face. On this side is calm and without reproach, deathly pale, Diana, the night. On the other
side is red and on, like Apollo, fiery life father. Oh terrible fight!

Penile joy or, as I look at the fiery side, and the watchman, and looking at your face, night
and day pass the hours of my life.

- Mr Apolonio, let's couplets. When I talk like he wants to ask me
something, I know experience.

Tell me what happens as God intended.

- Ask something, yes, as always, that we escaped together. Our ages are not, although looks,
disproportionate. Step-sixties, so what?, I'm agile and fiery as a recental. As a living, I'm
already nearing completion of a drama that will make us millionaires as it sounds. We will live in
Madrid, will throw coach. What hair horse likes you more? To me the sorrel flower or rosemary.
Make up your mind, be happy.

One day, when we trust me you will have your drama, terrible tragedy
that I guess, but do not ask yet know, not to violate their conscience
prohibited.

Decide, beautiful Lucidia.

- I think, Mr. Apolonio. But apart from the loophole, which goes for long, you have to ask me
something more immediate. Talk without objection.

- You, divine creature, the soul clairvoyant, soul of Sibyl. You read in my chest. What need do
I have to speak? Spare me the wrong time to have to tell me.

- Or talk you, Mr. Apolonio, or stay with God, I'm not friends with riddles.

- Sea. His desires for me are imperial ukase .-- Apollonius continues talking, self-conscious
and .-- tripping is not vanity, pride is not satanic, it is the truth. What can I do? I am a man
infinitely superior to all charitable living in this holy house to all, do not leave out anyone.
Superior by the family, higher economic status, higher intelligence.

I have received a formal education.

I use goat skin shoes; them to shore. I put on a drama with untold success. I have a weak stomach.

-
The latter superiority is all recognize him.

- A so I'm going. I need to drink sparkling water with meals.

I understand that when we in line at the refectory, I the only one with my bottle of Vichy water
on the arms, all others envy me, and tell you more, I even hate. How would they give for being
sick stomach and Canon have a child to send them money to buy water and other Vichy luxuries and
whims .... I could live with my son, if I wanted. But my son prefers I'm here, taking care of lovely
virgins, as a distinguished guest, but I miss nothing. Well now I'm missing something. The last bottle
of Vichy water has finished me yesterday. The Mother Superior tells me you have not received
my son's money to buy more bottles. I mean forgetting, because my son told me one of his last
letters was to Madrid, to preach in the Royal Chapel, look you right in the Royal Chapel, nothing less.
It would head to think of anything else, is explicable. But how do I go now, today, precisely
Easter Day, the dining hall without my bottle of Vichy water? What others say no, on every one that,
for contempt, not name? What would be the humiliation, mockery, derision? No, no and no, before
death.

- And what I can do, Mr. Apolonio?

- A "going, celestial Lucidia sister .-- Apollonius's voice trembles .-- I wanted to ask permission
I consent to take an empty bottle of Vichy water, and go to fill it with tap water laurels.
Nobody will notice anything or anyone.

- Why not? He agree - the sister responds, smiling placidly.

Sepáranse. Apolonio feels great relief, is a great sorrow has evaporated
off heart. The bottle of mineral water for him - since he assumed
that it is for others - a hierarchical logo, a symbol of superiority.
A sign, perhaps, superiority economic? Of course, but this, to Apollonius,
is secondary. It is essential that the bottle with hydraulic and therapeutic
content, manifests itself in the eyes of all as a sensitive test of
the intrinsic superiority and body of Apollonius. This order of superiority
irrefragable is - he just said boasting - to suffer from a stomach
ailment; although it is certain that enjoys a mouthful of ostrich
and digest volcanic rocks. Apolonio - by something is a playwright
Nativity - assumes that the dilection or preference of the gods some
deadly creatures is evidenced by a stigma or original tare, and that
the real heroes in the tragedy of human life experience and hold when
a, when another disease meat or adolescence, as a mark that distinguishes
the sacred character between plebeyez the choir. Apollonius had chosen
for himself dyspepsia. Would have preferred a bloody stain in the
face, as the sister Lucidia, which is why love and reverence for the
nun. But dyspepsia it is sufficient for their intentions, which are
palpable offer contrast and comparison with Bellarmine. You can now
shut in silence sealed Belarmino and philosophical, suggesting, with
smile on his lips thin and colorless, which is, after all, up and
away all things. Who will believe? Bellarmine digested well. How much
support he has worked head, he who has not been sick to your stomach?

And
Apollonius, with tragic and miserable mood, like a man beloved of
the gods dire is directed toward the group that make up the old Colignon
almost disembodied in around