 Is that the nature
there is no center of gravity with all the accuracy that science is? not; center exists, it
is not he missing, but the means to find him. Nature is so there like science, neither left behind:
what can not follow them are our media experience.

The mechanic determined that indivisible point is the center of gravity, assuming surface without
thickness, lines without breadth, and length divided into a designated point in space, but without
any extension. A satisfies these conditions dutifully nature: point exists, and not really to blame for
the limitation of our experience. The admitting there is any point of the two views above. Sticking
to which is in favor of unextended points, it is without any difficulty of the center of gravity,
in pure science. The other dares not much, but comes to say: "You see that molecule, that
little balloon infinitesimal diameter, whose smallness not enough to represent the imagination?
Make him smaller splitting for all eternity in decreasing geometric progression, in the ratio
greater than podais conceive, and go closer always at the center of gravity without ever reaching
it, the nature you do not miss ever: the limit before you retire, but will know for certain that
you approach him. Further into this molecule is what you seek, continuing to advance inside: do
not find; but there it is. "I do not think that the reality in this case detracts from the scientific
accuracy: mechanical theory or imagined or conceived, not going beyond.

[35.] These considerations leave beyond doubt that the geometry in
all its accuracy, theories in all its rigor, exist in nature.

If we were able to follow In our experience, we would find as the real with the ideal order,
and discover when the experience is against the theory, provided that this is not wrong, it
is because the limitation of our media makes us ignore the conditions imposed by the same theory.
The engineer who builds a system of gears is forced to correct their theoretical rules due
to friction and other circumstances from the area in which constructs: if he could see a coup
within nature discovered in the friction for example, a new gear system infinitesimal, confirming
with admirable accuracy the same rules, that experience made him believe grossly belied by reality.

[36.]
If the universe is wonderful in his moles of immense grandeur, no less so in parts of infinite
smallness, we are between two infinite, and the weak man who is nowhere to a or the other, must be
content to feel them, hoping that a new existence will clarify the
arcane currency that now not only profound darkness.

CHAPTER VI.

CLARIFICATIONS ON THE EXTENSION.

[37.] If the extension is something, as we have already demonstrated, what is?

In the body we find the extension, in space also find the extension:
since in both find what is essentially: the dimensions.

Does the extension of bodies is the same as the space?

I have to my eye and hand me the pen, which is certainly no extension. She moves, and it also moves
its extension. His movement is executed in the space remains still. At time A, the extension of the
boom have been occupying the A 'of space; when B, the same extension of the pen is actually occupying
the B 'distinct space Part A ', then neither the A' of space, and
the part B ', are identified with the extension the body.

This seems to have the full force of a demonstration, that for clarity and generality reduced
to a syllogism. The things that separate or be separated, are different, so the extension of bodies
can be removed and separated from any part of space, then the extension of bodies and space are
different things. I said that this reasoning seems to have all the force of a demonstration,
but no longer subject to serious difficulties, but how are you can not be understood without
having considered the idea deeply space, I reserve to express my
opinion, for if you try this in the chapters following.

[38.] The extension of a body is the same body? I can not imagine the body without extension, but does
not prove that the extension is the same body.

My spirit has gained the knowledge bodies through the senses: they have given me or disperta,
the idea of ??extension, but nothing I have said about the intimate nature of the body felt.

In these things we call bodies, found in our power to produce prints
very different from that of extension.

Extension of things as we get very different impressions: There is therefore the same thing
more than the extension. If there were more than this, where she would equal, would have the
same effect: experience shows otherwise.

In addition, we conceive extension in pure space, and yet we do not see the body. This when there
is no mobility, and space is stationary.

Does not exist when there is no capacity to produce prints, and the mere extension of space
does not have this capability.

Then the simple idea of ??the extension does not contain, even in the state of our knowledge,
the whole idea of ??the body. Ignore what the essence of this: but we know who enters on the
idea that it have, something more than extension.

[39.] When it is said that the body is inconceivable without extension, not to say that the extension
is the concept that constitutes the essence of the body.

This essence is unknown to us, and therefore we can not know what goes on it or not. Behold this
fair sense inseparability of the two ideas, extension and body. As we have no knowledge à
priori bodies, and how much they know, even their existence, received from sense, everything
we think or imagine about the bodies, must involve the serving as the basis of our feelings. This
basis as we have seen above, is the extension: no she does not feel, and without therefore,
the body ceases to exist for us, or reduced to a being that does not stand out from others.

Will
clarify these ideas. If stripping the bodies of the extension, and leave you only the nature
of a being, because of the impressions I get, then this is no different for me a spirit that
I produjese the same effects. I see the paper, and gives me the impression a white surface. No doubt
God could produce in my mind the same sensation, without there being
any body.

So assuming that I knew to my feeling not carries a large foreign object, and that alone is
caused by something that works on me it is clear that in my mind would be two things: 1. ª The
phenomenon of sensation, which in every case would be the same.

2. ª The idea of ??being that occurs to me, and this idea would have more than a being different
from me, that works on me: it would have in relation to external two ideas, distinction and
causality.

Now, to this role dispossession of the extension, what's left? Same as above. 1. º A internal phenomenon
witnessed by my conscience. 2. º The idea of ??a cause of this phenomenon. Nothing more.

I do not know if this is still a body, but I know that the idea of
??the body such as I am, I get something else: I know this for me,
no different from other beings, and that if his innermost nature is
something that distinguishes them, this something is unknown to me
(V. cap.

1).

[40.] Here as in what direction I say the idea is for us inseparable extension of the body. But
this does not follow that these things are identified, and to deepen matter, may be found to
exist away from this identity, and body extension are two entirely different things. We have
seen that this was true by referring to the idea, which is an indication that the same happens
in reality.

[41.] Few have more clear ideas of extension geometrically considered, all attempt to explain
it is useless simply by intuition we know better than I could tell us volumes. This idea itself
is so bright that it is based on a body science, the most extensive and obvious that humanity
has: geometry. Then there are reasons to believe we know the true essence of extension, considered
in itself, because we know its necessary properties, and provided
evidence that it lies our more scientific edifice.

And yet this idea is not found, or impenetrability, nor any of the
properties of the body on the contrary, we see an indifferent capacity
for all of them.

Conceive so easily penetrable and impenetrable extension; empty as
full, white and green with properties to be in relationship with our
bodies as without them.

Extension conceive a disposition to affect body to another, as in the pure space: in the sun
that illuminates and warms the world, as in the vague dimensions of an entirely empty vastness.

CHAPTER
VII.

SPACE-NOTHING.

[42.] As explained in previous chapters may have noticed, that's ideas
always mixed extension of space, and when you want to set the real
nature of that, we also offer questions about the nature of this.

It is not possible explain any of those things, if left in the dark some of them, for the same
I shall deal at length on issues of space, so under ideal appearance as real, because only
this way we can proceed with some clarity in determining the nature of the extension.

[43.] Space: This is one of the deepest mysteries in the natural order offered the skinny man's
understanding. The more you delve into it, but it is dark: the spirit is as immersed in that
darkness that we figured out there in the vast depths of imaginary spaces. Know whether what you
experience are illusions or realities. For a moment he seems to have reached the truth, and
then discovers that it has narrowed its arms a vain shadow. Form speeches that other matters
would have to inconclusive and that are not in this, because they
are in opposition to others who also seem conclusive.

It would seem that it meets the limit to its research, has put the Creator: and that the endeavor
to pierce, fades, feels his flagging energy, your life extinguished, like all living on leaving
the element of its own.

When some philosophers are going slightly on space issues, and flattering to explain in two words,
it can be assured that either have not thought much about the difficulty that they hold, or to
meditate, they have not understood. Not proceed so, Descartes, Malebranche, Newton, and Leibniz.

Deepening
the bottomless pit is not wasting time in useless discussion, even if not be reached to find what
you are looking for, you get a very good result because touch the limits set to our spirit. It
is appropriate that we know what we can know and what is not, of this knowledge takes the philosophy
considered very high and profitable. Moreover, even with little hope of good result, it is
not possible to leave without test an idea it touches so close to the base of all our knowledge
concerning corporeal objects: the extension.

There is some reason to investigate where all philosophers have been investigated: What do
we know if long centuries of efforts to them is reserved the light, as the reward of constancy?

[44.]
What then is the space?

Is it something in reality? Is it just an idea? If an idea "Corresponds to an object in the
external world? Is it a mere illusion? The word space, is empty of meaning?

If you do not know what is the space, let us at least the sense of
the word with this Somehow we will post also in the state of the art.

By space we mean the extension imagine that placed the bodies: the ability to contain, to which
we attach no no quality of them, except the extension itself.

Assuming an airtight vessel, whose inside is empty, reduced to nothing As it is contained, and without
in any way be introduced nothing new, this cavity that capacity is, and in our understanding,
can be filled with body, that is a part of space. Imagine the world as a huge vessel in which they
are contained all the bodies: vaciémosle suddenly behold a cavity
with equal space the universe.

Let us imagine that beyond the limits of the world, there is capacity for other bodies behold
endless space or imaginary.

The space is presented at first sight, but as infinite, at least as indefinite. Because at any point
where a body placed conceive, you can also conceive move, describing
all sorts of lines taking variety of directions, and away indefinitely
the place where he was.

Next to that ability, to those dimensions, not limit them to imagine
whatsoever.

Then the space is presented as indefinite.

[45.] Will be no pure space?

Settle some that space, irrespective of any surface of bodies, and considered as a simple interval,
is pure nothing, admitting that he alone, can be tested two bodies are really distant, and
also add that even if the whole universe reduced to nothing, except
a single body, this could vary from place to move.

I think opinion holds that the contradictions that are difficult to reconcile. Who says extension-all,
it contradicts the terms, and yet this is reduced to the view we're talking.

[46.] If a room is reduced to nothing all that it contains, it seems that the walls can not be
distant. The idea of ??distance, including a medium between objects: nothing can not be a means,
is nothing. If the delay is nothing, no distance, they will be empty
words.

To say that nothing can own property, to destroy all ideas, is to affirm the possibility of
being and not being at the same moment, and thus subvert the foundations of human knowledge.

[47.] To say that all content is annihilating negative space, is to play with words and leave
standing the same difficulty. This negative space is something or nothing, if anything, falls
are fighting opinion, if anything, the challenge remains the same.

[48.] If the answer is that in spite of not getting anything between
the surfaces, they nevertheless left with the ability to contain,
observe that this capability is not on the surfaces same, but the
distances between: otherwise arranged in any way the surfaces always
retain the same capacity, which is absurd.

We therefore advance a step: need to explain what that capacity, that distance, the question
is still intact.

[49.] Perhaps you could replicate that wiped contained within the
surfaces, not volume is destroyed that form, and the idea of ??this
volume enters the building.

But I reply that the idea of ??wrapping volume away, for if it does not exist, no volume, and there
is no such distance, if distance is a mere nothing.

[50.] Pondering to release these difficulties so hurry, think of a specific response at first
sight, but well considered, is as futile as the others. The distance, we say, is a sheer denial of
contact, the denial is pure nothing, then we have nothing with this what we want. I repeat that
this solution is as futile as the other: for if the distance is nothing but the denial of contact
distances no greater or less, all are equal; since in having denial
of contact, and be all you can be.

The same exists denial of contact between two surfaces that are far each one millionth of a line
like a million miles. This denial then, nothing explains the same problem continues to exist.

[51.]
Far from the idea of ??distance can be explained by the contact, as its opposite, On the contrary,
the contact can only be explained by the distance. If you ask what is the proximity of two surfaces,
as explained by the immediacy, we say that touch because there is nothing between the two, because
there is no distance. In the idea of ??contact the relative qualities do not come to the senses,
nor of the action that one contiguous bodies can exert over another, such as momentum or compression:
contiguity is a negative idea, purely geometrical: it contains nothing but denial away. Contiguity
has no more no less, for all that may be, it is enough that no distance is a real denial. Two things
can be more or less distant: but can not be played more or less, with respect to a same parties.
What can be is more contact points, but no further contact between
the same points.

[52.] Strive but the argument for the reality of space, on the assumption
that are attributed to capacity and distance.

Suppose an area of ??two feet in diameter, entirely empty. Within that space is not over: if space
is nothing, nothing left.

I ask now: in the interior of the hollow sphere is it possible the movement? It seems certain; there
is no reason, there is a movable body, there is a greater extent than the body, no distance
to go. In addition, if the movement is not possible, it would be impossible also that the area
is filled with any body, after being empty, and emptying into being full. Neither empty nor filled
can be no movement of bodies in the interior of the sphere, and this movement is not a body
within another body, but in space: 1. º For the bodies are impenetrable: 2. No. Because when
it fills the area after having been empty, the body can not find
another body goes, and whoever comes out when the field is empty,
it moves through space it leaves, in which nothing but himself, and
nothing remains in dating him.

After assuming a hollow sphere, within it there can be movement. Now, if the content space is a pure
nothing, the movement is also nothing, and therefore does not exist. The movement can not exist
nor be conceived, but walking distance; this is essence, if the distance is nothing, anything goes,
then no motion. What will it mean the body has traveled half the diameter, or one foot? If this
is nothing, no mean nothing.

I do not know what to respond to all these good reasons in that axiom: nothing has no property.

[53.] However great the difficulties are refusing to give the space a reality, I do not reach that can
be as serious as those which militate against anything, on the assumption one wishes to grant extension.
Those, as we shall see, lie rather in certain problems born out of our way of thinking, that
based on sound reasons; when we have just proposed are based on the ideas that underlie all
knowledge: in that most unquestionable proposition: nothing has no properties. If this proposition
is not admitted as incontrovertible axiom goes awry all human knowledge, including the principle
of contradiction: for obvious contradiction is that nothing has any property or parties, that
nothing can say anything, that nothing can move anything that the
idea of ??nothing can be founded a science as geometry, that refer
to nothing all calculations are made on the nature.

CHAPTER VIII.

OPINION Descartes and Leibniz, ON THE SPACE.

[54.] If space is something, what is?

Here is another very serious difficulty: to combat the opponents have been easy to hold the
position you choose, not be so.

Could it be said that space is nothing but the same extension of bodies, which conceived abstract,
which gives an idea of ??what we call pure space, and that the diversity of points and positions,
are but modifications of the extension?

As soon as you see that if the space is the same extension of bodies, where there will be no
blank body. Then a vacuum is impossible. This result is inevitable.

So two philosophers have thought so egregious as Descartes and Leibnitz, but do not know why
both wanted to point out to the universe an indefinite extension. It is true that this sort
eluded difficult to imagine the spaces beyond the limits of the universe, then that if the universe
is limited, there can be nothing out of bounds, and therefore everything We can imagine is
within the universe.

But this is not to circumvent the difficulties but releasing them, for a review to avoid a hard drive,
nothing is in favor of strength.

[55.] According to Descartes the essence of body consists in extension, and as in space extension
conceived out of necessity, it follows that body, extension and space, are three things essentially
identical. The vacuum as usually conceived, is an extension or space without a body, is something
contradictory as that body is to assume, therefore that extension means, and no body, therefore it
is supposed to removed.

Descartes simply accept the ultimate consequences of this doctrine. Thus, proposing the difficulty
Founded in which we imagine that God could remove all matter contained in a glass, staying
the same shape of the glass, answered firmly that this is impossible. "For we can, he says, correcting
an opinion so false, we see that there is no necessary link between the glass and body that you
full, but it is so absolutely necessary between concave glass figure, and the extension must
be included in this concavity, which there is more reluctance to
conceive a mountain without a valley, that such an extension without
the concavity it contains, and this extension without any extended
thing, because it's nothing, as has been observed many times, can
not have extension.

For which reason, if we are asked What would happen if God removed the whole body is in a glass, without
allowing enter another answer to the sides of this vessel would be found so close, that would play
immediately. For two bodies must touch when there is nothing between them, it would be contradiction
in these two bodies were apart, ie have distance from each other, and that this distance was not anything.
Distance is a extension property that can not exist without the extension "(Princ. of Filos. p. 2.
§ 18).

[56.] If cinemas Descartes argued that space, because it contains real distances can not be a
pure nothing, its reasoning would seem conclusive, but when he adds
that the space is the body, for the reason that space extension and
the extension is the essence the body, seat does not prove a thing.

They do not conceive or imagine body without extension, only follows
that the extension is a property of the body, without which we will
not conceive, but not that is its essence. To be sure of this, it
would be necessary as we have the idea of ??extension, the body we
had also to see if among them are identity. But the bodies we know
nothing but what we experienced through the senses, without being
there been given to penetrate the intimate nature.

Where does the
inseparability of the extension and body ideas