 Is performed so strange and violent landing: you look with indifference
the King's service, and the remaining state of those miserable, abusing the loyalty obedience
and courage with which despised death.

What else could make the Court, in an era when Spain was afflicted with the efforts that caused
the willful rebellion of the flamingos, which gears up as respectable navy, and later strengthened
with four galleons? If you have played Diego Rivera their orders with more foresight, with
another baby, or with more humanity, repeating aid with the vessels under his command, those
populations have been set, or at least would not have lost so loyal and unfortunate Spanish,
but their inconsistency, and no suffering to the work, made useless the efforts of King, and
sacrificed to these unhappy.

Although the experience of these events gave to the wise minister, who so glory of the nation
address the monarchy, the light and knowledge, so do not develop so unfortunate end establishments
latter Bottomless Bays and San Julian, no so have been able to free himself from the same contrasts
that finally brought down to a estenuado skeleton of the young population of the Black River.
With such a strong case (though never gave up the intent of these populations), they had indeed
found the King at any cost in both expressed bays. To this end appointed commissioners, and
ordered families from different provinces of Spain, with his real
will, who enlist the most honest, hardworking and better behavior.

Implemented this project with the first expedition that came out of Montevideo, commanding D. John
Stone, was discovered the port of San Jose, where he was made the first provisional establishment,
and the little water they carried vessels, lack of horses, oxen and mules to lead from sources
that were discovered, and poor quality of food supplies, sick people, and missed the record to wait
for relief from the Rio de la Plata or River Black, which was discovered a short time, forcing
the commander most violent terms D. Antonio de Viedma to withdraw
with almost all of the people, to the square of Montevideo, Santa
Teresa in the packet boat.

The opposite event that caused it was the arrival at Buenos Aires D. Basilio Villarino Black River,
where he delivered the Super-intendant D. Francisco de Viedma, to succor the port of San José,
with a lot of watery which led the brigantine Our Lady of Mount Caramel and Animas, and the loss
of the hooker, call the Visitation, which was to set sail in that bay to drive aid to the San José:
Well, having achieved any of these relief, has not been rooted with
scurvy killed 28 men had not forsaken that position, and caused the
loss of the effects and there were groceries