 "Tristezón and acobardao", as was another man. The cough choked night,
and spent in the air half of them. "Entrol malenconía" of the darkest, and if I came not to
go to his side, he is "like sighs." "This, and too" God knew how far the car would not mired
forever.

And the poor woman, her eyes misted over, was just a voice in his
throat to say this.

A good door had called me to be cured of sadness!

Aggravated they had taken from my room with the spread of the facia,
I withdrew from her comfort with two formulas, which for me would
have liked me, and went straight to the kitchen.

IV

My uncle was there, sitting on the bedside chair, and left in the bank that followed immediately,
a very big parish priest, with cassock of cloth, velvet cap worn, and hands a very severe
cachavona; border to two, with the fire between them, another character even bulkier than the
parish priest, head gray and fat, sallow face and eyes bulging at the same bank, but a respectful
distance from the subject, Chisco wiping the mud off their legs by the fire, and beside her,
and crouched on the floor without disturb anyone, with a wooden spoon
in the right hand and left handle a pan placed on the trivet, a young
man of blue eyes, beautiful and abundant hair blonde and body well
into meat.

When you get me in the kitchen, stopped the loud clamor of conversation
that I had committed similar dispute since the passage immediately,
and everyone in the group is faced with me suddenly.

Descubrimerlo me then and walked a few steps to the plateau of the stove.

- Hello, hello - my uncle said to me -. And come looking for the grace of God, eh? I happy, man,
I'm glad ... Let's see, take, take it ... Well you can not because you're busy ... You, Chisco,
take it the spotlight that comes in hand ... Go - she added, looking alternately the Priest and the
big man from another bank - here you have it already: this is my
nephew Marcellus, the son My late brother Juan Antonio.

Huh? What? What to ask in print or on clothing? ... See - told me - these gentlemen come to
visit ...

Then he straightened to the question, which seemed giants, particularly the layman, who got his head
to the shoulders within the chimney, but and the priest took off his cap, and the other the
chambergazo with that covered a fraction of the white mop that is overflowing around the perimeter
of the stubborn.

I was given two separate handshakes, that made me see stars, and they walked back to sit,
my prayers, and sat me also to my uncle's between him and the parish priest, he continued the first,
pointing to the second:

- Mr. Don Sabas Peñas, pastor of the town since he sang Mass ... Ago
and far! because I warn you not drop a quarter of the three drives
and a half ... They are counted along well ... Good friend, good adherence
to their duties, though, and very learned in Latin of all kinds ...
and put a bullet in the heart of a bear without a pulse shake him
... Not known other vice.

The Cure released here a laugh that echoed through the funnel of the
chimney, and even mumbled a breviary Latinos could not understand.

After my uncle said, referring to the front pew hombrazo:

- The Lord
... Men - said facing him suddenly with him - will you let me give
all your passport once, to finish first and understand each other
better?

You know that I have learned well in memory ...

The hombrazo bank shifted its growling a bit and finally said, his voice hollow and resonant:

- In the passport you call it kind of offends me, and always to be
affixed sunlight itself: well you know.

But watch out for the jingle! because there are mouths to the same
Creed of the Mass do not sound like it is ...

- This mouth is mine,
watch it!

- I say that there are those mouths, I say no more than
that - said the hombrazo.

- Santo and current, but I am coming to
wonder if going or not going to know my nephew, all your passport,
cuartajo!

- And I reply that it is honor for me, can not offend me.

Beyond that you see, and no more to say.

- Well, listen, Marcelillo, which goes beyond the document: Don Pedro Nolasco of Castañalera,
was mayor of the Royal Valley in 1832, alderman in 1800 thirty, deputy
mayor in 1827, trustee in 1825, former employee in the laundry room
of Messrs. Botifora Wool and Company, outside of the city of Valencia
... Command and control.

- You see? - Hombrazo jumped here, with
a booming voice that stunned.

Already sacastes leg! ... And the jicistes!

- What? - My uncle asked, feigning surprise, while Cure and launched bubbling laugh Latin and I do not
know what to think of everything ...

- Hey, you, young gentleman - he said to me then Don Pedro Nolasco, somewhat shaky voice -: is
the truth that I have been, and proud, all those things you've heard
... but against the "command and control" of the auction, protest
once, twice, and two million of them.

- It appears from the papers
- said my uncle with great fortitude.

- And much has - said Don Pedro
Nolasco - but with your account and reason in groups I published at
the time, when things were a firmer step now ... Yes, sir; there was
good and at the point, but it is not where you just put it with bad
intent Did you have always ...

- That is aggrieved! - Cried my uncle
smothered by coughing.

- Of that I'm missing you I'm complaining
for no reason yo!

- I have not missed!

- I sure did!

The thing about curling was really down this path, but with the intervention Cura and mine conjuróse
time the storm, which was not new in that kitchen between the same opponents, as I later learned,
because the two were sour-tempered, and Don Pedro Nolasco things
a continual temptation to the spirit of my uncle's cunning.

Posts in peace very soon, he continued:

- By the way, take me two years to date, although Deny drag, without
a hint of fear of God, and already has four consecutive hard right
weight.

Was always much wineskin, good appetite and better behavior.

So he has come so here, not a bad gripe.

Never addiction took him as the priest, to the big game ... in the
brambles, you understand, because the edge your home or fireside,
an ox is zampa two sittings, if he is offered.

For that and other things, well we call that we want, not that bad
I take no offense, "Marmitón."

- Celso! - Don Pedro Nolasco here
roared, kicking at the edge of the plateau in supporting feet, shod
in sneakers black belts, the same as the parish priest and my uncle.

And then I noticed that underneath I was wearing slippers alagartadas mean, green, large black
dots.

- That's all you ugly, except the face - my uncle said to him quietly -: the great ... In a
javelin that point you jealous, maybe a joke. We left a searing and and you want to get into
another ...

- Barájolas! - Don Pedro Nolasco said crossing himself -. Have you seen another like it? Swindling
of demons, "because I've got you and me so much, since over the other?

My uncle ignored him, and he asked me:

- Have you seen it right? Well, with these bristles and all, is the neighbor of the people noblón
the best friend of his friends, and it's grapes from our vine.

Take heart in hand and give the skin when there is no layer from the poor. I tell you, Marmitón
of demons, but hit me - he said turning to the giant -, I'm telling you, cuartajo!, I, I have
good evidence to be true: and I say to the soul and life.

If you want to believe me believe me, if not worse for you. Is not that right, Cura?

- Est Deus in nobis - he replied, shaking his head from side to side
as he says something good that is also undisputed -.

There is no getting around it, Deus in nobis est, semper et located. And if not, poor us each
bungling of that weapon Satan in the disputes of men.

- Well, well - my uncle said, turning to his friend who jokes or moved, with big eyes fixed
on the fire -. Now I want you to stay to dinner with us, not for me I do not deserve, but to honor
my nephew.

- A good time! - Murmured the giant stirring a little look into Don Celso and unloading much
the celajes of his face.

- Do you mean because you eaten yet? "- Replied my uncle.

- Naturally.

- Well, for that matter, because I assumed, you invited me.

In stomachs like yours, called prime prime ... And to encourage you
and make it more round and full tonight, I also invited you, Priest.

-
That's another thing - then Don Pedro Nolasco said, going straight
to the imagination -: if It is ...

We denied the Cure to it in all
earnest, but insistently my uncle and I commit myself also accepted
at the end.

- Have you heard, Tona?

... Well Bring the story to Facia to put two dishes on table, and
you add what is missing, if it is missing something in the kitchen.

Tona said that was left with what was leaning over the fire, where everyone ate "As God commanded,"
and my uncle, while the big man with hoarseness received the conditional
the servant had cast his eyes thither, gave the history and topped
ordered it was another fun.

Or both were not even for my taste, the few that surfaced later, as the blonde Bouncers and
Facia, the gray woman, who was in and out often, they gave the last
arrimados condumios touches on fire.

For my part, and 'to get by in the conversation » I had to provide, at the behest of the priest
and Don Pedro Nolasco, four vague on "These worlds of God, for which both had been shot in the
words of the same gentlemen, and less concerned and that at first as there was, and being able
to bring my attention to other terms of the box, I noticed, among
other things, that Chisco Tona and took no part in it than with the
eyes and the occasional laugh or cry, and that such a servant, for
her face and her figure, from head to toe, in short, was what was
called a good girl.

- You see - even told me my uncle - who here
does not hang out too bad, after the fact man these things so different
from "beyond."

And better yet passed, as you go see, for tonight does not rule: it is not that time today, they
do not press the cold and much of the corn without leaves, and we have leafless, because first
things first, but allow yourself to run day and the sky begins to turn brown and "Rebombo" the
Pozon Pena Sagra, piece of junk! people come and see this kitchen, until he night not fit in
these banks, each with its accoutrement and its theme ... montuna all people, for cash: jastialones
pure. We must arm ourselves sometimes much stamina, yes, because in a flock, Zanchetta! Not all
beasts are in the same condition, but the best times are the most, and as not ask camuesa chestnuts
... Come on, you have to entertain, if you accustom to it ... and God will do so.

- Well not to jacerlu! - Don Pedro Nolasco said, surprised that it was doubted he had the indubitable.

-
A morning usque ad noctem custody speret Israel in Domino - Don Sabas confirmed - without counting
with what I have said and I never tire of repeating: Deus in nobis est, and therefore should
not despair of anything that is honest, convenient and good man according to the holy law of
God.

When it came time to go to dinner, asked Don Pedro Nolasco very surprised:

- But how? ... Do not dine here?

- No sir! - Replied my uncle pushing toward the door.

- But why?
- Insisted that standing on the hearth.

- Curiosón of demons - returned
the other, turning to him from the middle of the kitchen -.

First, a given mud you should not put studs, and lastly, you have of knowing you, swallow-knockers
of jinojo that not all time are some, not all men are equal.

Do you understand me now?

This occurred in the instant Chisco, mandated by Tona, was approaching the wall I had been in
front, which was adapted a board, he loosened the Taravilla held
above, you spun on the axle was in the down side, and left him horizontal
position supported by a tentemozo.

Requesting information on the use of that unit, I found that the
table was 'lazy' to my uncle who had alluded in the dining room.

-
And why they put it now? - Ask.

- For dinner the servants as soon
as we get the hell out of here - he answered.

I liked the device, which was armed with a short distance from hearth
novelty tentóme that, certainly I think the good joined notorious
Don Pedro Nolasco.

- As for me - my uncle said with firm resolve
- to lift the cloth at the other table and tend to it.

For give you a taste, I sent to dine there: you know that mine is very different. Also, for what
I have for dinner ... So if you prefer this ...

Agreed, at my request, that for the night stay the way things were,
dining forth in the lazy and leaving the dining room table for lunch,
she stooped down its pedestal Don Pedro Nolasco, and left the kitchen,
the four people in swath, Tona following we lit the way with a candle
that had lowered the hood the fireplace.

And what happened while I was dreading doing, for what had been observed around the fire and
the chores of repolluda cook, that dinner was ready in my honor to serve as a temptation rather
than terror and solace to my diner swallows, made and tasty seasoned
to the kitchen parvidades mundane.

Start counting by covered and two silver spoons fashioned way, a
loaf of bread "home" eight glasses green glass bottle and a very black,
all he had and was appearing on the table was solid and big and rich
to the unbelievable.

First, a bucket of milk soup, then a very serious source of a turnip
soup salad, then an omelette of bacon, followed by a spicy offal,
and, finally, a huge apple compote, and much cheese from sheep.

The only thing in short supply there were light and heat because of the oil lamp wicks was almost
lost in black space before reaching the table, and chamuscón that
I had given me in the kitchen only served in the dining room to feel
doubly glacial temperature of that wilderness.

The Cure, contrary to what I expected from their size, ate nothing
but regularly, and was clean and rested in the eating.

My uncle tried everything not like anything, and I satisfy my need, more than appetite, twelve
hours, almost as much as the sight of abundant food, as the parvidades that they took ...
But Don Pedro Nolasco! ... I had no measure their calo stomach vulture devoured up to the eyes,
and much that does not fit in the mouth while worked his throat, Corriale in rivulets on the
outside to sink under the sobarba between leather jacket, or mixed
dropwise with the filth of the vest.
