 Repeated every year, and there was nobody among the guests who do not the
wait. But had to repeat the sacramental phrase, excuses for heading, and while all claimed that
they were thirsty and asked angrily to homeowners why bother, tongue, dry heat, seemed to stick
to the palate, and eyes were after the gold fillet cups containing the steaming chocolate,
wide glasses blue on which stood their twisted monteras sorbet red or yellow, and lacquer covered
trays of sweets. Had to resign and do a rebuff to the lords home. And a few minutes they were
friends around the table, covered with cloth biscuit crumbs, empty gourds chocolate wafers and
nailing in the bowels of sorbets.

Doña Manuela spoke with Mr. Cuadros, Teresa had placed beside her
husband, the hope of achieving their catechism.

This lady, who knew so much and so great experience had acquired in marital misery, their
only hope.

The widow spoke with his former clerk, smiling. How the man had changed! Doña Manuela, knowledgeable
expert, noted in him a certain audacity, as the boy who emancipated from maternal authority
and launch into life full of crazy.

The widow, always smiling, amazed at his words with double meanings, of roguish winks which accompanied
his words, and even seemed oh power of illusion! was in his person a strange perfume beginning to
fray the nerves of Dona Manuela, some of the environment of that bad skin of the street from
the Port, that the guard had no doubt brought to his home honest.

Meanwhile, Teresa, while addressing the guests and overwhelm them with gifts, not take his eyes
off her husband and caring friend. Doña Manuela felt a deep pity every time you noticed the
poor wife. Well her husband was trying to conversions! Mr. Cuadros was a man lost forever,
he had a hungry like the forbidden fruit, after years of obscure and laborious life, not knowing
what Young was working as a beast of burden. Prior to die than to be satisfied. Nothing could advance
his wife away from Clarita.

The skulls are terrible fifties for his candor, and although isolated, are capable of falling
in love with the maid of the house.

Doña Manuela We stated further in this to notice what was happening
around her.

Who was one foot under the table, stepped on yours? What was that knee so boldly stroking her
silk skirt? Mr. Cuadros, to this honest family man who answered his honeyed words and gestures
seemed to measure up and down with their eyes dazzled.

Poor Teresa! Perhaps he imagined that the words of Dona Manuela unmoved by wayward making it into
the path of repentance, not even remotely guessed that his husband, by a strange aberration, which
came through a lot of pride, began to excited about something fading beauty of the wife of his
former principal.

The widow he felt disturbed by such audacity; agitábase nervously
in his seat, but was silent and still smiling.

I thought that the situation imposed hiatus, and that the friendship of marriage Pictures it was
very necessary to save their lady troubles in decline, beset by debts.

In addition, the future of his daughter, his Amparito, was there,
and the widow throwing a look of maternal anxiety at the end of the
table, where the child was with Andresito getting cuddly kitten with
gestures of sweets and the words of her boyfriend.

After half an hour of desktops, the meeting broke up. The men went in search of their hats and ladies
besuqueábanse to leave, muttering all the same greeting:

- Until next year. May God preserve us all health, to see the procession.

Were

parading all families, and finally left alone the Pajares, waiting Juanito or Raphael to accompany
them home.

Mr. Cuadros was harassing Dona Manuela It was up, running away from the bold intimidated by
the table below, but followed her stockbroker to continue their conversation. Now the two were next
to Teresa, and the husband was allowed only pleasantries and memories
on the great friendship that had always united the two families.

-
The boys take to come - said Don Antonio -.

Rafael will be with his friends, and as Juanito, you attract mandatory obligations. I am told
that now has a girlfriend and is mad for her. Youth! Oh, what a great thing! I already know
that, right, Teresa?

And as if sensing what he thought his wife and wanted to appease in
advance, throwing a the obese lady a look of tenderness, as an honest
man and of moral probity remembering its quiet honeymoon.

Doña Manuela was amazed. Decidedly, this Clarita had changed the man. He was a rascal. And instead
of outraged by the cruelty with which he lied and tried to deceive his woman, the widow began
to find sympathetic, seeing it as a resurrection of second husband,
the doctor that the skull had so loved.

- If you want, and I will
accompany Andresito.

Doña Manuela, animated by an instinct bashful, tried to excuse.

- Yes, the accompanying Antonio - Teresa said quickly.

And the poor woman begging with her eyes to accept, as if for her hope her husband prolonged
conversation with the widow. Who knows what could I say Dona Manuela's husband cheating!

There was no way to apologize.

The left Pajares Andresito and accompanied by Don Antonio following them with his eyes anxiously
Teresa gullible. My God, to soften the hearts the man, lest the shocking martyr himself to the family
and friends!

Down in the closed shop, they found Don Eugenio, always with the beanie silk, sullenly which welcomed
his former clerk. The Bird and his two companions followed by a sidewalk market. Before the two
girls with Andresito, Concha moody and scowling all day because he
had not seen the elegant Robert, and very satisfied Amparo able to
showcase a boyfriend, to the annoyance of his sister.

Behind Mr. Tables giving arm Dona Manuela, intentionally squeezing
your elbow on your hip every time you let go daring and swagger a
little word as an invincible conqueror.

It was more than accompany the Pajares what did the father and son. They came up with they remained
for over an hour visit, he sang Amparito to give to his future father, they took to the streets,
the father and son marched fraternally united as partners by a common enterprise.

Only a few months had passed, but were already far away for those times tables the shopkeeper of
quiet habits and routine was indignant to learn that his son was
to dances and I was waiting behind the door clutching the measuring
stick fiercely.

IX

At four p.m. Pajares entered the Paseo de la Alameda.

It was Sunday, and noisy and expansive entertainment holidays filled the left hand side the
ride. The weather was beautiful: a summer afternoon, the sky cloudless, and what higher, as
a thin wisp of steam and barely visible, the moon, waiting patiently it is the turn to shine.
The long rows of roses, the clumps of plants, all that gardening mutilated and corrected by the
scissors in the manger, was green with the breath warm in the afternoon
and was covered with flowers, perfumes simple joining the wake of
essences Ladies who left in its wake.

For the central stream and whirled round like the wheel arcaduces,
carriages lined in an endless rosary.

The towers of the guards raised their caps painted tiles above the trees, and the two ends of
the promenade, dwarfed by distance, stood out on the monumental fountains green background with light
mythological figures clothes. It was the time the trip took on its most brilliant. A gallop
of barouches down spirited horses and saloons, and on the sidewalks of the parade walk slowly procession
to pass, families Sunday best. The green banks did not have a seat free. Beehive buzzing sounded
on the trip, so silent and deserted in the morning and some families naive talking loudly, causing
the compassionate smile that went hand in the brand new hat, waving a few heads rigid sombrerazos peered
through the windows of the carriages.

What attracted the attention of all was the endless parade of cars, symbols of happiness and welfare
in a country where the desire to get rich has no desire not to go on foot other mortals.

Horses pawing with his mouth full of foam, spreading around the smell of straw blocks, and occasionally
a whinny infusing the spirited gross line, which seemed answered with a nervous kicking this
call for freedom. The drivers, dressed in their white frocks, displayed at the top of the gallows,
their faces shaved and carrilludas obese or pastors comedians well preserved, and looked with
contempt to all that crowd were forced to spend a few hours of tedium. In the long line of vehicles
was the old phaeton, rocking on its springs as a big box and enclosing funeral in its interior
padding whole family, including the nurse, the lightweight saloon with its wheels red or yellow,
the reel, like a gondola, swaying to the lower land inequality, and indigenous galerita, graceful
transformation of the trap and a symbol of the petty bourgeoisie that stopped in the middle of
social metamorphosis, has one foot in the village, where applicable, and another in the aristocracy,
where it goes.

There seemed to be invisible and impassable barrier between people walking on foot and those
heads sticking out the windows, contracting with a smile always the same when received the
greetings of the people I know. Groups of riders mixed with young officers snails cavalry
between the carriages, lying sometimes on the neck of their horses to talk through a door. Pajares
those contemplated with banished nostalgia over the carriages. Great God, how late! Would remember
her life! It was the first time they went on foot to the Alameda. The girls, despite their elegant
suits, believed that all were set in them to smile sympathetically, and Dona Manuela walked
upright, proudly painful, more or less like Napoleon on St. Helena
after denoted. The widow sensed his ruin.

They were not distressed debt and monetary the bitterness of life, but now, fate, as she said, pleased
to overwhelm her with the beating, depriving the family of limited means to sustain that detracted
from his reputation.

That morning had been tested for Pajares. Nelet the driver went very alarmed to account to their
wives that the horse was sick. The event was not to take to laugh. It was not vulgar colic,
and the poor beast, unconscious sustaining prestige of the family, revolcábase down in the dark and
wet block, being belly up and paws stirred by a convulsive shudder.

The situation was ridiculous and touching. Many years of service had established some affection
between the ladies and the brave beast it was considered almost like family. Doña Manuela,
recording the train of her gown theater down the block, not passing the door for fear the horse,
which rolled furious.

Called the best veterinarian in the city, but the horse did not improve, and in the afternoon
desvaneciéronse the illusions that had the girls to ride in a carriage. Acquired almost certain
that the poor horse would not leave the disease.

What would they do when they see them confused between the corny who walked on foot along
the Alameda? What would her friends to see it passed time and the
beautiful galerita, of how proud they were, remained wedged in the
garage?

Because the two, although his mother, not to grieve, the hidden status house, were fully aware
of the plight of the family and were confident of the impossibility to replace the old but fiery
horse with one that were worth as much as him.

After eating, the mother and daughter sat down in the lounge, where they remained over an hour,
silent, sullen and moody. The day was gorgeous, but no, they would not leave: nuns that the
world first to know of their decline, their hardships so ably hidden.

But the three could not resign himself to spending the day indoors. In addition, the balconies
the sun came and blew an irritant perfume-laden air of summer. Involuntarily thought in the green
fields, in the exuberant crowd stroll in the pleasure of walking
slowly under the tilted umbrellas, seeing new faces and responding
to the greeting of friends, and finally mothers and daughters could
not resist any longer and began to dress.

- Do not be so scrupulous
- said Dona Manuela -.

We all know, and because one day walk out to see us not going to imagine that we lack the
carriage. Come on girls, to walk!

And they went home with the intention to go anywhere but to the Alameda. But the tour be turned on,
do not know where to go, and at last, insensibly, without agreeing, on they went there.

What Pajares spent the late afternoon! Were always outside, the girls answered Funny grimaces
with the greetings of friends, and mom, proud and majestic, sheltering
him all with their eyes for protection.

But inside many torments! If any friend of waving from his carriage with loving expression, the
three believed guess some semblance of pity, and reddened under Blanquete layer covering her cheeks.
If a known person stopped to greet them, them, one-eyed or right-and often all three at a
time rushed to say they'd walk out in view of the beauty of the evening, and continued looking with
nostalgia and spite the long line of carriages, experiencing the
same impression of our biblical fathers before the closed gates of
Paradise forever.

Then why such painful memories! All three of them obsessed with horse sickness, as if he were
family. He was sorry for having left home, felt the false hope for those who are interested in
a patient and believe that by remaining at his side accelerate healing. Saluted right and left; deteníanse
to shake hands, changing words about the weather or the outfits they wore on the ride over,
but his eyes were unconsciously to dwell on those horses who spent a few steps from them, and in
everyone, whether from the color, the head or rump, were somewhat similar to the other who was in
his memory.

That evening meetings were very painful. Andresito, the son of Paintings, went through the two
rows of mounting the huge big horse carriages that had bought his father. Sought the bride to
be escorted, wearing their skills around his horse carriage.

The innocent gesture of surprise that made to see them walk, confused between dominguera kitsch,
was a real stab to the three women.

Everything hurt their susceptibility. Roberto del Campo, who was with some friends, greeted
the most seductive of smiles, but they believed his lips distinguish ironic expression. Undoubtedly,
that junk Rafaelito Roberto had related to the horse. Were sure that all knew the ride unpleasant
event, guessing what was coming later. And blinded by wounded vanity, no doubt recalling the taunts
that they had conducted other families, turbábanse at times, thinking
she saw thousands of eyes on them and Rijos Ladies from the carriages
of smiling contemptuously, as if they were reared in disguise.

They even thinking shiver of terror if your s behind the laughably would point finger. And always
the damn horse was in his thoughts, seeing through the eyes of imagination
as it was on your block to ride them out, belly up, stretching legs
convulsively.

The three bear within them, as implacable enemy, his own thought, which made them see the mockery
and pity everywhere, and even believed some times known people pretended not to greet distraction.

-
Come on, girls - said the mother with an expression that vibrated
the pain and anger -, we home to see how it is "that."

Today the ride is very cheesy.

The girls supported the mother in a gesture of approval.

It was really, really cheesy, and the three set a disastrous withdrawal, overwhelmed, overcome, as
if it had to sustain a battle with public consideration, being beaten and battered. Going up
the ramp bridge Real had to depart from the curb, wiping with the lace scarves dust raised
by wheels of a carruajillo discovered running speed insolent over all in.

It was the last surprise. Mr. Cuadros, pulling the reins to restrain his swift horse and waving
his whip, the waving from the top of that nutshell wheels.

At his side was Teresa, overflowing their flesh flabby on the bench blue velvet moving his head
uneasily, as if the hood bothered you, loaded with roses and foliage,
gift from her husband.

- Until the night .... Goodbye, girls.

Tonight I'll see you.

And Teresa sent a smile with no expression to his old lady, and pleading
not to leave the task of religious instruction to her husband.

Dona Manuela was good for such information! He knew what he meant
the assiduous visits sometimes in the evening and others at night,
which made one fifty, but did not think that now. The meeting had
just upset her. His former coach bred, soiled by the dust of the wheels,
and she, the daughter of a millionaire, the widow of Dr. Pajares,
ski and humiliated by some people whom he had always treated with
contempt. I had never imagined what might happen. Burdened by debt,
waiting for the fall but not so deep and hurt to their dignity.

This
was too strong to resist. And the poor woman, all susceptibility and
pride felt something warm running together in their eyes, and had
to make efforts not to mourn. Its fast pace was a real leak. Fleeing
the ride, the one luxury that some days before was her element and
now seemed an insult.

When they entered the square where they lived,
the sight of his house, the gate ajar, enclosed balconies and facade
obscured by the last light of evening had a certain aspect funeral,
revived the memory of the three memories of the horse.

- God! How
will the poor Brilliant