 I watched carefully, and composing the glasses I notary
asked in a tone of tedious.

- What sent you?

He soon recognized me, and opening his arms cried:

- Rodolfo! Rodolfo! "You here? I knew from day to day would come .... Blessed God! And what you
grown! Praise the Lord for allowing me to see you made a baby boy,
one of the most handsome dandy!

Y. .. Above all, I know! I know! As always I'm asking for you. I know you've gone very used
.... Not like these young donkey that to no avail.

Not one of these rascals will bring beef ravine.

The poor old man, overjoyed, delighted in looking at me and hugged me, and went through my larguiluchas
cheeks and bloodless hands.

- Come in, boy, go to the room .... I have really wanted to talk to you. And your aunt? As
always, eh? The poor things always afflicted and infirm .... At any time thinking the nephew, the
nephew pampered.

Love him a lot, Rodolfo! For you ... Miracles! ... But, do I have to tell you, when you're
so good and so Noblot! Come in, boy, happens!

He said this stroking and pushing me forward, between the double row of seats. The boys opened
his eyes to see me as surprised by the strange sweetness of his master.

Near the table stood Don Roman, he turned toward the small fry, and cried solemnly in a tone of
sermon:

- This, this that you see, is one of my most beloved disciples.

Many times, many, I have spoken to him. It's smart, good student .... Take him as a model. This
it does not I was, like you, so many disappointments, it matches itself did not Galician, and
knew by heart the pasts, and understood, as a teacher, the sweet Virgil, the concise Tacitus,
and Asia and pomposísimo Cicero.

I expected myself.

Miracle did not finish the speech with some hexameters appropriate.

The boys to hear the familiar epithet, smiled mischievously, a sign that the nickname for the
teacher for us ten years ago, still in use. The rascal laughed and looked at each other with joyful
faces of devils.

- Let: - continued - I give the morning to you to celebrate the arrival of my disciple very loved.
But, hear me, no one will go until you hear the twelve. Stay here, without making mistakes.
The best day this young man again, and I look, and we'll see, we'll see what your Advances in beautiful
Latin language.

Don Roman raised his head and added:

- You, Pancho Martinez ....

A swarthy lad, lively, of nice appearance, he led.

While the child went to call his teacher I glanced around the room.

Had nothing varied. The same furniture, the same objects, the paper stained with ink, with signs
on covers, recorded a knife tip, the board, the same board from another time at his easel green
domino table occupied by the same books, all well placed. There was the bell, handle broken, and
ink surrounded by feathers, - Don Roman did not use other, - and next to the rod of sapodilla.
On the walls, blackened and chipped, two or three maps yellowish above the master chair, very polished
and resobado, Our Lady of Guadalupe, the patroness of the school before the image a little lamp,
a glass filled with dark blue oil in which floated a dying butterfly.

As soon as we entered the living room he heard the shouts of the school
crowd, festive, playful.

Noise laughter, roar slammed books, a thousand and a thousand voices, frank and cheerful of
freedom happy child.

The old man drew back angrily. He opened the door she rushed overwhelmed by, reminding roaring,
a torrent of laughter naive.

Don Roman, stern and irascible, issued new orders, threatened with stiff penalties, and then making
a gesture of grief, soon erased by resigned expression of sadness, came to the podium.

- Sit down, sit here in this chair. How pleased I am to see you! When you left I thought I do
not see them again .... I'm too old. Did not you see? In February fulfill seventy- two. I
have the aches and desmazalado sad. You consider all this, is not it?

Viejo, sick, lonely and poor! Is not it a sad thing, which breaks my heart, my situation after
working so much? You all are being met. I have disciples in all kinds trades and professions.
Some, in senior positions in politics, which were more disengaged, (Many did not exceed vel quis
quid), others in the Church (two I have already given communion); others, doctors and good doctors,
other lawyers, others, like you, on its way to people meal!

In fact, never worth much, nor for the conduct or by the application, insurance few students gave more
war than I pomposísimo teacher. But that was kind Mr. Don Roman. When they were in their seats,
they were all lazy, incompetent, donkey, then with the exception of those for dissolute end, everyone
was excellent, compliments, utilized.

But the truth is that I always wanted Romao as a child, he treated me with great kindness; rarely
feel my hands the beating of his rule, and that good old man, however their poverty, gave me
lessons for two years, without requiring any extipendio aunts.

I am distressed to see my teacher so sad and dejected, when he was so near the grave. Had I wanted
to be rich, rich, for protection against the misery, give him all he wanted, and buy for him,
if that were possible, health and youth.

- Did I mention I'm poor?

Well, I'm poorer than you can imagine. I have few disciples. You saw how many! Only two, some scams
that are going to salt all day, a few rogues who have no choice. What we do! My son, nobody
wants their children to learn Latin. You say! The Latin that is the key to science! Or Latin, or
anything else, all I can teach you everything I know, as you learned
here!

Say I'm late, that my teaching is anachronistic, have you heard?
"Anachronistic?

That will tell pedantic today, and all because mumble French. That's what the learned here
all they know, and now they do not want to confess that I owe everything. They say they no longer
serve to anything .... Why anything?

Well, they are not put before me, and open the Tacitus, or Terence,
and translate the passage that I would bring?

But yes, without the help of French versions ... Hey, what hurts me most, what comes to me
as I live, so I tear the heart, I feel here, like the blade of a knife, is that they say ....--
The poor old man wanted to mourn; his face contracted painfully, his voice was getting shaky,
his eyes peered a tear, - say ...-- and eventually made an effort - what I'm senile!

It broke my heart to see poor old man. He cried like a child. Eager relief comfort and vexed by
the wickedness and ingratitude, opened his soul, simple and full of pain, a poor boy who years
earlier was his disciple and phrases which he hoped compassionate terms of endearment.

- And as they say I'm senile, and as go repeating that everywhere I missing disciples I need
disciples and missing work, and unemployed, as you understand, I need money. There is no cure!
I will die of hunger, and bury me alms. Ten or twelve disciples low paying, and how! A few
little lessons and nothing else!

- Don Roman, - I answered - no folded. Nothing is eternal times vary ... the best day ....

- Yes, my son, vary the times, who can doubt it, but not for me! I have no more than prepare to die
a Christian. Poverty, misery, hunger, contumelies, all suffer with patience. What saddens me
and me bitter, it saddens and disturbs me is ingratitude.

- Do not folded, teacher. Instead you have the gratitude and love of many.

- Down? That no! - Said in a burst of energy .-- That no! Nobody will be surrendered. On the
contrary: arrogant, with pride dignity. So I do not want. Whenever solicitor settle accounts with
those ungrateful to these charlatans. Let him say Augustine, that macuache, learned here, here,
everything he knows, and is now Director, (I do not know what you can handle!) of Director of
the "National School!". The other day - here he smiled satisfied
the good old man - the other day, published in "La Voz de Villaverde"

(the paper that they released when the election of the Chief Political), a papasal, giving it strong
spirit, free thinker, and I, - the Dominie spoke softly, as if afraid that he might hear - what
I did? I took the pen, and I put mockery mocking gold and blue.

I sent "The Mountains" three press sucks way street.

Son: My man saw fire, and screamed, kicked, raged. The best day, then let me rheumatism, over
an article he Morrocotudo, Latin, Latin crisp and Cicero, and then we'll see, we'll see if he can
understand a word ... One! And another! Other How well you dance! "Ocaña, Ocaña Jacinto, who
came from Pluviosilla as wise as a kerbstones, and now runs the "School
of the Cure?"

This does not speak ill of me in the gossip, not me in the periodic
insults or makes fun of my gray hairs in Meconium pharmacy, no, but
one day in "El Puerto de Vigo" in the shop of my friend Don Venancio,
when approaching the exams, said he wanted me to Synod to school because
my method is "anachronistic."

Where did he get the buzzword? That said, why I made the speech on 16 September. I did not go to the
exams. The priest, who is a person Excellency, invited me, but chuck! I was not, I was not! ...
What was to be this poor old man! Ocaña wine then give me satisfaction, and a thousand hypocrisy
that I refused him .... Liar! If I knew it all from the mouth of Junior, the son of my friend
Don Venancio, who is my disciple. The boy told me the thing of the pa pe. But, my son, never mind
that. I very happy, I'm glad to see so great! Tell me, did you learn it? Are you going to continue
their studies? Follow them, follow them, you will make good race. I still remember the Latin, right?
Already we'll see. You will come, and see if you can translate a little something that I have saved
around: an ode Salic at Stony, our red Tiber. I like it, I am sure that you have to like!

Struck twelve in the tower of the parish, and in other churches of Villaverde. Bells home town! Grave
and solemn of the parish, screaming and dissonant those of Christ; annealed at San Antonio, very
compassionate and majestic Franciscan convent.

Again the noise, the shouting, the closing of books and the din of
drawers.

- I see those little devil! - Upset the old man said .--
awaits me or go?

Look: see a night by night I'm here, do not go out ever. At night there I have to deal with the
herd; see and hear the Odita. But before you give me a hug! Oh, boy, if you are already a man!
Di your aunts that go beyond.

IX

On the way out I stopped at the corner a few minutes. Ahead of me a group of children coming
from the 'National School', cheerful, talkative, brin bags with shoulder strap, very careful in
their ink, some bottles sealed with a cork and hang in the balance The crooks got caught in the
right hand index.

Almost advancing step beside me to pass some disciples of Don Roman, with the Nebrija under his
arm, serious, serious, proud, highly paid of their science, as people of very high knowledge. While
stopped school in the corner to take on the flattest of the curb a game of marbles or donkeys,
Latinos 'pomposísimo Cicero' long continued, turning to me with some mocking, impertinent
curiosity. At the end of the street in front of a store, a cart, pulled by a team, awaiting
the departure of the farmhands. Was loaded with barrels of rum and loaves of sugar-white, whose crystals
were wounded by the sun, sparkled with diamond lights. Animals, narrowed eyes, seemed to slumber.
The ox on the left, a beautiful Sardinian beef remained motionless,
the other white, streaked with black, whipping their backs with tail
to shoo the flies that harassed.

In the back of the wagon, on the rail, rested crinosa pica.

As I go, in every street, in windows and doors, I saw faces that were not new to me. When I look
at them as they were played loosely, back in the hidden corners from my memory.

Men and women looked at me earnestly and carefully examined my suit,
surprised the cut of my clothes, tight pants, then the use, of the
American cortita; of my red tie (which villaverdinos said of "Chinaco
'); of my hat curved, white, dotted with black spots, as if I had
it sprayed ink.

Formerly the villaverdinos abroad were coming to their picturesque city, for of derision and amusement.
Laugh begun by the color of their dress and their way of carrying hair. Whispered to him in
his beard, cut a coat, and then ended by imitating what censored - and in the worst way.

A long time ago that I put my feet in Villaverde, and I understand that my countrymen are now
over cult, because there I write, and I say they are not so: they no longer like to present poorly
dressed, they adopt the correct fashion, and that the tailor is villaverdinas
figurines are new every three months.

But then, when the events that befell I refer, was something else. The most handsome wearing
suede boots, the charro suit, poorly done and poorly chosen, was the usual, so the riders and
the neighboring Cocora Pluviosilla, where there has always been, even among the workers and
rural people, charros very Galanos, called Villaverde the dandies of the "Charrito of mud."

In the plaza of the city emblazoned nothing had changed: the parish was intact, equal, as I left
ten years earlier, with its graceful tiled dome, ruined tower, opening the weight of the bells "average"
- as Don Román - the grass grown in the cemetery; the front of the
temple, spontaneous festooned with ferns along the cornices shone
serum palms, and crowned with handsome plumage the crest above the
villaverdinos place everywhere.

Leaning against the tower, where cracks and leper roll the clock breaking colonial, with its field
marble and golden needles, invisible for anyone who saw from afar,
because the hidden the branches of magnificent cypresses, in whose
shadow the dandies shelter each Sunday, Mass after noon, they settle
down to see the girls coming out of mass very all dressed up and attack.

Quadrant a cleric melancholy, pensive, smoking, and an Arab front of his tent in the lower corridor
of the Municipal House a tattered police, with a rifle on his shoulder, walking, and back
in the Calle Real, miserable trade center villaverdino, a train, a beggar, and Dr. Sarmiento,
very quickly, thrown his hat to the neck; figure unchanged, eternal
type of physician short stocks.

The square, or rather the center of her garden in the past, thanks to the efforts of a Prefect
Santa Anna, was preserved as I left. Amid the secular power, wide basin eight sides with granite
fountain in the form of artichoke, which came out strongly thick
stream of clear water, when the winter gale made him pieces flooding
contour tiles.

The wall of masonry was crumbling and peeling, the chipped and crumbling banks, and the orange
trees that surrounded the fountain, anemic, devoured by ants. In a bed, the only one who seemed
such, some hardwood floors and shining, enflorecidas and gallant.

Drew my attention to the side of the temple, a new building, a magnificent house, bright appearance,
great for Villaverde and that place where everything is mean and vulgar. Linda house, eaves airy, with wide
and ripped windows, iron gates, windows elegant and marble thresholds.

The

living room windows were open. The luxurious furnishings, drapes, walls papered, mirrors, large
pictures with very fine engravings depicting biblical scenes (The
marriage of Isaac, Ruth and Boaz, Rebekah at the well), everything
pointed to the wealth of who lived there.

It sounded superb piano brilliantly.

Skillful hands he played in a flask highly applauded, "The falling leaves', dreamy and languorous
music that betrayed a melancholy performer.

I stopped near a gate.

Then I could descry inside: pretty garden, large and cool corridors,
railings pots filled with roses, camellias and azaleas, cages and
little cage, an aviary full of canaries that sang rejoicing.

In a mirror, fronting the window, see who played. She was a young blonde, wearing modest white
suit, one of those muslin dresses thread, fresh, light, fluffy, both nubile girls feel: outfits
worn with the unique charm chicks Villaverde and Pluviosilla. What graceful stool fell around
the undulating line of that skirt!

After the redowa, the beautiful young lady continued to play on the
keyboard. First, lightning-fast scales, whose notes popped like beads
on a necklace, then favorite passages, favorite subjects - a melodic
fragment, lulling and delightful.

Suddenly, when I least expected
it, he left the toilet seat. Closed the piano and ran the window.

Linda,
magical creature! But alas! I could not contemplate. I went ahead,
and went softly impressed. I felt that I heard behind me the noise
of the billowing chiffon skirt. I had to return the face value.

Why
at that moment I thought of Matilde, the sweet girl of my first love?
Ay! Why I thought I saw before me a pained face, crying and in pain,
the face of Angelina?

Minutes later, upon entering my house, came
to meet me the gentle maid. She was radiant joy. At me, lit ... and
looked down.

X

Andrew came to visit. I invited him to take a stroll
along the banks of the river, and then I said my aunts were in poverty.
To hold in school, but I shall not want, had done all sorts of sacrifices.
Cut back on spending at least possible, and worked from day to night,
sewing, tailoring and canned pastas, and making artificial flowers.
At one time cigarettes twisted "The port of Vigo." But the best day
sick aunt Carmen. Disease, common in Villaverde at the entrance of
the summer, fell on the bed. Dysentery passed, but the poor old woman
was infirm. Although apparently healthy, was wound incurable disease