 I wrote to Your Excellency and Your Excellency the King moved.

With the current level of clarity is the ignorance and prejudice of the old ideas, which are; the
line goes down the rivers Igatimí é Ipan, or by that mountain: for the first idea what to lose from
Concepcion parallel to the river currents or Appa, and what the average since the Igatimí
Yaguarey or Monici, which is the true Igurey of treaties. Because when the courts held the penultimate
contract, knew that this was Igurey north of Big Jump Paraná, and was very plentiful, whose circumstances
noted in the instructions to the respective commissioners, to meet him, like his headers were
close to those of the Corrientes River, to the knowledge of which also gave writing signals.
All of those circumstances, and nearly identical in name, Yaguarey or are in the Yaguarí, as
I have been seeing in my previous jobs, and as the undeniably last treaty was formalized under the
same faith, belief and speech above; ie the Igurey, whatever it may be, runs north of Salto
Grande, and the other circumstances can not be doubted that the Igurey
Yaguarey treaties.

More reason we must discard the line by that range, it takes away what it is the Yaguarey, but
win what Mr. Melo and I were on the slopes figurabamos the river
Paraguay, because from the Corrientes River to the north is not swampy
land allow such Paraguay.

When this is not sufficient to ever think of that mountain range, has just enough knowledge, which
only existed since the big jump up little farther north of the headwaters of Igatimí, as I
am informed, therefore, when the markers are found without it, will have to go to court to seek
the way, and where down the river Paraguay. And when you think you want to continue the line to the
highest point of land, supplying and the lack of hill or ridge with the blade, like this one
kiss per side or approach by far the Paraguay River will always be
impossible to go down to this: and hence many disputes and an endless
line.

Besides, as we entered the spot giving the Paraná watershed land from the mountains to Yaguarey, and
recovery would not have lost it. Finally, the piece of mountain existing according to the ideas
I have of her and the esperiencia in these countries, it can be demarcated in many years, at least
I would take to live till it's over, which circumstance alone enough
to prefer rivers and headed Yaguarey with it because both are known,
flowing and still preferable.

As if that be the reason for this mountain range was the one to initiate transactions, although
whatever it may be, always be detrimental and contrary to justice
and tried, briefly tell what interests us most and least, to the need
to lose, is the least can: and to fill my bad explanation included
a mapilla [1].

From the ridge, which runs south of the river Yaguarey Igatimí, there are many excellent yerba
minerals that do not benefit remote, but the lands passed by unhealthy and of poor quality,
lack of barriers or salty lands, without which no living here but six months all kinds of cattle.
But even if produjesen nuts, could not removed but the Parana, which is cut by the big jump:
so that, those lands may very well serve for desert that separates
the domains to the Portuguese but might be more useful because they
can communicate with them on the river Tiete