 Neither men nor the goats could reach them. Uncle Guster knew
what lay deeper in their black throats. Were hives hives they had centuries, natural shelters bees,
from the straits Ibiza and Vedra, came to take refuge in these caves inaccessible after fluttered
the fields on the island. He had been at one time of year to shine with such hydrants light wires
snaking down rocks. Honey was melted in the sun on the entrance dripping cave and useless outside
the tank.

Guster uncle pulled his fishing gear with a snort of satisfaction.

- And are eight! ...

Slope of a fishhook, and moved her legs coleaba a sort of dark gray
lobster.

Other similar lay inert in a basket next to the old.

- Uncle Guster,
do not you sing the Mass?

- If you allow ...

Jaime knew the habits
of old, his fondness for singing the songs of High Mass each time
she felt happy.

Withdrawn from long voyages, his pleasure was singing Sunday in the village church of San
Jose or San Antonio, then extending this fans all the happy moments of his life.

- Here I go ... here I come - said in a tone of superiority, as if
to excuse their companion the greatest pleasure.

Lifting his hand to his mouth, teeth extracted at once, keeping the belt. His face filled with
wrinkles around the mouth sunk, and began to sing the words of the priest and helper responses. His
voice trembling and children took on a serious sound slipping on the water extension and reproduced
by the echoes of the rocks. The goats Vedra occasionally responded to gentle bleating of surprise.
Jaime laughed at the vehemence of old, which, rolling his eyes, he carried a hand to hold the
heart volanti another rope. They stayed a long time, Febrer attentive to their rig, which not
perceive the slightest movement. All fishing was for the elderly. This put a bad humor, and
was suddenly disturbed by their songs.

- Enough, man Guster ... There is enough!

- You like it, right? - Said the old candidly -.

I also know other things, I know what the Captain Riquer: A happened, no stories. My father saw
him.

Jaime made a gesture of protest. No, nothing of Captain Riquer. He knew by heart the feat. In
three months they went out together into the sea, rare was the day
ended without the story of the event.

But Uncle Guster, with its unconscious senile, convinced of the importance of all his, had already
begun its history, and Jaime, his back, threw the body out of the rail, watching the deep
sea, refusing to hear again what he knew by heart.

Captain Antonio Riquer!

... A hero of the island of Ibiza, an ocean as big as Barceló ... But as was Barceló Ibiza Majorca
and the other, all the honors and degrees had been for him.

If there were any justice, should swallow the sea to the island proud stepmother Ibiza. Suddenly,
the old Spaniard was remembered Febrer, and remained in a confused silence for a moment.

- This is a thought - added apologetically -. There are good people everywhere. Vostro mercé
is one of them. But back to the master Riquer ...

He was master of a felucca armed Corsican, San Antonio, Ibiza manned, continuously galleys of
war with the Algerian Moors and the ships of England, the enemy of Spain. Riquer's name was
known throughout the Mediterranean. The incident occurred in 1806. On of the Trinity, in the morning,
was presented in view of the city of Ibiza a frigate English flag, tacking out of the reach of
the guns of the castle. Was Happiness The Italian ship Miguel Novelli, nicknamed "the Pope", a resident
of Gibraltar and the corsair English service. Came in search of Riquer, mock their own beards,
sailing arrogant view of their city. They played the alarm bells, drums sounded, the neighborhood rushed
to the ramparts of Ibiza and in the Marina district.

The San Antonio was fairings on land, but Riquer, with his family, threw it overboard. The
small cannon of the felucca had been dismantled, and hastily grabbed by ropes. All the Navy
wanted embarking, but the captain chose only fifty men, and heard mass with them in church San Telmo.
By going to hoist the sails came Riquer's father, an old sailor, and trampling the strength of
her son got into the ship.

San Antonio needed the long hours and expert moves to approach the frigate "Pope." The poor
man looked like an insect xebec beside the great ship, manned by
people more brave and adventurous collection in the spring of Gibraltar:
Maltese, English, Romans, Venetians, liorneses, Sardinian and raguseos.

The first volley of cannon from the ship kills five men felucca on the cover, including the father
of Riquer. He picks up the mangled corpse, stained with his blood, and runs to hide in the
hold. "They killed our father!" Riquer brothers groan. "What we are! - He cries harshly -. For
the bottles! The approach! "

The "bottles" terrible weapon of the corsairs Ibiza, bottles that
break on igneous enemy cover the fire with your fire, falling on the
ship the "Pope."

Arden's ropes, flame the draft, and as the flames leap demons Riquer and yours, gun in one hand,
the hatchet in the other approach. The roof drips blood, dead bodies roll into the sea with her
head smashed. When Papa found it hidden and half dead fear in a closet of his camera.

And Uncle Ventolera laughed with her child's laughter to remember this great victory grotesque de
Riquer. Then, to be conducted "the Pope" to the island, the people
of the city and the peasants flocked watched it as a rare animal.

This was the pirate terror of the Mediterranean! And they had found stuck between tables for
fear of Ibiza! He formed process to hang on the island of the Hanged, an island where the lighthouse
was now in the narrow of Freus, but Godoy gave orders to the number of prisoners exchanged
for Spanish.

His father had seen these great events: going to a page in the felucca de Riquer. Then there
fallen captive to the Algerians, being the last slaves, before they reached the French Algiers.
There he was in danger of dying a day that decimated all the killing an evil Moor, whose body
was found stuffed into a latrine. The guy remembered Guster also from the stories his father used
to the time when pirates and had reached Ibiza apprehended vessels to port, with Moorish and Moorish
captives. The prisoners they appeared to the 'clerk of prey "to witness the event, and were
required oath of truth "By Alaquivir, the Prophet and the Koran,
high arm and index finger, looking at his face the birth of the sun.

" Meanwhile, pirates hard Ibiza, to share the spoils aside a fund for the purchase of linen
bandages destined to become its future wounds, and left another part of the profits to "a priest
to celebrate Mass every day while they are out of the island.

"

The guy went from Riquer Ventolera other brave Corsicans patterns before him, but James, bothered by
his talk, in which lay a desire to impress on the island of Mallorca,
neighbor and enemy, finally impatient.

- What are the twelve, Grandpa!

... Come, no longer bite.

The old man looked at the sun, which exceeded the top of Vedra. It was not yet noon, but lacked
little. Then he looked at the sea, Mr. was right: no longer would sting the fish, but he was satisfied
of the day.

With his wiry arms pulled the rope, raising the small triangular sail the boat. It leaned over
the side, nodded a little on the spot, and suddenly began to cut the water with a gentle whisper.
They left the canal, leaving the Vedra and following the coast of Ibiza. Jaime at the helm, and
the old, keeping the fishing basket between his knees, was counting and fingering the pieces
with greedy delight.

They turned out and showed a new section of the coast. On a mound of red rocks, cut at intervals by
dark patches of scrub, a tower stood out wide and yellow a flattened cylinder, without holes
by the sea side of a window, black hole irregular contours. In the crown of the tower, a loophole
that had served in other times for a small canyon on the chopping cut its blue sky. On one side
of promontory bluff overlooking the sea, down the ground, covered with green trees low and hardwoods,
including white spot poked a meager settlement.

The boat was heading to the tower, and came close to a beach she desvióse immediate hitting his
head on the gravel bottom.

The old sailing subsided and approached the boat an isolated rock
in the middle of the beach, from which hung a string.

She tied the boat and then he jumped out and Jaime.

Did not want to dry the boat, thinking back the sea that afternoon, after eating: jig question
about long lines, to pick her up tomorrow next. "He was accompanied by Mr? ... Febrer shook his
head, and the old man fired it until the next night. I wake up from the beach when singing the Introit
still had stars in the sky. The sunrise was surprise at the Vedra. To see if the Mr tower out
soon!

He walked away the old inland slope of an arm carrying a basket of fish.

- Give you my hand to Margalida, Guster uncle, and soon bring me food.

The sailor answered with a shrug of the shoulders, without turning his head, and Jaime was moving
the edge of the beach to the tower. His feet, shoes sandals, trod the gravel, in which they
lost the last tremors of the sea. Among the blue stones could be seen clay fragments, pieces
of handles, concave surfaces of pottery, with traces of ancient motifs
that may have belonged to vessels bellied, small irregular spheres
of gray earth, which seemed to guess, through brackish water and nibbling,
faces reportedly faces tensed by the passage of time.

Offal were mysterious of storm days, fragments of the great secret of the sea who returned to
light after a concealment of thousands of years, the story confusing and legendary returned
by incoherent waves to the shores of these islands, shelter in ancient times the Phoenicians
and Carthaginians, Arabs and Norman. Guster uncle spoke of silver coins, thin as wafers, found
for boys to play in the coastline. His grandfather had told him as a child, the tradition of containing
treasures underwater caves, caves of the Saracens and Normans who had been walled with boulders,
disappearing after the secret cache.

Jaime began to climb up the rocky hillside path to the tower.

The tamarisk stood its rough and noisy dwarf pines, which seemed to feed off the salt dissolved
in the environment, sinking its roots into the rock. The wind of stormy days, removing the sand,
leaving bare its many tangled roots, and thin black snake in which often tangled Febrer feet.
The echo of the steps he responded in the bushes a fearful rumor snap runs and leaves, looking
to spend between kills and kills, with blind speed, a lump of gray
hairs with button-shaped tail.

The drain was running rabbits to lizards lazily stretched emerald the sun.

Along with these rumors reached the ears of a weak Jaime drumming and a man's voice Ibiza sang
a romance. Stopped from time to time as indecisive, repeating the same verses tenaciously until
he could pass new ones, throwing the end of each stanza, as usual the country, a strange clucking
like the cry of a peacock, a trill harsh and strident as the accompanying songs of the Arabs.

When Febrer was at the summit saw the musician sitting on a stone behind the tower and contemplating
the sea.

It was a atlot he had found Mallorquí Can sometimes, the home of his former Pep tenant. He was
leaning on a Ibiza thigh drum, small drum painted blue flowers and golden foliage. The left arm
rested on the instrument and face resting in one hand, almost hidden by the palm and fingers.
Armed with the right hand stick Slowly beat one of the patches, and so remained motionless,
reflective attitude to concentrated thought in his improvisation, considering the vast horizon
of sea through their fingers.

He was called the Sung, as all those who sing the new verses island dances and serenades. He
was a tall lad, peaky and narrow shoulders, a atlot had not yet reached the eighteen years.
Singing, coughed and heaved his fragile neck arrebolándosele face, a transparent white. His eyes
were large, the eyes of women, with the color tear rose very outgoing. Costume party dressed at all
times: his pants were velvet blue belt and the loop that served as
a red power tie, and over the last held a women's garment pañolito
wound to the neck, with embroidered edge ahead.

Two roses peeped over his ears, and under the brim of his felt, pushed back and trimmed with
a ribbon flowers, curly bangs escapábanse in the ripples of her hair, glossy ointment. Febrer,
seeing these ornaments almost feminine, her large eyes and pale complexion,
the anemic compared to a girl who idealizes the modern art.

But this virgin showed a disturbing package in the hem of her red
sash.

Undoubtedly it was a knife or pistol of manufacturing the blacksmiths of the island's constant
companion all atlot Ibiza.

When he saw the singer Jaime got up, leaving the drummer slope of
a strap attached the left arm, while her right hand, still holding
the stick, touched the wing of his hat.

- Bon tengui days!

Febrer, like any good Spaniard believed in the ferocity of Ibiza, however admired they look
to find them courteous on the roads. Killed each other, always matters love, but the stranger
was observed, with the same traditional qualms showing Arab hospitality
man who calls his tent.

The singing seemed embarrassed that Mr. Nadal had surprised him with
his home on land that was theirs.

Stammered excuses. Came to sit there because he liked to watch the sea from a height. He felt
better in the shadow of the tower, troubled him with no friends their presence and could freely
compose the verses of a romance for the next dance the people of San Antonio.

Jaime smiled at the shy singer excuses. Surely, his poems were dedicated some atlota. The boy nodded.
"Yes, sir ..." "Who was she?

- Flo d'enmetllé - said the poet.

"Almond Blossom !...» Nice name. And encouraged by the approval of the master, followed atlot
speaking. "Almond Blossom" was Margalida, but the daughter of Mallorquí Can Pep. It was he who
was given this name, seeing it as white and beautiful flowers when casting the almond frost finish
and come from the sea blows warm heralds of spring. All contour boys repeated the name, and
Margalida was not otherwise known.

The singer confessed to have some ability for the invention of nicknames
beautiful.

What he said was forever.

Febrer welcomed the words of the boy smiling.

Where had taken refuge in poetry? ... Then he asked if I worked, and atlot replied negatively.
They did not want their parents: City physician had seen a market day, advising his family that
avoided all fatigue. And he, satisfied with the council, spent the days of labor in the countryside,
in the shade of a tree, hearing the birds sing, watching the atlotas passing through the paths;
and when boiled in a trovo head again, sat on the shore of winding slowly, locking it in memory.

Jaime
took leave of him: he could continue his literary work.

But a few steps he stopped, turned his head to not hear the drum again. The singer retreating
downhill, afraid of upsetting the man with his music, and went in search of another lonely
place.

Febrer came to the tower. All that seemed far lower floor was a solid construction. The door was
at the level of the upper windows, so they could avoid the old guard surprise of pirates, using
for their inputs and outputs of a scale, that they withdrew inside
as night fell.

Jaime had been making a crude wooden ladder to get to your room, but do not ever retire. The
tower, built of sandstone, was slightly corroded on the outside by the sea wind. Many stones were
rolled out from their sockets, and these cavities were disguised as steps to climb the tower.

Ascended
to his room alone.

It was a circular piece, no more holes than the door and rear window openings in the tunnels
seemed almost excessive thickness walls. Here, on the inside, complained bitterly to the dazzling
whitewashed carefully Ibiza lime, which gives a smooth transparency
and milk to all buildings, communicating mansions cheerful aspect
to the squalid huts of the countryside. Only in the vault, cut through
a skylight revealing the old stairs to the platform, the soot was
of the fires that were lit in the past.

Mismatched tables and wooden
crosses that served to reinforce the door closed, window and skylight.
There was no glass in the tower. It was still summer, Febrer, undecided
about his fate, or rather indifferent, let the work of a permanent
installation later.

She looked beautiful and seductive this retreat,
despite his rudeness. Hand it felt addicted Pep and grace Margalida.
Jaime took notice how sharp the walls, cleaning of the three chairs
and a table of tables, furniture fregoteados by the daughter of his
former tenant