 I
find that life-giving power in a portion of matter admirably organized, and conspires to an
organization whose purpose is the harmonious exercise of the powers of this living we call animal
not knowing what that force in itself, does not prevent me to affirm its existence, and that
the phenomena revealed to me in an incontestable.

[17.] What then is the fate of these souls or those vital forces in destroying they enliven
the organization? Is it reduced to nothing and can not be broken not consist of parts? Will they
continue to exist, waiting for their turn to chair a new organization? Here are several questions
that determine who is good to examine then separately.

If the soul of brutes has no parts, disorganization can not perish; not disorganized which is not
organized, and it is not that which has no organized party.

From this it follows that the soul of brutes can not perish by corruption itself, for so it
has to verify all be that is not composed of matter. I do not see that under this aspect can offer
no difficulty, but the question is unresolved but its negative part,
because so far we only know that the soul of brutes is not corrupted
or decomposition does not die; fáltanos know what it is, is it overwhelms?

Are you still there? and if so, in what way? These are different questions.

Above all it should be noted here fit conjecture, rather on the possibility of reality, philosophy
can make us descry what might have, not what is, as reality can be to us not known without
experience, and that we need in this case. In good philosophy, when asked what is on this point,
the best answer is: no I know, when asked what could be, then enter
the reasoning based on general principles, and particularly in the
analogy.

[18.] It is often said that nothing is destroyed, this proposition was necessary explanations. What
means to annihilate? cease to be, without remaining anything that had before, if disorganized a body,
no longer as an organized body, but the matter remains, there is as annihilation. Is it true
that nothing is destroyed? According to some, one must distinguish between substances and accidents;
as the latter are a kind of incomplete beings, there is no objection to leave to be without remaining
anything from them, but that will not annihilate itself disappearance says: so we see that things
are continually transformed, ie suffering from a succession accidents, which no longer exist
when the thing ceases to be amended as respective. As to the substance, if there would cease
to be true annihilation; but this does not take place because no substance is destroyed. So
some people think, I do not know what is truth in this system because I do not know which is the solid
foundation that can buttress. If a substance for an object, in ceasing this why could not annihilate?
A being raised, you need continuity of action breeder Being conservative, thus stated that conservation
is a continuous creation and when leaving the object that is intended to raised substance,
what problem will it be annihilated? I do not see that this repugnant and to the wisdom or
the goodness of God, when an architect has an instrument to stop serve, or discard as unusable:
in God this would be equivalent to removing the conservative action, and the creature, to be
reduced to nothing, if not repugnant to the wisdom and goodness of God that an organized being
is disorganized or ceases to exist and be organized, why they hate which a substance ceases to
exist when they had fulfilled the purpose for which it was intended? this it follows that
it would not be contrary to sound philosophy to hold that the souls
of brutes are reduced to nothing.

[19.] But suppose you do not want to go to annihilation, is there any problems or continue in its
existence? if any, is not reached.

What might? I do not know, but it is permissible to surmise that absorbed back in the deep
of nature would be useless. Nor do we know they serve many other beings, not However, neither denying
its existence so, or we question its usefulness. Who has told us the life force that resides
in the rough not having any object in destroying she encouraged the organization? The destruction of
a plant "by chance brings extinction of all vital forces in this living? and those forces, to
exercise its action about being organized is just destroyed, "left by chance to be useful in
the mysterious laboratory of nature? Who told us that a vital force can not be useful but exerted
on an object of our observation? Who told us that in the secret nature of the vital forces do not
act in ways very different, very many, and the effects of their activities do not occur in
very different ways, according to circumstances they are all in conformity to the laws established
by the infinite wisdom? The great profusion with which they are scattered seminal materials, the
number of germs find that everywhere, the immense amount of subject matter in processing and
assimilation in living the mysteries of generation in the plant and animal All this does not
indicate that the universe is shed by a number of vital forces, which operate in very different
ways and on a scale of amazing extension? Who assures us that one vital principle is unable
to produce very different phenomena according to the which is subject to conditions? which lies
in the acorn is not the same as the corpulent oak which has challenged the momentum of hurricanes
for a few centuries? If experience not testify who would be able to suspect that the vital principle
of a worm report and foul is the same as a beautiful butterfly? See it as it is contrary neither
to the reason or experience, to suppose that the soul of brutes, that life force in them lies,
whatever it is, continues to destroy the organization after his body, and absorbed back into
the treasures of nature, preserved in them, not as a useless, but exerting its activity in different
ways according to the conditions subject to which it is [I].

CHAPTER III.

Sleep and wakefulness.

[20.] The fact the feeling is linked with others, and this link is much of our knowledge. It has
been said tone is quite confident that it was not possible to demonstrate feelings by the existence
of bodies, because one thing that those being purely inside, it was possible that would lead
us to infer the existence of an external one, and there was no objection to all our feelings
were a set of individual phenomena locked inside our soul. At first glance it seems impossible
to drop the difficulty: no But if you examine it thoroughly, they
will see that you have been given more importance it deserves.

[21.] The first objection is often made against the testimony of the senses is based on difficult
to distinguish with certainty the waking state of sleep. Sleeping receive impressions similar
to those which affect us awake: how do we make sure that the illusion is not life? The Abbe
de La-Mennais, with that exaggeration that characterizes him, has
said: "Those who prove that the whole life is a dream, a chimera indefinable
would do more than what they could all philosophers to date.

"

I think this is in serious difficulties, but I can not persuade me to be insoluble. I first of all
to examine whether sleep and wakefulness are different, not only in the eyes of sense common, but also
on the right. La-Mennais intended that only the court's consent community can achieve a final
and satisfactory, I am convinced that the reason severe cases can reach the same result to
leading us together, the inner meaning, common sense and common consent,
or in other words, the testimony of our being and that of our peers.

[22.] The man finds itself in a completely satisfactory assurance
of difference between sleep and waking, to know that we are awake
we do not need the testimony of others.

The difference between these states must be sought not only to the clarity and vividness of
feelings, and current certainty that they engender. Undoubtedly, sometimes in the dream images
presented to us as clearly as if we were awake, and that the certainty is now complete. Who has not
experienced during sleep, lively joy or terrible anguish? It is true that some, very rarely,
disperta, we reminiscence that in the very act of sleep loomed the question of whether we dreamed,
but they rarely frequency, and in general can be sure that the dream does not go along with
this twilight of reflective reason, that warns us of our state, and the illusion that we suffer.
For the ordinary, the duration of sleep, I have no doubt about what we dream, and embracing
a friend with a tender effusion, or cried uncontrollably over his
grave, under the same conditions we would produce the reality.

[23.] The difference is not in the current uncertainty, because on
the contrary, usually have complete certainty.

Where is it? Indicates how the reason? How comes philosophy in support of the internal sense and common
sense? This is what we are going to examine.

Regardless of whether sensations have some relation to external objects, whether his testimony is
sufficient for this or that case, and considering them only as phenomena
of our soul, there are two completely different orders of characters
acts very marked: the sleep and wakefulness.

In the depths of our souls, these two states are entirely different: even in the idealistic
system, we must recognize this distinction.

Reflecting on what we experience from which we live, or from which! what happens within us, we can
see that there is in our being two kinds of phenomena. A regular and steady, experienced two
sets of feelings: the one most or less clear, more or less alive, simply limited to the subject
without the assistance of many of our faculties, and especially without reflection on themselves,
in pursuit are other, always clear, always alive, accompanied by acts of all our faculties,
with reflection on them, on their difference of the above, with complete
subjection to our free will in all matters relating to vary, modify,
and reproduce them disappear in a thousand different ways.

I see the paper on which I write, I reflect on this vision, and I take it off when I want and
return to have it when I like, and I link this feeling with others, and a thousand thoughts, with
a thousand fancies, if I like it. What happens to me in this act, has ever happened to me,
and goes on while I check on me this series of events in this state I call waking; but if you
dream of writing, even if it did not happen that often, if not direct hit pen, not to see it
clear, all confused, I do not feel that simultaneous exercise of all my faculties, not reflect
on the state where I am, I am with the full awareness of what I do with that domain myself, with
the clear light and lively in the waking state is poured over all my actions and their objects.
Dispierto, I think what I did, as I do, what do I remember the dreams and qualify for illusions,
and judge them as unrelated species, extravagant, and compare them with the order and the consequence
of what is being offered at the vigil. None of this while I sleep: maybe There will be a clear
feeling, living, but in a way independent of my will; is an isolated printing is the use of
a single power, without the help of others, without fixed and constant comparisons, as I get
when I'm awake, and above all this phenomenon disappears shortly, or return to be plunged into a state
that I have no conscience of me, or go into another, which reproduces the same set of phenomena
than before: clear lucid related; undergoing the test of reason compared to each other and with the
above. Then, apart from any idea of ??the outside world, and even every other being outside
ourselves, we the accuracy of the distinction of the two orders of phenomena, we understand the
words, sleep and wakefulness.

When it has tried to attack the certainty of our knowledge on the basis of the difficulty to distinguish
between these states, has seized on a futile argument, supported by a made entirely false.
So far I believe in the impossibility of distinguishing philosophically
waking from sleep, rather that I think the difference between these
two states is a of the most clear and certain of our nature.

Established this truth, and of course no doubt that the sensations
experienced during sleep, are not produced by external objects, and
therefore has not ever taken the as a means of getting the truth,
let us turn to another question of greater difficulty and importance.

CHAPTER IV.

RELATIONSHIP OF AN EXTERNAL WORLD SENSATION.

[24.] Our feelings do they have any relation to external objects or phenomena are simple of our
nature? The existence of this inner world that is the set of scenes offered by the feelings, can
we infer the existence of an external world?

This is not the practice but the theory: this question relates only to the forces of reason,
not to the voice of nature: the stronger voice than any speech, and it is impossible to resist. Whatever
the result we shall give a philosophical examination relations between the ideal and the real
world, it must submit to the need for our nature that makes us believe
in the existence of such relationships.

Humanity in the vast majority of individuals, not ever thought, and probably think, in such examination,
and yet, for her, the existence of a real world, different from us, and continuous communication
with us is immune from doubt. Nature is before that philosophy.

Do not want to indicate that the reason is powerless to express the legitimacy of the inference
It follows that the real from the ideal, or the existence of the external world of the inmate;
I intend only to draw a boundary philosophy, if not shown, at least inspire you sobriety in their
research, and mistrust in the results. And in effect, jump to the eyes must be wrong to oppose
science to contradict a necessity and a fact palpable does not deserve the name of philosophy,
which is set to fight a law that subjects his unwavering rule of humanity, even the philosopher
who dares against this law to protest. All she can say against this law will be as specious as desired;
but not more than an idle reverie: reverie that if the weakness of the understanding bastare to
undo, it will be good to resist nature, until a new existence in
another life has come to reveal what is in the depths of these mysteries,
and how they link those links whose contact points can spot the reason,
while nature experiences Grasp the irresistible that link at all stages
of their existence.

[25.] That feeling is something more than mere phenomena of our soul, which are effects of a cause
other than ourselves, is shown by the comparison of them with each
other; about the refer to an external object, and others do not: these
two orders of phenomena present characters very different.

Now there is in me to represent the country where I was born and lived in my first years. It
clearly gives me the broad plain with its fields and meadows, with their low hills that are now isolated
mounds, now extend in several directions flattening to be confused with the level of flat or gradually
rising until joining with the branches of the mountains. I see the high mountain range that
surrounds this whole plain, and that makes it a vast basin, where no more output can be seen
by the party of the south, and the occasional crack that seems to rip into some points raised
by the great wall nature. All this represents me very well inside me, notwithstanding further
than a hundred leagues away: and I represent many times I will, and by the time I want. Perhaps
that may happen without the help of my will offer me the same show, but I'm always free to
distract me, running down the curtain so to speak, for not see that
scene as well as to rise again when I feel like to witness it.

What happens in that instance I was checked against many others, and so I experience within myself
a series of events that I represent external objects, but without
any need to force me to be subjected to them, they take them off and
reproduce with simple acts of my own free will.

At the same time I feel in me happens that another class of phenomena that are not pending my
will, I can not stir or remove when I want, but are subject to certain
conditions, of which I can not do without, on pain of not achieving
what I propose.

Now that I'm experiencing is a picture, or common language, I see a picture I have before. Let
this be a purely internal, and observe the conditions of their existence,
irrespective of any external reality, including that of my body and
the organs through which they passed me, or seem to spread the feeling.

Now

experience the feeling .... now, what has mediated? the sensation of movement, has produced another
sensation of seeing and vision that has destroyed the first, or from the ideal to the real
language, I brought her hand between his eyes and the object. How is it that while is the last sensation
I can not play the first? If there are external objects, if my feelings are produced by them,
it is clear that subject to the conditions that they impose on them: but if my sensations are
nothing more than internal events, then there is no way to explain it.

This is even more incomprehensible, as in the feelings that we consider simple phenomena, no immediate
relation to any external object, we found no close dependence of one compared to others, and on the
contrary we noticed a lot of disagreement.

Purely internal events, ie those we truly be for such, are very dependent on the will, with
respect to its existence and also to their changes. I play whenever I want in my imagination,
a scene in which I represents the column of the Place Vendome in Paris, and make it disappear when
I like. The same thing happens to me all the other objects that I remember seeing: his presence
in my interior depends on my will. It is true that sometimes you would not want to represent objects,
and hard to make them disappear, but so is that some efforts are sufficient to finally disappear.
Have we seen a person dying, and for a few days remains imprinted in our imagination with his
face pale and South-East, his eyes bulging, convulsive hands, the contortions of his mouth, his painful
death rattle interrupted by some plaintive woes, we are not masters of all of this we are not ungrateful
repeatedly image, but it is certain that if we intend to distract a very complicated calculation,
or solve a difficult problem, we will make the image disappear. Whence we see even in exceptional
cases, provided that we are in sound mind, always exercise our will a great influence on the
phenomena purely internal.

Not so with those who are in immediate relationship with the outside, if I am in the presence the
dying person can not but see and hear you: if those feelings are nothing more than a internal
phenomenon, this phenomenon is of an order very different from the other: one is completely independent
my will, the other not.

Purely internal phenomena are interlinked in a very different others:
those relationships too much influence will, in others not