 The
Ministry of War, the Management of the Weapons and other military facilities were full of soldiers
and officers, protected by recommendations, had found means to circumvent his bad luck, getting
rid of joining their battalions, and the abuse took such proportions that it was necessary
to avoid it.

When stakeholders were calmer, he ordered that, within three days, all individuals placed on
the premises of the Ministry in the past six months hospitalized in their bodies, whatever their
origin and how this meant the inevitable accuracy out to operations overnight, Pepe decided carry
out its purpose. Regarding his father, had everything planned: what was was made as simple
as sad a stretcher to transport you on Engracia house, and carry then his bed, his clothes and
some furniture, preserved more useful than for sellers. The difficulty was in determining
to take Dona Manuela and Leocadia. What would you do? To persist in following up on the streets
of keypads, with what resources? And to find another room, what means would have? Not hide
the clear understanding Pepe who, though sick of reason, should not be thrown into the street
to his mother and sister, but also saw that the fanaticism of Dona Manuela and subsequent behavior
could result in Leocadia during his absence, the total abandonment of the poor old man.

- You speak to them - Pepe said Miller, trying this. I lack courage, and may also I miss calm.

- I see your mother ... With Leo did not speak.

- Whatever.

- When
you think that we have the transfer to your father?

- This is done
in one morning.

The main thing is that you speak.

If God touched my heart! What do I do not want to leave the house?

... and although they lend themselves, where are they to put in and how will they live? It seems
incredible that we've got to have to think about it!

Miller did not seek to Dona Manuela at home, not to see Leocadia, but eager to meet the difficult
task of Pepe, went to the alms of light. The first trip was made in vain: Dona Manuela refused
to receive him. At the second attempt, he was told not to leave because he was in worship, but said
the chaplain prayed, his son, which had fit.

Miller came on the same visiting room where he was received days before Pepe, when he sought
see his mother, and within minutes was tabled Tirso. Despite the dead, for work the affection of
Engracia, Millan was the love of Leocadia, the presence of the priest was impressed unpleasantly,
even tougher in his anger toward the man, that wiped with their first loves. Thus no resistance
to dealing with the priest: the opportunity came unceremoniously shot to treat and also understood
it was better with him than his mother, whose goodness there was morning, and shortness of
understanding which would not have, of fixed, fixed. He preferred the risk of a violent scene with
the man, the prospect struggling with weak or passive resistance
alone.

- In what I can do for you? - Tirso asked.

- I come from
Pepe.
