 Sit here, while you're getting dinner. Will you be hungry, right? He eats
very badly for these roads. Pepa, Pepa! Put the candle here, close enough to come see me right
the master of the house.

Tia Carmen came over the table, which, in a brass candlestick, burned with a red light tallow
candle. As I saw at will, insisted impatiently

Obedeciéronla. I sat by his side. Andrew and Aunt Pepa were standing in front of us. From the
door that opened into the inner rooms, she saw us. She was tall and slender, dressed in white,
and I thought of singular beauty.

The patient wiping her tears.

It was always stern and severe, never flattered, never had a sweet and gentle words. The disease
had broken that whole character, iron, as a piece. Now he had tenderness and delicacy that moved
deeply.

- Ah, now you see my taste! Jesus! How handsome you are! Look, Pepa, look: you already have
mustache! Enterito his grandfather!

His voice was weak and dull. As if the thought of leave to fly to the regions Ultra-grave, he
remained silent the old, fixed on the ground the look. After a while continued, smiling painfully,
with the smile of the elderly come to die:

- How do I find it, son? "Evil, right? Remember? Before so strong,
so active!

Was me at all! Now, here I am, as prey, as if crickets ... Worse
than if had!

Here I am, stuck in the butaque, unable to take a step, without being able to help your aunt.
The poor thing, you do not stop! And I in no way relieves you work, before, on the contrary, I
give pursuit.

These nerves, son!

Don Pancho Sarmiento, (very good to us, if scallops!) said that all I have is a thing of nerves.
Nerves, nerves, and this is that to me, my forces are more and more every day! ...

When he said this made me a sign of intelligence, as indicating that the cheating, which she
did not think anything of what he said about his illness.

- That you're getting a dinner. While talk of something else.

To sad things, time will be.

I tried to reassure her.

I told him a thousand cases of nervous diseases that looked like grave evils, and that with
time and care had gone, leaving patients good and healthy.

He seemed satisfied and turned to me and said smiling:

- I've walked a lot. You'll see this very sad. 'll Be right, son, no one moves here; all live as
tired as overwhelmed with annoyance.

You went well in your exams, and what know!

Ricky Tejeda told us the night we came to visit. The poor man wants you much. He told us you were
very scared.

We pray for you, Pepa went to Mass that day, and I lit a lamp to
San Luisito, your San Luisito, so you take out safely.

And tell me, what gave you the money you send for the suit? We know that yes, but you I wonder whether
you got it in time.

- Yes, and certainly I felt much you make that sacrifice ....

- Oh boy! Have you come to the slaughter, as in all your letters? What sacrifice!

- No, aunt, but ....

- You had to be presented well. Fortunately in those days got a little money, that of home.
Do you know that we sold?

- Yes, - I said - I think I wrote it.

- You say: I was already so old! Replenish it had spent more.

I realized that trying to trick me, make me believe that they lived comfortably.

- Look, Pepa: he put to this dinner. He eats so bad for those roads! ...

My aunt, she and Andrew were removed to the dining room. Soon they call me. The young man came
saying

- Even though it is dinner ....

I stroked my poor aunt, and went to where I expected. The good Lord would treat a king, and yet
so modest dining and so sad!

III

I closed the door, put down the bright candle, and blow extinguished the candle.

Elbows on the sill I began to contemplate the sky. The autumn winds had spread in a few minutes
black cloud cover, uniformly dark, and only a sparse and subtle point, to the East, where through
white veils left guessing the higher regions of ether, the upper
ocean air, clean, lined by thousands celajes flying.

Could hear the distant sound of rain. Garden plants swaying rustling. Oleander swinging their
flexible stems, the swaying in the dark floripondio their bells satin, and the splendid glass
of orange the first drops, thick and resonant, fell with extraordinary momentum, the forerunners
of a long rain.

I was in the house of my own. But alas! how sad it appeared before my eyes. It was not that house
bright and cheerful little house where I was born, that held my children and I saw out from there in
tears. The house of my parents was foreign! Who lived there? Perhaps who was not able to love
and to estimate its beauties. My parents died there, leaving in the cradle, where the grandfather
slept peacefully in the Lord, there ran my life joyful and Ventura. Which sentence that would
leave my aunts house, center of all their affections, reliquary of the sweetest memories! I
imagined, and my eyes filled with tears. Well seen I was alone, the good old soon undertaken the
eternal journey and left me I would in a world that caused me fear.

The rain intensified. Distant thunder, lightning flashing from distant light, announcing that
invaded the mountain storm. The water fell in torrents. In the orange fluttering birds, frightened
to feel flooded their nests.

A moth grazed his forehead.

I lit the candle and closed the window. There was my bed as a child: the iron bed its white
curtains, and for which I had longed so often in the cold and desolate
college dormitory.

There was the washstand fitted throughout, with its woven towel Aunt Pepa. Beside the bed,
above the desk, the square of San Luis Gonzaga. Ahead on the bureau, the portrait of grandfather.
On one side of a shelf full of books, and close the window school's desk, black student desk,
child loving companion, confidant their bitterness, almost witnessed their triumphs, their hopes
silent depository. There was discrete hand placed Aunt studied my first books, carefully preserved
in the family, from the Catechism of Ripalda and Fleury, to the Grammar
of Iriarte, that stuffed with bad grammar verses, handed me Don Basilio,
the eternal mayor Villaverde, an unforgettable night, the night of
the distribution of prizes.

I opened the books. Although his guards kept in the caricature of the teacher, Don Roman Lopez
the pomposísimo Cicero, as we called him because he never spoke of without the application of
Tusculum pompous epithet, and still legible notes, meanings of unusual voices, used only of this
or that poet, lists of classmates sentenced to be detained two or three hours, have no right
to not know what difficulties Horace.

Happy times! How to vary things! Where are the joys of that time? Where the child rejoicing?
Where were the illusions are pink, the butterflies of childhood? Now everything has changed: there
are no dreams for the soul, the forehead, before dreamer already
has the pallor of the first pain, and tried the bitterness of life,
and I know their accents remain on the lips forever.

In one of the books, to open at random, my eyes stumbled upon a woman's name: Matilde! Thus,
between two exclamation, a cry of joy, as the sweetest expression of hope, as an admission
of affection smothered in the chest, one day we miss irresistible and reveals to the student
mischief, cruel and harsh to the indiscretion of his fellow students,
a woman of that name is in our heart an altar, where it is worshiped
and tributes; where only queen, lady of all pure affection, the owner
of all thoughts, sovereign our agency.

     And I thought a girl looked pale, blond, slender and graceful, with
large violet eyes, a girl whose face became angelic beauty of heaven,
which gracefully adorned with rich blue dress, short skirt, revealing
a very short feet, happened and fled, and was going to get lost in
the shadow cast on the wall the white couch: the object of my sweet
girl's first love, that love first embalmed with the aroma of lilies
the longest life, all existence.

I could not resist and took it to my lips that book, that page, not like that name repeat, but rings
in my ears like heavenly melody, which is engraved in my heart; not
depart from my mind, that for me expresses everything that is sweet
and pure and holy here on earth.

Do not forget or you forget, perhaps because as a child I wrote many times, every hour, everywhere,
in books, in notebooks, on any paper that I had about where in my hands had a pencil or pen. Name on
the sands of the shore, in bark of trees, in the blue vault studded night, traced with the
thought, and on a schedule, from star to star, to see spread throughout
the boundless space, divine radiating canopy.

How I laugh now, when you copy these pages, my romanticism of the time! How I mock love those abductions,
those quixotic bliss! But alas! I do not do with impunity; I wound in the chest, I tear the heart as
if I dragged myself on him a beam spines. And yet, that was madness, a delirium of a madman.
That life is always given to dream and always wave at the playground
of the imagination, fed and nourished with saucers La Martine, was
diverted, perhaps pernicious, but alas! so beautiful that every hour,
is yours seemed to me like the song of a poem whose sublime sublime
delicacy and sets it off of this miserable life on earth and lead
us to live in an ideal world, I look like a symphony numbing, something
like the music of the great masters, as well as Mozart, Beethoven
or Wagner, which removes us from the painful and mundane material
life and makes us happy few hours, killing us all pain, all nuisance.

Fatigue had rendered me, spoiling the care the ill-fated trip had
bruised me from head to foot, and began to feel faint precursor of
sleep.

In the seventeen years always sleep well. Neither domestic nor sadness fortunes faded memories
of us lose sleep. The bed Albe in a corner, watched the love around me, and the rain with steady
noise arrullaría me sweetly. To bed! A breath .... Pfff! Now, as Becquer said:

A sleep and snoring as choristers.

IV

I do not know what time I woke up. Know the place where I was, I turned and went across sleeping
until eight o'clock. They would not, of course, I woke up, so I retaliate desmañanadas of the
College.

- To sleep until you want! - Say the good ladies will be Fed .-- up early in ten years in prison.

The
light filtering through the cracks of the roof and cracks in the window, happy and merry made
me leave the bed.

Rang out the broom sweeper singer intelligent singing birds and hens cackling. A raucous crow launched
from time to time, Sultan his arrogant edge.

I sensed a beautiful day, one of those unforgettable days overlooking
the lively children's souls good humor, one of those days "invites
to shake off the yoke school to go through the fields to lie under
the poplars by the river, it is whispering waves near the rocks covered
Moss, away from the domino irrascible sallow and away from the songs
of Iriarte, discussions Forum Catilin. and terrifying, the most beautiful
day for salting.

I forgot my age, I figured I was seven, persuaded me that, and I said

- What is today, I have breakfast, and left the pomposísimo Don Roman with his odes and his
Eclogues. Back is the avenge! Now .... The hill of Christ, to the pastures of the brush, cut
guavas Sabanillas embroidering on the banks of Stony!

Having said and done, standing. Soon I was ready. Do not attempt to change costumes, and got
the very dusting the night before, I smelled that smell the ways of the central plateau, to
dryness and barren land. When I walked into the dining room - how high! - A piece of six square yards,
Aunt Pepa, very cheerful and talkative, I wanted to sit at the table.

-
By God, Rorra!

Want to give me a fit! It's nine, and here I am, without trying bite, waiting for the knight,
while he sleeps like a marquis. Carmen has not slept all night, thinking
of you, very glad that I saw.

Has your aunt a few things!

He says he soon will bundle the mat, which already came and that,
perhaps, that God expects nothing take it.

That happens every day, always upset you with sadness, always making
us mourn!

But go! all this and who think breakfast .... Lady Jane: here we are!

The Chocolatito! You will take coffee with milk, eh? You guys ya do not like chocolate, say it
is antique. Yo, son, like your grandfather, chocolate and nothing else good chocolate though. Look,
Rorra: a yes I can not get used, chocolate bad. Do you eat something? Say it, boy, that's why
you are at home. Juana: to see what Rodolfo makes you .... Chiquer the child should be! ...

The
good of my aunt would not let me talk. Tongue loose, lively, witty, it was difficult to cut
Once the thread was beginning to speak.

No well ordered lunch, he went

- Do you know who is with us a young girl? Do not you saw last night?

- I think so ....

- Very good! Very good! How a loaf of glory! And
loves you very much .... Looks like you met since you were well. Do
you remember how naughty? Do you remember when you broke the game
your aunt Carmen coffee? I think you see: you went to hide in the
cellar. From there you we take for you to come and eat, and came pale
and tearful. You say! For a few pots whatever .... They were from
China, and very nice, but what mattered. Still remember them your
aunt! Why do you blush? Go, son! Are you still afraid that you punish
your godmother?

Indeed, the memory of that prank I pulled the face
colors. It was a beautiful coffee service, legitimate source chinoiserie,
which my grandfather bought in Pacific port, aboard an English ship
returning from the Celestial Empire. It was the charm of the house.
One day, playing ball, chas! was shattered.

- Well, as I was I saying,
- said my aunt, - is very good girl ... and he loves you much. The
last shirts we sent the she did, and how carefully!

- Tell me, Aunt,
who is this girl?

- I will tell you! - And interrupted, shouted:

-
Angelina! Angelina! Come here!

He continued, addressing me:

- It
is with Carmen. If you saw: it is very good at all, very industrious,
or, as you say, Mrs. Juana, very woman! It is the joy of the house.
It seems a little bird is singing all the time. We have a love, a
love ... that .... If you say you look like family! I care Carmen!
It is very lively, very wise, and writes that it is one, loved it!
You know the lyrics, she write when I'm with migraine. The poor thing
was very unfortunate. God give you a good husband! ...

- Well ...
ask him to San Antonio.

- He deserves it, son, you deserve it.

-
I have a boyfriend, I suppose, Aunt Pepa? Or at least, his infatuation
....

- What