 I will give a gun to go armed. Do you understand that weapon? No? Well I'll show you.
Now, about your aunts ... I take care of everything! Then you will come to you. For now, let
me alone, leave me alone! And do not ever think of such gossip. Go to the hacienda, you'll see.
After Mr. Fernandez will have you wanting to know much, much, because you deserve it. I pity
you, pity you're going to serve someone else's house! I always I asked God to rid of it ...
but, you see, there is no remedy! The provides otherwise.

And this I say pushing me out, and opening the door.

- Go, it's too late .... I have to get up early .... While you're snoring ... I have to work
in the little shop.

I said goodbye to the good old man, and took up the street to the
cemetery of San Antonio.

I went the steps, and leaning on the gate I started to contemplate
the city.

The night was dark; black clouds hid the horizon.

As soon as they discovered the peaks of the Sierra, drawing on a clear sky, which sparkled with
pale gleams a few stars.

My thoughts flew in search of my Angelina.

XLIV

I got up very early, and I spent the first hours in the garden. In roses, too beautiful with its
new foliage, buds not yet bloomed, but in the box "Do not forget me" Angelina seed, opened the
first flowers.

Had won the love of the poor orphan. My plants, languid and sad, do not flourish in many months,
until late April or early May. The soon be my girl adorned with all the beauties of spring.

I
was suddenly seized with deep sadness. I watched the cerulean flowers, Fresh, lush, dotted
with dew, and I thought the ephemeral nature of man's hopes. Perhaps the love that subdued
my soul, that ineffable feeling my spirit ennobled and directed my thoughts to nobler purposes,
it would be fleeting as the life of While the flowers were not torn from the stem bend pale
and withered. Would true that Angelina Love was destined to live forever! Is it true what I said
the girl, who soon forget? ... Not that I loved her with all my heart, with all the energy of my
soul.

     But alas! and I loved Matilda, and although he had not died
     in my memory and still alive in me the memory of sweet, it was not,
alas! for the poor lad, who had sworn eternal love, the angel of charity
that followed him everywhere, that lady of your spirit was light in
all darkness, the sound source in solitude, iris advertising bonanza,
through the cloud, the storm moves away, the storm has ceased.

No, Angelina lived for me, I lived for it, the misery and love had united our souls, soul mates,
born one for another, created to form a single:

"Two souls with
one thought and the throbbing chord heart.

Sitting at the foot of one orange, silent witness of our love, Angelina I was thinking when knock
at the door.

I sensed that someone brought me news of my beloved and I went hurriedly. Had not deceived me heart.
It was the groom's P. Herrera.

- ...-- Here you have told me, without getting off the horse - this box and the letters. Again answer
tomorrow. Letters of Angelina! One for my aunts, one for me.

I ran to my room and shut the door. Wanted to be alone, alone ....

"You understand - I said the girl - how pleasant was your letter to me. What anxiety! What anticipation!
All night I was thinking of your boy, until at last I fell asleep. I dreamed you! I dreamed I
was in Villaverde, at home and around you. You were reading and I was painting rose petals. Suddenly
closed the book, put on the table, and you came step by step to me, to rest at the back of
the chair .... So ... (Like that night remember?) I said quietly: "Angelina .... Angelina ...
I love you! "And I woke up. I woke up crying and distressed, as if I no longer wanted, as if
they were to see you again. But I really do not forget; true that all the time think of me? Is not
it true that I am forever in your memory? Week Last we left to go. The evening was very pretty ....
What heaven! What clouds! What celajes! What colors of the horizon so beautiful at sunset! Dad
said, "Doll: Do you want come with me? "I said yes.

We went to the top of the hill, and there on a blanket, we stopped. Dad opened his breviary and
began to pray Matins. I went along a cornfield. Grow some plants between rows giving flowers
as daisies, and I I cut many, many, many that I no longer fit into the apron, then sat on a rock
and, remembering a poem you read me, entertained me to ask if I wanted flowers. Defoliation all,
and all told me, with the last petal, you want me ... "Much !»... 'Much! " I have no moments
of sadness, not anymore. I am very happy and secure in your affection. Forgive me; forgive
me if I ever doubted your perseverance and your loyalty.

"But all of this have not told you how I got your letter. I could not go to the ranch Ocotes
to find the waiter and I settled to wait in the corridor. I was hoping that Dad, do not was
present, but it was. What fear, Rorro! Is scary. The waiter arrives, and Dad leaving. He received
the package, opened it, took his card and gave me my own, without a word. Then asked me nothing.
I rushed to read the letter from Dona Pepita. How long will I made the evening! At last I was alone
in my room, and then read and reread and reread your little note. Why are you so lazy you Linilla?
Six plieguitos! Is not it true that now is more? If not, I will punish you. And you'll see: a blade
... y. .. Be much!

"I love you with all your soul, Rodolfo mine, but I do not live for you, and it really hurts
me say those things so sad. Why talk about death when we are so happy? You say that death should
be required in times of happiness, and then only in the hours pain. Where did you learn that?
Tell me where? You have some very strange things. In you not I know how very dark, some sadness and
some disappointment that I like, that make me suffer, I do mourn. It seems as if you have little
love for life. Well, hear me: I do not think well, no. God forbid it! Life, is bitter it is
very beautiful and kind, if you have pain and suffering, is also happiness and joy, many, and I
want to live, live for you my Rorra; to be happy if you're lucky,
to love what you love and hate you loathe; to suffer if you have it,
that my joy that cifro more.

Is not it true that you do not hate anyone? No, I'm sure. Rodolfo mine: it must change so
to think, that you stray from these ideas so rare and so black, and
you love the life that love as I love her like a godsend.

You say that life is nothing but pain? Not true. When you say you love me, when you remember that
you are loved, you are happy, then you love life. Do not you feel happy when you do something
good, when to help a needy, when wipe a tear or give a word of comfort? Well I do, and you too,
you too, because are good. That's why I love you I love you so.

"The last part of your little letter made me very happy to you. So you want, so I dreamed, and
must be provided with your Linilla.

"I have here in the heart is one thing that saddens me, and I tell
you, but I need time to writing.

     Paul has to leave at three, are the 0:30, I have not seen if the
table is list, and you know that my dad eats one o'clock, the clock
sounds, and not just give it When you already have in the room, clapping
and calling for the soup.

"Paul will give you a box, it is a handkerchief embroidered with the
monogram I the moments unemployed.

Dad says that is very nice, I liked it, and I think you look like you same.

"Take good care of your aunts, mainly from Dona Carmelita, look how
much he likes pampered.

Do you see well, which is so dry and austere? For without love can not live.

"I live for you y. .. just for you, your

Linilla. "

XLV

Was writing until after midnight. At that time I went outside and cut branches most beautiful
"myosotis" to put them in my letter and they came at the hands of Angelina.

"There are - I wrote - those flowers of heaven, so beloved of my Linilla. They are the first that
sprang up in the box that you sow. It is very pretty, seems sapphire sparks rained. I loved
watching him and thinking of you.

"Linilla mine: I've won the bet. Your plants have bloomed before my own, but that's not because
you love me as much as I love you. Mine do not give hope, but flourish, and made more beautiful
than yours, which is proof that I love you all my life.

"I had a great disappointment in recent days, a quarrel that has caused me great pain. Well view
the thing was not so, and perhaps very bitter I spent days without there being reason for it.
The day we meet I will tell you everything. Why waste time in relating things unpleasant? Do not
get to ponder on this. Villaverdinos gossip ... and nothing else!

"I must tell you that three days ago I left the house of Don Juan. The doctor has gotten me a
job very well, in the hacienda of Santa Clara, which, as you know,
is Mr. Fernandez, Gabrielita's dad, your partner conference.

I was in the house of that gentleman a very nice person, I received with great courtesy, as
a friend, not as an employee, we arrange in a two by three, and on 15 I leave for the ranch.
I am sorry to part of my aunts, but my daughter, there is no choice, what to do! I do not
understand the field, but I will learn; hardest things I've learned. It saddens me to think that I
live far from you, and that I have not long to see you, for I will be going to San Sebastian
and I offered to your dad. Sorry, sorry, but as you will understand, I must not lose placement Don Crisanto
the poor have sought me. With what I earn in Santa Clara will be necessary in this house for
Aunt Pepilla not have to work in their flowers, or with the small fry. Thank God! I will provide
for all household expenses, and perhaps this destination will be for Your Rorra the beginning of
a laborious life, yes, very laborious, but well paid. And you I say things I do not understand
the field, and I do not know about that one iota. Learn all, though, I understand, my occupation
is on the desktop. Try to be useful and even necessary.

I'll have Mr. Fernandez considers my efforts and my hard work, and if my dreams do not spoil,
this job is the most appropriate means to achieve happiness, ie to
enable I unite my fate to yours.

No desire, I desire nothing else, and it encrypts all my happiness.

"Why dost reproach me my sadness and melancholy?

Think I've been very unhappy, and suffer from Murray and aggravation. You're right: life is
friendly, lovable, despite that pain is inherent in human nature, haunts us everywhere and at
all hours. You're right: When a man loves and is loved life is nice. We abhor evil; if begrudge
doing good, relieving the pain of others, to comfort the sad and
help the needy, not think that life is hard and it would be better
not to.

Forgive Linilla me, forgive me! It is true that my character is a bit gloomy and taciturn, I know
I can not help it. What do you want! So I am, so I have become in recent years, and although
your love and affection my life happy, but you are to my soul faint light and joy at times it
darkens my soul and I am happy to feed my pain, sinking voluntarily in sadness. Be my redeemer,
dispels this darkness that often cloud my soul, and placid dawn turns into night of my spirit.

"You're
right: life is nice, I love life as a gift from heaven, I love to do good, y. .. To love you
much, much, like you deserve to be loved!

"Are you telling me that the corn daisies have told you I love you?

They have not deceived as the heroine of the poem. Yes, I love you I love you, Linilla mine! I do
not consult it with flowers often be misleading and flattering, but my heart is all yours.

"Imagine a man who had lived many years in the obscurity of a dungeon, and suddenly, when I
had lost all hope of freedom, from exposing him.

I would love clarity of the sky, celajes lamps, limpid and serene horizons! As well you I love and
no more, no less.

     "Be fair.

Is not it true that this man remembered with pleasure, perhaps with
incomparable joy the shadows of the dungeon where she lived so many
years?

Is not it true that sometimes sigh lovingly recalling his imprisonment, the narrow space that
was for him home, country and world?

Then come back to me and the sadness and melancholy of yesterday, she still did not love me when
In light of your love not lit my soul.

At times I do not think I can not believe you love me I love you,
and I'm happy.

So you explain what you call "very rare things about me." So you explain this gloomy sadness, the
sorrow you have shown in me and that makes you suffer. Beg your pardon, Linilla mine. Forgive me,
I will not think about it, and if I think those things do not I will say. Is not it true that you forgive
me? Is not that right?

"The scarf is very pretty, the monogram is superb, very elegant, very simple, as drawn and embroidery
for you. Say hi to your dad, if you think appropriate to do so, so do not suspect our loves.
Did not approve, and is the reason I remember my disgust for you and for him.

Let me know that you grieve, Linilla, Linilla me, tell me you have secrets from me? Tell me, let
me know. I can imagine what it is: a childish ....

    Do not say now that I write as you wish. The day you do not write
     me as you know it, I, for my part, I have to punish, and poor you!

"Goodbye,
     my darling!
     

Rodolfo. "

XLVI

I rarely left home, and only to visit Don Roman. I spent the morning in my room and afternoon
in the garden, devoted to my favorite poets.

- What book are you reading now? - Used to ask the "pomposísimo" when
going to see .-- Lamartine?

"Victor Hugo? "Novels of Dumas?

I answered affirmatively, and the good old man made a gesture, growled, and added mohino:

- Ugh! No, child, do not waste your time. Classic! The great authors of the Augustan age! Virgilio
... Virgilio sweet! Horacio .... And if you're very sure your Latin, the classics Spanish ....
Fray Luis de Leon, Herrera .... Let the romance, they are intemperate and monstrous .... What
did Victor Hugo that is not overtaken by the Latin poets? How have outbid he and your Zorrilla, your great
Zorrilla, Lope and Calderon?

Come on, boy, will you have good taste? Well, stop the hand such daubs. If you, whom I was initiated
into the great beauties classical literature, such developments like you, what will the disciples
of Venegas and Ocaña? That's everything! So go the lyrics to patriotic! ... So there is no
Carpios and Heavy!

But I did not listen to the advice of Don Roman, and review the most
eloquent pages of Chateaubriand, sweetest verses of Lamartine, and
I memorized the best scenes of "Hernani" a collection of plays, translated
by I know not whom.

I still remember some of the famous drama romantic, that of Dona Sol Carlos V:

- "Be still, I ashamed ...!

Don Carlos, between the two all affair is madness .... My father, his pure blood shed in the
war for you, and I am listening to angry, I am, despite the furor so crazy for your wife, just
for your lady, very much. "

He disregarded the classics, and engulfed me in the deep vault of romantic literature. Andrew bought
a day in his shop of "legality", a third of old papers, including which I found brochures, books,
brochures, supplies, and volumes of "The Cross, I hurried to collect. Then I read much of "The
Devil's Pistol ', I devoured the novels of Florencio del Castillo,
and in two days I began by collecting the two volumes of "The Thirty
Years War ' Fernando Orozco, the most deliberate of our novelists.

What caused me such a painful impression that book! Filled me with
sadness, and hurt me cruelly heart.

I could not help: I ??pulled the volume, grabbed my hat, and rushed into the street.

Beautiful spring afternoon, golden light .... I went up the hill, and walked up to my site
choice.

The cloudless sky and celajes like a cerulean glass dome. Groves, fresh and greening, flaunted
his new robe, and in the meadows and the hills floated a mysterious pink light. Middle Valley
have enjoyed the past glories of the day and there behind the church
of San Juan, behind the mill, half hidden among banana and "Izotes"
in the curve of Stony wide and open, the last rays sun traced a trail
of silver, which assumed a splendid focus, whose powerful radiation
hurt my eyes.

The city was wrapped in gauze and gold, and the East loomed tops
of the mountains, the peak of Otates, and the crests of Mata Thick
on a green background of soft opal. West side of pretending the clouds
burning mountains, an abyss of flame, which hid the sun. In Villaverde,
as in Pluviosilla, such notice sunsets are sure fire hot day, announces
the 'south', the scorching wind that heats the atmosphere and calcined
earth.

They came to me the voices of passers crossing the Alameda,
or went along edging wagon road width of ash.

The pleasant evening
breeze caressed my face with his perfumed kisses.

Still glowing in
the Sierra the last rays of day, and as they climbed the valley thousand
rumors of the sleepy nature, the voices of the river and birds singing,
I started admire the magnificent picture before him.

The shadows
gradually overran the city. Down from the mountains, emerging from
the cliffs; out of the woods, ran across the plains, and rushed in
droves for "dead." Timid and cautious stopped there, just a moment,
then hurried toward advancing the square. Shone on the river the last
burst of light air the green light turned on a vague reflection of
violet, ennegrecióse the valley, and it was evening.

- "So - I thought,
- so will the happy illusions, and the most smiling fade hope: Life
is a perpetual pain. The past is sad to remember the good lost, in
this we find the joy, the future fills us with horror ... "

"Is it
true that pain is the sad heritage of humanity miserable? Is it true
that is not possible to carry out our noblest desires? Congratulations
Malógrense plans the evil; disípense like fog wicked projects, but
why must be useless and pointless all the generous thought, every
unselfish aspirations youth? Is it true that evil lurks everywhere?
Is it true that vice is transformed to white suit of virtue, and the
most beautiful flower is worm food? If it is a real misery to live
on earth, it is better to die when we have not tested yet the bitterness
of life? "

"I think I gave it to my fate. I found myself alone in
the world, no parents, no relatives, no friends. Who loved me