 

Dudasen angry that if I had a soul, a reasoning of the band, more daring than others, the participant
observed a finlets adapted to a quarter of a circle, measured with two triangles, and the third
told him so:? With what you believe, sir knight, that because you have two thousand yards from
head to toe, you are some ...? gone a thousand yards! exclaimed the dwarf, it is not wrong or
an inch. iCon I measured the atom! icon that is geometry, and he knows my size and I that I
can not see without the aid of a microscope, not even yours! Yes, that I have measured he said
the physical, and also measure your giant companion. Admitiose the proposal, and Acosto His
Excellency on the ground, because they stood their head was higher than the clouds, and our
philosophers they planted a tree in a very large site or Torres Quevedo been appointed by name, but
I do not dare to lie on the great respect that I have the ladies, and then by a series of triangles,
connected to each other, guessing that the person was a mancebito mediate hundred and twenty
thousand feet of a king.

Micromegas then burst out in these reasons: I see that you never have to judge things its apparent magnitude.
O God, who gave intelligence to some substances such despicable seem infinitely small costs no
more to your omnipotence that the infinitely large; and if it is possible that other creatures smaller
than them, perhaps will have a higher intelligence that of those huge animals I've seen in
the sky, and with one foot would cover the entire globe where I am
now.

Answered one of the philosophers who could not believe it, but you have any doubt, he had loved much
more intelligent boys than men, and told him not fables that we have forsaken Virgilio on bees,
but what Swammerdam discovered, and what has dissected Reaumur. Instructed him then there are
animals that are about bees, which are the bees with respect man, and what was the Syrian
same with respect to those so stout of animals speaking, and what are these big animals compared
with other substances to the quale seem imperceptible atoms.

Gradually the conversation was becoming interesting, Micromegas and
said so.

CHAPTER VII.

Conversations with men.
O atoms intelligent, in whom it pleased the eternal Being in showing
their art and power no doubt that your globe PLEASURE purest happy,
as having so little substance and looking all spirit, you ought to
use your life in love and think that is true life of the spirits.
In part I have seen no real happiness, but I am sure this is his mansion.