 Although considered more intelligent than his brother, and serve long years
of public administration in various provinces of Spain, and had read the César Cantú Universal
History of Spain and Lafuente, without missing a volume, and possessed the same fortune, retirement
more than 2,500 pesetas a year, it is certain that D. John, without Peñascosa never left or
have read in the newspaper life to which he subscribed, enjoyed far greater prestige in the village.
This, by way of D. Peregrin, but not appropriate for height. Indeed, D. Juan Casanova was tall,
dry, aquiline face, large eyes drooping eyelids and look imposing, venerable bald, short white
whiskers and a measured and stately march. These extraordinary gifts, together talk to a measured
and prudent, had captured the respect and even the veneration of neighbors. So great was the
astonishment of their time to the arrival of D. Peregrin de Andalucía, where he had been employed
recently heard him call ignorant and fool his brother in a discussion with him at the casino was about
the tobacco revenue. They lived together, both single and delivered to the care of Ms Mariquita
despotic, housekeeper and sole owner of their lives and property.

D. Juan, by dint of walking her stern look and majestic on the sea
of ??heads that stretched from the fence to the gate of the temple,
met with the shiny bald head of the pygmy brother.

Seeing the anguish painted on his face, he hastened to signal nobly to advance, giving the bank
site occupied. But D. Peregrin, perchance noting the impossibility of taking a step, or flushed
with anger, which had been increasing little by little, he replied with a grimace of anger
and contempt that overtook his unfortunate brother completely took away the desire to insist.

-
What is that? - Asked D. Martín de las Casas, who was sitting next to him .-- Do not you want D.
come Peregrin?

- Is that it is impossible. Who breaks the wall of flesh?

- For anyone.

You see how I go there and bring it at once - said D. Martin, Male vigorous and expeditious nature,
ready to rise.

D. John is retained by the sleeve of his coat.

- No, let you ... Did not want to come ... You know his character.

-
For man is not like dish could you be there sweating latte! - Answered
sharply, while raising the shoulders.

The church is among the most spacious villa can be rendered. Truth
Peñascosa with have seven to eight thousand souls, no church has more
than this. Perhaps to be too spacious, the sexton and his assistants
do not want to take care of cleaning often