 

Travóse battle in place of equality for all, with large and multiple voices, fighting bravely, it hung
life and freedom from both sides of the victory of that day. If ours becomes impractical due
to be on earth, and have so far retreat, his death was true, or what is deemed to be worse captives
being held by those Barbarians offended. The Turks had also just as much danger, because the natives
of those provinces Christian to where they were, seeing them broken up, they ran no doubt satisfying
them a just revenge. In the opener, by the multitude and infinite number of Barbarians ran great
risk, and the victory was doubtful, but gained new courage and vigor, because the Captains repeated
a second time the name of Aragon, and since then seems that this voice instilled fear in enemies,
and in our effort ever seen. And as for both sides had been reached under the blows of cutlasses
and swords, in which had much of an advantage for our defensive weapons, then began to tip the
winning on our part. The Catalans ran in anger due rigor and used in wars against the infidels,
that that day in the Turks all was despair, offering to death with such determination and gallantry,
which was not known in any of these samples of wanting to pay, or because it was resolved to
die as people of value, or because they despaired to find in the winners mercy. While his arms were
always able to hurt debian so, and when fainted, her face and eyes showed that the body was the
loser, not profit. Ours have made them happy not abandon the field, we continued with the same rigor
that fought in battle. Night and got tired of killing In order to reach. Were up in the morning
with weapons in hand. Sunrise, found the greatness of the victory, great silences in all those
campaigns and stained the earth in blood everywhere piles of dead men and horses, which says
Montaner, who arrived to number six thousand horsemen, and twelve thousand foot, and that day
were so many mentioned facts in arms, could barely see over, and this does not refer expensive one
in particular, to the great injury and detriment of our times, for such feats deserve perpetual
memory.

It was with such brio our people after this victory, and so lost to the greatest fear difficulties
voices calling on them to go into the mountains and come into the Armenia, because they wanted
to get the last end of the Roman Empire, and recover in a short time
which in many Emperors lost their centuries, but the Captains tuned
this determination so bold, measured, as was right, his forces with
the difficulty of the enterprise.

CHAPTER XVIII.

With the coming of winter to the back of our Maritime Provinces.

Rebelanse the Magnesia, Roger Ponele site, but Andronico's call him
up, and reaches to the mouth Strait to the whole army.

They stopped eight days in the place of victory, and few to catch
the prey.

Continued their way to a place called Gate iron Montaner, term, and stripe Natoli and Armenia. He stopped
three days Roger doubtful the road would take, but finally seeing about Fall, and being so
in the provinces which had not been properly secured to her devotion, was resolved with the
advice of his captains, to return to the City of Ania, and spend the winter there, until it
was time to take the field, because that year had broken four times the enemy, and recovered
many provinces. Nicephore says that by missing the spies and practical people on earth left to
move forward, because without it were something very dangerous, and Captain Roger was so clever,
not reckless adventures. Ricks the days are very short, because it seemed that the withdrawal
was because of some fear, walking for places that had already recognized the ADI. In this recall
carry the Historians Greeks to ours of insolent and cruel, they did more damage in the Cities
of Asia The Turkish enemies of Christianity, and though I think there were some injuries, but
not as much as they expensive. Because time than ours were in Asia, was very little, and he always
engaged him to overcome and achieve signal victories of his enemies, where they found infinite
gain of the dams that made that were so, that some Sometimes the left, or they can not be carried
by, or by estimating them in a little, but I am for real what the Greeks say, but not so they
can remove the glory of his victories. What Army has seen give an example of moderation and temperance,
and more that he gets very their pay later? There is no doubt that a bad friend disciplined army,
is so harmful in a Province as the enemy, and so the Greeks the most entertaining stories in
the complaints this damage, strongly encouraging more than a historian should.

Came the army retreated to Magnesia, where Roger had most of their wealth and treasure, when they
got notice of Magnesia, as Ataliote his captain had rebelled; and
slaughtered the garrison of the Catalans that Roger had left, and
their treasures alzádose that had collected within the City.

The case went this way.

Magnesia was a strong and big city, and between both hard to win if the spirits of the natives
were united.

Roger came to pass that went badly advised them to ask, that when he came back they had to point
him money to help horses and people. Using them abhorrence of the Alans, who were inside, they
had to the Catalans, and moved by greed to become owners of the treasures that Roger had collected,
resolved to take arms and rebel. Ataliote statement his counsel, and approved by him, it seemed
put into execution, because as soon as the city lived free, feared to come in subjection. Citizens
were many armed, Alan also, and barns with plenty of Wheat, guns, money and other military
equipment and finally getting between faith and oath avail themselves of one another, the sword
became part of the Catalans who were in part seized, and put them in prisons very safe. This
is confirmed in their rebellion; because there is nothing to further ensure such an event, when
the atrocity off hope forgiveness. This fact does not seem to regard it Pachymeres Greek worthy
of reproach, before it approves and praises, that clearly must have more than history apology
yours.

Known rebellion of Magnesia by Roger, then wanted to punish her, and so with part of the Alans
who followed him, the Romeos, and all the Catalans went to lay siege
to the city ??to punish, as deserved as ugly evil.

He brought with remarkable diligence machines and tricks to beat it, and to a few days gave
a general assault, which went unchallenged the our with great scorn and derision of the enclosures,
and to Roger with insulting words you insult. Roger wanted to break their lines, but they were
warned that prevented output the effect. The siege was continued, and at the same time they
came a dispatch from Andronico in which he charged them, that site dajado Magnesia, Miguel came to join
her son, to aid the Prince of Bulgaria brother Roger, because his uncle had raised it with the state,
and was about to be lost if not quickly had recourse to relief. I have very certain, that
this uprising was faked by Andronico, to give any reason seeming to take ours in Asia, who
always feared that many accredited victories would rise with it, refusing obedience and to force
more to Roger, put before the danger of his brother. A living subject such damages Captain
who serves Princes tyrants or small, in whom the suspicion and distrust always have first place
in their councils. Blessed is he who obeys and serves large and powerful monarch, whose greatness
can not fit born offense increased its vassal. To get by some of these movements, it makes me
very difficult to see that is not Nicephore of them, rather than because it gives ours did
not go ahead with their victories, which was the big fear of Andronico, and no doubt this was the
one who stopped the good fortune of our own, and not preventing restore all the ancient cities
and provinces of the Roman Empire. These are Nicephore own words: "Roger, after having gathered
in council, decided to replicate the Emperor, and see if he could win both to Magnesia, but
resistance from within so was that Roger had to withdraw with a loss of reputation and people,
and although he to try to live with them, just that he return the money, he could not reach.
For this reason and because the Alans were fired, Roger tried to get off the site, assuming apology
to the emperor sent him, but many were not without a hidden feeling out of those provinces without
punishing the Magneositas, and leave what they had gained and rigor to the fury of the Barbarians,
who then had to fill seeing them defenseless. No among ordinary soldiers missing some secret
talks with the mood altering for new moves, saying, What mattered to us having beaten many
times, if we takes the prize hands? Is this why we left our land and country gift; to have
the reward of the risk of life so often pay a little risky? "After a Province won us out of it,
and reward us for so many services a dangerous new war? Captains and other people of polish
though disguised, and on the outside were undeceived, they felt bad about this game, and most
had believed born Andronico's misgivings, that the movements of Bulgaria. Came our Ania to the
city, and from there took the road to the mouth of the Strait for all those Maritime provinces,
always sailing navy in the step they marched by land. With this order reached the Cape that is
in the strait, opposite Gallipoli, which calls Montaner Aner mouth. They informed the Emperor
there as they were about to board, waiting New orders to crack. Andronico was thrilled that
he had obeyed the Catalans, letters and praised by their punctuality in fulfilling their orders,
they were told by the movements Bulgaria with only the fame that came the army of the Catalans
were quieted. " This Montaner's what it says, But Pachymeres seems more truly concerned that
the occasion was Andronico in this second release to say that everything was quiet, because Miguel
Paeologo his son to persuasion of the Greeks offended, and soldiers from other nations who had
in his service, and lower in number and value to the Catalans feared he wrote to his Andronico
father who did not want Roger to join his army, fearing civil war, and the insolence of the
Catalans would not suffer if the same freedom that Asia were to come and live, and Gregory Alan was
head of the offended him by the death of his son, and when she saw Roger and his men, would occasion
of some great break. This Andronico thought it would be wise to seek some means for this to
be composed; and control and his sister Irene, and his niece Mary, who were then to Gallipoli,
and to try with Roger, who dajando most of his army in Asia, with only a thousand men chosen pass
to join Michael. Roger looked at his case with most leading captains, and to Everyone seemed
dangerous thing to divide his forces, and suspected then that this was not beginning of a great
betrayal, and so Roger said to his mother, he was not enough to persuade a spirit to the Catalans,
who were divided, from thousand of them to Greece, and that the others were in Asia. The mother
returned to the Emperor, and gave reason for what had happened to his son. This ended the war
in Asia in just over two years short of time as mentioned facts, enough to illustrate a century.

CHAPTER XIX.

Staying the army in the Chersonese Thracia, and Roger part to Constantinople.

The army embarked on the galleys and ships of its navy, and following the order which had Emperor
Andronicus, crossed the strait, and landed. All the people in Thracia Chersonese, taking as main
square and head of their seats to Gallipoli City in the time taken by the most important part of
the Province, set almost at the mouth of the Strait looking north. Estiéndese the Thracian Chersonese
isthmus or seventy miles in length, and six in width, and at least
three parts.

On the East sea bathed Strait, named after the ancient Hellespont,
which divides Europe from Asia.

Cinel the Aegean Sea and the sunset and noon, and the Sea Propontis
Setentrion called in our times of Marmora.

It was in the past this abode of the Cruseos isthmus, and there the party continues with the
Mainland Lisimachia, famous for its founder Lysimachus who gave the name, and sixth, known for
the love of two unfortunate lovers. But at the time of the Catalans and Aragonese came to this province
just seemed the ruins; only in the former had a castle called Lisimachia Ejamille, and many villages
and to small towns where they stayed while our passing the rigors of winter taking, as I have
said, at Gallipoli, Mid City population, by main strength and imprisonment for the common defense.
Saved himself the same order in accommodations than the year before was held in Cape Artacio,
apparently leaving everyone satisfied and tranquil, it was Roger four galleys to Constantinople,
with infantry part of the choicest to be seen Emperor Andronicus, and to congratulate him
for the restoration of many provinces Asia, and receive grants and honors together due to so
many victories. Came to the city including with the General ours, and universal admiration
of all received and accompanied them to the Palace, where Emperor demonstrations ever used words
and honored him, and Roger after giving relationship entire state of the provinces released,
asked for money for general pagamento. Repondió the Emperor with great performance, saying that
it was very Debed not delay to pay its value so well earned, and he was the wage would send
later. But although this response was on the outside which Roger could want, Emperor remained
very surly this lawsuit, because after such large prey, and spoil Provinces delicious conquered,
then ask a small allowance, was a sign of insatiable greed, and hardly any power could satisfy
the Greek Empire. What reaches the soldier on the prize of victory serves more to taste than
to the need and so much largesse is distributed in games, comrades, and at banquets, but the
pay estimates always something that is given in the price of his work, and his blood, and comes with
it to your needs, and feels much it is denied, or dilate, especially when the Prince spent with
great length in a vain ostentation of his Majesty, and is failing to this obligation, in which it
is founded and supported the true greatness of the Kings.

CHAPTER XX.

Berenguer de Entenza with new relief comes to Constantinople, where he was given the post of
Grand Duke, and Roger offered to Caesar's.

Roger was in the city several days release asking the Emperor and the ministers of his estate
who maliciously concealed the money, and they placed difficulties and hindrances in ways and
means which were given for collection: art of always used that handle Princes ranch. Although this
arrest attended by the Emperor.

In this way arrived at Gallipoli Berenguer de Entenza, a man known
for their blood and courage, called with a great body of the Emperor
Andronicus, although he had already offered Berenguer you come to
serve the second time he sent an embassy particular, offering him
mercedes very advantaged.

Berenguer requested Mecina left of this second appeal, and came to Greece with some galleys,
and five armed vessels, and in them a thousand Almugavares, and three
hundred horsemen, all people very lucid.

He stopped ten days at Gallipoli, where he was received with remarkable taste of the whole nation,
to know what Roger ordered, whom he sent two horses to give him notice of its arrival.