 In Bogot치
steam we met people from very different. The captain was a brave Genoese, Republican, free, simple
and cordial, and passengers were not only Grenadines few, but British, French and German. The heat
was soon established, as always happens in every trip, and an Irishman of 62 years, as big as
a tower, happy as a boy, first-class drinker, as has been his duty to honor their nationality, and
mocking the Irish and frisky all (except those who are serious), a disorder brought on deck delicious.
Sang, danced solo, played violin and drums (I understand the tools are not bound by a close fraternity),
and finally to communicate all the good humor. A few moments later the jungle nearby repeated chorus
of fire singing all passengers (each tone of the podium) and the Marseillaise, the anthem sublime
war and freedom, and God Save English Queen's, and songs more or less popular in New Granada, Germany
and Ireland. An hour after the edges of civilization, and when all repos치bamos in our hammocks
in the midst of shadows and silence, a hymn completely different, wild and melancholy, full of mystery,
grandeur and harsh poetry, a sudden burst, sustained voices fifty gruff and powerful rhythmic,
in the midst of mature woodland to the beach nearby. Case, the tone, style and mystery of the song
came to contrast nicely with the hot tracks just before sunrise side of Bogot치 steam. Although
the show I was unknown, we could not resist the temptation to watch
closely.

So I jumped out of my hammock, I invited two friends and I went ashore with the direction we
indicated the song itself, and a red light shining through the heavy
shadows of the forest. The beach was deserted and no one slept on
the roofs of fashionable barges moored to an anchor of iron and thick
trunks.

After walking for a distance of several hundred meters through the middle of the woods, find
an extremely interesting show. Under the canopy of a giant cedar in a clean and sand, there was
a fire fed with thick trunks, branches of conifers and large pieces
of amber, a junior, which is very abundant in these forests endless.

Flare was gorgeous, deliciously fragrant, and the trees cast shadows Hadan play with light in
an admirable manner. Around the campfire, they knelt in confusion
about fifty people - men and women, old and young, locals and bream
- all at once with a hoarse voice and rhythmic, but extremely expressive
accent, sang a funeral hymn!

... Novena was a neighbor who had died three days earlier and whose body was buried a short
distance. The piece was a set of prayers in verse and extravagant created and used by sailors always
around novena, and choir, so incomprehensible in language as vigorous in his intonation, was
composed of a type of quatrain verses six syllables . Three men first sang a verse, all responded with
the refrain, and then played another three women, and so on.

I confess that in this wild scene, but full of charm of faith and devotion, I found more and more
religious poetry in the songs of Bogot치 steam. Tone was deep and dark, solemn, in spite of its
rustic harmony, and I was in this scene a great impression and teaching.

Poetry is undoubtedly the most sublime manifestations of the soul in its relations with God, man
and nature.
