 Outside will not let betrayed
the slightest hint about his life and background. The most heartless had a face Rafael, with
a profusion of yellow hair: Arturo, the player, had the melancholy air and Hamlet's intellectual
self-absorption: the serene and courageous man just stood five feet tall, with a high-pitched
voice and effeminate and timid ways. The term rogue applied to them was a distinction rather
than a definition. Individually, maybe missing a lot of minor details such as fingers and toes, ears,
etc., but these slight omissions did not detract from their collective strength. The most skilled
among them, had only three fingers on his right hand was the most accurate shooter eyed solemnity.

Such
was the physical appearance of men scattered around the cabin.

Camp was Country Rodrigo a triangular valley between two mountains and a river, and was their only
way a steep path that climbed to the top of a hill in front of the cabin, so enlightened path
by Diana's silver rays.

The patient could have seen it from the rude bed where he lay. Could see wind as a silver ribbon,
and expired at the top confused with clouds. A fire of branches decayed pine encouraged sociability
in the meeting. Slowly reappeared joy Rodrigo Field natural. Cambiáronse discretion bets on
the outcome: Three against Sal would come out with five good thing, in addition, also the child
would live apostose and passed through separate bets on the sex and complexion of the future
host. In the thick of lively controversy, was heard a cry of those who were closest to the door
and everyone's ears pricked up. Mastering the sound of air among the pines waving the murmur of
the swift current of the river and the crackling of the fire, was heard a sharp cry wailing,
a cry that people were not seasoned Field Camp Rodrigo. The leaves stopped moaning, the river
ceased his humming and crackling fire, seemed as if Nature had suspended their beats.

The camp rose as one man.

I do not know who proposed to blow up a barrel of gunpowder, but most sound advice prevailed,
and only remembered firing revolvers in some consideration the state of the mother, which
is due to the rough surgery camp is for any other reason, he ended by now. Not an hour passed
without, as rising for that rugged road that led to the stars come out for good Country Rodrigo, leaving
their shame and sin. I do not think anyone cared such notice unless the fate of the newborn.

- But can he live now? - Asked everyone to Edmund.

His answer was doubtful. The only person's sex Genoveva Sal left in the camp in terms of motherhood,
was an ass. Suscitose brief discussion regarding the qualities of such a nurse, but was put to the
test, less problematic than the old treatment Romulus and Remus,
and apparently so successful.

Having all these gadgets, spent yet another hour. Finally, the door opened and the anxious
crowd of men, who had formed in line, marched orderly the interior of the funeral hut. Immediate
low table bed, on which drew fantastically shaped the mother's body wrapped in a blanket,
had a rough square table. Above this was a box of candles, and inside, wrapped in a flannel
bright red, lay Country newcomer Rodrigo.

Right next to the makeshift crib, had placed a hat soon realized his destiny.

- Gentlemen - Edmund said with a strange mixture of authority and ex officio complacency, -
the gentlemen will have the goodness to enter through the front door,
go around the table and exit through the back door.

Those wishing to contribute something to the orphan will find hand a hat that has become available
for the case.

The first visitor came in with his head covered, but turning a look around it is discovered, and
so unconsciously set an example to others, because in such a community
of nations, good and bad actions are contagious effect.

As the procession marched, were left to hear critical comments, directed
more particularly in his capacity Edmundo Exhibitor and surgeon.

-
What is it?

- The specimen is truly tiny.

- What is red!

- If it
is longer than a gun!

But the most characteristic were the gifts: a snuff box, silver, a
doubloon, a naval gun mounted in silver, a gold, a beautiful lady
handkerchief elaborately embroidered (on the part of Arthur, the player),
a diamond brooch, a ring Diamond also (suggested by the previous gift,
the giver with the observation that saw that pin and improved with
two diamonds), a sling, a bible (donor unknown) a spur of gold, a
silver spoon whose initials were not exactly those of generous donor,
a surgeon's scissors, a lancet, a bank of England, five pounds, and
loose about two hundred dollars in gold and currencies of all ilk.

While The ceremony lasted, Edmundo maintained a silence as absolute as that of the dead had
on your left and a Gravity as indecipherable as the newborn, lying above the table.

A slight incident broke the monotony of this strange procession.

Leon bending curiously on the box of candles, the creature turned, and a movement spasm grabbed the
errant finger of mine and for a moment kept him strong.

Leon placed the stunned face of an idiot, and something like shame strove bewitching his face
tanned by the sun.

- Cursed rascal - he said, removing his finger more tenderness and
care that could be suspect him.

As they go, keeping your finger separate from the other, examining with unusual care.

This test resulted in the same original observation on the angel.

In fact, seemed to rejoice at it again.

- He has quarreled with my finger!

"- Said Alexander Tipton, showing the privileged body.

- Cursed villain!

Had been four when the camp went to lie down. In the cabin, where someone watched, burning lights, Edmund
went to bed that night or not Leon, he drank discretion and happily recounted his adventure in
a manner unchanged, finishing with a rating characteristic of the newborn, this seemed to put safe
from unfair prosecution sensitivity, and Leon was not a man of weakness ... After they had
all gone to bed, He came up to the river, whistling casually. Soared after the canyon, and passed
whistling in front of the cabin still significant oversight. He sat next to a huge stick campeche and
retraced his steps and again went through the cabin.

Once there, slowly lit his pipe, and in a moment of frank resolution
called on the door.

Edmundo opened.

- How are you? - Said Leon, Edmundo looking over
toward the box of candles.

- Perfectly - Edmundo said.

- Is something
wrong?

- Nothing.

It happened a pause, awkward pause.

Edmund continued with the door open, turned León his finger, which
showed Edmundo.

- He fell out with the damn rascal - he said, and
went away.

At dawn the next day, had the rude burial Genoveva Sal could give Campo Rodrigo; later, when his
body had been returned to the bosom of the mountain, was celebrated a formal meeting camp to discuss
what should be done with his son, falling unanimous agreement and enthusiastic adoption. Yet
a lively debate arose about the possibility and how to provide for the extravagance of its maintenance.
Worth entered is that arguments do not participate in any of those fierce personalities that led,
for Generally, the discussions at Camp Rodrigo. The excirujano proposed to send the child to
Red-Dog, forty miles away, where he could lavish feminine care, but unfortunate statement soon
found the most unanimous and fierce opposition.

Undoubtedly, did not want to consider any plan that it involved the idea of ??separating the newcomer.

More
suspicious, Thomas Rider noted that Red-Dog people could change and endorse another, disbelief
in the honesty of the neighboring camps prevailed Field Rodrigo respect
to all matters.

The proposition to take a nurse at the meeting also found a formidable opposition. It was said,
first, that would not be met a woman who accepted as decent home Rodrigo field, adding he did not need
anyone other species. This indirect uncharitable to the deceased mother, harsh as it seemed,
was the first sign of regeneration the camp. Edmund said nothing, perhaps for reasons of delicacy
would not get into the choice of his possible successor, but when asked, said firmly that
he and Jinny, the ass before alluded to, could compose to raise a little boy. Something original
had an independent and heroic in this plan, we liked to camp, so
it was ratified Edmundo confidence, to be forwarded to Sacramento
for a few diapers.

- Watch out - said the treasurer's hands putting
a sandbag sent gold to could find, - laces, filigree work and lace
... whatever is necessary.

Although it seems a miracle, the creature moved forward, perhaps the vigorous climate of the
mountain undertook to address the shortcomings of the calf. Earth with its udders suckled this
adventurer. In that atmosphere of the hills at the foot of the mountains, at the air live, balsamic
odor, found cordial while purifying and invigorating, which served as food, or a subtle chemistry
that made the donkey's milk to lime and phosphorus and other nutrients elements. Edmundo was
inclined to believe it was the latter, and his thoughtful and careful attention.

- Me and the donkey - he said - we have served as father and mother.

And he added, often turning to bad envelope sketched before him:

- Never again will turn against us.

After thirty days, made himself clear need to name the child, since until then had been known as'
the lamb ',' the child of Edmund "," the cayote ", alluding to its powers vowels, and even
by the tender diminutive of "the damned rascal." However, soon said this was vague and unsatisfactory,
and a new opinion finally prevailed.

Adventurers and players are superstitious: Arturo said one day that the creature had the luck
to Countryside Rodrigo, and indeed the camp had been unlucky in recent
times.

Thus, So this was the name agreed with Tomasín prefix to make it a little more Christian. No
allusion was made to the mother and the father of little concern.

- Best is - said the philosopher Arthur - give back the cards and start calling Luck the game
again.

It was noted, therefore, time for the christening. Judging by the reigning carefree irreverence
Rodrigo Field, you can imagine what came to mean that party. The ringmaster Boston was a certain,
famous Taravilla, and the occasion seemed to pay great opportunity
to show off his jokes and witticisms.

This ingenious buffoon spent two days preparing a parody of ceremonial of the church, with some
hints of local flavor. Conveniently Ensayose choir and was chosen to sponsor Alejandro Tipton.
After the procession reached the grove he with music and flags in front, and the child was left at
the foot of an altar simulated. But suddenly appeared Edmundo, and ahead of the front of the
crowd in anticipation, said:

- It is not my habit to spoil the jokes,
guys - and in this he stood up the man resolutely facing eyes fixed
on him - but I think this is not right.

It is an outrage to the little boy, mixing in jokes that he can not understand. And regarding
the choice of sponsor, said in an authoritative tone: - I know who has more rights I.

A solemn silence followed these words, but is said in honor of all the jokers, the first man who
recognized the justice was the organizer of the event, thus depriving the legitimate enjoyment
of their work.

Benefiting from these advantages, Edmundo continued quickly: - But we are here for a christening
and we will, I baptize you, Thomas Luck, according to the laws of the United States and California,
y. .. in God's name. Amen.

For the first time in the camp uttering God's name that otherwise desecrated. The ceremony
was held just perhaps more laughable than it had been conceived Boston satirical, but, strangely
enough, nobody noticed it. Tomasín was christened as seriously as it would have been under
the vaults of a Christian church, and treated equally and considered.

And so he began the work of regeneration Country Rodrigo, operating in the camp imperceptible change. What
I first experienced the first signs of progress, was the modest home of Tomasín. Carefully cleaned
and bleached, was then palletized with wood, plastered and decorated. The rosewood cradle
of eighty miles brought about a mule, as Edmund said in his own way, was a worthy shot of everything.
Thus, rehabilitation the cabin was a fait accompli. The large crowd that used to hang out at home
Edmund to see how she's Luck, appreciated the change, and in self-defense, the establishment rival,
the spice of Tut, was restored with a mirror and a carpet. Healthy result these developments,
was to promote Field Rodrigo mores more rigid personal hygiene; also Edmundo imposed a kind
of quarantine for those who aspired to the honor of having in arms at La Suerte. Of course this was
a mortification to Leon, who, thanks to neglect of a manly nature and customs of frontier life,
had believed until then The dresses were a second skin, like the snake, only changed when
fell for lack of utility. However, it was so subtle the influence of foreign example, that from
that date onwards appeared regularly with clean shirt and face still shining by contact with
fresh water. Nor were neglected hygiene laws, moral and social. Tommy, who was supposed in constant
need of rest, should not be hampered by noises, so the yelling and howling as innate to camp
residents were not allowed within earshot of the house of Edmund.
The men talked in low voices or smoked with Indian gravity, blasphemy
was tacitly banned from those sacred precincts, and throughout the
camp as popular expletive: damn damn luck or fortune, was dismissed
for taking part in performances annoying