 The same obstinate silence by Fernanda. The Garnet did not care tear or a smile or a
word of thanks, his grotesque gestures and blunders that occasionally lets out do not arise in
the marble face of a young gesture of fatigue and disgust. At times he sleeps, sometimes viewed
with astonished eyes the landscape. When they reached the outskirts of León was night.

But what about Leon? When you reach the square where the shot change diligence discover large crowd
of people, hearing voices outrageous, discordant noise of musical instruments tolling of bells.
And come to rise above the crowd some painted transparent.

Paco Gomez, trace fruitful than Ulysses, had written to some friends of Leon time back inviting
them to have a charivari for when pasasen Garnet and his wife there. Lancia colony, which is large
in Leon, admirably seconded plans his countryman. All I had prepared. However, these preparations
have been useless without the betrayal of Manuel Antonio, who reaches Paco Lancia secret news
what happened. He used the telegraph, newly installed, and began
communicating with his followers.

Fernanda soon realized that this uproar was against it. When, for some screams reached his ears, came
to the attention of it, turned pale, his eyes widened and with a cry, rushed to the window
to throw out. Garnet stopped holding the waist. The girl fought furiously at times, but can not
discard those short arms and brawny bear, he fell at last into the
seat, hands She took in the face and began to sob.

- God, sin has
been great, but what a terrible punishment!

X

Five years later.

Five years elapsed. The noble city of Lancia has changed little on the outside and less still
in its customs. A few houses adorned with marzipan grilleras raised by gold Indian park near San
Francisco, several pieces of pavement on streets that he never possessed, three more lanterns
in Constitution Square, a policeman cool, which owes its existence not so much as service needs
to passions the mayor, a man of lofty thoughts, devoted almost entirely to Venus, which rewards
the condescension of Vulcan with the municipal budget in some Bombé ride bronze statues of
the fallen robes, which were serious scandal to his erection, making Judge Saleta proclaimed
in the gathering of Grandee that "the average was one hundred nudity most exciting times to complete,
"in the heads of our mature known some silver threads, and in the face radiant as the rainbow
of Manuel Antonio, the most seductive of the sons of the illustrious city, and obvious signs that
her beauty will soon fade like a happy dream glacial breath in the
morning, as the snowflakes gently falling in the dead of winter a
sad day.

Vegetative life itself, misty, sleepy, the same conversation at the backrooms sucking with honey
delight of gossip. Weighing vulgar nicknames always lead slab on the happiness of some respectable
families. At the pump, sunny afternoons, the same clerics and military groups deployed in wing
walking. The huge bells of the basilica invariably ringing at set times. The devout old walking
with hurried to plant rosario or ninth. The monotonous chanting of the canons resonate deeply
in solitude of the high vaults. In Altavilla, at dusk, the eternal youth dances happy, laughing
a lot, talking loudly and opening We often to make way for a seamstress spiritual or affluent
meat maid who pay homage to the eyes, with the word and often with your hands. And there,
high in the sky, the same rings of clouds sad brown and quietly piling up on the ancient cathedral
to listen in melancholy of autumn night wind moans across the high drag of the tower shaft.

We are in November. The Count de Onís used to ride a horse the same on clear days in the dark. Fewer
and fewer will place the company of men. His character has been more suspicious and melancholy.
Sin annihilated the weak germs of joy that nature had placed in his heart. The gloomy temperament,
extravagant, fanatic Gayoso has been extolling it little by little with the incessant gnawing
of remorse, has upset his imagination, has enervated their low activity
and blackened its existence.

Bothered by men. In all eyes plan to watch hostility in the most innocent phrases, any malicious
intent that makes your blood boil with rage. Dare not enter the temples, even dropped to his
knees, as before, against the fourth bloody crucifix of his mother. If you hear talk of hell trembles
and flees. Send large alms to the churches charge masses who can not hear, put candles on
the images, and secrecy of his room is entertaining at times childishly to ask fate, throwing
a coin if will be condemned forever or just purgatory. When it comes to their ears singing
the priests who accompany a funeral, pale, trembling and covered their ears. By We often wake
up startled night with a cold sweat, screaming miserably "There die!

Must die! "

For a long time he lived almost completely removed, without leaving more than when it ordered
that will that had been his dominion. Then, as suffer too much, fearing that ended his dark thoughts
his reason, gave the outline to go by foot or horse, until fatigue.

The physical fatigue paid break his spirit, the show Nature calmed his troubled imagination.

It was a cold, dark afternoon. The clouds piled up over the hills weigh closing the horizon the
North, and hide the high mountains of Lorrin that stretch like a distant curtain by the West.
Heavy showers that have fallen became lower lake city and mud roads depart from it. Despite
this, the Count sent her saddle horse Lancia leaves the road to Castilla, and gallops among the
clouds of mud across the prairies and forests of chestnut trees. The yellow leaves of the
trees, washed rain, shine like gold, a thousand rivulets down the side hesitant creepeth of the
hill and go to deposit their water in the plain, which expands with soft green and wet undulations.
A darker band indicates the channel of Lora, which is hidden under
mysterious its rows of willow and thick alders.

The count, with his head thrown back, eyes half closed, breathed with delight the cool damp
of the afternoon. The road flanked the gently sloping hill. Before transpose and lose sight of the
city, stopped his horse and looked back. Lancia was a lot, not great, red roof, on the dark arrow
protruding from the cathedral.

Received a yellow spot under the oak forest of the Farm. Further down the towers orange of his
ancestral home.

The rain has stopped. A cold wind swept clouds and precipitates behind
the mountains.

The sky unfolds seamlessly with the pale blue of the autumn days. Some stars already point on
the horizon like diamonds. The trees, mountains, streams, valley green carpet covered the undecided
in the dim glow of the sunset light.

The count put back his horse and galloped swiftly down the hillside Lancia hiding. The wind
pressed his temples, ringing in their ears, causing a fresh drunkenness dispelling the dark clouds
of his imagination. On the muddy road is not but a herd of cattle, some trajinante with his team,
or slowly by oxen-drawn cart, in the bottom of which sleeps the road carelessly. But before transposing
a bend, thinks he hears distant sound of wheels and bells. It is the seat post that comes at dusk
Lancia. Crossing his side runs a distracted look in the background,
and collide with other eyes large and shining.

Feel an electric thrill, head back quickly, but and sees only the back of the chair away. Pull
the reins to the horse and follows: a few moments embarrassed stops and continues its march.

Would
Fernanda? A fleeting sensation, but very clear, it said. However, it could have wrong. Had no
news of their arrival. I knew who became a widow a few months. Garnet had rolled at the end like
an ox under the stroke of apoplexy. But at the same time was valid word that hated Indian widow's
death from the humiliating Lancia farce that their countrymen had
been given in marriage.

The failure to come when the death of his father, which occurred last year, left him well tested.

Count
on this thought a few moments, after he faded from the mind distracted him a cloud thick raped
and moved toward the zenith again presaging rain. But in the background his spirit was somewhat
vague and sweet put in a good mood. The horse stirred and came to Lancia and good night, dripping
and covered in mud, but a light heart and gay without knowing why.

Fernanda did not hesitate an instant. He saw and knew as clearly as he could to warn signals
that the time and care had printed on his face. He seemed older; thought he saw in his long silver
beard wisps. At the same time in his eyes, perched a moment on it, guessed the suffering,
boredom, something sad, he was impressed happily. The memory of her former boyfriend had always
lived in the bottom of his chest. Or treason, or contempt, or the thousand distractions which
flew into the frivolous life bustling Paris, had managed to tear it from there. If I had found satisfaction
in the fullness of his strength and health, would not have felt that sweet breath caressed her
instantly. In such a malignant joy was unquenchable resentment of the woman scorned, but also
something winged, sound, vaporous, like hope, who sang and laughed
in his soul and blacks dissipated thoughts that accumulated on his
forehead.

The need, not their will, forced her to return to Lancia, which had vowed not to put feet anymore.
Her husband had made a will in his favor. The brothers of one challenged him. He had filed a
lawsuit, who won in the first instance. Attached was a former servant of his father, transformed
into a lady in waiting, and a butler. From Madrid had telegraphed a premium, and this, together
with Manuel Antonio, two girls of Matthew and some friends over, waited in the badly paved
square of the Post, which stopped the diligence. And come hugs and hugs and kisses, and go to questions
and exclamations and tears.

The victim heir-Rosa Estrada had not expected to feel such joy the plant in his hometown.

Her friends took her embraced, almost in a twinkling, all the way home. There were dismissed
all but Emilita Mateo, who Fernanda beckoned her to stay. The two friends reached slowly,
holding her waist, the staircase, broad, polished, so often their Girl tiny feet had trod. They
soon shut in the old cabinet daughter Rosa Estrada-time to savor the sweet secrets. Kisses and
smiles and protests of faithful friendship is told his life during those five years. Fernanda spoke
her late husband with a compassion that would be sad and it was very derogatory. Lived with him in a sort
of antagonism of ideas, tastes and desires, which constantly kept away. Neither was happy
or unhappy. Five years were paraded stunner before him busy streets, glittering theaters, grand
hotels, dance halls, dazzling costumes, many acquaintances and no friends. Her husband kowtow
to their whims force, like a bear growling indomitable he obeyed the bottom of the tamer. Had
a daughter, who died at four months.

The playful Emilia was very unhappy in her marriage. Nunez had gone a Perdis. And Fernanda knew
but vaguely. In letters is not easy to descend into some significant details. At first very
well, but then bad company had spoiled. He gave the game first, then the drink lately by women.
The latter was what was Emilia. Everything is forgiven by Choice: to come drunk at late at night,
he pawned the earrings, covered, until the cap shelter, what could not bear was that he saw
enter the house of a loss that lived Locksmith in the street. In saying that the daughter
of Retired let out a torrent of tears. Saw her pained mourn, for the joy that was always rebellious
distinctive character. Fernanda tenderly caressed her and shared her tears. After a moment of silence
asked

- But do you still love him?

- Yes, my dear, yes! - Angrily exclaimed .-- I can not help.

I am increasingly blinded by it.

- Oh dear! Your poor father will also disgustadísimo.

- Imagine! ... And worse - he said, crying bitterly - now returned to his old hobby against the military
... He says horrible things about the military ... Yes, yes, horrible!

... As I go for house starts to nonsense, nothing more than to mortify
... My sisters support him ... They call us lazy and say ... say the
quota should be reduced ...

At this point, the sobs broke the tender
breast Nunez's wife.

Fernanda, who also cried seeing her so distraught, could not help
smiling.

- Your sister too!

- You bet!

... Everybody, everybody wants to be reduced! ...

When the daughter of Rosa Estrada, had demonstrated that it was not as easy as it seemed to reduce
of ground forces, his spirit finally calmed down gradually. Then entered into both to surprise
laciense society. Fernanda be presented that night without prior
notice Quinones in the talk show.

A childlike joy seized both with this project. So that shaped it, Emilita bye, promising to
return soon to find his friend.

It was ten o'clock at night when both went up the stone steps, always
oozing by moisture, the vast stately steps of Quiñones.

At the top Emilita that forbade the servant announced. She opened the door Fernanda room and pushed
inward.

It was an appearance that left ecstatic for a moment at the circles. Estrada's daughter, Rosa, wore
an elegant dress shop just out of one of the most famous dressmakers Paris. Her beauty, which
his countrymen knew no more than the delicate button was become marvelous rose in the five
years of refined and elegant.

Wonderful for the arrogance of her body for the brightness of its large African eyes, by the delicacy
of her complexion, the beauty of Paris Fernanda had acquired its
necessary, grace, the noble and simple gesture, the taste in clothes,
the highest distinction in Lancia had ever achieved.

Her black silk dress left bare chest and back.

Some Pearl runs woven in the hair made up all the trappings of his head.

Amalia was the first he saw her, and suddenly blood flowed from the heart. Answer immediately
ran to greet her.

- Oh! I knew you'd come, but figured it would be so kind ...

Both looked into his eyes and declared, with a glint, hatred burning in the background of their
souls. But circumstances had changed. Amalia was five years ago, the lady most elegant and
distinguished of the population, the only one whose poise and refinement of manners transcended to
another level more cultured and spiritual. Fernanda infinitely surpassed
by now. It had aged so obvious.

Among his hair strands were already enough silvery complexion, always pale, had lost its freshness,
and he had lost desire and taste in clothes, had been gradually folding under the pressure of
society ordinary and corny that surrounds it, adapting to it and neglecting more and more of him. The contrast
was, therefore, more alive. Well I noticed the noble wife and Grandee felt humiliated to the core of your
being. A smile from her lips as contracted despite Fernanda changed with the obligatory greetings.
It was enjoying his triumph with deep and serene joy.

The ladies rodeáronla immediately.

It was a deluge of kisses and hugs accompanied by live exclamations
of joy.

The men, who formed a circle behind her hands also advanced and warmly shook the traveler's beautiful.
And while much congratulations and congratulatory words, or out of forgetfulness or embarrassment,
no one dared to hint at the misfortune that she had experienced A
few months ago, even the slightest memory for red bear sleeping their
eternal sleep in a cemetery in Paris.

Only when the excitement had calmed Greetings, Amalia took her hand and said smiling at her from
top to bottom:

- Do you know that are very elegant suits duel in Paris!

Fernanda was a sneer.

- Never mind the dress if it is the duel in the heart - Maria Josefa
said that in the five years that have passed prodigiously had sharpened
the blade, the tip Tailstocks and their language.

Fernanda's cheeks were stained with carmine. Ashamed as if it were a crime not to feel Garnet
loss. Then, irritated by this hostility, almost violent show anger. He turned his back and
began to talk to other ladies.

At that time the Count de Onís left the cabinet and came to greet her. He held out his hand with
a warm smile. She handed hers in a glacial, spreading rapidly look. However, he warned about
his eyes a pale circle denouncing emotion. To conceal walked to the cabinet, said with affected
lightness that get free, that he had more desire to see was a D. Pedro.

The Grandee noble lay on his couch with the cards in his hand. His hair and beard were whiter,
but so bristling and wild. His strong features seemed more pronounced; sunken eyes shone more
brightly delusional. Moving to work that great torso Athletic empty of the features of his
face contracted with a look of fierce sadness and helplessness that inspired fear. But if your
body is visibly cast down, stood his pride more and more verve. Every day grew a little respect
that embodied called himself by Quiñones de León and contempt for others by being born under
the stigma of any other name.

Deeply appreciative of the sky that had such we want to develop,
would have to sin to complain about their fate and the other men envy
the ability to use their legs.

Who cares if Juan Fernandez can walk, run and jump, if at the end
of the day is called Juan Fernandez?

What he cared about was if sometimes appropriate to the dignity of having a limb Quiñones entirely
inert, and if it would be preferable that they lived to share in the glory of the organism. Soon
discarded, however, such concerns just thinking about those who live or dead Tips occupied a higher
rank in society. When Fernando came into the cabinet looked up and stared at her a sharp look
that embraced her from head to toe. Neither beauty nor the size, uniquely stylish, the girl had
to leave satisfied, immediately because he made the cards and exclaimed with insolent protection:

-
Hi, baby! Is that you? When did you get?

In spite of being mortified by that tone, Fernanda greeted him warmly.

- Good to see you so good, my dear, and take this opportunity to give their condolences. You know
I do not write letters for years.

I felt a lot Santos ... Listen, Moro: proposed you do in your life give me a decent card?
... It was a good fellow, a good neighbor, unable to hurt anyone. You will not find another man
like him. Had a quality that is very hard: modesty. Despite the money he had managed to put
together, did not seek out of its sphere; always respectful to superiors said. Right, Saleta,
which was not as these lice raised, so they sound a few coins in his pocket forget beans and
rye, as if his life had tried? ... Valero, seated, and say it back soon if you have ... Are
you coming to settle here, little girl, or you become to see the
Frogs?

Fernanda, who felt perfectly all the gall of that speech, he answered
coolly, and then of few words went to the salon.

A D. Pedro had bothered
him the whiff of elegance and distinction bouncing daughter Estrada,
Rosa. He was irritated that someone were to rise up around him, even
it were only a few inches. Loathed everything foreign, and particularly
that Paris, where he envisioned Quiñones de León that were not very
decisive influence. So vaguely suspected, with horror, which were
unknown. Of course I tried to separate mind from such disparate idea.
If you were to enter fully into the spirit, what remained the noble
knight? Die, and nothing else.

Triplet making the game are the same
characters we already know. Saleta, the great Saleta, whose lies are
streaming from his mouth soft and syrupy, which forced him to smacking
often