 

Whatever the thinking of our generals, the fact is that the first division immediately received
orders to start, while Brown with the third and reserve headed for the bridge to pass Marmolejo
and attack Dupont Andújar. I said commanding D. Teodoro Reding first division, it has not yet
been written by History nor that for me is that I was part of it, because all the horses had voluntarily
been built, or rather, cast in the battalions of the army, which had just with half the quota.
My love and those who followed, we had formed in ranks Farnese Regiment, while the lancers
were almost all built Sevilla the regiment in Spain.

On 13 separate ourselves from our peers and take the path, rather,
sidewalks and trails that lead to Menjíbar.

We did not reach six thousand, but we were good people, but I say it is wrong. The Walloon Guards
Regiment, the Swiss, the Crown, the of Ireland, Jaén, the riot provincial Carmona riflemen,
cavalry Farnese and six fire hydrants in command D. Antonio de la Cruz, were pieces respectable
proud of themselves. General had a man for brash, more courage than discretion; medium tactical,
but tireless on the march. Our chief of staff, D. Francisco Javier Abadía, was a very knowledgeable
military, perhaps the best that the army was then Spanish, and the colonel put in charge of the artillery
officer was going through a lot of insight in his gun. We called the sainetero, being the son
of D. Ramon de la Cruz.

Forward, then to reach Menjíbar, people are very agitated because
a detachment French, sent to Jaen in search of food, after plundering
horribly this city had retreated to their headquarters, destroying
in its wake the region.

There were Jaén atrocities that are hardly credible military in a European country. Dijéronnos than
women and children had been cruelly slaughtered, and death as they suffered within their hospitals
several Augustinian and Dominican friars sick. The consternation of those people was excessive,
and approaching troops flocked to us, shedding tears of anger, begging us not to let a Frenchman
living, and asking the old yet strong twelve-year Raptors that they be allowed to march through
the ranks to help us. As we said after the sack, in immediate transit villages, Almenara, Source
King, Grañena and others had not left not a grain of wheat, or a quart of wine or a handful
of straw. Even medicines from pharmacies and hospitals were stolen Jaén, and at the same time,
neither a car nor a mule stayed in that neighborhood.

Many families had come to Menjíbar plundered. In the town square two monks escaped the butchers
of Jaén, preached the extermination of the French.