 The damned environment!

In
times of prosperity, when he lived in his palace in Palma, where
a Margalida her mother raised, it would have felt for her appetite
inspiring freshness of youth, without anything resembling love.

Other women then dominated him with seduction their devices and refinements. But here, in complete
solitude, with the most imperious instincts irritated by deprivation, seeing Margalida between the
dark and rugged beauty of her companions, beautiful as a white goddess of religious worship
that inspire people coppery dementia felt desire, and all his actions were absurd, as if he had lost
always right.

Had to flee: on the island there was no room for him. It may well be that deceive their pessimism
to appreciate the importance of affection that had pushed Margalida.

Maybe it was not desire, but love, the first true love of his life was almost sure of it. But although
it were, had to forget and escape, escape quickly.

Why go on this earth? What hope is keeping him?

... Margalida, as if it proves forces over the surprise experienced by knowing his love, he
was fleeing, hiding silent, I could only mourn, and tears were not a response. Pep, by a remnant
of worship traditional silent tolerate this quirk of lord, but was going to explode from one moment
another against the man who disrupted his life. The island, which had accepted him politely, now
seemed to rise against the stranger come a long way to disrupt their patriarchal quietism,
concentrated their existence, their pride of separate people, with the same ferocity that had risen
in other centuries against Norman, Arabic and Berber landed on its shores.

Impossible to meet everyone, he would flee. His eyes caressed a huge stretch of sea lying between
two hills, a blue curtain to conceal a rift in the earth. One piece at sea was the journey
of salvation, hope, the unknown that opens its arms mystery in the most difficult moments of life.
Perhaps return to Mallorca, to lead a respectable beggar lives next to the friends who still
remembered him, maybe pass the Peninsula and went to Madrid in search of a job, maybe end up
embarking for America. Everything was better to go there. I was not afraid, not intimidated by the
hostility of the island and its inhabitants, I felt was guilt, shame, by the disturbances that
had caused.

Instinctively her feet out to sea, which was now his love and hope. Avoided Can step by Mallo,
and upon arrival went to the beach along the shore, where the last heartbeat the waves came to be lost,
as thin sheet of glass, between the tiny pebbles mixed with fragments of clay.

When he was at the foot of the promontory of the tower, climbed up the loose rocks, going to sit
on the rock gnawed by the waves and almost detached from the coast. There had been thinking
a stormy night, the same that was presented as a suitor in house Margalida.

The evening was calm, the sea was extraordinarily intense and deep color transparency. Reflejábanse
sand funds as milk spots, the underwater rocks and dark vegetations rebullicio seemed to tremble with
a mysterious life. The white clouds floating on the horizon, rising before the sun on the
sea drew large areas of shadow. A extension piece was dark blue and matte, while beyond this
mantle movable seemed to boil water with bright golden bubbles. Sometimes, the sun hidden behind
the curtains of clouds, launched under his sleeve hem visible light, a jet Flashlight a long triangle
of white light, like a Dutch landscape.

Nothing in this aspect of the sea reminded Febrer stormy night, and however, Association forming
in our minds the ideas to places formerly neglected when we visited them, Febrer began to feel
the same thoughts, only Now, instead of forward, marching in the
opposite direction, with a confusion of defeat.

He laughed bitterly about his optimism on that occasion, the trust that had been neglected all their
ideas about the past. The dead rule: its authority and power are undeniable. How could he, loving
impulses of enthusiasm, ignoring the enormous and heartbreaking right? ... Well made him feel
gloomy tyrants of our lives all the overwhelming weight of his power. What had he done to you
in this corner of the earth, its last refuge, he mirasen as a stranger? ... The countless generations
of men whose dust and whose soul were confused with the land of the island had left as inheritance
to the present hatred of foreigners, fear and loathing of the stranger, with whom he lived
always at war.

He was coming from other countries was greeted with a repellent insulation, sorted by that
no longer existed.

When neglecting their old prejudices, trying to approach a woman, this woman replegábase mysterious
and fearful of such an approach. It was a crazy his work: the conjunction seagull rooster and
a monk extravagant dream and both laugh at the peasants. They had wanted men in the past to establish
and divide society into classes, and so should continue. Useless things to rebel against established.
The life of a man was short, and not enough to do battle with hundreds of thousands of lives
that had existed before spy on her and seemed invisible and pressed
between memory material creations were of his time on earth, overwhelmed
by their thoughts, that filled the room and were used by all who were
born without power to devise something new.

Send the dead and the living is useless to resist obeying. All transgressions get out of this
bondage, to break the chain of ages, all lies.

Febrer remembered sacred wheel of the Indian Buddhist symbol he had seen in Paris to attend Eastern
religious ceremony in a museum.

The wheel is the symbol of our life. We move because we move, we move forward because we are going
forward, and when the wheel turns full, we are in the site. The life of humanity, history,
everything was an endless "start afresh of things. " People are born, grow, progress, the cabin becomes
a castle and later in factory form the huge cities with millions of men, they occur after the disasters,
wars over scarce bread to so many people, the protests of the dispossessed, the mass killings,
and cities were depopulated and fall into ruins. The grass invades proud monuments, the metropolis
is gradually sinking into the ground and sleep under centuries hills. The untamed forest covers
the capital of remote times, goes hunting wild where once the leaders were greeted with apparatus
winners demigods; graze sheep and shepherd blows his flute on the ruins that were tribune dead
laws; men re-grouped and raises the hut, the village, the castle, the factory, the city enormous,
and repeats the same, always the same, with a difference of hundreds of centuries, as repeated in
other men the same movements, ideas and concerns over a few years. The wheel! The eternal restart
of things! And all creatures changing human herd sheep barn, but never pastors! And the shepherds
were always them, the dead, the first thought, and whose main thought was how the handful
of snow that rolls and rolls down the slopes, widening, leading acceded in its tack is to step
everything! ... The men, proud of their material, mechanical toy invented for their welfare, free
thought, exceeding last emancipated from the original easement, and said everything had been said
hundreds of centuries before, with different words! His passions were the same, their thoughts,
they considered own, were glare and reflections from other remote thoughts, and all acts that had for
good or ill-deserved this classification immutable, because it had been decided by dead, the tyrannical
dead, the man would kill again if he wanted to be really free ... Who would do this great feat
of liberation? What would champion strong enough to kill the monster that has hung over humanity,
huge and overwhelming, as the legends of dragons guarding treasures under his useless hulk? ...

Febrer
long remained motionless on the rock, elbows on knees and jaw hands, deep in thought, his eyes
mesmerized by the gentle rise and fall pulsating water.

When started this meditation began to fall afternoon ... Would continue to your destination!
He just could live in the heights, even if the humility of the mendicant.

All roads drop one appeared closed, bye, happiness sought in a return to natural life primitive!
Since the dead man was not wanted, it would be parasite.

His eyes wandered over the horizon, the white fijáronse vapors that
were piled on the edge of the sea.

When I was little and Antonia Madò accompanied him on trips around the coast Soller, had entertained
many times, giving body and name, with an effort of imagination, the clouds that touched or were
scattered in an endless variety of forms, seeing them as soon as a black monster of jaws swollen like
a virgin between celestial glow.

An accumulation of dense clouds and crisp white fleece which caught his eye. This white light was
the polished bone of the skull. Loose tufts of dark vapor floated on this cloud. Febrer's
imagination was seeing them as two black holes and terrifying, dark triangle similar to that makes
the nose disappeared in the face of the dead and below a huge gash, tragic, like the silent
laughter of a mouth without lips and teeth.

Death was the great lady, the empress of the world, which showed him with his white mate and
majesty, in broad daylight, defying the splendors of sun, blue sky, green light of the sea. The
reflection of the dying star put a spark of life in malignant bone Host pale face in the darkness
of their black sockets, his smile giving fright ... Yes, it was her! The clouds scattered
at sea level and folds appeared studs a robe that hid his huge skeleton, and other clouds floating
overhead, a large manga, which is more subtle and escaping vapors forming a swing arm bone topped
by an index as a dry and curved claw dam, pointing far, far away, mysterious destination.

The vision faded rapidly with movement of the clouds. Borráronse their frightful contours, adopting
other strange shapes, but Febrer, to lose sight, not out so of his hallucination.

Unquestioningly accepted the command: depart. The dead command, and he was their servant helpless.
The light of late afternoon gave the objects a strange relief. In the recesses of the coast marcábanse
strong shadows that seemed to give life and animal forms to the stones. In the distance, a headland
resembled a lion crouching beside the waves, looking at James with hostility silent. The cliffs
along the water taken out and hid their heads crowned black green manes, giant amphibians as
a human monster. The solo was by Formentera part of an immense dragon slowly moving in the
horizon, with long line of clouds, to devour treacherously the dying sun.

When the red area, fleeing from the danger, plunged into the water, expanded by a spasm of
terror, sadness woke gray twilight Febrer of his hallucination.

Stood up, picked up the abandoned gun beside him, and made his way to the tower. The program
was mentally preparing for his departure. I did not think a word to anyone. Would wait to play
at the port of Ibiza Mallorca mail steam, and only in the last Pep
time would account for its resolution.

The certainty of this retreat soon leave him with interest to see inside the tower the light
of a candle that had just lit. Its shadow, enlarged and hesitant gigantically the oscillations
of light, went back and forth on the white walls, eclipsing objects
that adorned them or causing them to glow the nacre of the shells
and the metal hanging gun.

Attracted some hawking known Febrer, and made him look out at the
top of the stairs.

A man wrapped in a shawl was in the first steps. It was Pep.

- The sopar - briefly said, holding a basket.

Jaime took it. We noticed in the peasant a desire not to speak, and he, in turn, felt some afraid
that broke its brevity.

- Bona nit!

Pep began the journey back to his farm after this brief greeting,
as a server respectful and angry that only allows his master essential
words.

Jaime back inside the tower, closed the door, leaving the basket on
the table. Was not appetite, dine later.

He took a pipe rustic, carved by a peasant in a branch of cherry snuff filled it and began
to smoke, followed by the fluttering eyes distracted spirals smoke, as subtle blue candle took
to the iridescent transparency.

Then he looked for a book and wanted to read, but was frustrated all the efforts to concentrate
attention on reading.

Out of that shell of stone ruled the night, a dark night, deep mystery. Al through the walls
seemed to seep that solemn silence that falls from above, and in which slightest noise gain terrifying
proportions, as if the rumor was heard himself.

Febrer I fancied the pounding of blood circulation in the deep quiet. Of occasionally heard the
shriek of a gull or the momentary excitement of tamarisk under a blast, like the murmur of crowds
theater hidden behind fake racks. On the ceiling of the room sounded like the creak-creak intervals
a monotonous worms gnawing beams with constant work, unnoticed during the day. The sea tore the
dark with a placid snoring, which was breaking wave on all outgoing and crannies of the coast.

For
the first time he realized exactly the solitude in which he lived. Was it possible to continue
this existence of a hermit?

And when surprised by the disease? And when he got older? ... At this hour the city began a new
life under the white glare of electric lighting, we cut the flow in the streets with the crush
of cars windows sparkled, abríanse theaters, sounded funny sidewalks under heels of beautiful women.
And he was like a primitive man inside a tower barbaric no other signs of civilization that wan
light that only served to make more visible darkness, surrounded
by a tragic silence, as if the world had slept forever.

Guessed the other side of the stone wall the shadow fraught with
mystery and danger. No housed the beast, as in prehistoric times,
but it could serve as shelter man.

Suddenly, Febrer, who stood motionless,
listening to himself, with a similar quiet that of fearful children
who fear removed in bed not to increase the mystery of their surrounding
shivered in his seat. Something extraordinary cut the air, dominating
with its stridency the confused noises of the night. It was a scream,
a howl, a snort, one of those voices hostile and mocking with the
vengeful atlots were called in the shade.

Jaime felt an impulse to
get up, run to the door, but then remained stationary