 So ran Eugene and close
good book, and out of his mind those grim memories, giving back to the contemplation of the beautiful
nature.

Hours pass, sounds begin work, and that day looks like from misfortune. Everything goes wrong,
it would seem that you have reached the suicide Eugenio curses. Very early runs through the house a
terrible moodiness, N has gone very bad night has risen M ill, and all are more bitter than green
fruit juice. A Eugene also hits some of the malignancy air around him, but still retains something
of the calm emotions sunrise.

The overcast day goes, time will not be as good as it promised the viewer morning. Eugene goes
to his prosecution, the rain starts, the umbrella is not enough to cover the traveler, and
a narrow street crowded with mud is a horse Eugenio galloping, without regard to the sparks of
mud on their helmets make the poor passenger pedestrian made a shame from head to foot. It is
necessary to go back, go home, between mohino irritated, no cursing as high as romantic, but
not too pious by prayer for the horse and rider. Life is not already so beautiful, but it is still
bearable philosophy as the time is overcast but the sun has not disappeared yet. Destinations
of humanity are not desperate, but the sets of men are a little heavy. At last would always be
better than domestic sides were not of Lent, the streets were clean,
or that if they were dirty, no horses galloping to the neighborhood
of passersby.

On a disgrace is another. Eugene Fixed the first debacle, returns to his prosecution, going to
the house of his friend, who has news to report satisfactory regarding importance to a business.
For the moment it is received with coldness, the friend tries to escape the conversation about
the main point, and pretends occupations constraints that force you to postponed for another
day to try the case. Eugene dismisses something unsavory and suspicious, and rack their brains
to figure out the mystery, but a happy accident makes him find another friend who reveals the
plot of the first, and warns you not to rest if not to be victim of the most infamous treachery. Hurried
to take their orders, go to other that can inform the real situation of affairs, we explain the betrayal,
have pity of his misfortune, but all agree that it is too late. The loss is grown, and also irreparable:
the traitor has taken his measures with such caution, that the unfortunate Eugenio has not noticed
the trick until it has been hopelessly entangled. Go to the courts is impossible, because the
business does not allow it, blame the treacherous blackness of their action is relief barren
with nothing to take revenge and increase remedy the ills of the avenger. No but to resign.
Eugene retired to his home, goes into his cabinet, is delivered to all pain that it brings so
frustrated hopes, and inevitable change in position social. The book is still on the table, the
view reminds him of the reflections in the morning; inside and exclaims: "Oh! how miserably fooled,
when reputed exaggeration the hellish paintings in the world do these men! It is undeniable: they're
right: this is horrible, heartbreaking, frustrating, but it's reality. The man is a depraved animal,
society is a cruel stepmother, I should say an executioner who delights in tormenting, insult
us, and mocks our anxieties, while we cover with shame and give us death. There is no good faith
there is no friendship, no gratitude, no generosity, no There is no virtue on earth, all is
selfish, look concerned, treachery, betrayal, lies. For much suffering, why we have been given
life? Where is Providence, where justice God? Where ?....»

Eugene came here, and as seen by our readers, the sweet and gentle and wise philosophy in the
morning, thoughts had turned to Satan, Beelzebub inspirations. Nothing had been moved in the
world, everything went in his regular career, and neither man nor society could say worse, or delivered
to other destinations, have happened to Eugene a disgrace unexpected. Who is he moved, his feelings
have changed, his heart full of bitterness bile spills on the understanding, and this, in obedience
to the promptings of pain and of despair, the world will come painted in the colors more horrific.
And do not think Eugene comes from bad faith, see things such as express, as well as expressing
morning at the time such as the saw.

We leave to Eugene, where the terrible .... no doubt that he had aborted a blasphemy horrifying,
if not interrupted the monologue with the arrival of a gentleman freely friend enters the cabinet
without stopping at third.

- Come, my dear Eugene, I know you played a bad game.

- How you be!

-
It is very treacherous.

- So goes the world.

- What matters is about
it.

- Remedy ?.... is impossible ...

- Very simple.

- I like the
freshness.

- Everything is in gears up more funds, to take the mail
today and beat by hand.

- But what makes them ready? their calculations
lie about where I am unable to do so, and knowing the status of my
business, effect disbursements so far for the cursed object, is quite
sure that I can not take the lead.

- And if these funds were already
ready ...

- Not dreaming ...

- Look, we were meeting some friends
for the business that you do not ignore, we are You just mentioned
what happened, and the disaster that was going to cause you.

The deep impression I have produced, you can assume it, and having
sought permission from members to leave For my part the project, and
come to offer my resources, all instantly have followed my example,
all have said they will gladly face the risk of delaying its operations,
and sacrifice your gain until you'd got the better of the business.

-
But I can not agree ....

- Be ...

- But what if those gentlemen,
whom not even know ...

- You distrust was already planned, so use
the mail, I'm going, and this book will find all that is needed.

Adieu, my dear Eugene.

The portfolio has fallen by the book fatal Eugenio ashamed to be anathematized
the humanity, without exception when the mail does not let you philosophize,
but feels his philosophy takes less desperate bias.

The next morning the sun shone beautiful bright as day, the nightingale
singing in the branches, the farmer will go to their tasks, and Eugene
will to see things as they did before their fatal adventures.

Within 24 hours which certainly have not changed anything either
in nature or in society, the philosophy of Eugene has come a vast
space, to return as the stars, at the same point where depart.

§ IV.

Don Marcelino.

Political changes.

Don Marcelino has just emerged from an election, in which the parties have fought tremendous
battle. Muscle strength has also had his vote been brandished knives have been unabated the blows,
the bell of the President has resonated with the sound of raucous voices, and lungs of bronze.
Don Marcelino belongs to the defeated party, and had to be saved
to escape.

What is value, as can be seen, not lacking, but it was important
not to forget the considerations of prudence and decorum.

The unpleasant impression he was not cleared in a few days, and it is remarkable that it is sufficient
to spoiling his liberal ideas.

"Desengáñense DVDs, gentlemen, said the tone of the most deep conviction, this is a farce, an
absurd, we have committed an atrocity, not no choice but a strong arm, the absolutism has
its drawbacks, but evil the less. Representative government, the government of enlightened
reason and free will is very beautiful in the pages of works on constitutional law, and articles
newspaper, but in reality no more than intrigue thrive, immorality, and especially impudence
and audacity. I'm already disappointed, and I felt it that well: others will come I paid. "

As
a result of the riots, the military authority takes an imposing attitude, says the state of emergency,
suspending the constitution, the rioters were intimidated, and the
city calm down.

Don Marcelino can be delivered without fear to their regular walks,
queen as safe by day and night, and so the wretched voter will forget
the scene the campanillazos, shouting, clubs and daggers.

Ocúrresele meantime take a trip, and you need your passport. At the entrance of the house There are
numerous police guard troops Don Marcelino is going to enter into the first door offered and
the Grenadier says, "Back." aim at the other, and the guard yells high and shrill voice: "Paisano
layer." remove her veil, goes something mohino, and henchmen, who resent the rigidity governmental, discourteous
gesture tell him to "fail V. so fast, wait V. your turn.

"arrived at the table, the officer directs thousands of questions researchers, looks from head
to foot, as if he suspected that the poor D. Marcelino is a the heads of the mutiny the other
day. Finally gives the passport dismissive gesture, low head, and does not deign to return the
greeting the traveler directs you with kindness and courtesy.

The patient is doing very upset, but do not think that scene has had to modify political opinion.
Reúnese with friends, the conversation turns on the latest occurrences and rises gradually to
the region of the theories of government. Don Marcelino no longer absolutist another day. What
a scandal, says one of the bystanders, I can not remember without
hate those traps! - certainly responds D. Marcelino, but in all there
are drawbacks; V. look, absolutism provides quiet, but what do I know?
also has his stuff.

At Men should not rule them with a stick, and finally we must not forget the dignity .-- But
forget it by chance are living under an absolute government? - I do not say that, but it we
must not rush to condemn the representative forms, he can not deny the absolute have some
stiffness, which suffer up the last wheels of government.

The reader will know that D. Marcelino, even inadvertently, think of the scene of the passport;
the rough behind the grenadier, the cry of the sentry, citizen, coating, the incivility of bailiffs
and official, have sufficed to introduce their ideas in any reform policies consideration.

Unfortunately the police officer had taken far his suspicions. Delivered the passport, could
not indicate his principal that he had submitted a sugeto of who suspected, according to the
sign, was not one of those who sought the authority. Somehow, in the act of climbing D. To the
coach Marcelino is arrested, taken to jail, and there is forced to spend a few days, but suffice
to liberate the vehement presumptions that its offer for a very decent
and comfortable attire, a well-nourished body and a face timid.

No more was needed to come crashing down with a crash convictions absolutist, and some crumbled
with the business of the passport. The capture sudden, it prison uncomfortable, heavy and fussy and
offensive of interrogations, and sufficient too many to output D. Marcelino from prison with
his rejuvenated liberalism, with its fondness rights to the table with his hatred of arbitrariness,
with its aversion to military rule with their earnest desire for personal security and other constitutional
guarantees are truth. His political faith is very much alive today, as he firmly, waiting for
come another election, or a day of noise scared him racing and street cries. It will be difficult to
resist new beliefs so hard to test.

§ V.

Anselmo. His variations on the death penalty.

Anselmo, young amateur to the study of high matters of legislation,
just read an eloquent speech against the death penalty.

The condemnation of the irreparable innocent, the disgusting and awful of punishment, even
if they suffer the real culprit the futility of such punishment to remove or lessen the crime,
everything is painted in bright colors, with superb strokes, all accented with poignant descriptions
with anecdotes to shudder. The young man was deeply moved, to imagine that meditation, not
does more than feel, think as a philosopher who judges, when there is more than a man compassion.
In his opinion, the death penalty is useless, and even if not unfair, it is quite futility to
make your application highly criminal. This is a point where society should give serious thought
to free himself from the cruel custom generations have left you less enlightened. The convictions
of the new adept nothing left to be desired, combine them social and humanitarian reasons,
apparently, nothing was able to move.

The young philosopher speaks on the matter to a magistrate of deep knowledge and extensive experience,
who believes that the abolition of the death penalty is an unattainable illusion. Develops
first principles of justice as it is based, painted in bright colors the dire consequences that
would result from such a step, portraying heartless men, making fun
of any other penalty that was not the last execution, recalls the
obligations of society in protecting the weak and innocent, sometimes
referred to as disastrous highlight the cruelty of evil and suffering
of the victim, the heart of the young and experience new impressions,
a holy indignation raises his chest, the zeal of justice inflamed
him, his sensitive soul is identified and elevated with the magistrate,
is proud Mastering the feelings of unjust compassion, of sacrifice
on the altar of the great interests of humanity, and imagining and
sitting in court clad in toga a judge, it seems that the heart says
"yes, also know to be fair, also know overcome yourself, so you would
know, if need be, to obey the promptings of your conscience and with
hand on heart, and your eyes on God, to pronounce the fatal sentence
in gift of justice.

"

§ VI.

Some remarks to ward off evil influence of the heart.

Nothing is more important to think that penetrated the changes that occur in our view, the disposition
of mind in which we find ourselves. And here lies the reason that us is so hard to overcome
our time, to our peculiar circumstances, to concerns of education, the influence of our interests,
hence should be makes us so hard to act and think according to the requirements of the eternal law
to understand what the region rises above the material world, to postpone this to the the future.
What is before our eyes, what affects us today, here are commonly decide what our actions and even
our opinions.

Who wants to think well, we need to get used to be much about herself, constantly reminding
this important truth needs to get used to concentrate a lot to ask often: "Do you have the
courage enough alone? Are you not troubled by a passion that you presents the different things
than they are themselves? Are you possessed of some secret affection without shaking violently
your heart dominates him gently, through a fascination that no notice? In what we now think,
judge, forecast and speculation, "perhaps under the rule works some recent posters that disrupt
your ideas, shows you upset the objects? few days or a few moments before, did you think of
this? How long have you changed auándo your opinions? Not since a pleasant or unpleasant event,
favorable or adverse, have changed your situation? Have you shown more on the subject, has
acquired new data or just have new interests? What has occurred, reasons or wishes? Now you are
agitated by a passion, Lord, for your affections, judge in this way, and your opinion I think
it is right, but if the fancy takes you to a different situation, if you expect some time has
elapsed, if things Guess you will be presented in the same light, with the same color? "

Do not think that this practice is impossible, everyone can try it
from my own experience and will be seen that serves admirably to guide
the understanding and fix the behavior.

Not so common to get such high exaltation of our affections, which
completely deprive us the use of reason, for such cases there is nothing
to prescribe, for then there mental alienation, whether temporary
or permanent.

What are the passions ordinarily is obscure our understanding, turn
the trial, but not blind at all that, or removed this.

Is always at the bottom of the soul a light is dimmed, but not off, and the shine more or less in
critical times, largely depends on the habit of meeting to it, to reflect on our situation, know
doubt our ability to think While in the act of not taking the sparks of our hearts for enough
light to guide us and to consider that are not themselves but to dazzle.

§ VII.

The friend turned into a monster.

That passions blind us is a trivial truth, that nobody know. What we lack is not vague and abstract
principle, but a continuing warning of its effects, knowledge practical, detailed, disorder
that produces malign influence on our understanding; what can not be acquired without hard work,
without lengthy exercise. The examples given more above demonstrate quite the truth as I am
concerned exposure, however I will not rinse it with some other useless.

We have a friend whose good qualities we love, whose merit we hasten to commend provided the
opportunity given to us, and whose affection towards us we can not doubt. Niéganos one day we
ask a favor, not interested enough in the person you recommend ever receive us coldly responds
with surly tone, or give us any other resent. From that moment we experienced a noticeable
change in the opinion about our friend, maybe a whole revolution. Neither his talent is so clear,
and their willingness as straight or as smooth their nature, nor his heart as well, or your dealings
so sweet, and its presence so affable, in all we find that correct, to amend, in all we were wrong,
the release that affects us has removed the veil, has removed us
from the illusion, and fortune if man model does not suddenly has
been transformed into a monster.

Is it likely to be both our deception? No: it is yes to love them before we do not showed her spots, and
that our current resentment or exaggerates the fakes. Perchance not thought possible that
the friend could refuse to pay a favor, or misbehaves in a business, or in a bad mood when
you forget your ordinary kindness and courtesy? Certainly that this was impossible in our eyes, if
we had asked about the particular we responded to was a man, and therefore was subject to weaknesses,
but this not reduce their excellent qualities. For now, why so much hype? The reason is patent,
we feel hurt, and who thinks, who judges, not the enlightened understanding with new data, but
was angry, exasperated, perhaps bent on revenge.

Do we want to see what it's worth our new trial? behold a very simple
means.

Imagine that the launch has not gone bad with us, but a person who
we are indifferent; even when the circumstances are the same, even
when relations between the offender Friend and the offended person,
are so warm and close as those between him and us, "Indeed we will
draw the same consequences?

It is certainly not: know he has done wrong, maybe we will tell you with freedom and integrity,
perhaps we will have discovered a bad quality of its kind that we had hidden, but why not let others
to recognize clothes that adorn not judge him worthy of our appreciation, we will pursue related him
with the same ties of friendship. No longer will a man that has nothing laudable, but a person
endowed with much good, is subject to evil. And these changes in view happen even if the friend
really guilty, even forgetting the very easy our passion or interest
we have unfortunately blinded, making atendiésemos not to the grave
and just reasons which have led to act the way we scold, background
without making us knew very well, we conduct we have observed, in
order to disrupt our view so that a very fair proceeding reasonable
and we have seemed the height of injustice, treachery, ingratitude.

How often we would be sufficient to correct our view, watching the thing in a spirit of appeasement;
as a business that we are not interested!

§ VIII.

Thoughtful changes in political trials.

Are you guys in power our political friends, or those that but we agree, and give some orders
contrary to law? "The circumstances, we can more than men and laws, the government can not always
conform to strict legality, sometimes as much legal is the most illegitimate,
and also, so individuals and peoples, and governments have conservation
instinct that overrides everything, a necessity, to whose presence
give any and all rights considerations.

"The violation of the law have you done with smoothness, bluntly confessing and apologizing
to the need? "Well done, say, the frankness is one of the best garments of any government, what
good is it to deceive people, and working to govern with fictions and lies? "Have you tried
not to break the law? but it has been avoided with a reverie futile, must be interpreted openly opposed
to the mind the legislature? "The occurrence has been happy, say, at least as deep respect shown
to the law, which denies or is not in the last extremity. The law is sacred, against which we
must not ever attempt, not recently, the government can not save bottom, left intact the forms.
If there is something arbitrary, at least not being presented the irritating rod of despotism.
This is precious to the freedom of peoples. "

Men of power are they our enemies? The case is very different. "Illegality was not necessary, and besides,
even if it were, the law is above everything. Where are we going to stop, if it gives governments
the power to break it, when it deems necessary? This is equivalent to authorize the despotism ruling
violates any laws, saying that the infringement is justified by urgent and undeniable. "

Should the government has openly admitted the infraction of the law? "This is intolereble,
exclaimed: This is adding insult to the ticket, even had seized on some Thin costume ... is
the last point of impudence, is the most ostentatious of arbitrariness disgusting. Is seen, beating
out not be necessary in rodeos, but he did not autocrat of the Russias. "

Has the government sought to save the forms, keeping some semblance of legality?