 Raised with the utmost devotion, shy and quiet, without a care in costumes and
headgear, fashion and without any self-assurance in his manner and conversation, the marquise was
declared sick unjustly stupid and ugly. It was neither the one nor the other. Do not be ashamed,
but it could boast who were to have it for you. And verily was then in this town and court of
Madrid, quite a few ladies of high crest, whose talents and whose beauty were much lower than
those of the marquise, but completed with the carefree lack or scarcity of such high qualities
and great passion instilled a thousand were heroines amorous adventures.

Marriage, a Christian considered assumes no love story, however sensitive and clean it. It
is rather a contract, purified, sanctified and sanctioned by religion, whose primary purpose is
the foundation of families, children education and conservation lineages. So fulfill a duty to
marry and enter religion. This proves that can the righteous and pious person to serve God in
any state. Well understood Don Jacinto. Worthy of his family and the family arranged for the wedding
marquise both. Hardly saw them and barely spoke three or four times, enough to recognize there
was no reason for them to be repugnant to each other, but on the contrary, mutual satisfaction, the
smugness of having to consort with a person of noble presence and full belief in the immaculate
reputation of that person, all coincided with the convenience of interests and views which were in
the projected marriage, whose concerts intervened more than anyone the father Athanasius.

In sum, Don Jacinto marquise married and poor gentleman who was transformed
into rich gentleman called, but somehow he could still be called poor
in spirit, possessed wealth as if they possessed, took care of his
wife's considerable property, more like jealous administrator as the
owner and master of them, since his death, which was not late, because
died at thirteen years after the wedding, so had increased the flow
of home with his tact and economy, that of the marital property that
he could stop playing and left about three thousand ducats a year
to each of her four children.

I who write these notes, I am the youngest of them. I say nothing of me because I deserve anything;
but I will say of my three brothers who all are very handsome, understanding and capacity for
the profession still, and my sister is the charm and gala of the court, who ponder and praise
all for his gentle and honest treatment, by his intelligence and beauty, honoring and glorifying
and the noble house as head and mother came years ago.

Sufficient prevention look without all this, even without other evidence, to understand the Marquis
and Marchioness really loved, because the link cold and mere compliance a duty, not born ever
so lucid and generous offspring.

This is assured, I will declare and explain here what was the conduct of the Marquis in his relations
Maria Antonia Fernandez, and how this behavior, although in some points worthy of censure, only
in a time of embarrassing loss did not stop and reconciled with respect
to the actual and holy love which he dedicated to his wife, the Marchioness.
