 Even with the car I've ever known.

- We do not speak ill of her.

- Not to speak ill. Let's see ...! Which is bueycencia talk shit, Madam President of ministers.

-
Me?

- Yes ... Your Eminence, Grace is what has been said that the Benina sisaba, so that not true,
because if Sisera did, and if I had not come to ask.

Take that.

- For Boconó you have to condemn you.

- No one is condemned by Boconó, but rich, mostly when you remove the alms to the poor good law,
those who are hungry and sleep in the open.

- Hey, we're in the house of God, ladies - Elisha said banging on the floor with wooden leg -.
Keep respect and decency for one another, as mandated by the Holy dotrina. "

With this came the gathering and tranquility that the vehemence of some altered so often, and either
order groaning and yawning pray they spent their sad hours.

Now it must be said that the absence of the Sena and blind Benina Almudena was no accident that
day for which there are explanations of an event that deserves mention in this true history. They
left two, as has been said, one after another, unlike a few minutes; but as the old woman stopped
at the gate for a while, talking to Pulido, the blind Moroccan joined
him and both went away together through the streets of San Sebastian
and Atocha.

"I stopped to chat with Polished wait, friend Almudena. I have to talk to you. "

And seizing him by the arm affectionate request, handed from one sidewalk
to another.

Soon gained the Urosas Street, and standing on the corner, safe from
cars and passers-by, again to say, "I have to talk to you, because
you can only get me a big commitment; yourself, because other knowledge
of the parish to serve me anything.

"You find you? They are selfish hearts of flint ... Which has, because it has, who does not
have, because no. Total, that will to die of shame, and if a hand
comes, rejoice in see a poor beggar on the floor.

"

Almudena his face turned toward her, and could even be said to be looked at, if you look at is direct
eyes toward an object, making them, since you have not seen, intent, and in some attention mode, as
sustained as ineffective. Squeezing her hand, said, "Amri, you know that he serve Almudena,
Almudena me, like Pierre. Amri, dicermi things you ... tigo things.

- Let's go down, and talk on the road. Are you going home?

- I do want you.

- It seems that you get tired. We very quickly. Is it all right for us to sit a while in the Progress
Square to talk peacefully? ".

No doubt The blind man said yes, because five minutes after they were seen sitting side by side
in the base of the fence surrounding the statue of Mendizabal. The face Almudena, an ugly expression,
dark citrine, with wispy beard, black as the raven's wing, was characterized mainly by the
excessive grandeur of the mouth, when he smiled, affected a curve
whose ends, replicating the loose skin of the cheek, got too close
ears.

The eyes were like sores and dry and insensitive, surrounded by patches sanguine; medium size, crooked
legs. His body had lost its graceful shape by the habit of walking in the dark, and spend long hours
sitting on the floor with legs Moorish folded.

Decency wore on, as his clothes, but old and full of dirt, did not
tear or damage which were not amended by a darned smart patches or
applications and patches.

She wore black boots, very pink, but perfectly seams and patches
defended habilis.

The bowler hat revealed dilated services different heads, to come
to lend at that, that may not be the last, dents felt they were not
such that would prevent the defense skull material covering.

The stick was hard and glossy, the hand that was holding him, nervous,
outside morenísimo color, throwing Ethiopic, white palm, his tone
and softness that resembled to a press raw hake, nails trimmed, the
collar at least dirty it is possible to imagine the miserable condition
of the unhappy and wandering life of His son.

"For what we were going,
Almudena - Benina Sena said, taking his handkerchief to put it back,
restless and nervous as a person who wants to ventilate the head -.
I have a serious commitment and you, nothing but you, you can get
me out of it.

- Dicermi it, you ...

- What did you think to do this
afternoon?

- At home me, mocha that JACER me: I wash clothes, sew
mocha, mocha patch.

- You are the breading man in the world. I have
not seen another like you