 I'll just say that most of life applications
are based on this principle: the simultaneous existence of two beings observed by dilated time, allows
to conclude that there also exist one another. Without giving to secure this rule, the common
man could not act, and the philosophers themselves would find more embarrassed of what may be
contained. Darian few steps more than the vulgar.

The 2 nd. rule is very similar to the first: it is based on the same principles, and applies to
these uses. The constant experience shows that chicken out of an egg, nobody even now has explained
satisfactorily how the liquor contained in the shell that is formed little body so admirably
organized, and even when science give the reason fulfilled phenomenon, the common people would
not know, and yet neither this nor the scholars are hesitant to believe that there a relationship
of dependency between the liquor and the chick, to see the small living, all we are confident
that preceded it that mass was presented to our eyes report and awkward.

The

generality of men, or better say, everyone completely ignore how attends the topsoil seed development
and plant growth, nor which is the reason why some land is better suited than others to certain
products; but he has always been so, and this is sufficient for establishing that a thing depends
another, and to seeing the second infer without fear of missing the existence of the first.

§
IV.

Observations on the relationship of chance. A rule of dialectic.

But the difference should be noted that the succession is observed only once, or repeated many. In
the first case, not only argues no chance, but even no relationship class, in 2 º. does not always
indicate dependence on cause and effect, but at less dependence a common cause. If the flow
and ebb of the sea had been observed that one that coincided again with a certain position
of the moon, could not be inferred that there was a relationship between two phenomena, but
remain constant expressed coincidence, physicists must infer that if one does not cause the
other, at least they both have a common cause, and thus are related
in origin.

Despite what I just said, have many reasons when branded a sophistic dialectic following reasoning:
post hoc, ergo propter hoc, after this, then why. 1 º.

Because they do not speak of a constant succession, 2 º. because even when you speak, this
succession can dependence indicate a common cause, not that one is because of that.

While it is noted, the same rule to attend to ordinary business, it is more general of what
might appear at first sight: we use it in the ordinary course of things, one's fate with regard to
nature. According to the object in question amending the application of the rule: in some cases
just an experience of rare, in others it requires more repeated,
but basically we are always guided by the same principle: two things
that always happen, a dependency has to others, the existence of a
indicated as the other.

§ V.

An example.

It's night and I see that on top of a mountain is lit a fire, to little time to burn, I notice
that on the opposite mountain overlooking a light shines briefly and disappears. This has left
after the fire on the opposite side, but here I can not infer that between the two events have
some relationship. The next day, I see again that goes on fire in the same place, and that just
shows the light. The coincidence of yesterday I had not even stopped, and my attention today,
but this may be a fluke, and not think about it anymore. The next day the same thing happens,
the suspicion grows that there is a signal.

For a month is verified the same; the time is always the same, but never lack the appearance
of light to burn some fire, then I do not doubt or The fact is dependent on the other, or at least
some connection between them, and no longer but I need to figure out what a novelty that I fail
to understand.

In such cases, the secret to discovering the truth, and prevent unfounded lawsuits, is to attend
to all the circumstances of fact, without neglecting any of negligible it may seem. So in the
example above, assuming that little power to fire is presented light, diráse at first sight,
it is not necessary to stand in the hour of the night, and neither If this time is on or not.
But in reality these circumstances were very important was because, according to the time, was more
or less likely to appear big fire and light; and being always the same, it was much less likely
that the relationship they had two events that if it had been mixed. An unwise not to notice
anything like that, alarmed the region with the intended signal, and would not fit doubt that
some criminals agree, be explained without difficulty robbery that happened this or that day,
they understand what he meant a shot that was heard in that quarter, and the authority would have notice
of the evil plot, when black and suspicions would fall on innocent families, behold explorers
sent to observe closely the mystery, could very well go back and laughing at the horror scared,
and deciphering the enigma in the following terms: "Very near the top where fire burns, lies
the home of the family A, which bedtime to a guard deliberately nearby, it is reported that
some loggers want to spoil part of the forest replanted. The Sentinel feels cold, and does very
well in non-light a fire to scare anyone, but is to secur the miscreants and rope. As this is fully
hour at bedtime often their neighbors, so does the family that lives in the B summit of the
mountain opposite. At the sound of the clock, lifting the actual owner of the fireplace says
to everyone: "let's go to sleep," and in the meantime he goes to a terrace which gives several
doors, and pushes the outside to test if the boys have closed properly.

As the good man is going to be collected, has in hand a candle, and HEOS mysterious light here
came out at the same hour, and disappeared shortly, coinciding with the fire and making it almost
passing thief who just tried to guard against thieves.

What should I do in this case a good thinker? See here. A little time on the fire appears light,
and always at the same hour, more or less, which is inclined to believe that a signal. The country
is at peace with this understanding should be wrongdoers. But overall is not likely to be,
because it is not always choose the regular one time and place at risk of being noticed and discovered.
Also that the operation would be very Long lasting a month, and these businesses usually rounded
off with a coup de main. For those houses are near A and B, families of good reputation that they
have gone to fact.

So it seems that there must be coincidence or pure chance, or if
there are signs, should be about business that does not fear the eyes
of justice.

Event Time is exactly as collected the residents of this earth, let's
see if this will not be that some tasks oblige one to light a fire,
and others to make the light.

§ VI.

Reflections on the previous example.

Reflecting on the above example, note that in spite of the sign no relationship or cause, which
itself had the two events, however somehow recognize the same origin: sonar bedtime. This will
check to see that the error was in assuming that there was something common in them, or think
that the coincidence was purely accidental, but that it appealed
to interpretations devoid of foundation, was sought in the intention
concerted people what was the simple effect of the identity of the
hour.

This observation shows on the one hand the wisdom that must precede the class determine in relation
to each other have two events, simultaneous or successive, but otherwise confirmed more and more
the rule given, that when the simultaneity or succession are consistent, they argue any link
or connection, or of the facts to each other, or both with a third party.

§ VII.

The reason of an act that seems instinctive.

Delving more matter, we find that the inference of coexistence or
succession of relationship between concurrent or subsequent events,
although it seems a fairly instinctive and blind, is the application
of a principle which we recorded in the depths of our soul, and that
We even unwittingly continued use.

This principle is as follows: "Where there is order, where combination,
there is cause to order and combined, the chance is nothing.

"Once in a match We can look as casual, ie unrelated, but still often
repeated, and we without hesitation: "here is link is no mystery,
does not reach much chance."

This checks that examine in depth the human spirit, are at hand everywhere kindly Providence has been
pleased to enrich our understanding and our heart with priceless treasures [6].

CHAPTER VII.

LOGIC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CHARITY.

§ I.

Wisdom of the law that forbids rash judgments.

The Christian law prohibiting rash judgments law is not just charity, but of prudence, and good
logic. Nothing is more risky than to judge an action, and above all the intention, by mere appearances,
the ordinary course of things has been so complicated events, the men are in so many situations,
they act by very different reasons, see the objects so differently, that often looks like a
great castle, which examined closely, and the presence of the circumstances is the most natural,
the most simple and fixed.

§ II.

Examination of the maxim "think wrong and miss."

The world believes provide a very important rule of conduct, saying "think wrong and error," and
imagine having amended in this way the evangelical morality. "It should not be too candid, we
are warned continuously, we must not rely on words, men are very bad, actions speak louder than words:
"as if the Gospel teaches us to be reckless and imbecile, as if Jesus Christ to encomedarnos
us to be innocent as doves, we do not been advised that we did not believe every spirit, that to
know the tree atendiésemos fruit, and finally as to the purpose of the wickedness of man, not as we read
in first pages of Scripture that man's heart is evil from adolescence.

The maximum pernicious proposed nothing less than ensuring the success with the malignancy
of view, is so contrary to Christian charity, as to sound right. Indeed, the experience teaches
us that man a liar but says much more truths than lies, and the more evil for many more good deeds
than bad or indifferent.

The man loves Naturally the truth and goodness, and not away from
them but when you drag passions and misguided.

Lies provide him a liar in any occasion in which untruthfully, create
further their interests or flatter their vanity foolish, but outside
of these cases, of course telling the truth, and speak like other men.

The thief steals the light gets out, the quarrelsome quarrel, when the opportunity presents
itself, stimulating the passion, as if they were continuous abandoned
their evil inclinations, would be monsters, his crime degenerate in
dementia, and then the decorum and good order of society would claim
imperiously they are above the treatment of their fellows.

Infiérese of these comments the wrong judge, not having the proper foundation, and take malignancy
guarantee of success, is as irrational as if having them in an urn many white balls, and very few
blacks, it said that the odds are out in Black's favor.

§ III.

Some rules for judging the behavior of men.

Fit into this matter carefully judicious rules, born of the wisdom
of the serpent and not destroy the innocence of the dove.

RULE 1 ª.

Should not be trusted in the power of ordinary men, tested very hard.

The reason is clear, very vehement temptations to resist demands firm and unblemished virtue. This
is found in few. Experience teaches us that in such extreme human weakness usually succumb, and
the Scripture warns us that whoever loves danger will perish in it.

You know that a reputable merchant is in the greatest distress, when everyone believes him
in position very unencumbered.

Your honor, the future of his family, are awaiting a operation fair bit, but very beneficial.
If you decide to it, everything is remedied, if declines, the fatal secret is disclosed, and
the total ruin is inevitable. What will? If the operation you can get hurt, precaveos time to
depart from a building while in a regular situation are not ruinous, is now beaten by a furious
hurricane.

You have news that two people amiable and beautiful figure, have stuck
very relations intimate and frequent, both are virtuous, and even
when there is no other reason, honor should be enough to contain them
in the proper limits.

If you have interest in it, take your party promptly, if not silent, not judge rashly, but pray
to God for both that sentences may not be useless.

You are in the government, the times are bad, the critical time, the dangers many. A your dependents
charged with an important place is besieged by a night and day enemy that has long bags. The
clerk is honored according to you it seems, has great because of you commitments, and is especially
enthusiastic about certain principles, and supports with much heat. Nevertheless, it will
be good to not lose sight of the business. You will make well in
believing that the honor and your convictions will crack with no dependent
the blows of a hammer than fifty thousand dollars, but you better
not probeis, if the consequences were mostly irreparable.

A friend
has made you great offers, and you can not doubt that they are sincere.
Friendship is old, many powerful titles, the sympathy of hearts is
tested, and height of this, there is identity of ideas and feelings.
Suddenly presented a business your friendship has to cost you face,
if you do not sacrifice is exposed to severe losses, to imminent danger.
For whatever might happen, resignaos to be a victim, fear that the
affectionate protests will remain unfulfilled, and instead of your
grief, you will be paid with a satisfaction as whining as sterile.

Are
watching an authority to bind, it wants to force an act of high significance,
can not access them without degradation, without neglect of duty more
sacred, without compromising interests of the utmost importance. The
judge is naturally straight, in his long career not known a felony,
and his strength is accompanied by some firmness of character. The
record is not bad. However, when you see the storm raging, that the
mutiny and up the stairs, when I hit the cabinet door to the bold
demagogue who has been in one hand the role to be signed, and another
a knife or a gun cocked, fear more about the fate of the business,
which for the life of the magistrate