 

The former province of vast proportions that had the name of Guyenne in the division French
policy, before the Revolution of 1789, had focused on large capital or to Bordeaux, but was divided
into small provinces whose names have disappeared from the official language. Of all the Guyenne
have come, in whole or in part, called the twelve départements: Ariege, Aveyron, Haut-Garonne,
Lot, Hautes Pyrénées, Basses-Pyrenees, Gironde, Landes, Lot, Lot-et-Garonne, Gers and Tarn-et-Garonne.
The region between the Bidasoa and Bayonne or the Adour, Gascony itself was so famous in France
for the bluff and cunning of its inhabitants, whose type Dumas and Maquet have embodied in his
famous D'Artagnan of Three Musketeers.

This region, like all nations bordering between different races, is very curious the mixture
of Spanish and French types, manifested in language, customs and other characters social. Thus, while
Bayona is a mixed city, where they speak simultaneously two languages ??and is the remarkable
fusion of the two peoples, the country from the Adour and Bidasoa offered throughout, but especially
in popular language, a mixture of Spanish, French and Basque, which is a very curious patois denaturing
three languages ??and is not easily understandable but for those who are least familiar two of
them.

Bayonne is one of the most beautiful cities in France, both for the interest that occurs social
promiscuity, for the beautiful groves of their surroundings, his situation between two rivers
(the Adour and the Niva) which have their confluence here, and give mixed aspect its fortifications,
its highly commercial nature of space and its modern and elegant buildings contrasting with some old
and its Gothic cathedral. The Niva divides the city into two parts, and also relies setentrional
on the left bank of the Adour river considerable notable and navigation. At the same time delay to the
right bank of the river's people Holy Spirit (about 6.800 inhabitants) that if Bayonne is part
of the point of view commercial and social, political belongs to Landes, separated by Adour
river of the Lower Pyrenees.

Bayonne (which has about 15,000 people) is the second center of population of the Netherlands-Pyrenees
since Pau, the capital, numbers about 16.500 inhabitants. As shown, Bayona is socially more than
21,000 souls, so that its commercial and industrial activity is very significant. It is mostly
a port of call or deposit for trade between France and Spain, both more crowded as it is paid
to speculations of smuggling. It is in that city begins extensive French railway network to the
east and north, and its importance will be much more when it completes construction of railways
and communicate to Bordeaux and Bayonne to Madrid by the provinces of Castilla, Navarra and
Aragon.

In Bayonne the passenger does not feel any artistic curiosity. This city, famous for the events
of Carlos IV and Napoleon in 1808, so fertile in huge results, do not call attention to any artistic
delicacy, but for their welfare and elegant appearance, vitality commercial and social fusion.
The splendid malls and villas and parks that surround it and are picturesque, the active movement
of people in the streets, docks and walkways and in the beautiful hotels and cafes full of travelers
(business or walkers), the number of steamers chimneys stand out among a multitude of sailing
vessels to berth the springs of the two rivers, the activity of the factories in the districts
less elegant, the mixture of languages ??through all the conversations, the appearance of public
buildings and houses modern, nice simplicity attached to the picturesque; and the incessant crossing
of the steps to come and go every time, direction Spain, Pau, Biarritz, etc., form a social
group that gives the type of Bayonne City no less funny and enjoyable as residence, interesting
from the point of view international economy.

Many countries in Europe and America are represented in Bayonne by vice-consuls or agents trade,
and the city is not only a center of imports and exports considerable but also the most valuable
industrial production in the department of the Basses-Pyrenees adjacent. The proximity of the
sea (6 km) gives the condition of port, to likeness of Bilbao, and therefore the advantage
of maintaining its vast rivers yards where boats are built and assembled vessels fishing for
cod. The main Indian exports of production consist of wines, spirits, turpentine, lumber (fir
and pine), leather, cork and the famous "hams of Bayonne."

Of the 1.282 miles of road that mediate between Paris and Madrid, 780 distances measured Madrid
to Bayonne, in 1859 he traveled by stagecoach. Faltábame a journey by rail of 502 kilometers,
from Bayonne to Paris. From the right bank of the Adour to the left the Garonne (Bordeaux) the direct
via touch in twenty-three stations away from Mont-de-Marsan (Capital of the Landes, with about 5,000
inhabitants), and across a region full of melancholy and in some parts of desolation. Ocean
is a forest of pine and spruce growing on sandy soil and usually sterile. Abound in the marshes,
where near the ocean and rivers, and with these insects, fevers and the thorns and weeds rough
to vegetate forever in the swamp. The French government has undertaken extensive there clearing work
and desiccation, not later than that sad country will make a safe area, fertile and prosperous.
Today only takes advantage of its vast land with the exploitation of forests firs and pines, which
are obtained strong values ??in wood, tar and turpentine. On the outskirts of Bordeaux on the
landscape is beautiful and the vast horizon, the valley of the Garonne appears in all its
splendor of culture, showing the plantation next to snuff grain and vast vineyards, which give
them such universal importance to the department the Gironde and circonvecinos.

I confess that I felt deeply moved closer to the affluent, liberal
and active Bordeaux.

He remembered the story of his famous Girondins in the French Revolution, martyrs of a political
religion whose ideas, whose deeds and whose sublime sacrifice had been interested vividly my
spirit and my heart, and whose fate has always seemed to me one of the most eloquent lessons that
history can offer to the peoples and parties in agitation.

       * * * * *

The splendid city of Bordeaux, situated at 457 kilometers southwest of Paris, is bases both banks of
the beautiful river Garonne, 96 miles distant from its mouth in the Atlantic or is in the great
Bay of Biscay. The most advantageous position thanks to the easy navigation of that river (which is one
of four first-order in the interior of France) has naturally Bordeaux a privileged city, whose
river-sea situation corresponds to that which has In the lower Loire Nantes, Rouen in the
lower Seine and, to a lesser extent, in Lyon in the Rhone. Its shipping services to everyone,
and that railroads have sought towards Spain, the Mediterranean and the interior of France, have given
universal significance, in competition with Marseille, Nantes and Le Havre, Bordeaux are with
the largest ports French empire.

A very quick and succinct description of the general conditions of
this affluent metropolis trade in southwest France, will suffice to
estimate their value to those who only know universal reputation for
its wines and spirits.

Bordeaux is divided by the Garonne into two portions. The most significant, the Bordeaux itself,
the historic city, immediately to the south-eastern margin. In the opposite lies the affluent suburb
of Chartrons, may be called the huge store-cellar in Bordeaux. From the top of the city, where
the vast construction yard naval, to the bottom of the lower extremity, where is the grocery store
of marina, the river describes a five-mile arc of development, which corresponds convex side
paute to the old city. This whole trip is the port of Bordeaux, which can 1.200 contain ships of
all sizes (up to 600 tons), apart from the fleet of large ships which discharge all or part of
their cargoes at the auxiliary port of Blaye, located far below. The river is in the city the average
width of 600 meters, measuring up to 660 front Square-royal arms
at the middle of the arc.

Bordeaux, Burdigala of the Romans, is an
ancient city and even of unknown origin of interest in every respect.

Its population alone (112,000 souls) is equivalent to more than the sixth part of what makes
up the Gironde department (600,000 inhabitants), that is capital. Its great antiquity, its historical,
political and commercial, and genius liberal and progressive of its inhabitants, have provided
the conditions do make a city monumental in every way. There are meeting to the remains of Roman
works Gothic monuments, the Renaissance and the later period, and characterizing trends of the
nineteenth century.

The great Bordeaux is well divided by the vast and beautiful street-Red
Hat (Chapeau Rouge) that, based on the bank of the river, marks the
south side of the old and modern north.

That, without being disgusting like most ancient neighborhoods of generality French cities,
is much different, highlighting the splendor of the neighborhoods new. In the early portion
of the workshops are crowded, many factories, shops trading in its main body and all that means work
and occupation exclusively. In the modern portion of the splendid streets are worth or capital
rivals the best European the grand buildings, hotels seem palaces, sumptuous cafes and stores
luxury and fashion, the magnificent walks shaded by trees, fountains and elegant clean and beautiful
squares.

On the other bank of the Garonne, the district has concealed its background CHARTRONGES irregular
factories, warehouses, quarries and everything is always a suburb,
for the most beautiful and facade that can be vast.

Such is the huge row of elegant houses over three hundred that seem palaces, edging around
the boardwalk pier one on the other end of the city. These magnificent homes are the residences
of the princes of the pipes and bundles, which constitute the commercial aristocracy of Bordeaux.
Each of these buildings, which its top is home to the dealer, contains in its underground cellars
or accessory a huge reservoir of pipes of wine and spirits, the number usually reaches 1.000. Bacchus
is resigned to having their empire in the darkness underground, consoling himself with the
safety that this rule is universal.

You can ensure that, after Paris, Bordeaux is the most beautiful and splendid capital of France,
and is also one of the most beautiful in Europe.

Everything is in the bulk or the whole characters city of affluence, of the activity, good taste and
cleanliness of the Elegance in the forms of liberalism in the ideas and customs, artistic feeling
harmonizing with the spirit of speculation. Bordeaux's population has remained at all times
the traditions of the Great French Revolution, and their trends are, like the Parisians, Lyons and
Marseilles, decidedly democratic and republican. The press do Bordeaux (notably well served and
supported by more than sixteen presses) exerts a considerable influence in France, as it is possible
that the departmental review to be felt before the absorbing pressure and formidable reputation in Paris.

Rather
rare in the genre of Roman architecture and is preserved in the monumental ruins Bordeaux Palace-Ombrière
Gallienus and of calling attention and delight the outdated or archaeologists. Among the buildings
of the Middle Ages are notable: the Cathedral, a vast basilica that
if a lack of harmony in its Gothic structure (XIII century), surprised
by greatness of the central nave and the boldness of some of its forms,
the church of Santa-Cruz (the seventh century), Byzantine in origin,
but rebuilt by Charlemagne, the St. Seurin, of various styles and
very interesting.

In the modern genre (mixed and Renaissance) is remarkable the beautiful church of Our Lady (rebuilt
at the beginning of XVIII century) and in the Fuldenses draws attention the tomb of the celebrated
Montaigne.

As far as the pure Renaissance, its architecture is represented by very beautiful sights such
as the Great Theater, the Bourse, the Palais-real, Justice, Customs, the Museum and Hospital,
one of the best of its kind in Europe. Point to monuments Bridge the Garonne and the great theater
are works outstanding. The first is amazing for its size and robustness. It measures 486 meters
long and 35 latitude (13 and 1 / 2 of road and 11 and 1 / 2 of sidewalks)
and rests on seventeen huge arches and brick masonry openings which
allow movement of large ships and steamers.

It is one of the most magnificent bridges (perhaps the first of its kind) that has the French. The theater,
though less spacious than the famous Barcelona Milan and Naples, is the most beautiful of France,
on the inner and outer forms, and has few rivals in Europe.

The Museum contains an excellent library of about 120,000 volumes, a vast museum Very valuable natural
history and mineralogy collections and antiques. Gallery paintings, transferred to the Municipal
House (City Hall), is large and contains good pictures, mainly French and Flemish schools.

Besides many other important buildings, its beautiful public baths, splendid walks, its astronomical
observatory, botanical gardens and acclimatization, etc., Bordeaux
contains many excellent educational institutions and charities of
all kinds, which give the value of a European city at least second
order.

If attention is fixed purely commercial movement, the quays of the Garonne offer the greatest
interest. A huge forest of masts populates the waves of the river, Waving the flags of all
nations world trade on ships of shapes and dimensions that feed multifarious change universal.

Along the embankments on either margin remains an extraordinary movement cars and goods, and
while there, the porters swarm in incessant activity, thousands of sailors call the attention
from the river, with their schemes and developments at the top of the masts and spars. If the
vast quarries of construction (or shipyard) stirred an entire population of carpenters, manufacturers
of cables, etc., where numerous dams and extensive rest ships hull, leading to a movement no less
important. Apart of the many ships belonging to owners of Bordeaux, making foreign trade and maintain
communications and international coastal sea, constantly weapon Bordeaux
numerous expeditions for whaling and cod.

Many small Steamers navigable river up and down the Garonne in Bordeaux, while others make the
largest shipping heading to Spain and Portugal, England, Germany, etc., and a line of powerful
steamers is already ongoing relationship to Bordeaux with the main ports of Brazil and the
Republics del Plata.

The industry in Bordeaux is completely analogous to that of Marseille, with its notable addition
spinning cotton and wool, knitwear and printed calico, large foundries, etc. Apart the enormous
centralization of wines called "Bordeaux," which the whole world knows, the city ??has large sugar
refineries and nitro, vast distillation of liquors, vinegars, smelling water, oil, etc., a
strong imperial tobacco manufacturing, large manufacturing chemicals and machinery and all that
is consequent to a major seaport. Agriculture in the Bordeaux regions (the Adour, Garonne, the Dordogne,
etc.) Is main elements of vineyards and grain, but also produces snuff (although terrible quality,
and subjected to disastrous restrictions), flax and many other items
of no small importance.

Consulates in Bordeaux reside almost all trading nations.

In closing remember these rapid indications that Bordeaux was the birthplace not only of Gensonné,
Ducos, Fonfrede and others of the famous Girondins, but other celebrities, such as the rare Montaigne,
the fruitful and a great thinker and observer Montesquieu, Ricardo II of England, the British
general as famous under the name "Prince" Black "Pope Clement V, etc. Bordeaux is also notable
for the evidence of religious tolerance contains in its synagogue and the temple of Protestants.