 

Anyway, it is absurd to aim for as complete originality is not enough, for example, and remember nothing
of a Spanish novel to those already in the same genre have been written in other nations. Our aspiration
should be limited to that if something is imitated, imitation falls on an original base of his
own, and in habits, passions and characters representing as style and language that expresses it.
Matter that the characters, events, fields, cities and other places where the scene is set as
indicated in the action, displayed or copied taken immediately from nature, not the favorites,
come strange land to be the subject of our admiration and enthusiasm.

Complying with these conditions we have already enough novels, and every day brings new and
made by new authors.

In the midst of our political prostration, and despite the disagreement of opinions and interests
continually threaten us, disturbing the repose and serenity of the spirit, if not yet succeeded
in producing very serious and deplorable riots, good sign is that the activity fruitful intellectual
display reconcentrated in Spain and not in Madrid, but widespread
on Peninsula.

I do not like that political regionalism, we welcome and applaud in literature. I prefer many
light sources to one, by the splendor that has that glow in the center that spread everywhere.
For this to preserve the national character and do not deny it, the appearance of the works
of genius in various cities and regions is evidence that life was
not included in the center, but everywhere give account of himself,
showing ubiquitous and varied without breaking the unity of the whole.

In the last century our mental fertility was evident in the parliamentary eloquence of that not
a little abused, and in the theater and lyric poetry, satire and narrative.

On this day I think we're a little tired and disillusioned with public speaking, and I think
that, if poetry must always be written, the abundant crop of them has been we have tired, if not
tired, and I do not believe that the Floral Games, which in many
places are often held, worth to renew a love of poetry, so vehemently,
for example, in the Age of Romanticism, nor worth nor souls to awaken
a new poetic inspiration, powerful and brilliant.

The propensity of those who write in the day is to the novel.

And far from being sterile is propensity, each time producing estimable works, leaving hope
for the future other seasoned and less imperfect.

I would like to here news of quite a few novels that I recently received and read, but comparisons
are odious, the trial can be fallible, blinded by the degree of friendship that the authors join
us, and this made me flinch and almost will not let me here the question later novels, and that
the judge and compare.

Suffice to say that not a few are read with pleasure, which are simple and elegantly written,
and perhaps more moral and more entertaining those which the authors either have not read many
novels French and English or they forget them when make your own.

Of novelists and popular and accredited veterans, so to speak, I will not word to say here.
Neither Perez Galdos, and Pereda, and Picon, or the same P. Coloma, who published Recently an interesting
new book, let alone Mrs Ms Emilia Pardo Bazán, need anyone call public attention on his writing.
It might be useful criticism impartial approving the beauties they contain, and noting the
faults as every human should have, so that novice writers avoid them and do not engage in them.
But as hard work is not for me. On the day more than ever I feel helpless for both, and I
acknowledge also that I lack sufficient authority. Or abatement encouragement,
very natural in old age, disappointment or reasonable and fair, I
see such errors in my own work, which I dare not censor those whom
the vast majority of my gives fellow applause and laurels