 The same is true
with the scene, wonderful land, Palestine, the kingdom of Navarre, the rule Great Khan's palace
of Macedonia, not only ignores and misrepresents the surface of the land but also the planetary
system undergoes a radical change. Palm trees grow and tamarind around Moscow, Palestine and
Macedonia are covered with meadows and Norway and Switzerland, appear whales in the Mediterranean.
Events that begin a morning in Macedonia, they end up in the most natural on the evening of
that day, in a palace Babylon, and a princess of Aragon, caught in the evening in Sicily,
half discusses night without an interpreter with a Moor in Samarkand.

The Passion, a work in verse in different Filipino dialects, is not only the Passion of Christ
but includes a kind of short of sacred history.

Novenas are booklets devotees dedicated to a saint whose favor is invoked to obtain This or that
God favors. Consist of a set of sentences with regard to miracles and reflections on them
are made every day for nine consecutive days. "It is attributed to the Virgin Mary the origin
of the ninth, because she worships the number nine in memory of having been nine days which was
prevented for the Incarnation of the Divine Word and also for the nine months brought in her
virginal womb. "(Novena to Jesus, Mary and Joseph.

Manila, 1903, in the Exordium.)

Novenas offer a means of reaching the sky very simple what is asked them to patron saint. If
you get to win the sympathy and support of the employer or employers whose mediation be sought, they
can get everything, both in regard to our earthly life the future. It is an easy, it's like a
magical ceremony with its ritual consists of praise and humiliation, devotion, submission, awe,
and other manifestations propitiatory to win the sympathy and protection of the saint, then
follows the list of favors requested and are always met by God, as demonstrated by numerous examples that
the ninth lists carefully. All novenas are published with ecclesiastical permission, after
the prelate censorship review carefully the letter to see if there is something contrary to the
moral, healthy habits and absolute orthodoxy.

In a word, all are printed "With the necessary licenses."

The miracles mentioned in these novenas fits very well with the spells, magic and spells of
the early Filipinos who invoked the propitiation of divinities heathen, through ceremonies, sacrifices,
spells and incantations executed by their mangkukulam, babailanas
and other magicians, priests, healers, sorcerers and soothsayers they
refer to and list the ancient chronicles written by missionaries in
the Philippines.

Replacing the "hidden powers"

All the fear of the mysterious and the belief of the Filipinos in hidden powers removed health,
attracting misfortune, gave the victory and led to the disaster, was retained changing only the
spirits that governed life events and phenomena nature.

Patron Saints recommended by the missionaries came to replace the Anitos representatives of their
ancient ancestors, who were involved in their ancient idolatry in all circumstances of life.

When the missionaries preach their religion, condemned the ancient pagan superstitions, But a
new superstition taught more powerful than the original, not only for prestige new employers
all members of a heavenly court organized as an aristocracy terrestrial
and led by God the Creator of the World, but to use to communicate
with your God in the same language that is spoken by the people, the
Latin language, which priests raise their prayers and sang their songs.

Incantations

The Oremus, the Laus Deo, Agnus Dei, Deo Gratias, Nos cum prole pia, Benedicat Virgo Maria
Per omnia secula seculorum, eleyson Kyrie, Christe eleyson, fell into the category of spells
known by the names of Bolong and Mantala of primitive mangkukulam, manhihikup, mananangisama, etc.
etc., of the Gentiles Philippines. All of these Latin phrases reached a prestige so great that it looked
as irresistible to conquer invocatory formula God's will and is even
used to label any sect ridiculous as the Colorum, whose name comes
from the mispronunciation of "secular seculorum" ending many sentences
with Latin incomprehensible but used by the ignorance of many.

Agnus Dei qui phrase Tollis peccata mundi is used as a spell in which each word incomprehensible,
has a sacred character so that if anyone says that despises Qui Tolis, would be regarded as a blasphemer,
because the Qui Tolis is sacred, divine. A child, after praying the Trisagion, said in protest:
"It annoys me so much Kirileson (Kyrie Eleison). "His mother then punished him by making fun
of God.

Another child came Qui Tolis call a dog corrects her aunt saying,
"I never put the name of God an animal.

"

Array of magical invocations

All this constitutes a veritable arsenal of magical invocations, whose effectiveness relies to
prevent evil, free from danger, make a good, achieving grace. As an example the virtue of the pleas
and what can be achieved by simply saying frequently Jesus, Mary, Joseph, who is the "Holy Trinity
of the Earth," are the following cases: (Ninth of Jesus, Mary and Joseph. Manila, 1903). A man
of bad life going in the middle a night in front of a church in San Francisco in Cuzco, Peru,
saw lights in the cemetery and, realizing that it was a funeral, went to the scene to witness.
Suddenly he perceived that there was a throne on which Jesus was sitting in the middle of
Mary and Joseph. Then along came many demons each with his book in his hand. One began its case
against a woman of evil life of Buenos Aires. "Jesus says the ninth She spoke out against the
death sentence along with sudden and eternal damnation. " (P. 7.) Missing the devil to go to
execute the sentence. Another demon read his book In Chile there was another prostitute. "Jesus
spoke against her death sentence and condemnation. "(p. 8.) The devil ran to serve his sentence.
The defendant filed lead to a poor man living in Cuzco, and this was precisely the same man
who stopped to witness the spectacle of the cemetery. "By going the just judge to pronounce
against him sentence of death and damnation, Mary and Saint Joseph knelt before the Divine
Master asking for it, claiming he had often relied on their most holy calling names thereunder
* * *. "Having Jesus denied his forgiveness, his parents returned beg, and seeing that failed
to soften for forgiveness, the Blessed Virgin Blessed showed his son the breasts that had suckled,
and showed him the Holy Patriarch hands that had supported his work.

"(p. 8.) Jesus then pardoned by a grace that can only be called stomach
grateful.

Great incentive for crime!

The invocation, "Jesus, Mary and Joseph," acting as a magic formula, he saved that man, had not made
more meritorious than the flatter the vanity of the "Trinity of the Earth." There is in the
same novena one CONSIDERATION FOR THIS WONDERFUL and that to achieve the amendment of our lives,
in full view of the favor that were supported Jesus, Mary and Joseph
as devotee finished yet so sinful, it was necessary to imitate in
his oft-repeated invocation all the days of evil, "Jesus, Mary and
Joseph."

(P. 10).

The man had no other merit, nor is it advisable to have one, just say the magic invocation
and to act as he wants in security free from punishment. What a great encouragement to the crime!

Another
notable case

Another notable case of the effects of the invocation is a Dominican friar Fray Juan Masias who,
for over twelve years, being in his dark cell, in prayer, it came to him many demons and dragged
him and treating him badly pounded word and work, but that he was free from them saying: "Jesus
the Savior, Mary and Joseph are with me." Other demons were sometimes much crowd and noise and
taking him by the feet he drew dragging the bedroom to the cloister, a slap and beat him, others
stepped on his stomach and head, others scratched his face and threw out his eyes, but invoking
the names Jesus, Mary and Joseph, came and left him.

"(p. 14.) The most admirable is that the monk had suffered the invocation
after the abuses mentioned, so I had the condescension to allow the
demons for some time to have fun at his expense.

Economic Fun

At the same monk, "at other times of prayer going to church, demons caught him and pulled her,
and threw him into the air so high, passing over the roof of the hall Chapter House, which
divides the first cloister of the second, coming this fall. There he waited other demons and
receiving, throwing him again in the same way, giving to him again in the main cloister not get
a word of anger or suffering until invoking the sacred name of Jesus, Mary and Joseph, let him.
"(p. 15). Who, reading this, do not envy the friar as entertaining as a fun and economy? And
why not hell be grateful to receive it in the other yard, instead
of letting it crashed into the ground?

After relating the wonders mentioned others, read in the ninth the
following considerations: "What costs us accustomed work to repeat
our prayers the sweet names of Jesus, Mary and Joseph?

"(p. 27.)

Infernal power

Each step is amplified, magnified in these novenas infernal power. Not only puts the Devil among
the enemies of the soul, with our own body and humanity, but which always tremble with their
wiles, we consider weak to resist and even seem to fear that God himself does not know how to defend
the devil, because at every step fuel is God and put it on guard against the power of hell. "Assist
us enabling from heaven, our deliverer very strong in this struggle with the powers of darkness;
and as once freed the Infant Jesus of imminent danger to life, and
now stand God's Holy Church from the snares of his enemies and from
all adversity, and each us protect us with perpetual sponsorship *
* * "(p. 54).

(Offering to the Blessed. Rosario Manila, 1905.)

The Devil's obsession leaves no man day and night, "Mercy, my God,
I get hit the devil, all day challenges and disturbs me, "read a prayer
of St. Vincent Ferrer (His ninth, pg.

12).

Another miracle

The next miracle reveals the tricks of the devil and shows at the same time that souls can not be
as readily condemn the deadly comes to protecting a powerful patron. "True Man, it says on the Ninth
of San Vicente (p. 15), gave the devil his soul with signed card from his hand, and listening to
preach the Holy begged hiciese the devil is the restituyese.

Holy stood in prayer and brought the devil visibly and ordered him
to hand over the card to the man, witnessing this miracle many thousands
of people.

"

Simplicities of saints

This fear of the devil is mad because of some errors as mentioned in the following miracle (Nine of
San Vicente, pg. 18). "In Trayguerra hearing a simple young man preach San Vicente the ugliness
of evil, asked God to show him to quarrel with him. Happened to pass a poor old, born dumb, ugly
and poorly dressed, carrying a sickle in his hand. Judging the lad who was the devil, acometióla
furious quitóla sickle and reaped the hands, ears and noses. Cried the distraught woman, as voices
could not move, was howling and then the simple stabbed him, saying,
Come and see what put the devil.

"Believing that God allowed such infamy, is a gross insult to God. It is true that the act was running
a simple boy, but is simpler than the work of the Holy in speaking of the physical ugliness of
the devil, when, according to all understand, the devil is a spirit.

"In Taula, says the Ninth (p. 21), spent two Moors before an image
of San Vicente, one took off his hat, the other not.

Presto paid for it: for the moment, without knowing by whom, gave such a blow, which fell to
the ground, gave him a fever and she died. "It is admirable how he knew that was a slap, and
could not be more cruel miracle, not by the insignificance of failure,
as for being a Muslim or believe or understand that the Christian
superstition.

A devotee who resorts to Santa Filomena, asks your protection against the devil (Ninth, pg. 22)
and says: "Satan as a hungry lion, turn around; his ministers are encouraged each other to
break me, my weakness I am also the enemy of my very soul * * *. "

As I said, novenas serve to implore God's mercy using intervention
of a saint or the Virgin, and to get a need or a whim in life.

Nothing like having more encouraging news about the origin of the novena to St. Anthony of Padua
that " says was revealed by the Holy * * * and devotees can do it with great confidence to
achieve through them what they want.

"(Novena to San Antonio, Manila, 1909, pg. 5.)

"San Antonio revealed himself to his devout how to do it" (p. 6).

Who asks receives

The Maria de los Dolores (Manila, 1910, pg. 5), is "to get what you want in any claim either
the soul or body. "

The ninth of San Vicente Ferrer, "although it can be done at home, it will be much better in the
church because there who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, BY GOD SAYS THE SAME " (Page 5
of your Novena. Manila, 1917).

San Ramon Nonnato is "Master of the farmers and their livestock. A wonderful antidote against fever.
Universal refuge to heal all diseases and pain. Singular Protector of women who called him on his
dangerous deliveries, and the sterile, seeking comfort of their sponsorship. "Thus says the
cover of the ninth, Manila, 1918 .--" Only by invoking your name, to worship his holy relics,
and by drinking the water that passes by it, makes thousands the Holy wonders "(p. 6).

"I said a devotee, I have so much faith and experience in San Ramon, who I respect for their
environment asked God has given me everything, and for the truth, I swear and sign the above.
"(IX, pg. 15.)

A great virtue persuasive way to earn God's will and make it what
you want, is praying the Trisagion.

It seems that during a period of great upheaval geological and meteorological conditions experienced
in Constantinople in the year 447, occurred (Trisagion seraphic, Manila, 1889, pg. 7) that "a child
of tender years was carried by the air being eyewitnesses all campers, out of sight. After
a long period, returned to earth just as he had ascended to heaven, spoke in the presence of the
Patriarch the Emperor, all the wondering multitude, who had heard the angels sing this concert:
Holy God, Holy Mighty, Holy Immortal, have mercy on us. "The child
then died. The Emperor ordered that all sang a sacred song, and immediately
stopped earthquakes and quieted the weather disturbance. "Hence the
use of Trisagio as a form for invoking the Holy Trinity in dire and
fateful times "(p. 78.) Among other things called for in the Trisagion
restricted to the following: "In your anger and Anger: Three and Lord
deliver us - From the snares Triune God .-- From the snares and vicinity
the devil * * * of all anger, hatred and malice * * * Of plagues,
plague, famine, earthquakes * * * From our enemies and their machinations,
save us "(pp. 20-21).

Memories of cannibalism

Although Trinidad
is composed, as we know, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, and Trisagion
is invoked and calls on the three people at once, however, there are
other ways to achieve separately invoking divine favor to a single
person of the Trinity. Thus, the ninth of Jesus in the Eucharist is
called the Father through the intercession of the Son, or better that,
in just a viscera of the Son, an organ of his body, the heart, or
more properly, Sacred Heart of Jesus