 But I sleep more comfortable in it without the blanket
damask and embroidered sheets, mostly without the blanket.

- Man! Then why do you want the good things but for occasions such as this?

I took some odd jobs to make clear to my uncle, who took my slight
resistance, which you sleep better and more carelessly than among
lace and damask, single coverage under the we use every day mere mortals.

-
Well, nothing, son - he said to me at last -: first, your taste, and
that is to be done in this house while you are there ... A good part
comes, cuartajo!

... The quilt will be and how much it interferes with her in the bedroom. Here's a doormat
for your feet ... I think no evil will come to you at bedtime, because these old chestnut soils
are cold as they themselves ... Huh? For this lacenuca, or as you llaméis "there" at the head
of the bed to put the light on top and put in ... See? this ingredient, I do not think that out the
way ... nor is it armchair in the corner ... Come here, come here to see ... As we are mortal
and no free of trouble, and the nights are so long now, and so obscure and so Carrejo cold and mostly
you do not know ... In short, do not tell you more. Well then: here hangers, with their corresponding
overall, nailed to the wall ... and in the opposite empty cupboard, which you can put a clothes
shop ... I think, pispajo! that much you bring, between him and the dresser and hangers, with leftovers
you have to fit ... For your prayers, some use it as a good Christian you are, to go to bed
and leaving her behold, at the head of Our Lord on the cross, and benditera next, with its water
corresponding ramuco bay and blessed, if you want to sprinkle around the room, because the devil
does not rest one point, and slips through the eye of a lock. Here the washstand with all the
accoutrements of cleaning ... and still plenty of room for another much more ... And with that,
I said you're at home. What you trouble, out with it, if something you want and not have it,
ask for it, which, as you have at hand, yours will be ... And now I leave you in peace and your
widths. When finished, warns that we are in the kitchen.

And he was shaking the lantern in one hand and requiring the other shelter that is slipping shoulder,
but coughing a lot and breathing very anxious.
