 

Long Preamble is the former, but not too well, to state here that although I have not I read
Death and the Devil and Heresies, D. Gener Pompey has been careless and not regional ill-will,
and now, after reading the new book by the same author entitled Friends and Teachers, found that
its author is worthy of careful consideration and special applause. And even in number and short, having
no place or time for more, I will give here some news of the book, trying to enhance the high
ingenious thinker clothing, elegant and easy writer and learned and discreet person, who has shown
the author to compose.

To enjoy an author need not agree with him on the opinions and beliefs, let less be persuaded
by their reasoning. Often the opposite often happens, and so happens to me with the book of
D. Pompey Gener. I have much to applaud in this book, and very says little that convinces me,
though I applaud the enthusiasm, knowledge and ingenuity with which he says. By doing take given
my applause, and allow me to contradict some of the assertions I Mr. Gener, considering them completely
wrong, or that run into problems and comment on which half are in
compliance with the true and just.

Friends and Teachers is a collection of portraits and portraits of all French writers, least
one, Joaquín María Bartrina. Just be the eulogy that makes this unique Gener wit if not to enhance
it with odious comparisons, calling for wordy, confused and diffuse to other poets of Spain,
and assuming that fame should have to live in Madrid, and no doubt part of a society of mutual
praise. I can not agree with Mr. Gener in Spain is no stepmother and mother of his best sons,
whose merit is not confesses until foreigners recognize and proclaim him, and that, in contrast,
puts the clouds of mediocrity and even intriguing annulments. Were not and are nullity or mediocrity,
Quintana, Gallego, Espronceda, Zorrilla, Hartzenbusch, García Gutiérrez, Tamayo, Querol, Núñez Maple,
Ferrari and not a few others, still alive, and not owe their reputation, or to praise Madrid's
newspapers, or the discovery and the statement they have made their
Foreign critics assert.

Mr. Gener Create Bartrina not worth more on the concept that it is formed after read his visage,
that the concept Bartrina that had formed before that reading. Such clearer once the first
concept. I, for one, I can not reconcile that resembles Bartrina while the simple, elegant,
honest, classic and afectadísimo Leopardi, false Baudelaire and extravagant. In the only predicament
can enter both the three poets, is in being the three unbelievers, sickly, sad and desperate. In
all others differ greatly. And if we speak frankly and Bartrina Baudelaire remain well under the
infinite distance of Leopardi, one of the most admirable lyric poets
that have occurred in Europe in this century, so glorious and fruitful
in this kind of poetry.

The other portraits, as I stopped and pointed, are all French writers, and I can not but rejoice that
judicious criticism is used in them and make them available in Spain. I also welcome the passionate
affection and generosity with which Mr. Gener heaped with praise. I agree and have agreed
that France has always pleasant and rich literature, and that is fruitful and happy mother
of original and elegant writers, whose works are perhaps the most read and celebrated in foreign
countries, through which thought and language and to the feelings of the French imposed a predominance
among other peoples. But this hegemony of France in letters and arts, not only provides France
with foreigners fundadísimo credit, but dazzling prestige, which solicits and encourages more
admiration blind, the more hyperbolic praise and very often the awkward imitation of the worst,
fashion originating in what is written and what we think, as there are in what you wear and
ware houses. Guard against this matter and be warned. Hence perhaps Mr. Gener characters portrayed
in his book are priced at their true worth even if we lower one-third
of the praise lavished Mr. Gener them