 

The nurse disappeared in an instant and, before Adela could respond to her mother, appeared Mayoral
on horseback, preceded by his two gorgeous alanos, to give news in an assertive voice of everything
that had transpired. It was this tall man, thin, muscular, with dark skin, black eyes, curly
hair and fully bearded, whose wide whiskers and sideburns which covered both sides of his face until
reaching the corners of his mouth, making it looking even smaller. Even with the wide-brimmed
hat that he always wore, whether around town or in the house, outdoors or indoors, since he often
used the hat to sleep, when he took it off to speak with Don Candido you could see that while
his forehead resembled that of a white man, the nose, cheeks and hands no one would deny they
looked like those of a black man; so tanned were they from the sun. He came armed, like they
say, to the teeth, the tape machete, knife with silver blade or at least it shone like it was, and
the powerful whip, which was made of a segment of wild orange tree,
and was not weapon less terrible by being only forceful.

He began by saying: - Holy night to Don Candido and all your company.

I came to inform you that they have brought Pedro
with some bites.

He resisted and it was necessary to release the dogs. -Who captured
him? asked the Don calmly.

Don Francisco Estévez and his party gave orders to arrest untamed
blacks. -Do you know where they have captured him?

In the sugar cane plantations of La Begona, close to the mountains.
-Was he alone?

And his companions? Nothing is known of them, Don Candido, and Pedro
doesn't want to say either.

I would imagine it would be necessary to put pressure on him so he
can sing.

That is why I am coming
to Don Candido, so he may tell me how to handle Pedro.

He is very obstinant. -Where is VD.

Don Liborio? asked the Don after a long pause.

In the hospital. -He is that hurt? Not because of that, Don Candido. I have him in the cellar of
the hospital for security reasons, and he hasn't wanted to put handcuffs because of the injuries;
and I figured then he had bad intentions.

His eyes are two red tomatoes, and I've come to arrive at the conclusion
that when the eyes of a black man gets like that, they are up to no
good.

I
told the man that the black man was too enraged.

The man sure is a dog, when I put him in the cellar, he said, -a
man doesn't die more than once, and what -he was already tired of
working for his employer
