 

Later in the day, again tried to tow the vessel Pince Holy Trinity, but with so much success as
the previous night. The situation worsened, despite the continued time with equal force, which
had been repaired many faults, and believed that once quiet time, could save the town. The
English were very hard at it, because wanted to bring a trophy to Gibraltar by the largest ship
built so far. For this reason worked so hard at the pumps night and day, allowing us to rest
a while.

Throughout the day 22 the sea was churning furiously, taking and bringing the ship's hull if it were
flimsy fishing boat, and that mountain of wood proved the strong interlocking their solid frames,
when it did not break into pieces to get the tremendous hit wave. There were times, flattening
the sea, it seemed that the ship would sink forever, but swell the wave as the impulse of deep
turmoil, rose one her proud bow, adorned with the lion of Castile, and then breathed in the hope
to save.

Everywhere we discovered ships scattered, mostly English, not without faults and ensuring all reach
the coast for refuge. We also Spanish and French some dismasted, others towed by a boat enemy.
Marcial recognized in one of these the San Ildefonso. We saw floating in the water many of
the remains and debris, such as masts, mastheads, broken boats, hatches, pieces of balconies,
slides, and finally, we saw two marine unhappy, bad on board a big stick, were carried by the
waves, and would perished if the British did not immediately ran to help them. Brought on board the
Trinidad, came to life, which recovered after feeling in the arms of death, equivalent born
again.

The day passed between agony and hope, and we felt it was essential to transfer to an English
ship to save us, we thought it possible to preserve ours. However, the idea of ??being taken to
Gibraltar as prisoners was terrible, but to me, for men punctilious and stubborn as my master,
whose sufferings must have been unprecedented moral that day. But these painful choices ceased in
the afternoon, and the time it was unanimous the idea that if trasbordábamos not perish all
in the ship, which was fifteen feet water in the hold. Iriartea and Cisneros received this
news with calm and serenity demonstrating that there were great difference between dying in
one's home or being prisoners the strange. Continuous act began the transfer to the dim light
of dusk, which is not was easy, having precision of about three hundred wounded ship. The crew
sound consisted of about five hundred men were reduced figure to the 1115 individuals who composed
before the fight.

Began abruptly with the boat transfer from Trinidad, and the Pince of three other vessels of
the England squad. God's preference for the wounded, but though Seeking to avoid discomfort, it
was impossible to rise from her place without mortifying, and some shouted loudly demanded
to be left quiet, preferring death to a travel raged their pain. The rush did not give rise
to compassion, and were driven the boats so mercilessly thrown into
the sea as were the cold bodies of their comrades.

Iriartea commander and squad leader, Cisneros embarked on the boats of the officers English,
and my master having been invited to enter in them, he resolutely refused, saying he wanted to be
the last to leave the Trinity. This did not stop opposite it faded in me waves of patriotism,
which initially gave me some courage, and thought no more than save
my life, and it was not as out for this noble purpose the stay aboard
a sinking ship at times.

My fears were in vain, it still was not out half of the crew when a rumble sounded the alarm and dread
in our ship.

"What we're going to sink! ... The boats, the boats! "Cried some, while dominated all for self-preservation,
ran to the railing, looking with greedy eyes the returning boats. All work was abandoned, no
more thought of the wounded, and many them, and taken on deck, crawled through it with delirious
lost, looking for a gateway through which plunge into the sea. By hatches out a mournful cry,
still seems to resonate in my brain, freezing the blood in my veins
and ruffling my hair.

Were the wounded left in the first battery, which, feeling inundated by water already invaded
the place, cried for help I do not know if God or men.

In the latter asked for it in vain, for no thought but to salvation itself. They threw rushed to
the boats, and this confusion in the darkness of the night, was hampering
transfer.

One man, indifferent to such great danger, remained in the palace
without addressing to what was happening around him, and walked concerned
and thoughtful, as if those tables put your foot where they were not
requested by the vast chasm.

It was my master.

I ran to him, terrified, and said:

"Lord, that we are drowning!"

D. Alonso ignored me, and I still believe, if memory is unfaithful, that without leaving your
uttered words so alien attitude to the situation like this:

"Oh! How are you going to laugh Paca when I come home after this great defeat.

- Sir, the ship is sinking! "I cried again, not painting the danger, but asking gestures and voices.

My
master looked at the sea, the boats, the men who, desperate and blind, rushed to them, and
I looked with anxious eyes Martial, and called him with the full force of my lungs. So it seems
to me that I lost the feeling of what was happening, stunned me,
my eyes clouded I do not know what happened.

To tell how I escaped, I can not cover but in very vague memories, images like a dream, that
certainly took away terror knowledge. I looks like a sailor approached D. Alonso when I spoke,
and seized him with his vigorous arms. I felt myself transported, and when my clouded mind cleared
a little, I I saw a boat lying on the knees of my master, who had my head between her hands with
paternal affection. Marcial grasped the tiller, the boat was crowded.

I looked up and saw four or five yards away to my right, the black
side the ship, next to sink, for the gates that had not yet reached
the water, leaving a faint light, the lamp lit at dusk, and still
watched, guardian tireless the remains of the abandoned ship.

It also hurt my ears a few regrets leaving through the embrasures, were the poor wounded had
been saved and were suspended over the abyss, while those allowed to look sad light, communicating
with his eyes the anguish of their hearts.

My imagination is moved back into the ship: one inch of water no more missing to break the fragile
balance that he still held. How would witness these unfortunate growth of the flood! What they
say in that terrible moment!

And if you saw the fled on boats, if they felt the snap of the oars, with much bitterness groan their
troubled souls! It is also true that this atrocious martyrdom of all the purified guilt, and
the mercy of God filled the whole area of ??the ship at the time of dive forever.

The boat moved away, I kept seeing that big blob, but I suspect it
was my fantasy not my eyes, watching the Trinity in the dark of night,
and even thought to distinguish in the black sky a big arm coming
down to the surface of the water.

Was undoubtedly the image of my thoughts played by the senses.

-XIII-

The boat went ... Where? Marcial Not even knew where we were going. Darkness was so strong
that we lost sight of other boats, and the lights of the ship vanished Pince behind the mist, as
if a breath of been extinguished.

The waves were so thick, and the gale so hard that the boat was moving very little weak, and
thanks to the skilful guidance did not capsize more than once. All callábamos, and the more fixed
a sad look at the site where supposed to be our companions left struggling at the moment with
the terrible death agony.

Not end without making that journey, according to my custom, some reflections, is well I can
venture to call philosophical. Someone will laugh a philosopher of fourteen years, but I do not peatRich
to teasing, and I have the audacity to write my thoughts here then. Children also tend to think
great things, and at that time, before that show what the brain, so it were not an idiot, could
remain calm?

Well, in our boats were Spanish and English, though the greater the number of first, and was curious
to see how fraternizing, invoking each other in the common danger, without remembering the
previous day killed in horrific fight, more like beasts than men.

I looked at the British rowing as vigorously as ours, I watched in their faces the same signs
of fear or hope, and above all, the expression saint's own sense of humanity and charity, which
was the motive of each other. With these thoughts, said to me: "Why is war, my God? Why are these
men should not be friends at all times of life as they are in danger? This I see, is not proof
that all men are brothers? ".

But suddenly came to cut these considerations, the idea of ??nationality, that system of islands
that I had wrought, and then said, "But, this, that the islands have to want off each other a
piece of land, it will spoil everything, and indeed in all must have very bad men, who are the
ones who assembled the wars for private profit, either because they are ambitious and want to send,
either because they are greedy and crave to be rich.

These bad guys are those who deceive others, all these wretches who
will fight, and for that deception is complete, driving them to hate
other nations sow discord promote envy, and here you have the result.

I'm sure - I added - that this can not last: two to one to bet that soon the men of such agencies
islands have to convince you that make a great blunder arming terrible wars, and will a day
that will embrace, not to be agreeing to all but one family. "

So I thought. After that I lived seventy years, and have not seen
that day come.

The boat moved laboriously by the stormy Tues I think that Martial, if my master had allowed,
would have accomplished the feat following: push out the British and put forward to Cadiz or
the coast, even with the almost unavoidable chance of drowning in the crossing. Some of it seems
to me that my master said, speaking softly in his ear, and D. Alonso had to give a lesson in chivalry,
for I heard him say:

"We are prisoners, Marcial, we are prisoners."

The worst thing is that we could see no ships.

The Pince had moved away from where he was, no light indicates the
presence of a vessel enemy.

Finally, we saw one, and after a while the confused mass of a ship that ran the storm to windward,
and appeared in the opposite direction to ours. Some believed him French, others English, and
Marcial said he was Spanish. Forced the rowers, and not without we get to talk.

"Ship ahoy!" Shouted ours.

At once replied in Spanish:

"It is the San Agustín - Marcial said.

- The St. Augustine has plummeted - said D. Alonso -. I think it is the Santa Ana, which is also captured.
"

Indeed, to draw us all recognized the Santa Ana, commanded in combat by Lieutenant General Alava.
At once the British who were guarding disposed to lend assistance, and soon find us all safely on
deck.

The Santa Ana, a ship of 112 guns, had also suffered great damage, although not as severe such
as the Holy Trinity, and while it was dismasted in all its clubs
and rudderless, the helmet was kept evil.

The Santa Ana lived eleven years after Trafalgar, and even would have lived longer if by lack
of buoyancy would not have gone down in the bay of Havana in 1816. Its action in the days that
mean it was glorious. Mandábalo, as I said, Lieutenant General Álava, head of the vanguard,
which exchanged the order of battle, came to be in the rear. You know that the column commanded
by Collingwood addressed combat the rear, while Nelson went against the center. The Santa
Ana, covered only Fougueux by the French, had to fight with the Royal Sovereign and four British;
despite the inequality of forces, both suffered one like the others, being Collingwood the first
ship that was out of action, so it had to move Eurygalus the frigate. As reported there, the
fight had been awful, and the two powerful ships, which touched Penoles, were shattering for six hours
until General Álava than hurt, hurt Gardoqui commander, killed five
officers and ninety and seven sailors, with more than a hundred wounded,
had to give the Santa Ana Imprisoned by the British, it was almost
impossible to handle because of the bad and the furious gale that
unfolded on the night of 21, so when we went in he was in a position
rather critical, if not desperate, and floated on the waves, unable
to take direction whatsoever.

Since then I brought comfort to see that the faces of all those people revealed the fear of
impending death. They were sad and quiet is worth bearing with gravity
maturity and the embarrassment of being prisoners.

One detail I noticed also called my attention, was that British officers were guarding the ship,
or by far so accommodating and kind as well played by Trinidad aboard. On the contrary, of Santa Ana were
the gentlemen very sullen and unfriendly, and mortified in excess of ours, exaggerating their
own authority and making repairs to all with great impertinence. This seemed to upset a lot
to the crew captive, especially seamanship, and I even seem to notice alarming whispers that
have not been very reassuring for the British if they had heard.

Moreover, I do not refer incidents of navigation that night, of sorts Navigation wandering aimlessly,
at the mercy of the waves, without sail or rudder.

I would not, therefore, annoy my readers repeating facts already witnessed on board the Trinidad,
and step to tell others entirely new that will surprise you as much as it surprised me.

I had lost my love to walk around the waist and bow castle, and so, since I found aboard the
Santa Ana, I turned to my master in the chamber, where I could get some rest and feed, because of
both was much needed. There was, however, many wounded who was necessary to heal, and this occupation,
very pleasant for me, I allowed all the rest that my overwhelmed body demanded. Found myself engaged
in putting D. Alonso a bandage on his arm, when I felt a hand on my shoulder, I turned and faced
with a tall, wrapped in luengo blue cloak, and soon, as usual, did not recognize him, but watching
him with attention space of a few seconds, threw an exclamation of
surprise: it was the young D. Rafael Malespina, boyfriend of my mistress.

Clasped

D. Alonso with love, and he sat next to us. He was wounded in the hand, and so pale with fatigue
and loss of blood, completely disfiguring emaciation face. His presence in my mind was feeling
very weird, and I must confess all, although some of them do little for me. At some point experienced
a joy watching someone who has had emerged unscathed from horrific fight, a moment later the
old hatred that this subject inspired me woke up in my chest as pain that returns to haunt sleepy
after a period of relief. With shame I confess: I felt some regret to see him safe and sound;
discharge but also tell me that that pain was a sensation as a momentary
and fleeting lightning, black lightning true that obscured my soul,
or rather, slight eclipse light of my consciousness, which soon shine
with splendid clarity.

The perverse part of my guy took me over a moment, in a moment I also learned to silence it cornering
at the bottom of my heart. Can they all say the same? After this fight moral Malespina saw with
joy because he was alive, and shame because I was hurt, and yet I
remember with pride that efforts to show these two feelings.

Amita Poor mine! How great would be his anguish at the time!

My heart always concluded and filled with goodness, I'd run to Vejer to say, "Miss Dona Rosa, your
D. Rafael is good and healthy. "

The poor Malespina had been transported to Santa Ana from Nepomuceno, a ship seized also, where
such was the number of wounded, which was necessary, he said, handing them out to not all
perish of neglect. As father and son changed the first greetings, devoting a few words to
the absent families, the conversation fell on the battle: Master
told me what happened in the Holy Trinity, and then added:

"But nobody
tells me where is a fixed point Gravina. Have you taken prisoner,
or retired to Cadiz?

- General - Malespina said - he said a horrific
fire at Defiance and Revenge. Have aided and abetted the Neptune,
French, and the San Ildefonso and San Justo, our, but the forces the
enemy is doubled with the help of Dreadnoutgh, the Thunderer and Poliphemus,
after which it was impossible any resistance. Finding himself the
Prince of Asturias with all cut the rigging, no sticks, riddled with
bullets, and having been wounded General Gravina and Maj. Gen. Seaton,
resolved to abandon the struggle, because all resistance was insane
and the battle was lost