 What has my face on these issues? I am a Catholic, Apostolic Roman, but if
tomorrow the king, our lord (She took his hand to his cap by saying this), I with a detachment
sent to Rome, I there as the Constable of Bourbon, the looting and turn on the pontiff.

- And I say that if His Holiness could send me to put one quarter of bayonet through the navel
to the Constable, you have assured that I got two.

- No.

- Why not? - Roared the chaplain getting crimson.

- Because the constable has been dead for three centuries.

- Good.

Three centuries ago that burns in hell.

- All that is fine, pater,
but the king always up, are we? and the other to shut up and obey.

-
The pope never silent, Baron!

- Well, it puts a gag.

- Would I see
porra!

Reporra!

Porra a hundred times! who made her being close Fray Diego de Areces! - Shouted the priest rising
convulsive breathing fire from his eyes.

- Sit, pater, and calm down and poured another glass, Fray Diego de
Areces is only a casserole.

The chaplain suddenly calmed down, gently poured liquor in the two cups and drained to his delight,
after which he dropped his head on his chest, eyelids him down and began to doze. Baron, radiant
with joy, I looked at him with sly eyes, taking advantage of his
temporary absence to pour another glass, 'of odd, " as he said.

Was constant feature of those sweet gin sessions which exchange the character of both. The irascible
genius, impetuous softened baron's so unlikely. Did, while it lasted the beneficent influence
of alcohol, cheerful, communicative, conciliator, no word bother him, nothing seemed sufficient
reason to be angry. In contrast, Fray Diego, which in normal state was a blessed, always jovial
and jocular, Tornabe a devil debater and fussy, suddenly acquired
humor that no one would suspect warrior under his round face placid
ajamonada Bl.

Despabilose after a few minutes, the Baron looked at him with strange
moments uttered fiercely and slurred:

- I, Baron, that you explain
to me what you mean by pot.

- Anda, salt shaker!

Now we go with that? Do you care what that means either?

- But I want ... Understand each other!

- We have already understood.

You have two quarts of gin under his belt and I two ... or something else - said by a prodigious
number of winks.

- Not that, Monsieur le Baron, not that! Let us understand once, porra!

- Here there are no lords or priests - said the noble in a fit of
good humor rising Chair .-- Here are just Uncle Francis, who am I,
and Uncle Diego, that you, are we?

... Come these five ...

As we move forward with outstretched hand took a few missteps, but
he stood firm.

- Come these five brave!

    
    The priest is softened.

They shook hands.

- Now embraced by the rightful king of Spain.

- Do not talk to me for hugs !...-- cleric shouted back plaster .-- I remember Vergara hug and
cheer! ...

- Do not worry, buddy, we already pay for it.

Ay, ay, ay! mutilates Chapel sparrow.

And he began to sing the anthem Carlist hoarsely, but suddenly interrupted:

- Hey, man Diego, sing! Let us now with tears ...

Indeed, his friend cried tears like hazelnuts that time, recalling the betrayal Vergara.

- Up, cuirassier! What you do not weigh that bebiésemos a glass for the extermination of all blacks?

Fray
Diego was declared, with a nod, a supporter in principle of this toast comforting, but did not
move from the chair.

Drank another glass, and its effect was so prodigious in the traditional
soul of the Baron, which immediately began to dance the footwork English
on the table, without leave by Fray Diego so many tears to shed.

-
Hum!

I do not like this dance extranjis - said at last getting off a jump;
- prefer raw dance.

Come, uncle Diego ...

And the strength, taking him by the hand,
lifted the chair and began to walk with him singing one of the long
and monotonous chants of the country.

Fray Diego felt rejuvenated. He remembered his time there in the village cress, when his uncle,
the priest he was grinding Areces to night clubs because they jumped
out the window to go to court the young women from neighboring villages.

-
Hey, Diego - suddenly stopping Baron said .-- Do not you think that
before going drink a drink for the soul of our ancestors?

Friar assented willingly, but the glasses lay broken on the floor and empty jars. The baron
opened a cupboard and took out new elements of spiritual life. This cup funeral inspired him
most happy idea, that of covering the head of the chaplain with his beret and adorn him spout it,
resting on a chair.

So back to the dance dresses, two figures doing really interesting.

Baron stumbled and fell.

- Rise, uncle Diego.

The monk took his hands again he had come loose and pulled hard up.

But weight nobleman bowed and rolled the two on the ground.

- Rise, uncle Diego!

- Rise, Uncle Frank!

Both were rolling by releasing barbaric laughter. Baron finally managed to stand up. The Chaplain
did the same after awhile.

But his soul, a moment illuminated by memories youth, suddenly fell again in the blood and extermination.
He turned fiercely his friend.

- Whether we realize it at once, porra! Why you called me pot recently? Huh? Huh? Why?

- I'll explain soon, man - replied the Baron calmly, - but before
you drink a glass by the congregation of all Christians, whose visible
head is the pope ... say, if you like.

The chaplain did not obstacle.

- Well, I have called dish - clucking continued - because a dish,
do you know? a pan used for the filling of cooked potatoes.

That said, the Baron fell in a spasm of joy so violent that he almost
drowned.

While Thus, the bulging eyes of his comrade looked at him with an
expression that seemed threatening they would jump from their sockets
and thrown on him at times grew as a lobster.

- And why cooked potatoes?

I have so many livers as you cheer! and have proven Orduña in action and that of Unza, and
something I have in my house six crosses.

- You?

Do you? - Said the gentleman could not quiet the laughter .-- You have never served to to the
ranch to the squadron.

The Friar's anger knew no bounds at this. She screamed, kicked, punched gave frightening on
the table. Finally, he pressed to the door from its frame began with decomposed gesture to
the apostrophe.

- That tells you because you are in your home! Leave you were to say it! Get out me!

The Baron looked at him with smiling curiosity.

- Quiet, quiet, uncle Diego.

- Get out to kill me! ... Saber, pistol, with what you want ...

- Well, man, well, we'll kill us ... but only give you pleasure ...

Was
unsteadily to the bedroom and groped, because the darkness was complete,
put hands in the rack and pulled out two large cavalry sabers.

-
Toma - stretching one chaplain said.

This took him out of the pod and began to wield.

While conducting the test, D. Francisco watched him brimming with
satisfaction.

- Well, we already - said the monk sheathing .-- In
progress.

And taking the gutter, who was on the floor, and hiding the sword
under the cloak, out the door.

The baron took his cap, put a thick coat montecristo and followed
him.

- Stop! - Said before he had taken four steps .-- Do not you
think that we take the spur?

Fray Diego grunted yes.

Again entered the room and, groping the ground, ran into the jar of
gin, which was not completely exhausted.

Came up with the glasses and pour everything he had.

Act took to the streets continued.

Thick gravel pavement was wet.

Menudísima rain was falling, so thick that calaba shortly clothing
as the strongest storm.

The night had almost closed complete.

And, according to local practices, there is still a good quarter-hour
turn the famous oil-lamps, the darkness enveloped the sodden city.

The two heroes, animated by the spirit of the war, walked resolutely down the street Well, the clergyman
in front, behind noble, both muffled to the eyes and squeezing under arm the instrument of death
that everyone wore.

Street entered the Bonfires, passed through under the walls of the fortress and took to the road
that encircles the old city wall of the population.

As the water through the filter in the shelters, cooling their meat,
they would gradually balancing your moods.

The Fray Diego tended visibly to calm, cast one by one the veils
that oppressed blacks.

But these veils the collected Baron and enveloped all them arrogant
and cruel spirit.

Both progressed to the fearless through the night and rain, presaging death.

They kept a good distance along the wall and reach the road took Sarrió
for her.

They had not gone five minutes when they heard about a whimper. Stood firm, and approaching the
railing distinguished a package; approached and saw a little girl sitting.

- What are you doing? - Baron said, grabbing her by the arm.

- Sorry! - Josefina said at the height of terror .-- For God's sake do not beat me, sir! And beat me a
lot.

Knight's hand suddenly loosened, changing tone of voice and said:

- No, my dear, no, no one will stick. How are you doing here at this hour?

- I have pasted a lot of my godmother and I ran away from home.

- Do not have parents?

- No, sir.

- Do you live in Lancia?

- Yes,
sir.

- Who is your sponsor?

- A lady.

- What's your name?

- Amalia.

-
Porra! - Fray Diego exclaimed, slapping his forehead .-- It is the
girl picked up by D. Pedro Quiñones.

- Is it true that called D.
Peter the husband of your godmother?

- Yes, sir.

- Come on, get
up, my daughter.

There are no good. Come with us.

- Oh, no, by God! I take my godmother!

- No, do not go there. You're wet, baby! - Added feeling their clothes .-- Go, go.

The two heroes had put the Sabres over the edge. When they walked into Lancia leading to the
girl in the middle, there were left forgotten, never thinking that detracts moisture and steel
rusts.

- And why hit you your godmother? - Fray Diego asked as they walked
slowly to accommodate the passage of the child.

- Because he was
playing with the pastors.

- Pastors!

... But the shepherds of Don Pedro come home at night?

- Yes, sir, sleep in cardboard box.

- Well, see, girl, what are you saying there? - Stopping the chaplain uttered.

The investigation was immediately brought to the shepherds were made of clay. Fray Diego started
up again, with his cloak guarding the fragile creature's body.

But one of the times put his hand on the side noted with surprise
that the moisture she was hot wet fingers.

Reported this observation with his antagonist, and however who had reached the first houses
in the city, put the girl in a doorway, lit Baron and recognize a match. Whole face was suffused
with blood, flowing from some deep scratches, hands covered in bruises. The two heroes looked
terrified and the same wave of anger lit her face. The Baron gave a series of curses caps. These
and his ugly face made such an impression on frightening Josefina, who fled screaming into
a corner.

Managed, not without difficulty, calm, and then dry a face with a handkerchief, Fray Diego picked
her (the Baron had tried in vain) Tapola well with his cloak and
set off to the manor of Oscos.

There he became the first priest. Baron, that the campaign had gained
some knowledge surgery, carefully washed his wounds, closed bonded
and healed bruises with some ointment effective than possessed. The
rough hands of veterans seemed Silk by touching the skin of the girl.
A woman had not healed with more finesse, with such attention and
care.

Josephine was losing the fear. So ugly that man was not bad.
He dared to ask for water. The Baron replied that it was usual in
that house, and that the best thing to come now to remove the scare
was a glass of sherry. He did bring, and after the girl had drunk,
the two champions of the legitimate king retired to a corner of the
room to deliberate.

Decided that the practical at that time was to
bring the girl home from Quiñones. The Baron was responsible for delivering
it. Before very well heat up the ears of her godmother, I would say
that was a worthless slut, a vile and evil creature, and that if he
ever dared to mistreat that poor helpless child, would go home to
cut off the ears and tie after the bow to the tail of his horse and
dragged through the city. Fray Diego was not content so cruelly, but
the Baron did not alter by the living God let this little incident
plan exemplary terrible.

Josefina struggled to persuade him to come
with them. After promising Consiguiéronlo her godmother would never
stick it and that would be very good for her thereafter. No so! How
dare touch even a hair, spoke of God! I twisted the neck like a chicken,
skinned alive the lashes with the brake of your horse. The face of
that man was so terrible to utter such threats, that she did not hesitate
compliance.

As they walked toward the mansion Quiñones, Baron did
not stop throwing insults and death threats against the wife of the
Grandee. Fray Diego tried in vain to calm him. His instincts were
being bloody thereby exacerbating that the ex-priest, fearing a disaster,
said goodbye to reach the palace gate.

The Baron rang the bell. Not
knowing the feudal custom of the house, threw no more than once. Open
soon judging commoner. The surprise of the servant was great to see
that awful man, who instilled so much respect in the city, and hastened
to apologize for not visiting more time to open. The baron asked by
Pedro Quiñones. They did pass and the servant went before the grand
staircase of stone. On reaching the main floor asked him to wait while
he announced.

A few moments later she appeared Amalia. He directed
a piercing look of hatred for the girl, The Baron was holding my hand,
and he said to it coldly and haughtily

- What you wanted?

- He came
to give this girl that I picked up on the street ... while talking
to Don Pedro or with you four words