 Do the opponents have difficulty of spiny solution?
The number of responses made up for its solidity. The most serious author A answered in this
way, the famous B-so, the wise C-so, either three is enough, choose the best sound, with complete
certainty that the Achilles adversaries have received the wound in the tendon. This is not to
convince, but to win; self-esteem is interested in the race, and known are the infinite resources
of this evil agent. Favoring bulges and exaggerates, what prejudice is diminished, defaced
Toggle: good faith protest sometimes from the depths of the soul, but her voice is drowned and
silenced as a word of peace in fierce combat.

If not, how is it possible to explain that for many centuries, schools have seen as organized, and
disciplined armies grouped around a flag? How that a number of illustrious for his learning
and virtues, they saw all a question of a Similarly, while his opponents no less enlightened
than them, they saw everything opposite way? How is it to know what were the views of one author,
not necesitásemos read, common enough in what the order to which he belonged, or the school where he
had gone? Could it be ignorance of the matter, when consumed his life in studying it? Could it
be that not read the works of their opponents? This is verified in many, but others can not be
doubt that consult regularly. Could be bad faith? Certainly not because they were distinguished
by Christian fortitude.

The causes are those listed above, the man before inducing others into error, he deceives many times
to himself. It clings to a system, there is every reason to castellated which might favor,
his mood is going to overheating as it is under attack, until the Finally, whatever the number
and strength of opponents, seems to be saying to himself: "This is your place, it must defend:
is better to die with glory than live in disgrace cowardice. "

For this reason, when trying to convince others, we must carefully separate the Because the
truth of the cause of self: mind on how to persuade the opponent that giving, nothing lost in
reputation. No ataqueis never clearly and insight talent, otherwise the battle will be formalized,
the fight will be close, and even holding him under your feet and the sword in the throat,
not to confess recabaréis up.

There are certain words of courtesy and deference at all to address the truth, in hesitating
the adversary should not save, if you want to give her things gone
before have come to nasty ends [14].

CHAPTER XV.

Reasoning.

§ I.

The worth of principles and rules of dialectics.

When the authors treated in this operation of understanding, to pile up a lot of rules direct, support
in some axioms.

Not dispute the truth of these, but I doubt much to the usefulness of those is much as has been
claimed. In effect, it is undeniable things that are identified with a third identify themselves,
that is two identify with each other, if one is other than a third, so shall also the other, that
is affirmed or denied of a whole genus or species, must be affirmed or denied the individual
content in them, and also is also very true that the rules of argumentation
based on these principles are infallible. But I have difficulty in
the application, and I can not convince they are of great use in practice.
First, admit that these rules help to give some precision to the
understanding which may serve in some cases to design more clearly,
and attend to the defects involving a speech well that sometimes this
advantage is offset to the disadvantages carried by the assumption
that reasoning is known, because no rules are ignored reasoning