 If I well, I think that tomorrow or the day after I wake up every
throw.

- Do you have cured the Spanish fly?

- Ventura is put on
it now, but has not finished - said, turning to frown.

- Yes, just
get him in the hallway, and told me that you're bothered because I
figured did so with reluctance - Cecilia said smiling kindly.

- Not
that!

Not that! - Said the young man in a tone of impatience and not a
little embarrassed.

- You must forgive, because it is not used to
these things.

It's a girl ... In addition, the state that is perhaps influence your stomach.

- Not that, Cecilia! - She cried the young man more impatiently, raising
some Head .-- pillows would be very foolish and selfish to bother
if a thing which after all is in hand to avoid.

It's a matter of temperament, and I should not to respect, much more
the case of my wife, who is in exceptional condition ... But there's
more.

What I just spent rains, it pours. Ten days ago I'm in bed, and has not entered this room
more than two or three times a day and almost always call me ...
Do you think that's what a woman should be married?

... If not been for you and mom ... especially for you ... would be left in the hands of servants
as in an inn.

- Oh, no, Gonzalo!

- Yes, yes, Cecilia - replied with energy and exalting .-- Abandoned. My wife does not appear
here, but when visiting ... So, yes, has made an arm of the sea, smelling scents and red devils
... But bring me herbal tea, write down the doctor's prescriptions, me some company talking or
reading me something ... Of that, nothing!

... Now I beg cure the blister, and, as I say, completely change
its appearance ... Start looking exits for escape.

Only when I insist hard, you decide ... But so reluctantly! with a face so straight, I was
tempted to throw it all the gizmos. It would shred of dignity or even ashamed, if he had consented
to follow ...

He had been extolling increasingly, to the point entirely incorporated in the bed. Cecilia
standing in the middle of the room, heard him restless and confused, not knowing what to say.
I wanted to defend his sister, but was not powerful enough to counter arguments those of his brother.

-
Gonzalo - he said at last, his voice firm and serene countenance,
approaching the bed, - the disgust you just had a little exalted thee,
and do not see things as they really are ... It is possible Ventura
has been somewhat neglected in the performance of his duties, but
be sure that there has been a lack of will.

I know it well. I know his character does not lend itself engage in such detail and care that a patient
needs. There used to nurse. In addition, believes that now is in a state to be dispensed many
things ...

- But if so at all, Cecilia! If so, at all! - Said the young man so vividly as bad temper .-- If
a girl is not into channel! The affairs of the house will have carelessly. For her, the only important
thing in the world is itself, its beauty, its costumes, her jewels ... Everything else, parents,
brothers, husband, do not mean anything ... I am sure has been more concerned that the hat
that Paris has asked that my illness ...

- Oh, do not say that, by God! You're crazy.

- I'm not crazy. Tell the truth ...

And with a quick word, vibrant, often stumbling by irritation that
was possessed, neatly explained their grievances, pleased to make
punctures bleed again that had received in their married life.

Ventura had a diametrically opposite character yours.

It was not possible to be good to her over an hour.

Because if last long compromise, and no reason to quarrel appeared, she was in charge of searching,
tired, no doubt, be at peace with her husband. If one thing was a pleasure to provide any,
instead of saying thank you, usually paid him with some scorn or sarcasm. Everything seemed
little. The greatest sacrifice the was small. There was no chance of making it think that their
dresses, perfumes, in their ribbons. What a life he had lead in Madrid three months there had been!
Not out of the shops in silks, jewelry, home of dressmaker. At night, surely the theater. Although he was
tired or depart head pain, nothing, it was necessary to be displayed in a box of Royal Prince or
Zarzuela. The money had been spent there, added an impressive amount.