 So Minerva scares the Furies and Orestes returns to peace of soul, and so Prometheus
is freed and saved by God's own son who was punished so horribly.

ON THE NOVEL TODAY

Time ago I wrote an article giving the Spanish public account of the novels calls Schools, who
has written the Uruguayan writer D. Carlos Reyles. As I do not ever relished taking an insignificant
or silly book for the object of my derision, to say the obvious jokes and low-grade and to the
role of Domino uses the discipline or the rod, either who knows me will understand that if I
spoke of the novels mentioned, was to have found real merit in them and judge them worthy subject
of criticism. This is also understood author D. Carlos Reyles, and if you responded to my article
in The Liberal, has been so so polite and so flattering, that moves
me to reply, if only for gratitude and courtesy.

I go to reply to Mr. Reyles, although I had enough difficult, because the Lord not directly
defend their works, which have been praised rather than censured me. What he defends is a certain
aesthetic that I somehow and to some extent condemn. Hence, to make the necessary distinctions
and mark well the limits to where lies my condemnation and the reasons on which it is based,
I need more space which can offer the Liberal and perhaps more patience than I presume must
have its readers. I will, however, an effort to be brief and to put it all in and figure short,
even with decline in explicit and clear what I long to be always
in my written.

In literature there is no Paris fashion, as in ladies' dresses and ornaments, and there is
no progress in literature and chemistry, surgery or mechanical, applied to industry. Therefore,
who understands that there are such fashion and such progress, writes a lot worse than I understood
Otherwise, cut the wings of his genius rather than lengthen them
and give them strength, it loses some of originality, if not lost
all and is exposed to falling into the false, as effete and the bizarre.

This

is what I have said and what it seeks to challenge Mr. Reyles, but in my opinion not contested.

What
I deny is that there should be fashions and fads have come from Paris,
but how I deny that I feel, think and imagine in each historical period
are different and reflected in works of imagination this difference?

Without wanting to imitate anyone, spontaneously even against our will, even when we strive to
be or to appear as another century or from another era, we are by virtue of the ineluctable laws
of our time and our century.

Suppose for a moment that no such French and Russian novels that Mr. Reyles puts by clouds or that
neither he nor I have read, or have not read but the Spanish novels
of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries and that we strive to imitate
and even to reflexively imitate.

The result will be, if Mr. Reyles and me there own personality and background, which we write
very different novels, all the old styles, very much our century our than aping the French or Russian.

The
imitation of the old is, moreover, a thousand times more secure. Silly, so foolish, and the vulgar,
everything has fallen into oblivion or into disrepute. Several generations of critics and contempt
of the people have swept the insignificant and wrong, as he swept away. Good, so-called classical,
it is only in our memory, is presented as an example and model leads
us to imitation and competition excites us.

In the modern, in contrast, works literature are as the harvest in the era, no one has yet separate
the grain from the straw, or what food is to be nice and healthy seed or unpalatable weeds
that instead of delighting and nurture, drunk and cause dizziness. Hence, he who imitates what modern
danger of being deceived, blinded by the vulgar applause and the prestige of fashion, and instead
of imitating delicacies and beautiful, quirky news or bland imitation nonsense. It is clear that,
despite all, if the imitator is worth something, top of these developments and that nonsense
will come out and excel their own talent. Would not it be better not enthusiasm by the modern,
not the workmanship stunned both French and Russian in order to avoid being put on stilts,
which tiptoe and stretch your wits violently to come out top of this nonsense and these developments,
showing as it is?