 And despite its weakness, he could not resist
the second glance, the pair coercive pleading of his friend. He drank the gall until stool,
and looked after treading recklessly Weasel cabbage and corn.

- Wait, Anita, who accompanied her - whispering -.

Wait a minute ... may occur to you something.

Ana shrugged his shoulders, and shortened the passage to allow them to unite Borren. Matched
and walked in silence along the road; Ana lipped and some chills
and shivering, despite being extremely wrapped in the shawl.

Upon reaching the entrance of the city, the cigarette was measured again and to do so with contemptuous
look from head to toe.

- Do you think of anything? - Asked him half
faded yet, with hoarseness that bordered in aphonia.

- Nothing -
she answered sharply.

And then on the Delete setting bright eyes green -: Don Henry - he said - do you know what you
been thinking?

- Say you ....

- That you are a gem.

- Why did you say that, beautiful Anita? - Spoke amiably and Clear, which when viewed from people
and busy streets had regained their poise.

- Because ... one to leave when sick .... But you! But what men! - Articulated with anger -.
If if were to end the caste ... never missed so much!

Well, Abur ... I'm half bit upset and gives me pleasure to see people.

- I'll go with you if ....

- Do you? - She murmured ironic and dismissive -. Why?

Abur, Abur, if you see a girl in my class!

Abur.

And Weasel ran down an alley, leaving Borren without knowing what was wrong.

When Baltasar and she were alone, the evening fell, not like that peaceful and glacial February,
but warm, lazy to say goodbye to the sun, gray clouds piled heavy cirrus in the sky, the sea, and
chopped green, roared in the distance, and a strip of fringed the
Topaz horizon on the part of the West.

Amparo had a moment of fear.

- I'm going to my house - he said, rising.

- Amparo ... not now - delivered with inflection pleading Baltasar -. Do not go away, we're in
paradise.

La Tribuna, paralyzed, looked around.

Petty was paradise indeed.

A box of cabbage, another of onions, strawberry powdery, trodden by the feet of the world, the
elms low and stocky, the acirates full of white thorn, sad well with
grating pulley, but there were young and love to embellish so poor
Eden.

The girl smiled Baltasar posing softly in their bulging black eyes.

-
Why do you want to get away, we? - Questioned him with gentle authority
-.

If you run away forever Me, if I think you fear, there is nothing particular that I go also to walk,
or where I can think of.

You know .-- And he came closer to her, burning her face with her
panting breathing -: Am I going to ride? - asked.

Amparo gave a nod that it could be translated as follows: - Do not
leave you in no mode.

- You treat me so bad ....

- What do you want
me to do?

- That you behave better ....

- Well, let's be clear -
she exclaimed, shaking his slump and building on the edge of the well.

The red light of sunset then wrapped, his face lit up like an ember,
and a second Baltasar once seemed made of fire.

- Di, beautiful ....

-
You ... want to commit ... want to behave like others behave with
girls my area.

- Certainly not, daughter, where does it infer?

Do not think so badly of me.

- You see I know very well what goes on in the world ... a lot of
talk, and talk, but after ....

Baltasar hand picked strawberries
that transcended.

- My honor, Don Balthazar, is like anyone you know?

I am a daughter of the people, but I have my pride ... for the same
.... So ... and can you understand me.

The society opposes to you to give me husband's hand.

- Why? - Savvy ruler asked the officer.

- Why? - Repeated the vanity in the depths of the soul of the Tribune.

-
I would not be the first nor the second, to marry .... No school today
....

- What about your family ... his family ... do you think does
not disdain a daughter of the people?

- Bah ... What does it matter?

My family is one thing, I'm the other - Balthasar replied impatiently.

- Promise me you marry me?

"- Murmured she simpleton of politics.

- Yes, my darling! - Said
he almost without noticing what was asked, it was determined to say
amen to everything.

But Amparo back.

- No, no! - Stammered, trembling and frightened -.

Not enough to talk like this ... "I swear it you?

Baltasar was young and had no seductive temple of trade. He hesitated, but was driven by a moment:
to strengthen the voice coughed and heaved a:

- I swear.

There was a moment of silence in which only sound was the thin air
whistling over the tops the elms of the road and the distant wail
of the sea.

- Why the soul of his mother?, Why your eternal damnation?

Baltasar, with choked voice, articulated perjury.

- In front of the
face of God? - Continued Amparo anxious.

Baltasar again hesitated a minute. It was solid and fervent believer as Amparo, but neither convinced
atheist, and slight tremor shook his lips to utter the horrible blasphemy. A heavy head, covered
with copious hair curl, and rested on his chest, and balsamic snuff smell that permeated the Tribune
enveloped him. And reiterated his scruples Disipáronse oaths and the most solemn promises.

He was running to close the night and fourth of loving like a scimitar moon pierced through silver
the accumulated clouds. On the road, silent and gloomy, not passing anyone.

-XXXII-

The Tribune is forged illusions

In the early days, Baltasar, intoxicated by the aroma of the cigar, was a regular, missed his
usual reserve and acted as if he feared the world view or his family. It is true in the neighborhood
lived Amparo section where it was not easy being seen people in their dealings; however, known
ever encountered on the occasion of going to accompany the girl. Was for this reason or other,
soon find most remote places for interviews, where everyone was on their side, not meeting
up to be sheltered from prying eyes. One of these sites was a kind of diner attached to a gas
plant, drink too favorite of the cigar. Given the rough stone table, gnawed by the weather,
sat Baltasar and Amparo, and there they brought bottles of beer, soda, whose cheerful pop encouraged
from time to time the dialogue. A thick vine was providing shade, a few chickens pecking at
pictures of a garden mean, the place was silent, like a cabinet sunny, but hidden. Through the
leaves of vines filtered sunlight, and fell sometimes in drops of light moving on the face of
Amparo, while Baltasar watched, involuntarily admiring certain graces and perfections of his face
made to be seen closely, as the delicate network of veins that darken their eyelids, the intricacies
of tiny ear, the clarity of brown complexion, where the light is lost in half-tones of honey
the warm rich youth of color, the whiteness of teeth, abundant hair. This detailed inventory
lasted some time, after which, Baltasar, having learned memory these and other features, and
talked with the Tribune of everything that could be talk to her,
began to find the hours longer.

Restricted visits to the picnic area limiting them to the holidays, and while he Amparo handmade
cigarettes I used to eat, he read, just finished pulling the clouds of cigarette smoke. Not
knowing Why do Amparo wanted to teach how to smoke, to which she was provided with disgust,
claiming that no cigarette smoke, which happen to be "tired of seeing snuff", and that was only
good to put patches on the temples where a headache. Flowing media to entertain, Baltasar Amparo
brought a novel to read it aloud, but it was so easy to mourn the cigarette so that the heroes
were dying of love or of another disease like that which convinced the boy that was put silly,
removed the books. In sum, Baltasar and Amparo as two bodies were found together an instant
affinity for loving then separated by repulsions invincible, and tended constantly to leave each by
his side.

To add insult to boredom, Baltasar noticed that, while he sought to hide neatly his adventure,
Amparo, which had placed all their hope in false words and commitment
created by the youth, she dedicated her existence because they saw
together, because advertising drive the point home that set him for
ever imagined.

I wanted to display it, like Anna merchant captain bore; wanted Sobrado family knew what was happening
and anger and that of Garcia, the proud young lady, also found out that the left by Baltasar
Tribune, as well as it sounds. And ships burned to make noise Amparo suit him well Baltasar as silent.
In this different mood the first born disputes, even minor, short of the two lovers, fights
that initially served as a fun Baltasar, because sometimes, to the disappointment distracts.
At least while they lasted, no came the unwelcome yawn to dislocate the jaw. Worse would be to talk
politics, talk Balthasar had forbidden and that the Tribune was manifested more fond of some time
now.

It was not entirely systematic behavior of Amparo to seek publicity in their affairs, their character
drove her to it. Superficial and vehement, gustábanle appearances and externals; the walk in
tongues and flattered to be envied, never pitied. The day she gave her earrings Gold for Rita,
stayed home not a farthing, and childish proudly told everyone that I had money, amenguando
well the value of your noble trait. Now, in its relations with Balthazar, worked harder than
ever and dressed their best, to believe that the gentleman Sobrado was generous with it. Inwardly
rejoiced that would support its agile fingers, while the neighborhood envied him not receiving
largesse beyond that, it would refuse to contempt if they are offered.

His vanity was twofold: he wanted the public had to Baltasar liberal, and Baltasar not had
it for mercenary. And Balthazar, if he paid the gas, the cakes, once the theater tickets,
as other worthy heir showed and successor Andez Dolores de Sobrado. Never thought of or never wanted
to think (that even it's thinking about something is usually determined by the freely) as eat that
good-looking, whether it would be stock or cornbread, if you drink clear water, and how they compose
for always submitted to it with crisp starched petticoat, a cotton robe jumping clean Rusel boots
fine, new silk handkerchief. The cigar was aromatic and select: what the smoker matter how
prepared?

Meanwhile, Amparo enjoyed watching the anger of his rivals in the factory, the smirk Ana, hints,
nudges, the atmosphere of curiosity that condensed around of his person, leading to both their
faintness, which made themselves very mysterious gift people into believing they came from Sobrado,
was lit in the chest bouquets of flowers, and until he acquired a
silver ring with a heart of blue enamel on the retegustazo they thought
they were Baltasar fineness.

When asked if it was true that married a gentleman, smiling, became angry as the joke, and pretended
to look furtively the ring .... Marry! And why not? Were we not all equal in the revolution here?
Did not was sovereign people? And the egalitarian ideas were returning in droves to dominate
and flatter their wishes. For if he had made the revolution and the Northern Union, and all, would
be for we had equal, if not, things may well remain as they were .... The trouble was he commands the
Italian king, that Macarronini, which looked at first freedom .... But would fall, and no doubt,
came the republic.

With these thoughts I entertained the hours of work in the factory. Each cigarette that rolled,
the soft rustle of paper, a naive hope in his heart arose. When she was lady was not to behave
like other arrogant, they were there rolling cigars as well as it,
and now, because trailing silk top of the shoulder looked at by his
friends from yesterday.

Quia! Greet her on the street when he saw with utmost kindness. With regard to receive Business
... So, as and as her husband becomes available, but what work does a greeting? Ana had to teach
his home. Your home! A house like Sobrado, with stalls crimson damask, console, mahogany, gilt-framed
mirror, piano, desk clock and many lighted candles! And Amparo, closing her eyes, she thought
she felt in the face of the cold north wind Twelfth Night .... When I walked barefoot in the
doorway of Sobrado to sing Christmas carols "Never thought of it falling in love Balthazar? For
as this had happened, the other ....

However, within the factory itself was skeptical that augured ill of the entanglements he was getting
into Amparo. Marry, marry!

Soon it says, but easier said than done .... "Gifts? Go a few gifts for a child to spare! Silver
Rings, branches of two rooms! Bah! bah! It was known as things stood. Although deaf, these rumors
were not as concealed them from reaching the woman concerned, and together with other little things
that she observed also began to stab him in the soul of the most cruel dart misgivings. Baltasar
cooled visibly: at each step was more cautious, more precautions adopted, discovered more proactive
nature and interest to conceal their dealings with the girl as a
hidden disease humiliating.

Still showed himself tender and passionate in the interviews, but stubbornly refused to accompany
Amparo two steps beyond the door.

All of the above, noted from his bed the paralytic, and found ourselves very restless and complaining,
for several reasons, among others, because since winning in Amparo spent as new boots and
embroidered petticoats, she was deprived of certain comforts and treats that do not spared before.
Trouble was that his daughter is lost and bad also that dealing with gentlemen, instead of bring
money home, they insist, and had to spend the evening doing custom cigarettes to eat. And a lot
of flowers! And much of camisole with lace! What need!

Confident of these lamentations was Chinto, who used to come to spend the long crippled hours
after work, since I knew how conducive is show time to claim marriage. Yet again the old to
the load from time to time, and spoke of her daughter Chinto; he would be fine and handsome,
but he was a workhorse, a wolf and an unhappy work. Authorized, no doubt, as good intentions, which
paralyzed Chinto available for a son.

Once, when money became scarce, Rogol "it was for six quarters sugar for the scale to the corner store,
which would pay him. " The waiter came and went with a brown paper cone filled with brown sugar,
the payment is not more talk. Another day taking care of a ticket for the next drawing, the old,
for a clear conscience of inveterate gambler, he said that if "fell" be leaving as friends.
Gradually, and helping the very distracted this Amparo walked, back to tie the old Chinto yoke, to blindly
obey the voice of the cripple despotic, made him an errand, he managed
the fourth, brought cures, given ointments.

And this does not mean that the poor woman set out deliberately to
exploit the young man, but at his age and status, some care and mimes
are just as necessary as breathing air.

Indeed the curious spectacle offered Chinto, colorless, thin, almost
ragged, caring the woman who was not his mother, who had always treated
harshly, and while he Peel the potatoes for the soup the next day,
or mulli the pallet of the barred, Amparo back, the silvery moonlight
of summer, which dragged on Highway Olmeda the shadow of the majestic
trees, an appointment in secret places, in the lonely orchards, or
in the desert Aguasanta Hill Road.

-XXXIII-

Leaves fall

It happened,
when approaching the fall, called paralytic at the head Amparo from
his bed, unusual tone and gestures, whispering hoarsely:

- Come here,
come on.

Amparo came up with his head down.

The mother reached out, grabbed his chin violently for to pick up
the face, and yelled terrible high-pitched voice:

- What now?

Silent daughter. Constábale that questioned the person who had lived many years and proud of wedlock,
his honesty commoner, her husband's work, that in Ing patterns to both of the factory by model
family together, that on one occasion the chief had uttered words honorable for her, calling women
"formal and well." Yes, Amparo knew, and so silent. Paralytic repeatedly gave him advice, with
disastrous predictions have been fulfilled at last.

Built half on the bed, concentrating on eyes furious life of his
body, he repeated the mother, with scorn and anger:

- What now?

Amparo remained pale and motionless.

The crippled felt a tingling in the palm of your hand and stamped loudly on the cheek of her
daughter, who stumbled, fell hiding face, and went to sit on the nearest chair.

- Dishonest, threadbare, that not aprendistes me! - Shouted the sick, some well off and after the
slap.

She said nothing, which would then willingly popularity, and until
the advent of the ideal republic, for being seven feet into the ground.

However, stoically sipped scalding tears in their eyes sticking out,
and, dispirited, recognizing and abiding by maternal authority, stammered:

-
I have become engaged.

- And I believed!

- Do not know why it said
the girl ...-- stronger accent and -.

I am like others, so good as more ... Today we are not at times be uneven men ... today we are
all about, ma'am ... are over these tyrannies.

Paralytic shook his head, with the persistent mistrust of the old homeless than ever rain from
the sky were grilled bacon.

- The poor are poor - spoke wistfully ...--. You will stay poor, and Master you will laugh
...-- And this idea, feeling his anger cried reborn -: Sácateme front,
indina, I'll kill you: if you were words that you comply.

Ducked under, and came trembling.

Alone, recovered energy, calculated that by the wrong in despair, perhaps his bad luck would
be a tie that had just joined Baltasar with her forever. Yes, it could not happen otherwise,
unless the tiger had guts.

He waited eagerly on Sunday, the day of appointment at the gas picnic. Rose early, went much
before Baltasar.

The fall was stripping the vines of his pompous cut foliage, and gnarled branches seemed evil skeleton
arms wrapped in shreds of purple the few remaining leaves. Some cluster black top. In some old tubs
Arrimadas the stone bench was empty bottles that looked like beached shipwrecks a sandbank.
Amparo Baltasar felt very cold when he arrived.

He sat beside the girl, who presented a package of his favorite cigarettes, grout, rather long,
bundled with great care. Baltasar took one and lit it, sucking Quick nervously aspirations.
Every woman in love with a man comes to know by its slightest movements, by the acts distracted
and almost mechanically executed, the mood that is. Baltasar Amparo knew that when smoked and
are not distinguished by the ludicrous and affable. As the sun was not seep into obstacles
through the leafless vine, the young man's face, bathed in light, it seemed hard and angular,
his mustache, blond in the shade, now had a metallic gold, her blue eyes looked with glacial
clarity. Poor Tribune, so fearless when held forth, was found at all cut and suspicious, and believed
felt that the throat with a knotted rope. He waited in vain for an expansion, a caress sweet,
passionate, not wine. Baltasar shut up very good things, and kept silent. From time to time the
breath of autumn gave off a burst of the rearward sheets vine, which hung wrinkled and yellowish
on the granite table, between two lovers, producing dry a little noise. Pin! Baltasar's ears rang
the voice of Dona Dolores, exclaiming: "" Boy do not you know that
Garcia ... Marvel!, Won the lawsuit in the Supreme?

I know it fixed by the same lawyer here. " Pin, pin! And Amparo, in turn, heard angry words:
"If gave you words that you fulfill them. " Pinnn! ... A purple leaf slow down .... "Baltasarito
Jr. percent will be caught and do not know how many thousands of dollars, if they win."

Finally, Baltasar was the first to break the silence .... He spoke of the work that cost him
come, how necessary it was modesty, that should be less .... Saying this hard accent, as if Amparo
he was guilty about something. The cigarette was listening move, with white lips, staring into
the face of Balthasar, who was the expression distracted from the bad payer who does not want to
remember their debt. And it was the worst case, for more than the Tribune wanted to draw on his
oratory, he would have been Pearl at the time, phrases was not that
begin to address the most important issue.

At last, as he saw Baltasar up in amazement, saying that he expected the colonel to service matters,
She also won resolved, and gave him the news and brutally clear, unambiguous and rodeos, feeling in
the chest boiling anger in his natural than a hundredfold.

A flash of surprise crossed by pupils of Sobrado transparent and stiff,
but the point folded his thin mouth, and say that he had closed his
face with double key selládolo with seven seals.

It was another than the lad Baltasar funny, flattering, and the feline
summer hours.

Amparo noticed that represented ten years.

- Today - said, standing before him - it's just that I meet the word.

- Now ...-- repeated, his voice slow -.

The word ....

- From marry me! I think I on the right to ask ....

- Women ...-- Baltasar said quietly, shaking his cigarette ash - not all leave things as desire.
Circumstances force him to one thousand transactions, which .... I wish, just like you, it was
morning, but put yourself in my case .... My mother ... my father
... my family ....

- Your family, your family!

Did not she was told one thing and you another? Did I miss any stain
your family, just in case? "I am the daughter of some executed, or
some captain of gang? Are not we in times of equality? Is not my mother
as honest as yours, repels?

- Not that ... I do not say that ....

-
For what you say then that you stand there silent? Got something to
reproach me? Did not I earned my living by working honestly, not ask
you this to you or anyone else? Did I order something, I asked you
something? Ando "I with others?

- How do you know such a thing