 

"In Madrid - thinking the Count - many people now lack in the summer, but Madrid has not been desert.
My girls - so he called them now - are a delicacy of beautiful: they are natural and inborn distinguished.
How is that they have friends or relatives among the people I deal? How is that, having so many
people in Madrid, Seville, or has been in Seville, my girls know anyone? In any house I have.
Why live so isolated? At the same Sevilla must have lived in greater isolation. "

Count inferred here that their unknown, although Seville, had lived away from the world or timid,
or too much poverty, or extravagance of her husband.

Then going from thought to action, leaving the speculative method and appealing to study and
investigation of the facts, the Count, who had good relations everywhere, was the chief of staff
of the Ministry of Finance and asked for the names of the most Recent employees in all those
units were. The list was long, because long time that there had been changes, renewal and transfer
of employees, but not missing an officer on staff who had some news
biographies of all new.

"Don Anacleto Perez 'he said, for example, the list .-- Where did
it come? - Wondering Count .-- De la Coruña - answered the officer
.-- Are you married? - .-- For you single out - replied Count.

So the officer was indicating various names, until he said: - Don Braulio Gonzalez .-- Where come?
- asked the Count .-- De Sevilla - said the officer .-- Are you married? - asked again Count .--
It is more than married - said the officer -: we can describe as a bigamist, because more his
wife, who is very pretty, has with him his sister, even prettier,
if possible, and fair as some candles .-- That is what I seek - said
the Count.

Then again recommended, since even before I had done the chief of staff, secrecy regarding
its investigation.

By the officer also knew the Count Don Braulio did no more than a month that was Madrid, which enjoyed
a salary of 3,000 pesetas, less discount, who had a reputation of excellent employee, that would
justify to work which the Minister entrusted to him, that he was a man of forty-five to fifty
years of age but looked older, because it was rather bald and very sickly, and that only took
three years of marriage had no children; his wife, Dona Beatriz, and his wife's sister, named
Ines, were a place the province of Cordoba, where he had been Manager of Revenue, that shortly
after wedding had been moved to Seville to rise, which in Seville he and his family had lived
far removed from the treatment of people, who now lived on Olive
Street in third floor of a house whose number is also given, and they
were all so ferrets, barely were treated in Madrid with a living soul.

Count heard all, returned to his thoughts and calculations.

Had taken the first step; but it was necessary to take the second. I already knew who was dealing
with, but that's nothing served if he failed to communicate wisely with Don Braulio and his family.

The
Count was far from being a reckless infinity. While She did not draw
any danger, if it did not hurt having to risk the skin, always feared
a coup in vague, do some anything that might put you in awkward and
ridiculous situation