 The poor girls are showing keen to follow his
mother that way of salvation ... Naturally, they were young and liked going to the theater
and attend the society. What scandals, suffocating, what whining by This incompatibility of
worldly comfort and religious duties! Not a day passed without there was some hubbub and syncope,
which was necessary to call the doctor and bring these and other drugs ... Fish tried to compromise,
agree wills, but could not nothing. Ultimately, it always sides with the poor girls, because she was
mortified see them praying over the bill and doing stupid penance. If they were very Christian
and Catholic, what drove the saints and martyrs make them point blank? For his part, D. Manuel
religious brake conceived it indispensable for the maintenance of society and order. Religion
had always defended and it seemed very well that governments protect her, chasing her detractors.
Came to admit, as indispensable in the scheme politician of his time, the hypocrisy of the state, but
private prudery will burst.

The most serious of all was the struggle Carolina with their sons. Little could not escape maternal
custody yet, and I was all day in church with her book in hand. But Joaquin, who was already
twenty years old, lawyer, philosopher, economist, writer, magazine, historian, poet, Theogonist, Athens,
how could submit to confession and communion every Sunday? Federico was also very early and made
the Majabarata articulejos. Big thunder burst when either said something that her mother seemed sacrilege.
Christ that was assembled! One day, eating, Carolina pulled the tablecloth, broken dishes, spilled
the contents of them and salt and wine, and shut himself in his room, where she cried for three
hours. A poor things Rosa and Josefa until last fall had dressed in short, were forced to confess
every month. Innocents, what sins could have if you did not even have a boyfriend?

The worst thing was that the lady cavalier Pez missed a guilt of irreligion of children. Yes,
he was an atheist masked, a herejote, a rationalist, it was content to hear Mass. only on Sundays,
almost from the door, talking politics with D. Cucurbits Francisco. Believed to genuflect when
rising, kneeling and scrawl on the tissue chest and forehead the sign of the cross, was sufficient.
For that it was better to be Protestant. In all the time who had married had not been approached
even once the court of penance. His devotion had been purely decorative, like carrying a hatchet
procession and sit on the banks of choice when it consecrated a bishop ... Finally, with this
nonsense of his wife, was the poor fish, not water, but stifled and bored. Who knew he had
gone to Carolina in the scouring of mysticism, and it was not work Lantigua Serafinita her cousin,
who enjoyed the view of saint. Speaking in silver, a premium was a calamity. In the church could
be seen daily at six o'clock and Serafinita Carolina, and there were dispatched to their liking.
At home, Mrs. Fish, sometimes changing the style threatening by comparison, for model put their children
under Luisito Sudre, the Telleria, he was a saint in milk, and already existed in their pink meat lashes.
The poor fish will consistently said that looking into the mirror D. Juan de Lantigua, the great
Catholic, great scholar and writer, so pious in theory and in practice, it did nothing contrary
dogma, nor their Christianity was of the formula, but sincere and real brave and straight, who
not ashamed to meet with the Church and to sit three hours on his knees beside the pious. It was not
like fish, the whole herd as moderate, which makes religion a ladder to climb to high places,
it was not like those men who get rich with assets Clergy and then preach Catholicism in Congress
to fool the fools, like those men leading to Christ on the lips and Lucifer in the heart, and believe
that giving some small rooms for the pope already been met. Farce, comedy, abomination!

Finally, D. Manuel had taken home abhorrence, and was on it at least possible. The peace did not exist
for him only in the office, which did nothing but smoke and receive
friends, and home of one of these, and Bringas, for example.

Oh, how I envied household peace D. Francisco and the sweet harmony between the characters of both
spouse! He had been happy in his time, but not anymore. Et in Arcadia ego. He was an outcast, a
banished, and asked him please to have affection and even cuddle him, to console of the troubled
life she led at home.

Pez had these things to Rosalia with great vehemence, and she listened with keenest interest
and pity.

Chatting, chatting, just felt the passing of the hours, and when the deep the shaded patio
out slow, mixed in a wet fresquecillo, when sunlight is dilated in the heights and the sky began
to nail the pale stars, D. Francisco, leaving the laborious hair, rubbing his eyes appeared, and
took part in the conversation.

XIV

From Augustine's cousin moved to Bordeaux, Rosalia not going
to the theater but later to time, occupying towns of sick friends
or those who are bored of repetition too much of a dramatic piece.

I do not remember if it was the Monday or Tuesday when Milagros had the grace to stay home.
D. Francisco went to these meetings with his wife, but felt so tired lately that Rosalia had to
go alone with Paquito. In May, the proximity examinations required the young discreet not to
abandon their studies, and then accompanied her mother to the door of the house Telleria,
turning to his fatigue and his books. Fish was in charge of carrying Mrs. Bringas the marital home
at noon or one night, and by the way, that from the first piece of the Atocha Street Palace not
very long, rarely leaving D. Manuel to sing the jeremiad of domestic disturbance. Every night,
pitiable recounted episodes, and able to move in the storms of compassion Rosalia chest.

When this arrived home, and Don Francisco, tired eyes and head for reading two or three newspapers
after the work of the cenotaph, had gone to bed and dozed coughing and snoring away the hours
with others.

After a tour of the nursery to see if they have enough clothes or Isabelita nightmare, chatted
a bit with Rosalia her husband, while he was dropping one by one their finery, their skirts and
corset that machine where their meat, imprisoned, very visible ways demanded freedom. Although
much had happy to go to the gatherings in Miracles, routine flatter her husband inspirábale concepts
something contrary to the truth, but rather it can be forgiven in favor of trials beautifully
exact about things and people was observed by her in the halls of Telleria.

"Son, if you do not return, I will not further. It annoys me the gathering of miracles which no you can
imagine ... That's not for me. You see some things ...! Of course
I laughed more ...!

Milagros poor, as is so confident with me, everything I know tells me his troubles as if I pass
it. It is a suffocating, and I do not know how that woman has a soul to receive people without possessing
means nothing. Tonight has not fuss over four, four rubbish ... Shame! Imagine saying that the
freeloaders will not go to those houses that to give them dinner ... Never have I seen a woman
over her chest. Had given the seven and still did not know how to fix the buffet. Sent to the cafe ...
is to laugh ... and would not fiarle twenty pounds of pasta. I do not know where he got that
sweet ham was all cuts and leftovers, and that boar's head that smelled of waste ... Finally,
sucks ... He had good wines, yes ... Who knows where it's been taken out, and who is sucker
that gave ... Apuradísima was poor, but how he hid ...! Do not believe, happy ever after, everyone
smiling, and when I went to was transformed and looked into a sea captain commanding the maneuver
in case of shipwreck. (Indignándose.) Ah, that Badulaque, zanganote that the Marquis is to
blame. Is committed to the eyes, and the day when Creditors throw up, no shirt will wear. Poor
Milagros is very good, is a soul from God, but we must recognize that it is spendthrift. If
they put thousand dollars in hand, it spends in a day like a hundred reals. I give advice, preach it,
we trace a plan, a method, but quia!, is useless. Sometimes it seems reformed, but goes, goes
through a store, see any rag, and my money goodbye ... loses his wits, gets the fever ... I
I mean, when I buy: "I jumped you will screw your head ..." And if you saw ...! Children pitiful.
Tonight I entered the room Leopoldito, and I say it looks like a screen of a shoe shop site,
the wall full of doodles stuck with wafers, scenes fights, cartoons from newspapers ... in short,
indecentísimo, and everything on the other hand, all stirred, much smell of drugstore potions,
because the guy is a little bit off; noveluchas of a peseta instead of textbooks, whips and sticks
in such numbers that would have to put store it; the unmade bed, because it had risen to six
in the evening ... There walked limping with broken boots, begging food and sweets and meats
peering that brought to pounce on them like a hungry ... Gustavo is another matter. What Formica
and how well educated! There he was arguing with men and throwing a lot of rumbling word ...
It seems to me a stuffed fraquito Scropp your premature baby, and when he speaks, as well
as when he walks, he seems to have been wound with a key ... Mary is what is being beautiful.
The Marquise does not present even to avoid the age, and give pain to see that fixie as developed
as ... Do not think, has more front than your mom ... see da pain stuck in there playing with
dolls, tangling with the issues raised or copying French. Pretty poor had to do tonight to watch
the brother does not metiese dirty hands in everything and not sobase lick candy and ice cream
... I took a bud that reeked of cod liver oil, and fixed fingers went around of Leopoldito.

"(Indignant
again.) But the Marquis ... Be a record! Who hears and does not know him, believes which is
the wisest man in the world. Speaks only of the Senate and the things he said or will say there.
What a golden beak! He would arrange all the affairs of Spain if he leave ... But as he is
not allowed, that the country is lost. He says the commission will absorb all the time ...
Opinion here, advice there ... Milagros told me that a few months this part is devoted to the
maids, and can not enter any house other than a fear of ugly. Finally, the Marquis, under that
gentleman capita, is a cesspool.

A I can not see me because you loose every indirect ... It disgusts me, and poor Milagros cause
me great pain. Poor woman, poor martyr! Imagine that your mariducho, as she says, the fourth
is always a question, and the unfortunate passing off to succeed Black with household spending.
So, no wonder the poor thing has had some distractions ... Not me who says, what others say, and
though I repeat with confidence, does not mean it that created it, because who knows if ...».

D.
Francisco, slept deeply and was so far from all the miseries counted as his wife is Heaven on
Earth.

XV

Not dealt with all the secrets on the same subject, that the fertile imagination of Rosalia instinctively
sought variety in those rations night lip service to that cooed a good husband. Always attentive
to sustain the role he represented and that from some time it required
great care, and depart every day more than a sincere expression of
his character, showed himself upset about things that actually produced
more pleased that penalty, verbi gratia:

"Oh, my son!, I thought
that our friend had no fish tonight to tell their monkey business
domestic.

Really, I have pity ... Sickness but what man and what organ of lamentation! Carolina does
not have God's forgiveness, and it could be amended, at least to
prevent migraines her husband gives us ...».

D. Francisco fell asleep before her. Sometimes Rosalia was sleepless and restless until very
Later, envying the sweet rest of that blessed, that lay on his conscience soft as an angel
in the clouds of glory. The ingenious lady was not softness similar but something hard and peaks
that were in distress all night. Because his passion estate had been imperceptibly to a field
fraught with danger, and had to hide acquisitions that made continuous
by the most anti-economic tradition Rosalia.

Her dresser drawers stuffed with pieces of cloth, they cut those be cut. World kept large trunk,
with suspicious discretion, several thousand species of harness, one old, retouched or new others, particularly
half done, revealing the sudden stop work by the presence of witnesses bothersome. Was necessary
to hide it to surveillance D. Tax Francisco that got it all, who
had questions for up to a cotton reel no budget in its spending plan.

Rosalia lies unveiled in mind that they to serve for the defense in case of surprise. What nonsense
would explain the large growth the richness and variety to your wardrobe? Because the crutch
of the gifts of the Queen was well spent and no longer could be used safely.

A D-Day Francis returned from the office earlier than usual, and was surprised to Rosalia more
fun in their work, running on the Camon, as if this were a workshop a dressmaker, and assisted
a seamstress who had brought home. Workshop seemed more Carrion Sobrino Hermanos branch.

«Buuut woman, what is it?" - Absorbed Thiers said, as someone who sees things supernatural or magical
and does not believe his eyes.

There were about twenty-four yards and Mozambique, for two pesetas rod, checkered nice and airy
fabric that Pipaón, in dreams, I saw every night on their flesh. The huge strip of cloth is dragged
across the room, climbed on chairs, hung arm of the sofa and lay on the ground to be broken
into pieces by scissors the officer, who, kneeling, consulted with
paper patterns before cutting.

Strips and powdered cuttings of the most bizarre geometric sections, cut on the bias, could be
seen on trunk awaiting the hand that would combine business with Mozambique. Pieces of shiny
satin brightly colored hot taps were not yet withdrawn from the palette, the good Bringas was
scattered throughout the piece, between evil twisted ribbons and
lace pieces.

The two women could not walk through there without their skirts are entangled in Mozambique and
twenty yards of navy blue poplin that had fallen from a chair and
was linked to foulard strips.

In that beautiful mess that smell out of clothes very special store, which is a remnant of the
industrial dye smells, mixed with paper and wooden packaging. On the couch, half a dozen colored
figurines lying occupied in the ladies impossible, reed-thin, stiff as sticks, whose feet are
the size of fingers hand, women whose mouth a red wafer, which appear dressed in paper and
look each other in face of idiocy.

To be caught in the act, the first impulse was to gather all Rosalia, but she ran out of time
and dread the same sugiriole an early exit, very subtle stroke of genius that understanding.

"Hush, man, by God - he said, putting his arm around her and gently sacándole Camon's not aware
that the dressmaker -. Is ... I thought you had told him last night. These dresses are in Miracles.
Yesterday, if you saw!, Had the poor a quarrel with that awful Marquis Caribbean. That if he was
the one spent, if she spent more, that if you, if I ... For some there is a tragedy. I was there
... and I tell you I was thinking send them to bring Arnica ... Milagros, now can not entrust anything
because Eponine her husband did not pay the bills, bought fabric and brought home as a seamstress
to take a couple of summer dresses ... What could be more natural? The poor are managed twenty-four
Mozambique yards, two ESP staff, and twenty of poplin, fourteen ...
You see how economy.

For anything that comes tagarote, which undoubtedly had lost hundreds of dollars to a jack, and the
same was to see the fabrics and dressmaker, begins to take by mouth
that heresies ... Holy Christ!

I stayed ... Nothing: everything is back to trample on the web and foot to figurines, saying:
Brrr ...!, whatnot. The poor little Milagros has ruined their rags. Have you seen what donkey? Then
he took off his stories, and catching the poor seamstress for a arm, stood in the street without
giving it time to put the blanket. Have you seen what piece of barbarian? ... Milagros fainted.
We had to apply ether and I do not know what else ... In order for it out of this commitment,
I had to bring me home fabrics and dressmaker work to do here.