 Requires that the girl takes a name, a name that no be ashamed
tomorrow, or these other day, Valdes, that might make a good marriage. To this there was no choice
but to pass by the Royal Creche. This has not been more painful for the mother, I know, that
... all of us. But in a few days the baptized and then I'll have to bring her here Mary Rule,
my woman, that three months it lost a son from the evil of the seven days, and breastfeeding in
order Creche mine. She will return healthy, and Christian save his mother's arms. I have a fixed
all that with Montes de Oca, a doctor from the Royal House, who often know by the girl. Al
beginning to cry a lot and refused to take the breast of Mary Rule, so enflaqueció a little.
But all that has happened and is now plump and rosy, that is, as I have been informed Montes de
Oca, because I have not seen since the night that I go through the turnstile ... My eyes went after
her. Words can not express how much I took that step ... But otherwise. You know, however,
that there is no mistake.

- Too much I know - said the mulatto wiping away tears. Can not err, no. For Regarding why I'm
quiet, like that in spite of her shrieks, which broke my heart, I made the blue crescent in
the left shoulder, according to Mr. I ordered. I do not know who would hurt more if her or me
... Mother, mother, my lord, is what got me restless. She can not resist. By force loses his mind
or life. I will repeat the Lord.

Josefa sign, as he called the stranger, knew he was smart woman, but by neglect of their education
often incurred in the common faults of the vulgar language the people in Cuba. Despite the maturity
of their years and their sorrows, retained samples a young beautiful and distinguished, kindly,
loving expression of the mouth and roundness neck, shoulders and arms. He had the sallow color
of the mixture resulting black female and a male Indian, but curly hair and oval face did not
support probability of such marriage, but the black mother and white father. When Young took
comfortable life, had joys and brushed with people well-bred and well-mannered. Honda had to
be the grief that at the time the afflicted, as were the frequency of sighs repeated contraction
of his eyebrows and the abundance of aqueous humor in their swimming big eyes and dimmed the
brightness. Moreover, his attitude was more despair than true regret. Indeed, as we shall
see, had every reason for one and not missing for that.

It had moments that both characters were silent, each in turn with their own thoughts, insurance that
did not coincide at any point in time that they heard a moan and a piercing scream hatched inside the
house