 Virgen de la Candelaria! Run you, man, you run!

And the goalkeeper was headed, step between steps, the guard cell, and five minutes after upper
back with the license, his paternity was not to antagonize the ogre
insides desire pregnant.

- You can put the girl's will with all the
holy family.

And another lego assumed the duties of guide and Cicero

Of course, in many cases the stomach was sticking, that is, roll of
cloth, but or guardian or keeper could get to find out.

For them it was vaulted belly passport in order.

And in the convents of friars went to the monasteries of nuns, and
each returning visit home the girl on the whim bearing flowers, cherries
and apricots, scapulars and pills.

The participating comrades also of blessed bread.

And the procession in Lima lasted a month at least.

An archbishop, to stop the abuse and not daring to break away from usual provided that the capricious
Lima seek the license, not monastic authority, but of the curia,
but as he had to spend on a piece of paper stamped and signed application
and return the next day by the decree, started to decrease cravings.

His successor, Mr La Reguera, cut the root of the evil one no answer
to the first round neighbor who was with the effort.

- What if unfavorably,
illustrious sir? - Insisted the candidate.

- That I do not understand,
my dear, I'm no midwife, but archbishop.

And the good news is that there is a tradition that has aborted Lima not walk cloisters.

* * *

Among the manuscripts at the Royal Academy of History in Madrid, form the collection of Matalinares,
curious file documents relating to America, there is one (notebook 3 º of Volume LXXVII) codex
is just an excerpt of a process that Peru gave reason the girl's whim.

Keeper of the Recoleta of Cajamarca was, for the years 1806, Fray Fernando Jesus Arce, who, contrary
to the archbishop and disciplinary provision, given to allow the walk around Christian cloister
to the ground asked him the delicate ailment. The authority was civil or did not do their reasons for
seeking to heel, and armed process and fat.

Commissioner General's father supported the father Arce, presenting, among other arguments, the
following that, in his view, was crucial and decisive: - The conservation of the fetus is natural
right and the precept of positive law is closing, and the latter
would not be considered charitable exposing a woman to abortion.

Arce's father said to him was a matter of conscience consent to the whim feminine as once refused to
grant a license acontecióle that, three days, he presented the girl's fancy carrying the fetus
in a jar and blaming him for their misfortune. He added the father Arce that he had to go another little
soul in limbo, he was not with livers for an ugly pregnant woman cravings.

The vicar foreign men was seen in a hurry to give his ruling, and
requested the opinion of Matalinares, who was the then prosecutor
of the Audiencia of Lima.

Said Matalinares not the risk of the fetus, but corrupt and considerations of convenience or
privileges Apostolic for certain persons of distinction, had tolerated
the entry of women at close of regular, and the cravings that was
grid and concern.

In short, I ended view that it would prevent the father commissary general ordered the guardian
of the Recoleta pretext for any visits thereafter consented to skirts, under the penalties designated
by the Bull of Benedict XV, promulgated in January 3, 1742.

The vicar, as authorized by relying on opinion, ruled against the keeper, but this is not given
by defeat, and appealed to the bishop, who confirmed the decision.

Fray Fernando Arce Jesus was headstrong, and said at first that they
disregarded the mandate come until the Pope himself, but his friend,
the general curator, got appease saying

- Reverend Father, better
skill than strength.

For the question above all is self-love it will be safe and not adhering
to compliance.

Arce's father was thoughtful one minute, and then sticking a slap on the forehead as who has
been at the crux of intricate matter, said:

- Cabalito! That's it!

And in the act made formal renunciation of guardianship, and not for another office with owl
sending little souls in limbo.

THE GOOD FRIDAY Llorona

TRADITIONAL ANTIQUE TABLE MANNERS

Existed in Lima, until fifty years ago, a women's scribbled all pilongas to wrinkles and poor louse,
whose office was to whine and throw tears as chickpeas. What a bitch profession and evil thing!
What is unique is that every member was old as sin, ugly as a gossip and quilted witches and
hoodlums. In Spain dábanlas the plañidoras name, but in these kingdoms of Peru are baptized with the
pain or crying.

The colonial government did its best to banish them, I'll try a side or regulation duels that
Viceroy Teodoro de Croix sent enact in Lima dated August 31 1786, and have had opportunity
to read in volume XXXVIII of Various Papers Library National. It says at face value, Article
12 of the side: "The use of crying or plañidoras, as opposed to the
maxims of our religion as contrary to law, is perpetually outlawed
and abolished the contrevening imposing the sentence of one month
of service in a hospital, or bakery house of mercy.

" It seems that this camp was like many others, dead letter.

As soon died neighbor who leave finance to pay a decent funeral, when the executor and relatives
were poured through the streets in search of more fame llorona, which was responsible to hire
the gossips who had to accompany. The stipend, as says an old I have consulted cento was four
pesos for the mourner in chief and two for each subordinate.

And when the mourners, casting of lavish, adding some realejos on
price rate, then the sore were also forced to do something extraordinary,
and this thing was to accompany the crying with patatuses, epileptic
seizures and Repelon.

Them together with the so-called ax poor, who attended with a candle in hand, waiting to the
church door and out of the body to give vent to his grief contraband.

Say what you want against them, but what I contend is that the money
earned conscience.

Tell them so trained that it seems as if carried inside the body a Store tears they were so good fake,
thanks to the record of spending by eyes fingers dipped in juice of garlic and onions. Frequently,
and had known them to scatter as the Moor Muza, and lying was a glad exalting between sighs and sorrows
the qualities of the deceased.

- Ay, ay! So generous and charitable! - And that was in the drawer had been usurious nothing less.

-
Ay, ay! So brave and courageous! - Had tied the unfortunate consequence
of the gear evil of terror that caused the elves and penalties.

-
Ay, ay! So honest and good Christian! - And the deceased had been
for his tricks and so calloused that brought consciousness worthy
to die in high position, ie on the gallows.

And this tone were the lamentations.

Did not end here the mission of the mourners. There was still the tail to be skinned, that
is, the ceremony receiving the mourning house of the deceased for
thirty nights.

Enlutábanse draped black, block room, shining a beacon or windshield covered with a veil that
barely left guessing light or oil light a moth bouncing something
like hint of clarity, but actually served only to make the darkness
more terrifying.

From seven in the evening the friends of the deceased in the room fell silent and were seated without
a word.

A duel was in plain consecration of dumb.

The block was the headquarters of the skirts and fleas.

The men imitated friends not to move their lips, which, all things considered, should be harsh
penance for the daughters of Eve. Only to blow it lawful for them weeping loudly and launch from time
to time one oh Jesus! or cavernous breath, which seemed to complain of another world.

Silly scenes happened in the games.

A mischievous, for example, long half-dozen of mice on the block,
and then arming of screaming, running, screaming and tantrums.

Fortunately, at the stroke of eight reception ended: here were the troubles between women. None
wanted to be the first to get up. This act was called breaking the buck.

In the end it was decided to give this show some courage, and approaching the inconsolable not
always widow, he said:

- How you be! God's will be done.

Be satisfied, my daughter, that he is among saints and resting in this ungrateful world. Do not
give the penalty, that is offending who can do anything.

And all would leave with the same litany.

When the family returned to offer his condolences, of course we put
on the table to the widow and competition, and cut the girls, with
the scissors that God gave them, a gorgeous tunics.

What is a grandmother or an aunt, who had the runny nose from going to meet the widow asked.

-
Who broke the buck?

- Doña Stateira, the wife of a notary.

- She had to be, the scoundrel!

It is ... a woman who has the courage to call Stateira! ...

For more than cavilo I fail to realize why this grumbling. Caramba! I guess that a visit should
not be eternal, and someone has to lead by example in taking the road the door, and that no
offense against God or neighbor called Stateira.

On each night the police car received a penny columnar and a chocolate muffin. And do not forget
that lasted a month fair bargain.

Only in the death of the children had no role to play the mourners. Already go! Angels in Heaven!

But
among all plañidoras had one that was more, the ne plus ultra of the genre, and only deigned
to attend funeral of viceroy, of bishops or very exalted personages. Distinguished with the title
of the weeping of Good Friday. The people called it by another name which, not blush to our
readers, we at the bottom of the inkwell.

Thus, it was said: - The funeral of Mr. John Doe has been of good
best.

To tell you girl until the police car was on Good Friday the church door!

To me there is only a desecration than this, and is performed annually in large cities, to walk
or pilgrimage, in November, the cemetery is undertaken.

Vanity of the living and not the sorrow of the bereaved is who that
day decorating the graves with flowers, ribbons and symbolic crowns
.-- What would they say about us? - say the loving relatives -.

It should others see that we spend estate -. And I found vanity even in death, says more learned
from books.

The gravestones are the subject of derision and defamation in that pilgrimage.

- Man! - Says one lad to another chisgarabís of braising, by reviewing
the tablets -.

Look who's here ... La Carmencita ... Do not you remember, boy? ... Which was dear to me cousin,
the banker, and cost an arm and a leg ... Girl very charitable ... and pretty, that yes, only
he painted eyebrows and pursed her mouth to hide a chipped tooth .-- Precious Crown will have
to don Melquiades! Best put his wife in life .-- Good mausoleum has
Junipero gift!

Could be better, that's why he stole a lot when he was Minister of Finance! Valiente rascal!
- Look at the epitaph that have made Mr. Milo, who was but a donkey
with gold hardware and silver saddle.

Call fount of knowledge and wisdom in this great Crab! - Great Fox was Dona Remedios! I met a
whole lot. As it almost had an affair with her husband Juan Lanas! - I did not know he had already
killed the Marquis of Algarrobo. Good old has gone to the hole! As it was a contemporary of
the spurs of Pizarro! - Geez!

Here's a dedicated patriot, those who give wing to eat the breast and they know take advantage
of any calamity.

And just to show of irreverent gossip. These slanderers hair comes to the couplet popular:

The shoe bring broken, how it remedaré? With peaks that spread gossip
that is not.

The real pain flees from the noise.

Go for a walk to the cemetery the day of deceased for viewing and
be seen, by the thing - where are you going Vincent?, where are all
the people - as will the plaza de toros, for novelty and for killing
time, is to commit the most disgusting and stupid sacrilege.

Let alone the dead and return to the mourners.

Parents of Mercy, in competition with what were the Augustinians Eve, drew Good Friday procession
in a litter with the tomb of Christ, and behind them and surrounded by many devout, was a disheveled
woman, yelling, cursing Judas, Caiaphas, Pilate and all the executioners,
and the funny thing is that, without being shocked soul living throwing
the Jews as risqué apostrophes point as the children call them ...
the bad word.

In the chapel of Vera Cruz also came at eleven at night, the famous procession Minerva, which,
as everyone knows, were sponsored by the noble descendants of the
companions Pizarro, who was the founder of the noble brotherhood and
got sent to the Pope for a piece of the true church lignun Cross,
relic that still retain the Dominicans.

But this procession was all severity, while luxury and grandeur. The aristocracy never gave room for
the mourners, leaving the popular motif for the procession of Our
Lady of Mercy.

Archbishop Bartolomé María de las Heras had not enjoyed
such masquerades, and the first year, which was the 1807, where he
attended the procession, into the street, stop litter ordered to withdraw
this outrageous woman with no respect for the sanctity of the day
dared to pronounce curses unclean.

Would you believe that the people
crowded around to stop it? For as it sounds. No missing rather than
detract from the procession it eliminates the whining!

The shrewd
archbishop smiled, accepting the will of the people ordered to take
its course the procession, but in the next year to ban all such fortitude
to Mercy desecration.

Regarding the burial plañidoras, they molt
for a few years.

As seen in this light box, if there in Lima office
was productive of the mourners. But then came the homeland with all
its train of wickedness, and from then gives creeps die, then takes
a neighborhood to move certain that does not have to mourn in order.

To
the crybabies we have replaced with something worse if it ... with
the obituaries in the newspapers.

A SWIM, FISH! 

It is possible
that some of my readers have forgotten that the area where today stands
the railway station in Lima to Callao was not remote days the church,
convent and parents of Saint John of God Hospital.

At the time of
Viceroy Avilés, ie at the beginning of the century, existed in the
above Convent of San Juan de Dios a layman and advanced in years,
known among the people with the nickname of the father Carapulcra,
as he was the damage came on his face did smallpox.

Carapulcra father
enjoyed the reputation as a man of very sharp wit, and he attributed
many popular proverbs and sayings spicy.

Although the brothers hospital
had made vows of poverty, our lay not so bald had not buried in a
corner of his cell, five thousand dollars in gold ounces.

Gatherings
at the convent was a lad, of those who used gold earring in left ear
and looked Philippine silk handkerchief in the pocket of his jacket,
talking lisp, and that were in the revels of dompreciso mediopelo,
which sucked more than sponge and strumming a great time, doing wonders
that the strings of the guitar