 What puzzled him most was the uncanny speed, impatience fatal that rushed
over him so many disappointments, so much bitterness, which gave no time to find encouragement and
hope in his mind and heart.

He entered the house, and slowly climbed the stairs of the Eighteenth Century house. Could not
without a sense of respect for those three ladies, for still unknown him, he looked like three perfect
models of virtue. Touched, and opened one of them. Decoration affected him a bit: the historical portraits
of the hall looked at him with her eyes all moth-eaten. Lazarus was afraid. Preceded by Paz,
among those passed through the dim shadows the hall was more mysterious,
and entered the room.

CHAPTER XXIII

# The Inquisition. #

When Coletilla after installed on the second floor, the ladies said the probability that his
nephew was to live with him, Salome was a little pensive, but Mary of the Paz said there was no
problem, provided the young, under the supervision and guidance of his uncle, was to have the
restraint and dignity that the house imposed on its inhabitants.

Lazarus, preceded by Maria de la Paz, entered the room. The first thing that caught his eye was to
Clara, who was sitting next to the devout and sewed his head down,
not daring to look to anyone.

She saw his confusion and his efforts to conceal it. Then he looked around and saw his uncle,
sat respectfully beside Salome, whose real were planted at the eastern end Maria de la Paz. Lazarus
he saw them all motionless as stick figures, all watching him, except Clara, who insisted on bringing
both eyes to work, it was difficult to understand how not kept one
eye with the needle.

Elias Lazarus looked in amazement. Peace with astonishment, Salome with amazement, all with astonishment
and he came to believe it was a ghost evoked, the fearful nephew Coletilla spectrum. Salome pointed
to a chair with his finger when he had the rings, and Peace said the registration most contemptuous
voice and August:

- Sit down, young gentleman.

When the young man said "thank you,
ma'am," his voice sounded weak and painful, so much suffering announcing
and prostration, which Clara could not help looking up and feeling
him with sudden interest. She found him pale and dejected, and knew
what had happened in those unhappy days and took all the effort that
brave soul was able to keep from mourn as a fool in the presence of
those three ladies and furious rigid Coletilla.

- Since these ladies
know what you did to get to Madrid - Elias said his nephew with great
severity