 And so the king had decreed that completely
  desist from this business, if the Indians wanted, because
  I knew enough from experience the Spanish, who wanted no luck
  Tapes lease its land, for that too was deemed available to the
  withdrawal. No However, putting more stubborn Frire Gomez, remained
  another month in the strange land, fortified the hills, but saw
  in his presence all the army of the Indians opposed to him, and
  stubborn not to yield. It also suffered not a little the Portuguese,
  so that they went from here to there looking buds palms, and the
  remains of tigers, and even by those things were killing each
  other's hungry, and it was said that Thus 69 had perished. Nor
  forgive the Indians, to the who were misguided because any party
  that found, killed with spears and cutlass: over 50 and died
  on the 4th of October. We have said that, having out the red
  flag or banner of war, and having saved after six Indians have
  good wins over the hills to the fight, dare to provoke the
  enemy, forming their squads. He left the Portuguese of the differences,
  and then showed the white flag, but did not dare to depart the margin
  of the hill and take the field. Meanwhile requested should come
  and talk some MPs, and were sent five Michael, and as the institute
  wanted Portuguez long talk, human and annoying, the envoys stopped,
  and said: - "That one of two, or they could go to their lands,
  or that if they had so eagerly of them, go out to field because
  the Indians were ready to conclude the business with sword.
  "Reuse the fight and said they would return would have the answers
  after the Spanish, and because collected to its mountains, and also
  had spent most the river, leaving 30 hombree guard at the pass,
  Tapes retired to their real.
  
  57. But here was raised among themselves a living contest. The three
  villages companies they reasoned that only The Michael had come
  to speak with the Portuguese, that only they had the conference
  among themselves, and the Portuguese, that he spent time lately,
and not missed or forced the enemy to retreat, with a thousand other
things to complain: and therefore to fly back to stay in their peoples.

  While thus converted to heat your business differences, arrived
  at time D. Nicolas Nenguirú, sugeto main town of Concepcion,
  which had been elected Captain General of common consent, this gave
  birth the hope of harmony, and seemed to take strength. As to 21
  were discordant, determined the invasion to day 22, which not having
  put in egecucion, some captain named Philip, went again to call
  the Gentiles Minuanes and guano, to be confederate with them,
  and with it came 12 to explore the real enemy. And then,
  having considered the aspect of things, promised that they
  were to going to bring 260 of his armed men, with their captain
  José, provided that the people should give them 100, and stays as
  many sumps bolts to use.
 