 The awe with which everyone will look, taste that all you hear, makes looks
funny, but it is not. But it is, and no doubt it is. I, for example, I heard from a man very
rich all over rude and dirty beads referring the farmhands of my land, and that not even the lure
of novelty for me or should have for anyone, and yet I laughed like a fool, I have done very
much, and I have found attic full in the mouth of the Lord. I also believe that indeed they were, because
I did not move to reírlos or celebrate with false laughter, or by interest. Security superiority,
quiet magnetism that having money brings, produced this phenomenon.

Not surprising, then, that the rich are loved and admired. On the day of love more disinterested
than before. Never, for example, fewer men have been held by women at this time, the exception under
the legal form, though awkward, the coburguismo. In other ages it was common, almost universal,
and not bad watched the illegitimate coburguismo male, from Cyrus the Younger to Epiaxa, Queen
of Cilicia, woman is to believe and buxom, that hero who drew a lot of money, to the gallant knights
of the court of Louis XIV and Louis XV.

What is the female coburguismo, legitimate or illegitimate, is still at an early age as the world
from Raab and Delilah to the graceful and elegant Cora. This is more excusable coburguismo than the male.
Lope de Vega he apologized saying

      
    There was fierce poor Lucretia That, to
    give Don Tarquin thousand reais She was softer and less silly.

And Ariosto, with the caption precious dog, inserted in Orlando, I apologize more. I do not
apologize, but I apologize, but not only by the selfless love and
admiration sincere infuses the rich man, and not a beast, even in
the choicest souls and nobles.

The rich man then makes a great connoisseur of fine arts and literature,
and protects, mimicking Lorenzo the Magnificent and Maecenas, and
beautifies your home decorating with superb monuments, as Herodes
Atticus, and does, finally, a hundred thousand other benefits