 He left the village and went to approach him. "Yes - I thought - here
something missing: missing a voice.

"

Reached that supreme moment of popular unrest in which mobs stop silent, altered the thousands of hearts
by a single, deep fear, upset the thousand head with a single doubt. Missing a single voice say what
we all feel. Right now solemn is when we see a body raised on thousands of bodies and extended
a trembling hand on many heads. A voice expresses what so many brains struggle to acquire forms
oral, that voice tells what a crowd can not say, because the crowd that works as a one body with determination
and security, has no other voice than the wild consists of endless
rumor and uneven sound.

When the man spoke, the crowd said he had to say, the crowd known, has been able to collect
and consolidate their forces, has acquired what he had: awareness
and unity.

It is no longer a set of blind forces inorganic: it is an intelligent body whose activity tends
to a fixed object, good or bad, but which is moving with determination and knowledge.

This thought Lazarus. Could it be that means of expression? Would the developer of that Word
blind and unconscious body? Would you talk or not talk? The swirling mass and therefore stretched
by the square of the Angel. Lazarus remained as fascinated, then
pulled away with afraid of her and himself.

But I could not be resolved to retire. Would you talk or not? We would hear insurance. Why
not, if he would say such beautiful things? He was sure that I would say. The words he said
were written in letters of fire in space.

And the portrait progressed led by four members of the Fontana. The music played, the crowd around
the canvas, and all without moving forward, ranging without elaborating, writhed confused. Surely
something was missing. Lazarus was mixed into the vortex.

His eyes sparkled with extraordinary brilliance, his concern was a seizure, his agitation a fever,
your Look lightning.

Cruzábanle the mind strange and sublime forms of eloquence latíale the heart with unbridled
speed, his temples were burned, and felt a vibration in her throat sound, which only needed a little
air to be robust and eloquent voice.

He saw that lifted the portrait, which the crowd swirled in endless circuits and saw agitated
in the air crowd of white handkerchiefs coming out of the turmoil as a foam.

The disorderly procession went down the street from Atocha and entered
the Plaza Mayor.

There spread a little. But then tried to cross the street arc to enter the Bitterness in silver.
The great monster was measured at a glance the number of its members multiplied arch width
and the way he had to pass. The camel was going to go through the eye of the needle. There was
a convulsive movement of elbows, and the abdomens became depressed, turned the bodies and some
hats jumped impelled by the impact and shock of many heads. Some voices tried to pronounce an order
to overcome this difficulty, a problem of obstetrics no doubt.

- In front of the portrait. Pass up the portrait - said. It was impossible, people flocked to
Thus, the portrait could not happen. Finally, after long efforts, the picture passed the arc. Behind
the more confusion was the great mass of people. The crowd that filled the square was standing
and waiting. The portrait and its lackeys resulted in the High Street; but once there, unparalleled
surprise stopped the procession. Two rows of soldiers were in Platerías, reaching beyond the
square of the town. The stakes of a squad lances gleaming in the distance, and before the troops
were, Captain General of Madrid, horseback, waiting with great poise
and courage.

This man came, followed by two or three, and pointing with his sword, summoned the removal
order to the portrait. There was a quick consultation of glances between them. A civil authority
also approached and said the best manners to leave everyone to his
house and to give up the demonstration, because the government was
determined to not go one step further.

The appearance of a vivid impression to the troops the portrait,
besides, they had the help of Sagunto regiment and the regiment Sagunto
was locked and well guarded in their barracks.

They tried, however, move on, and said that this demonstration was
purely moral, not trying to cause any disturbance, nor was aggressive
attitude, or were more object of admiration paid tribute to the hero
who gave freedom to his country.

"Every man to his house! Behind
the portrait," Morillo said resolutely.

The defense was impossible.
The procession had no weapons.

The alleged weakness of the government
had turned to unwavering firmness