 For
now, the above is enough to have a general idea.

       

* * * * *

CHAPTER III.

GENEVA.

Not without reason said Voltaire, highlighting the physical smallness in contrast to Geneva their
high social value, that "when he shook his wig in the city, covered with dust throughout the
city. "Never a handful of soil enclosed in so narrow horizons was more charming their looks,
or more broadly productive for civilization, for his eminent geniuses secular efforts in the
service of freedom.

In my trips in Europe I have not visited people who have inspired me so much sympathy as Geneva
in Switzerland and the Basque in Spain. It is really extraordinary social phenomenon so that
moral greatness relative contained in an enclosure, so narrow, almost microscopic, which is
the city or federal state Geneva.

By virtue of the recent annexation of Savoy to France (which has been one of those acts of justice
and progress that diplomacy is often contestable consumption through) the city of Geneva is now completely
wedged between French border curve, whose circle is not interrupted only by the waters of Lake
Geneva and the southern tip of the canton of Vaud, one of the most extensive and prosperous of
the Confederation. Measure the area around Geneva 33 km at its greatest length from east to west
by 15 miles wide, of south to north, containing the total area of ??242 square kilometers. The
climate is generally soft and gentle, given consideration to the latitude and the topography
of the country round; their land is very fertile, but skilled and fully grown, their horizons reduced
but remarkably beautiful and seductive.

The city of Geneva is just a maximum elevation of 375 meters above sea level, allowing you
to not only populate their terms of harvest, fruits and vegetables, but also cultivate their
graceful vines, which give the landscape in lakeshore in the nearby hills and valleys of the
Rhone and the Arve, a melancholy seduces and captivates, the happier side of the countryside.

Since
the city itself, up to the towers of his cathedral, which from the top of its hill dominates
the landscape as the watchman of the lake, register with the eye throughout of Canton, as well as skirts
and spurs more or less distant from the mountains Savoy setentrional (Faucigny) and the Jura.
To the south are the valleys of the Rhone and the Arve, which merge at a short distance from Geneva,
turning downward direction or the Savoy provinces of Annecy and Chambery, and dominated by the
buttresses Alpine Jurassic, boasting basins in the graces of artificial vegetation and grasslands,
high curves pine forests and some populations groups. To the east, a succession of gentle slopes
and hills starts from the bank of the lake to go and stop raising enough to walking distance
Voirons chain, undulating and covered with meadows that have replaced the ancient forests of
the western side, but his abrupt and severe wild vegetation on the
opposite side.

This string is the end of the rough and rugged mountain system of the former provinces of Chablais
and Faucigny, between the valley of the Arve and Lake Leman.

To the west, the inclined planes, their narrow valleys, hills, steep slopes and finally the
towering hills are beautiful and choppy happening in amphitheatres, from waves of the lake just highlights
of the Jura ridges. All that picture topo-orographic is a wonderful effect, in contrast, or
rather, matching the lake as if the background is the long narrow blue surface, but holds above
the belt of vineyards, of joyous orchards, farms and capricious funny sowings multicolored belt
up enough to fit into the framework bleak, superbly majestic high Jurassic vegetation (Forests of pine
and spruce) and composition of the limestone rocks in some excel peaks. Finally, north swell,
from irregular contour lines, light waves, wonderfully transparent blue of the lake, sometimes
violently shaken by hurricanes that blow in the Alps, some asleep and murmuring, moaning often
under the keel of any steam or brigantine, immobile like a huge mirror that reflects all the
splendor of the blue sky and infinite depths. And these waves, which always snatch or captive,
they will stop at the picturesque setting of the banks and hills
of the canton of Vaud, ground wave of gleaming vegetables.

Lake Geneva or Leman is, without doubt, the most beautiful and useful than those contained
Switzerland scarcely rivaled by Constance under the commercial point of view. Taking full the
form of an arc or crescent, the ends bent to E. and SO are in Villanueva (Villeneuve) and
Geneva, ie towards the entrance and exit of the Rhone, their narrow banks among Ivoire (Savoy setentrional)
and the line that determines the small long and narrow gulf. The top is called the "great lake",
the lower the "little lake" or the Geneva itself. Its greatest length is 71 kilometers and maximum
width from 14 to 4 km between Evian (port and small town of Savoy) and Morges, Canton villa Vaud,
containing a total area of ??1.430 square kilometers. The depth varies much, because in the middle
reaches of the lake to 350 meters (in a lake whose prodigious mountains more neighbors are low
in general), whereas among never exceeds Nion and Geneva of 97 meters.

Around

the lake abounds in fish (30 species) and birds of species much more numerous; fisheries offering
lucrative occupation for many people. The waters are turquoise blue admirable perhaps unparalleled,
and this transparency is reached to the bottom clearly visible to many meters. This enormous
depth, unique phenomena of the current interiors, and the action of the opposing winds that
dominate the lake, preventing the water never freeze, even in the most rigorous winters, except
at the edges, where they accumulate frosts. There is no report that the total freezing occurred
but twice in the eighth and ninth centuries.

The storms of the lake are terrible and sometimes fatal, but the phenomena of calm and violence,
flood and decreases in volume, occur and occur with extraordinary quickly. Forty-two rivers flowing
into the banks of Lake Geneva, soft, sandy setentrional side, Rocky, steep and heavily steep side of Savoy.
Of these rivers the most significant are: the Rhone, of course, that alone amounts to as many others,
and Dranzer (Not to be confused with the Dranzer tributary of the Rhone), river ride after the
rough mountains Alps, flows between Thonon and Evian. The same Rhône is the only outlet Lake,
escaping as a wide ribbon lazuli, at the height of 368 meters above sea level the sea, through Geneva,
which circumstance derives its name from the city, according to the etymology Celtic gin, output,
and v, rio.

It's so huge mass of granite and limestone sand and silt that accumulates in the Leman Rhone, towards
entry and exit, which every day grow dangerous banks near Geneva, and the waters recede from
Villanueva, emerging alluvial plain in the extreme superior, while the waves invade the shore setentrional
or the canton of Vaud. It is curious to contrast the upper and lower Rhône: the first, throwing
over the basin their overflowing lake gray mud, the second coming of purified lake and clear,
as if to symbolize the purity of morals and clarity of the free institutions Geneva and Vaud.
This circumstance, which also shows in other lakes, such as Brienz and Thun, is explained by the
existence, at bottom, a purifying substance and dye which acts as a powerful reagent.

The navigation of Leman is active, extensive and very valuable.

Besides the countless shelves feluccas or that people all crowded ports, and particularly the
docks and Vevey Geneva extensive, sailing in all directions steamships, whose movement is constant,
for single passenger transportation [2]. As freight traffic (regardless of the numerous fishing
boats) is made of three kinds of sailing ships, brigs, full-bridge boats and garages, or boats
in a unique manner, discovered large part and for the transportation of timber, fuel and building
materials.

[2] The first steam, with the glorious name of William Tell, was thrown into the water in Geneva
in 1823. The date is significant.

The Republic of Geneva, which for centuries was limited to the city of that name, it increased
in 1816, treaty of Vienna and Paris that fifteen districts annexed Savoyards and six French. The
canton's population has risen (in 1860) to 83.345 inhabitants, of which more than 9,000 are citizens of
other States of the Confederation, and about 12,000 foreigners - French Today in greater numbers.
The capital alone has 41.415 inhabitants, making Geneva first city in Confederation. Although
the State two-thirds of the inhabitants profess reformed religion or ritual called a Calvinist,
and Roman Catholics make up, with 1.000 Jews, the other third, in the most reformed capital is not in
the same proportion. For the rest, but at every step is heard in the talks on German-Swiss accent,
Italian, English (by the abundance of travelers), and even the Romans themselves, the dialect
spoken in the Graubünden, French is the official and common to all people.

Geneva has had a history as stormy and difficult as fruitful, suffering, like all peoples of the
race of the Allobroges, invasion and subsequent domination of the Romans, Barbarians V century,
the Burguiñones, Ostrogoths and Franks, the Swiss and Savoyards same and lately the French
Republicans in 1798. Dominated by the Romans until the year 426, was alternately in the capitals
of the Burguiñones, then capital of the kingdom of the Franks until the mid-ninth century, and
the second kingdom of Burgundy until almost mid of XI, owned by the successors of Charlemagne, falling
under the authority after more alternative even their sovereign bishops and the counts and
dukes of Savoy, which was contested between itself with tenacity,
no less than to Geneva them.

If from the beginning of the sixteenth century the village began to fight for their independence
against bishops and counts, religious reform he said was the civil autonomy, as well as their emancipation
from Rome. Thanks to Calvin, who regularized the motion and consolidated their results, Geneva
became the metropolis of Reformed Protestantism and the base of the organization Republican southern
Switzerland [3]. Admire the energy with which this small town, surrounded by enemies and isolated
from their fortifications, could enforce their nationality until 1798, serve as a safe haven to
all the proscribed and persecuted on the mainland, even in the presence the powerful Louis XIV,
and glorify as fertile center of civilization, economic activity and literary propaganda, political
and religious. By putting his foot in Geneva on the shores of the lake, you can not unless
alternatives are adjacent to the island microscopic big bridge, called Jean-Jacques Rousseau,
the point is not far to indicate the situation of Ferney, in one of the slanted back toward
the Jura, and high eminences Saussure to climb the barometer in his hand - objects that evoke the
glories conspicuous of literature, philosophy and science, which
has had enviable Geneva part.

[3] However, fighting continued until 1602, when the Duke of Savoy lost all Ginevra hope of recovering.
Mamelukes then called themselves supporters of Bishops and counts, and Eigenossen oath or allies,
advocates of independence.

That name German, pronounced higene, gave rise to the Huguenots, to be called to the Calvinists
or reformed.

Since the mid-sixteenth century until 1816 Geneva was not without its independence but for the
sixteen or seventeen years of French domination, to which the stream could not resist or the
greatest empires. Built to the Swiss Confederation fall Napoleon Genevan republic continued its
old place, governed by institutions that are away enough of democracy and religious tolerance.
Calvin's footprint had been deeply etched in the Athens of Reformed Protestantism. Walking time,
the class highest in the country had formed an aristocracy or oligarchy intolerant and privileged
and its power to destroy the village launched a fierce struggle, manifested by revolutions
more or less incomplete and not very fruitful in 1830, 41 and 43,
to succeed definitely 46.

The radical organization data 47, and in the thirteen years of popular government and free
Geneva has since made the most beautiful achievements in the way of the progress.

The government of that state is democratic, representative. Any citizen over 21 years is vote and
stand. The Constitution guarantees to all citizens full freedom of religion and cultured [4]
and of the press, traffic, industry, education, the petition and association, the inviolability
of the home and correspondence. There does not encroach upon the authority with its regulations,
the field of activity and individual right, but why they lack effective protection to the primary
education and training, public welfare, the means of communication and some other objects
of interest first. As citizens know that power rests in their hands, in his opinion, the press
has the most notable activity and range to serve all interests, and boards and corporations of
all kinds are numerous and frequent. The principle of association is the most fruitful applications
in politics as in literature, commerce, industry, etc. Perhaps, with the exception of Stuttgart
and Leipzic, German cities of advertising whose movement is vast,
there is no European city ??that, relative to their proportions, is
making a very extensive, varied and fruitful the press, such as Geneva.

[4]

Except, unfortunately, to the Jews.

The Canton is governed under the principle of complete separation of powers, although all stemming
from the popular vote, directly or indirectly, and the municipal system is very free. Legislative
power is exercised around the Canton an Assembly or Grand Council of the biennial election and
popular, which consists of 93 members. The executive is in charge of a Council of State whose
members, of equal length, are appointed by the Grand Council. In Geneva there troops permanent
and military hierarchies. All citizens from 20 to 50 years are members of the State militia,
who serves as the authority flame, and from whose leaves an annual quota for the modest federal army.
No gendarmerie, the police are invisible, distinctive because it has none, or inconvenient
for those who make use of its right, nor is it feel but providing effective services. If any crime
is committed on the street, all the world lends his voluntary basis to the authority to suppress and
apprehend the culprit. In fact, police in Geneva is the work of citizens, and it is they who,
guided the common interest of freedom and honor of the state, maintain the most perfect order,
in harmony with the most complete personal liberty as may be innocent and logical. In all
public places in Geneva is a table or cartulon with this caption: "While public trips destined
to the usefulness and pleasure of all, the Administrative Council (The city) put them under
the protection of citizens. "There is in these words admirable simplicity, of which the Genevans
are very worthy, a theory teaching or deep and universal moral and political, economic and
social legislation and historical philosophy.

If the Geneva Village ethnography explains the predominance in him and in all its manifestations
literature, French language, his political genius, industrial and social institutions correspond
to a curious amalgam of different elements. European migrations of people superiors, attracted
to Geneva by the freedom that the Republic guarantees in times of universal despotism (but
the old distinction of five classes of Geneva) have With it the blood and genius of other
peoples, so that the names abound German, Italian, English and even Spanish, and the types of different
races, more or less confused. This gives a remarkable Ginevra cosmopolitan character. Nowhere is there
more so obvious that the phenomenon of social physiology - so prevalent in the world and almost
HOWEVER long forgotten by history - the moral transformation of a race almost solely by virtue
their institutions.

City at one time reduced by the needs of defense, the insulation material within its ramparts
and fortresses, Geneva has become cosmopolitan then - all shelter idea of ??every man proscribed
and persecuted - welcoming all the good of civilization, practicing resolutely democracy, penetrating
all spheres of intellectual activity going to look up in the New World, the modern formula of penal
philosophy. Essentially Race French by origin, language and traditions, the people have the qualities
Geneva without the shortcomings of French genius. It has the spirit of research, analytical simultaneously
and generalizing the trend cosmopolitan aspirations, feeling artistic, literary and generous to a
large extent, and not a little of that cheerfulness expansive and elastic, this power assimilation,
which distinguishes the French. But no fatal instinct of centralization, idolatry that respect
of authority - that abdicates servility individual initiative to the government - such lightness
in the customs, and indifference to belief tenacious, which have upset the acquisition of
freedom within French society. The Genevan cultivated with care all that has some artistic and delicate:
painting, sculpture, music, engraving, watchmaking, jewelry and even dissection of plant and curious
animals. But it has managed to combine the art with the industry, its provisions poetic and
very French, with the seriousness and depth of research and feeling severe personality of the individual
right or characteristic of the Germanic races [5].

[5] is as inseparable from those races the spirit of personal independence,
which I always Was that a German (or its equivalent) who professes
no religion the doctrine of free examination is incomplete and contradictory
man.

Where does this happy amalgam?

Clearly the action of Reformed Protestantism (Whose abuses and intolerance of other times I am
very far from approving) which, by creating the concept and habit of free inquiry, in reasoned
and profound belief (without materialism pagan) and personal autonomy, has been heavily modified
Latin and French instincts of race, supported by the traditions and language.

In Geneva harmonize all social events, making a game seductive poetics perspectives of land and the
lake, the vagaries of the old feudal structures; sumptuous elegance of modern architecture, the
beautiful museums and libraries abundantly provided, the houses of correction and punishment; the
factories and fumes whose smokestacks nice smoky contrast to the facades, temples and gardens
of the innumerable magnificent villas situated between parks near the lake, the commercial
movement the streets and docks, the patients work ú 9.000 8 artists, working in 150.000 manufacturing
of gold watches per year, many excellent engravings (in stone, wood and metal), in the elegant
and delicate jewelry, sculptures and paintings, and in the preparation of many scientific instruments,
music, industrial. This whole set of events like activity in the city of structure semi-feudal
and semi-modern, whose inhabitants the echo of the whistle of the locomotive in the lake steamers and
two railroads, work with efforts to demolish all the fortifications and replace them with monuments,
gardens, factories, forests, springs and neighborhoods elegant and neat. This attracts the attention
of traveler, seduces your eyes and makes you respect a civilization that developed under the
influence of freedom, shows that the greatness of a people is no mass its native population and
the extension of its territory, but in the fecund energy and harmony their progress.

Geneva is divided by the Rhone into two unequal parts. At the apex of the lake, to the both sides
of the isle shaded by beautiful trees that stands the statue of Rousseau,
Rhone escapes into two branches under a large wooden bridge, producing
a small island covered with houses and mills, baths, swimming, etc.,
resting on pilings.

At the margin right lies the suburb of San Gervasio, full of factories, warehouses and Watches
dominated by the railway station to turn to France, Lausanne and Neuchâtel, and boasting on the
piers and docks on the banks of the lake and the river, rows of splendid houses and hotels that
seem to sumptuous palaces, and further a graceful cluster of opulent ú villas, parks, orchards
and gardens. In one of the old streets of this neighborhood that is the bleak two-story shack where
he was born Jean-Jacques.

The city itself stretches along the left bank of the lake and river presenting much of a huge
front line of beautiful modern buildings. After to cover the banks, climbs to the top of a
hill almost abruptly, forming a maze of streets, hills and stands
rigid, old, quirky building, in which center stands the cathedral,
government palace, the house of detention and other buildings public,
and turns on a long promenade on the ramparts of the ancient fortifications.

Finally descends towards the south-east, and expands on a slightly hilly plain, between the Rhone,
Arve valley and the hills of east flowing from the buttresses Savoyards. This is where, to round
the door-New, there are the public gardens theater, music conservatory, the Rath Museum, the
electoral palace buildings more recent, and where will the new Geneva emerging, free of the
obstacle of the fortifications, be extended indefinitely to link to Carouge, a town of 4,500 inhabitants
located on the left bank of the Arve.

Nothing more delicious than a drive on the left bank of the lake, towards Collonge, the fifth
through beautiful parks, orchards, gardens and vineyards and overlooking the view the magnificent
panorama of the lake and the Jura mountains, or rather, rocked gently on a Gondola fro the blue
waves of the lake, ride the surface at nine o'clock in the night when the stars shine in the bottom of
a magnificent sky, the breezes are awakened night full of perfumes, and looks far into the bank
the vast semicircle of light produced by rows of lanterns in all
the springs, to whose line is superimposed thousand whimsical lights
of the old city rising in irregular amphitheater on the hill.
