 

There were not few the din and confusion on Sunday afternoon. Over thirty girls agolpábanse with their
pitchers, all of them eager to be the first to fill, but hurry to leave. Empujábanse in the
narrow stairway, with skirts tucked between legs to tilt and sink her pitcher into the small pond.
He trembled with bubbles constantly emerging aquatic background beach, where bunches of plants
growing gelatinous green wavy hair, moving in its liquid crystal prison pulses of current. The insects
called "weavers" restless legs streaked with the clear surface.

Those who had already filled their pitchers would eat at the edges of the raft, with legs hanging
over the water, shrugging then with outraged cries each time a boy to drink and looked down
to the top.

It was a rowdy meeting of sparrows. All spoke at once, some are insulted, others were peeling away
to the public by all the scandals of the garden. Youth Free paternal severity, showed the hypocritical
gesture made to the house and was shown with all the aggressiveness of a rough lack of expansion.
Those dark angels, how joys and letrillas sang softly in the church to celebrate the holidays Alboraya
of single women, single and nuanced enardecíanse to his conversation with the votes of road, talking
internal things with the aplomb of a midwife.

Rosetta fell there with her pitcher, without having found her boyfriend on the road, notwithstanding
that walked slowly, often turning his head, expecting every moment
to come out a path.

The noisy gathering of the source then was silent at the sight.

Caused astonishment at first Rosetta presence: something like the entry of a Moor in the church
in the middle Alboraya mass. "What was there that" hungry »?...

Rosetta
waved to two or three that were in his factory, and only if you answered
by pressing the lips and a jingle of contempt.

Others, responses of surprise, kept talking, as if nothing had happened, not wanting grant to
the intruder or the honor of silence.

Rosetta lowered to the fountain, and then fill the jar, pulled out,
to sit up, his head over the wall, glancing anxiously throughout the
meadow.

- Look, look, not vindrá [13].

[13] - Look, look, it will not come.

Pimento was a niece, the daughter of a sister Pepeta, that said this;
Morenilla nervously nose rolled up or insolent, proud to be one at
home and that his father was not no tenant, because the four fields
that were worked very own.

Yes, I could look all he wanted, he would not come.

Do not know the other whom he expected? Well to her boyfriend, the nephew of old Tomba. What an
arrangement!

And the thirty cruel mouths began to laugh as if bitten, not because
they found large joke to the thing, but by overwhelming the daughter
of the hated Batiste.

- The "Shepherd said some --- »!...--.

The "Divina Pastora »!...

Rosetta shrugged with a look of indifference. I expected this nickname. In addition, jokes factory
had dulled their susceptibility.

Burdensome pitcher and up the steps, but the little voice stopped
him rearwardly mimosa Pimento's niece.

How this bug bite! ...

Never be the woman's grandson Tomba. It was an unhappy, a "starving", but very honest and incapable
of affinity with a family of thieves.

Rosetta almost dropped her jar. She blushed, as if these words, tearing the heart, had pushed
up all the blood to his face, and then he lay white, deathly pale.

- Chemi is lladre? "Qui? [14] - he asked with a trembling voice that made me laugh to all of the
source.

[14] - Who is a thief? Who?

Who? His father. Pimento, his uncle, he knew well and Cup home they
talked of nothing else.

Did they think the past was to be hidden? Had fled their village because they knew there too,
for it had come to the garden to take what was not theirs. He even had news that Mr. Batiste
had been in prison for bad things ...

And so it went viper, releasing all heard at home and in the valley: the lies fabricated for the lost
home the Cup, all a web of lies invented by Pimento, who felt increasingly less willing to attack
face to face to Batiste, and intended to harass, tired and hurt by the insult.

The firmness of the father suddenly appeared in Rosetta, trembling, stammering with rage and
his eyes streaked with blood. He dropped the jar, which shattered, girls wetting them more immediate
they protested in unison calling beast.

But she was good to notice such things!

- Mon !...-- shouted stop moving toward the insolent -.

"Mon stop lladre? ... Tornau to repeat and et trenque'ls hills [15].

[15] - My father a thief? ... I repeat and I'll break their noses.

But he could not repeat the Morenilla, because before he arrived to open his mouth, he received
a punched in it, while Rosetta sank the other hand on his bow. Instinctively moved by the pain,
he also grabbed the blond hair of the spinner, and for some minutes saw them at two curved, screaming
in pain and rage, with fronts near the ground, dragging each other
with cruel jerks that each gave to the hair other.

Falling forks to rid the braids. His hair seemed opulent banners warriors, not floating and victorious,
but twisted and tortured by the hands the enemy.

But Rosetta, stronger or more mad, managed to free herself, and was about to drag his opponent, perhaps
to Spanking interior, as with his free hand struggled to shed a shoe, when something unprecedented
happened, moody, brutal.

Without approval, as if the hatred of their families, phrases and curses heard in arise barracks
hit them all at once fell on the daughter of Batiste.

- Lladrona! Lladrona! ...

Rosetta disappeared under threatening arms. His face covered him with
scratches.

Burdened many hits, and could fall, as the same enemy Room shortage
of the right retained.

But pushed to one side to another, ended up rolling down the slippery steps, and forehead hit
a stone edge.

Blood! ... It was like a stone at a tree full of birds. All came running different directions, with
the pitchers on his head, and soon not seen in the vicinity source of the Queen rather than
the poor Rosetta, her hair loose, torn skirts, face is dirty with
dust and blood, walking toward his house crying.

I shouted at her mother's anguish and protest then go to find out
what happened!

These people were worse than Jews. Lord! Lord! Could such a crime occur on land Christians?
...

No longer enough to those of the garden that afflict men his poor Batiste, slandering court to
impose fines that are unjust. Her daughters were now pursuing Rosette to the poor, as if the fault
had unhappy.

And all for what ... Because they wanted to working to live, no offense to anyone, as God intended.

Batiste,
seeing his daughter bloodied and crying, pale, taking some steps towards road staring at the
cabin of Pimento, whose roof hovering over the Canar.

But finally he stopped and gently scold to Rosetta. What happened to not walk the teach for
pleasure in the orchard. They should avoid any friction with others: to live together and united
in his hut, never separate from lands that were his life.

Inside your home and would be kept enemies to come to us.

VI

Nest was a rumor, a whisper of the hive, what they heard huertanos morning and late at Passing
the string mill, on the road that goes to sea.

A thick curtain of poplars shut the square formed by the road to widen to stacking of old roofs,
cracked walls and black small windows of the mill, factory old and
dilapidated, mounted on the canal and supported by two large piers,
among the stream which fell into foaming waterfall.

The slow and monotonous noise came through the trees was the school
of Don Joaquin established in a shack hidden by the row of poplars.

I never saw worse knowledge is hosted, and why, usually, does not dwell palaces.

It was an old shack, no other light than that of the door and blowing
through the cracks the roof, the walls of dubious whiteness, as the
lady teacher, obese woman who lived stuck to his rush-chair, spent
the day listening to and admires her husband a few banks, three alphabet
posters filthy, broken at the ends, glued to the wall with bread chewing,
and in the next room to school furnishings and few old, who appeared
to have run half of Spain.

Throughout the cabin there were only a new object: the cane luenga the teacher was behind the door,
and renewed every two days in the reeds nearby, with a happiness that the genre is so cheap, it was
spent quickly on hard and shorn heads of the little wild.

Books, barely three in the school were: the same primer served to all. What more? ... There reigned
a Moorish method: singing and repetition, to put things in a continuum the hard pounding heads.

Because
of this, from morning till evening, the old barracks let go by his door an annoying chant,
which mocked all the birds of the contour.

- Pa ... dre ... ours, which ... you are ... in heaven ....

- Santa ... Mary ....

- Two by two ... cuuuatro ....

And the sparrows, the suckers and calenders, kids fleeing like the
dickens when The crew saw the trails, posábanse with confidence in
the trees near, and even walked with their legs jumping opposite the
school gate, laughing noisy chirping their fierce enemies to see them
caged, threatened with the cane condemned to look at them sideways,
unable to move, and repeating a song so annoying and ugly.

Occasionally gives the choir fell silent and majestic voice sounded
Joaquin releasing a jet of wisdom.

- How many are the works of mercy?

...

- Two of seven, how many? ...

And rarely was happy with the answers.

- You are a beast. I heard as if they spoke in Greek. And to think I treat them with any finesse,
as in a school in the city, so that you learn good manners and how people can speak ...! Anyway,
do you have someone to take: they are so gross parents as their lords, they bark, they make money
to go to the tavern, and invent a thousand excuses for me on Saturday the two rooms that belong
to me.

And we walked outraged, especially when they complain of forgetfulness on Saturday. Well you could
tell in the aspect of his person, which seemed to be divided into two parts.

Below, broken sandals, always muddy, old corduroy pants, hands squamous rough, keeping in the
cracks of the skin the land of his little garden, a square of vegetables was in front of the
cabin, and often was the only thing that filled his pot. But waist up showed himself the lordship,
"the dignity of the priest of the instruction," as he said, what
distinguished him from everyone in the barracks, stuck to the groove
Gusarapo: brightly colored tie on dirty coveralls, gray and bristly
mustache breaking her plump and ruddy face, and a blue cap with rubber
hood, reminiscent of one of the many jobs that had played in his eventful
life.

This was what consoled him for his misery, especially the tie, had no ornament all around and he looked
that a sign of supreme distinction, something like the Golden Fleece Gold garden.

People respected the barracks Don Joaquin, but with regard to support their misery he wandered remiss
and dragged its feet. What that man had ever seen! ... What had been run by the world! ... Sometimes
railroad worker, helping others to collect taxes on more remote provinces of Spain, even said
he had been in Cuba as a civil guard. Anyway, that was a big bird come to less.

- Don Joaquin - said his big woman, who was the first in a sustainable manner - never has been
like today, we are very good family. Misfortune has brought us here, but we "Shoveled" ounces.

And
the gossips of the garden, without prejudice to forget the odd Saturday
in the two rooms school, respected as superior to Don Joaquin, reserving
a bit of fun for green casaquilla square skirts are endorsing the
holidays, when sang in the choir of the church Alboraya during the
mass.

Driven by poverty, had landed there with his huge flabby could
be half as fallen elsewhere.

He assisted the Secretary of the nearby town in the extra work, prepared with herbs known him only
certain operating miracles brews the barracks. All recognized that "this guy knew a lot", and
without fear or master degree anyone to remember him to remove a
school that would not even bread, was achieved by dint of repetition
and rum that spell and remain motionless all crooks five to ten years
on holidays to the birds stoned, robbed and chased fruit to the dogs
in the ways of the garden.

Where was the teacher?

All the neighbors knew, from afar, from beyond the churros. And in vain asked for more explanations
as to the geography of the whole garden Valencia is not speaking of churros.

They were not loose the work suffered by Joaquin to be understood by his disciples and does not
balk at the Castilian language. Of them had had two months school and opened his eyes and scratched
his neck without understanding what the teacher wanted to say with words ever heard in his cabin.

I
suffered from the poor guy!

He encrypting the triumphs of teaching in his "finesse" in the distinction of manners, as "well
spoken" which was, according to a statement from his wife!

Every word mispronounced his disciples - and no one said it - he had
to hiss raising his hands in indignation to touch the roof of his
house smoking.

He was proud of civility with which he treated his disciples.

- The humble shack - said at thirty little boys that were pressed and jostled in the narrow banks,
hearing between boring and afraid of the cane - the need to look at you as if the temple of
politeness and good breeding. What say the temple!

Is the torch that shines and dissolves the shadows of barbarism in this garden. Without me,
what would you? Beasts, and forgive the word, as well as their masters parents, those who do not
want to offend. But God's help, you have to get out of here as people met, knowing submitted
anywhere, as they have had the good fortune to find a teacher like me. Did not it? ...

And the boys responded with nodding furiously, striking the head with some neighbor, and even his
wife, moved by what the temple and gun ceased to make half and threw
behind the rush-chair, wrapping his wife in a look of admiration.

That challenges the whole mangy rascals, skirts and bare feet into the air, excessive urbanity.

-
Well, Mr. Llopis, get you.

And the "Lord of Llopis", a rogue of seven years, his pants leg sustained
in a low by a strap, the bank laid himself down and tallied before
the master, looking askance at the dreaded cane.

- Just now I see
you picking his nose and making pellets.

Ugly vice, sir Llopis, believe me to his teacher. By this time pass, because you know the table
applied and multiplication, but wisdom is little when not accompanied
by good parenting.

Do not forget this, Mr. Llopis.

And he approved of the pellets all
happy with the caveat out of rum, when another big man who was at
his side on the bench and had to keep ancient grudges, the see him
standing with their backsides off, was applied in a pinch them a traitor.

-
Ay! Alas ... Sinor teacher - shouted the boy - "Morros d'aca" poking
me.

What an explosion of anger of Don Joaquin! What irritated him
most was the love of boys to be called by the nicknames of their parents
and even to manufacture new ones.

- Morros d'Who is here? ... The
Lord of Peris, you mean. What manner of speaking, God mine! It seems
that this is a tavern ... If you had to at least the Morros de mare!
Descrísmese you teaching these idiots. Gross! ...

And waving the
cane began to distribute sound blows: the one by the nip and the other
for "Impropriety of language," as non-stop snorting Joaquin in their
rum. So blindly were the blows that other guys were tightened in banks,
shrugged, hiding each head into the neighbor's shoulder, and a little
boy, the youngest son of Batiste, frightened by the sound of the cane,
it was the body.

This tamed the teacher and made him regain his lost
glory, while the auditorium beaten covered her face.

- Doña Pepa
- said his wife -, take you to the Lord of Borrull, who is unwell,
and clean behind the school.

And the big woman, who had some affection
to Batiste's three children because they paid all Saturday, grabbed
a hand to the "Lord of Borrull" which came out swinging school on
the tender little legs, still crying in fright and teaching more than
the skirt through the rear opening of the pants.

After these incidents
over the lesson again sung, and the trees seemed to shudder of annoyance
to sift among its branches this monotonous drone.

Some evenings are
a melancholy could hear bells, and the whole school was stirring with
excitement