 

The viceroy was pensive a few seconds and then, rising from his seat, put hand on the shoulder
of his secretary:

- My friend, what is done is well done, and the world would run better if, in given cases, were not
shyster shysters and other crows Themis, but elves, administering justice. And so, good night
and God and Mary to take us in His holy guard and deliver us goblins
and remorse.

THE DUST OF THE COUNTESS

CHRONICLE OF THE AGE OF FOURTEEN VICEROY OF PERU

(By Dr. Ignacio La-Puente.)

I

In a June afternoon in 1631 all the bells of the churches of Lima
mourned funeral prayers, and the monks of the four religious orders
at that time were, gathered in full choir chanted psalms and prayers.

The inhabitants of the city three times crowned crossed for sites that, sixty years later, the
Viceroy Conde de la Monclova should build portals Clerks and keypads,
stopping in front of the side door of the palace.

In it everything is back entrances and exits of characters, more or
less characterized.

No one would say it had to anchor in Callao, a galleon with immense new Spain, such was the
agitation palace and popular! or, as in our democratic days, was
doing one of those strokes of theater that can give early end to the
justice of rope and stake.

Events, such as water should be drunk at the source, and hence, with leave of the captain arquebusiers
faction is in the above door, penetrate, reader, if you please me
company, in a palace recamarín.

They were in him the most excellent Don Luis Jerónimo Fernández de
Cabrera Bobadilla and Mendoza, Count of Chinchón, Viceroy of these
kingdoms of Peru SM Philip IV, and his close friend the Marquis de
Corpa.

Both were silent and looking eagerly towards the door exhaust, which
gave way to open up a new character.

This was an old man.

He wore black wool trousers half leg, corduroy shoes with buckles stone, velvet jacket and
waistcoat, hanging from the latter a thick silver chain with beautiful stamps. If we add that spent
suede gloves, the reader will know the perfect type of a Aesculapian at that time.

Dr. Juan de Vega, a native of Catalonia, newly arrived in Peru, as
a doctor the Viceroy's house was one of the luminaries of the science
that teaches to kill through a recipe.

- Well, don Juan? - Questioned
the viceroy, more with the look of the word.

- Lord, no hope.

Only a miracle can save Dona Francisca.
And Don John retired air pricked.

This short dialogue just for the
less informed reader knows what it is.

The viceroy had arrived in
Lima in January 1639, and two months later, his beautiful and young
wife Dona Francisca Henriquez de Ribera, which had landed in Paita
not be exposed to the hazards of a possible naval combat with pirates.
Some time later he felt the viceroy attacked the periodic fever to
be identified by the name of tertian, and was known by the Incas as
endemic in the valley of Rimac.

It is known that when, in 1378, Pachacutec
sent an army of thirty thousand Cuzco to conquer Pachacamac, lost
the flower of their troops to the ravages of tertian