 

Carare below appears to oppose, also beautiful river, whose sands studded with gold serve of
milk to a gentle stream, deep and clear. And what memories of seeing the mouth of that river! It
was there that Gonzalo Jimenez de Quesada, conquistador of the New Kingdom of Granada, entered in
1536, dominating as supreme incredible difficulties and dangers, history, to be fair, you should
consider this issue as the most heroic, the most extraordinary conquistador anyone has ever driven
and accomplished.

If Yélez territories Relief and sent to the Magdalene its beautiful water quota of rivers and Opon
Carare, both browsers and delicious, the highlands of Tunja and Pamplona contribute their wealth
of Sogamoso or Colorado River, which flows near the new port of Barrancabermeja. Here, Magdalena
highly enriched with the wealth of so beautiful rivers, making grandiose proportions that make
it impressive, while the beautiful islands that arise here and there, one very large (the Morales),
give the landscape, beautifully lit, an incredible resemblance to the lower Danube, judging
from the I've sailed.

Below the State of Antioquia Sogamoso contribute (in addition to the Honey and Nare rivers) with
the romantic and beautiful river of the Scimitar, which recalls the eternal storms prevailing minerals
in the hills of a ridge of the same name that separates the region of Antioquia those of Simití
and Majagual. The rowers have concerns that a thousand bizarre hidden river bed of gold dust
and dark and impenetrable woods, and have many legends, making the sign of the cross on the dangerous
metal seekers who, having gone to within the course of the river, have not gone back to look
more in Mompos. The inhabitants of Saint-Paul village situated at a short distance from the confluence
of the Scimitar, to make responsible Mohan or Huan, terrible god of the caves and the great wells
of rivers, of the misdeeds committed by the jaguars, snakes and solid blacks to the detriment
of the unwary seekers gold. HOWEVER, I must state that the Mohan such a character does not strike
me as absurd as belief, if you notice that the bottom line is the Devil, but a devil poetic, highly
romantic, and therefore superior, under the artistic point of view
and spiritual, the mundane and vulgar devil sends us believe the Holy
Mother Church.

Saint-Paul (and incidentally there to say that almost all people below are sanctified by a name)
is a funny little town, very poor and humble, but a picturesque local color. First is the red
cliff overlooking the Magdalena, dotted with huts fishermen of the strangest forms, then the
village, consisting of two straight roads 40 or 50 very whitewashed thatched cottages, all separated
and the shade of a multitude coconut, mango and orange trees, behind the dark gray strip of dense
jungle, and ultimately term the distant mountains that separate western
Antioquia state of immense valley Magdalena