 Almost all women
of ancient times when they are more fiercely despised retaliate.

    
    Why poisons introduced
    If nature had Downs to kill?

What atrocities and heinous crimes do not make the heroine's devotion
to the Cross, the Catholic playwright irritated by us represents a
contempt not real, but imagined!

    Driven by their passion
    Julia decides to commit and
    commit such crimes
    

Will spook the world Admiration of the times Horror at the same sin And terror of hell.

The revenge, then that takes the Duchess making Ignacio see his disgrace, is a trifle, is a bargain
when compared to other thousand vendettas, born of grievances of the sort.

Until that happens after I finished the novel seem even less thought, and written depriesa more
than the rest. It is a pity, because perhaps the best scenes are
at last of the work.

Eulalia cynicism proudly admits his lack moving to punish Ignacio brutally in a fit of anger,
leads to a scene well designed although rough naturalism which further highlights the issue
of environment, the elegant mise en scène in which it occurs.

Finally, could you give many solutions to this mess it seems to me that you give less natural
and believable. If Ignacio not crazy, do you consider that its so easy woman posing as such
and keep you locked in a madhouse? But suppose the above closure feasible. Ignacio you missed
the last limit of extravagance and does not make us fear is really crazy when making the determination
to stay forever in Fools and spend his life there without trying to prove who is sane? Frankly,
I distrust Ignatius was completely crazy but why we hide it no more
you and declares, justifying the good doctor and not by comparing
poorly with Pilate, and Pilate is simply wash their hands and the
doctor was soiled hands and conscience with a horrible lie?

Many will feel that you think, and even more people believe, if it
published this letter, the festive tone is drafted and is detrimental
to discredit the first work of you who have seen the light in a volume.