 

The life-giving blood of the garden was away, to other fields whose owners had the misfortune to be
hated, and his poor wheat there, wrinkling, languishing, shaking her hair green as if making signs
to the water to be approached and stroked with a cool kiss.

A Batiste thought the sun was hotter than other days.

The sun fell on the horizon and yet, the poor farmer imagined that its rays were vertical and burned
everything.

Their land was cracking, cracks opened in tortuous, forming a thousand mouths waiting in vain
a sip.

Wheat would not hold your thirst until the next irrigation. Dry before you die, the family
would not have bread, and after so much misery, above fine! ... And yet say if the men are lost? ...

She
moved furiously on the edge of your patch. "Ah, Pimento! Great rascal!
... If Civil Guard had! "

As the castaways dying of hunger and thirst, in his delusions only see tables feast and very
clear streams, Batiste looked imagination with wheat fields green stems and upright, and water
to gush coming from the mouths of the slopes, ranging with a tremor
of light, as if laughing softly as he felt the tickle of a parched
land.

At sunset, Batiste experienced some relief, as if the star is extinguished forever and their harvest
was saved.

He walked away from their fields, their barracks, going down the road insensible, with slow,
Cup to the tavern no longer believed in the existence of the Civil
Guard and warmly welcomed the possibility of an encounter with Pimento,
which should not walk away from the tavern.

They came to him by the roadside the quick beads for girls, basket on his arm and skirt hovering,
back from the factories of the city.

The garden under the blue twilight.

In the background, on the dark mountains, coloreábanse clouds with
distant glow of fire, by the sea trembled at infinity the first stars,
barking dogs sadly, with the monotonous chant of frogs and crickets
confused the invisible car screech away by all the great roads plain.

Batiste she saw her daughter, separated from the other girls, walking
with step lazy.

Alone can not.

He thought he saw talking to a man, who followed the same direction
as her, though separate, as the bride and groom are always in the
garden, because the approach is for them sign of sin.

Batiste to distinguish in the way the man was delaying his departure
and was far when Rosetta was near his father.

He remained motionless, with the hope that the stranger go ahead, to know.

- Bona nit, Sinor Batiste!

It was the same voice that had greeted shy at noon: the grandson of
old Tomba.

This lad appeared to have no other occupation than wandering on the roads to greet and splinter
by soft sweet eyes.

Looked at his daughter, who lowered her eyes reddened.

- A house to house!

I t'arreglaré!.

And with the terrible majesty of the Latin father, absolute master
of his children more likely to instill fear to inspire affection,
began to walk followed by the trembling Rosetta, which, when approaching
to his cabin, believed to march to a safe hiding.

He was wrong. The poor father had no more children at that time in the world that their harvest
diseased wheat, wrinkled, thirsty, calling him screaming for a drink to stay alive.

And in this thought while his wife arranged dinner. Rosetta went from side to side pretending
occupations to avoid attention, expecting at any moment the outbreak of cholera paternal. And
Batiste was thinking in his field, sitting at the bedside dwarf,
surrounded by his family often, than to light the lamp looked greedily
a steaming pot cod with potatoes.

The woman sighed still thinking about the fine, and certainly provided comparisons fabulous amount
they were going to tear and the relief with which he moved his entire family jaws.

Batiste just ate, occupied in contemplating the voracity of their own. Batistet, the eldest son
to be seized with feigned distraction of small crumbs.

A Rosetta, fear gave him a ferocious appetite.

Never Batiste then realized the burden on their backs.

Those mouths that opened to swallow up the meager savings of the
family would be without food if came out to dry.

And all for what?

For the wickedness of men, because there are laws to harass workers honest .... Should not pass
through it. His family before anyone else. Was not ready to defend his men of the greatest
dangers? Did not he have a duty to keep them?

... Man was he able to become a thief to feed them.

Why should I submit, when it was not to steal, but the salvation of his own, than it was all
his own?

The image of the ditch at a short distance caudal dragging its whispering to others was for him a
martyr. Enfurecíale life pass her door without being able to take advantage, because they wanted
the laws.

Suddenly he rose, like a man who adopts a resolution, and to do it tramples all:

- A water! To water!

The woman was frightened, realizing all the danger instantly so desperate resolution. "By God,
Batiste!

... Would impose a higher fine, perhaps the court, offended by default, to take from the water
forever. Had to think about .... It was better to wait. "

But Batiste had strong anger and phlegmatic phlegmatic men that when they lose calm take long
to recover.

- A water! To water!

And Batistet, gleefully repeating the words of his father, took the
hoe and left the barracks followed by his sister and the kids.

Everyone wanted to take part in this study, which looked like a party.

The family felt the joy of a people to rebellion gains his freedom.

All went into the ditch, murmuring in the shade.

The vast plain lost in blue gloom cañares waving, as rumors and dark masses, and the stars
twinkled in black space.

Batiste went into the ditch to the knees, placing the barrier that had to stop water, while his
son, his wife and even his daughter attacked with spades the bank, opening gaps where irrigation
came in spurts.

The whole family felt a sense of freshness and wellbeing.

The earth sang with a sweet joy glu-glu which reached the heart to all of them. "Baby, baby,
poor thing!" And his feet sinking in the mud, Bent going side to side the field to see if the water
was everywhere.

Batiste roared with cruel satisfaction that produces the joy of the forbidden. What weight is removed
off me ... Could the court now come and do what they wanted. Drank his field; this was important.

And
as his fine ear of a man accustomed to solitude thought he heard a disturbing rumor in neighboring
cañares, ran to the cabin, to return immediately clutching his shotgun new.

With the gun on the arm and finger on the trigger, was more than an hour beside the barrier
of the canal.

The water did not go forward, poured in the fields of Batiste, who drank and drank the thirst
of dropsy.

Perhaps complained below, perhaps Pimento, warned as "atandador" haunted
by Nearby, outraged by the insolent attack upon the law.

But there was Batiste as a sentinel of his crop, desperate hero of
the struggle for life, keeping his men, who were moving about extending
the irrigation field, ready to drop a shotgun at first tried to take
the course by restoring barrier water law.

His attitude was so fierce standing upright in the middle of the canal, could be glimpsed in this
black ghost to receive such resolution shots that show, nobody left the cañares immediate and
drank their fields for an hour without any protest.

And what's more strange: the following Thursday, the "atandador" did
not appear before the Tribunal de las Aguas.

The garden had learned that in the former barracks of Barrett the only valuable was a double-barreled
shotgun, purchased recently by the intruder with passion African
of Valencia, who are deprived of bread glad to have behind the door
of your house a new weapon that will excite and inspire envy respect.

V

Every day at dawn, jumped out of bed Rosetta, daughter of Batiste, and eye sleep-swollen, extending
the arms with gentle stretches that shook all slender blond body, he opened the door of the hut.

Screamed
the pulley of the well, barking jumping for joy with her skirts the
ugly tyke who spent the night outside the barracks, and Rosetta, by
the light of the latest stars, cast face and hands for a bucket of
cold water taken out of that hole round and dark, crowned on top by
thick tufts of ivy.

Then, to light the candle, paced the cabin preparing for the journey to Valencia.

Her mother still did not see it from the bed to make all sorts of directions. Could be the leftovers
from dinner with this and three sardines would find in the Vasari had enough. Beware of breaking
the pot, like the other day. Ah! And do not forget to buy yarn needles
and espadrilles to the child.

Destrozona creature! ... In the drawer of the table find the money.

And while the mother went for a walk on the bed, gently caressed by the warmth of the students, proposing
to sleep half an hour along with big Batiste, who was snoring loudly, Rosetta followed their progress.
Placed the food in a basket miserable, spent a comb through the a blond hair, as if the sun had
eaten its color, knotted handkerchief under beard, and before going
back with a caring older sister to see if the boys were well covered,
worried about the little people, sleeping on the floor of his study,
and lying in order from largest to smallest - from the giant to the
little Batistet barely spoke - it seemed a pipe organ.

- Well, goodbye.

To nit! - Shouted the spirited girl from her arm through the handle of the basket, and closed the
door of the barracks, throwing the wrench at the bottom crack.

It was daylight. Under the steely light of dawn could be seen in the paths and roads laborious parade
going in one direction, attracted by the life of the city.

Graceful groups spent spinners with equal step, gracefully moving arm right, cutting the air
like an oar, and screaming all in chorus each time a tall boy hailed from the neighboring
fields with loving words.

Rosetta walked alone into the city.

The poor knew they were her friends, daughters and sisters of the enemies of his family.

Several of them worked in his factory, and the poor blonde, more than
once, making gut heart, he had to defend to scrape clean.

Taking advantage of their carelessness, showed infect things in their food basket, break the pot had
done several times and not passed along to it in the workshop but would stop pushing for the smoking
pot where the bud was drowned, and devote wolverine calling other similar praise to his family.

On the way all of them fled as a troop of furies, and only felt calm to be within the factory, an
old mansion near the market, whose facade, painted al fresco in the
eighteenth century, still preserved among certain groups chipping
and cracking Pink legs and faces in profile bed, remnants of medallions
and mythological paintings.

Rosetta gives the whole family was the closest to his father: "a beast for the job" as Batiste
told himself.

The steam burning of pots where the cocoon subíasele drowning at the head, scald the eyes, but
in spite of this, remained firmly in place, looking at the bottom of the boiling water up the
loose ends of those flabby tissue capsules of a light caramel color, into which death had scorched
the worm laborious baba precious larvae for the crime of making a rich dungeon for processing butterfly.

A
reigned in the big house deafening roar and tiring work for the daughters of orchard, accustomed
to the calm of the vast plain, where the voice is transmitted to huge distances. Roared down
the steam, giving snorting appalling that were transmitted by multiple pipes, rolling pulleys
and winches with a cacophony of a thousand devils, and if not sufficed
much noise, the spinners, as traditional custom, singing along with
a nasal voice Our Father, Hail Mary and the Gloria Patri, with the
same tune of the named Rosario of Aurora, procession parades through
the paths of the garden on Sunday at dawn.

This devotion did not prevent it riesen singing, and so on, between
prayer and prayer, bespoken to be insulted and four scratches to the
output, because these girls brunette, enslaved by the rigid tyranny
that reigns in the family and forced laborers of concern for inheritance
to be always before men with downcast eyes, there were real demons
to be together and without restraint, indulging their tongues drop
everything heard on the roads roads and farmers.

Rosetta was the
most quiet and industrious. To not be distracted at work, he refrained
from singing and never caused strife. Had such an easy to learn all
that he earned a few weeks three reals a day, almost the maximum of
wages, with great envy of the others.

While girls disheveled bands
came from the factory to lunchtime to swallow the contents of their
pots in the immediate content, harassing men with eyes insolent to
say something and scream them after falsely outraged by undertaking
with them a shameless shooting, Rosetta stayed in a corner of the
shop sitting on the floor, with two or three young men who were of
another garden, on the right bank of the river and damned if they
were interested in the history of Barret and hatred of their peers.

In
the first weeks, with some terror Rosetta saw the arrival of dusk,
and with it the departure time ...

Fearing companions who followed
the same road, entertained at the factory some time leaving them out
in front like a whirlwind, which departed outrageous laughter, fluttering
skirts, daring and smell dicharachos health of members harsh and hard.

Lazily
walked through the streets of the city during the cold winter sunsets,
shopping the orders of his mother, stopping captivated by the shop
windows began to glow, and finally, crossing the bridge, got into
the dark alleys of the slums to exit Alboraya the road.

So far so
good. But after dark fell in the garden, with its mysterious noises,
their black bodies and alarming passing greeting her with a "Bona
nit!" gloomy, and began for her fear and chattering teeth.

Not intimidated
by the silence and darkness. As a good daughter of the field, was
used to them. The certainty that they would find one on the road would
have given confidence. In his terror, never thought, as her companions
in death, or witches and ghosts. The were worried that the living.

He
recalled with horror stories of the garden some hearing in the factory:
the fear of girls Pimento and other jaques to those who gathered at
the home of FIFA: thugs who take advantage of darkness, pushing the
girls alone at the bottom of the shower dry or made them falling behind
the barns. And Rosetta, which was no longer innocent after its entry
into the factory, let your imagination run wild to the limits of what
horrible, seeing killed by one of these monsters, his belly sliced
??open and the inside as well as children they were talking about
the legends of the garden, to which a mysterious executioner drew
the shortenings, preparing miracle drug for the rich.

In the twilight
of winter, dark and often wet, shivering saved Rosetta more than halfway.
But the cruelest trance, the most formidable obstacle was almost eventually
close and your cabin, and was the famous Tavern Cu