 Because ailments has been found against
        me, so I have had for his enemy.

11.
        It has put my feet in stocks, has saved all my paths.

     
        

         JOB, XXXIV While at one end of the porch and laid out the scene occurred,
the opposite occurred in another very different.

There were lively and interesting group Ilincheta ladies, along
with the two youngest Gamboa, surrounded by a semicircle of knights
that Galante or admired.

All rise. The women supported their backs on the railing, and Gentlemen pending Ilincheta
Rosa's lips, in short, graceful and graphic expression, described the little incidents of travel,
their mishandling of the way, and his own impressions . Leonardo smiled, clapped Cocco, Mateu
the doctor was like pirouettes and Meneses remained serious jealousy, because it grew with fans of
his beautiful lover.

Adela and Isabella, under the hands, listened and said nothing. Suddenly
someone pulled the skirt on the side Adela was the porch. She turned
her face vividly and saw a black good looking, dressed very different
from that used other slaves on the farm. - What do you want? - Asked
Adela pretty scared. - Your worship excuse me, girl.

It came by your doctor. (I could not see through the darkness and the skirts of the ladies
interposed.) - And who are you? - I'm the nurse, maid of his mercy. - The nurse! Adela repeated surprised.
- Yes, girl, nurse Maria Regla.

And his mercy is not the girl Adelita? - The same dresses and shoes.
- Ah! cried the slave, gently squeezing the girl's feet, because he
could not elsewhere in your body.

Heart told me. Yesterday I saw her pass by the sugar mill from the window of the infirmary. I
was in doubt what my girl if the girl Carmen and her grace.

Much has changed!

How beautiful it has been my daughter, Holy Virgin! - Heart told
me so cute, my daughter, Adela mimicked.

If I am your daughter, if I want so much, why do not you come to
see me?

I warned you to Dolores. Why do not you come out to speak?

I got very angry. - Ay! cried the black.

Do not tell me this girl is killing me ... His beneficence was not alone.
- No. Went with mom, Carmen, the wife and sister Moya Panchita.

What was so special? - Pretty girl of my eyes. - Speak, explain.
- I can not now, my child. - What!

You do not think my mom ask his blessing? - Yes, girl. I, I want the
soul, came ... From the point reached by Ms. de La Habana, I run
and throw myself at your feet ... - Why have not done so?

Who has prevented you? - Miss it. - Mom? No, it can be.

You are wrong,
you dream, Maria de Regla. - I mistake not, nor sleep, Adelita girl.

Hopefully! Miss has banned set foot in this house. - How come I
do not know about that?

Who has been with such a story? - There was no story, Adelita girl.

Dolores told me that Miss had a conversation with the master about
me ... - You see?

Dolores misunderstood.

You mom is not brave.

And if not, now I find out. - Do not do it, girl Adelita, no, for
the love of God, "replied the slave so scared, holding the girl in
a chant of her dress.

By itself, or not, you'd better not see me now Miss. Is there a doctor?
- Well, I want to see you alone.

Arrange mode.

With Dolores'll let you know.
