 Had the book open on his knees, arms earrings, eyes closed.
The recesses of her eyelashes began to ooze some tears, trembling and silent down her cheeks. It
was the sad picture of the vanquished. Shortly after his delicate body shuddered, contrajéronse
the features of his sweet face and peaceful, and shook his breast, sobbing. She put her hands
to her face and wept disconsolately.

- Nothing, nothing! ... We will never know anything!

His mistress Ms Josefa was shocked upon entering the room and find
that way.

The toilet looked up and hurried back soon for the good woman not noticed for his condition,
but it was too late.

- How? ... Are you crying, sir toilet? What happened, child? Virgin Solitude! If you have parents
or siblings, believe that he had killed anyone ... Dashing Nose to that of D. Narciso has
taken another disappointment.

Desprécielo, D. Gil, desprécielo!

- Oh, no! Beware of injustice, Josefa! - Was quick to say the young .-- No has caused me some
annoyance. These tears from nervous I feel unwell days ago.

- If
it is what I said!

You work too ... Those happy books, I would like to see burnt ...

Here
Ms Josefa reel off a long Catilinarian, declaring in principle sectarian
devotee of Caliph Omar.

Fr Gil's interrupted before finishing.

- What came you to tell me, Mrs. Josefa?

- Ah, I forgot! Her godmother sends word that the brother is dying, that will and then you take the
last rites.

- Jesus! ... Oh dear! Oh dear!

... I did not think it was to soon ... Poor D. Álvaro! - Said rising sharply and hurriedly put on
his cloak and hat.

- Bah! A heretic who does not set foot in church! So what if he dies? The first devils take him
the better.

The toilet looked at him timid and anxious.

No one dared to complain of the barbarity feared that gets into your
soul and read his sacrilegious doubts.

After passing the church and pick up the oils, entered the ancient
palace of Montesinos.

The day was overcast. The rain fell sadly with a pertinacity which is known only in that region
of the peninsula. He left to open, as always, Ramiro. The old home
was reinserted.

It seemed that they had cast in a few days over ten years.

So I saw the priest took him with his trembling hands, wrists and agitated voice exclaimed:

-
It dies, D. Gil! It dies!

And a flood of tears ran down his cheeks furrowed with wrinkles.

- Are you serious?

- Is dying! It dies! ... She did it, yes, she! ... But I'll kill ... You know? I kill ... After
I kill me ... I throw into the sea ... I want to avenge my master ... I kill the fox, yo!

The old man, not knowing where he withdrew it, clutching at the same
time with such force wrists the priest that he found it hard to suppress
a cry of pain.

- Quiet, Ramiro, quiet!

What is now we tend the sick and see if we can ease.

- Walk with me, sir toilet. There is hope ... The doctor said ... Poor Master of my soul ...
The kill, kill it!

In the large courtyard, rough pavement, the noise produced dismal rain. They climbed the stairs
worn and dirty principal. Ramiro was crying and muttering threats. Rose after the second. The old
man pushed open the bedroom door of his master, and the priest paused, struck for the spectacle offered
to his view. D. Alvaro Montesinos was lying in bed, rather Extended reclining, with a pile of
pillows behind your back, lay prey to a syncope or dyspnea attack, his eyes closed and mouth
agape, shaking from time to when his miserable chest by a fateful hiccups. There was his side
that Ms Eloisa and a maid. It gave him an air fan, which the patient instinctively tried to
collect. Offered and in his countenance any sign of death.

Ms Eloisa, hearing the sound of the door, turned his face bathed in tears, and made a sign the
priest to be approaching.

- A quarter of an hour that is on the attack - said in a falsetto voice .-- You can stay in
he ... Do you want to put the Holy Anointing?

Neither the patient's ideas, not the chaos that prevailed at that
time in her head stimulated to do so.

However, P. Gil opened as a controller box and set oils to impose
the last sacrament on his unhappy friend.

We had to lift a little laundry to anoint feet. Ms Eloisa and the maid turned, marched to a
corner of the room and wept strongly. The rain beat at the time the leaded glass of the balcony
with sad peal. And dirty curtains, old muslin, hung dim light in
the bedroom.

Fr Gil, with a trembling hand, he was serving his pious office, while the latter stem Montesinos
house lay unconscious, with the terrible pallor of death printed on his features. When they were
about to end, serenose somewhat patient's chest. Shortly after he opened his eyes and cast
a look of surprise and even fear about the room. Turned to close them. After a moment he opened
them, stared at the P. Gil, went after sight to the oil paintings in his hand, his lips purple
with a folded wanted smile.

- At last I have anointed you! - Barely
audible voice said .-- They have done well ... But this machine is
no longer walk, even the oil that you throw ...

Fr Gil glanced Dona
Eloisa expressive.

It cried in anguish:

- Remember God, my brother!

- I remember a lot, dear ... I'm very grateful.

Fr Gil wanted to avoid a nasty scene. Motioned to Ms. Eloisa and they raised withdrawn, as
if to confess.

Women rushed to obey the order, greedy especially the sister, the dying man reconciled to
God.

- Although long since we have not talked about religious matters - "Father Gil sitting at the
foot of the bed and tilting her head toward the firstborn, - I presume that their ideas have
not changed since the last time we discussed. However, at this time that his life is in danger,
do not you feel the need for a faith that alum in darkness it can
be wrapped, in a hope to comfort you in this bitter trance?

- No
... I arrived safely at the end of the horrible comedy ... All men
play a role in it very little windy ... Mine has been very sad ...

-
Truth, D. Alvaro ... Are you one of the most miserable I've ever known.

As believe it or not there is justice in heaven or he will receive the reward of his pains
if he repents in this moment of their sins ... and also their anti-Christian ideas.

These last words were spoken by Father Gil in a lower voice, as if he felt shame.

- Not in heaven or on earth ... that justice is ridiculous that you assume ... But there larger
... and will now comply.

- And so much pain as you have experienced, will they be unsuccessful? Are not you think with
right to compensation?

- No ... I am deeply guilty about being born.

- That's horrible, D. Álvaro, and also absurd.

The pains of this world make us believe that this is a traffic ticket and proof that after
this life, sad and bitter, no other where our immortal soul eternal
finally enjoy pure happiness.

You, who have suffered more than the others, will enjoy greater prize.

-
Oh, no! ... I do not want prizes!

... I do not want life to come! ... I stand ... Stand forever! ... How sweet ... is this word,
father, ... No never again feel the lash of nature or the stabbing of men! ... Do not feel
this miserable body both made me suffer!

Not feeling the teeth of that infamous royéndome the heart slowly!

... Listen, father ... If you've got me even a little sorry ... do
not try to take off This last illusion ... If you know there is a
heaven, Calella ... Do not disturb you, the more have liked in the
world, this blessed peace that I will go ...

Fr Gil, shaken by a
tremor of sadness and compassion, began to mourn.

- Thanks ... thanks
for the tears - said the sick smile .-- At the same time dropped hand,
transparent like porcelain on the priest and squeezed gently.

There was a long, sad silence. Fr Gil, looking ecstatic, stuck on the balcony, meditating. The dying
man, with eyes closed, seemed prepared to sweet sleep he craved. The room is dark at times strong
and at other grew clearer, revealing the thickness the clouds that intercepted the sunlight.

-
But you feel no horror at all, to annihilate all? - Said at last
Fr Gil with some violence as an argument against its own thinking.

The mayorazgo opened his eyes in surprise.

- How? ... If I have no fear of anything? ... Oh, no! A fear is what I have to life ... All are
married with her at birth, and everyone goes p. ..

Some say it like me ... Others silent out of shame, as do most of their husbands.

- What if God condemn him after this life to eternal torment for having blasphemed both?

The dying man smiled work.

- That you have invented the clergy ... to disturb the peace of this
hour ... this time happy ... But I've bought too dear to part with
it ...

There was another long silence.

The sick man closed his eyes. Apart from some strange agitation fingers,
his calm attitude confirmed the meaning of his words.

Seemed to be enjoying voluptuously of insensitivity that gradually
penetrated his being, of preludes of nowhere.

- And yet - he concluded
by saying Fr Gil, a sigh and staring always on the balcony - would
not it be infinitely sweeter this time if the entry of a new life,
if our souls come down a legion of angels to take her to enjoy God
ever, as we Christians believe?

The mayorazgo lifted her eyes a little and made signs of denial to the head. Closed again. But
after making some effort to join instances, firm voice said:

- For life in another world I would be bearable ... would be forced to transform my completely ...
My character in itself be enough to get bored ... Leave me to rest in peace ... Let you, Father,
to destroy the fundamental mistake of my life ... Neither do I win nothing to perpetuate ...
or not the universe ... There are other makers millions to sustain the burden of life.

- But it is horrible to enter a night without limits, forever!

- Not so ... Life is a nightmare ... Death is a peaceful sleep ...

He closed his eyes again.

Fr Gil squeezed her hand affectionately, exclaiming:

- Who knows?

The dying man's hand trembled slightly. The toilet did not re-deploy the lips. He bowed his head
on his chest and also closed his eyes, pressing them with the tips of fingers, as if trying to contain
the torrent of thoughts that escaped from his brain. The wind and rain had ceased. There was
no sound in the room but the distant sound of waves crashing against the rocks.

The meditation of the priest was long and painful.

The blade sharp and penetrating cold skepticism in her womb: a hand tossed mercilessly cruel
to tear better. What that man, maddened by pain, he said it might not be true. But it was what
it claimed Christianity?

This, in the final result was also an attempt to explain the existence and the universe, more
beautiful, more consoling than the others ... but in the end an attempt. No security could hold her,
because they do not have it in our power to know things.

When after a long time raised his head, the shock he received made him leap in the chair. D.
Alvaro was dying. His mouth was open and picked up the silent air, no longer sufficient to move
their waste lungs.

- D. Alvaro!

D. Álvaro! - He shouted, shaking.

No answer. Fr Gil took the fan was on the bedside table and hurried get air. At the same time screamed:

-
Godmother! Godmother! Come!

Ms Eloisa and the maid rushed into the room. Tried in vain to revive the dying giving incorporate
air after opening the balcony, rubbing her feet with a brush doing everything that I suggested
at the time his imagination. It was the last attack of breathlessness. Occasionally opened his
mouth. He moved his fingers shaking slightly. But its appearance is was quickly immobilized.
The man transmigrate to the statue, the soul is turned into stone.

He breathed three or four times the air and froze, motionless, eyes
and mouth parted.

Ms Eloisa embraced him sobbing and kissing his face covered corpse. The maid broke screaming
as if she was hitting. Gil's father dropped to his knees and began to read quietly by his breviary.

After
a while Ms Eloisa and the maid also knelt at the foot of the bed and prayed. But it, seeing a
tear to hover between the lashes of his brother, he rose quickly and caught it with his handkerchief.
Tear was shed that just died, tear Protest against power ominous creature that has taken them
from nothing without asking.

- Look, father, how calm, how still breathes his sweet face! - Cried good lady, watching her brother
with eyes of pain and tenderness .-- It is well known that has finally been reconciled with God!

The
priest dropped the book on the bed and covered her face with her
hands.

XII

Obdulia told his confessor that he was determined to leave the world and devote himself entirely
God in a convent.

He could not give more pleasant news. Long ago that the preferences submission and to the exaggerated
idolatry that she was pleased devout restless Fr Gil. The latest extravagance he had committed,
and which he heard the secretary Bishop, put in a state of confusion and anger that many days would
not talk with it, let alone agreed to confess. The event had transpired and much commented and
laughed not a little too. Of course he was mostly lost her, but reflecting also undermined the
dignity of the priest. The girl was embarrassed. Not presented in public or at home with their
friends, and even tried to go to church at times when no there were people. But I was even more
distressed, with the attitude of his confessor, who embarrassed. Perhaps because of this, and
to win back his will, he went to an evening news to the confessional the determination was
made.

Do not hesitate to give their consent. So exalted devotion, a desire to live as penance and sacrifice
more of their degree would find the walls of a convent in the middle of impurities of worldly
life. In fact, had always a little surprised that his penitent had no recollection of the
monastic life, as according to their inclinations. Then the age reached, transposed and early youth,
did not fear that their resolution was the daughter of a fleeting desire, of a fleeting romantic
exaltation, as usually happens at girls of fifteen to twenty years. Not only, therefore, expressed
its agreement, but encouraged to good words to persist in it and hold it in the shortest time
possible. Was in principle agreed between them that would seek the most suitable. Fr Gil, although
it is not clearly confess, I was thrilled to get rid of that restless Blessed and annoying, which
bothered him at all times, and that could compromise you least expect it seriously.

This was the question of the convent. Fr Gil wanted it to be that of Augustine of Lancia, but
the young preferred a narrower rule. In a small village called Astudillo was Castilla Discalced
Carmelite convent where she was a cousin of his superior. It was a retreat fresh, remote, there
were only ten or twelve nuns: a little corner of heaven, as I said a chaplain who visited him.
In that insisted on going, and her confessor had not finally forced to obey.

Remained the most serious issue, the permission of his father. Obdulia introduced since then as very
difficult. Osuna had no daughter to her. Was likely to be reluctant to lose to forever. Showed himself
reluctant, afraid to speak: he left for days elapse without trying. Fr Gil animated it failed to
represent you that nothing was going to ask him. Resolution withdraw from the world was good and
merciful to the Church. For those who do not believe in it, indifferent, there was nothing
immoral, dependent on taste or a whole person's vocation.

If a parent consents to a child marries a prosperous career or choose your hobbies, why not
to allow another look for your happiness in the silence of a cell? Above all, nothing was offensive
to the authority of the request humbly. If they refused, they would argue reasons, perhaps became convinced.

Finally,
after many twists and turns, shocks and tentative and hesitation, which surrounding the elevating
device and maid of great mystery, one day decided to undertake this Company creepy. Good heavens,
what state of confusion and terror that came later the confessional! His father had been crazy,
mad, the mere announcement of what he wanted do. He would not listen to reason, the rebuked,
the reviled and cast out of his room to shove. Never consent to give permission. First I want her
dead, and even kill for her own hand.

Fr Gil found that exaggerated and even irrational opposition, and stated purposes to address
itself to Osuna and make him understand that he had no right to violate such so the inclination of
his daughter, especially considering that it was a girl's private reflection. Obdulia rushed to dissuade
him from this endeavor. His father had said in an outburst of anger I would consider as an
enemy to anyone who would speak of the matter, he does not listen and you throw in your home.

It
was necessary to resign at the moment, waiting for more propitious time. However, the pious Young
manifested every day more and more vehement desire to leave the world forever. This reconciliation
with Father Gil, who had begun to dismiss.

Several times since the first attempt, had approached his father,
but always in vain and misfortune. Osuna increasingly opposed high
violence. Since I knew the purpose of his daughter showed with it
off, treated with extraordinary hardness, on all occasions, but mostly
at lunchtime, making mockery of his devotion and delight in tormenting
her with bloody jokes that made him mourn. And not just with words
but with deeds tortured her mercilessly. Claimed to have black arms
tweaks that inflicted as the issue was touched the convent. One day
she showed her confessor a broken ear, a ferocious pull hunchback,
another arrived with a swollen cheek and blackened for having thrown
a brush to the face. Fr Gil was shocked and confused. I did not know
what to do or advise.

Abuse and violence of the scenes with his father
all the time had arrived so much so that one day he told his confessor
be determined not to suffer them any longer. Intended to enter the
convent despite all the obstacles that lie ahead. If Fr Gil helped
her business, would escape the parental home and enter immediately
in God. Was that scared and confused by so ravished determination.
He was aware that she had good reason to disobey the authority of
his father, and if you want to outrun. But the case was very serious.
Since then tried to dissuade her quiet advising and resignation. Perhaps
with time Osuna convince him God would touch the heart and could done
with their consent so craved.

Obdulia would not listen. Had already
suffered too much. God could not want to obey a father and cruel tyrant
that he disobeyed God's laws standing in the way to salvation of a
daughter. With many tears and extreme gestures begged him to succor
in this predicament, that would lead to the convent of Astudillo.
The priest flatly denied it. Again to advise calm and always seek
the gentle means of obedience and humility win the consent of his
father. But Obdulia, driven to desperation by the increasing rigor
of this, said the end of a bluntly that if, within eight days will
not be decided to accompany her to the convent, would escape the house
and go alone.

Great confusion hurled these words in the spirit of
the young toilet