 

After this, the Missionaries have worked our breed and maintain these tender plants can not explain
better than talking honestly, without adding anything of mine, a particular fact and part of letter
true, as I will, wherever they find juncture, originals faithfully carried this story will
be more reliable and taste more satisfied readers.

He says, then, Brother Juan de Avila, P. partner was Visitor of this province Antonio Garriga
and P. Provincial Luis de la Roca, where as I shall, visited those Doctrines subject of much trial
and ability in a letter from there wrote:

"As for founding the Missions of Paraguay suffered incredible work those first apostolic men,
taking the Indians of the jungles and engaging in their Christian life and politics to put them in the
state that remain today, divided into thirty Reductions well have been less work and sweat
of those who have founded the first Christianity of the Chiquitos. It is not easy to say what they
have been exposed to suffer hidden enemies and friends, the high cost of everything needed for
human life the deep swamps, inaccessible mountains, impenetrable forests, wild animals, intemperate
climates, thirst, hunger, extreme nudity, total abandonment of all things and honor all war
hell. Could descend to particular cases I have seen and heard if they were not well known and
I are continuing matter of shame and confusion. Do not bring upon itself, but a cloth vestidillo
trivial pieces, and often dressed in animal skins, do not bring other shoes a piece of rawhide
attached to another string of leather for the soles of the feet, and head for shelter from
the sun ardientísimo there does, one as a hat, but also leather bed without any relief, the regular
lunch box, a handful of corn, and this with such low it was barely enough to keep the forces, great
time to live without the comfort even of seeing one of his companions, and being afflicted with
long and painful diseases, no nowhere to turn our eyes. "

So the brother said, and I test everything he says, want to point out some cases where particular.

He
told me not long ago, a father who was Superior of those reductions,
which for many months did not have something else to sustain, but
grass roots, and they also lacking, harassed of hunger, was compelled
to go in search of wild fruits.

When Fr Gregory Campbell was on behalf of P. Simon de Leon, Provincial
of the province, to visit those missions, he took the winter (there
is not measured by the cold, not does, but by the breaking of the
rains) took him under a bower, where seven missionaries spent a long
time without other sustenance than a wild fruit called Motaquí, with
some kinds of milk, and the day of Easter, great gift, the neophytes
were given an ear or spike corn.

But it had another on the same day as Fr Zea, which present great gift for While some small rolls,
could not eat anything from them for being bitter as gall.

Has not seemed superfluous to have these trifles, for apostolic men who in does not look anything
other than conversion of infidels, notice also how much they cost and consider if you need a very
generous charity is employed in seeking the glory of God and look for the eternal salvation
of souls.

And certainly not cower to hazards, not to turn their backs to many jobs, not to withdraw and not
leave a life in which to each pass is with death, dying of hunger here, lost there in the woods,
now walk between arrows and clubs, now in the midst of angry people, it is difficult under
of being, and all that is necessary under whom ever undertaken in remote countries and among barbarians
the office of the Apostolic preaching.

But what fills me with awe and wonder, is that amidst so many hardships and discomforts, have
not yet died among many workers more than three or four, whereas there who has worked twenty-five
and thirty years, but it is singular providence of the Almighty,
who whom no case has made his life for his service, are kept healthier
and better than if had lived in the comforts of a college, as I saw,
with great astonishment, in P. Juan Zea Baptist, that age of sixty-five
years seemed younger in just over thirty breath and courage.

Truth is that today have largely eased many labors, introduced in those people with the Holy Faith
civil and political life, pass it a little better Missionary and the piety of men provides
them with some things to happen to the needs domestic.

And now I know how right to claim the Superiors of the province to
our Fathers general, saying there is this desire for anyone, but only
men of virtue very large and well established.

And indeed, one among other deceptions in which he lived when in Europe firings was eager to
come to India, was to persuade me that for a Missionary Apostolic of these parts, enough to have
a great zeal for souls, but who shall read this regard, find that there are more occasions to
exercise the internal devotion of mind, patience, humility and self-mortification,
and zeal for souls with the other, when I refer here little more than
physical labor, which are the least of which are offered to suffer.

So I want to add a letter that I wrote a friend of mine, whom I cry and reverence at once, which,
with forty-three of the Company that led to the province Quito, the Attorney General Nicholas
de la Puente Father, by God's inscrutable counsels, drowned in the sea horse that ship was
sunk by the year 1717. Dice, thus:

"The fact that we may not see again in Europe, encouraged me to write it to my brother, I hope
you will find in Cadiz, in order to give the final okay, and the
embrace a humble heart, rejoice, along with the most vivid of my affections,
by his now next sort of misleading to leave this world of here and
go in search of a better, or to improve it.

Know, my dearest brother, our fortune, which I am about to say is the largest how many God can give
to his chosen. So what? Perchance is a small thing live unknown, and if I have to tell the
truth, despised by all, or at least some estimate? Oh, lucky us, a great thing if we were involved!
Courage, my brother beloved! Breath, go, go! but where? the Indies,
that is, to Calvary.

To what end? A crown us, yes, but with thorns, to rest, yes, but on a cross. Here just because
from here should start the wishes of a Jesuit Indian. Pray to God and his Blessed Mother to
banish from our hearts all other affections, and not leave him but the desire ardientísimo to
suffer for love of Him who loved us to make life for us. "

CHAPTER VII

Fervor and under the new Christianity, winner of our Lord God with many events miraculous.

They were truly great, as we have seen, the work and labors of the Fathers in tame this uneducated
heathen field, but nevertheless it seemed to them nothing, even if they no comparison was much higher,
seeing how well lit and could seed Gospel preaching, and how soon is seasoned by fruits worthy
of Paradise, but in this I do not want to put any of mine, but only
to speak to them sowers of the seed, to marvel at it and give Rejoice
with incomparable joys of comfort.

"In the knowledge of God (says one) and the observance of divine law
can be in all truth, without a trace of exaggeration, say that this
jungle of beasts and vice is now a portrait of the early Church.

Bendigo infinitely holy wounds of the Redeemer (Says another) that compared the past and present
life of these people, are now so different themselves, when they were idolaters, who seem somehow
born anew in innocence Original. "

Add Father Samartín Sebastian, who was Superior of those reductions:

"Everything can suffer for them, for the affection they have to faith, to return and to what God
or of God. "

But speaking at length Missionary Father St. Joseph Reduction of mercy his people, during Lent
of the year 1705.

"It is not easy to say the fervor that these holy days showed the
new Christians in things of God, heard the paladra of God with great
taste and less fruit and no compunction in I felt lucky to be among
pious Spanish.

The act of contrition that is used the end of the sermons, made him such grief, crying a lot.
Which showed discipline also not really long enough, but not so paid
upon fervor, which cost so much stop them, screaming for mercy to
our Lord and fervorosísimos repeating acts of contrition and purpose
of his no longer offend Divine Majesty, especially in their innate
vice of drunkenness, which, with the help God, have completely forgotten,
but which most clearly knew his piety and true sorrow and repentance
for their sins, was in the act of sacramental confession to that came
crying so bitterly that drew tears to my eyes and filled me with incredible
comfort, giving thanks to the Divine Mercy which is in its people
as barbaric and new faith in such prodigious effects.

"

So Missionary who went on to say that a thousand other things of kindness and devotion of Christians
that serve no little confusion and shame to those born and lived in the bosom of the Holy Church.

Rather
than by what touches to the purity of his conscience are other missionaries relationship differently
saying they do much scruple to hold another's property by small, often they are found just enough
matter for absolution, then they feel the slightest remorse of any guilt, however slight,
and sometimes only in appearance, are flying to weep before God and seek remedy to his ministers,
although they are currently engaged in the work the field, resting or night, and particularly
concerns a woman who looks good even this small part to keep innocent, touted as the heavens
with their prayers for that put an safest where staining was his soul that he finally managed to happy
office their pleas, because the feast of the Ascension, assaulted an accident almost sudden
received all the Sacraments, was for death to enjoy the grace he wanted.

Neither this innocence is only a few to whom God looks with eyes more
pious and whose souls strengthened further copy of heavenly blessings,
but is common in all Reductions, at least on the outside, because
some of the aldermen of the town have by trade syndicate the customs
of others, and when maybe one, for suggestions the flesh yields to
vice sensual, seen first as a penitent, I do confess guilt and apologize
to God in the midst of the church, which led to the plaza, they lash
sharply in front of everyone.

But it makes me wonder penance so that those guilty are being discovered
by foreign coaches, as the sincere confession of catechumens and of
India.

Knew that a Christian had been punished with the rigor that I have said, and it seemed so good this
righteousness, which instantly begged him is use of such punishment, because I said, I'm guilty
of that sin, and India, a hush had fallen fragility not stop until he said with great feeling his guilt
to the Rulers, asking them many prayers and supplications were run in her public punishment, saying
he moved to make this offense against God, and not following the examples of many that had resisted
the lure of meat with the consideration of the presence of God assists everywhere, with the memory
of the eternal punishment of hell and the other media they taught the Padres.

And what's more barbarians made to live in freedom without brakes punishments and penalties, none
of them feel this severity that is used to correct his errors.

More it seems a miracle is that in such a way Chiquitos have laid down their enemies with confining,
blowjobs with milk, fostered the genius, defended with weapons and made the relentless bloodshed,
when previously unable to suffer or even see his enemies in the world, now are with them in the
same reduction, live in the same house and eat at a table, turning hatred and resentment at
as much love for one another, as if had no other father than God and all were a family of
Jesus Christ.

This might seem the most of virtue in a new Christian if they had not passed along left to shatter
them like the Gentiles, not to miss, even as they seemed in a point to the holy law of God.
They heard that God commanded them not return evil for evil, and than to the insults and injuries,
even in life, but no replies with meekness and suffering.

A short time were some newbies (as we shall) to seek to reduce them infidels the knowledge
of God, and suddenly found a Rancheria, the peasants were upon them with clubs and arrows,
but the Christians, but very spirited and well-equipped weapons that could have been easily
defended, however, not make them evil; were allowed to take lives.

Others, having gone to another such company, or even wanted to carry
weapons with them, and entering in a land peaked in it the image of
Our Lady, exhorting the people hiciese reverence, but the response
we had was to see fall upon them a storm of arrows, of there were
many dead.

They knew that the missionaries and wept with seeming comfort a miracle of grace in a nation so
proud and vengeful.

And indeed, affection so tender to the things of God, so great horror of sin and to all what
smells of vice, should be attributed to the holy life and to observe the continuous exercises pity
that everyone, regardless, regardless of sex or condition, practice.

Three times a day, at daybreak, at noon and at night, together children
choirs to sing various prayers and many memory decorate what the Missionary
has explained the Catechism.

All holidays are meeting the people to hear a point of Christian doctrine or sermon after a
solemn sung mass. By standing up and lying are entrusted to God the
Queen of the Angels and the Holy Guardian Angel, with devout prayers
that baptized learning, of some use to enter the Church and when the
priest elevates the Sacred Host or the Chalice.

Before sitting down to dinner cast up the blessing, and besides that do not eat any lunch box off
the table without first blessed with the holy cross. When admitted to the participation of the
divine mysteries, it is difficult to explain with much devotion and tender colloquies come near to
communicate and how much then try to keep your heart pure and clean from all stain of sin.

Could bring many examples in confirmation of this, but not to cause annoyance to readers content myself
with referring one. They wanted some young men receive the Bread of Angels, but Father gave them
to understand that it never granted without first corrected and amended certain freedom that
I had some remnant of heathenism; them, without any proceeding, obeyed then, and although not cost
them little, amended completely from this custom.

He asked then if they had returned to relapse and much admired, replied that how could offend
to his Lord after he had hosted in his heart.

But when these reductions seem a paradise (say a subject that has seen), is night, when everyone
sings the things of our holy faith, put on some music mode very flat, which makes children
on public streets at the foot of the crosses, and men in their homes
and in a separate place for women, then pray the rosary and conclude
This feature devoted to songs in praise of Christ Our Lord and His
Blessed Mother Our Lady the Virgin Mary, whom profess most tender
affection, not calling another Mother's title, all on Saturdays and
the eve of the festivities devoted to his name, to sing the Mass are
musical instruments, which are used among them, and never will to
work in the field or returning from their work without first entering
the church to pray in front of his image.

The best of its poor assets used in service of this lady, and want to be poor before to miss a point
in their worship, and once a father wanted to sell on the wax Opemús calls bees, which is very
white, and the best, answered resolutely: "No God forbid that our benefit is expended on what we
have offered to his Blessed Mother, because if we deprive ourselves of this wax for his sake,
she will get to help our poverty. "

Finally, for ultimate proof of the devotion of these new Christians,
give notice of certain public precessions own, which, if it proves
to some offal should not be ignore, others say that may seem so, but
not in people for whom it was necessary an oracle of the Vatican to
believe they were capable of the law of God: "For the first discoverers
de las Indias recklessly false and judged that they were not sound
gross but, unable of reason, and based on this error the Spanish island
of Santo Domingo and the other, holding them by animals, three four
arrobas loaded go to bed, were taken out and carried many miles and
this view was understood then fed natural damage, so that in New Spain,
to be careless by beasts in human form, treated as if they were, denying
the consequent, be able to Bliss and the Holy Sacraments and reached
as this, which led to D. Br Juan Garces, the first bishop of Haxcala,
Dominico, year 1636 [V] to write a letter full of piety and scholarship,
reporting the truth to the Supreme Pope Paul III, who with Quick and
special Bull, defined and declared to the Indians for men rational
and capable of the Catholic faith, like all other nations of Europe
and all the world see you utpoté Indos ipsos homines, non solum Christianae,
fidei able existere decernimus et declaramus and so on.

[VI.] Being then such Indians who has been rendering irrational, even the less barbarous, and these
little kids being one of the class the most barbarous (P. Acosta in Prooem. ad lib. attempting.
Indor, salute, as he teaches Fr Joseph Acosta, D. Juan Solorzano, Lib. of Politic. Indian. Chapter
9, pg. 41, and illustrious Bishop of Quito D. Alonso de la Peña Montenegro, in Book 2 of Schedule
Foreword, page 141 and many other authors) one less thing shall mount these signals external devotion
and mean. "

The night, therefore, Holy Thursday, after hearing a sermon on the Passion fervorosísimo of
Our Lord Jesus Christ, to wear a habit off the sadness of this holy season; and to imitate the
Redeemer grieving, have some very heavy crosses their backs, others are restricted head with
sharp thorns, who tied behind their hands, you dragged to the ground, who right with arms outstretched
in a cross, the most harshly hit with terrible disciplines closes the procession a troop of children
in pairs bearing the instruments of the Passion the Lord.

Then, at the foot of a crucifix placed before devotee of the Holy Sepulchre, all in their order,
tiernísimos feelings with tears in his eyes, he offered the fruits of their fields, "Filling in
the meantime (say a Missionary) of comfort our hearts to see prostrate
these souls before the Divine Lamb who rescued them with his blood
which shortly before they were like beasts strayed and lost in the
jungles.

"

The other procession made the day of Corpus, to which they invite the nations bordering the
Gentiles up, then, the most richly streets that his poverty is possible, and instead embroidered
tapestries of gold or damask hangings, decorated with the ingenious artifice facades of palm
branches, linked together beautifully, to the headwaters the triumphal
arches rise streets dressed as beautifully landscaped gardens are
in their and forests, the best of dressings and delicate embroideries
and beautiful carved feather it puts everyone in front of his house,
and in order that all creatures, even irrational, homage and tribute
of reverence to the common Lord of all, leave days prior to hunting
birds and beasts, even tigers and lions, and tied tightly put them
on the road which has to pass the Blessed Sacrament, and throw together
the ground corn and other seeds that have to do their fields to be
blessed by God and then multiply to the extent of their need, but
the best of this most devout party is the most tender devotion and
fervor with which accompany this work to the glory of his Creator.

And do not think that our Lord God one is left (so he said) to overcome the mercy of these his
new faithful, but rather it seems, so to speak, who has walked with them to competition, so that, the more
they are used in their service, the more returns and reward them with benefits, because as
we know from experience, is usually extremely loving and beneficent in the first training for those who
choose to foundations of a new church between infidels and uses more length to your advantage of
your blessings, not only on the needs spiritual, but also in the body.

Perdíanse once the fields for lack of water, and just called neophytes, when broke in very abundant
rainfall.

It was great havoc on the townspeople of San Rafael a pestilence; ran then the people to the church
to ask God for mercy, and to the point it stopped spreading, so that no of headgear he died
on, or any ill healthy.

There was also great shortage of food here, because of which women made some good their need
to God, telling one: "Jesus Christ Our Lord and God, give us something to eat, because if we
do not die. "And again:" Lord do you want me to die? Look I'm falling hunger ", and this year
were very abundant crops.

Had to go to Mount Christian town of San Juan Bautista to make provision
of meat, but have not finished the fabric of the church were working
to finish to make with all perfection, trusting God to provide as
in fact happened, Shortly afterwards it emerged from the forest are
many wild boars in troops, and to clearly was known that was a thing
of God, stood by the reduction, so that people could to kill her unless
they were enough to help their needs.

But it would never end if we want to relate one by one the favors that God Our Lord used with them.
Ultimate test is only them who believe most of these newcomers a rosary anyone else, beautiful and
precious it is, and rightly so, because it serves insurance repair and shield the misfortunes and dangers
they encounter in their ways, and most holy names of Jesus and Mary, have fought many times of
obvious risks to become the pieces of the beasts.
