 Orchestras
have been killed in payment for the good they were going to do, and he sent some Inca Tupac captains
to punish people, but, as I knew, gathered many of the barbarians who killed and those who were
defeated, that the Inca was feeling, but, having large business in his hands, and agree in
person back to Cuzco, he was not to own dalles punishment for what they had done.

In Quito how well it was new to what he had been sent and how much care had his delegates to impose
such people into his service, and how well they were treated and them how they were happy
and did what was commanded them, and many landlords I came every day and brought him great ambassadors
present, and his court was full of major and palaces of pots and vessels of gold and silver and other
great riches .-- In the morning he ate, and from noon to be a bit late, heard in public, accompanied
by his guardian, whom he wanted to talk. After spending the time to be drinking at night, that
turned out to dinner with fire wood, because they did not use tallow or wax, but had tired of the
one or the other.

In Quito left by the captain general and chief steward to a orejon elderly, who all have I was
very knowledgeable and hard and gentle presence, whom they called Chalco Mayta, and he gave
license so he could walk on a platform and served with gold and other freedoms he had a lot.
Ordered him on all things that each moon do him messenger to bring him particular notice of all things
to pass over, and the state of the earth, and fertility della, and the growth of the livestock,
over all what we ordinarily notice, which was the poor who had, who were killed in one year
and he was born, and what has been eScript in the back knew that without it he himself kings in
Cuzco, and having so great way from Quito to Cuzco, which is more than going from Seville
to Rome, by far, was so used as is the way to Seville Triana, that
I can not more expensive.

Dias had the grand Inca Tupac had notice of the fertility of Los Llanos and the beautiful valleys
than they had, and how much they felt the lords of them, and determined to send them messengers
with gifts and presents for the principal, asking that they had for a friend and companion, Quél
wanted to be like him in the suit when passing over the valleys, not war if they wanted to give
them peace, and that up to them from their wives and clothes and take him their own, and other
things in this. And all along the coast had flown and how much new you ladies were Tupac Inca
Yupanqui, and how it was not cruel or vicious or to harm but to the brooding and wanted to
stand against him: and they praised the custom and religion of the Cuzco, the apricots had male
saints, believing that the Incas were the children of the sun, or that they had a deity. And
considering these things and others, identified many without seeing their flags, taking with him
friendship, and so sent him to say with own ambassadors, to which sent many presents to the
king himself, and begged wanted come the valleys to be Dell Server and Holger to see their
freshness, and praising the Inca such a will, again speaking to the
governor of Quito what he had done, left that city to rule the Yuncas.

As Tupac Inca king resolved to go in the valleys of Los Llanos, to attract to its service and
obedience the inhabitants of them, down to what Tumbez and was honorably receive me by natural
whom showed much love Tupac Inca, and then put the suit wore T hose for more content, and praises
the war leading to will not take him as Lord and and have promised to the estimate as to his own children.
They hear happy with their good words and manner with which he treated them, gave honest obedience
to conditions, and allowed be including governors and make buildings because, without it that
some Indians say, others had passed by Tupac Inca made seat while in the land, reigned until Huayna
Capac, but if we look at these sayings of the Indians, never conclude
nothing.

Leaving the valley, walked the Inca king by most of the coast, going by the way real big and beautiful
as what of today seems to have been, and was served everywhere and going to present to serve
him, though in some places, they say they gave war but was not party to be without his subjects.
In this valley was a few days drinking and giving them pleasure, rejoiced to see their freshness.
Made by his command large building houses and temples. Chimo in the valley say they had a fierce
war with the Lord of that valley, and taking their battle, was in little being disrupted all the
Inca point, but, whichever their own, won the field and defeated the enemy, whom Tupac Inca,
with his mercy, spared, commanding, to those who were living in planting their land would
understand, and should not take up arms again to himself or others. He was Chimo to represent
him, and most of these valleys were the tributes to Cajamarca, and they are working for metal working,
many of them were taken to Cuzco and to the heads of provinces, tilled where silver and gold
jewelry, vases and vessels, but it was more ordered them. Chimo passed on the Inca, and Parmunquilla
[187] ordered a fortress we see today, although very worn and broken
up.

These Yuncas are given, and the lords, vicious and friends rejoicing, went to shoulders of
his subjects, had many women, were rich in gold and silver and precious clothing and livestock.
In those days, servíanse with pomp in front of them were crooks and decision-makers, in their
houses had gatekeepers, used in many religions. Dell, will be offered to the Inca and others
took up arms against him, but at last he was by the sovereign lord of it all and monarch. No
freedoms and seized their old habits, use of theirs So that degree of force or they were to save. Indians
were skilled as they impose that the king wanted them to know, and learn the common language
had great care. They stood mitimaes, and roads, clinics, each moderately taxed valley that tribute
to that their land could, without going to look to the Agency, hobiese, watched over them to
justice, more fulfilled what they promised, if not, the damage was his and the Inca earned their
entire income. Lordship is not shot no natural lord but sacáronse of men of the valleys many,
getting to the each other, and to bring other parties to the trades
that this has been.

Inca God to walk in the other valleys in the best order he could, without allowing no harm
was done in the towns or in the fields of land do they passed, and the had many provisions in
natural deposits and quarters that the roads were facts. And with this order, the Inca walked
until he reached the valley of Pachacamac, which was the temple as old and devout Yuncas very
desired to see him as he arrived at that valley, say only wish there was the temple of the
sun, more like that was so honored and taken by the natives, did not dare, and that it should
be contented with house and large sun virgins and priests, for that would make sacrifices according
to his religion. Many Indians say that he himself spoke with the devil Inca was the idol of
Pachacamac, and he heard it was the maker of the world and other nonsense that I do not do not agree;
and the Inca begged to let him know what service would be more honest
and happy, and responded he sacrificed a lot of human and sheep blood.

After the aforesaid, have great sacrifices that were made in Pachacama by Tupac Inca Yupanqui, and
large celebrations, which last, he turned back to Cuzco on a path that was done, what you will
get the Xauxa Valley, which runs through the snowy mountains of Pariacaca, which is something
to see and feel his greatness, and how large steps are, and today are and among those snows,
to get through. And visiting the provinces of the highland and providing and rearranging the most
convenient for good governance, who is close to Cuzco, to where he
was received with great feasts and dances, and made great sacrifices
in the temple for their victories.

Chincha province in the past was much in this kingdom of Peru, and most populated People, therefore,
that before this one time with their masters had left and joined himself to the Collao, where,
with great spoil that hobieron, turned back to his province, where they were and were always
estimated their neighbors, and feared. The father of Tupac Inca Inca, is said Soras sent from
a captain with warriors, called Capac Inca, to obtain Chincha attract the lordship of his own:
but, although he was and what he tried, was low partly because got a weapon, and so it wanted
to defend, quel orejon, the best he could, returned, and were not
seeing any captain until Tupac Inca Inca subjugated, to what T hose
same tale, for I do not know about this more than they themselves.

Returning to the purpose, as Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese, as eScript, after to be loose
and have given to their hobbies seemed like days, sent it back to People call, with the intention
of ending the Lady Indians of Los Llanos. His command was met, and appeared in Cuzco speedily
masters of the provinces with people of war who were to bring, and put in order after the city
and what more King had to provide, out of Cuzco and down to the plains by way of Guaytaray.
Knowing its way, many were waiting for him with the intention of taking him as Lord, and many
willing to give him war and try to keep [it] in the freedom they had.

In the valleys of the Nazca people had back and ready against war.

Tupac Inca arrived, hobo embassies and talks between them, and although there were some stubbornness
and guerrillas, were content with what the Inca Dellos wanted by the foundation (and) that hiciesen
fortified houses and hobiese mitimaes, and pay tribute to what they put. And here was the Inca to
the valley of Ica, where he found more resistance in the Nazca, but, wisdom enough [to] do,
without war, enemies friends, and were broken as the last. In Chincha waiting if the Inca were
going to the valley, made more than thirty thousand men on the point of war, and hoped to curry favor
with the neighbors. Tupac Inca, as he knew, he sent messengers, with great presents for the
lords and masters and principals, said the ambassadors that of his party's hiciesen great
offers, and chelate did not want war with them, but peace and brotherhood, and other things to
this pass. The Chincha heard what the Inca he said, and received him his present, and were for
him some principal with what was in the valley and talked to him and sought the friendship
so that peace was settled, and Chincha weapons and were left to Tupac Inca, then moved to Chincha.
This counted mesmos Chincha Indians of Cuzco and the dried, other Indians from other provinces
have heard have it otherwise, because they say large hobo war more
I believe that without it was for Lord of Chincha.

Inca come to this valley, so great and beautiful saw it, was delighted. He praised the customs
of the natives, and with loving words I begged them to take those of Cuzco which would see them
add up, and they obeyed him and contented throughout, and given seat when it had to do, went
to Ica, where he was to what they call the Guarco, because questa knew war and turned around,
and it was true, because the natives of those valleys, taking little by their neighbors because
they had so unnerved and do not see why, given possession of their lands to stranger king,
and gathered a lot of courage, having made houses pucaraes strong in the part belonging to
it, near the sea, where they put their wives and children. And walking [188] the Inca with
their people in order, who is close to where they were their enemies, and sent their embassies to
big games, and sometimes threats and fierce, but did not want to go through the law of their
neighbors, who was foreign to Acknowledge, and with each other, the use of these parts, locked
the war and spent great things from them. And come the summer and hiciesen great heat, the people
of the Inca adolesció that was because he agreed to withdraw, and so, with more sanity as he could,
did, and those of Guarco out of its valley, and took their maintenance
and meals, and turned to sow the fields, and they made weapons and
aparejábanse for, if the Cuzco should come against them, found them
apercebidos.

Tupac Inca Cuzco stirred about, and as men are of so little evidence, they saw than the Guarco
were left with what they tried, he began to have news from some of them, and rebelled and departed
from the service some of the Inca .-- These were natural valleys up the same coast .-- All the
king went to hearing, and what remained of that summer, he understood to make calls and send
people out to apricots were all over the kingdom to visit the provinces, and determined to win
the dominion of Guarco, though about it ingrowth was evident harm. As autumn came and went past
the heat of summer, with The more people who might join, down to the Plains and sent their ambassadors
to the valleys of them, afeándolos his unsteadiness in presuming he is up against, and they
were amonestóles firm in their friendship, where not, certificóles that the war would make cruel.
And how to get at first Guarco Valley, in Halden saw, he commanded his people to found a city
??to which his name Cuzco, as his chief seat, and the streets and hills and squares were the
real name. He said that even cattle would quel Guarco the native subjects of his, had to remain
the new settlement, and that it always People had to be quartered, and then hobo who did what
on what was ordered, moved with his people to where they were the enemy, and besieged it, and
so firm were in purpose, never wanted to come to any party, and had his war, which was so long,
saying that lasted three years, the summers of which the Inca went to Cuzco, leaving people quartered
in the new Cuzco he had done, that was always against the enemy.

And so, one to be gentlemen, and the other for not being slaves, tried to leave with his intention,
but finally, after three years, the Guarco were emaciated, and Inca, who met him, I again sent
ambassadors to them that they were all friends dijiesen and colleagues, quel did not want to marry
their sons but his daughters, and the resulting, sustener confederation all very equal, and other
things such deception, Paresce to Tupac Merescian grand Inca punishment for having given so much
work, and the Guarco, Paresce could no longer sustain many days, and that conditions would be
made by the Inca better to enjoy peace and quiet, gave what the Inca king wanted, who should not,
since leaving the fort, were the key to reverence him, and without thinking, commanded his people
that kill them all, and they put him with great cruelty at the hands, and slew all the major
and most honest men them who were there, and in they were not, also be carried out the sentence,
and killed as many as today, we have the descendants Dell and large piles of bones that there
are witnesses, and we believe that what about this account is what you see eScript.

This done, he ordered the Inca king and a graceful strength that so I told in Part [189]. Settled
the valley and put mitimaes and governor, having heard embassies which came from the Yuncas
and many mountain, commanded want to ruin the new Cuzco had been done, and all the people turned
around for the city of Cuzco, where he was received with great joy, and made great sacrifices to praise
him in the temple and oracles and therefore he was glad the town with parties and drinking and
táquis Solenoid.

As Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese with such great victories as has eScript, was some days
rejoiced at their feasts and drinking with their wives and concubines, who were many, and
their children, including growing up Huayna Capac, who was to be king and came out very courageous
and spirited. After the holidays, the great Tupac Inca thought of giving sight Collao and rule the earth
that could front more, and to do so, he issued apercebiesen people everywhere, and many tents
hiciesen sleeping in desert places. Y began to come with their masters, and to the round alojábanse
Cuzco, without entering the city ??other than the law does not proibia, and to each other and
to dutifully provided everything you need, taking into account this great governors and providers
MESMA city. And as hobiesen together all those who had to go to war, is made sacrifices their gods,
according to his blindness, making wizards, who knew of the oracles the end of the war, and
made a general and very splendid treat, Tupac left Cuzco Inca in the city leaving his lieutenant
and his eldest son Huayna Capac, and spare grand [190] and majesty, so Collasuyo walked, visiting
the seals and real drums, and rejoice by the peoples of the Canas and Canches.

Entering in the Collao, walked up Chucuito, where the lords of the earth together him to make
merry, and had its good order all collection and supply of maintenance without who miss more
than three hundred mill people who were on their real. Some lords Collao offered to go for
their people with the same saddle Inca, and with that said, came In malaria Titicaca, and
Loo to those who understood the works of the buildings that his father commanded to do, how well
they had done. In the temple made great sacrifices, and gave the idol priests and rich gifts,
according to so great a lord as he was. He returned to his people and walked throughout the
province to leave della Collao, sent his messengers to all nations of Charcas, Carangas and more
people who are in those lands. Dellas, flocked around him to serve and others to you make
war, but though it was given, his power was so great that enough to the subjugation, using the
conquered of great mercy, and with which it came, much love. In Paria sent to large buildings,
and do the same elsewhere. And some had Inca Tupac go to great things, many of which deprives
the forgetfulness, the need to have letters, and I summarily put something of how much we know
from what we hear and see, that here we are, what happened.

Going ahead of the Charcas victorious, went through many lands and depopulated provinces and large snow,
until he came to what we call Chile, and lorded over and conquered all the lands, in which they
say they came to the river Maule. As of Chile made some buildings and tributáronle of regions
much gold in ingots. Governors and mitimaes left, and since in order you had won, he returned to
Cuzco.

Towards the Levante sent apricots warned, in the dress of merchants, who would look for hobiese
lands and what the people sent, and ordered these other things, returned to Cuzco, in which
contend that turned to go out after a few days, and with people who agreed lead, went into
the Andes, and spent the grand work of the mountain wilderness, and conquered some villages in
that region, and sent many crops of coca plant, and which led Cuzco,
where he turned around.

And they say past few days, gave him some evil that caused his death, and commending his son
the government of the kingdom and their wives and children, and saying
other things, he died.

And there were great tears and feeling so remarkable from Quito to Chile, strange forests
thing to hear what the Indians on that count.

Where or in what place he is buried not say. That have killed large number of women and servers
and pages to get to him with so much treasure and jewels, which had mounted more than one million,
and would be little, because individual lords were buried some of them over a hundred miles
from Castile. Without so much that people got into his grave and hanged buried many women
and men in different parts of the kingdom, and everywhere were crying for an entire year and
is shorn of most of the women, putting all ropes esparto, and finish the year, came to make
their reputations. And what they say they used to I do not want to because they are nations,
and the Christians Quest in Cuzco year of fifteen hundred and fifty,
remember what they saw was made by the honors and After years of Inca
Paulo, with it having become Christians, and bring forth what would
in time the reign of former kings, rather than lose their sovereignty.

CAP. LXI .-- Of how he reigned at Cuzco Huayna Capac who was the Inca king dozen.

Dead king was the great Inca Tupac Yupanqui, is understood to make their funeral rites and burial
the use of their elders, with great pomp. And have the apricots, which secretly plotted between
freedom to collect some past and hold it the command of the Incas, and in fact leave with what
they intended, if not for the very quick, which gave the governors of the Inca with people
of mitimaes and captains, they could sustain such a troubled time and had no king, they had
charged last nickel. Huayna Capac not neglected or failed to meet that he must show courage to
keep it that his father worked so hard won. Then it came to making the fast, and the city will
ruling was faithful and loyal. Have not stopped some confusion among the Incas mesmos, because
some children of Tupac Inca, have occurred in other Coya women, wanted to pretend to be [191]
the kingship, but the people who Vian was with Huayna Capac, not consent, but interfered with
the punishment that was done. Finish fasting, Huayna Capac went with tassel very gallant and
dressed, and made the cirimonias used by their past, to which the
name of king wore, and so loud voices they said [192]: Inca Huayna
Capac Zapalla tucuillacta Uya, which means, "Huayna Capac only is
king Øyan unto him all peoples.

"

Huayna Capac was, as they say many Indians saw him and knew of no very great body but bent and
well done, good and very serious face, a few words, many facts was righteous and punished without
restraint. I wanted to be as feared, that night I dreamed of Indians. Ate as they use, and
so lived cycle of women, if you can tell, hear to those who spoke well, and believed very light:
long deprived him of flatterers and flattering, that among them there were plenty, and today
there is no longer, and gave ear to lies, was the reason that many died without guilt. For
the young men who slept meat tempted to their wives or concubines,
or with which they were in the temple of the sun, then sent them to
kill to them, and to punish them equally