 

Purely internal phenomena are interlinked in a very different others: those relationships too
much influence will, in others not. Additionally, the first offered or by a simple act of will,
or by themselves, alone, without any need for linkages with other than the preceding. I write in
Madrid and Suddenly it occurs to me the presence of the Thames, with its many sailing boats
vapor. For this I did not need to go through the series of phenomena that it represents me
we call Spain and France. The Thames I can not represent, after a thousand sensations unrelated
to each other and with him, but if you have to produce in me the phenomenon that I call to see,
then I will need to scroll to resign within me the whole series of phenomena involves a journey,
and not as he wants, but really and truly experiencing all the pleasures and discomfort that
accompany it: and forming a real desire to leave and go time to such time, failing to meet without
the feeling that I call to see the diligence and with that other feeling I call to see a clerk in
the office who does not want me back money, and no other feeling I call to see and touch my luggage,
and all sensations resulting from such ungrateful neglect.

When this series of internal phenomena or common language, travel
adventures, I love them represent only internally, so prepare to measure
my taste: I stand, I'm more rapidly, a jump go through a hundred leagues,
I move from one point to another without passing through the intermediate
In short, I find none of the drawbacks that make me so heavy that
we call reality.

I'm in a world where I control, I: and the car is ready, and the foreman on the job, and postilion
in his, and flight and carried on the wind.

The beautiful landscapes, the ungrateful wastelands, huge forests, plains, which confines meets the
sky, all paraded to my eyes with admirable speed, I get tired of going land, and without further
ado I stand on the deck of a ship at sea, and I see the choppy waves,
And I hear her roar, and which hit the side of the boat, and the pilot's
voice that gives orders, see the machinations of the sailors, walk
the cameras, talking to passengers, all without feeling bad odor,
free from the anxieties of dizziness, or witness of others.

[26.] Purely internal sensations, although they have some link with each other, mostly when coming from
the outside, this link is not such that we can not be modified in myriad ways. When we think
of the obelisk in the Place de la Concorde, of course we have the fountains and statues and fountains,
and the Tuileries Palace and the Temple of Madalena, and the Champs
Elysees, and the Palace of the Chamber of Deputies, but it is in our
hands change the scene, and no more than accidentally moved the obelisk
in the middle of the Plaza de Oriente, and we are looking at what
effect there, until satisfied with the operation we put again in his
post or not think about him.

But if it comes to vision, or whether the external phenomenon, we will strive in vain to similar
maneuvers: everything is in place, or at least so it seems, and feelings are chained together
with links of iron. The one coming after the other, and we is impossible to save the intermediate.

It
also appears that the simple observation of what happens inside us, we witness the existence of two
completely different orders of phenomena: the one, all, or nearly all, depends on our willingness,
on the other nothing, in that, among other phenomena have certain
relations, but highly variable and largely subject to our whim, in
this, we dependent on each other, and will not occur under certain
conditions.

No I can see if I open the windows to let in the light: the phenomenon of window and vision
are necessarily linked. But it is remarkable that they are not always: at night the open and I
see; and need another auxiliary phenomenon is artificial light, and I want more I can not
alter the law of dependence.

[27.] What does all this? indicates that phenomena beyond our control and subject in its existence
and its laws to accidents that we can not alter, are effects of beings other than ourselves.
There are ourselves, because we exist often without them are not caused by our will, as they
arise without the assistance it, and sometimes against it, not effect each other in the purely
internal because very often happens that, having followed a thousand times one event to another,
suddenly stops there for over second you play the first. This leads me to test a hypothesis which
is confirmed more and more established doctrine.

CHAPTER V.

A ideal scenario.

[28.] If the system of the idealists has to survive, we must assume that the link and dependence
of the phenomena that we refer to external objects, only exists in within us, and we attribute
causality to external objects, only belongs to our own actions.

Pulling a cord that is in the office, long years ago rings a bell,
or in idealistic language, the internal phenomenon consists of sensations
that you enter what we call cord and pull it produces or brings with
it other than sound surnamed the bell.

By the habit, or a hidden law either, there the relationship of two
never interrupted succession phenomena which cause us the illusion,
why move to the real order that is purely fantastic.

This is the least irrational explanation may dip, but with few observations can be made to
feel all the futility of such a response.

Today, we pull the cord, and strangely enough, the bell does not sound
... What is the cause?

The causal phenomenon exists, it certainly happens within us we call the act, throwing the cord,
and yet we toss and roll again, and the bell does not ring. Who has altered phenomenal succession?
Why a phenomenon occurred shortly before the other, and now not? In my new interior has not occurred:
the first phenomenon I experience with the same clarity and vividly than before, why is it
that is not present the second? How is it that the latter experienced it whenever he wanted,
just to excite the first, and now not? The act of my will is exercised with the same efficiency
as before, who has made my will is impotent?

From this it follows two things: 1. Nd that the latter phenomenon is not dependent on the first,
considered this only as a purely internal, because now there is this the same way in the previous
cases, and yet produce the other 2. ª nor dependent act of my will, because the act is firm
and resolute as ever, and accomplishes nothing.

Although this can not be doubted that there was any link between the two phenomena, since infinite
often been observed that one followed the other, what can not be
explained by mere chance.

Not being as the one causes the other in the internal order, must have a dependency on the outer
order: that is, if I am discussing, but continued to exist the cause that produced the one,
debióse to terminate the connection that this case had to that produced the other, and that
was in effect, pulling the cord, the sound did not come for the simple
reason that the bell had been removed.

This is understandable, having external causes of which are called sensations: but if these are reduced
to simple internal phenomena can not be indicate a reasonable reason.

[29.] And it is noteworthy that when I explain the lack of succession of these sensations previously
they were always together, I can resort to many that are very different phenomena internal,
as such they have no relationship or similarity, and can only have some correspond to link in external
objects. When looking for why not ring the bell to explain the reason that has altered the regular
order in my appearance, I can think of several causes, which now also considered as mere appearances,
or phenomena Internal: I can receive the following sensations: the
broken cord, the cord embroiled the broken bell, the bell removed,
the bell without badajuelo; to all these sensations I can I refer
the lack of sound, and refer to them will be the most irrational of
the world if considered as a mere internal events because, as sensations
are nothing like, and I argue rationally only if to each of these
feelings do you match an object external alone enough to interrupt
the connection of the act of pulling the cord, with air vibration
produces sound.

[30.] From these considerations follows:

1 º. That considering our feelings as purely internal phenomena are divided into two very different
kinds, some which depend on our will, other independent of it; some unrelated to each other, or variables
in their relations, enjoyed the experience, others subject to a certain connection that we
can not destroy or alter.

2 º. So the existence of any modification of the latter class of cases from are not we, of
causes beyond our control, and which are outside of us. Then the instinct that drives us to relate
these feelings to external objects, is confirmed for the reason, then the testimony of the senses
is admissible in the court of philosophy as we are assured of the
reality of the objects.

This is demonstrated in a way the existence of bodies, since that review philosophically the concept
of body, found in him a different thing from our be, and whose presence causes us such and such
sensations.

The intimate nature of bodies is unknown to us, and even when they knew this would be useless
for our purpose, they do not treat them the idea that in this case would form the philosopher, but
which are the generality of men.

CHAPTER VI.

IF THE STOCK and external causes of sensations is a free cause.

[31.] Against the existence of bodies, can challenge a difficult, serious at first view, but in
reality is futile. Who knows, they say, if there is any cause which in us all the phenomena we
experience, without being anything like the idea that we formed of
a body?

God, if he wished, could result in us or many feelings, Without any
body, who assures us that this does not happen?

Who gives us the certainty they can not do the same thing other beings,
and therefore it is not a pure illusion everything imagine on a corporeal
world?

[32.] The first and easiest solution offered is that God, being infinitely truthful can not
deceive us, nor allow other creatures to deceive us constantly and in a manner to us irresistible,
but this solution, although well founded, reasonable and sensible, has the disadvantage of using
the moral order to build the physical, and so will not fully satisfied those who would wish to see
demonstrated the truth of the testimony of senses, with arguments
drawn from the very nature of things.

I think the latter can be achieved: I am going to try.

[33.] Our feelings do not come immediately for a free cause, unless both the experience, such as
that occurs, are subject to fixed laws, to a necessity. We convinced of this if we think that
putting under certain conditions, we can not help feeling a certain feeling, and that lacking
such conditions, we can not experience it: it proves that we and the being that causes us the
impression, we subject to an order necessary.

Were it not so, we would not produce the sensation owners or even by certain conditions as
the cause because it would not be subject to a law but his free will, would happen a thousand
times than we would disagree with his, and therefore would not exist the impression that we
wanted.

We know that after experiencing the sensation of touch with who we think that a body dense cover
our eyes, we see, and we want more is not impossible to produce in us the sensation we call seeing,
on the contrary, removing the feeling of body contact dense, and in time and place for us is
impossible not to experience the sensation to see different objects,
this proves that in this part we are subject to a necessity; but also
proves that being that causes us feelings is subject to a similar
need, and to put the condition of covering the eyes, a thousand times
to our whim, disappears also a thousand times stronger, and given
the condition of uncovered and open them in a lighted area, and repeating
over and over again to test our fancy, a thousand times it is also
the feeling: the same, if we leave it all in the same state, varied
according to our taste, if we change place, or various objects that
he has.

Then there was us with a set of beings subject to necessary laws, which produce our feelings.

[34.] It is also noteworthy that the influence they exert on us not only did not result in them of choice
or spontaneity, but even presented as having activity own. The picture on the wall would give me the
same feeling a thousand times, if a thousand sometimes stared at him, and unless the erosion
of time, would be producing the same by eternity.

It is also clear that these beings are subject to our action, as they apply to different we own them
ways to produce different impressions.

I'm playing a ball, and continuity of the sensation of a smooth body, hard and spherical, assures
me that it is a same being the place for some time, and yet, within
this range, with view receipt of the same object multiple sensations,
introducing you to the light in different ways.

[35.] The subjection of these beings to necessary laws, not just with respect to the sensations,
but rather is a link with each other. The connection of the impressions that they receive, is
dependent effect that some have compared to other: so that to produce
a particular impression, we use many times an object, not used to
this, when considered in itself, but provides us getting what we want
in action to another.

The draw back a curtain has nothing to do with a magnificent landscape; yet many times but when we do
not provide the nice view: then the relationship is not to serve the feelings but of its objects:
connection with these is that which induces us to avail ourselves of the one to get the other.

Then
there was us with a set of beings subject to fixed laws, both in terms to our feelings as between
themselves, then there's the external world, then the inner us it
represents, it is a pure illusion.

CHAPTER VII.

ANALYSIS OF THE OBJECTIVITY OF THE SENSATIONS.

[36.] The external world, is just as we figured it? These beings that cause us feelings, and we
call bodies, are in fact what we believe? After demonstrate the existence of such beings, and
its necessary subjection to constant laws, do not yet we doubt whether
we have demonstrated the existence of bodies?

Is it enough for this object, have proven that there are external beings in relationship with
us and each other, through fixed and necessary laws, independent of them and us?

[37.] To fully understand this question, it will be convenient simplified
to a single object.

I have to my view and in my hand an apple. As shown above, I am sure that There is an external
being, related to other beings and with mine by necessary laws, I am it true that my views are
different: see its color, shape and size, feel his smell, taste experiment, I feel in the hand
of their magnitude, their weight, figure, its concavities and convex, and also hear the faint
sound bouncing when the nudging.

The idea of ??body is a composite idea, and so the apple will be:
a thing external large, colorful, fragrant and tasty.

Whenever you meet these circumstances, that is, whenever I receive an object the same views,
I will say that I have in sight an apple.

[38.] Let us now examine the extent to which the object corresponds to the sensations it causes.

What
do we mean when we say we mean is something tasty?

Nothing else but that makes us an impression on the palate nice: the self is checked against
the smell. Then the two words fragrant and tasty, only express the causality of these feelings,
resident in the external object. For the color, we can say the same, because although commonly
transfer the sensation to the object and put ourselves in some contradiction
to the philosophical theory color and light, this contradiction is
only apparent, since in the end, it examined the trial, only the printing
is referred to specific objects, for so when first we hear in the
departments of natural colors are not the object easily get used to
reconcile the philosophical theory of meaning with the impression,
because in the end that theory does not alter the truth that such
and such impressions are coming from these or those points of different
objects.

[39.] In this part, it is difficult to explain the phenomena of feeling, no correspondence
of them with external objects, because this correspondence is enough to save them are really the
cause (or occasion) of them. It's not as easy task as regards the extension, as this property
is as the basis for all other sensitive, and regardless whether or not it is the essence of bodies,
the truth is that we can not conceive of body where there is no extension.

[40.] This will feel the difference going from the extension to the other grades sensitive to following
observation. When we have not ever thought of the relation of external objects with our feelings,
we do not know what confusion on these points, and the color, smell, taste and even sound, somehow
transferred to the same objects, considering confused these as qualities
inherent to them.

So the child and the rustic feel that is really green in the leaves, the smell is in the rose, the
sound in the Bell, taste the fruit. But it is easy to see that this is a confusing trial that
not realize to themselves clearly; trial that can be altered and even destroyed without destroying
or altering the overall relationship of our senses with objects. Thus, even very young age, we
got used to easily refer to the light color and up to set you on is definitely not, but to look
at him as an impression produced in our sense of the mysterious action
of this agent.

The smell does not trouble us regarded as a sensation emanating from the action of the waves
of a body on organ of smell and the sound left to consider what something inherent in the body
sound, and we see it more than the impression conveyed in the direction of the vibration of air,
moved to turn the vibration of sound body.

These philosophical considerations which at first sight, it seemed to be in contradiction with
our view, do not alter the external world for us, not cause a disruption in the ideas we form
of him, only make us more secure attention in some relationships deslindábamos evil, and do not
allow us to attribute to objects, more than you actually have. We do limit the testimony of
the senses to the field they belong, in some measure rectified the judgments that had formed,
but the world remains the same as before, except that the charms of nature, found in more
intimate relationship with ourselves, noting that they have most part our organization and
our soul than we imagined.

[41.] But destroy the extension, removing foreign objects that quality, let's pretend she is nothing
more than a mere sensation, without knowing anything except that
there is an object we are the cause, and since then, the corporeal
world disappears.

The whole system of universe be reduced to a set of things that cause us different impressions,
but the extension removed no idea we form of the body, we do not know if everything we thought
about the world is more than a pure illusion.