 If the princess or queen Briolanja not have done so many crazy and been
so outrageous Amadis heart attacks, how he had proved his fidelity Mrs. Oriana admirable or
how he would have made worthy to carry out the adventure Firm Island, with mirror, North and
True Lovers Guide?

People running around in confusion, censoring of very vicious and about truth, let me how familiar
the word, the scene where the Duchess tries to seduce Ignacio. But how censor such thing, when
the Year Cristiano contains quite a few scenes far more raw? San Vicente Ferrer, for instance, was
rushed twice Very beautiful ladies love him, which brought disappointment and they were playing
tablets, despite the efforts made, and delivered to the very demons, his staff and guides efforts
as wanton and lascivious. And note that these ladies pledged to San Vicente, broke thousand times
more against the holy Ignacio broke against the Duchess. Suffice it to recall that a San Vicente
once when he returned to his cell, was found tucked in bed at the pretty lady you intended.

With
no less depravity was chased San José de Calasanz founder of the
Pious Schools with the aggravating circumstance of deliberate and
persistent breach of trust occurred in the persecutor, daughter of
confession of Venerable Servant of God who came to inquire about the
sham and finer scruples of conscience.

St. Thomas Aquinas, the Angel of the School, had to fight the unholy love less brave and frightening
battles.

One day he was so haunted by a beautiful woman who clung in his arms,
which had be rejected and then pushed to dispel the chase with a lighted
stick.

Finally, a reward for such an important victory, two angels came down from heaven and confined
themselves to saint's miraculous virginal girdle of purity, which, though it hurt a lot when
girded it, was, as it were sure to fire up.

With the above I think he left showed that the seduction scene between
the Duchess and Ignacio, far from being sinful is exemplary and uplifting.

And let also shown that is not there today so seductive duchess has increased corruption in a class
society than others, and at the present time in the past. The same corruption appears in time
of the Pharaohs and repeated in Phaedra, in Briolanja and the women empecatadas of which managed
to win the three most glorious saints whom we have cited. Does not imply more corruption, no need
to attribute the author of the novel more pessimistic, so that it justified vengeance by taking
the Duchess Ignacio know their shame. Almost all women of ancient times when they are more
fiercely despised retaliate.

Why poisons introduced If nature had Downs to kill?

    
    What atrocities and
    heinous crimes do not make the heroine's devotion to the Cross, the
Catholic playwright irritated by us represents a contempt not real,
but imagined!

Driven by their passion Julia decides to commit and commit such crimes

Will spook the world Admiration of the times Horror at the same sin
And terror of hell.

    
    
    The revenge, then that
    takes the Duchess making Ignacio see his disgrace, is a trifle, is
a bargain when compared to other thousand vendettas, born of grievances
of the sort.
