 This put blemishes at all. Fayolle
enthusiastically defended the amateur and merchant. In a moment of pause said taking out his
watch:

- I will not bother you more .... Cuentesita came to collect the last.

The Duke's face darkened. Between laughing and then said angrily:

- But, man, they are not happy but you never sacándole one money!

At the same time put his hand into his pocket and pulled out his wallet. M. Fayolle always
smiled, saying, I was sorry, because the Duke was a poor and did
not like asking anyone to take alms, etc., etc. A portion of little
jokes that the banker does not seem to listen, attentive to count
tickets.

Had seven hundred pesetas and handed, while pressing ringing for an extended dependent on receipt.
Fayolle also attended and said:

- It is wrong, Duke. The pressures of the horse was four thousand.

Here there more than three thousand.

The Duke gave no signs of hearing.

With drooping eyelids, puffing his cigar and walking a another angle
of the mouth, remained silent and kept the portfolio again after having
tight with a rubber band.

- There are five hundred pesetas, Duke
- Fayolle repeated.

- How?

Are there missing five hundred pesetas?

It can not be .... Let's see, tell you again.

The trader told.

- There are three thousand five hundred ....

-
You see you!

I was not wrong.

- Is that the horse costs four thousand: and we have acoustic.

Duke's face expressed surprise admirably.

- How four thousand?

No man, no, the horse costs three thousand. On that understanding I bought it.

- Sir Duke, you are wrong - Fayolle said getting serious -. Remember you had remained in the
four thousand.

- I remember perfectly. Which has a short memory you .... A watch (addressing the dependent who
came to extend the receipt), one of you come down to the garage and ask Benigno on what has
been adjusted Pollio.

At the same time, seizing the moment in which the employee looked Fayolle, winked expressive.

The driver replied dependent mouth of the horse had been set at three
thousand five hundred pesetas.

So the merchant was angry.

I was quite sure that had remained in the four thousand. In that
case it was delivered.

Otherwise never have let the horse out block. The Duke left him talk all they wanted, running
only a grunt of course, but without altered little or much. Only when told to stay Fayolle again
with the horse, said with sarcasm:

- Apparently, you found yourself which of the four thousand and want to undo the deal, right?

-
Sir Duke, I swear to you by the most sacred thing there is nothing
that .... I'm only sure it is as I say.

The banker will then promptly undertook a loud fit of coughing.

You put your eyes burning, crimson cheeks. Then he calmly wiped his mouth with a handkerchief
and noses, folksy accent and said:

- Men, do not be stingy.

You is not altered by these miserable pesetas.

But he did not let go. The vendor wanted to take the horse. Neither
could do it.

There a moment of silence. Fayolle was about to throw everything rolling and shameless, but was repressed
whereas nothing would move, least bring the matter to court. Who would sue for five hundred pesetas
and more with a character like the Duke of Requena? Resigned, then,
with flushed cheeks still be fired without the Duke not to take him
very politely to the door, giving loving pats on the back.

When the
hero resumed his seat at the table, under your weary eyelids shone
a grin of triumph. After a few minutes pulled the bell button again:

-
Go and see if the duchess is alone in her room or have seen - told
servant who came to the point.

While carrying out the commission
remained inactive, with the body thrown back and hands clasped in
an attitude reflective.

- The duchess is visiting with the father
Ortega - the servant came to say.

Salabert made a gesture of impatience,
and was again lost in his thoughts. Was determined to hold a conference
with his wife about interests. This had never spoken anything money.
He did not ever believed in the case of giving account of his speculations
and business