 And if you seviyanas hey say that if that
if Malaga, say that is chickweed. Jerez is the key in der cante. I declare that toos the sages
of the world.

When Rafael was felt strongly he had to terminate this period of sweet intimacy. One evening
he spoke alone with Mr. Fermin. He could not stay there, and soon reach the tenants, and home entertainment
Marchamalo regain her small town. In addition, Don Pablo announced plans to tear down the
mansion, to build that castle with which dreamed as a glorification of his family. Rafael explain
how their presence in the vineyard? It was a shame that a man of his energies to remain there,
without occupation, living under his godfather.

The matter seemed forgotten that night. He was not afraid to be persecuted, but he was determined
not to return to her old life.

- With vast, godfather had your honor right. Neither this is an honest way to make bread, nor
is there jembra to put up with a waiter how much money you bring home may die crummy.

He felt no fear, never!, But had his plans for the future. Wanted to obtain a family, like his father,
as his godfather, and not spend her life by throwing them in check
on the mountain.

Seek a more honest and peaceful occupation, but knew hunger.

And that's when Mr. Fermín, using his influence with Dupont, Rafael made Matanzuela overseer
of the farmhouse, owned by the nephew of the late Don Pablo.

The so Luis Jerez had again become a man, after a continuous pilgrimage all universities in Spain,
looking for professors who did not have leeway effort to frustrate future lawyers. His uncle had
an obligation to pursue a career, and while it lived, had resigned to lead the life of a student,
adjusting to close remittances and augment them with fierce loans, for which he signed in
the eyes how many papers they wanted to introduce closed loan sharks.

But to see the front of the family his cousin Paul and his next oldest, had refused to continue longer
comedy of their studies. He was rich, did not want to waste time on things that nothing interested
him. He took possession of his property, started the free existence of pleasure with which he had
dreamed of his close student life.

He traveled throughout Spain, but it was not to pass a subject here and beyond: aspired to be an
authority on the art of bullfighting, a great man of the fans, and went from place to place next
to your favorite matador, witnessing all of their runs. In winter, when resting their idols,
lived in Jerez in the care of their estates, and this care was passed
night at the Circle Caballista, heatedly discussing the merits of
his killer and the inferiority of their rivals, but with such vehemence,
that if a wound received years before a bull, of which there were
no bones or had been dropped or in place tentábase clothing over the
gun, the knife, the whole arsenal carrying on his person, as a guarantee
of value and the arrogance with which solved their issues.

No horse came out beautiful and Jerez stud price, not to buy it, engaging Bid with her cousin,
who was richer than him. At night, the mountaineers of the grocery stores will were entered
as a harbinger of storm, confident they would end up breaking bottles and plates and throwing
chairs through the air, to prove it was a real man and could then
afford all at triple price.

His ambition lay in being the continuation of the glorious San Marquis Dionisio, but in the Circle
Caballista said of him that was just a caricature.

- Le Farta the
estate, the one of the blessed scored - Mr. Fermin said after learning
of feats of Louis, whom he knew since childhood.

Women and the brave were the two passions of Master. With them was not very generous, wanted to be
adored by his merits rider arrogant, believing in good faith Jerez balconies all shook with the pounding
of hearts hidden when passing riding the last horse he had just purchased. With the court with
him, pests and bullies were more splendid. There was around the end of a bully famous Jerez sad not been
there he attracted by his liberality. Those who went to prison did not have to worry about
their fate, Don Luis was a good friend and also to give them money, they admired. When late-night carousing
at the end of the convenience stores, he felt drunk, scorned their loved ones to fix all his admiration
bronze in men who accompanied him. Was to show him the scars of his wounds, which described
his heroic fights. Many Sometimes, in the Circle Caballista pointed to a man Malcarado friends
waiting for him at the door.

- That's the Goat - said with the pride
of a prince who speaks of his great generals .-- A man who was dragged
along the ground tassels.

Between shooting and stabbing is over fifty scars on the skin.

I looked at all with insolent superiority, as if the scars were a
statement buddy of self-worth, and lived happily believing that everything
Jerez no one would dispute his guapeza with men and their good fortune
with women.

When the foreman Marchamalo spoke in favor of Rafael, the gentleman
admitted immediately.

I had heard the boy, was his own (and he said this took the air guard a teacher), I remembered certain
shots in the mountains and the fear that had the the shelter. Nothing, that stayed with him
and liked men.

- I will place in my farmhouse Matanzuela - said stroking Rafael friendly slap, like a new disciple
.-- The overseer I have is a short-sighted old media, which laugh the farmhands. And we know
what are the workers, poor people! With them, bread in one hand, and stick in the other. I need
a man like you, who put them in waist look after my interests.

And Rafael went to the farmhouse, not returning to the vineyard more than once a week, when
I was Jerez to talk to the master of the affairs of the farm. I often had to look at the house
of one of its protected. I got in bed, sitting on the cushion, resting in another head. The new
overseer laughed alone the bluster of his master, more attentive to recommend the hardness and
"metiese waist" to the lazy who worked their fields, to learn about agricultural operations, blaming
the poor harvests the farmhands, a scoundrel who would not work and wished that the masters were
to become servants, as if the world could turn upside down.

Don Luis came to forget about their hobbies and their amorous exploits bullying when he spoke boorish
people of the fields, driven by false apostles wanted to divide it all. He had studied (as
declared pompously at the Circle Caballista, regardless of the smiles of those who heard him),
he knew what he wanted the workers were utopias, that is, utopias (and repeated with pleasure the
word), and that all that happened was because governments do not "put into shape" for the laborers,
and also by lack of religion. Yes sir, religion: it was the brake of the poor, and as there
was less, the underdog, under the pretext of hunger, they wanted to eat the above.

These words were no longer smile Caballista partners, but those approved earnest gestures, with
all their faith in rich farmers, who shrugged his shoulders when a proposed deluded swamps and
canals, and every year large parties coasting to the Virgin of Merced, pulling it in supplication
just missing the water to their fields.

Despite these ideas that spread Luis in his moments of seriousness, saying that better went
about things if the governor, Don Pablo Dupont abhorred his cousin,
considering a shame to the family.

This relative, who renewed the scandals of San Dionisio, aggravated, according to Dona Elvira
plebeian in origin, was a calamity in a house that had always instilled respect for its noble
and holy customs. To make matters worse were the Marquis girls, Lola and Mercedes. The times
when his aunt choked with indignation, surprised by the night a grid floor of their hotel, talking
with the couple, which were renewed almost weekly! Tan lieutenants were soon back, as gentlemen's
horses, or young Englishmen, employees on desks, which were excited by stripping the country-style
turkey and made laugh Andalusian girls with British broken. There was no boy in Jerez had not
its time to talk with marquesitas unwrapped. Faced them all: just stand at their gates to enter
into dialogue, and without stopping passersby were persecuted the laughter and hisses sounded
ironic that behind him. Dupont's widow could not dominate his nieces, and they, in turn, and grew
up, showed themselves more insolent the devout lady. It was in vain that his cousin banned
from the bars. Burlábanse him and his mother, adding that they were not born to nuns. Listened hypocritical
gesture talks of the confessor of Dona Elvira recommending submission, and made use of all
kind of easy ways to communicate with the leading men on foot and
on horseback roamed the streets.

A Master of the Horse, son of a farmer, a great friend of the house Dupont, fell in love Lola, asking
her to marry in haste, as if afraid that he escaped.

Dona Elvira and her son accepted the application: The Circle raised eyebrows the value of that boy
marrying a daughter of the Marquis of San Dionisio.

This marriage was to release the two sisters. The single went to the other emancipate joyous
end of the sullen and devoted aunt, and a few months back to resume husband at home watching
habits near Dupont.

Mercedes spent the night in the privacy fence in tight with the couple, his sister with an
air of acompañábala lady, and talked with others to not waste time. The husband protested,
trying to rebel. But the two were indignant against him because he dared to interpret these
diversions innocent in a way offensive to her modesty.

Which of the two provided dislikes Marquis, as they were called in the city, the Dona Elvira
austere! ... Mercedes, the single, escaped with a rich Englishman. From time to time vague
news came that made pale with anger to the noble lady.

Sometimes they saw in Paris, others in Madrid, leading a life of elegant courtesan. Frequently
changed protectors, as attracted by his grace dozens picaresque. Further, in certain vanities produced
a great impression the title of Marchioness of San Dionisio, who had joined his name, nobility and
the crown that adorned their shirts at night and the sheets of a bed so popular as a main street
sidewalk.

Dupont's widow thought he would die to know such things. Lord, and for this were born the illustrious
men of his family, viceroys, archbishops and captains, giving the monarch titles and domains!
To serve as a prospect so much glory to a bad woman! ... And yet it was the best of both worlds.
At last he had fled for not insult about his family, and if she lived in sin, was among men
of a certain lineage, always decent, as is influenced in her respects to the rank of his family.

But
there was another, the eldest, married woman, and she wanted to end all killing relatives
shame. Married life after the escape of Mercedes, was hell.

The husband lived in perpetual suspicion, going blind in his suspicions, not knowing who to
be fixed because his wife looked equally to all men, as if it were offered to the eyes, talking
with a freedom that encouraged all kinds of daring. Fermin was jealous of Montenegro, which
had just arrived from London, and resumed his child intimacy Lola
frequent visitors, attracted by its picaresque language.

The domestic scenes ended with blows.

The husband, on the advice of friends, went to the slap and stick to tame the "wild beast",
but the little animals that justified the nickname, because when
stirred with vigor and aggressiveness of a feral child worthy of his
illustrious father, returned the blows so that was always the spouse
who was spared worse.

Often presented in the Circle Caballista with scratches on his face and bruised signals.

- With this you can not - he said friends in a tone of compassion .-- It is very funny woman
for you.

And celebrating the energy of Lola, the admired, with the secret hope of some day the disadvantaged.

The
scandal was so great that the husband retired to his parents and Marcasite was finally able to live
at home.

- Go away - the day her cousin said Dupont .-- You and your sister are our shame. Flee away and
where I will send you the necessary to live.

But Lola said with a lewd gesture, delighting in shock to his devoted family member. He pleased not
to go, and did not leave. She was very Flemish liked the land and its people. Would leave little
more than death.

Madrid walked some time with her sister, but his travels were short lived. Was a cañí, legitimate
daughter of the Marquis of San Dionisio. Not to take from it its juerguecitas until dawn, touching
palms and heels sitting with their skirts at the knees! That do not deprive the local wine,
it was his blood and happiness! If the family was raging, raging. She wanted to be a gypsy
like his father. Hated the gentlemen, he liked Pavero men in hats, and if they had zajones the better,
but real men, smelling block male and sweaty. And walking the fine blonde beauty with porcelain
meat grocery stores and inns, dealing with a fraternity exaggerated to the singers and prostitutes
that involved in binges, requiring that tuteasen, and laughing with nervous joy of drunk when
men, stupefied by wine, pull out the knives and females huddle frightened in a corner.

This life of drunkenness, noise, fights and alcohol that had seen fondling girl in the parental
home, atraíala ancestral hard, giving it without remorse, as whether
to continue a family tradition.

In their nocturnal outings, catching arm rustic lover enjoyed his momentary infatuation, was
with Louis Dupont and his entourage of happy people.

Cousins ??called themselves by their distant relative, got drunk together, and Luis said his
decision to go to death with anyone who does not confess that Marquesita was "the woman Barbiana
of the earth." But despite the retirements of Lola, which allowed the skull appreciate their physical
secrets, and that more than once accompanied her to her house through the deserted streets, struggling
to contain their outbursts of hysterical that drove the scandal their relationship never became
a friendly intimacy. Luis felt certain hindrances in the desire and later left for the easy
business, as if Cohiba memory of the period of childhood they had spent together.

Commented citywide Marquesita scandals of the exhilarating much amazement
of the people quiet.

The same thing they saw in the main streets or in the elegantly dressed Country Fair in a luxurious
carriage, as it appeared disheveled, wrapped in a shawl walking copying of the girls wild
and answering the blandishments of the men with words blush many. He liked to smile with mysterious
gestures of complicity in the peaceful gentlemen she passed by with their families. After laughing
like crazy thinking complaints exploding the marital home and solemn marriages that honored
her had tried when she lived with her husband.

In one long side of the street, with tables the major casinos, had
kissed a friend exaggerated passion transport between the shouting
of the people who came to the door.

His last love was a young dealer in pigs, an athlete and warbler flat with living in the suburb.
One secret to this strong male's crazy. Spoke of him with pride, delighting in the contrast between
his birth and occupation of her lover. Occasionally suffered fits of levity and was absent
from the hut of the suburbs for a few days. The uncouth lover not wanted, making his return for
safe, and to return the wayward bird, whole neighborhood put on alert
with the blows and screams out the balcony Marquesita with her hair
down, asking for help, until a paw the started of the iron and got
inside to continue the thrashing.

If a friend spoke with buzzing tone of loving beatings, he answered with pride:

- He hits me because I can see, and I love him because he is the only one who understands me.
My swineherd is a man.

The scandals of the Marquesita outraged many, and rejoiced at the most. Popular people looked at
with some sympathy, as if their debasement flattered egalitarian instinct from below. Wealthy
families and devotees who could not deny their relationship to those of San Dionisio, looked
before as a title of pride, said with resignation: "It must be crazy, God will touch your soul
to repent. "

Those who resigned were not Dupont: Don Pablo and his mother, who returned to his hotel moody
and confused every time they saw on the streets the blond bun and
Lola insolent smile.

Les seemed that people were less respectful to them because of poor female dishonor family.
Even thought they saw in the raised certain smile, as if the insult them joy inferred that this
crazy relatives. Dupont lords began to frequent less the streets of the city, passing many days
on his farm in Marchamalo to avoid meeting the Marquesa and the people
who commented on his eccentricities.

This move away from Jerez allowed Dupont make their dreams on Marchamalo. Broke down the old
house and built new wineries, a beautiful house for his family, a chapel spacious and rich
as a temple, and a square tower with pointed battlements overlooking the waves of hills covered
with vines, which formed the great Marchamalo domain. Everything was new and solid, built with
great waste of money. Only left the house standing Dupont of the tenants, so that the farm
does not completely lose its traditional character, retaining The
smoky kitchen many years, in which laborers were sleeping around of
fogaril on a rush mat, only bed that gave them the Lord.

Fermín Montenegro, to go on holidays to visit his family, was always
with their owners.

Thus grew insensibly his dealings with Don Pablo. In the middle of the countryside, under the
bright blue sky, seemed to soften the imperious character of Dupont, making treat their subject
with more affection than on the desktop.

Watching the waves of strains that covered the slopes white, rich admired grower the fertility of his
farm, modestly attributing God's protection. Some spots extended their tragic barren desolation
among the foliage of the branches.

Traces were phylloxera that had ruined half Jerez.

Growers, crushed by falling wines, could not afford to replant their vineyards. It was a land
that aristocratic and expensive that only the rich could cultivate. Put back into operation a cost
aranzadas well as maintaining a decent family for a year. But the house was Dupont affluent
and could deal with the plague.

- Look, Ferminillo - said Don Paul, - all these clearly going to plant the American vine. With
this, and, above all, with God's help, you'll see how the thing goes well. The Lord is with those who
love Him.

Dona Elvira, meanwhile, did not descend to make confident of his thoughts to the family of Montenegro,
but deigned to speak with some frankness, which caused astonishment in their household in
the city. The noble lady was softened his pride living in the countryside. He spoke with Mr.
Fermin trying to figure out what was going Jerez church on Sundays
with Maria de la Luz, for mass ... To see the daughter of the foreman
abstract, putting his thoughts far, far away in the farmhouse where
he lived Rafael, the good lady played this sadness as a desire to
retreat, and offered his protection.

- No, ma'am - the girl said
smiling, - I do not want to be a nun.

A strip me of life.

Fermín Montenegro was not a secret for spiritual troubles, large setbacks suffered by the widow
of Dupont because of business. His son had to deal people of all classes, heretics and men without
religion, foreigners who drank wine of the house, and going through Jerez were to be greeted
with the treat they deserve good customers. Be good servants of the Lord and have to treat their
enemies as if they were Same!

In vain the Fathers of the Church of San Ignacio dissipated his scruples remembering the importance
of business and the influence exerted so powerful a house on the religiosity Jerez. Dona Elvira
only reconciled with its famous wine cellars where once a year out
for Rome a cask of wine, sweet and syrupy, for the Mass Pope on the
recommendation of several bishops, friends of the house. The honor
of serving as soothing. Still, what troubles did not suffer those
nasty blond foreign who had the audacity to read the Bible in their
own way and in their language, without believing in His Holiness or
go to Mass! ...

Montenegro knew one of the recent troubles of the
pious lady, who had reported the servants of the house.

The Dupont
had a Swedish traveler, the best agent for your business. Put thousands
and thousands bottles of wine produced Marchamalo fire in northern
countries almost endless nights and sunny days, which last month.
The salesman, after many years service to the house, had come to Spain,
to Jerez, to personally meet to Dupont. Don Pablo had thought indispensable
to dinner with his family.

Horrible torment that her mother suffered
at the stranger, huge body, red and talkative, with the childlike
joy of the Northmen when they come into contact with the sun and wines
from warmer countries