 Mayor Don Roque, who from time immemorial
had been attending the shop in company with Don Morana Segis Chaplain Augustinian nuns and Don
Benigno the curate of the parish, and drinking during of the night, four to eight glasses of
wine from Rueda, depending on the circumstances, could not suffer the domestic hearth more than
three days and also went to the street. He was accompanied by octogenarian Sheriff Marcones
with carbine and saber. He went armed with pistol and sword.

Then and later, were going out and spreading through the night gatherings Don Melchor, Gabino
Maza, Pedro Miranda, Delaunay, Don Mateo, and everyone else. The Indians took longer. The same
store Graells than the Saloncillo Morana and were transformed when night falls in real stocks.
Each one of those who were arriving left Arrimadas to the wall their weapons and military equipment.
When exiting turn to take up with a dauntless courage, Cantabrian worth the blood that almost
all wore in the veins. There the old blunderbuss spark alternated as equals with the modern
American rifle twelve shots, the sword cylindrical iron with burnished sprat who keep the new poles,
the puppy rough bronze with niello revolver. And this same diversity contributed powerfully lethal weapons
to maintain in all breasts the war spirit is so necessary at that time.

They had taken some very wise, very useful. Until twelve o'clock the watchmen were ordered not
to turn off any lamp. To those they had provided new whistles infinitely louder than the old. Prevention
also had to monitor any stranger who walk the streets. Among the neighbors had agreed judiciously do
not let anyone sidewalk from ten onwards as it was not a friend. Is known all the huge impact
it has on crime this habit of leaving the pavement. With this reason, finding a night on the
streets of San Florencio Miranda and Don Pedro Feliciano Gomez, both wrapped in their carriks, with
rapiers drawn, prevented for any event Feliciano Pedro yelled at from afar:

- Hey, friend, the brook!

- Phs, phs, you let him depart - Don Pedro
answered.

- Who should you depart - replicates the merchant .-- The
stream, the stream!

- Phs, phs, then you please stop the passage
ex - meets Mr. Miranda.

Neither moved from its site.

Habíanse unmasked and showed sharp tip and of florets.

- Have the kindness ...

- Do you treat ...

Who knows the horrible tragedy that had occurred in Sarrió, if, after
quite a while found these men over and arrested on his way, had not
been recognized?

- Would you perhaps don Feliciano?

...

- Would you Don Pedro?

- Don Feliciano!

- Don Pedro!

And they came running and they shook hands warmly.

- What luck have you had that would have recognized, Don Feliciano!
- Said Mr Miranda showed his broad sword iron fist bone.

- Because
of you have not been small, Pedro! - Answered the merchant wielding
in a thin air and bluing of Toledo.

To enter the shop needed Morana down two steps. The shop was a sweet-shop even if they seem, the
only candy that were then in Sarrió. Today, if I mistake not, now has three. And it seemed to
say no, because they were sold church candles, hand and foot and heads and trunks of wax for
deals. These objects had been gradually filling all its scope, from trading to cool the main
virtue of the no sweet tooth were the residents of that town. And this is one of the characteristics
that claim for her. In Spain is very general that the inhabitants of the villages and small
towns are given with passion for sweets.

Not enjoying the pleasures of all sorts that provide the big cities, sensuality escapes from
there.

Perhaps it is argued that the Augustinian nuns Sarrió also produced sweet, but we note that this
production was limited exclusively to cheese plum, quince, pear and apricot, the occasional
almond cake and borage, and a very special sweet like the scales of the fish called orange
blossom. No doubt it; in Sarrió were few greedy. After all, this rare virtue in the towns of the
interior, not so much in maritime populations less subject, as is known, the clerical influence.
Because according to the observation that may be traveling through the towns of the interior
of Spain, there eat more sweets where worship and religious practices absorb more of the life
and greater power of religious feeling translates into novenas, rosaries
sung fraternities and canons.

This shows that there must be some mysterious affinity between mysticism and confectionery.

This
was displayed in the shop Morana two painted pine cabinets blue glass doors located at both
of sides of the counter. These cabinets was kept a reasonable amount of candy, donuts dipped,
sighs, muffins, almond, and above all, the spreaders praised and whose reputation will be very
famous tablets certainly reached the ears of our readers. Everything from ancient times. The
tablets, whose composition magic we could never find out, had an irresistible attraction, based,
rare case! in its extraordinary hardness. At an age when they ate the tablets how important
the Morana was not the sweets were delicate, delicious, exquisite, but that lasted long. To make
the teeth bite into them, was forced permeating previously a fabulous amount of saliva. Once
driven into its high-sticky paste grade, separate them again came to be a real problem. Let me
dedicate a delicate reminder of sympathy and recognition of these tablets from four to eight
years are linked to the happiest moments of my life. At the sugar influx may be the author of
this book the flower of optimism, which, critics say, shine in his works.

La Morana, daughter and heiress of another Morana already dead, was
a woman of forty, pale, with patches of gutta-percha in the temples
for headaches.

She was married to a John Chrysostom, which in the words of Don Segis, chaplain, was not the Chrysostomos.
No However, when administered a beating to his wife, used to show some unusual erudition.

- "I who loved this woman - he exclaimed with tenderness, snuggling
the stick to the wall .-- I I loved this woman as wife and not as
a servant, as mandated by the Apostle Paul!

... Did you you read the Apostle Paul? ... What you had to read you, great cow !...»

The wine was very good, almost can be said that it was the only good
thing in this establishment, and That would not stop much in the cellar.

Don Roque, Don Segis, Don Benigno, Don Juan Salado and Mr. Anselmo cabinetmaker, took care to
pass it fixed term to yours. Was white wine, strong, superior, who rose to head with astonishing
ease. The circles Store every night, between eleven and twelve, went tumbling to their homes,
but quiet, grave, without ever giving the least scandal. They used the five holding out arm in supporting
each other. Upon reaching the walls of the garden of the convent of the Augustinian urinated.
After continuing on his way without saying a word, but much huffing and puffing. Instinct, which
never completely left, I suggested this prudent conduct. Included that if they spoke little or a lot,
could become entangled in a dispute. Hence the voices and scandal Therefore ... Nothing, nothing,
it was best not complaining. To reach their homes were released muttering with clumsy language, "Good
evening." The last was Don Roque to live farther than none.

This serious, modest, patriarchal emborachaban those venerable elders
are all night of the year.

Two of them, Don Juan Salado, clerk of the City, and Don Segis, experienced and the consequences
of that life. The Salado had a nose that was scary see: when you least expect it fell on the minutes.
Don Segis had suffered a stroke, a result which dragged his right leg as if it carry arrobas
six weight. True that the insatiable chaplain was not satisfied with paneled Wine of the confectionery.
For every one that was necessary to swallow that will serve Morana a glass of gin, which carefully
poured into a bottle that led to the effect on pocket. If there were six panels, six cups, if eight,
eight. All this gin gently passed your stomach in small sips after he had gone to bed. "But
Don Segis, how much do you drink gin once? - I have no choice - he answered in a resigned tone
and humble man who broke his heart .-- If not drink a drink for every quarter pound, which would Me,
son of soul? ... I would spend the night like a horse! "

The talks were Morana shop and moved less interesting than the Club. The old commentators were
interested and very few things in the world.

Cases most serious of the town, which promoted the Saloncillo storms, were treated, or rather,
they touched lightly without any passion. Gonzalez had fired the the captain of the Carmen and appointed
in his place an Andalusian.

- When Gonzalez have - a slow and said quietly, - have their reasons.

-
It's true - answer other after a while, raising his glass to his lips.

-
Ripalda seemed a good subject - said a third, after five minutes,
leaving the glass on the counter and belching.

- Yes, it seemed -
replied another seriously.

Passed ten minutes of meditation. The gatherings gave some loving kisses the glass, topaz appeared.
Don Roque breaks the silence:

- Anyway, there is no doubt that Don Antonio scorched him.

- I burned - Don Juan says the Salado.

- I burned - confirms Don Benigno.

- I burned - corroborates Mr.
Anselmo.

- I burned completely - resume finally Don Segis grimly.

What altered the mood once in a while, was the question of pigeons. Mr. Anselmo and Don Benigno
fed unquenchable passion for these animals. Each had his loft, their breeds, breeding procedures,
and such ends often became entangled in long and lively discussions. The others listened seriously,
not daring to decide, up and down counter the glass to his lips with religious silence. The crime
of the Windmills were upset, but caused deep unease in them than in the rest of the neighborhood.
After five or six days, returned to their patriarchal customs. And such was his courage, that
most forgotten nights of weapons left in the store.

Twelve would be the edge of one, in which Don Roque had passed with three more Grilles six rate
ordinarily imposed when the five pillars of the tearoom Morana chain came in tight to their
homes. Marcones brought up the rear, with rifle on his shoulder. The first one was released
Segis don, who lived in a little two balconies, attached to the Augustinian convent. After Don Juan
was the Salado. After the coadjutor. Finally, Mr. Anselmo, pulling out the big shiny key that
served as a baton when conducted the orchestra, opened the workshop where he slept.

The mayor was just on the strength of his command. He said something, but the force did not
understand. They started walking home, which was not far. But before reaching it, Don Roque blowing
and snorting like a whale, and imitated as far as possible, swirling up gasping of this whale, suddenly
stopped, and uttered aloud a long speech, which no Marcones understood more than the word thieves,
repeated several times. He looked at the sheriff with shock all around to see if anyone saw,
setting the rifle at the same time, but observed nothing ever made him suspicious of the outlaws.
Roque turned to use a word, if that name deserved intermittent regurgitation of a portion of
sounds strange, barbaric, pitiful, that instilled sadness and horror at the same time, and Marcones
could then infer that his boss wanted them to do a sweep through the town, looking for criminals
of the Windmills.

Marcones mused that the force was low and prevented bad for that company, but the discipline not allowed
to make objections. In addition, born in his heart the hope that the murderers some fans were
taking the air at this hour. And after careful consideration weapons, they began a march through all
the dangerous streets and alleys of villa. In honor of the truth, it should be noted that Mr.
Roque was ahead and to meet a courageous leader with his revolver in his left hand and the
sword-stick on the right, exposing the first chest to lead his noble enemy. Marcones, groaning under
the weight of rifle and eighty-two years she had walked back to a distance of six steps soon.

It
was a moonlit night, but big black clouds often hid it for long.

And then the dim light of oil lamps burning in the street corners not enough to undo the shadows
that crowded into the middle of them. Consists Sarrió five main questions: la Rúa Nueva, which
flows into the spring, that of Caborana, the San Florencio, that of blacksmithing and Back.
These streets are long, wide enough and parallel. The buildings are generally low and poor.
Other secondary streets in considerable numbers, the cross and communicate. In addition, he
go outside some tails to the village, where they built sumptuous houses the Indians. They are
what might be called the expansion of the population.

Arriving on foot column by Back Street, near St. Bridget, heard screams
and laments that forced her to stop.

- What is it, Marcones? - Said
the mayor.

The old sheriff shrugged philosophically.

- Nothing, sir, will be at home in Santa Patina.

- And how dare these
mort?

... Let there Marcones, we act continuously.

"Continuous act" was a phrase that Mr. Roque used and abused.

It symbolized for him the energy, decision, the speed of the authority to remedy all damages.

Patina Santa was the high priest of one of the two temples of pleasure that existed in Sarrió.
Occasionally went into the villages and neighboring towns that brought the priestesses were
required, four ever spent. There was more cabinets, and that they slept in pairs. Dressed
the same green baize petticoat or red, the same doublet without whales, the same shirt big canvas,
the same calico handkerchief when bounded about back in the meadows and Mountains with the
cowboys neighbors. Patina Santa, as only symbols of the new and high destiny that the fate has
called them, hanging from her ears and imprisoned pearl earrings his feet with twill low-cut shoes,
which were well bonded to the house and served for all they arrived. Patina later, taking
over the world up and that the laws of progress are alienable had the audacity to enter his
temple rice powder. After doublé bought some medallions to hang around his neck with a terciopelito
black. True that all these reforms will stimulate competition disastrous he was scantily clad,
which had its school on the street the clock, on the other end the
villa.

- What scandal is this? - Roque shouted in a stentorian voice
approaching the filthy hovel.

Three or four boys who had fled into the street like birds in view of the hawk. But were the pigeons.
Two of them were at the door in shirtsleeves, leaning out the other two the windows in the same
suit.

The door wanted to pull out in view of the Mayor but he picks on
his paws.

- What is this scandal ... garlic? - Repeated.

- Mr. Mayor,
we have given two false pieces ...-- said one of them.

- You are
not bad parts you ... To jail!

- But, Mr. Mayor!

- A prison ...
garlic, to jail! - Roared Don Roque .-- And you as well.

Everyone down. Where the bugger is Patina?

Good heavens, what a fuss was assembled there in a minute!

The girls in the window had no choice but to go down, and Patina same,
all in shirt Roque admitted because no dilatory term.

Nothing was heard but groans and moans, and Above them the horrible voice of the mayor, repeating
incessantly:

- A prison ... garlic! A prison ... garlic!

The unhappy called by God and the Virgin that dejasen dress, but the
mayor, the face carried away by anger and bloodshot eyes, shouting
ever more strongly, stunned with his own voice:

- A prison ... garlic!.,
A prison ... garlic!

And there was no other choice. The watchman, who had come to hear the first garlic, conducted
in that provision to the municipal jail, with his dignified head, while neighbors, including
smiling and compassionate, watched the scene behind the glass your
windows.

Roque authority itself closed the door of the loft, and put the key 'continuing act' Marcones custody.
Then continued their march dangerous.

Space had not gone far when one of the narrowest streets and murky,
matched to see the bulk of a person who cautiously approached the
door of a house and was opening.

- Stop! - Roque whispered in the
ear of his subordinate .-- We have already encountered one of the
thieves.

The sheriff did not understand but the last word. It was enough to fell the gun was hands.

- Do not tremble, Marcones, which for now is only one - the mayor said taking her by the arm.

If the venerable Marcones sane at the time had their powers of observation, had noticed anything
in the hand of authority very definite tendency to convulsive movement.

The thief, he felt the footsteps of the patrol, turned his head with
a start and remained still with the pick in his hand.

Don Roque and Marcones also stood still.

The moon, work by filtering with a cloud, began to light that fateful scene.

- Phs, phs, friend - the mayor said after a while, without advancing a step.

Amical hear the thief this call by the authority and take flight,
it was all one.

- To him, Marcones!

Fire! - Roque shouted, turning to run hard in pursuit of the criminal.

Marcene

refused to obey the order of his boss, but it was not possible, the
hammer fell on the piston without popping the primer.

Then, with martial decision, threw the gun that it did not help anything,
pulled the sword from the sheath of leather and made a supreme effort
by meet the mayor, with reckless courage she had advanced at least
twenty steps the pursuit of the thief.

This had gone on a street corner.

But to get there could see his spine trying to win another.

Pum!

Don Roque fired his gun, shouting at the same time:

- Date, thief!

Turned away, turned to him upon arrival at Mercy Street.

Pum! Another shot of Mr. Roque.

- Date, thief!

But the outlaw, undoubtedly as a supreme source, and to prevent a
peaceful stop him, began to cry also:

- Thieves, thieves!

There was the shrill whistle and whistle of a prolonged calm, then another, then another ...

San Florencio street was well lit, and the criminal could be clearly
seen slipping with amazing speed searching in vain for the shadow
of the houses.

Pum, pum!

- Date, thief!

- Thieves! - Said the bandit while running.

Two watchmen were added to the column, and ran brandishing pikes beside the mayor.

The wanted criminal at any cost to win the New Rua order may be made
to the Dock and hide in a ship or jump into the water.

But before she tripped reach and gave his body on the floor.

Thanks to this accident earned him considerable Patrol distance walked
close to achieving.

But before this happens, the outlaw, rising with extreme alacrity, fled lighter than the wind.
Don Roque last two shots fired on his revolver, always yelling:

- Date, thief!
Disappeared at the corner of Rua Nueva. Lead her to the mayor and
his force near the square of the Navy, saw no trace of anything criminal.
Followed hesitant up to that post. They stopped not knowing what to
do.

- At the pier, the pier, there must be - a serene said.

And
they were about to undertake all the way, when you opened the balcony
of a crash house, a man appeared in his underwear, and heard these
words, which resonated deeply into the silence of the night:

- The
thief just walked into the cafe on the Marina!

He who uttered them
was Don Feliciano Gómez. The patrol, to listen, rushed to the cafe
door, and entered it noisily. The room was empty. Back in the bottom,
next to the counter, sailing three or four young men in a white apron
surrounding a man who was shot more than sitting on a chair. The mayor,
the sheriff, the calm fell over him, putting to heart the pikes, sword
and saber. And at a time they shouted:

- Date, thief!

The criminal
up to them his terrified face, paler than the wax.

- Oh, re ... if
Don Jaime, so help me God! - said a calm down the pike.

All the others
did the same, dumb with surprise. Because, in fact, the outlaw who
had persecuted to death, was none other than Marin caught red-handed,
when opening the your door.

We had to bring her shoulders, and bleed.
The next day, Mr. Roque was presented to apologize, and he got it