 A sad and unfortunate house, the house dark and gloomy, the house where
they never eat or drink! "But his departure was no return. By the afternoon so that they returned,
but was too late.

Treaty Room How Lazaro Went to a monk of the Merced, and what befell him

I had to get the room, and he was a monk of the Merced, which silly women who tell me headed, whom
they called him kin: great enemy of the choir and eating in the monastery, lost to go out,
lay amicísimo business and visit, so I think it broke he more shoes than the whole monastery. He
gave me the first shoes I broke in my life But you never lasted eight
days, and I was able to outlast his trot.

And because of this and other stuff I do not say, I left.

Fifth Treaty How Lazaro Went to a Pardoner, and the things that he spent

In the fifth by my good fortune gave, which was a Pardoner, the more brash and desvengonzado
and more caster indulgences that I ever saw or hope to see or do not think anyone saw, because
he and seeking ways and means and very crafty inventions.

In coming to a place where the bull had to submit, first presented
to the clergy or cure some things, not of much value or not: some
lettuce from Murcia, where were in season, a couple of limes or oranges,
peach, a couple of peaches, each path verdiniales pears.

ANSI tried them over because they promote their business and call his parishioners to take the
bull.

Provide him thank him, find out how well of reach. If they said they understood, spoke no Latin
word for they could not trip, but took advantage of a gentle and
well-cut desenvoltísima romance language.

And if he saw that these clerics were among the reverend say that they bought it with letters
and reverend is ordered, he turned into a St. Thomas and two hours talking in Latin, at least,
it seemed but it was not.

When they would not taking the bulls, looking for what might take them for evil, and to what
had discomfort to people and other times with crafty artifice. And because all you see would
make a long story, tell a very crafty and diverting, with which it
will prove its sufficiency.

Somewhere in the Sagra of Toledo had preached two or three days, doing his usual errands, and
had not taken bull, I could not see had any intention of taking. Was given swore up and wondering
what to do, he decided to call the people to another morning so he's bull.

And that night, after dinner, they stood to play the collation he and the constable, and the game
came to fight and have bad words. He called the constable a thief, and the other to him liar. On
this, Mr. Commissioner my lord took a pike in the door of the play
was.

The sheriff drew his sword in his side. Noise and voices and all we, guests and neighbors come
and métense in the middle, and procured them very angry rid of that half were to be killed. But as
people at all the noise the house was full of them, seeing that they could not use weapons, they
began to call injurious, including the sheriff said it was my master
forger and the bulls who preached were false.

Finally, that the people, not enough to see that putting it in peace, agreed to take the sheriff
of the inn and elsewhere.

And so my master was very angry, and after the guests and neighbors pleaded with him to forget about
it and go to sleep, he left. And so we lay all.

The next morning my master went to the church and told to ring for
mass and for fire sermon the bull.

And the people gathered, the muttering about the pardons, saying they were forgeries and that
the constable himself quarreling had discovered, so that after they had reluctantly of tomalla,
with that of all the hated.

The Lord went up to the pulpit and began his sermon, and encourage people to not remain without
the blessings and forgiveness as the holy bull brought. Being in the sermon, go by the church
door the sheriff and, after praying he got, got up and loudly and deliberate wisely began to
say:

"Good men, let me say a word, then listen to whoever you please." I came here this swindler
who preaches, who cheated and said that helped him in his business and to split the profits.
And now, seeing the damage it would do to my conscience and your
haciendas, regretting what was done, I clearly stated that the bulls
are preaching false and did not believe him nor toméis, and I'm not
direct or indirect part in them, and from agora leave the rod and
give her in the ground, and if some time it is punished for falsehood,
that ye be witnesses to me as I am not with him and I give this help,
you the truth and declare his wickedness.

"

And he finished his speech. Some honest men who were there wanted to raise and throw the constable
out of church, to avoid scandal.

But my master stopped them hand and ordered all under penalty of excommunication not in your
way, rather than let him say everything he wanted. And thus, he too was silent, while the
sheriff said everything I said.

As silent, my master asked if I wanted to say more, say it. The sheriff said:

"Fed is more to say about you and your dirty, but enough for now."

Mr. Commissioner knelt in the pulpit, and his hands and looked up to heaven said thus:

"Lord God, to Whom nothing is hidden and everything manifest, for
whom nothing is impossible, everything is possible, you know the truth
and how I have been accused unjustly.

In As for myself, I forgive you because you, Lord, forgive me. Do not look at anyone who does
not know what he says or does, but the injury done to Thee, I pray, I pray for justice and not
disregard it Because someone here, that thinking of taking this holy bull, giving credit the false words
of the man, they will not take. And it is so harmful to others, I beg you, Lord, do not disregard
it, but a miracle here, and it thus: if it is true what it says and
bring evil and falsehood, this pulpit to sink me and meta hundred
feet into the ground, where he and I ever be seen again.

And if it's true what I say, he, won over by the devil to remove
and deprive those who are present as great good, speaks evil, is also
known punished and all his malice.

"

He had hardly finished his prayer devout sir, when the black sheriff of the state falls and gives such
a blow on the ground that resounded throughout the church, and began to howl and throw foaming at
the mouth and twist it and make grimaces with the gesture, kicking and hand, rolling around
on the floor and another part. The shouts and cries of the people was so great that could not
hear each other. Some were really terrified. Some said

"The worth God help him."

Others:

"It serves him right, it stirred up such false testimony."

Finally, some who were there, and in my opinion not really afraid,
they came and locked him arms, with which he'd been thrashing those
who were near him.

Others rushed by the legs and had a hard time because there was no mule in the world so hard
Pulling kick.

And so I had a great time, because more than fifteen men were upon him, and hit them all, and if
neglected, in their noses.

By the way, my master was in the pulpit on his knees, hands and eyes
in the sky, carried in the divine essence, that the plant and noise
and voices in the church had no part in apartalle of divine contemplation.

Those good men went to him and woke him up crying and begged him aid the poor man was dying, and
not to look at things past nor to his bad, because as them had to pay, but if anything could take
that man out of danger passion and suffering, for God's sake do so, because it was obvious the
guilt of the guilty and his truth and goodness, as to your request and vengeance, the Lord did not
prolong the punishment.

Mr. Commissioner, as if waking from a sweet dream, looked and looked at the offender and all
those who were her surrounding, and very slowly he said:

"Good men, you do habíades to pray for a man in whom God has so signally noted, but as he commands
us not to return evil for evil and forgive injuries, with confidence we beg you to do what he commands
us, and His Majesty forgive it offended you by putting obstacles in their holy faith. Let's
all suplicalle. "

And so it came down the pulpit and instructed to devoutly beseeching our Lord had for good
to forgive the sinner, and get back on their health and sanity, and releasing the devil, if His
Majesty had allowed for his great sin he entered.

They all got down knees, and before the altar with the clergy began to softly chant a litany.
And coming him with the cross and holy water, having sung about him, my master, put their hands
to heaven and eyes that seemed almost nothing but a little white, begins a sentence no less
long than devout, with which he mourn all the people as often Hazer
in the sermons of Passion, a preacher and devoted audience, pleading
with our Lord, it was not the death of the sinner, but his life and
repentance, that he aimed persuaded by the devil and death and sin,
he wanted to forgive and give life and health to repent and confess
their sins.

And this fact, he ordered the bull and putting it on the head, and then the sinner of a constable
gradually began to get better and turn itself. And when he was back in his, and fell at the
foot of the Commissioner and demandóle forgiveness, and admitted that the mouth that and command
of the devil, an injury done to him anger and revenge, the other, more primary because the devil
would really be hurt the good that could be made to take the bull. Mr. My master forgave him,
and friendships were made between them, and take the bull was so haste, almost a living soul
in the place was not without it: husbands and wives, sons and daughters boys and girls.

Divulgóse the news of what happened in the neighboring towns, and when we got to them, did not give
a sermon or go to church, came to the inn to take like pears to make
themselves freely.

So in ten or twelve more of those alderredor Wherever we went, my master threw a good thousand
indulgences without preaching a sermon.

When he did the test, I confess my sin that I was also shocked and thought dello ANSI was, like
many others, but after seeing the laughter and fun that my master and the officer had and doing
business, it had all been met by the industrious and inventive my
master.

{Acaeciónos elsewhere, which I will not name in his honor, the following, and my master was
two or three sermons preached and God do the bull took. Seen by the Case my master what had happened
and that, although he said were wary of a year, and were not taking advantage as rebels take
it and that his work was lost, he rang the bells to say goodbye. And made his sermon and fired
from the pulpit, and we wanted down, called the clerk and me, who was charged with a wallet,
and Hizon reach the first step, and took the sheriff the hands that
had and had not in the bags, put them near his feet, and it became
a place in the pulpit with a happy face and throw from there, tens
and twenties in twenty of his bulls to all parties, saying:

"My brethren,
take, take of the graces God sends you to your homes, and do not hurts,
it is so pious work the redemption of Christian captives which are
land Moors.

Because they do not renege on our holy faith and go to the pains of hell, even Help them with
your charity and five paternosters and five Hail Marys, to come out of captivity. And yet also
take advantage for the parents and brothers and relatives you have in Purgatory, as you will see in this
holy bull. "

As the people saw them throw ANSI as something that was for nothing and be coming from the hand
of God, they took more take, even for children from the cradle and all its defunct, having
from children to the lowliest servant, counting on their fingers. Vimon in such haste, as I
aínas I'd just break a poor old coat he had, so that VM certify that in little more than an
hour was no bull in the panniers, and it was necessary go to the inn for more.

Finished taking all my master said from the pulpit to his clerk and
the council that rise and, to be known who were the ones to enjoy
the holy indulgences and pardons of the holy bull, and that he give
a good account of who had sent him, were written.

And then they all very willingly said they had taken, having ordered
the children and servants and the deceased.

Made his inventory, he asked the mayors to charity, because he had to do elsewhere, ordered the
clerk to give him authority to inventory and memory of those who were there, which he said the clerk,
were more than two thousand.

Done this, he was dismissed with much peace and love, and so they patros us of this place, and even
before that we left, he was asked by the curate and the aldermen if Bull profit the infants who were in
the womb, to which he replied that according to letters he had studied not, they might have to
ask doctors older than him, and that this was what I felt about this business.

ANSI E we departed, leaving all very happy with the good business. My master said to the bailiff
and clerk:

"What do you think, as these villains, that just say" old Christians are "without charities, think
to be saved without compromising any of their holdings? Well, for the life of graduate Pascasio
Gómez, which expense they'll more than ten captives. "

And thus we went to another place at that end of Toledo, to the Channel, said, where others
encounter's overwhelming to take bulls. Made my master and the others who were going our proceedings,
two parties that were there had not been thrown thirty bulls.

Seen by my master the great destruction and the great expense he
had, (and) the crafty ardideza my master had to make spent with his
bulls, was that this day DIJA high mass, and after finishing the sermon
and returned to the altar, took a cross that brought a little more
than an inch, and a brazier of fire above the altar they had, which
had brought to warm his hands because it was great cold, put him behind
the missal without anyone looking into this and there without saying
anything he put the cross above the fire.

And, because the Mass was over and tossed the blessing, he took it
with a handkerchief, tightly wrapped the cross in his right hand and
the other the bull, and so they got to the season step of the altar,
where he was kissing the cross, and beckoned them to come to worship
the cross.

And thus came the first mayor and the elders of the place, coming one to one as used. The first
that came, it was a old mayor, although he gave kiss rather delicate cross is burned their faces
and quickly took off. Seeing this my master said to him:

"Step, I am, Mr. Mayor! Miracle!"

And thus another seven or eight, and they all said:

"Step, gentlemen! Miracle!"

When he saw that the rostriquemados enough to witness the miracle,
did not want to give more to kiss.

Climbed up to the altar and said wonderful things there, saying that the low charity that
was in them had God allowed this miracle and that cross was to be taken to the holy church
of his diocese, that the little charity that the people had, the cross burning. I was so fast
that there was in taking the bull, not enough two notaries neither the clerics nor sacristanes writing.
I think certainly that took more than three thousand bulls, as I have said to VM then to leave,
he went with great reverence, as a reason, to take the Holy Cross, saying he had to do engastonar
in gold, as was fitting. He was begged much of the council and clergy of the place to leave
that holy cross there in memory of the miracle occurred there.

He in no way wanted to do and finally begged by many, was left; with
another cross that gave old woman who had old money, which can weigh
two or three pounds, they said.

And thus we departed happy with the good exchange and have negotiated
well.

In all he saw no one above except me, because I climbed the altar
to see if anything had been blisters, for putting it into recovery,
as usual I was his custom.

And there saw me, he began his finger in his mouth signaling me to shut up. I long did it because
I met, but, after I saw the miracle could not pour it out in me,
but fear of my astute master did not let me communicate with anyone,
and never left me, because I swore not discovered the miracle.

And thus I did until now}. And while a young boy, much cayóme in grace, and I said to myself:

"WITH
THESE many must these mockers on innocent people!"

Finally, I was with my fifth master about four months, which also passed {sufficient hardships,
but I was well fed at the expense of priests and other clergy would
do to preach.}

Sixth Treaty How Lazaro Went to a chaplain, and what
happened to him

Then I began, I settled with a painting master Molella
tambourines for the colors, and also I had a thousand evils.

Already at this time a good little boy, coming a day in the great church, a chaplain I got by
him, and set me on to a donkey and four pitchers and a whip, and
I began to water by the cibdad.

This was the first step I got to come to achieve good life because my mouth was measured. Given
each day to my master thirty coppers earned, and Saturday was up
to me, and everything else during the week, thirty coppers.

FUEM so well in the job that after four years I used it, to bring in profit safe place, saved
for me very honestly wear old clothes, which bought a doublet of fustian old and frayed coat with braid
on the sleeves and gate, and a cape that had been velvety, and an
old sword first de Cuellar.

Soon as he saw me dressed as a gentleman, I told my master to take his donkey, he did not want
more follow that profession.

Seventh Treaty How Lazaro Went to a sheriff, and what befell him

Dismissed the chaplain, I settled for a man of justice with a sheriff, but very short lived
with it, because it seems dangerous calling, mostly, that night we ran to me and my love with
stones and sticks a withdrawn, and my master, who waited, treated badly, but I do not hit. This
renounced the deal.

And thinking about how to live my seat would have rest and win something for old age God lit
up and get on track and profitable way, and with the help of some
friends and gentlemen, all my toil and hardships up to that time were
paid to achieve what I sought, it was a real job, seeing that no one
who prospers except those who have; in which I live today and I live
to serve God and your grace.

And it is that I have charge of pitching the wine sold in this city, and in auctions and lost,
accompanying those who suffer persecution for justice and loudly
declare their crimes: preacher, speaking in plain {, in which office
a day hanging a pickpocket in Toledo and had a good rope of straw,
I met and I realized that the sentence my blind love Escalona had
said, and regretted the poor payment I gave him so much who taught
me that, after God, he gave me to reach the state industry that now
this.}

Hame happened so well, I've used so easily, that almost all
things regarding trade go through my hand while across the city that
out wine to sell or something, if Lázaro de Tormes does not understand
it, it is of no benefit.

At this time, seeing my ability and good living, taking picture of me Mr. archpriest Sant Salvador,
my lord, servant and friend of your worship, because it proclaimed its wines wanted me to marry
her maid, and seen for myself that this person could not come but right and advantage, I resolved
to do.

And so I married her, and I've never regretted, because, besides being a good daughter and diligent,
helpful, I have in my master acipreste all favor and support. And always in the year sometimes
given in the bottom of a cargo of wheat, for the holy flesh, and when the pair of fine wheaten
loaves, leaving the old hose, and Hizon rent a house next to hers. Sunday and parties almost
always eat at home. But evil tongues, who does not miss shortage, do not let us live, saying
I do not know why, and I know why, that my wife veen go and make
bed and cooking for him.

And God help them better they are true; {although in this I've always had some time and had taken
some bad sospechuela dinners esperalla some Morning and evening until further, and I came to
my mind what I love the blind Escalona said horn being seized, even though he always think
that the devil me it brings back memories for me malcasado, and did
not take advantage} because, if not beyond it WITH THESE pay woman
teasing, my lord has promised me that I will comply.

He me talked a long day ahead of her, and said:

"Lázaro de Tormes, anyone who pays attention to such bad language,
never get ahead.

I say this because I'm not surprised if someone looking into my house to your wife and out
of here. She gets very your honor and hers, and this I promise. Therefore, do not look at
what they can say, but what you get, say to your advantage. "

"Sir," I said, I've decided to side of good. It is true that some of my friends deso have told
me something, and yet, for more than three times I have certified that before with me married,
had given birth three times, speaking with reverence of VM, because she is ahead. "

Then my wife took oaths on so much that I thought the house was caved in on us, and then volumes
to mourn and heaping curses upon those who had married with me, in that So I would be dead before
I let those words hobiera mouth. But with me on one side and my lord on the other, so we told him
and grant that stopped her crying, with oath that he never did it as I lived all of that, and I
rejoiced and there were good that she go in and out, night and day,
because I was so sure goodness.

And so we were all three in complete agreement.

Until today, nobody has ever heard us about the affair before, when some feel that means anything
of it, I cut them off and say:

"Look, if you are a friend, do not
tell me of things I regret, that I have for my friend who I Despite
it, mostly if I want to make trouble with my wife, which is the thing
in the world I I love most, and I love her more than me. And God gives
me all sorts of favors her more than I deserve; I'll swear to God
that she's as good a woman as living inside the gates of Toledo. Who
tells me otherwise, I'll kill him. "

So no one says anything to me,
and I have peace in my house.

This was the same year that our victorious
emperor in this great city of Toledo entered and held his court, and
there was great rejoicing, as you must have heard