 

In view of what is happening and you are telling, not a few people accuse you of leftover pessimistic
and painting with the darkest colors immorality and vices of the high society to which it
belongs.

What is I am far to see you so bad intention.

And I do not understand it either bad result, although the intention is good.

The truth is, though very sad truth that the noblest and the purest virtues moral excellence, can
not give clear evidence of itself is neither good nor manifest glow, if the vices, sins and evils
are not the occasion or cause for it. Virtue, let us say well, it's like a cocoon that would never
be perfect flower calyx opening, unfolding petals and perfume the air with their aroma, if vice
inadvertently and contradiction not intervene in the matter. Would it have been martyrs if there
had been ruthless and ferocious tyrants who put themselves in the alternative to deny his
God and to worship idols or be devoured by wild beasts, flayed or burned alive or subject to
other exquisite very cruel torture? Without barbarous and uncivilized nations that subjugate
and tame, not despotism to break down, without injustice to punish
and freedoms lossless re-acquire courage and military valor, how lucky
could manifest itself?

I infer from this that all the mischief of Miss Eulalia and its duplicity
and lies were indispensable, for the honor, honesty, candor and innocence
of Ignatius appeared enhancement, as a bright and full of beauty on
the dark background of the picture.

The effort that has the Duchess to seduce Ignacio and elegant and convoluted means of is worth
to get it, I think so well brought as beautifully described, and should not scare people more prudish.
Representation and narration by circumstances are and despite all the truth and vividness
with which paint should not be taken as immoral. The sacred and profane stories are full of similar
cases. Without the wife of Potiphar light had never shone with their own, or have achieved
everlasting glory of chastity Joseph, son of Jacob. If the princess or queen Briolanja not
have done so many crazy and been so outrageous Amadis heart attacks, how he had proved his
fidelity Mrs. Oriana admirable or how he would have made worthy to
carry out the adventure Firm Island, with mirror, North and True Lovers
Guide?

People running around in confusion, censoring of very vicious and about truth, let me how familiar
the word, the scene where the Duchess tries to seduce Ignacio. But how censor such thing, when the
Year Cristiano contains quite a few scenes far more raw? San Vicente Ferrer, for instance,
was rushed twice Very beautiful ladies love him, which brought disappointment and they were
playing tablets, despite the efforts made, and delivered to the very demons, his staff and guides
efforts as wanton and lascivious. And note that these ladies pledged to San Vicente, broke thousand
times more against the holy Ignacio broke against the Duchess. Suffice it to recall that a
San Vicente once when he returned to his cell, was found tucked in
bed at the pretty lady you intended.

With no less depravity was chased San José de Calasanz founder of the Pious Schools with the
aggravating circumstance of deliberate and persistent breach of trust
occurred in the persecutor, daughter of confession of Venerable Servant
of God who came to inquire about the sham and finer scruples of conscience.

St.

Thomas Aquinas, the Angel of the School, had to fight the unholy love less brave and frightening
battles.

One day he was so haunted by a beautiful woman who clung in his arms, which had be rejected and
then pushed to dispel the chase with a lighted stick. Finally, a reward for such an important
victory, two angels came down from heaven and confined themselves to saint's miraculous virginal
girdle of purity, which, though it hurt a lot when girded it, was,
as it were sure to fire up