 

I'm young, time has not passed, I have before me the main events of my youth; shaking hands
with old friends, in my mind was playing terrible sweet emotions of youth, burning of triumph,
despite the defeat, the great joys and large penalties, associated in the memories as they are
in life. On all my feelings one dominates, which always led my actions during this eventful period 1805
and 1834. Near the tomb, and considered the most useless of men, still do tears to my eyes, holy
love of the fatherland! Instead I I can still consecrate a word mean cursing the skeptic who
denies you, and you corrupted confused philosopher with the interests of one day.

In this sense devoted my manhood and he consecrate this slaughter
of my last years, putting by tutelary genius or guardian angel of
my life writing, and it was my life real.

I will tell you many things. Trafalgar, Bailen, Madrid, Zaragoza, Gerona, Arapiles! ... From all this
say something, if you lack patience. My story is not as beautiful as should, but will do my
best to be true.

-II-

In one of the first days of October of that fateful year (1805), my noble master called me his
room and looking at me with his usual severity (quality only apparent, as his character was very
soft), I said:

"Gabriel, are you a man of courage?"

I did not know at first what to answer, because, really, in my fourteen years of life not habíapresentado
I still amazing opportunity to [1] world with no heroic deed, but
the [2] hear me call me so proud, and seems both unseemly deny my
value to any person who had so greatly, I replied with childish arrogance

"Yes,
my lord, I am a man of value."

Then that distinguished man, who had shed their blood in a hundred battles glorious, without
that for this disdain to deal confidently to his loyal servant, he smiled at me, led me motioned
me to sit, and was about to put my knowledge in any important decision when loves his wife and
Doña Francisca suddenly came into the office to give greater attention
to the conference, and began to speak extravagantly in these terms:

-
No, not going ... I certainly will not go to the top.

For not so! ... At your age and when you're out of service for old! ... Oh, Alonsito, you've
come to the seventies and you're not for parties!

I think I am still seeing that as angry respectable lady with her large bonnet, her organdy skirt,
her white curls and hairy mole on the side of the beard. I cite these four heterogeneous details,
because without them it can not represent my memory. She was beautiful in old age, such as
Santa Ana de Murillo, and her beauty would have been perfectly respectable, and comparison with
the mother of the Virgin accurate, if my lady had been silent like a painting.

D. Alonso, somewhat unnerved, as usual, whenever I heard, replied:

"I need to go, Paquita.

According to a letter just received from the good Churruca, the squad be combined, or leave
Cádiz leading the fight with the English, or wait in the Bay, if they dare to enter. Anyway,
the thing will be sounded. "

- Well, I'm glad, "said Dona Francisca -. There are Gravina, Valdés, Cisneros, Churruca Alcalá
Galiano and Alava. That grind hard on those English dogs. But you are made an old thing, not
to serve God damn thing.

Still can not move arm dislocated left you at Cape San Vicente.

My master moved his left arm with a gesture scholar and warrior, to prove that he had expeditious.
But Dona Francisca, unconvinced with flimsy argument, he continued screaming in these terms:

"No,
not go to the top, because there is no need for fright as you. If you had forty years, as when
you went to Tierra del Fuego and brought me these 'green collars Indian ... But now ... Because
I know that you Marcial calzonazos warmed helmets last night and
this morning, speaking to battle.

I think that Mr. Marcial and I have to fight ... Turn it to the boat if you will, for the taking of
his leg that is ... Oh, San Jose blessed! If I had known my fifteen it was seafarers ... What
a pain! Ni a day of rest!

He married one to live with her husband, and maybe a dispatch from Madrid comes in two Palotada
send it to me I do not know where, to Patagonia, Japan or hell. Is a ten or twelve months without
seeing him, and finally, if you eat wild gentlemen, again made a misery, so sick and yellow
do not know a what to do to return to their natural color ... But
it does not fit old bird cage, and suddenly comes another little office
in Madrid ... You go at Toulon, Brest, to Naples, here or yonder,
where he wants to bribonazo the First Consul ... Ah, if everyone did
what I say, how soon would pay all together this gentleman so upset
that brings the world!

"

My master smiled a bad picture tacked to the wall, and, awkwardly lit unknown artist, depicting
the Emperor Napoleon, riding on a green horse, with the famous redingote smeared with vermilion.
No doubt the impression left on me that work of art that I saw for four years, was due to
amend my thoughts on the suit Smuggler's great man, and I shall henceforth
represent Cardinal Dress and riding a green horse.

"This is not living - Dona Francisca continued waving his arms -. God forgive me, but I hate sea,
but say it is one of his best works. I do not know what it is for the Holy Inquisition If ash
does not make these deviled warships! But come here and tell me: Why what is it to sit throwing
bullets and more bullets, without more, placed on four tables that if they break, into the sea
hundreds of unhappy? Is it not tempting God? Y these men go crazy when they hear a gunshot!
Pretty funny! To me shake me meats when I hear, and if everyone thought like me, there would
be no wars at sea ... and all the guns would become bells. Look, Alonso - said stopping in
front of his husband - and I think I have beaten several times.

Do you want another? You and those other as crazy as you, are you not satisfied after the 14
[3]

D. Alonso clenched his fists when he heard the sad memory, and did not utter an oath of marine
respect for his wife.

"The guilt of your stubbornness to go to the top - the lady added more and more angry - the Marcial
has the rogue, the devil sailor who had drowned a hundred times, a hundred sometimes been saved
to torment me. If he wants to return to sea with his wooden leg, his arm broken, his eye minus
his fifty wounds, to be in good time, and God willing Apparently not here again ... but you
do not go, Alonso, you're not because you're sick and it has served well the King, who incidentally
has rewarded you very badly, and me you, you throw in the face Mr.
Generalissimo of the land and sea captain gallons you have ten years
... A faith that Admiral should have made you at least that You deserved
tired when you went to the issue of Africa and brought me those blue
beads that, with the collars of the Indians allowed me to decorate.

-
Whether or not Admiral, I must go to the top, Paquita - "my love -.

I can not miss to that fight. I have to charge to the English some delinquent account.

- Well are you to collect these accounts - "my love -: a sick man and half crippled ...

- Gabriel go with me - said D. Alonso, looking in a way that instilled value.

I made a gesture indicating my agreement with such heroic project,
but took care of that Francisca saw me, which I have drawn attention
to the overwhelming weight of your hand if you observe my warlike
provisions.

This, when her husband seemed resolved, more furious, vowed that if re-birth not marry any marine
pests thousand Emperor said, our beloved King, Prince Peace, of all
the signatories of the treaty of subsidies, and concluded by assuring
the brave ocean that God would punish him for his foolish recklessness.

During

the dialogue we have referred, without answering for their accuracy, they only found me in vague
memories, a strong and barking cough, ringing in the next room, announced that Martial the giddy
old, heard from the fiery declamation near my mistress, who had cited several times with little
feedback benevolent. Eager to take part in the conversation, for which authorized him the
confidence he had in the house, opened the door and introduced himself in my master bathroom.

Before
going further, I want to give it some news, as well as his noble
consort for better understanding of what will happen.

-III-

D. Alonso
Gutiérrez de Cisniega belonged to an ancient family of the same Vejer.

Consagráronle a naval career, and since his youth, being a midshipman, he distinguished himself
honorably in the English attack directed against Havana in 1748.

He was part of the expedition which left Cartagena against Algiers
in 1775, and is also found in the attack of Gibraltar the Duke de
Crillon in 1782.

Later embarked for the expedition to the Strait of Magellan corvette in Santa Maria de la Cabeza,
who commanded Don Antonio de Cordova, also found in the glorious battles he held the Anglo-Spanish
against the French front Toulon in 1793, and finally ended his glorious career in the disastrous
encounter Cape St. Vincent, commanding the Mexican vessel, one who had to surrender.

Since then, my master, who had risen in line with their work and long career, retired from service.
As a result of wounds received on that sad day, fell sick body, and hardest of the soul, despite
the consequence of defeat. Curábale his wife with love, though not without shouting, cursing
for the navy and the sailors was in his mouth as usual as the sweet
names of Jesus and Mary on the lips of a devotee.

Francisca was a great lady, exemplary, of noble origin, devout and God-fearing as all the females
of that time, charitable and unobtrusive, but with the most vicious and demonic genius I ever
met in my life.

Frankly, I do not feel as angry that innate temperament, but rather created by the troubles that
led to the unsavory profession her husband, and it must be confessed that he did not complain without
reason, for this marriage, which for fifty years could have twenty children to the world and
God, had to content with only one: the charming and peerless Rosita, who will speak later. For
these and other reasons, Doña Francisca asked to heaven in his daily prayers the annihilation
of all European squads.

Meanwhile, the hero was consumed in Vejer watching sadly moth-eaten and gnawed his laurels
of, and pondered and pondered all the time on an important topic,
namely, that if Cordova our squadron commander, had sent luff to port
instead of ordering the move to starboard, the vessels Mexican, San
Jose, San Nicolas and San Isidro have not fallen into the hands of
the English and the English admiral Jerwis would have been defeated.

His wife, Marcial, until I myself, exceeding my powers, we said that the thing had no doubt,
to see if giving us believe it tempered the ardor of their hobby alive, but neither of those:
his hobby accompanied him to the grave.

Eight years after that disaster, and the news that the combined fleets would to have a decisive
encounter with the English, produced in him a certain excitement that seemed rejuvenate. He,
therefore, in the flower of which was to go to the square to witness the undoubted defeat their
mortal enemies, and even though his wife tried to dissuade him, as
I said, could not divert him from such bizarre purpose.

To understand how passionate was his desire, suffice it to say that dared to oppose, while
avoiding any dispute, the firm will of, and I must warn, that will have an idea of ??the stubbornness
of my master, that he had no fear of the British or the French or the Algerians, or the wild Strait
Magellan, or the sea upset, or to aquatic monsters, or the noisy storm or the sky or the earth
was not afraid of anything created by God, rather than his holy women.

Réstame now to the sailor, the object of hatred more alive by Doña Francisca, but loving and
loved by my love brotherly D. Alonso, who had served.

Marcial (I never knew his last name), known among sailors Middle-man, had been boatswain in ships
of war for forty years.

At the time of my story, the look of this hero of the seas was most unusual that you can imagine.
Go figure you, gentlemen, an old man, rather tall than short, with
a wooden leg, left arm cut about below the elbow, an eye less, face
a multitude of chirlos scrawled in all directions and disorder traced
by enemy weapons of different kinds, with dark complexion and tanned
like all old sailors, with a hoarse voice, hollow and lazy not resembled
the sound of any inhabitant of the mainland, and may form an idea
of ??this character whose memory makes me deplore the dryness of my
palette, because faith that deserves to be painted by a skilled portraitist.

I can not say whether laugh or appearance commanded respect, I believe that both at the same time, and
depending on how you look at him.

It can be said that his life was the story of the Spanish Navy in the latter part of the past
and present principles, history in the pages of the glorious alternate actions with unfortunate
miseries. Marcial had sailed in the Conde de Regla, in the San Joaquin in the Real Carlos, in
Trinidad, and other heroic and unfortunate vessels apparently defeated with honor and treachery
destroyed, plunged to their old boards the power Spain's naval.

In addition to campaigns he took part with my master, the Middle-man had attended many others
such as the expedition to Martinique, the action of Finisterre and
before the terrible event Strait, on the night of July 12, 1801, and
the battle of Cape Santa Maria, October 5, 1804.

At the age of sixty-six years, retired from service, but not for lack of spirit, but because
and was completely dismasted and out of combat. He and my master was in earth two good friends,
and as the only daughter should find Boatswain's married to a former servant house, resulting
from this union a grandson, Middle-man decided to take forever anchor,
as an old pontoon useless for war, and even got to the illusion he
liked the peace.

See enough to understand that employment could be more difficult than to that other glory of a hero
was to take care of kids, and in fact did Marcial other than loading, distraction and sleep on
his grandson, whose task it was enough for her songs seasoned sailor with an oath, the trade
itself.

But knowing that the combined fleets prepared himself for a big fight, he felt reborn dampened
enthusiasm his chest, and dreamed that he was sending the crew on the quarterdeck bow of the
Holy Trinity. As in D. noticing Alonso same symptoms flare was crossed with him, and since
then spent most of the day and night communicating, news well received as their own feelings,
talking past events, making conjectures about the future and daydreaming, and two apprentices
in intimate confidence calculate how to reach admirals.

In this trap, bringing alarmed Dona Francisca, was born the project
to embark in the square to witness the next fight.

You know the opinion of my loves thousand naughty trickster said the sailor, and know that
D. Alonso insisted on putting running so bold thinking, accompanied by his page, and now remains
for me to relate what all said when Martial was presented to defend the war against the shameful
status quo Dona Francisca.

-IV-

"Mr. Marcial - said it with redoubled fury: - if you want to go to the top to give the last hand,
you can board at any time, but what this does not go away.

- Well - said the sailor, who had sat on the edge of a chair, holding only space to hold -: I
will go alone. The devil take me, if I run out throw the telescope at the party. "

Then he added with an expression of joy:

"We have fifteen ships,
and ships twenty-five Frenchies.

If they were all ours, not much needed ... Forty vessels and shipped a lot of heart! "

As reported the fire of a wick to one that is near and the excitement that radiated Marcial
eye lit the two, and cushioned by age, my good master.

"But Miss - continued Middle-man - bring a lot too.

So I like to me the functions: sending lots of wood where bullets and gunpowder Jumo much
hot air in cold weather. "

I forgot to say that Marcial, like most sailors, he used a vocabulary
of terminachos by more pilgrims, as is customary in seafarers of all
countries deface the home language to turn into a caricature.

Noting the majority of voices used by sailors, you see that are simply corruptions of the words common
suited to his temperament caught and energetic, always prone to short
all life functions, especially language.

Hearing them speak, it seemed at times the tongue is an organ in their way.

Marcial, as I say, became the names into verbs, and these household names, without consulting
the Academy. Also applied the vocabulary of sailing to all acts of life, assimilating the
ship with the man, under a forced analogy between the parties that and members thereof. For example,
talking about the loss of his eye, said it had closed the starboard gangway, and to express the
broken arm, said it had run out the port lookout.

For him the heart, the residence of courage and heroism, was the storeroom of gunpowder, as
well as the storeroom of viscocho stomach. At least they understood these words sailors, but
there were other daughters of his own invention philological, it only known and throughout its
value appreciated. Who would understand what they meant patigurbiar, chingurria and other vicious
names for the same kind? I believe, although I assure you, that meant first doubt, and the second
sorrow. The action of drunk called it a thousand different ways, and among these, the most
common was put on the jacket, idiom whose meaning will not find my readers if not explain that,
having earned the English sailors casacones dictation without doubt because of his uniform, saying
drunk put his coat on, he meant Marcial ordinary action of his enemies. A foreign admirals called them
with quirky names, and created by him and translated his own way, noting similarities sound. A Señorito
Nelson called him, a voice that showed some consideration or respect; Uncle Collingwood Cramp, a phrase
that seemed to him exact translation of English to Jerwis named him as the English themselves, that
is, old fox Calder Perol uncle, because he found little relation between the two voices, and
following an entirely different language system, appointed to Villeneuve, head of the combined
fleets, with the nickname Monsieur Cornet, name taken from a farce whose representation Marcial attended
in Cadiz. In short, these were the nonsense that came from his mouth, I'll be forced to avoid annoying
explanations, to replace their usual phrases when referring to conversations he recalls.

Let us now. Dona Francisca, crossing himself, and said:

"Forty ships! It is tempting to Divine Providence.