 Only
the part of retrochoir, looking to the west, the left penetrate pierced rosettes some clarity
melancholy .....--¡ religious do not know what sadness filled my heart!

There, in the distance, I spotted the dying light of a lamp that burned behind the main altar
was .-- Chapel of Healing, where lies the body of Ms Urraca of Castile,
as the grave lay his statue.

Sexton said that when in 1828 Fernando VII and Queen Amalia, his wife, returning from the Basque provinces,
wanted to see and did discover the remains of the illustrious daughter
Alfonso VI of Castile, and then went to admire the extraordinary length
of the skeleton .-- Nothing less than nine spans tall must have had
the unfortunate wife of the Warrior!

Then I went down to the famous Cueva de San Antolin or San Antonio, patron saint of the city,
sanctuary underground mystique serves as base to the great temple that is over: I admired then,
almost to grope, I mean by the light of both phosphorus (as the cathedral was left in the dark
and the sexton had gone out and lost the candle inside the crypt), the magnificent stalls Choir,
the gates and the pulpit, I fought to roughly the same clerk, committed when we returned to
lower, with a lantern, to this underground, which seems to be his right eye I argued, as was
true and positive, he was hungry, the clock marched relentlessly Diligence and went on his
way to nine o'clock, and I could finally leave the church and take
the road from the inn, almost suspicious that my guide for black socks
are I have been glad to stay for life doing penance in the Cueva de
San Antolin .....

Walking the streets lit and I observed that in
Palencia are women much more beautiful than in other towns of Castile.

V

Nothing I can say from eighteen to twenty miles there from Palencia
to Alar - were spent sleeping.

What are today, then, for me those lands that ran through my body, my soul while traveling on the
other hand, perhaps by the Alcarria, perhaps for Andalusia? What is life for an old; what our struggles
are political or philosophical disputes, eg, for pastors Sierra de Gredos, what must be, for example,
to my friends the nuns Ocaña the death of Lord Byron !.....--¡ Damn the thing!

Ten hours was arrested in Alar del Rey, store wheat and flour used for the movement by the Canal
de Castilla and a railway station to Santander will over time, but now only goes to Reinosa .....

At
four in the afternoon he is finally a train to this point .....--
The train consisted of three or four cars, occupied by ten or twelve
people .....

It seemed that a shadow of rail ..... But I rejoice
in the soul to do those nine leagues so lonely and comfortably, running
from one window to another to admire superb mountain landscapes, which
were mistaken for trees, rocks, weeds, viaducts, lawns, cottages,
tunnels, dumps, forests, streams, bridges ..... All the charms of
nature and civilization!
