 He felt immense pain, as if his whole
body had lost the shelter of the wrapper, leaving the meat exposed to air alive.

Wanted to follow his path, but on his head rose the coast forming a concave wall é unapproachable.
Unable to get out. Was saved from the sea, to die face sandwich to him. His body would not float
to a beach inhabited. The only ones who were going to meet his death crabs were huge boulders
traced the search for food in the surf, the seagulls that dropped vertically, with wings outstretched,
from the top of the cliff. Even small crustaceans were superior to him.

He felt at once all its weaknesses, all his misery, while the blood still staining purple the tiny
lakes of the rocks. When you close your eyes to die in the dark saw a pale face, hands that
wove subtle lace, and before night fell definitely on her eyelids, bleating child murmured:

- Mom! ... Mom! ...

Three months later, on arriving at Barcelona, ??he found his mother as he had seen during His agony
in the Portuguese coast ... Some fishermen picked him up when his life was going to die. During
his stay in the hospital wrote several times to Dona Cristina with
a cheerful tone and confident, claiming important occupations in Lisbon.

At

his entrance, the good lady left her eternal work of lace, pale, hands trembling and glassy eyes. Should
know the whole truth, and if you do not know, is the instinct warned Ulysses seeing mother ailing,
emaciated, vacillating between arrogance and brokenness physical, as well as the brave as they left
the torture chamber.

- Oh, my son ... Long! ...

It was time for adventure ended his anger, his mad desire to tempt the impossible, braving
hazards rather absurd. If I wanted to be a sailor, could be, but respectable vessels, the
service of a great company, following a certain career ladders, not rolling capriciously by
all the seas, mixing with international banditry offered ports to
enhance the crew.

Best of all would be still in home. What happiness if you stay next to your mother! ...

And Odysseus, to the astonishment of Dona Cristina, took that decision. The good lady was not
alone. A niece lived with her, as if her daughter. The sailor had to dig in depths of his memory
to remember a little girl of four years who was to crawl through
the beach in the village of his mother while he, with a severity of
man, having heard the old Secretary of the Municipality of bygone
glories of the Catalan sea.

She was the daughter of a Blanes - the only poor family - who commanded the ships of their
relatives and died of yellow fever by Central American port. Ferragut could not explained how the
creature reptile sand, with an eternal green pearl hanging from their noses, was that very young
slender, pale-brown rice, which held its massive hair similar to an ebony hull with two smaller
spirals to the ears.

Her eyes seemed to be changing sea inks: black a few hours, others blue, green and deep when
reflected sunlight like a golden point.

He was attracted by its simplicity, by the grace of his words and shy smiles. It was something
of irresistible new this ruedamundo that had known only of laughter
coppery bestial, Asian yellow cat or gestures of the great European
ports, to the first words ask to drink and sing about the knees of
the host, putting his cap as a testimony of love.

Tape - this was his name - seemed to know all his life. He had been the subject of their conversations
Dona Cristina when both entertained the monotonous hours knitting lace the use of people. Ulysses
passing to her room, saw his portraits of the time was simply added
to board an ocean liner.

Stolen tape had undoubtedly the rooms of her aunt. I admired that first adventure since long
before meeting him.

One afternoon, he told the sailor to the two women how he had saved
on the coast of Portugal.

The mother heard him turning his eyes, trembling hands to move the bobbin of lace. Suddenly we
heard a scream. Tape was, I could not listen anymore. And Ulysses thanked his tears, their cries
seizure, his eyes wide with an expression of terror.

Ferragut's mother worried about the future of this poor niece. His only salvation was marriage,
and the good lady had set his sights on a relative who went beyond forty, requiring the input
of these youth to refresh your bachelor life mature. It was the wisest of the family. Cristina admired
him because he could not read without the aid of glasses and drank
in the conversation because Latin words, as well as clerics.

He taught rhetoric and Latin at the Institute of Manresa, and spoke of being moved one day
to Barcelona, ??glorious end an illustrious career.

Every week trip to the capital long visits to the widow of a notary.

- For me it is - said the good lady -. Who is bothered by an old woman? ... I tell you want
to tape, and will be a lucky girl to marry this man so wise, so serious.

Listening, Ulysses began to think what might break a bone, a professor of marine rhetoric without
incurring liability.

One day, Film searched the house and spent a thimble mat that served as many years. Of soon ceased
to rummage, blushed and looked down. His eyes had met the fleeting glance of his cousin. I had him.
In the fourth of Ulysses were tapes, skeins wire, an old fan, deposited on paper and books,
by the same mysterious ebb he had drawn his portraits of her mother's bedroom of his cousin.

The Marine liked to stay home. He spent long hours meditating with his elbows on the table, but at
the same time attentive to a whisper of light steps that sonar could at any moment in the hall
immediately.

All I knew: straight and spherical trigonometry, cosmography, the laws of winds and storms, the
latest discoveries ocean. But who could teach him how to talk to a girl without scaring her? ...
Where the hell was learned the art of pleading to a decent person? ...

It doubts were never long nor painful. Adelante!

Each step comes as it can. And later, when tape was the room to the bedroom of his aunt to bring
a pious book, stumbled into the hallway with Ulysses.

Not know, had trembled for their existence. He was grabbed by strong hands that off the ground.
Then a hungry mouth slammed in his two kisses aggressive. "Here,
and takes !...»

Ferragut repented when he saw his cousin trembling against the wall,
pale death, watery eyes.

- I hurt.

I'm a beast ... A brute!

Almost to his knees, begging his forgiveness, clenched his fists as if to hit, punishing their
audacity. But she would not let him go ... "No, no moaning !...» And while this protest, his arms
closed in a ring around the neck of Ulysses. His head leaned forward, seeking the shelter of his shoulder.
A moderately moist mouth joined at the mouth of the ocean, while
it's beard was wet with a mist of tears.

And do not say more.

When, weeks later, Cristina Dona heard the request of his son, his first move was a protest.
A mother hears with benevolence advance any claim on a daughter but it is ambitious and demanding
when it comes to a child. She had dreamed of something brighter. But his hesitation was short.
Shy girl that was perhaps the best companion to Ulysses.

Also, I was prepared for what he had seen in his childhood, to be the wife of a Marine ... Farewell
to Professor!

They married. Then, Ferragut, who could not live idle, returned to sea, but as first officer
of an ocean liner that made regular trips to South America. For him, this amounted to be used
in a floating office, visiting the same ports, invariably repeating equal work. His mother was
satisfied to see him in uniform. Fixed his eye tape on the calendar as the wife of an employee's
fixed on the clock. He was certain that after two months, he would appear again coming across
the land, charged exotic gifts, like a husband who returns from the office with a bouquet purchased
the street.

Returning from the first two trips went to wait on the dock, looked around her gold lace cap and
blue coat with passengers on ships that were moving decks with the joy of coming to Europe.

On the next trip, Dona Cristina forced her to stay home, fearing that
the excitement agglomerations and jeopardize its next port motherhood.

Then, in each of its arrivals, Ferragut saw a new child, but always the same: first, a wrapper
of batiste and lace held by a nurse Sunday best, then - when he was captain Transatlantic -
a little boy with skirts, chubby, round head covered with silky lint,
tending to it's arms and finally, a boy who began to go to school
and seeing his father grabbed his hard right hand, admiring it with
deep eyes, as though he saw in his person the realization of all the
forces of the universe.

Don Pedro the professor continued to visit the home of Dona Cristina,
although less frequently.

He had resigned and coldly angry gesture of the man who thinks he
has come too late and is convinced that his misfortune is the work
of the neglect ... If he had spoken before!

The certainty of its importance is not allowed to doubt that she would have accepted with joy.

Despite
this conviction, could not contain aggressiveness at times ironic, that is vented classic inventing
nicknames.

The young wife of Odysseus, bent over her lace work, Penelope was awaiting the return of errant
husband.

Cristina accepted this nickname, for knowing vaguely that it was a good queen customs. But the day
the professor, by logical deduction, called Telemachus to Tape son, Grandma protested.

- His name is Stephen, like his grandfather ... Telemachus That is the name of theater.

In one of his trips took Ulysses a scale of a few hours at the port of Valencia to see his godfather.
From time to time received letters from the poet, growing shorter and sad, shaky letters that
betrayed its decline.

Upon entering the office felt the same impression of the sleepers
of the legends, who believe waking up after a few hours of sleep and
stayed dozens of years.

Everything was like in its infancy: the busts of the great poets at the height of the libraries,
crowns in their glass cages, jewelry and statues won by force of consonants in their windows and pedestals,
the books of brilliant back to forming tight battalions along shelves. But the whiteness of the bust
had taken a chocolate color, the bronzes were red with rust, was green gold, crowns are leafless.
It seemed there was rained ash on the immobility of things.

People offered the same aspect of neglect and decay.

Ulysses met the poet skinny and yellow, deep in an armchair, his beard white luenga, one eye almost
closed and Another huge open. Upon seeing the ocean, broad chest, strong man, tan, Labarta
is began to mourn a child hiccups, as if crying on the misery of human illusions, on the deceptive
brevity of life that needs the waves of constant renewal.

More work still cost Ferragut recognize a lady that was small and cramped with the poet. His skeleton
hung flaccid fat tissues, like rags of past luxury. The head was small, her face wrinkling had the
wintry apples, plums, of all fruits that contract and mummified,
losing their liquid.

"Doña Pepa !...» The tuteaban old couple now in the presence of Ulysses, with the quiet amorality
of those who are close to death and forget the fears and scruples
of a life that is crumbling behind him.

The ocean seen in this physical misery the sad end of an absurd diet, happy and childish candy
serve as the basis of nutrition, the major rice-dish daily watermelon
and melon filling in between meals, ice cream served in cups enormous,
spreading the perfume of honeyed snow.

They both spoke sigh of illnesses, who judged incomprehensible, attributing to ignorance of doctors.
Consumption was suddenly attacking the people of the countries abundant.

His life was smelted in a blast of liquid sugar ... And yet guessed Ferragut the disobedience
of the old couple to the disciplines of the regime, its concealment Child tricks to please their
own fruits and syrups, the charm of its existence.

The interview was short. The captain had to return to Grao, where he waited his transatlantic soon
to sail for South America.

The poet cried again, kissing his godson. I would not see more to this giant that seemed to repel
their weak hugs with the bellows of his breath.

- Odysseus, my son ... Valencia always thinking ... Make for it all you can ... And you know. Always
Valencia!

What he vowed all the poet, not understanding what was expected of him Valencia, ocean simple wandering
the seas.

Labarta wanted to accompany him to the door, but sank into his chair, obedient to the despotism
of his loving companion, who feared for him major catastrophes.

Poor Dona Pepa! ... Ferragut felt like to laugh and to mourn when receiving a kiss from his mouth
wrinkled, whose hair had become spikes. It was a kiss that recalls old beauty in contact with a
handsome, a barren woman kiss caressing the child might have.

-
The unfortunate Carmelo!

... Do not write, and do not read ... Ay! What will become of me? ...

He spoke of the decline of his poet with pity of a strong and healthy. Is terrified to think about
the years he could survive his master.

Who look, not looked upon herself.

A year later, the captain found in Port Said, at the back of the Philippines,
a letter his godfather.

Doña Pepa had died, and Labarta, shaking his tearful stupor of its doldrums, the long goodbye
with a song. Ulysses spent the eyes of the newspaper clipping was within the letter containing
the last verses of the poet.

They were verses in Castilian. Bad! ... After that, it was undoubtedly his approaching end.

He had no opportunity to see him again: he died while traveling. Upon landing in Barcelona his
mother gave him a letter written almost in agony. "Valencia, my son always Valencia!" And after
repeating several times this recommendation, let him know it was his heir.

The books, statues, all the glorious memories Labarta, went to Barcelona
for decorate the house of the sailor.

Telemachus could entertain the small breaking the old crowns troubadour,
tearing pictures of volumes, with the unconsciousness of a spirited
child who his father is far away and was exposed to two ladies who
adore him. Furthermore, the poet left his godson an old house in Valencia,
more land and a certain amount in marketable securities. Total: thirty
thousand dollars.

The other guardian of his childhood, the strong
Triton, remained insensitive to the passage of time. Ferragut met
him several times, on arriving at Barcelona, ??installed in your home,
in dull hostility Dona Cristina, dedicating to Ribbon and her son
a part of the care that was previously only Ulysses.

Steven wanted
the little house knew the great-grandparents.

- Did I leave it? ...
You know that back in the Navy men are strong as bronze. You really
leave me? ...

He doubted his influence with the angry gesture of
soft Dona Cristina. "Trusting his grandson the Triton, that instills
the love of maritime adventure, like Ulysses? ... Behind blue devil!

The
doctor wandered bewildered through the port of Barcelona ... Too much
noise, too much movement. He walked proudly beside Odysseus, making
the adventures of his years of ocean tramp and cosmopolitan. Saw in
him the greatest Ferragut: sea man his grandparents, but with capacity;
adventurous of all the oceans as he had been but with a place on the
bridge, coated conferring absolute command responsibility and danger.

To
re-embark Ulysses Triton retreating to their domains.

- Next time
- said to console to leave without the child of his nephew