 Eighty and two
years old on February 3, San Blas blessed, a day after the Candelaria, why what I wanted to live
or what had been lost here? A man who served the King twelve years that for forty-five had been
stung thousands of thousands of tons of stone on these roads of God, and that was always well regarded
and puntoso, had nothing to do and, more to entrust the gravedigger who put a lot of land, much
land over, and pack it. In quantitative placed the two creatures, would lie not rise until
the day of Judgement in the afternoon ... And rise last! Pierced with grief upon hearing the
reference Benina so much misfortune, whose sincerity could not put into question, said the old man
to take her to where the child was ill, and soon was conducted to a room dark, on the ground
floor Large house corridor, where they lived together, for the payment of three pesetas a month,
average dozen beggars with their offspring. Most of these complained bitterly at the time in
Madrid, looking for the holy bitch. Benina saw only an old, petiseca and sleepy, it seemed drunk,
and a potbellied female, swollen, vinous, tight skin, like a corambre filled with the face Erysipelas,
poorly wrapped in cloths of different colors. On the ground, on a thin mattress covered with pieces
of yellow cloth and tattered blankets Morella, lay the sick girl, about six years, the pale
face, clenched fists in the mouth. "What has this creature is hungry - Benina said, who, having touched
on the forehead and hands, found it cold as marble.

- Maybe so, because hot thing has not come into our bodies from yesterday.

"

No longer needed a kind old lady, that it overwhelms the piety, which flooded mighty your soul and
bringing to reality his intentions with the speed that was her property, was at once to the grocery
store in the corner of that building there, and bought you need to get a pot immediately, also
taking eggs, coal, cod ... because she never did things by halves. At the time, and were remedied
those unhappy and others were added, the smell induced across the bottom of the hive soon spread.
And the Lord had to reward his charity, department, among the beggars attended the banquet,
a cripple with no legs, walking with arms, that he gave him true news of the lost order Almudena.

Moor
slept in the homes of Ulpian, and he spent the day praying hard,
and playing a guitar with two strings that Madrid had brought all
this without leaving a section dunghill, which falls below the flea
season, at the bridge looking towards Segovia.

There he was Benina slowly, because the person who guided journey was slow, as one who walks
with the buttocks bound in soil, on hands, and these in two billets of wood. By the way, the man
from the waist upwards ventured some indications criticism of the Moor, and somewhat bizarre
behavior. He thought that was Almudena cleric in the land, wants to say, priest of Zancarrón,
and in those days was the majometana penance of Lent, which consists of giving heels in the
air, eat only bread and water, and moisten palms with saliva. "What the harp sings hoarse should be
a matter of funerals there, because it sounds sad and mourn feel like hearing it. In short,
madam, there you have it lying on the carpet of peaks, and so still it seems who have turned
to stone. "

Distinguished, in fact, Benina the motionless figure of the blind, in a landfill, slag, rubble
and garbage, which is between the road and the path of Cambroneras amid absolute aridity, for neither
tree nor bush, nor any plant species growing there.

He went on the despernado, and Benin, with his basket on his arm, crawling up the heap, not without
difficulty, for he loose material that formed was the slope, slipped easily. Before winning could
the height at which the African was, loudly announced their arrival, saying: "But, son, go to
a site that has been to choose to put the sun! Do you want to dry off, and become leather drums?
... Eh ... Almudena, who am I, who am I going up these carpeted stairs! ... Chico, but what?
... Are you stupid, you asleep? ".

The Moroccan did not move, her face turned toward the sun, like a piece of meat would toasting.
Tirole the old one, two, three stones, until he got hit.

Almudena moved with trepidation, and his knees, cried: "B'nina, you B'nina.

- Yes, my son: here's this poor old woman, who comes to see the wilderness
where you dwell.

Well has not given you bad gust of wind! And that does not cost me a little work to find you!

-
B'nina! - Excitedly repeated the blind child, who was revealed in
a flood of tears, and the shaking of hands and feet -.

You vinir sky.

- No, son, no - said the good woman, and arrived with him, and giving slaps on shoulder -. Not
come from heaven, but I go to these cursed land crags. What an idea that has given you poor
Moor! Tell me, what is your country like that? ".

Mordechai did not answer this question, silenced them.

The blind man felt it with his hand trembling as if seeing it for the touch.

"I came - said the beggar at the end - because I thought, a guess,
you'd be starving.

- Did not eat me ...

- Do you do penance?

You could have put in a better place ...

- This micor ... Mount
Bunite.

- What a mountain!

What do you call this?

- Mount Sinai ... Me to be Sinai.

- Where you are is in the clouds.

-
You vinir with angels, B'nina ... vinir you with fire.

- No, son,
do not bring fire or necessary, that enough achicharradito're here.

You're being drier than a cod.

- Micor ... I want to dry ... and burn like paix.

- In straw you
would become if I let you.

But do not leave, and now you eat and drink I bring in my basket.

-
Did not eat me ... squieleto me to be.

"

Without waiting for more reasons, Almudena spread his hands, touching
the ground.

He sought his guitar, Benin saw and picked up, two-stringed strumming intemperate.

"Dami, dami! - Said the blind impatient, inspiration hit."

And grabbing the instrument, struck the strings, and got them sounds sad, Broncos, without harmonic
coherence between them. And then began to sing in Arabic a strange chant, accompanied with dry
and rhythmic sounds that drew the two strings. Benina heard this Cantici with true devotion,
for though it told him nothing of the lyrics and guttural extremely rough, or the cadence of
similarity are found here styles, it is that such music was an intense melancholy. Constantly
moving the blind head, as if to lead the words of her song to different parts of the sky, and
set in Lays some vehemence and enthusiasm burning denoting that he was possessed.

"Well, son, well - the old woman said when she finished singing -. I really like your music
... But the stomach does not tell you that he does not catechins
with these songs, and that you like best good lean?

- Eat your ...
me singing ... I ate with you the joy of being me.

- Do you feed
it with me here?

Bonita substance!

- Me wants you ...

- Yes, son, love me, but please realize that I
am your mother, and I come to take care of you.

- You be Bunite.

-
Mia I pretty ... more years of San Isidro, and this misery and this
fascist!

".

No less inspired talking than singing, Almudena said, "You be the
zucena com, branca ... D'Com palm desert belt of yours ... casmines
roses and mouth you ... the evening star thine eyes.

- Mary!

I had not yet learned how beautiful I am.

- Donzella tudas, envy of you had them ... Regocijación Hiciéronte
God hands.

Loan you angels with harp.

- San Antonio blessed!

... If you wish to create all those things you must do me a favor eat what you bring. After you
have filled your belly talk, now you're not in your right mind. "

Saying, was taken out of the basket bread, tortillas, canned meat and a bottle of wine. Listing provisions,
believing that this will awaken the appetite, and as the final argument said: "If you insist
on not eating, I get angry, and not be back again to see you. Say goodbye to my mouth of roses
and my eyes as the stars of heaven ... And then you have to do everything that I command you:
Come back to Madrid, and live in your house as soon as you lived.

-
If you marry me, this yes ... If not married, no.

- Do you eat or
not eat?

Because I have not come here to waste time by lying sermons - said
Benina displaying all the energy of her accent -.

If you insist on fasting, I'm going now.

- Eat your ...

- Both.

I come to you, and have lunch together.

- Casar thou me?

- Oh really heavy man! You look like a boy.

I will be forced to give you a couple of punches ... Ha, Moor, eat and feed, which will be discussed
at the wedding. Do you think I'm going to take a husband dry in the sun, which is lagging like
a scroll? ".

With these and other reasons persuaded him, and finally stopped the
unfortunate to be squeamish food.

Beginning with Repulgue, eventually devouring voraciously.

But he did not leave his subject, and in between bites, said: "I tigo Casar ... terra Dirna mine
... I married for arreligión yours if you want ... Arreligión you marry for me, if you want
it ... Me be d'Israel ... Baptism jacieron confirencia me ladies
... Put my name Joseph Marien Almudena ...

- José María de la Almudena.

If you are a Christian, talk to me no other arreligiones bad.

- Not have more than one God, one, only he - said the blind man, possessed of mystic exaltation
-. He melecina to the brokenhearted ... He stars count number, and by them tudas name calling. Adonai
love animals and Tuda cuatropea, and the bird-wing ... Alleluyah! ...

- Well, yes, now let us sing Alleluia to not hurt us food.

- Voice of Adonai on the water, on water mochas. The voice of Adonai with forza, voice Adonai with
jermosura. Adonai's voice breaks the Alarza of Lebanon and as fixed Tsion unicorns ... The voice of
Adonai short flames, face D'desert tremble, tremble Farah Adonai Kader D'desert ... The voice of
Adonai face adoloriar deer ... In his palace that tudas Grolier. Adonai settled by the flood
... Adonai bless her with peace puelbro ...».

Even continued reciting prayers in Hebrew fifteenth century Castilian, which from memory retained children,
and respect Benina heard him, waiting to bring it ended to reality
and subject to the common life.

They talked a while about the desirability of making to the Inn of
Santa Casilda, but he seemed not willing to please extremely important,
while not giving her word to accept his black formal hand.

He tried to explain the attraction that, in the state of his mind, he exerted on the crags
and tailings in arid at that time was. Actually, he knew not explain or understand Benina but
attentive observer may well be a glimpse into this strange fondness a case of atavism or feedback
to the old instinct, seeking the solitude geographical similarity rocky in the beginning of
the life of the race ... Is this nonsense? Maybe not.

XXIX

With all his wit and mischief could not convince the old Moroccan
opportunity Madrid turning to the high.

"I do not know - he said using all the arguments - I do not know how are you going to fix you
to live in this mountain of your penance. Because you do not ask, here one has to bring you the
pea, except to me, and I, if now I have some money soon I'll be without a speck, and I will
have to order it with shame. Do you expect you here dropping your mana?

- Yes manj Cader - Almudena replied with deep conviction.

- Trust that ... But tell me one thing, son: Will there be money buried here?

- Have mocha, mocha.

- Well, son, see if you take it out, which in this case would not
waste time.

But quia! I do not think me that you count potatoes or witchcraft that you've brought your
land of infidels ... No, no: there is no salvation for the poor, and that removing treasures,
or bring it one the truckloads of precious stones, it seems to me that it is conversation.

-
If you marry me, this I find treasures mocha.

- Well, well ... Then get to work for the investigation of where the barrel filled money. I will
come to draw with, and as true, to marry touch. "

Saying, collected in your basket leftovers to go. Almudena opposed it was so soon, but she insisted
on retiring, the firm he spent on all occasions "Then it would be good for me to stay I'm
here, put the sun and the air like a coat in the dryer Tanners! And tell me, Almudenita: are you
going to keep me here? And my wife, who keeps the peak? ".

This reference to the home of Mrs. Mordechai awakened the memory of the gallant Bunite, and as
excite more than usual on this occasion, hastened to soothe Benina the news that Ponte had
already left their aristocratic palaces, and that neither she nor her mistress Dona Francisca wanted
to try and brush with sly old man who had given them a poorly paid, farewell to the French, and the
boarding was a duty. The African Tragose this ball with childlike innocence, and promise and
swear by her friend that day to see him again While he continued
in that obligation of its bitter penance, let him go.

Was Benina above, preferring to go to the station, as output more comfortable and practical.

Back
home, the first thing his wife was asked if he knew when he returned from Guadalajara D. Romualdo,
to which she replied that no news had yet to secure the return of sir. Nothing occurred worthy
of note that day, but quickly improved Ponte, putting very joyful with the visit of Obdulia,
which spent four hours talking with him and his mom of fancy things, and Ronda events forty years
earlier in the present era. It should be noted also that he was undermining Benina money because the
child ate there, and it was necessary to add stuffing hake regular, plus dates and pastries
for dessert. With the expense of those days, with the prodigality charitable Cambroneras,
harsh which subtracted from the loan Pitusa after pressing debts paid off, they would reduce for
hours to get into one, or so, the day of the third escape from the suburbs Toledo Bridge.

It is ascertained that thing that third trip he was met by the old man of the day above, who called
Silverio, and went with him, formed in line of battle, others wretched inhabitants of those
humble villages, leading interpreter despernado man, expressing with ease, as if this ability
to compensate them by Nature horrible mutilation of his body. And he went and said, on behalf of
the guild of beggars who was present, the lady had to distribute its benefits to all without distinction,
since all were equally creditors to the fruits of his immense charity.

He answered with naive simplicity Benina she had no fruit or anything that deal, and that was
as poor as them. Welcomed these expressions with utter disbelief, not knowing the disabled
to oppose them, because all his oratory had been consumed in the first speech, addressed the old
Silverio and said they had not fallen in any nest, and in clear view was that Mrs. was not
what it seemed, but a disguised lady, with traces and beggar's rags point it was on those sites
deaminating true poverty and remedying it. Concerning this the costume had no doubt, because
they knew it years ago. Ah! and when he came, the other Once, Mrs. disguise, everyone was relieved
as well. While he and others remembered face and such modes, and could testify that was the same,
the same as at the time his eyes were seeing and feeling with their hands.

Confirmed with one voice told by the octogenarian Silverio, which had to add that by saint was taken
before the lady, and blessed to have this, respecting his disguise, and putting all their
knees before it and worship it. Benina answered cheerfully was so holy that she and her grandmother,
and they looked what they said and turn from their grave error. Indeed, there had been years
ago, a lady very Nobleman, called Doña Guillermina Pacheco, beautiful heart, great spirit,
which wandered in the world delivering gifts charity, and wore modest dress, without offending
decency, revealing his modesty sovereign the class to which he belonged. That most worthy
lady was no longer living. For being too good for the world, God took her to Heaven when we
need done around here. And although live, masters, How could it be confused with it, with the
unhappy Benina? A hundred leagues are known at this to a village woman, maid service. If his
suit very poor, full of patches and darned, for his broken sandals, they did not understand the
difference between a cook and retired Marquis born a woman, because this dress could well mask
other things there was no deception or mistake, for example, in speech. Those who heard the word of Doña
Wilhelmina, which was expressed as the angels, how could they be
confused with who said things in ordinary language?

She was born in a town of Guadalajara, Parent tenants coming to Madrid to serve when he was only
twenty years. He read difficulty, and writing was so bad, I just put his name: Cassia Benina. For this
name, some wags its people made fun of her saying it was from Santa Rita. Total: she was no
saint, but very sinful, and had nothing to do with the Doña Wilhelmina of yore, that was already
of God. It was a poor as they were, living on alms and are governed as he could to support his family.
Tell them God made generous, yes; and if something had, and found that she needed people,
could not wait to get rid all ... and so happy.

Convinced they did not give the miserable, left hand of God, and reaching their own emaciated,
with distressed voices calling to cassia Benin succor them. Ragged
and emaciated children joined the chorus, and clutches at the foot
of the unhappy Pascuala, you cry for food, bread. Sympathy with many
misfortunes, was the old to the store, bought a dozen loaves high,
and dividing into two, the split between the miserable crew. The operation
was complicated in the extreme, because they all rushed to her with
fury, each would receive their share before anyone else, and someone
tried to rip off two servings. It would seem to be double those hands
at the time of most contention, or leaving others underground. Suffocated,
the good woman had to buy more books, because two or three old women
who did not touch anything put the outcry, and rattled the neighborhood
with their discordant and plaintive cries