 Do you understand? Freed the girl. At the time of
Galba died, the relationship that he joined you disappeared too. The thing is as clear as the
light. Who is the girl? What Galba? This girl is dead and can not belong to the dead. It is a solemn
nonsense to claim that belongs to the dead. Is it his daughter? No? Who, then? The girl belongs
to her mother. Is not it?

- Where is it? - Said Mrs. Ponce concentrated voice, pale face.

- All I'll explain. The girl belongs to her mother. That no doubt.

I am a lawyer, legislator and citizen of the Union. My duty as a lawyer, legislator and a citizen
of the Union is to restore the girl to her grieving mother ... cost
what it may.

- But where is he? - Repeated Madame de Ponce, yet still
view the face of colonel.

- Well on his way to join his mother, left
yesterday on the steamer, bound for the East and carried by winds
favorable to those who, no doubt waiting with open arms.

Mrs. Ponce remained motionless. The colonel felt his chest slowly shrank, but apoyose against
a chair, and tried to hold a chivalric gallantry coupled the severity of the judicial robes.

-
Madam, on way to honor their sex, but we must also consider the feelings,
the situation of a mother, and at the same time, my situation.

The colonel made a pause here and taking out a white handkerchief carelessly passed it on his
chest and then smiled cynically through their embroidered folds.

Then he added:

- Why has a slight shadow to cloud the harmony of two souls that moves a single thought? Certainly,
she is beautiful is good, but, after all, is the daughter of another!

Was the girl, Clara, but not everything went with it.

Clara, consider, my dear, I always have to me by your side!

Clara rose to power.

- You! - Shouted chest with a note that vibrated the windows .-- You, whom I married to my darling girl
will not starve! You, I called the dog to my side away from me men! You! ...

Could not continue. Rushed into the next room, who was Carolina, then moved quickly your own bedroom,
and suddenly appeared before him, erect, menacing, with a burning fire in the cheekbones, furrowed
brows and contracted his throat.

It seemed that his head Colonel flatten and depressed her mouth like a snake.

- Roberto! - Said in a hoarse voice and energetic .-- Hey, Colonel!

If you ever want to set your view in me, bring me before the girl. If you ever want to talk or approach,
you must give it back. Where she is, will I be, do you hear? Wherever she has gone, I find
myself!

And again he walked past angry, throwing out his arms from the elbows
down as well to rid themselves of imaginary bonds, and, entering her
room, shut the door and the key turned to violence.

Colonel Roberto, but not a coward, I felt angry for a woman a superstitious fear; back to leave
a clear path and was rolling helplessly on the couch. There, after one or two unsuccessful attempts
to stand up, he remained motionless, uttering of occasionally incoherent profanities mixed with
protests, until finally succumbed the weariness of emotion and the ingested alcohol narcosis.

Meanwhile,
Mrs. Ponce excited collecting jewelry and made his case, as other
Once he had made in the course of his eventful life.

Perhaps a memory of that scene in his mind wandered, then repeatedly stopped to support the
burning cheeks in his hand, as if again You should see the figure of the girl, standing in the doorway
and repeating angelic voice, the familiar question: - Is it Mom? - But this name is now tormented
cruelly. He drew from his imagination with a quick, passionate gesture, and wiped a tear that
rolled down her cheeks.

Then wanted the chance that removing her clothes, give to a girl's shoe, with a broken tape.
A piercing scream came out of his chest, the first he had uttered that day, and hugged each other,
kissing passionately again and again; meciola with that own maternal movement of women, then
took her to the window to see better through the tears that clouded his eyes. Suddenly suffered
a severe attack of coughing who tried to drown her handkerchief to
her lips red as scarlet.

And then felt fainted, it seemed that fled before her window, the floor was sinking under its
feet, and was staggered to bed, fell face down on her, shaking convulsively handkerchief to her
chest and shoe.

His face was horribly pale, orbits his eyes darkened, and his lips
first, then in his handkerchief, and finally on white bedspread few
drops of blood appeared.

Strong wind arose, shook the blinds and white curtains waved in a
way great, then a gray mist slid smoothly over the rooftops, stroking
the windswept walls and wrapping it all in dim light and quiet impressive
...

* * * * * * *

Clara lay motionless, despite all its troubles,
was a beautiful bride, but on the other the door closed and locked,
the colonel was snoring in his bed improvised violence.

IV

The small town of Genoa, in the State of New York, revealed last week to Christmas 1870, even
more than usual, the bitter irony of the name given its founders. A heavy snowfall blanketed
shrubs, plants, walls and telegraph poles; close siege to put sweet Italian capital arremolinábase
around the massive columns Doric wooden post house and hotel, green shutters suspended of
the best houses and powdered the angular shapes, rigid and dark of their routes. The ships of the
four main churches in the city, stood sharp line breaking of the houses and hiding in the low
swirl their misshapen towers. Close to the station, the new Methodist chapel, like a huge locomotive,
preceded, as a lifeguard, of the pyramid steps, seemed to expect that some houses were added
to go to a more pleasant place. And the pride of Genoa, the great Crammer Institute, for girls,
dominated the main avenue with its strange facade of brick and its tall, stately dome. From anywhere
in the city, could be seen easily the Crammer Institute, so that
under this view, did not belie his character as a public in which
no missing never a visitor in their step and a pretty face leaning
out their windows.

The whistle of the locomotive of the express northernmost of the four, brought to the station
very little of his usual empty crowd. Only one passenger got out and walked in solo sled to
the hotel in Genoa.

Then the train ran indifferent as all express trains, human curiosity, which returned the empty
baggage car to your garage and the station chief closed the door and went into retirement.

The shriek of the locomotive guilty conscience awakened three ladies of the Institute Crammer
at that time were given away in a neighboring street, the candy store of Mrs. Bridget eating
cakes. The rules of the Institute left extensive development of the physical nature and morals
of her students, in groups were satisfied with the excellent rules of diet, but extrarreglamentarios
feasts were permitted privately with goodies from your provider particular of the people attended
church with exemplary formality, but flirted during the divine office with the gilded youth of
the people in classes and received severe moral instruction and during the holiday devoured
most uplifting novels. The result of this dual education was a strong group of young, bright and
lovely overlooking the infinite Institute credit. Mrs. Bridget although he was owed large
sums, he praised the good humor and youthful beauty of his parishioners
and declared that the sight of these young ladies the rejuvenated,
but it is suspected that favors the unscrupulous covert raids those
were.

- Amigas! four, if we do not turn to prayer, give to speak
- said rising the highest of these foolish virgins, girl aquiline
nose and settled ways revealing a clever director roost.

- Do you
have books, Adelaide?

Adelaide taught under his raincoat three most holy books do not look.

-
What provisions, Carolina?

Carolina showed a bag of suspicious-looking package.

- Everything
is current.

Girls up.

Put it in the bill - said nodding the hostess, while advancing towards the door .-- I'll pay when
the quarter my power.

- No, Catalina - Carolina said, pulling out his purse, - let me pay my turn.

- Under no circumstances - Catalina said, arching his black eyebrows sovereign, - and I know
you rich relatives in California promptly send you funds, but I will
not allow it.

Come on, girls, go!

When you open the door, a strong gust of wind violently entered the store, which frightened
the gracious Dona Brigida.

- For God's sake, ladies, you should not leave this time! I'd better stop send a message to
the Institute and fix them a nice bed here.

But the last sentence was lost in the chorus of half-drowned screaming girls throwing, holding
hands, jumping in the middle of the storm, and soon were involved in the whirlwind hurricane.

Dusk, and the few hours of that December day, not illuminated the
vivid colors of the setting sun, ended quickly.

The temperature was cold for others and in the air dense whirling
snowflakes.

Inexperience, and especially the vigor of youth, gave resolution
girls, but dared to cross the field for a shortcut to avoid the bends
Mayor Street, and laughter expired on his lips and tears began to
point in Carolina's eyes.

Backward, and to reach the road, were overwhelmed by fatigue.

-
Let us go back - said Carolina.

- It would be possible as we go through
the field again - said Adelaide.

- Let's stop, then, in the first
house - said that.

- The first house - Adelaide said, peering through
the darkness rising, - is the squire Robinson - Carolina said and
started to look picaresque that even in their concern and fear did
that her cheeks were dyed with carmine.

- That's right!

Yes - Catalina said ironically - of course, let's stop at the home of Squire, and invited us
to dinner, and then we will drive home your dear friend Henry, formal apology from Mr. Robinson,
praying that this time we pardon.

No - continued Catalina with sudden energy, - that can you please yourself, but as I've come
back, by the window, or I stay at this place.

And suddenly dropped on Carolina, who was crying on a pile of snow, and shook strength.

- Then sleep. Chito! Streets! What is that?

You could hear the bells a few collars and darkness was coming towards
them a sleigh with a single conductor.

- Let's hide, girls: if someone
who knows us, we are lost.

Fortunately, it was not, and before they could put into effect his
thought, a voice unknown to their ears, but kind and pleasant timbre,
asked if he could be helpful in something.

It was a beautiful man in a sealskin coat, his head covered a cap to the body, and his face
partially covered by a scarf too fur could be seen only a few long whiskers and two black eyes
vivid.

- A son of the old St. Nicholas - Adelaide said quietly.

The girls, natural voice chatting, lying on the sled, regained their previous tranquility.

-
Where are you going to take? - Peacefully said the unknown subject.

There were, including rapidly consulted, and finally, Catalina said
with determination:

- Al Crammer Institute.

Quietly climbed the hill to the long, ascetic building was pointed
out to them.

The stranger suddenly dropped the reins and asked:

- Where do you go? You know the way better than me.

- The rear window - Catalina said with sudden and startling candor.

- I understand! - Guide replied the stranger calmly.

And when he dismounted, removed the bells sound horses.

- Now we
can approach as much as you want - added by way of explanation.

-
Certainly a son of St. Nicholas - said softly Adelaide - could not
ask news of his father?

- Silence! - Catalina said with decision,
- it may be an angel.

And with delightful inconsistency perfectly understood by his female audience, he continued:

- We made three visions.

Cautiously jumped the fence and finally stopped a few feet away from
a dark wall.

The stranger ayudolas to alight.

The confused and dim light of sunset shimmered in snow, and as the guide had beautiful hands with
his companions, each of these was subjected to a thorough examination,
but respectful.

Clothed in the most serious ayudolas to open the window, then retire quietly to the sled until
he finished the difficult and if access is not broken inside. He then returned to the window.

- Thank you, good night - girls murmured at a time.

One of the three figures was still in the window, and the stranger leaned over the railing.

-
Let me turn here this cigarette, as the light of phosphorus out there might call attention?

With the help of this light could see Catalina nicely framed in the
window.

Consumiose the match slowly between his fingers, and a mischievous
smile appeared on the lips of Catalina.

The astute young man had understood so poor subterfuge. What he had to assert, then, be first
of its kind, and what not, parents have paid the tuition for three
consecutive years?

The next day the storm had ceased, and the sun shining and cheerful
living room study, when Catherine of Corlear, which had its place
beside the window, She took pathetically hand on his heart and fell
on the shoulder of his neighbor Carolina, simulating a sudden fading.

-
You are here - sighed.

- Who? - Said Carolina forward, never clearly
understood that when Catalina formal speaking.

- Who?

For the man who saved us last night! I see him just now reaching
the door.

Calla: in a moment I'll be better.

And pathetically hypocritical passed his hand across his forehead
with a tragic manner.

- What do you want? - Carolina asked with ever
increasing curiosity.

- Ask him - he said .-- Catherine casually
may give the school their five daughters.

May want to improve the education of his wife and put on guard against us.

- Well, girl, do not look old, and fewer married - Adelaide replied
doctrinally.

- Poor girl!

That means nothing! - Catalina skeptical answered .-- Can not a never
say anything about these men ... They are so fake!

Besides, I always I have such bad luck.

- Well ... Catalina! - Began Carolina.

- Silence! The lady is going to say something - Catalina said with a smile.

- The boarders will do the favor of paying attention - a voice said quietly indolent .-- In
the parlor asking for Miss Carolina Galba.

Don Juan Prince, name stamped on the card and in various letters and credentials submitted the
Rev. Mr. Crammer, paced impatiently about the severe room officially designated with the reception
hall name, and privately among females with that of purgatory. With this scrutiny examining the
hard details of the room, from the polished furnace steam like a huge soda-cracker coating, which
heated one end of the fourth to the monumental bust of Dr. Crammer, who shudder at the other,
from the Paternoster drawn by a former teacher of calligraphy, with such a variety of stylish
features writing, which greatly diminished the value of the composition, three views population,
taken from the natural from the Institute, professor of drawing, and that nobody had been able to recognize,
from two events illustrated the Old Testament, written in letters English, so horribly remote
froze all human interest, to a large photograph of the upper class, in which the prettiest
girls were the color Ethiopic, sitting, apparently, some heads and shoulders above the others.
Mechanically flipped through the pages school catalogs, the sermons
of Dr. Crammer, the Poems of Henry Kirke White, the Legends of the
Sanctuary and Lives of celebrated women, his vivid imagination and
nervously heightened for their particular situation, it represented
the tender and touching farewell meetings that should have taken place
there, and that the room extrañose not keep something that could expressing
such human feelings, and even had almost forgotten the object of his
visit when opened the door to make way for Carolina Galba.

The visitor's face he had glimpsed the night before, seemed even more
beautiful what had seemed then, however, was as confused or discontent,
though he could not expect to find such a beautiful creature