 One was thin,
pale, small eyes, pretty ugly all over, but dressed with great neatness and elegance Romillo name was
John, son of a wealthy haberdasher in the Rue du Prince, his father had for the forum, which
had made great strides, but instead had a very early age excelled in the art of dressing and in
full knowledge, whatsoever, of all the news true or false ran through the town: in the houses
where he came not read newspapers news, because they were useless: this is reducing their science
and their parts. The other was a cute boy, blonde, pink, thin and incipient beard, blue eyes
and wet lips always folded with tender smile, humble, friendly gestures without being cramped.
He was born in Cuba of an affluent family, who later went bankrupt in the stock market game
settle in Spain. He was a lawyer too, like his friend and classmate Romillo, but much more studious
and exploited, which was of necessity, was in prospect Romillo fortune, as he only he acquired
his work. Contained in Academy of Court as he hopes, and founded with others a society for the
abolition of slavery, and another to abolish the fifth and fees sea. In these matters of humanitarian
concern showed Valle (Arturo del Valle was his name) an activity and as laudable as prodigious
interest: the number of meetings, or meetings, as stated in the newspapers, and banquets for
his initiative had been promoted, was incalculable, the articles and pamphlets he had written in
support of his ideas generous could not be assessed accurately. These flyers would come under
the title, stamp token, an engraving showing a black bad knees, shackled with hands raised
to heaven. At the banquet also included another bold, but meat and bone: a dessert of these feasts
humanitarian rarely let up saying Valley loud and solemn

- I designed, sir, there is a man out there who want fraternise Colo us. Do you have any objection
to this victim of injustisia Sosial between a greeting?

- That one, that between now! - The assembly shouted as one man, seized with enthusiasm abolitionist.

Valle
then opened the door and drew the bold hand, which left the embrace
of all the guests with cheers and applause.

And then get drunk as any white and even better sometimes. This character appropriate, always arriving
by chance at the end Facilities of abolitionists, in time became
known in Madrid.

People used to say when passing in the street, "There goes the black for the Valley."