 

These words, which suddenly changed so radically the situation, astounded my masters, then a great
joy happened to the old sadness, and finally, when allowed strong emotion thinking about cheating,
I severely questioned, scolding by the great shock that had caused them. I apologized saying
it to me were counted as referee, and D. José María was furious, calling me rascal, liar and
intriguing.

Indeed, D. Rafael lived and was out of danger, but had remained in Sanlúcar home of people
known as his father came to Cadiz in search of his family to take next to the wounded. The reader
will not understand the origin of the mistake that made me announce as good faith with the death
of the young, but I bet that few suspect that some reading this great lie of the old Malespina
sent to my ears the news of a supposed misfortune. This was neither more nor less. As I learned after
going to Sanlúcar accompanying the family, D. José María had forged a novel of heroism and skill
on his part, in various cliques noted the strange case of the death of his son, if details,
circumstances so dramatic that for a few days the fictitious character was the object of praise
all for their dedication and courage. He said that, having sunk the boat, he had to choose
between saving his son and all others, opting for the latter, because to be more generous and
humanitarian. Embellished his legend with details as pilgrims, as interesting and yet so plausible,
that many believed it. But the deception was discovered soon and deception did not last long, although
the need to reach my ears, forcing submit it to the family. Although he had very bad idea of ??the
veracity of the old Malespina, I could never believe that lying is allowed in matters as serious.

Past
those strong emotions, my love fell into deep melancholy, barely speaking, it would seem his
soul, lost the last hope, had liquidated all kinds of accounts with
the world and preparing for the final journey.

The absence of definitive Marcial took away the only that your child's friend senescence, and not
having to play with the boats, was consumed in deep sadness. Not even seeing him so depressed
Francisca relent in its task of mortification and the day of my arrival I heard him say:

"Bonita have made it ... What do you think?

Still not satisfied? Walk, walk to the top.

Was I right or did not have it? Oh, if was made for me ... Will you learn now?