 

Hence the great embarrassment in which they were Dona Luz and her lover barely said they wanted. Doña
Luz, especially, did not know what to do. He felt ashamed of what he said, wanted away from the
gaze of the man, and not resolved to flee, fearing that his escape seemed childish ridiculous artifice
or unbecoming of a woman of twenty years.

Fortunately, Mrs. Manolita instinctively sensed that difficult situation,
and delivered it Suddenly her friend, appearing again in the parlor.

And, later, over lunch, in the midst of the guests, in view of D. Acisclo and Fr Henry, and after
having calmed down and recovered from the first emotion, spoke Dona Luz D. Jaime with rest, he
found ready for anything, and as she had no father or mother who
view, neither he nor I had any, both determined to marry without noise
or unit, and most soon as possible.

In order not to part at once, without anyone miss the prolongation
of his stay in that place, D. Jaime said he had one more week to see
if he bought the olive grove was in treatment.

-XV-

First trace
of a marriage romance

Is difficult to have anything hidden in a small
town.

All we know at once, even if the amount not known.

D. The proposed wedding Jaime and Doña Luz, who knew nothing mattered,
no wonder, then, that news reached the point at all in Villafría.

The arrest of D. Jaime course was attributed to its true motive, and
no one tried but excuse the purchase of the olive.

One case of fulminant and especially love that so improvised consortium, gave much to say, comment
and gossip.

In places in Andalusia, there is nothing awe as much as a sudden wedding. For everything there
is often made with great pause. Nowhere is less acceptable English saying that the time is money.
Nowhere is used more often and in practical life sentence castiza Spanish and archives to make
time, that is, of losing, of expenditure, we weigh and bored his walk slow and quiet infinity.
But where it is most extreme in Andalusia make time is in dating. Contributes to this, on the
one hand, prudence, recognizing the serious transcendental marriage, continually counsels us: before
you get married, look what you do. It contributes much more, on the other hand, this look at
what you do is great fun; is the best way to kill or do time, it is a pleasant occupation, who
provided has none, and no sooner run out of her house.

Hence, no doubt, endless engagements of my land, which also are given finest examples of strong
evidence that can record the stories of love. Dating should begin when the bridegroom is with
Dominie learning Latin, passed through humanities, law or medicine, and do not end in marriage
to the groom is a judge of first instance or attending physician. During this time, the couple
are written when are absent, and when they are in the same town, are in mass in the morning,
they become to see two or three more times during the day, often stripping the kettle during
the siesta, return to be in the afternoon at the mall, go to the same gatherings from eight to eleven
at night and now, after dinner, they repeat verse and talk through the bars, and there are nights
when are stripping the kettle again, and chewing iron to dawn in East Aurora of the fingers
of pink.

In proof of this true account antequerano boyfriend, who finally had to marry after eight years
of being boyfriend and that he had no sooner married, looked troubled and not knowing what to
do with their time. In another boyfriend, a native of Carcabuey, I have heard also have at
WITNESS ingrained is the idea that marriage requires a lot of calm before take out his future mother,
considering that her daughter had thirteen years of talking with that boyfriend, without reaching
him to ask, and she was going ajando and fading a bit, resolved to ask the groom what brought
intentions. And having armed resolution asked the question, the boyfriend answered very surprised
and disappointed it is not - save me God, lady!

Is this dagger rogue?

Prevail and even private as healthy Villafría doctrines about the
longevity of engagements, and will pay the reader wonder that produce
this outburst, that impremeditación that Dona Luz was decided.

-
This is a bullet - said one.

- Come on - said another - everything
is well understood: if she claimed he did not think of marrying, was
for lavatories, because he despised the locals, but just arrived here
by a dandy court and fell on him and caught him, like a spider traps
a fly.

The spurned suitors, once carried everything with resignation, assuming The console, which Dona
Luz disdain born of his love for God and heaven, where Dona Luz knew
they liked both the land and another man like them, forgave either,
and decried its lightness.

- It has been thrown into the arms of
first come - cried - no love, no estimate, because neither love nor
the estimate are born so suddenly.

La has seduced the desire to go to shine the Madriles.

To buñolera which put Roma to fry and sell their donuts at the corner of the house Don Acisclo,
gypsy very judgmental, called Watermark, more famous for its judgments
that the very same Peter Lombardo said ironically:

- Dona Luz is
an oriental pearl, and pearl fisherman does not notice, or if it is
or is not; what it claims is that the fish and take a look at the
Oclaye Olen.

Not a few of such gossip reached the ears of Dona Luz, but did not
make a dent in your heart.

Nothing was held out an echo in their clean and quiet conscience. Dona Light was a woman and had
a soul and felt need for love. His love, no visible object and human as had been dormant until
then. A worthy object offered to end its eyes, and Dona Luz point
he devoted all his love.

Every day, every hour that passed, said more Dona Luz on the belief that Don Jaime deserved. The
same love of D. Jaime, the decision that he had offered his hand
to her, helpless, orphan and poor, was the best guarantee and safer.

As she got married and wanted to go to be in Madrid, laughed scornfully Dona Luz to hear it.
Luz had decided not to go to Madrid while he could not go: stay Villafría living in his ancestral
home, have there its center, his headquarters, nest, caring from there assets and cash them
improve and grow; drown in his soul all jealous propensity; and, not consent, but encourage her
husband to be alone in the capital, to shine Congress of Deputies, in political struggles and
military affairs.

Luz wanted Vitoria imitate this to Colonna, and wait for their hero, their sun, their lover, when
he came to rest at the rustic asylum, her love spells had to fill and delight. I did not want,
in short, be heavy burden for him in Madrid, but rest, refuge, comfort holy and sweet, in that
village.

In his loving conversations with D. Jaime, Dona Luz revolved around his plan. He wanted to glory
power, influence at court, and this interspersed with a series of idylls in Villafría where she
had to wait for him, as Armida charity, every time he came to rest in his arms, covered with fresh
laurels. Don Jaime was struggling because Dona Luz had to go to Madrid with him; Dona Luz but
hated it with so great obstinacy, that D. Jaime had to compromise,
agreeing that for now, that is, until they were both much richer,
Dona Luz continue residing in Villafría.

All this was fixed so poetic that the reader, as you know, not to censor Dona Censored light as the
people of his place, but in any case, on the contrary: for left rare and pride, because he preferred
to live many months of the year separated from her husband to be in Madrid perpetual cause prosaic
and economic difficulties, enough to kill the love more robust.

Doña Luz, thus firmly drawn by his own hand and the future of his life, he saw in his soul,
but reasons for satisfaction and contentment. His inner flourished. The sweet yearning being a wife
and mother moved with forebodings of ineffable tenderness. An interior light light up his
mind, beatified, and it appeared that seeps to the outside, radiated his face and gave her beautiful
body greater beauty than ever.

And the fields are covered in the early spring bloom and the sky turns purple and gold when
the sun's out, and then showed Dona Luz more graceful and glowing.

His joy was so noble, so generous and so trusting, and this joy divine expression lent itself
to her figure was so gentle sympathetic lucky that the censorship was unarmed out, and look,
had to bless all mankind.

In his mind was mostly bright and cheerful. There was only back in the depths, a small corner
where the light does not penetrate well, and where, in a confused way, was like a seed, barely
perceptible as a seed of anger and unrest.

Doña Luz, either inadvertently aware of it, by instinct savior, I tried to pull that seed,
to drown him germ, so that it does not come from the poisonous grass.

Luz thought about his relationship with P. anomalous Enrique, in that friendship blaze at the
affection that had always shown.

Of course for Dona Luz it could not even remotely have anything in common with love. But, therefore,
his affection for the Father should remain, and demonstrations of this affection should not
cease or mitigated, otherwise that she was inclined to believe they were the very essence of
what was in his soul future husband, who had acted as fickle and inconstant, that one had not
the free, the intact, never given to anyone who treasured caring heart, but something or much
of what went before and quitádoselo given to another course.

So, strove Dona Luz, but in vain, as they are, as always, gentle and
loving with P. Enrique.

And, as he saw he could not, as he saw it from touching your soul with the Father, and by the
word, and by the look, whereas before it seemed that sprouted heat and magnetic fire, then it
was ice, he explained assuming no spirit or force in the human hearts for several affections, and
that where one prevails, the other falls and fainting, even of very different social and nature.

The
soul of Father went to Dona Luz always clear, transparent and impenetrable, like the sea deep
that encircles and embraces the Andalusian coast.

The sun passes through many layers of water and all so full of clarity, but there in the depths,
lost and obscures the view, including iris, reflexes, sunflowers and lightning Argentina, and
nothing distinguishes accurately and steadily. The Father had not changed in appearance at
least. The same serenity as sweetly as ever. Not alter his voice to speak of D. Nor Jaime D.
Jaime. In speaking with Dona Luz, showed Father loving former benevolence. Not a word which even
remotely felt a touch of irony, of pique or spite.

"Either the father has on himself an unlikely domain - Dona Luz thought
- or not loved me ever.

Would see that the suspected Manuela, I heard as full of malicious injury villainy had been at
the bottom of my creation ridiculous vanity, which, deepening the issue well, I was flattered instead
of angry. No, no doubt: the good of P. Henry believes me, I have in high regard, thanks to his great
indulgence, I want as a neighbor of choice, but everything else is absurd dream, my imagination
is presumed. And it's better that way. "

And Dona Luz end with these words, she sighed to vent, as people take off serious burden.

At other times, even more anxious to unload their conscience, to decline all responsibility, although
the above reasoning was proven to himself that there was nothing disgusting to leave responsibly,
Dona Luz was fading in his memory all favors I had done the Father was taking everything worth
and significance to the show of affection had given him, and it was reducing everything to
minor proportions of a cold friendship and severe, as it can and must mediate between a student
and a teacher, scaring himself or removing any troublesome memories, false in its feel, even
the slightest flirtation unconscious on her part.

Meanwhile, the days passed and was approaching wedding, which was to be without any equipment.

Don Pepe Acisclo and Güeto, however, had made a short trip to Seville
to buy gifts the bride, each according to his abilities.

D. The Acisclo was magnificent. It consisted of a pair of earrings
and a diamond brooch, that cost him two thousand dollars.

Pepe The Ghetto was a bracelet that cost ten thousand.

Don Jaime Madrid had instructed some finery and jewels, which should arrive any day.

Don Jaime lives showed impatience, and seemed very much in love, and
tried to rush the wedding.

While sighed closer the day, more tender were the parties, their intimate
conversations were endless, went out riding together, Dona Luz in
his, and D. Jaime in another very good and beautiful, the property
of D. Acisclo, and also went for a walk on foot, accompanied by Dona
Manolita very boasts of being the mediator in this happy partnership.

Fr Henry was always going to dine with D. Acisclo, but claiming that he had to write or to
study, stayed to lunch at his house, where his servant prepared and
served Ramon a frugal breakfast.

Also the gathering of night, or have already retired earlier than
usual, or as he withdrew the Father, but this was not surprising.

Don Pepe Güeto Acisclo and gave the example. Certainly the whispered conversation of the couple
and their involuntary abstraction of all uninvited onlookers something else.

The doctor D. Anselmo came and went, staying briefly at the meeting. No longer disputed and brings
out their philosophies, because Dona Luz paid no attention to anything but D. Jaime.
It was then that the gathering, so busy before, was almost always
square.

Don Acisclo, D. Anselmo, Pepe and Father Güeto scuttled,
and the couple were alone, in his eternal Smalltalk, as I said Dona
Manolita; it, which was resigned to do with taste role of owner, the
Greyhound Palomo, was put at the feet of D. Jaime, who had taken much
love to know instinctively much she was his mistress, and sometimes
the priest D. Michael, who whispers of the lovers produce the same
effect as shouting and speeches of philosophers, leaving you pleasantly
asleep, perhaps dreaming of the great role he played to rejoice in
that drama, when the couple cast forth blessings