 This, explained the naive innocence that feels so good a barbarian,
but a Greek taste had seen little attic.

Remembering the weary Partenia, I considered that another had been his fate, marry the ancient
Greek drama, at least would always dress decently without him basted wool suit for meals for
an entire year and cooking fats, not been forced to wait at table with her hair uncombed, nor have
his clothes hanging the two children with dirty fingers, dragging
unconscious to the grave.

These little optimistic musings of induced figured the cake was still
in the stomach, so I got up and told Ingomar show me the room because
I wanted to sleep.

Following the terrible barbarian, wielding a candle lit, went up the stairs up towards my room.
Caused me to notice that it was the only one with a single bed, and that had built for couples
who could do up there, but the absence overdue occasion, he had left half furnished. One wall
was lined and the other had large cracks. The wind that blew constantly over Wingdam, penetrated
into the chamber through different openings, the window was left little for their breakup, which
hung giving strange squeaking. It seemed all nasty and dirty. Before leaving Ingomar brought
me a bear fur, and throwing it on a kind of coffin that was in a
corner, said abrigaría me back and said goodbye, wishing me a happy
dream.

I was still naked when the light went out in the middle of this operation, I curled up under
the skin of a bear and tried his best to settle down soon falling asleep. However, it was disclosed.
I heard the wind which swept up and down the mountain, waving the melancholy pine branches,
then went home and struggled on all doors and windows of the building. Esparramaban strong air currents
often my hair on pillow with strange howling. Green wood on the walls gave off moisture that penetrated
even the skin through which I had given plantigrade. I felt like Robinson Crusoe on your tree,
after removing the ladder, or as the child who rocks the cradle. After half an hour of sleep,
I was standing in Wingdam me. After the third quarter time I regretted going to bed, and after an
hour of restlessness, I got ready to dress. Animome belief that he had seen fire in the common room,
and she might still burning. I went outside my room and kept in the dark corridor that resonated
with snoring of Gemany and the relentless wind whistle. I slid stairs down, and finally, entering
the room, I saw that the fire was still burning. I pulled a chair, I removed foot and I was surprised
to see Partenia sitting there too, with a creature the haggard face in her lap.

I told him if it would be indiscreet to ask him what was up yet.

No sleeping on Wednesdays until the arrival of mail, to call her husband
if he passengers who attend.

Is not he tired?

Sometimes, but Abner (the name of the barbarian) who had promised to give him help, the Next spring,
if the business prospered.

How many guests were?

He estimated that would come about forty meals a fixed time and had parish of transients, which
were so numerous that she and her husband could serve, but it worked well.

What job?

Oh! download firewood, carrying the baggage of passengers ...

"For
a long time she was married?

Some nine years and had lost a child and a child and had three others. He was from Illinois,
she Boston. He had been educated in high school girls from Boston,
I knew a little Latin and Greek and mathematics.

When his parents died came alone to Illinois to bring school saw
him, they got married ... a marriage for love ... (Two souls ... etc.)
Later migrated to Arkansas; thence across the plains to California,
always on the edge of civilization.

Did you want maybe ever go home?

I had not disliked because of their children, because he wanted to give them some education. She
had taught them something, but not much because of the excessive occupation. She was convinced
that the child would be, like his father, strong and cheerful: he
feared that the girl seemed rather to it.

I had often thought that I was not raised to be the wife of an innkeeper.

Why?

His forces were not many women had been friends of her husband in Kansas they could do more work, but he
complained, was so good!

(Two souls ... etc.)

Contemplela to light the home, whose reflections frolicked in his face withered and wilted,
but still thin and delicate. Leaning his head and thoughtfully, was in the weary chlorotic arms and
half-naked children, in spite of neglect, dirt and tatters, retained
a remnant of past distinction and it is no wonder that I feel I excited
so she called the "goodness" of her husband.

Encouraged by my sincere curiosity, I said that little by little he had left what I thought be weaknesses
of his early education, but felt he lost his already small force in this new situation. Moving from
city to forest, was hated by women, that attacked as arrogant and presumptuous, all this father
of her husband's unpopularity among mates, and driven in part by his adventurous instincts and
partly by circumstance, led to other lands.

He continued the story of the sad odyssey. In his memory there was another reminder of the way tour
a vast and desolate wilderness, whose uniform stood a small plain cairn, the grave of her son.
For some time, noted that Willie enflaquecía and Abner noted, but men do not understand the creatures,
and also was annoyed traveling with so many people and in such conditions.

It happened that after spending Sweetwater, she was walking one night
beside the chariot and watching the twinkling of the stars, when he
heard a little voice saying, - Mother! - ran into the wagon and saw
that Willie slept restlessly and would not wake; a moment later he
heard the same dull voice repeated: - Mother! - returned to the carriage,
bent the little boy and got his breath on my face and covered it again
and again as he could just starting beside him, asking God to cure
him, and with eyes raised to sky, heard the same voice, and lifeless,
which called for the third time: - Mother! - and then a large and
bright star crossed the room, away from her sisters, and died, and
sensed what had happened and ran to the wagon again, just to shake
on his aching heart a contorted face and cold as marble.

At this point, led the her thin hands and eyes reddened and for some moments silent. A gust
wind blew furiously round the house and gave a violent onslaught
against the door input, while Ingomar the Barbarian, on his bed of
skins of the back, snoring with beatific placidity.

Naturally, the value and power of her husband would always find protection
against the aggressions and outrages of all kinds.

That had to say it clear! When Ingomar was with her, not afraid of anything, but it was very nervous,
and one day gave him a regular fright.

How?

It was in the early days of his stay in California. Had established a house of drinks and spirits
and soft drinks sold for interns. Abner was hospitable, and drank with everybody by the lure of popularity
and business, to Ingomar started to like liquor and ended to take excessive indulgence. One
night I had a lot of people and noise in the canteen, she came to him out of there, but only succeeded
in awakening the coarse gallantry of the rioters semiborrachos, and when they finally got
it to his room and his frightened children, he dropped to the bed as dormant, which made him
believe that the liquor was a narcotic. And she sat beside him throughout the night without
closing his eyes. At dawn he heard footsteps in the corridor, facing the door and saw that
rose quietly latch, as if trying to open the door, shook her husband to wake him, but in vain,
finally, the door gave way little by little above (below had bolted
the gate) as a gradual outward push, and a hand was introduced by
the slit.

Driven by a strange impulse, she rose like a flash, nailing the hand against the door with
their scissors (her only weapon), but the tip was broken and the
attacker escaped by throwing a terrible curse.

Never mentioned it to her husband, for fear of killing someone, but one day the inn was a foreigner,
and by serving coffee, saw him on the back of the hand strange scar.

We continued talking for a while, the wind still blowing, and Ingomar snoring in his bed fur, as echoed
in the street wheels and horseshoes and the neighing of horses.

It was the diligence of the mail. Partenia ran to awaken Ingomar, and almost simultaneously
the gallant conductor appeared to me, calling me by name and invited
me to drink a mysterious bottle she carried.

Quickly watered the horses, he finished his task the driver and leave
of Partenia, I took my place in the diligence.

I was then deeply asleep to dream I visited Partenia and Ingomar,
and was feted with cake at their discretion, until the next morning
I woke up in Sacramento.

I could not say if this was a dream, but never witnessed the drama or hear the sentence referring
to two noble souls ... without thinking of Wingdam caterers.

CALAVERAS MORENO

Just arrived Wingdam diligence.

The courteous and polite conversation and the absence of cigarette
smoke and boot heels in the windows of the carriage, indicated clearly
that it housed a woman in her interior.

And care and composure that displayed the loafers who stood before the windows, as inveterate habit,
arranging hats and ties, also indicated the woman was beautiful, all of which watched from
the bench, Mr. James Melin, smiling philosophical. In truth, it was not to despise the sex,
but he acknowledged in an element misleading, separated man whose pursuit of no less fickle
blandishments of poker [10] in which we can say that Don James Melin was accomplished teacher.

So,
when he placed his narrow boot on the wheel to get off, not even glanced toward the door where
a veil fluttering green but up and down haraganeó neglect and indifference that tone, which is perhaps
the feature of class. His grave clothes and had a quiet continent marked contrast with noisy
feverish restlessness and excitement of the other passengers, and
I'm still convinced that same Master, graduated from Harvard, with
his careless dress and exuberant vitality, her long speeches about
the disorder and barbarism and his mouth full of biscuits and cheese,
represented a poor role alongside this lonely calculator lots, with
his pale face and Greek their ladylike restraint.

The overseer was heard the cry: "The car, gentlemen," and Mr. Melin came to take his place. He was
already standing on the wheel and face the run-level window when his eyes suddenly found themselves
with others who seemed the most beautiful in the world. He got out again quietly addressed
a few words to one of the passengers, and making him a seat change,
quietly took his unparalleled inside, for Don James not tolerate that
his philosophy to hinder the prompt and decisive action is always
appropriate.

I believe that this eruption of James breathed a reservation in the other passengers, particularly
in those who sought to become more pleasing to the fair sex. Immediately one of them lady leaned
veil, and apparently the only reported an epithet of the profession Don James. If Don James heard
and whether the respondent recognized a distinguished lawyer, to which, a few nights before, had won
several thousand dollars, I could not say for sure for his impassive face revealed no hint
of it. His dark eyes, coldly observers turned to indifference, from the gentleman run on forensic
and rested for Finally, on the most enjoyable features of your neighbor. The dose of stoicism
Indian attributed to him as inheritance from their maternal ancestors, Prestol invaluable
services until the grinding wheels spun on the gravel of the river at the ford Scott, and diligence
stopped at the lunch, at the International Hotel. The distinguished jurist and a deputy of the camera
jumped down and stood by the door ready to help the deity in its descent, while Col. Estrella
Siskyon, loaded with his umbrella and hand bag. This multiplicity of gallantry was confusion
and momentary delay. James Melin then quietly opened the door opposite diligence, took her
hand to the lady, with that decision and that a sex uncertain security and insecure knows admire,
and in an instant descendiola to the ground. Yuba-Bill, the coachman, from the sidewalk where
he was, could not suppress a laugh.

- Be careful with that baggage, colonel - said the driver affected application, following with
the view of Col. Estrella, who walked sadly to the rear of the triumphant
procession.

Don James did not stop to eat. His horse was waiting and all its trappings.

Riding quickly climbed the sandy shore and disappeared into the dusty perspective Wingdam Road
and hurried to get away from it a disagreeable idea. The humble people inhabiting the dusty huts
near the road, he covered his eyes with his hands to look at him and followed him with his eyes,
recognizing the man for his horse, preguntábanse what would happen to the Comanche James to
take such rapid career.

However, this interest focused primarily on the horse, which had nothing in particular in
a neighborhood where race mare covered by the French judge Pitt to escape from Calaveras eclipsed
all interest for the term fatal character so worthy and meritorious.

Don Jacobo Realizing sweat that bathed the sides of his gray horse, restrained, finally, its speed,
and introducing the animal on a trail that served as a shortcut, took a trot, leaving the
reins hanging carelessly from his hands. As he advanced the road varies the appearance of the
landscape, becoming more colorful. Descubríanse by between clearings in the groves of pines
and sycamores, some crude culture assays, a strain flowering climbing the door of a hut and a woman
cradled her child under the roses carpeted another rustic hut. A few feet away, Don James reached
some children with bare legs, stirred the waters of the stream beneath the willows, and familiarized
so with them, thanks to its peculiar speech, which were quite daring for subírsele by the horse's
legs to the chair, and had at last that affect an overly expensive fierce and get out leaving
behind some coins when he wanted to get rid of them. Well into and in dense forests, where there
was no trace of room, began to sing, modulating a tenor voice of singular sweetness and pattus
so soft and tender, that pitirrojos and suckers had stopped to listen to their notes. The voice
of Don James was not a cultivated voice. The theme of his song, love wandering black workers taken
had a something touching and intimate expression of a feeling penetrated indefinable. It was
curious spectacle, indeed, of this thug with a deck in his pocket and a revolver his belt,
sending front yes, through the thick woods, his voice soft moans on the 'Tomb of Nelly "in
a way that would tear his eyes swept over of a sensitive spirit. A hawk that had just caught devour
her victim, was set in James Melin with surprise because he had probably recognize some degree of
kinship, while the superiority of men, because with a higher capacity
for prey he does not sing songs was possible.

Don James back on the road, started up again quickly.

Crumbling wall pieces, arid slopes, tree trunks that happened to forests and gullies, indicating
the proximity of man. Rose to view a bell: he already reached the end of their journey. Shortly
after the footsteps resounded from his horse by a narrow street that was lost at the foot
of the hill, in a chaotic ruin ditches and aqueducts, and dismounted before the gilded windows
of a regal bar. After crossing the long Magnolia Hall ship, pushed a screen, entered a dark passage,
opened with key master a door, and found in a room dimly lit, whose furniture, though elegant and
price for the town, showed signs of neglect. The center console was cover discs or patches, which
had not entered into the original design, embroidered chairs, faded by time, and the green
velvet sofa on which he dropped Don James were stained by the red clay road. Don James, in
his cage, and did not sing, and lying motionless on his head looked in garish painting of a nymph
or goddess mythology. Perhaps the first time, it occurred that he
had never seen a woman Similarly, if I saw that probably will not
fall for it