 This seems
an office like that of Madrid where people go to charge and runs away. The cathedral is beautiful
as always, but not found by some the majesty of worship the Lord. So does the choirmaster,
indignant to see that in large only parties took seats in the middle of half a dozen chorus
of musicians. Young people living in the Claverias not love our cousins ??and complains about
how short they are salaries, regardless of the time enduring religion. If this continues, I do
not miss see this bird and others as villains like him playing hopscotch on the cruise ... God forgive
me!

And the simple wooden wand waved scandalized his words. He then continued:

- This gentleman, here you see, is not happy with their condition, and that which, being almost
a kid, took the position that his poor father could not get up to thirty years. Want be a bullfighter,
and even a Sunday ventured out in a bullfight in the Plaza de Toledo. His disheveled mother came
down like a Magdalene to tell me everything, and I, thinking that his father had dead and I belonged
to their times, wait for the Lord when throwing them back from the square handsome, and tack
on the stairs of the tower to his room with the same stick stick that I served in the cathedral.
He will tell you if I have the strong hand when I get angry .... Virgin the tabernacle! A Moon
for the Holy Metropolitan Church got a bullfighter! Little laughed canons and to the cardinal,
as I have said, to hear the case! A benefit of good humor dubbed him since then Tato, and so
everyone calls him at home.

Did you see, brother, what provides the family honor this rascal ...?

The intended Silentiary overwhelm your look at Tato, but he smiled, unimpressed much with the
words of his uncle.

- And do not think, Gabriel - continued - that this guy is missing a piece of bread and why makes
such nonsense. Despite his poor head, is from twenty years the position of dogcatcher of the
holy cathedral, which can only be reached in better times came after many years and good handles.
Cobra realitas its six newspapers, and as the church is loose, can teach the curious to outsiders.
With the tips that fall is better than me. Foreigners who visit the cathedral, excommunicated
people looking at us like monkeys rare and we are all curious and worthy of laughter, set in
it. The English will wonder if it is toreador, and he needs to do more ...! Seeing that give
the taste, loose the bag of lies (because nobody liar leg check above) and count runs great
bearing given in Toledo and beyond, the bulls is dead ... and those England simpletons take
note on their albums, and even some blonde bigeye drawn from stroke the head of this swindling.
For him what matters is that you believe the lies and finally we long the peseta, it matters
little that these heretics are to their land being disseminated in the Cathedral of Toledo,
in the Metropolitan Church of Spain, employees are bullfighters and help religious ceremonies
between run and run. Total earning more money I, and despite this, it is believed postponed in office
... A beautiful job! Marching in the great processions in front of everyone, with great breadth
of the Primate, with a fork red velvet lined to hold if you fall, and wearing a brocade gown
scarlet as a cardinal! So it seems in that suit, according to the choirmaster, who knows much
about such things, a certain tooth or do not know how, living in
Italy for centuries and went to hell, writing his journey in verse.

Steps sounded on a narrow spiral staircase, punching the wall, connected the welcome to the upper
floor.

- It Don Luis - said Wooden Staff -. Going to say his Mass in the chapel of the Tabernacle,
and then the chorus.
Gabriel got up from the couch to greet the priest. It was small and
weak constitution, highlighting it from the first glance the disparity
between the ailing body and the enormous head. The front, curved and
outgoing with his weight seemed to crush factions brown, irregular,
disrupted by the imprint of smallpox