 In one of the towers (which is complete) contains State
archives, and inside the temple are quite a few beauties of sculpture and some historical curiosities.
From the top of the deck (to 47 met. Above the floor of the temple), dominated by the belfry
or watchtower, it provides one of the most beautiful landscapes of Switzerland.

In the lower part of the city lies the town hall, not far from her Hospital cantonal buildings
but non-art major. Lausanne is notable for its many educational institutions, charities, etc.,
and between the former is worthy of attention the college in academics. It contains about
50,000 volumes in two libraries (One township and the other students), excellent physical cabinet,
the cantonal museum (Well stocked and orderly), normal school, etc. As shown, the picturesque Lausanne,
whose very nice people are distinguished by their morality and kindness, it is well worth the
capital of one of the most prosperous and esteemed states of the Confederation, which can appear
as a model in Europe.

       * * * * *

From Lausanne to Iverdun newly constructed rail plays in four or five small locations or stations without
any interest, but tour amid picturesque countryside and smiling (cutting the forests of Jorat)
which looks very pleasant few hours of way. It is a rugged country by many small hills and gentle
slopes, which determine a sequence llanuritas whimsical and full of vigor valleys, villages
orchards, forest plantations and productive variety, at the bottom of very funny stand the peculiar
style country homes in Switzerland.

Is easy to see that the welfare queen in these fields, to repair the sweet and happy face of peasants,
cleanliness and property of their dresses, the innocent beauty of women, somewhat ruddy robustness
of children, order and play room, and dedication that are cultivated land. And these people, really
simple, have nothing rustic HOWEVER: read, write and calculate, in general, understand their
rights and duties civil and political rights, and have that sense of his personality that comes
from freedom, independent work and the simple and austere practices of the reformed religion.
Within these populations consuming the priest is a brother, a true shepherd, because it does
not dominate or exploit the conscience, is solid instruction, live modestly, without political
aspirations, or a canon or a bishop, is a parent, and as such their interests are in perfect harmony
with those of citizens.

Iverdun delay on the right bank and a small island on the globe, at very short distance the mouth
of the small river on Lake Neuchâtel and the end of a fertile, well cultivated plain. This city
has gained considerable increase a few years here, because of A railway connects it to Lausanne,
Morges and Geneva, which was just flirting with another tour there in direction to Solera Neuchâtel
and Basel. As the creek that forms the Orb is the port of the steamers and sailing or towing boats
plying the lake, movement Iverdun trade is considerable. It is composed of three major city
streets parallel in the main, and is only notable for its structure to the odd shapes and
yellowing of the houses, and a feudal castle flanked on all four corners by towers of severe
aspect.

Iverdun is surrounded by beautiful trees and walks, and so small as it is (with only 3,800 inhabitants)
is distinguished by the possession of a public library, school, hospital, several schools and
houses of education and various charitable institutions and economy. In Switzerland there is no
city, however small, that does not have - as the best tests of civilization, fraternity and
interest in public affairs - these elements: one or more public libraries museum more or less
stocked and orderly, savings, college, many schools, hospital and hospice. In view of this
is easy to understand why the Swiss people is one of the most honest, free and informed they
are known, relatively to the narrowness of their territory full of
obstacles, in much uninhabitable and trapped between mountains in
central Europe.

Iverdun piously preserved the memory of the famous Pestalozzi, founder of the teaching method most
popular primary and fruitful, very poor man (as almost all the major benefactors) whose life
was a series of acts of devotion for the sake of the ignorant and
helpless children.

It was in this humble city where Pestalozzi tried and tested over many years of excellence of
his method, and there still exists a house of education led by one of his disciples.

Iverdun embarked on board a steamer to sail the beautiful lake to Neuchâtel. Its light green waves
are beautiful, but not comparable with those of Geneva. The bank NE or right side is sad and dreary,
and its steep cliffs and high, of stratification limestone, which the waves strike violently,
to reign is almost solitude, because ports are rare and the population sparse. But the OS side aspect
of the bank and the hills and surrounding mountains is picturesque and lively. Tour there Railroad
Neuchâtel whose construction has required many expensive stretches of mine works in the rock, or leveling
between waves of the lake. From the gravelly beaches the terrain rises on inclined planes and
very undulating, entirely covered with vineyards, small and graceful as scattered populations [17]
located on the shore, and then rising in a succession of more or less steep hills and rocky, going
to be confused with the mountains of Jura, which buttresses lowest temper and down to the lake
itself by its deep gullies throwing some streams.

These mountains are look infinitely less majestic than the Alps,
with their smiling rather tiny shapes and varied vegetation.

[17] The most notable is the town of Grandson, belongs to Vaud, which has 1,500 inhabitants.

Lake
Neuchâtel (Neuchâtel-See in German) gives banks to four surrounding counties: Vaud, Neuchâtel,
Bern and Fribourg, measuring 27 kilometers long from south to north,
by 6 width, and contains 242 square kilometers area.

       Its depth is considerable, but does not exceed 150 feet, and is notable
for its frequent and violent storms, quite dangerous for navigation
because they are almost always sudden and ports without shelter.

* * * * *

Before talking about the city of Neuchâtel, one of the most graceful in Switzerland (although almost
all delay on the banks of lakes or rivers, in very picturesque), summarize the most important
ideas related to Canton or State. The territory extends Neuchâtel in lower region about two-thirds
of the western shore, and along the left bank Thiele River, which is the drain of that, covering
a small portion of the bank also neighboring western Lake Biel (Bienne), which is somewhat reduced
reproduction of Neuchâtel. Of the remainder, Canton extends over the three parallel chains of
the Jura, and although it contains some narrow mountain valleys is essentially intermediate. Part
limits to O. with France, S. the canton of Vaud, the N. with Berne and E. has the lake through
respect of the canton of Fribourg. Its greatest length is 43 kilometers, mostly latitude 20, and
contains in its area 7.678 square kilometers. The population of Canton reached in 1860 to 87.847
inhabitants, including about 15,000 other Swiss cantons and over 3,000 foreigners, mostly French.
Equal language and religion (French Reformed) makes Neuchâtel, Vaud and Geneva to form a group of
people completely analogous. In all three fully dominates the radical democratic institutions,
the industry is homogeneous in three of the main branches (manufacture of watches, wine production
and timber cutting) and customs and the character and spirit of the people make them very
similar. In fact could be defined to Geneva, and Neuchâteleses Vaudenses, calling: French serious.
If the reformed religion has inspired them the spirit of personal
independence and belief reasoned and thorough, the Democratic Republic
strengthened in the love of freedom and the horror of formal mentoring.

The

history of the canton of Neuchâtel (Castillo-new, name derived from its feudal origin) is also
similar to that of Geneva and Vaud, as to the Franks, the former kingdom of the second Burgundy,
struggles with the counts of Savoy and the Bernese, etc. By virtue of family links of the former
rulers of Neuchâtel and Valengin, the French house of Orléans-Longueville owned the country
as their own until the early eighteenth century. Extinct then that family, many suitors presented
themselves, and between the people Neuchâtel (since then neither could live without a master)
had the wisdom to choose the most distant, and therefore the less, awesome: King of Prussia,
Frederick I. This dynasty ruled the principality gently to the beginning of this century, which
had to cede to the French Empire. Napoleon, among other skills that had the very famous and
give states and peoples boxes snuff, ordered the country (in 1805) to constitute a heritage
Marshal Berthier. The treaty of 1814 gave him Neuchâtel-Valengin a mixed, making it into the
Confederation Swiss Canton as a State or free, and returning it in its internal government to the king
of Prussia. From that time until 1848 enjoyed a very liberal constitution and beneficial, but the
interest Independence the people crawled Neuchâtel to the general revolution of that year, not without
than before, in 1831, an insurrection had broken out which was suppressed by the Prussians.

The town was given in 48 one or radical democratic constitution, and though the King of Prussia continued
Prince of Neuchâtel calling and asking for their alleged rights (annulled by the same people
that they were granted in 1707) the independence of Canton was effective and had made to be. In
1857 he raised a serious diplomatic issue that threatened war production between Prussia and
Switzerland, but the great powers intervened, France offered its mediation, and though the King
of Prussia retained its empty title of "Prince of Neuchâtel," as others called "kings of Jerusalem,"
the absolute autonomy of Canton, as a federal state, was recognized. The people voted directly by the
Constitution in 1858, and this applies in the country to the satisfaction of its inhabitants.

According
to her the people are sovereign, and governs itself in the business
community and representative system in general Canton, following similar
rules to those of Geneva and Vaud.

All citizens are working for government jobs, are subject to service military and support the
contributions proportional equality. The Constitution abolished ancient royalty of feudal lords,
without prejudice to the landowners and the titles, privileges and aristocratic distinctions.
All citizens are equal before the law and the Constitution guarantees absolute freedom of religion
and worship, the right of petition, association, and free use of weapons facility in Canton,
freedom of the press and individual security, the home, correspondence and property inviolable.

*
* * * *

The canton of Neuchâtel is essentially manufacturer, in terms of their
manufacture is the most valuable in the world, relative to its population
and territory.

       In fact, Canton manufactured at its three main centers, annually,
about 300,000 gold watches, silver, steel, etc., and a very large
number of clocks, timers and other similar instruments and music,
physics and mathematics.

It has also numerous paper mills, cotton fabrics printed, cutlery, iron and copper, lace, gloves
and other items of hosiery. The watchmaking industry alone (introduced in the country in the
seventeenth century) employs nearly 11,000 workers. The small town of Chaux-de-Fonds alone produces
more than 250,000 watches, the rest is made in Le Locle and Neuchâtel.

Immediately after the manufacture of significant value contained in the products of the vineyards (wine
very soft white and estimated) of timber extraction in the extensive forests Mountains (pine, fir,
beech and oak), the very substantial cattle breeding in the prairies natural, and the cultivation
of cereals, fruit trees, etc. Trade was active, and Canton not only
has the navigation of the lakes and good roads, but maintains communications
towards France and other counties by four railroads.

The main centers of Canton, as I mentioned, are: Neuchâtel, the capital, which has about 10.300 inhabitants
- has its focus city where the small aristocratic or conservative party; Chaux-de-Fonds, with 14.500
(beautiful town that is the center of radicalism and the press Active Canton, and holding more
extensive relations with France) and Locle, which has 8.800 inhabitants.

Thus, three locations nomas meet 38% of the cantonal population made produced in greater or lesser
extent in all States manufacturers or vendors, where it is inevitable concentration of large masses
of workers, especially when land are scarce or are in few hands. The height of these three
cities is very different: thus, Neuchâtel on sea level is 480 meters at its highest, while Locle
and Chaux-de-Fonds, located in the mountainous region, are respectively 921 and 1.000 meters
elevation.

Locle mainly manufactures clocks and lace. Chaux-de-Fonds is a city of considerable movement
and that often has been the asylum, as Geneva, the French banned. There constantly hear the sound
of a thousand hammers and everything is active in the workshops and forges. Perhaps their further
progress and rare perfection and promptness depend mainly on manufacturing
the division of labor, brought there to its ultimate consequences.

Each worker works in a single operation, more or less straightforward, so that a pendulum or
clock represents the Contest hundreds of workers. They work in their homes for work, to shop
or bakery own, without neglecting their families and making this contest. Independence as obvious
as personal morality. And HOWEVER of independence and division, as a clock is composed of so many
pieces, it provides solidarity complication or community of interests of all workers. Perhaps
one of these watches is the best demonstration of the profound truth of the harmony of things
and societies, which reconciles and to coexist perfectly the personality of man and social solidarity,
wherever freedom allows and encourages the full action of this law of nature.

In fact, this situation results in Chaux-de-Fonds this remarkable fact: that in any case an
industrial or commercial crisis also affects all employers and workers, making common misfortune,
as in the boom years the benefit is common. Thus capital can not give the bill to pay, or vice versa,
and their relations are of interest legitimate based on free competition and the independence
and dignity of work.

Is this the case to indicate a feature of many of the cantons, or almost all Swiss people, offering
medium to soften the situation of workers in times of crisis. In Switzerland the political organization
has followed the logical and natural movement of the laws preside over the social conglomeration,
- very unlike France and other nations where State, taking it all,
has the district (the reality) a purely fictional administrative,
and the nation a cause rather than an effect.

In Switzerland, the community or district is only the foundation of political society, is society
itself. Districts, enjoy autonomy primitive and natural, have been merged to become stronger, forming
The canton or state, not to limit or abdicate its own vitality. The cantons, after many years
and even centuries of full sovereignty by aligning their interests from the point of view of
nationality, have confederated to strengthen and simplify their relationships, ensuring solidarity
and gain some respect as a power. But in reality the life of citizens Swiss is in the community
district. This is where he feels truly sovereign (in part respective), adhered to the society
for rights, duties and interests, and active member of a fellowship.

The political rights and duties relating to the Confederation are common throughout her without
distinction of home, but the Swiss district in Zurich, Bern or Geneva, but linked to that of Chaux-de-Fonds
for those links, it is really strange to neuchâtelesa community, while not accepting local commitment.
The neighboring community there is much more than the Confederate citizen because the neighbors
are truly a family. Everyone has the duty of the residence ordinary, to serve the district
in a way, constantly contribute to the common fund relief or mutual
insurers.
