 Each step was reason to engage
the attention of his enthusiastic friend, and telling the festoons of bonuses pending or white
bells of all the bushes on the banks of reeds, and Guines of reeds, which compared with the
egrets of countless martial warriors herding, gently rocked by the gentle breeze of the morning
prayer groups that Tomeguin low rumble, like a trailing wind and large crowds, followed by
some distance the direction of travelers, brushing with the herbs and then disappeared between
the logs of reeds or savanna lively late flight, which came with a crash in the thicket and
lighting with great difficulty on the first leaf of cane it faced in its heedless leakage,
or the elusive white heron made his way through the branches of coastal oak and with the long
neck retreated to the back and feet still dangling in his flight course the stream, or the
flock of parrots riots covering the wild orange and only they looked when they clung to the
golden fruit to extract the seed, or the hawk, in Finally, Cuba eagle, which gave sharp cries
and screams as she hovered above more affected palms, between earth and sky.

Finally, after ten o'clock in the morning, travelers crossed the reeds
of wit Valvanera, in view of their large factories.

Two miles later came to town Join bankruptcy. Here are divided into two the way they had, one that
twisted the west and was the Back Down the road, and the other, the narrow, which served as
input to refineries sugar, already established in this region of the coast. This took our travelers.
In passes through the town several people recognized and greeted with friendly respect for Leonardo
Gamboa.

Below the country presented itself as rough, uneven and hilly as the previous route, but The tree
was more lush and lusty, almost primitive, and noisy streams lined ground and clean running water
to be lost at the bottom of the bay of Mariel, or in the open sea North. After half an hour's
walk below the forest, where no sunlight penetrated, were seen in a sugar cane fields on the
steep slope of a hill, bounded by a fence Paperback made of segments, which kept horizontal strips
of wood or stakes fork kneeling on the ground and tied together at intervals, for safety, with a vine
that, when green, is quite flexible and elastic, known in the Tour Down with the name colorado
vulgar, Bauchinis heterophylla.

After that, continuing short, rough parallel to this close, at which time they won travelers
the height of the hill, were offered the full extent and greatness of cane fields and there
in the middle of the table, the group changed its factories, crowning other more plain and
hill wider base. That was the genius of a barrel, and Leonardo Gamboa, who served as guide, he
showed his friends with a sense of pride. To It had every reason, not only by the dollar value
representing the estate, and social considerations are kept to their owners, but also for the
beautiful picture and picturesque of the whole, provided a good distance, effectively concealing
spots and spots inherent in almost all the works, human and divine.

The road where passengers were boarding up there was called to the Beach because it served the
transportation of sugars to the town of Mariel, from which were shipped and led in schooners to
market in La Habana. Crossed the hill by its height and had established talanquera it no less a rustic
fence, it was reduced to a few yards in the rough, tucked their heads into the holes of two
parallel rails. Leaning against the fence, and in his meeting with the talanquera, stood a
cabin or hut of the ground rod or gabled, so droopy that the roof was composed of whole leaves
of the palm outstretched side or sides, with the tips resting on the ground.

Leonardo came forward to see why he was not in his job and opened the black watchman the talanquera.
To this end, he planted his horse before the only entrance to the hut, and tilting the body, tried
to register the interior. Useless work: the door was too narrow or mouth and low, and two feet
beyond the threshold could not penetrate human eyes, not by the living daylight out, but because
of the dense cloud of smoke from burning wood inside and not had other means of escape than
that.

- I do not see anything and I doubt there is a living soul in the
hut, Gamboa said talking with the ladies the chitin, standing in the
road.

Damn black!

- Maybe you sleep, "said Isabel.

- If not the sleep of death, "said Gamboa, I swear I did not save
someone from a face down.

- What is it?

Meneses said. How talanquera open? I will open and not lose the marriage so.

- You will not do so, Leonardo replied angrily. I do not agree.

- Well, his voice suggested Isabel Argentina and sweet.

Open the coachman, the horses are tired tired to run away.

Leocadio, Get down.

- No, no, Isabella, Leonardo said, more and more angry. I can not agree on that, I should not
spoil. If the watchman opens talanquera alive, that for that and
for more I have been there.

His watch and added immediately:

- They have already struck twelve, at which time the black loose to
eat.

If we had arrived here a little earlier, we would have heard the bell of the mill. Bet that
the Taita watchman has gotten into the reeds to meet with some of his ships. For the living
God pay! Nothing, not anywhere. Cayman! Cayman!, Cried the whole stream.

The mountains around were the only ones who gave back the echo of their voices shaking continued,
deep, sinister, and then started to bark a bulldog puppy in the hut. There is the watchman, he
thought the young man, and does not sleep for the trouble of opening the talanquera. I will go out
kicking, added high, taking a punch in the pommel. Dismounted without delay and went into the
hut, keeping the horse by the bridle.

Too bad these words rang in my ears those oaths of Elizabeth modest, even when not to embarrass
your friend or irritate more against the poor slave, was saved from represent the absurdity and even
the risk of their final purpose, if it was hidden on purpose to have hidden a fellow in the hut
or any other cause.

Fortunately, none of that happened. At that moment the ladies from the carriage, and coachman
Meneses horse heard the sound of branches in the nearby forest, agitated by a person or animal
made his way with some difficulty, and then appeared on the shore a shabby old black, a woolen
cap on his head, a long stick in his hand knotted, which served as support perhaps not kiss the
ground with his forehead, as his body made an arch by age, for the work or the inveterate habit
of living in houses with low ceilings. He perceived travelers out of the woods just because
time stopped for a party to indecisive should take, and in the tall grass releasing something that glittered
in the sun's rays, and seemed bottle or other container of the sort, then continued walking
right into the carriage by the opposite the hut.

This fortuitous circumstance saved the first match of the wrath of
his master, who, as soon left the hut, he recognized from a distance
and fell on him gallop.

But while mounted his horse and saved the distance that separated him from his attempted victim
had time to unconsciously it is put under the ladies.

It is likely that the unfortunate slave had no news that people were expected at the mill, or
come them came by guiding his young master. Right hand does not know
either.

But note that was coming at full speed, and cried: - Ah, you dog! Now I see!, Could not unknown
or stop his knees at the foot of the horse, who, contents and all, he threw boat ride to the
breast only.

The scare of the ladies was great. Rosa made an exclamation of horror,
Dona Juana repeated: - Jesus!

Jesus! and Isabel medium was incorporated into the seat, pulled out of the carriage arm and said
more angry than frightened - not kill him, Leonardo!

- Thank Vds. it that are ahead, "said Leonardo, otherwise I think he killed. I feel so angry
at him.

- Ah, my suamito!, Said the old man to be incorporating work again knees, as humble sinner in the
presence of his angry judge.

- Where were you, dog witch? asked the young man, and without waiting for the answer continued asking
or saying, "What were you doing in the bush? Why were not you at your hut? What you had gone to swap
for tavern liquor with the scraping of the people that steal in the mill? Yes, yes. I swear.

-
No, my suamito, but no, sumercé! Cayman Rapaura not steal! Cayman aguaurdiente not drink!

- Shut up, you old dog! Walk, run to open the talanquera. Do not run yet? Do not you run? The
Mayoral and you'll stir up a little leather. Go!

Fly! ... and tried to hit (Fortunately without hitting) a kick in the head from the horse.

Seemed
to be the watchman man over sixty years of age. He's graying at least head, and even the little
beard that covered his upper lip, a sure sign of aging in people of his race. A disproportionately
long arms and bony, twitching fingers linked, as if with leprosy, eyes sullen boys and sad, sadder
than ever, when talanquera after open, glanced at the ladies of chitin and appeared to beg
protect him from the wrath of his master.

After the first moment of irritation and blindness, realized he had been too passionate and quite
rude in front of women who, besides being under its protection, would enjoy their hospitality
at the mill. The horse had been more generous than he since, being able to not hit the slave
when he found him lying in his path. Had Gamboa ashamed of his behavior, but very proud to
recognize his fault and amend it with openness demanded by the case, merely to refer the main
features of life watchman, of course, slandering of way.

- Not included DVDs, said that the Taita Cayman is as it seems, an old helpless and meek or
loyal and humble slave. Vds. must know that the nickname has not it have been smoke with straw
is the most cunning, evil, cunning trimmed there, nor so ignorant does not practice certain
arts, which give important consideration among his people. Passes witch and become invisible
when it suits or is in danger. Build idols charms have magical properties in certain cases.
Nobody would see, hear or understand, and yet, day and night no one and nothing escapes him,
and know, like the alligator, play possum to better secure the dam.

The youth has been spent on the mountain fled and his repeated escapes
runaway has visited all of Cuzco and made friends with Maroons most
famous Vuelta Abajo.

It is now too old for such jogging, and considered to have been one of the founders of La Tinaja,
the only that survives of the first poles knocked down here, Mom
had him put the watchman, and keeps him in that position against the
wishes of employees who know their history and bad habits.

When you want or should not beaten the dog guard or finer. Can said to be free: raising chickens,
fat every year one or two pigs to sell, and money buried somewhere, and has a mare, which
may turn at night to the boundaries of the property.

But as I say, is very cunning and evil and I'd bet any thing that
was not far from the hut and its position without any intentional
object and failed to look.

     For the cane is seen with his
      fellow wits, for the mount only with Maroons or the bartenders of
the people to change snuff sugar, brandy or other anything like that.

-
That must be, Leonardo, Rosa began by saying, as I thought it brought
a ...

The aunt and sister, plus she advised, would not let her finish
the sentence, and no one else spoke in the rest of the road.

         

Between one and two in the afternoon, under a blazing sun's reflected rays whose leaves cane if
they were polished swords, passengers were cleared in the big house The Tinaja housing.

CHAPTER IV

Most black of slavery is not black.

JOSE DE LA LUZ Y CABALLERO

Under more than one farm concept was a superb wit The Tinaja, qualifier was well deserved for
his long and lush fields of sugar cane-honey, for the three hundred or more arms to cultivate,
for his great drove of oxen, and his vast rolling, his steam up twenty-five horses of force,
newly imported from North America, the cost of twenty and many thousand dollars, excluding the
horizontal mill, also new and there were armed cost half of that sum.

The boiler house or wit was as strong as vast, almost entirely exempt building, whose armor was
made up of pairs logs, supported by heavy sills and these pillars,
those pitchforks in the country, without squaring no more polish and
that he could give to zuela Biscayan the carpenter-architect hired
by the farm for such work.

Had stunning and rustic air that seemed to claim his destiny. Under her roof tiles red were
entertained the mill, the steam train and develop the Jamaican sugar, mounted on three ovens or fornallas.
Were not at the same level all these equipment: the boiler was several feet lower, and to move from one
department to another had to descend two broad stone steps, flanking the level of mill and machine
steam. This was done so for it to have an easy drop the juice, which on leaving the running
masses by a wooden trough to trough, here called Mansehra, where something was cleaned and followed
the pan or pot to receive the first boil.

Parallel with this building was another big and more down, shut down by its sides with masonry
walls and a single entrance, facing the boiler mentioned. This was the house for draining and
drying of sugar. In other woodwork were separated, blacksmithing, nursing and the house can be called
maternity rooms overseer, the stockman, carpenter, foreman and master
of sugar, who is temporarily residing also wit.

To the engineer, whose office at that time played a young American, had built a temporary room with cedar
boards, near the machine steam only warm place in that ugly old house. Followed later formed a
group, over two hundred thatched cottages or huts, with their pens and chicken coops attached
to the abode of the three hundred slaves, or endowment of wit. The other houses exempt, namely:
those of bagasse, beat the mud to the purification of sugar and other less important were erected
in the space mediator between the boiler and drain.

The former plant, known as the quintessential "housing" contained in trapezoid parallelogram,
sitting on the gentle slope of a hill, the difference of level was sought to remedy raising the
floor by the front. Was a single body with thick masonry factory hollow red tile roof, wide porch,
square room in the middle, flanked on both sides by two bays of rooms, corridors run by the
interior, rectangular patio in the center, enclosed by a high wall with casement windows, and a cover
on the canvas the fund, which closed with a lock and lock and was
used for internal communication the servants of the house.

In the courtyard grew many flowers, orange trees, fig and vines that did not contribute little to
its greenery and the freshness of dark rooms, although to break the reflection of sunlight in midday
points, had made curtains All burlap around those passages. As cautioned under the porch, to
its elevations and breadth, was more exposed to the ravages of wind and the effects nasty
solar reflection in the vast and desolate batey.

From the top of the steps of the portico was recorded from one extreme
to another the boiler house front, the more drain on the right, but
only on the side of the drawers to dry sugar, the barracks of blacks
or the stockade that enclosed its rustic rooms; In short, most of
which comprised the vast population of wit, the fields of cane to
the west, the straw roofs of the houses of pasture, and beyond that
a huge palm, a bend of the river and then altered and primitive jungle,
which was like the dark background this varied table setting.

Cosa noon on December 24, 1830, sprawled in comfortable chairs of cowhide they were the masters
of ingenuity in red cowhide easy chairs, were the masters The Tinaja wit, along with several others,
sheltered from solar reflection, after canvas curtains. Almost all the men, Don Candido Valdez,
pastor of Bankruptcy Axe Captain of the party and the doctor smoking snuff, Dona Rosa, the
wife of the captain before, women's and sister's mayoral ladies paddock and Gamboa, ate some candy
canes land, others, orange guava China and Peru, etc., the products they stay wit. Roamed around
our famous of Havana: Tirso, Aponte, Dolores, along with another black who had come by sea, and
two or three more of the endowment of wit, Creole and that they had better look for domestic service,
making all useful.

In the ladies Gamboa, Carmen and Adela not heated seat, biting a piece of guava or orange and then
undertook long walks, linked hands, from one extreme to another the porch, with obvious signs
of impatience at the delay, in his view, the friendly Alquízar. Adela in particular, every
time he touched the corner of the south, stood a song canvas curtain and cast an anxious glance
across the front master guardarraya until interception on the road from the beach. Finally, shortly
after one o'clock in the afternoon, was heard in the distance sound
of carriage wheels and the sudden departure of several horses; and
Adela, seeing nothing yet, said cheerfully: - There they are!

Do not be fooled this time. A little more than reached the foot of the steps of the portico
ladies Ilincheta in his carriage, which, along with their passengers, horses and riders came
covered with red dust of the earth. Useless would stop and describe point about the various scenes
of the meeting of both families in the midst of the solitude of the Vuelta Abajo. More than
one reason was so that at least some of those present, that mirasen moment as a real event
worthy of note. It happens also that young people, and also Sometimes older people, when they
meet at a field site with the intention to pass only few days in open and friendly society, far from
the places where they have been accustomed to living and have fun, feel strongly attracted,
if friends are and express it more, if relatives are persuaded that
closer ties together, if lovers, ah, love seems eternal the joy of
loving, heavenly.

Women narrowed sharply between the arms. Adela cried with joy when
tightening among his Elizabeth, for whom he had an extraordinary passion.
For it was the most modest and loving women