 They were then
out two by two young doctors, going to be at the edge of the table in front the giant. Many
of them wore glasses decrease to examine further. Others the most handsome and good-looking, laughed
and pushed his elbow, looking at the simple eyes Gillespie's face and making hidden assumptions
about their enormities, which caused the scandal and the protests of their partners more serious
and virtuous.

Appeared at last litter Father of Teachers, supported by eight young university, sweaty panting
after this climb in a spiral. It opened the door of the box Momar laptop came with its four
tasseled cap and gown long tail, which hastened to hold two teacher
trainees.

Progress was solemnly on the table, and behind his steps all the accompanying final Bass doctors,
who did not hide the wrinkles and gray hairs on their faces matronly.

The teacher ran to Flimnap placed in the center of the table, a chair, which was the same he had taken
to give the giant his history lesson. The high character sat on it, taking aside the obsequious
translator.

All academic procession remained behind rigid and in profound silence, waiting for it to sound authoritative
voice of the teacher of teachers. So the doctors stopped their laughter unruly youth and their
daring comments Momar sit.

This was an eye to the lens provided by Flimnap, and seeing about the face of giant reduced almost
to the proportions of a being from the same species, could not repress
a movement surprise.

Was watching him with a thoughtful expression, which revealed intense work mental. At last he murmured,
turning to Flimnap, but his gaze away from giant

- Who do you think, Professor? ... I've seen that face somewhere .... I can not remember exactly,
but it is absolutely equal to one I have seen many times .... Who
will?

Flimnap murmured vague words to excuse their ignorance.

Sorry can not help his illustrious boss in this work of memory. But though his voice was calm
and quiet her gesture, the concern was running through his body waves nerve at various temperatures.
He knew perfectly well Who is it like the gentleman giant, but was
careful not to reveal the Father of the Masters.

For his part, Gillespie was so impressed as the translator. Seeing the powerful visitor was
a glass with an eye to know better, he believed the case do the same,
and courteous reciprocity.

It took the great circle of glass on the table, and place it in one eye was so overwhelmed, that
is very close to that fall hard and transparent as a missile, killing
several doctors of courtship.

- I must be dreaming - he said the
engineer -.

This can not be. Are too many surprises together so that I accept as reality what I see at
this time.

Two days earlier had referred to himself as a pigmy and drag.

That Ra-Ra was another Edwin Gillespie likeness was so accurate. And now ....
- No doubt, I'm sleeping - again he said -. This is impossible.

But
did not need much reflection to give to disregard the idea of ??dreaming.
Had to accept every whim a reality that seemed to take pleasure in
provoking his astonishment, offering amazing similarities.

To convince
himself that he was awake and wide awake, he found a certain pleasure
in examining all the physical details of the illustrious Momar, which
made him an exact reproduction although in very small scale, of another
person exists in the world of human giants.

The Parent Teacher was
Mrs. Augusta Haynes, Margaret's mother. 

Gillespie imagined her,
via backward posts twins, dressed in a suit bizarre and wonderful
doctor to attend a masked ball