 If they asked the canons silence answered
that they were forced to shut up the choir, as they were at home, much older than the cathedral.
Do you know this guy?

- Yes, now I remember. Valero Archbishop Losa lawsuit put them in the early eighteenth century.
Look at his tomb at the foot of the altar. He lost the lawsuit, died of disgust, and had him
buried he set foot here for the insolent wool after death, and who had beaten in life. The arrogance
of these ecclesiastical princes drove them to the proudest modesty
.... But this is what I wanted to teach?

- Things you look better.

Say goodbye to the Virgin. But mind you! What a face! Has adormilaos eyes. The great jembra.
I spend hours looking. Is my girlfriend ... Nights I dream about it ...!

They walked a few steps toward the front door of the cathedral to best view cover around the exterior
end wall of the choir. On the three holes drilled or chapels that runs a strip of ancient reliefs,
the work of an obscure medieval carver, representing scenes of Creation. Gabriel acknowledged
his rude and contemporary sculptures from the door Clock and the first works of the cathedral.

-
See you. In the first medallions, Adam and Eve are naked as worms.

But the Lord The cast of Paradise. They have to dress for the world, and look what they do just
clothes are. Look at the fifth medallion, to our right. What mood would the guy who did that!

Gabriel
looked carefully for the first time those reliefs forgotten. It was simple naturalism of the
Middle Ages, the confidence with which the artists depicted their
secular conceptions at the time of idealism, the desire to perpetuate
the triumph of the flesh in every corner ignored the mystical monuments,
to testify that life was not dead.

Eva was fall from the trees, with their clothes in disarray, and Adam about it, with a gesture of
madness sex, grabbed her arms to dominate it, and hit his mouth to his chest with such avidity
that the same could kiss than bite.

El Tato was proud to the surprise of his uncle.

- Hey, how are you?

I discovered that rolling down the church.

Sing the canons every day to the other side of that wall, never suspecting that their heads
are on such joys. And the glass, man? You look good. At first many color blind, confused the figures,
the short lead doodles and not guess anything. But I've spent entire afternoons studying them,
and I know them by heart. They are stories, things that painted his time there the glassmakers,
whose intricacies are lost, without any Christian who can get it.

He pointed to the windows of the second ship, through which filtered the light of the afternoon
with caramel tone.

- See you there - continued the dogcatcher -. A man with a red cape and sword climbs a ladder string.
In the window expect a nun. Think it's Don Juan Tenorio representing by All Saints. Further, these
two are in bed and people knocking at the door. Must be the same birds and the amazing family.
And in the other window, mind you either: porridge ball, neighbor without the robe of hair, things
in order, the times when people had no shame and walked with her
face up ... and the other side to air.

Gabriel smiled at the foolishness that the vagaries of ancient art
inspired by the dogcatcher.

- For in the choir, man, there is something
to see.

Here goes: it just trades in and out the canons.

Luna was the annihilation of admiration whenever he entered the choir. That stalls high, work on one
side of Philip of Burgundy and other Berruguete, he reveled in the
profusion marble, jasper and gold, statues and medallions.

It was the spirit of Michelangelo resurgent in the Cathedral of Toledo.

The dogcatcher examined the lower stalls, ferreting Gothic reliefs discoveries made by his
morbid curiosity. The first seating at ground level, where they sat category clerics of tiny, half
a century earlier was the high chairs, but during the past fifty years has made the great leap
art from the Gothic stiff and hard to softness and good taste of the Renaissance. Maestre
Rodrigo had carved at the time that Spain Christian, moved with enthusiasm, attended the recent
efforts of the Catholic Monarchs to complete the Reconquista.

In the backs and on the boards of the friezes, fifty and four carved paintings reproduced the
main incidents of the conquest of Granada.

El Tato not watching these planes of oak and walnut with throngs of riders and clusters of soldiers
Climbing up the walls of the Moorish cities. Was more interested in the arms of chairs, handrails
of the stairs leading to the high chairs, the projections that separate seats and serve to lay
his head, covered with grotesque animal and dogs, monkeys, birds, brothers and little page, all
in awkward, rare and obscene. Pigs and frogs mated in monstrous municipalities, the monkeys, with ignoble
gesture, writhing in lustful spasms, and little page linked in position
against the head sank on the cross of shims partner.

It was a cartoon world of lust, and thrills monkey gestures satiríacos,
which poked his carnal passion with the grimace of the most grotesque
animalism.

- Look here, man.

As funny, this is the most notable.

And Tato taught Gabriel figurine of a monk preaching chubby with huge ears donkey.

When they left the choir, Gabriel was near the large fresco of St. Christopher's teacher chapel. Just immediately
close a small door of the colossus, which leads to a staircase spiral
to the music file.

The artist under his arm a large book with covers dusty Gabriel showed.

-
I'll take it up.

And you hear something, it's worth.

And from his view of the tome to the hatch immediately, said:

- Oh, that file, Gabriel, what a pity da! Each time I visit I leave sad. Have around barbaric past.
All music books have pages torn, cuts where there was a letter painted a cartoon, something
nice. The old music sleep in the dust. The canons do not want it, do not understand or are
able to devote a few pesetas to be heard in the great feasts.

It is enough to get by with any piece Rossini, and as for the organ, the only thing that matters
is you play slow, very slow.

The more slowly, more religious, but the organist play a habanera.

Still watching the door of the file with melancholy eyes, as if to mourn over ruin the music.

-
And there, Gabriel, is very remarkable work that should not die as the world exists art. We in secular
music are not much, but believe me that Spain was something religious authors .... It is understood
that if there really is secular music and religious music, which I doubt, for me, there's only
music, and do not know what the handsome check separation, detailing where one ends and another
begins .... Behind that wall of San Cristobal sleep mutilated, dust shroud, the great Spanish
musicians. It is better to sleep. To hear what is sung in this choir! There is Christopher Morales,
who was three centuries ago Kapellmeister at the cathedral and twenty years before Palestrina began
reforming music. In Rome shared the glory with the famous teacher. His portrait is in the Vatican
and Lamentations, his motets, the Magnificat, sleep here forgotten for centuries. That Victoria
... Did you know? Another from the same period. Envious contemporaries called him "the monkey Palestrina
', taking all these works, imitations, after his long stay in Rome but believe me that rather
than ripping into Italian perhaps exceeded. Here is Rivera, a teacher Toledo, which nobody remembers,
and has on file an entire volume of Masses, and Romero de Avila, the best studied Mozarabic chant,
and Ramos de Pareja, a musician no less than fifteenth century, written in Bologna his book Tractatus
music, and destroyed the old system Guido of Arezzo, discovering the "temperament of the sounds,"
and the monk Ureña, which adds note if the scale, and Javier Garcia, who in the past century
reformed the music, leading it to Italy (God forgive him!) beaten path which have not yet emerged,
and Nebra, the great organist Charles III, a man who a century before Wagner was born in Spain
and used musical dissonance. When writing the Requiem for the funeral of Mrs. Barbara de Braganza,
sensing the strangeness of instrumentalists and singers to his revolutionary music, he in the
range of particellas: "Note that this paper is not wrong." His Litany was so famous, it was forbidden
to copy, under pain of excommunication, but useless work, because today is to excommunicate
whom he thought of it. Believe me, Gabriel, that file is a pantheon
of great men, but finally pantheon, where nobody comes back.

Then he added, lowering his voice:

- The Church has always been a little music lover. To understand it and feel it should be born
artist, and you know what all these guys that come to sing in the choir ... without knowing music.
When I see you, Gabriel, smiling at religious things, I guess in his expression how much he
is silent, and give the reason. I have been curious to know history of music in the Church
have followed step by step the long ordeal of art unhappy taking
up the cross of worship throughout the centuries.

You have heard many times of religious music, as if it were a thing apart, created by the Church.
Well, is a lie: there is religious music.

The dog catcher had moved away to hear that the Kapellmeister of tireless verve when talked about
his art, he attacked the subject of music.

He had formed his opinion on Don Luis, and told everyone in the upper cloister. It was a guillati,
who only knew how to play blues in his harmonium, not brighten it occurred to the poor of the
Claverias with something danceable as requested by the niece of Silver Stick.

Gabriel walked the priest and talking about the silent ships.

There were more people a group of people in the house at the door of the sacristy and two women
kneeling before the gate of the altar praying out loud. Began to spread through the twilight cathedral
of rapid winter evenings. The first bats descended from the vaults, flying between the forest
of columns.

- Music Church - said the artist - is a true anarchy. In all, the Church anarchic. Believe me,
the unity of the Catholic religion in all the land there is much to say. Christianity, to train
as a religion, not invented or a bad chant. Take the Jews their songs and how to sing: a primitive,
barbaric music, which if known now taladraría our ears. Outside of Palestine, where Jews were not
the first poets Christians, St. Ambrose, Prudentius, and others adapted their new hymns and psalms to
popular songs that were in vogue in the Roman world, or the Greek music. It seems this of
"Greek music" means a great deal, right, Gabriel? The Greeks so large in the arts and poetry, all that
bears his name seems wrapped in an environment of outstanding beauty. Well, no sir, the Greek music
that should be a Charivari. The progress of the arts has not been paralleled in the life of
mankind. When the sculpture Phidias had reached the summit, the painting was no more than that
character almost rudimentary can still be seen in Pompeii and the music was a baby talk. The
script could not perpetuate the music, there were so many "modes", musical people, and almost
all of it were left to the performer. Unable to look at the parchment what they were singing
mouths and instruments, progress was therefore impossible.

For this has been a renaissance for sculpture, to painting and architecture
and the arts rise again after Middle Ages, they found the music in
the same children who had left when leaving ancient world.

Gabriel nodded his head movements to the words of Kapellmeister.

- This was the early Christian music - continued Don Luis -. Committed to the tradition and
transmitting ear, religious chants disfigured and corrupted. In each church sang differently. Religious
music was gibberish. The mystics tended to the hard drive, the inscrutable, and San Gregorio
in the sixth century published his Antifonario, a pastiche of all liturgical melodies, purifying
their discretion. It was a mixture of two elements: Greek, but oriental and floral, something
like the current Malaga, and Roman, serious and tough. Grades are expressed in letters, the tones
were still Phrygian, Lydian, etc., And continued the labyrinth of Greek music, but very lively,
with fioritudes, sighs and aspirations. The patchwork was lost, and much regret that want to return
to the old, believing it better. Judging by the fragments that remain, whether now runs the
music that nothing would of religion, as religion is understood today in art, it would be
a song as of the Moors, or Chinese, or some schismatic Greeks still remain in the liturgies old.
The harp was the instrument of the temple until the court appeared in the tenth century, rude
and barbarous instrument that had to play with his fists, and gave him air swollen skins. Guido
of Arezzo was a musical arrangement on the basis of pastiche, an arrangement nothing more, and
this was enough for the Benedictine hung the invention of the staff. Continued using the letters
of Boethius and Gregory as notes, and only put in two lines with
three different colors.

Continued the anarchic mess. Learn music badly then cost twelve years, and there was no singing in
different cities that they understood the same role. San Bernardo, dry and austere as his time,
he found absurd this song, to be minor.

He was refractory to art. He wanted the church dismantled, unadorned architectural and music
seemed the best the slowest. He was the father of plainsong, which said that music is the more
religious the more leisurely. But in the thirteenth century, Christians found this song boring.
The cathedrals were the point of distraction, drama, the center of life at that time. The temple
was going to pray a little to God and have fun forgetting the wars, violence and outrages abroad.
Again came the popular music in the Church, and sang in cathedrals songs in vogue, who were almost
always obscene. The people took part in church music, singing in various tessitura, each which,
as he thought best, and these were the first attempts of polyphonic singing voices or agreed.
Religion was so happy, popular, democratic, as you say, Gabriel; Inquisition had not yet suspected
of heresy or sour the mood with fanaticism and fear. Air crude instruments and string that entertained
artisans in cities and peasants in the mowing entered the temple and the body was accompanied by
violas, violins, trumpets, bagpipes, flutes, guitars and lutes. The chorale was liturgical in
most of Europe, but the faithful and despised by incomprehensible alternábanlo with songs. In major
parties were singing religious hymns, set to music of popular tunes that were in vogue, such
as Song of the gunman, Morena Give me a kiss I do not know what bulle; Duélete me, madam Curse
whom you married, and others of same style ... And Rome?, You ask, and the Church, what he said before
this mess ...? The Church lived without artistic criteria, not ever had. Failed to create an architecture
as hieratic, like other religions, or a painting or a sculpture that were his work, and less
music. Was adapting to the environment was acceptable and appropriate, with a lack absorbency
originality, so it was not his work, but of human progress. Greco-Roman style, Byzantine, Gothic,
Renaissance, all went into their construction, but art pure and original Christian does not exist,
never existed. In music, much talk of "severity" of "anointing" of "Gregorian traditions"
hollow words without precise meaning, vagueness that hide the lack
of artistic criteria. What are the boundaries of the religious and
the profane