 What about your health? I think, Gabriel, that this
is worse you ... Men! In his honor, and other lies! We are honored to have charity, compassion
the like, and not to harm anyone. That I said the other day when my son-cad, angry seeing
that going to Madrid in search of the girl. He spoke of the family honor, Sagrario back that if they
could not live in the cathedral decent people, and he allow his daughter to appear at the door
of the house, and the very thief every day he wax steals the Virgin and the devout scam taking
money for masses who never say. So her hair looks and is so big ... with so much honor.

The old, after a short silence, he looked at Gabriel with indecision.

- So, we jump into the fray? Stephen ... I call?

- Yes, call. Will be in the cathedral. And you, you dare to watch the interview?

- No, son you there. You know Stephen and know me. Or would that give me a mourn, or end up
scratching for his stubbornness. You just cope better. For that you have God gave this talentazo
so misused.

It was the old, and Gabriel remained just over half an hour, looking out the windows of a abandoned
the cloister window. The cathedral was quieter than usual.

Death God annual spread in the Levitical tribe of the roof a more
intense atmosphere of sadness the interior of the church.

Children of Claverias and women were below looking at the Monument.

The rooms seemed abandoned. Gabriel saw through front to the window to his brother, who at the
time appeared at the door.

What is it, Gabrielillo? What's wrong? The aunt has alarmed me with
recadito.

Are you worse?

- Sit down, Stephen. I'm okay, calm down ....

The Wooden Staff sat, staring in amazement at Gabriel. He was alarmed by the seriousness inexplicable
prolonged silence, which seemed to coordinate their thoughts, which
he did not know how start ...

- Speak up, man!

Break at once! You got me worried.

- Brother - Gabriel said with gravity - you know that I respected the mystery of your life with
which I was to return here. I said, 'My daughter is dead, I expressed a wish that you never talk
about it, and you can tell if you've played your old wound the slightest allusion.

- Well, so what? Where are you going to stop? - Stephen said, turning somber when he heard these
words -. Why talk in a day is as sacred as the things today that make me hurt ...?

- Esteban, it is not easy for us to understand if you stick to your concerns. Do not put that
gesture, hear me calmly, do not move like an automaton impelled by the same wires that moved our grandfathers
and great grandfathers. Be a man and work under your own thoughts .... You and I have us different
beliefs. I leave aside the religious, they are to you a comfort, and you know that my callous
to me impossible not to make my life here. But apart from This, you believe that the family is
a work of God, an institution of supernatural origin and I think it is a human institution, based
on the needs of the species. Which lacks the laws of the family, who deserts his flag, the sentences
you forever, sentences death of oblivion, I pity and forgive him his weakness. We understand the
honor of a differently. You are the Castilian honor, that honor traditional barbarian, more
cruel and unfortunate that the same disgrace, a theatrical honor, whose impulses do not start feeling
ever humans, but the fear of what people say, the desire to appear very large and very worthy
in the eyes of others before those of his conscience. For the adulterous wife, death, avenging
murder, for the runaway daughter, disregard, neglect, this is your gospel. I have another: for the
wife who forget their duties, contempt and oblivion, and for the piece fleeing our guts, love,
support, tenderness, to get back to us ... Stephen, we are separated by our beliefs, a lot of centuries
stands between us; but you're my brother, and I want to love you, you know you only wish you
well, that I have been you the family name in both estimates, I loved
our poor parents like you could you love them, and on behalf of all
this I say that this situation must end, you should not live insensitive
and petrified in what you call your dignity, without being troubled
memories of a your daughter rolling around the world as a heap.

You so good that I've collected in the trance most difficult of my
life, how can you sleep, how you eat, your existence without bitterness
the thought of your daughter missing?

What do you know her now? Can not starve while you eat? Is not it easy to be in a hospital, while
you have your house where they lived parents ...?

Esteban contracted with a grim face listening to his brother.

- It is useless to you try, Gabriel. Nothing will get. Do you have denied something? I'm not
willing everything for my brother? But I do not talk about that, I have caused much damage has
broken my life: I do not know how I am not dead. Have you thought through what it means to be
the family of the Moon during centuries the mirror of the cathedral, the respect of even the
bishops themselves, and suddenly be one in the past, exposed to the laughter of all, being able
to look at him with compassion the last altar boy? What I have suffered! The times I've cried
with anger, alone in this room, after hearing what was whispered behind my back! And then - he
said quietly, as if the pain tarnish his voice - that unhappy martyr who died of shame, poor
woman, who left the world for not seeing my pain or suffer the scorn of others ...! What I
want to forget this ...? Also, Gabriel, I do not know to express my feelings as well as you. But
the honor ... is the honor. It is in this house I live without shame, sleep at night without
fear of seeing in the dark eyes of our father asking me for what remains a lost woman under
the same roof that conquered the moon with centuries service to the
church of God, is to prevent people laugh in our family .... That
say in good time, "Those Luna, which is unfortunate ', but do not
say that the Moon never are a lack of family shame.

For our love, brother, let me: do not talk over this. These evil doctrines have poisoned your soul,
not only have ceased to believe in God but no longer believe in the honor.

- And what is that? - Gabriel said, angered -. You yourself do not know. "The honor is the honor."
However, children are children. Tu, worries man, do not stop to consider what are these beings,
then our very existence. Your religion does to children fruit of God, and yet think better
and more perfect when repeléis and maldecís these gifts from heaven just cause you annoyance. No,
Stephen, love children and commiseration for his failures should be above all concerns. This soul's eternal
life, promise minds of all religions, is only true for children. The soul dies with the body,
is not a manifestation of our thinking, and thinking is a brain function, but the children our being
perpetuated through generations and the centuries, they are what make us immortal, and that store
and convey something of our personality, as we inherit from our ancestors. He who forgets to
humans they are his work is more worthy of execration that leaving the life by suicide. The
contradictions of existence, the laws and customs invented by men, what are with the instinctive
affection for the beings who have left us and perpetuate the variety habitudes infinite and
our thoughts? I hate those miserable, not to disturb peace bourgeois marriage, leaving the children
were away from home. Paternity is the noblest of the animal functions, but the animals have
more value and greater dignity man to carry. No high-class animal leaves your puppy or unknown, and
you are many men who turn away the child, for fear of what people can say. If having a child I
fell in love me madly the most beautiful woman in the world and this require me to forget, drown
my passion for not leaving the little boy. If anything is missing my son to all human laws
and would lead him to the gallows, to accompany him I challenging the execration of the people,
not for a moment deny that it was my doing. We united forever when we give life is a commitment
of solidarity that we contract with the species to work for their conservation. He who breaks
the chain and runs away, is a coward.

- Will not convince me, Gabriel! - Esteban cried energy -. I do not ...!, not want to!

- I repeat: it is cowardly that you do. Since the honor is so heavy on you, that honor outdated
and cruel to fix the conflicts of life bloodshed, why do not you find that stole your daughter?,
why do not you kill him as an old comedy father? You are a man Pacific, who has not learned the
art of murder, and that individual is a professional weapons, if you had come without any rule,
by appealing to what you believe your right, your family powerful had no mercy on you. You
have not avenged, for self-preservation, fear the prison and all the punishments invented by
society, have been afraid, despite your indignation, and this fear
turns into cruelty to be weaker.

Your anger only falls the daughter .... Come on, Stephen, that is
not worthy of a parent.

The Wooden Staff moved his head stubbornly.

- Will not convince me, do not want to hear. That woman will not return here. Do not desert me? Well
move on.

- I abandoned that instinct impulses that carry within them all healthy beings: the instinct
conservation of the species, which embellishes the poem called love. If you had left after receiving
the blessing of a man before an altar, you show you satisfied and would receive with open
arms as many times as you come to see you. I left to be fooled, for falling into poverty and shame,
and seeing her unhappy, do not deserve your sympathy, especially that if you saw happy? Ponder,
Stephen, fell in the way your poor daughter. What 'd taught to cope with the malice of the world?
What weapons was to preserve intact what you call honor? You, you and your wife, the dabais
example of the respect it deserves money and a high birth letting into your house and that
boy, accepting as an honor that a gentleman should be set at your daughter. The poor man loved
seeing it as a summary of all human perfections. When came the inevitable results of inequality
social, she would not resign, was one of those noble natures that rise up against the prejudices
of the world, even at the risk of having all the bitterness of his rebellion, and fell up. Who
can blame?

In their ignorance, to his life of isolation from the world; you
who do not teach them more, and blinded by ambition to dream together
dejabais precipice everyone, except her.

Unhappy! Paid more than his noble ferocity against social concerns. Is a social dead in combat:
a body to be lifted; and you, you're the parent, you be the first to accomplish this work of justice.

Stephen, with his head down, still making moves negative.

- Brother - Gabriel said with solemnity - as you cling tenaciously to your refusal, I can only
say one thing: if your daughter does not come, I'm going .... Each has his scruples. You fear the
gossip of the people, I fear myself, that thought can reproach me in moments of solitude.
Since I'm your host, I think all the time your daughter, since I knew what happened in this house,
I decided to return to the unhappy victim you. Will not you come back? Well, I'm the one who leaves.
It would be a thief if you eat your bread as a being who is flesh of your flesh hungry, if I cease
to care about my disease, while perhaps unfortunate that is worse than me and not in the world
a hand to hold it. If she does not return, I am not your brother, I am an intruder usurps
the caring and which corresponds well to another being. Brother, each one has its moral: yours
is taught by priests, I have mine set me myself, and although less flamboyant, perhaps more rigid. And
on behalf of my morality, I say: Steve, my brother, or your daughter is, or I do. Again the
world, to be pursued as a rabid beast, the hospital, prison, to die
as a dog by the side of a road I do not know what will become of me,
all I know for sure is that I'm leaving tomorrow, today, to not enjoy
a minute of what is not mine.

I I consider an unjust theft of property usurpation of land by a
privileged minority, knowing I can not keep being owned by a natural
right to a child unhappy.

Could only enjoy sharing it with her.

Stephen had been standing, gesture of despair.

- But are you crazy, Gabriel? Would you like me?

What do you say to that quiet? Your presence here is the only joy of my life after so many misfortunes.
I've come to see you, I need to take care of yourself, you're my
only family; it did not have any aspirations, living without hope,
now I have one: see you healthy and strong.

What do you say to that freshness that you go ...? No, you will not go .... That was missing:
after the daughter Brother ... May I die at once! Lord God, take me with you ...!

And the simple servant of the temple raised his hands with a look of supplication, while his eyes
misted with tears.

- Be calm, Stephen. Let's talk like men, without cries and cries.

Look at me: I am serene, and not think why it is true that I will
go today if you do not agree to my request.

- But what about that?,
Where is, with so much interest that she plead? - Stepan -.

Is it that you've seen and heard? Is he in Toledo? Have you brought anything with your boldness of
disbelief, the cathedral itself ...?

Gabriel, seeing tearful and broken by his threat to leave, he thought when the time decisive, and opened
the tabernacle's door.

- Sal, girl, your father apologizes.

The Wooden Staff saw a woman kneeling in the center of that room you
never entered, for fear of recalling the past.

Her look was strange.

Then set their eyes on Gabriel, as if they guess who was woman. What farce had prepared his
brother?

With a brutal impulse, clasped her hands and left his face, staring
at her.

Still, he did not recognize.

He spent much time contemplating, in the midst of a painful silence. Gradually, in the features
disfigured by the disease were marked for the former lines. In the watery eyes and no eyelashes
saw something that reminded her blue eyes of the lost daughter.

Purple lips with deep cracks, moved plaintive, murmuring always the same word:

- Sorry ...!, sorry!

In view of the ruin, the father felt he was coming down his courage. His eyes expressed an immense
sadness, stunned.

Retreated back to the door of the room followed by the girl, who wore holding out his hands to
his knees.

- Brother, well - he said with dismay -. You more than me: your will. That is because you want
to. But that does not see it ...! Stay: who leaves me.

VI

The sewing machine sounded from dawn till night in the house of the Moon. This noise metal
and hammering the cobbler were the only signs of troubled work the sacred silence of the upper
cloister.

When Gabriel left the bed at sunrise, after a night of painful cough,
was in the living room and entry to Sanctuary preparing the machine
for daily work.

From day after his return to the cathedral had removed the cover
off the machine, dedicated to Working with taciturn toughness as a
means to pass unnoticed in the Claverias and people to forgive her
past.

The old gardener gave him work, and noise Stitch playing on the old room, often mixed with the
melodies of the harmonium the choirmaster.

The Wooden Staff went through the house like a shadow. Remained in the cathedral or in the cloister
down, not up to his room but in cases of necessity. He ate with his head down, not to look
at her daughter, who was sitting across the table and seemed close to burst into tears seeing
before him. A painful silence enveloped the family. Don Luis was the only one in his unconsciousness
of man distracted, was not aware of the situation, and talked Gabriel happily with their hopes
and musical enthusiasms. Everything was natural, nothing surprised him, the Tabernacle return
home did not cause the slightest surprise.

Esteban fled once the meal, not to return home until evening. After dinner was locked in his
room, leaving his brother and his daughter in the entrance hall.

The machine again shaken and Don Luis typed the organ, until it sounded nine Silver Stick closed
the tower staircase, waving his bunch of keys with a noise amounted to ancient touch of cubrefuego.

Gabriel
was indignant at the tenacity of his brother.
- You kill the girl. What you do is not worthy of a parent.

- I
can not, brother, I can not watch it. I quite tolerate in our home
with these things. Alas, if you knew how I hurt people's eyes ...!

In
fact, had been less than he hoped the scandal occurred in the Claverias
by the return of Tabernacle. He was so disfigured by disease and hardship,
it was noted it just fatigue, no woman felt animosity toward her.
Strong protection Tomasa her aunt commanded respect. In addition,
those females simple, instinctive passions, could not feel at his
ugliness hostile envy her beauty inspired years earlier and the engagement
with the cadet. Up Ladybug, the niece of Silver Stick, was certain
satisfaction to their self-protecting with a contemptuous tolerance
to that unhappy that once attracted the attention of all men visiting
the upper cloister.

Curiosity only disturbed the quiet of the Claverias
for a week. Little by little, women stopped looking out the door to
see Sagrario Luna bowed before the machine and the girl followed the
laborious and sad life.

Gabriel left little room. I spent whole days
beside the girl, wanting replaced with the hostile presence of the
father away. It hurt that he saw in his own house so despised and
alone and the world. Sometimes came to see their Aunt Tomasa Animate
your cheerful optimism of old