 For there to find out, because it began to mortify the fear of
not having it. Additionally, or is one man, or it is not, or has or does not have guts humanity,
guts to go where you go and do what others do, or serves or served for something more useful
and more juice and enjoyment to tread rugs salons, kidney fat a Jewish innkeepers, tailors and
shoemakers in fashion shows to attend, devouring distances crammed into cages rail docks, and spending,
in short, time and money on trifles in vain and frivolous slut.

On track the discourse on this path, I feel a force of spirit, a virility unknown to me my love
soliviantóse own good healthy boy of soul and body, and taking advantage fever, fearing that if it was
temporary, it will take my ardor to disappear I wrote to my uncle saying "here I come" and even
by attaching the date of my departure from Madrid. Among I would therefore my travel arrangements,
and I answer he gave me the necessary instructions to get home from the last railroad station.

As I walked busy making abundant supply of warm clothing, sturdy footwear, weapons offensive and
defensive Aimard books of Töpffer and few, including Chateaubriand, have pleasant things written
about mountains, forests and wild, as if projected a tour of the center of a remote unexplored continent,
I can not answer that Missed me fever. Less secure it when I tried to "lift" my house. Seemed
that this amounted to burn my ships, or at least to me and had consented to by to be very long
my stay among the bears of Cantabria, and the fear of this risk I leaned to leave these things
as they were on good friends in Madrid that they would look for them. At any rate, nothing is easier
than solving the contrary from there, if you ask the circumstances.

Finally, fearing that this remnant of my weaknesses is I would still
brewing other air cooler and enervating, closed the doors of all reflection
speech contrary to the agreement, and boasts Alea est, I thought,
like Caesar, resolved to pass all costs for my Rubicon.

II

And the company rushed on the agreed date, one day in late October, cold and misty in the heights
of the Roman "Juliobriga." In the classic villa immediate end of my journey first and only possible
by train, I stopped half an hour away: the purely essential members to stretch and comfort the stomach,
because there was no time to lose according to the opinion of the footman who was waiting
for me at that point from the previous day with two nag land, and chaparretes espelurciados, one
to drive me and one for bear my luggage.

Launched all well run and mid-morning, before the footman carrying the spur the horse that was
barely visible beneath the heap of my bags and wrappers, without leaving the center of the
town by a bridge crossed the Ebro old newborn and rather short stretch down there and after
a short lie down, it was on that side as suburban population we left back, Vimon free field,
if free can which is encircled called barriers. From the summits of the highest fell off wisps
of fog that enveloped them, and mimicked left to dry wet fleeces in tips of the rocks and the
thickness of those secular and almost inaccessible trees, with the mountain air blowing constantly,
and so fresh, that forced me to lift up the ears, the neck of my new raincoat.

Continuing our journey faced west, we had continually to the left,
water above the river, with its fresh, green and pompous bank vaults
and canopies willow, alder and blackberry, and topábamos from time
to time with a small town, although not very happy color, spice up
the monotony of the landscape.
