 

Posts in peace very soon, he continued:

- By the way, take me two years to date, although Deny drag, without a hint of fear of God,
and already has four consecutive hard right weight. Was always much wineskin, good appetite
and better behavior. So he has come so here, not a bad gripe. Never addiction took him as the
priest, to the big game ... in the brambles, you understand, because the edge your home or fireside,
an ox is zampa two sittings, if he is offered. For that and other things, well we call that we want,
not that bad I take no offense, "Marmitón."

- Celso! - Don Pedro
Nolasco here roared, kicking at the edge of the plateau in supporting
feet, shod in sneakers black belts, the same as the parish priest
and my uncle.

And then I noticed that underneath I was wearing slippers alagartadas mean, green, large black
dots.

- That's all you ugly, except the face - my uncle said to him quietly -: the great ... In a
javelin that point you jealous, maybe a joke.

We left a searing and and you want to get into another ...

- Barájolas! - Don Pedro Nolasco said crossing himself -.

Have you seen another like it? Swindling of demons, "because I've got you and me so much,
since over the other?

My uncle ignored him, and he asked me:

- Have you seen it right?

Well, with these bristles and all, is the neighbor of the people noblón the best friend of
his friends, and it's grapes from our vine. Take heart in hand and give the skin when there
is no layer from the poor. I tell you, Marmitón of demons, but hit me - he said turning to
the giant -, I'm telling you, cuartajo!, I, I have good evidence
to be true: and I say to the soul and life.

If you want to believe me believe me, if not worse for you. Is not that right, Cura?

- Est Deus in nobis - he replied, shaking his head from side to side
as he says something good that is also undisputed -.

There is no getting around it, Deus in nobis est, semper et located. And if not, poor us each bungling
of that weapon Satan in the disputes of men.

- Well, well - my uncle
said, turning to his friend who jokes or moved, with big eyes fixed
on the fire -.

Now I want you to stay to dinner with us, not for me I do not deserve,
but to honor my nephew.

- A good time! - Murmured the giant stirring
a little look into Don Celso and unloading much the celajes of his
face.

- Do you mean because you eaten yet?

"- Replied my uncle.

- Naturally.

- Well, for that matter, because
I assumed, you invited me.

In stomachs like yours, called prime prime ... And to encourage you and make it more round and
full tonight, I also invited you, Priest.

- That's another thing - then Don Pedro Nolasco said, going straight
to the imagination -: if It is ...

We denied the Cure to it in all
earnest, but insistently my uncle and I commit myself also accepted
at the end.

- Have you heard, Tona?

... Well Bring the story to Facia to put two dishes on table, and you add what is missing,
if it is missing something in the kitchen.

Tona said that was left with what was leaning over the fire, where everyone ate "As God commanded,"
and my uncle, while the big man with hoarseness received the conditional the servant had cast
his eyes thither, gave the history and topped ordered it was another fun.

Or both were not even for my taste, the few that surfaced later, as the blonde Bouncers and Facia,
the gray woman, who was in and out often, they gave the last arrimados condumios touches on
fire. For my part, and 'to get by in the conversation » I had to provide, at the behest of the
priest and Don Pedro Nolasco, four vague on "These worlds of God, for which both had been shot
in the words of the same gentlemen, and less concerned and that at first as there was, and being
able to bring my attention to other terms of the box, I noticed, among other things, that Chisco
Tona and took no part in it than with the eyes and the occasional laugh or cry, and that such
a servant, for her face and her figure, from head to toe, in short, was what was called a
good girl.

- You see - even told me my uncle - who here does not hang out too bad, after the fact man these
things so different from "beyond." And better yet passed, as you go see, for tonight does not
rule: it is not that time today, they do not press the cold and much of the corn without leaves,
and we have leafless, because first things first, but allow yourself to run day and the sky begins
to turn brown and "Rebombo" the Pozon Pena Sagra, piece of junk! people come and see this kitchen,
until he night not fit in these banks, each with its accoutrement and its theme ... montuna
all people, for cash: jastialones pure. We must arm ourselves sometimes much stamina, yes, because
in a flock, Zanchetta! Not all beasts are in the same condition, but the best times are the
most, and as not ask camuesa chestnuts ... Come on, you have to entertain, if you accustom
to it ... and God will do so.

- Well not to jacerlu! - Don Pedro
Nolasco said, surprised that it was doubted he had the indubitable.

-
A morning usque ad noctem custody speret Israel in Domino - Don Sabas
confirmed - without counting with what I have said and I never tire
of repeating: Deus in nobis est, and therefore should not despair
of anything that is honest, convenient and good man according to the
holy law of God.

When it came time to go to dinner, asked Don Pedro Nolasco very surprised:

- But how? ... Do not dine here?

- No sir! - Replied my uncle pushing toward the door.

- But why? - Insisted that standing on the hearth.

- Curiosón of demons - returned the other, turning to him from the middle of the kitchen -. First,
a given mud you should not put studs, and lastly, you have of knowing you, swallow-knockers of
jinojo that not all time are some, not all men are equal. Do you understand me now?

This occurred in the instant Chisco, mandated by Tona, was approaching the wall I had been
in front, which was adapted a board, he loosened the Taravilla held above, you spun on the
axle was in the down side, and left him horizontal position supported by a tentemozo. Requesting
information on the use of that unit, I found that the table was 'lazy' to my uncle who had
alluded in the dining room.

- And why they put it now? - Ask.

- For dinner the servants as soon as we get the hell out of here -
he answered.

I liked the device, which was armed with a short distance from hearth
novelty tentóme that, certainly I think the good joined notorious
Don Pedro Nolasco.

- As for me - my uncle said with firm resolve
- to lift the cloth at the other table and tend to it.

For give you a taste, I sent to dine there: you know that mine is very different. Also, for
what I have for dinner ... So if you prefer this ...

Agreed, at my request, that for the night stay the way things were, dining forth in the lazy and
leaving the dining room table for lunch, she stooped down its pedestal
Don Pedro Nolasco, and left the kitchen, the four people in swath,
Tona following we lit the way with a candle that had lowered the hood
the fireplace.

And what happened while I was dreading doing, for what had been observed around the fire and
the chores of repolluda cook, that dinner was ready in my honor to serve as a temptation rather
than terror and solace to my diner swallows, made and tasty seasoned to the kitchen parvidades
mundane. Start counting by covered and two silver spoons fashioned way, a loaf of bread "home"
eight glasses green glass bottle and a very black, all he had and was appearing on the table was
solid and big and rich to the unbelievable. First, a bucket of milk soup, then a very serious source
of a turnip soup salad, then an omelette of bacon, followed by a spicy offal, and, finally,
a huge apple compote, and much cheese from sheep. The only thing in short supply there were
light and heat because of the oil lamp wicks was almost lost in black space before reaching the
table, and chamuscón that I had given me in the kitchen only served in the dining room to feel doubly
glacial temperature of that wilderness.

The Cure, contrary to what I expected from their size, ate nothing but regularly, and was clean
and rested in the eating. My uncle tried everything not like anything, and I satisfy my need,
more than appetite, twelve hours, almost as much as the sight of abundant food, as the parvidades
that they took ... But Don Pedro Nolasco! ... I had no measure their calo stomach vulture devoured
up to the eyes, and much that does not fit in the mouth while worked
his throat, Corriale in rivulets on the outside to sink under the
sobarba between leather jacket, or mixed dropwise with the filth of
the vest.

They spoke little on the table, and this was most recently my uncle to say insulting glutton,
who did not answer, nor do I think I heard him, and to ponder his surprise at what picky I
came across him in the dining room, and especially by the 'plan' for my supper, so on, I drew him. I could
not understand the good lord that a boy of my age and my health,
ate as he put forward at any time of day or night.

"Rich and hearty" was the motto of good men eat lavish coat of my uncle.

Walking into this and "belch" and the giant for not having the stomach thing that more juice
entertainment, a bell was heard hourglass toward the more obscure and remote from the room.

- Half past ten! - Said my uncle turning in the bank -. I think it's time leave you in peace.
The trip will be well ground bones, and you'll want to overthrow in bed. Otherwise you would not
believe: the labyrinth of cattle down, and the gathering of up after praying the Rosary, rare
is the night we went to bed early ... And You see, you'll see, pispajo!
how we live here, but montunos and poor, the wealthy use City ...
"So entendístelo, Marmitón?

Well, Jorrios! While you're jartu, and his house which does.

Levantámonos all thanked the priest, and faithfully fulfilled We replied,
and went with Don Pedro Nolasco, not without making me see the stars
again with the handshakes I got for dismissal.

Shortly thereafter, I locked myself in my room, paseábame over him trying to think in many things
without actually thinking based on anything I do not know if it really
did not want, or because he could not think otherwise.

With this darkness in my brain and the continuous hum River in Glen,
I finally feel sleepy, and went to bed.

Clean white clothes like the sun was my bed, but how cold ... and how hard I found it!

V

However, I slept all night in one fell swoop, but dreaming a lot and many things each more extravagant.
I remember that I dreamed of the bear the Port, with gorges and ravines they had no end, and so
narrow throat, I could not even walk by them in sideways. Persisted in fleeing the fierce pass
that I was swaying on his feet back and licking his nose, forcing both wedge my body, which stirred
the mountains at their bases and ranged up there, high up! the rocky peaks, and even collapsed
many of them on me, but without hurting myself. I also dreamed my uncle dancing in the kitchen
by the fire, some women seguidillas gray singing ringing a large
skillet; and then with Don Pedro Nolasco, who ate raw calves and birch
logs and rocks Bardales granite, while they were eating up to me,
fiber to fiber and little by little, the Boredom and Melancholia,
one of the most horrible marriage, who lived at the bottom of an abyss
end anywhere.

Perhaps because that was my last dream of the night, was so sad I wake up in the morning. Because
it was really sad! But I slept with wary curiosity to know sight of land they had voluntarily
bury, and feeling suddenly revive that strong desire to see a bit of light filtering through
the cracks of the doors, I rose quickly, Laverne shivering in the
shelter envolvíme thickest of the various I had at my disposal, and
looked at the same balcony that I had looked at night.

The rain had stopped, but he was the wretched remnant of sky was visible from there a heightened
head full of clouds passing at full speed over the rock border disappeared over the roof of
the house. Between cloud and cloud and when it broke a joint of the tight rope, hinted at a jironcito
blue, dotted with pearly glaze; something like hope for some sunshine
later, if by chance in that wild governing region weather the same
laws in the world I knew.

Leaving this point in doubt, went down with the look and attention
to what interested me at the moment: what could be seen from the earth
in all directions from my observatory mossy stone with rusted iron
railing.

Very little was it, God of mercy!

Forward and almost touching his hand, a huge rock that was out of sight at the top, and even continued
to grow as he walked away up the hill to my left, step toward decreased slowly right and as it
stretched down the hill, to crash, become slope, a mountain that cuts off her skirt extending
from one side to another. Touching the rock of the hill and to disappear into the gap left by
the left between the bottom of the hill and mountain, down the river to escape, tumbling and prancing
and roaring in its channel narrow and deep, covered with weeds and mysteries. Tilted towards
the river between him and the house, below, front and left of the balcony, viscous soil moist
slabs with patches of grass, moss, nettles and Bardales. In right and almost lead to the balcony,
the principle of a front yard that was down and gave back at right angles to the other, as
well as the shed that fencing on the side the river, and was destined, by visible signs, blocks,
fuelwood and hay. By hindrance of these roofs and the long line of the façade of the house,
only reached to see the right, a narrow strip of cultivated land, parallel to the river and falling
the valley, as all traces, extended to that part, ie, right River. And all this, the courtyard
and roofs, and the ground outside, and the brambles and ferns and the railing of the balcony,
in short, as was seen or felt from my observation, moist, glistening and dripping.

There being no smiling thing that put the light on that side, we went to the other facade corresponding
to clear the border to my bedroom. Through this door I went to a large balcony or "Sunshine"
wood sandwiched between two "corners" or mensulones masonry, also called "Firewall." In my right
protruding edge thickness and cut of a coat of arms headed could not see it sticking out the
corners of the balcony railing. Unable see also from there, and for the same reason, the rest of
the facade, I supposed, and not without reason, that the building was occupied by my body overhang.
The balcony fell on a garden of the same width as that facade of the house, and very little
longer, with corresponding inclinations toward her and toward the river, a dozen fruit trees in skeleton,
a box half rotten cabbage, some plants of rue, marjoram and rosemary, a vicious rose fallow
Moreover, an old wall to fence it all, and over the wall, the emerging black moles of a rocky
amphitheater of mountains that are beyond walking in tall with the rock on the right, which
was part of it. And you could not see otherwise.

From the direction of light and other signals rather easy to estimate, say for sure that front
of the house faced south, and the lastral coming down to my left, ie to the east, between the
wall of the garden and the mountain on that side from a high cliff that I saw something far
away, I had come the night before