 Devoid
of olive groves and vineyards, but had made some nest egg, which, as the public voice, spent twelve
thousand pieces, and they grew like wildfire, because the revenue was given to very reliable people,
and ten percent a year, because as a woman was afraid God consciousness very close and very
charitable, I did not go through usurious.

In its various offices, Juana la Larga earned on average, and according to calculations wise,
about eight reales per day, or tell yourself about three thousand each year. And this without
counting the adehalas, tips, gifts and receiving gifts often.

It is true that each and she deserved more.

No one was more calculated to lead a pigs. Singular salted hams skill. Marinating with that prepared
the loins before frying in butter was tasty and delicate, and dyed red butter golden bewitching
sight, was delicate perfume and aroused the appetite of the person coming through half-hearted
when their noses and their eyes. Their sausage, black pudding, sausage morcones and left far
behind the best in this genus is seasoned in Extremadura. And he was so skilled hand for all
that even when melt the butter drew the most crunchy snacks that are eaten pork rinds ever. So the
rich peasants and other people comfortably and tastefully vied Juana
la Larga to go to their house to do the killing.

Regarding baking was nothing less, and most of the year, particularly in three solemn times,
she knew not how to go to a thousand places where they called it: Before Easter Christmas, to make
the sweets and delicacies and wealthy people often sybaritic then send your gift to make, for example,
pastries and the famous picadillo empanadas with anchovies and tomato and onion that are taken
there with the chocolate.

It was also, as anyone polvorones tortillas and sugar that were left far behind commended as Moron,
donuts egg and wine, and many variety of cakes and syrups.

If Jane did not know much about other things, had failed to ensure that was a specialty wonderful
for fritters, so that in the days leading up to Easter no peace was at hand or the mind, going
to the homes of older brothers of the fraternities to make the fluffy flakes, the gajorros and delicious
fritters, which fell apart in the mouth and with which the apostles
were given away, the Nazarenes, the holy King David and all other
prophets and glorious characters of the Old and New Testament contained
delicious processions in which there is style.

Juana was not idle or lacked appropriate skills to use it in the station vintage. Their syrup had
no rival in the whole region, and the same can be said its excellent porridge must. In the fall,
because when given the best fruits, are castrated hives and honey is cool, Juana was used to make
quince jelly and apple variety of legitimate and fluffy nougat piñonates,
which were thick and gold beads linked with the fragrant honey well
beaten.

Beyond this, Jane was painted alone to provide any or banquet that
was Pipiripao or wanted to give a ruler of the people, and on the
occasion of wedding or baptism, and to give away the deputy governor,
Mr Bishop himself if he came to visit the villa.

And do not think that Joan knew just making the local dishes but also imported and added a few
non-indigenous cuisine dishes strangers more or less distant countries, dishes or delicacies which
stood out the yolk very famous cakes, which were only Ecija nuns, whose traditional secrecy is
not clear why prodigious art or skill she had learned to seize. Made Finally, several dishes
of French origin, whose convoluted names had been agreeing to modify the pronunciation Spanish.
For example, the balsamela chops, fried flounder and elvers inglatines
with salmorejo tartar.

This was not the most admirable. The most remarkable was that Jane, about being the wiser cook
and pastry chef of the place, was also his first dressmaker.

Almost always had one or two officers who sewed for her, and she cut dresses with both art and
elegance as Worth or Doucet in the French capital.

The women and girls more affluent and fond of luxury came then to Joan for their Costumes effort,
when he had to wear them as a wedding, and at a fair or already in
the dance it used to be in the Hall buildings on the patron saint.

Juana, finally, was not only wise and active in the arts of pleasure, but also exercised, although
it was not discussed or had a title, a necessary or profession of the highest importance social.

Peritísima
and agilísima was to help any woman in the harshest of Lucina trances,
and many trusted and were delivered to her, because she never had
any unfortunate creature, and because the mother was not very puny,
six or seven days after leaving care was already in place, and often
went to Mass, and if the opportunity arose danced bolero.

With all these skills and qualities, Juana's Long could not but be
dear and in Villalegre, getting your severe and high society or high-life
you have forgiven a slip or trip that took in his youth.

IV

At the time that it will begin the action of this true story, Jane was about quite forty years of
age, although still retained traces of its former beauty, who had
been noticeable when she was twenty, but as time was very poor and
had not discovered and showed their great skills, he found, despite
their merit, boyfriend of his choice, and had to remain unmarried.

What he has, some cavalry officer who came to those places to buy horses for the comeback, and
it was gorgeous and very funny and fun, he fell in love and got Juana woo. It is not known whether
he gave a promise of marriage or is not given, but the fact is that
the good of the officer had to go to civil war, which burned in the
Basque provinces, and there he killed a Carlist bullet that pierced
her skull and you'll be entered in the brain.

Juana was thus semiviuda. Posthumous posthumously or not, had a beautiful girl, who gave at
the baptismal font the same name as his mother.

The mob then added to the name the same epithet, where this girl, who will be the main heroine
of our story, became Juanita surname.

Her mother was raised with love and care, without restraint and without
pretense that she was his daughter which would have been in that play,
where everything was known, the most futile of dissimulation.

Juana raised, then, to her breasts Juanita, always called her daughter, Juanita since he began to
speak, mother Joan called mouth full.

This was considered a great impudence among the strictest in the place, crying out against the
scandal and bad example, but gradually all became accustomed, and after a few years nothing
seemed more natural and more just, but Juanita was the daughter of Juana, to which there is
no lack defenders, and reasonable, earnest, praising the love and maternal devotion of mother to
daughter, and when they were little cursing did not stop Juana compare with others that passed
through very honest and even had the insolence Presumably almost
holy.

Of them murmured, more or less foundation, which had been also the
fruit, not a blessing, which had dropped off or sent to the Foundling
or God or the devil knows how else.

The epithet given to Juanita Long was not only for inheritance but it was also by conquest.

Juanita,
at seventeen, had gleaned so much that the girl was taller and more slender that was in place. Some
of the blood warlike cavalry officer had been infused in it, and the free and manly upbringing
he had received had developed their agility and their brightness. Whenever she had a martial
air, the pair that funny, ran like a deer, throw stones with such tact that killed the sparrows,
and jumped on the back was planted the mule more vicious or more wild pony. And not to straddle,
because this is not consented their honor and their natural beauty
and unconscious, but sitting, which is more difficult was trot and
gallop to the beast, spurring or whipping heels with the end of halter
or halter when he was not going to do hair, without a bridle or reins
of any kind.

The first years of the youth of Juanita had been difficult, because
his mother had not yet achieved the remarkable reputation enjoyed
after, I had the welfare and wealth that we have already spoken.

Juanita was never a crumb, but his mother taught him to sew and embroider
beautifully; and school teacher, it took a lot of affection, taught
to read and write free their leisure time.

Since he was nine years, Juanita was of great assistance to his mother, who until much later
not had the luxury of having a maid.

Juanita sweeping and mopping, washing dishes, and some rooms whitewashed facade the house, which
was the cleanest of the population, and even grabbed his water jug ??and was the miraculous
source of the ejido, which poured a stream pipe as thick as the arm
of a robust man, with such an abundance of water, that many gardens
were watered it and made lush, delightful Villalegre around, contributing
not little to the town deserve this name.

Water also was exquisite for its transparency and purity, as filtered through rocks of the nearby
hills, and had very pleasant flavor and very healthy condition. The people of people attributed
to him, finally, some prodigious qualities, calling it very vinaigrette and very wheat. He
meant by this that the carrier it bought in vinegar Villalegre yolk, usually strong, only two-thirds
filled cavity corambre and just filled the early morning, before your journey, mitigating
and smoothing with water from the source strength and bitterness
of the liquid, and earning it, of course, Thirty-three percent, but
sold the vinegar at the same price it was purchased.

Wheat was also the source water because its rare qualities consented, though difficult operation
and should be done with great secrecy, that using a broom palm dwarf, it is sprinkled with
wheat that was going to sell, leaving it exposed to sun for to dry.

So the wheat got better taste, and although the outside was dry, kept by in some of the liquid
and sponge and grew in weight and volume.

This source had yet another merit and provided another notable service, because in addition to a
great pillar that went to drink and drank all the beasts of burden and work and bulls cows and
oxen, and also another pillar under which used to be watering of sheep and pig, filled with its
crystal waves albercón spacious enclosure walls that hid in view of passers-by, where women
were washing clothes, rolled up skirts thigh and stuck in water up to the knee, as there is use,
even in the rigor winter. Lush and gigantic black poplars and pines and reeds surrounding the
source and make this place shady and delightful. At the foot of the best trees are made of stone
benches and clay and covered with slabs, which usually sit in the gentlemen and ladies post-ride.
Almost every evening there is assembled gathering and pleasant conversation, being the more consistent
the notary, the apothecary, our Don Paco and the priest, who touch
to recite the Angelus prayers, which all satisfy his hat and crossed
himself and crossing.

Pillar around chatting the girls who come by water, each with a pitcher, and often Cardigans make
the paper with as many carriers Eliezeres go there to drink, if not their camels, their mules
and donkeys. Also next to and within the albercón, and within walking distance it, where there
is a fence or hedgerow of blackberries, pomegranates, and honeysuckle, which limits and defends
the gardens, and on which the hedge is dried laundry, extends and expands the democratic and
popular gathering a lot of talk, laughter, hassles and frolic, as
there are missing never zagalones and even grown men who go out there
attracted to girls, as the sparrows go to wheat.

V

Juana la Larga, as already stated, through its continuing activity, order and economy, around
which her daughter helped her with intelligence and zeal, had improved position and fortune. He had
a very hard working maid, sweeping and scrubbing, and under the direction
of Ladies cooked well, leaving these free time to pursue their lucrative
trades.

Juanita The main office was sewing and embroidery, which had deployed to higher proficiency that
of his mother.

Juanita did not have to be used in lower occupations. But now it was for innocent vanity, or
desire to look for the grace of his person, wish not realized, pray for Juanita need from physical
exercise and to show and display power their healthy nature, Juanita, and even seventeen years
of age, liked to go for water the source of the ejido, paving sometimes,
despite the well off his mother's position and it albercón going to
wash some clothes when the clothes were fine, she feared, or pretended
fear that rougher hands than his will damage it.

The truth was that this albercón and go to the source, rather than
fatigue was recreation and relaxation for Juanita, which amused the
other girls with their sharp words and happy occurrences the cap was
removed and laugh enjoyed popularity and favor among them.

Juanita was already a pretty girl in every sense of the word. Housework had not spoiled her
pretty, shapely hands, and neither the sun nor the air had tanned his skin brunette. His black hair
with blue highlights, was well kept and clean. Do not put it or sweet almond oil or blandurilla
of any kind, but plain water with an infusion fragrant herbs to wash better. I was pulled high
on the occiput, in braids, which tied then, was a bun in the shape
of equilateral triangles, which played in one corner.

As Juanita said that "head crazy not to play" almost always went to the source without tissue
head, looking like the delicacy and neatness of her hair and showing how well planted I was the
head on her graceful neck, only overshadowed by some ricillos often than is subtracted to captivity
that had the longest hair bow. Ahead, collected hair, showed that forehead, straight, petite,
and the temples had large curls fork held there called snails, below which was a patillita soft,
not fixed against the face with psyllium or quince seeds, as do other girls, but left to float
freely rather vague rings or hooks where hanging hearts.

The same freedom that had been raised, and the constant physical exercise, and in useful tasks,
and in games as a boy as a child, Juanita had made, though he had the holy ignorance or had lived
with the recollection that recommend and seek other mothers jealous I had not thought of yet
in matters of love.

Was sought, and requested not to woo a few young men, but brave and surly, he knew lay s, command
respect and hold off the more daring.

Only one was known from childhood tilt persisted in it with constancy,
but this inclination, at least for his part, rather than affection
had traces of brotherly love affection. Who inspired, no doubt sharing
less innocent style, was Antonuelo, master blacksmith's son and nephew
of the chief, who had in place very humble parentage