 She became as white as the tablecloth. The heart wanted to escape the chest.
It was opened ith trembling hands … Ahaa! Sighed rested, after of having eaten in a mere two
seconds. She placed his hand on his chest. Then wild the sweat away with a handkerchief, then resumed
rereading the letter with pace.

It was infact Cecilia, it was written in a gently ironic tone that had nothing offensive about
it. Manifested, surprised at his sudden as well as unexpected return. What the bee had stung after
four years of absence? His parents whom before him had opened the letter wer as surprised as he was.
They thought it was thoughtless for a few years. A fraction of a second which would probably soon after
be regreted. She agreed with this perspective completely. Although she had been permitted and even
recommended to answer to the family that maintained the relationship.

This letter will soon be gone and dismissed as expected. Then again he simultaneously became sad
and happy over the course of the next minute. Reading and rereading it to see if it had the
key. Was it truth or false. He replied to fast and apologized for his boldness and confirmed his previous
statement with new found precision. He after a few days replied to the child in a more kind and affectionate
way. He turned to writing Gonzalo but Dona Paula intervened. To be swift after a short time two young
men entered a formal relationship. He began to speak of marriage between Don Melchor and his nephew
in letters. Then after he visited Ron Rosendo. Finally after this everything was settled, thy agreed that
Gonzalo would return in spring to perform the marriage.

The love between the couple began to make them think in the nest
they would remain out the theatre and those who were there.

Gonzalo stumbled upon a group of people who spoke a the door.

He was recognized
they quickly surrounded him to greet him.

The first to through their arms around his neck was Don Mateo then
came Don Pedro Miranda and his child.

Then mayor roque after victoriano and his wife Dona Roasario along with his three daughters.