 

  6. Happy and encouraged with one another notice, signed up new recruits,
  and after having strengthened by the sacrament of Penance and the
  Eucharist, for three or four days, 200 of the town of Santo Angel,
  (because these threaten to the risk of closer) stirred the old
  memories, that few years earlier by the same way, some Portuguese
  had penetrated to his people, who, although ranchers compatriots
  knew now was suspected spy. Also were armed nearly 200 of
  each of the other people, and 100 were the people of Sao
  Tome in the same site by grass, and 60 of the San Lorenzo
  together in the same task, which with neighboring landowners
  of composing an army in nearly 1,200 men.
  
  7.

  While preparing this expedition on Sunday Septuagint, (it
  was early in the morning) one I spoke on behalf of Army captain
  and asked to go with them by a solicitor and spiritual health.
  Excuse me this burden for the well-known slander, which the
  Portuguese and Spanish tend forging Little has as it had taught
  me the experience, however, considering that if any army
  in adolescents way of any serious illness, or prostrate with some
  wound, was to go at once to confess to, if my name, complied,
  to have the true and supreme power of vicarious Christo. Captains
  who had judged themselves that authority, so that no soul is deprived
  of the sacraments, and provided salvation through no fault,
  and thus provided for the expedition, cleaned internal stains of
  sins.
  

  8. Finally, having left their villages to the mountains of yerba
  mate, three days before the closest road, other came from more
  remote parts, but as soon as they heard the sound of the enemy
  had been false, had sent explore, run these all the
  earth, and not having found no trace of enemies, but only a
  few fogoncillos, left of the barbarians, and having found that
  the aforesaid rumor had been spread by cleverly Santo Tome fugitive
  Indians were doing grass is restore them to their own people,
  although it is noted that Portuguese after them confessed that
  200 Paulista the surrounding villages had come, but that view
  the tops of the trees in the crowd of Indians, had retired.
  
  9. The news of taking those twelve cars and no guns confirmed,
  the lie was eventually forgotten, and no confirmation came from the
rooms in San Luis.

  
  
  10.

  May 3rd day afternoon mail came a warning, The soldiers of San
  Luis and San Juan, had rushed to the strong that the Portuguese
  had already made the stakes in the Rio Grande, but his attempt
  went wrong them, because having our men rushed to the dawn of
  the twenty February 3 payment of the Portuguese was already fortified,
  these fled at first, but after having gone on Indians who were
  entertained in the debris, they killed Johannine and shotguns
  à 14 to 12 Luisistas, and forced to away, having died also
  some of the Portuguese. When Indians withdrew, they heard on the
  other hand the fusilazos, and suspected that Lorenzo were in action.
  Este news expected over all, but it is then people spread over
  an unfortunate rumor.
  
  11.

  Also at this time are advised that in the fields of Yapey Spanish
  800 were seen, and having escaped the ranchers, the had seized the
  sheep. It doubted the truth in this case, and the captains of the
  other races came together counsel with the de la Concepcion (who
  was then supreme): But what was agreed, are ignored.
  

  12. Already talked to more foundation of the action of Luisistas,
  five years now, at one end of the San Luis land: between the
  rivers Great, Green, and Yacuí Guacacay, the Portuguese had
  settled in a forest and people had built a sufficient number of
  homes without News of the owners of the land, a short distance
  grazed their cattle, and though he had been often sent to
  explore land, never came to those terms, and by the vastness
  of the territory, and by his innate laziness. Now, finally, in this
  variety of things, having discovered the most vigilant enemy
  that colony, and having explored, 110 Luisistas went to attack,
  and nearly 200 Johannites. Undertaken storming the day
  February 22, the night of 23 came near her, and made its
  appearance at dawn easily put to flight the inhabitants, who were
  unprepared. Having taken over the village, entered houses, and
  took care of the loot, leaving their weapons. Meanwhile the
  enemy had fled, returned on which were busy in looting and without
  arms, and forced them to lease payment again because the
  dew of the night, and Having spent the river to swim, they
  had disabled the guns, no spears can not handle the dense forest.
  Because of the houses taken their weapons, attacked the Indians,
  and forced them to give way to withdraw to the real. Died
  from both sides a few: the Indians 22, among whom was a
  lieutenant of the San Luis (captain courageous Indians) that
  the homeless own and fighting bravely to the last one, was imprisoned
  by the crowd, and having tied his hands, died released by enemies
  who were on him. Of the Portuguese seems that killed 12, leaving
  others slightly injured, and of us were wounded 26. 16 Luisistas
  returned to observe enemy movement and also to bury the dead, even
  if by force. Others retreated to their land and people, waiting
  for new supplies. Also the Luisistas other returned to his
  village, I do not know if shame if fear, or for any mutual dissension.

13.
  Later in the same town enlisted new recruits and perhaps because,
  as prisoners who perished in war homeless were not spiritual physician,
  called for relief of their souls to him who had done the same
  time Lenten mission at the same place. Consented to this to
  so pious prayers, doubts the recharged without remorse
  his own conscience, taking care to his life and soul of those Indians
who were in danger.

  Then he returned to his people are prevented for the road, and
  went to the rooms that are at the foot of the mountain. On March
  3, followed after an armed squad, albeit slowly, in response
  to weakness and fatigue of the donkeys, and formed the field to
  12 April Guacacay rivers, large and small. They crossed the river
  the Masters of San Luis to San Juan near its mouth to tell the
  people of San Miguel, which should come to their aid, because was
  necessary to charge the enemy with many people, since the situation
  was higher and stronger. However, the disagreeing Confederate reduced
  their business and common interest to fight, because these
  from their colony of San Juan, still resentful of the Luisistas,
  by a recent scandal or stumbling, and not have asked and begged
  the alliance for the assault that had done, and now offended by
  the manner in which had convened, the mutually threw sparks of discord.
  Those reproached the same owners of the land have done almost
  all the aforesaid low invasion favorably, have been the first
  who had fled and left in the danger to his companions, and
  thus reused back again to try his luck.
  
  14. Negotiated with each other: these by word, those written to
  be agreed and unite their encouragement and weapons almost
  this cluster of reasons: "That was not civil dissensions time,
  being an enemy stranger à the door to the most often siblings discordant
  for contempt, when more urgent the evil that threatens: that
  were to join forces so that each by itself was not again
  discarded, and a fatal dissension to grow at Victor enemy boldness
  and pride: the arrows one by one are easy to break, but not being
  linked: when burning the house next door, every citizen comes to
the rescue, and so as he burns a house, the whole town would turn
to ashes whether citizens or residents not defend themselves, happened
to them.

  "These and other such things are proposed, and seemed to calm
  things down. He added not a little weight letter arrived from
  the town council of San Juan, which persuaded the union, and obedience
  to them both captains.
  
  15. Expected from Michael, or a squadron assistant, or their
  responses. Also it was said, that Nicole and Conception and
  came: the excuse of not Lorenza have come before yesterday,
  attributing it to the long distance: others were preparing their
  arms, and having been sent some to explore, observe the progress
  and movements of the enemy; asked eagerly came together quickly
  all the legions. While this was said, was advancing towards the
  Rio Grande, to whom the Indians called Igaya, ie bitter.
  
  16. Uruguay River was calm, all things were silence from the Spanish,
  and one large unit war remained a project, nor the winter that
  had already started, allowed otherwise.

  In the recent meeting which had concluded, ambassadors came to
  the Yapeyú, each of the peoples of the other side of Uruguay,
  and also some more remote, the principal chiefs, because as he
  ran the known that the minds of those inhabitants were discordant,
  and that one with the heroes, were inclined to feel the unanimous
  confederation to suppress the enemy, and others with the captain
  of people did not want to take up arms, were there to renew
  and promote the alliance and bring his party to the captain
  yet the people.

  A truth that was hidden the Army, but this Embassy filled with
  joy again and curia or council, joined the heroes with the
  captain, and the people with the heroes, and ported to its
  so beautifully, they returned to their own places, and formed the
  confederation agreed, and together told certainly not seen any enemy,
  and yes only a few thieves and spies, who had been killed and stripped
  of all their mounts.
  
  17. By this time the priest of San Borja, having been called Little
  has by superiors, and having been sent to the Trinidad, it was
  said that had also gone down the Parana to the Spanish cities, and
  that another had been put in Instead, after that first the priest
  of St. Joseph for some time commission and met there a secret pesquiza.
  These things happened at the Spanish border.
  
  18. And back to ours, and to the Portuguese, and approached Michael
  with his captain, that little has be had retired from other
  people, (this was Alexander vice-governor of San Miguel)
  and the certain coming of those the publishing fame, and confirms
  or Sepé testified, one of the most famous captains.

  
  
  19. Meanwhile on the field celebrating Easter with devotion possible,
  and met the ceremonies and rites church, the place and time permitting,
  the Commemoration of Holy Passion of the Lord, while in churches
  solemnly sing Alleluia, there were two parts artillery with
  his guards and custodians.

  Down after the hills, and formed squads under six flags
  had more than 200 men. Saliéronles to meet the Luisistas squads
  with two banners, and greeting mutually, bringing its patron
  saint and other images of saints, (The ones people use to always
  carry it) to a chapel made of palm branches, and having run the
  horses, and made his profession of arms style, went à a nearby camp
site, and camped at the place appointed for the real.

  
  
  20. The next day, which was the Resurrection of the Lord and April
  12, held before the ceremony, (to wit, with Procession and Solemn
  Mass) one of the captains went to the Johannites, which, although
  they were neighbors, they had just arrive, and said that would
  come the next day, that is, third Passover. Miguelistas impatient
  of the delay and stimulated with the old dissensions, reuse
  expected, and were strong in themselves to take the road
  Luisistas towards the enemy.
  
  21. Are encouraged to reason and sacred, political: it is
  namely, being weak forces do not support the agreement: this never
  would have if you were looking for new reasons disagreement,
  that one should not only rely on themselves forces against an enemy
who, although outnumbered, they excelled on the site, the skill of
firearms and experience: they were also empty all the forces men,
and vain the crowd, the Lord of hosts that not protect us stronger,
then there is no hope any victory: that God hates the enmity, that
is drives away with discord, and uranium is sold or placed with dissensions.

  The same preacher began by egemplo its suffering, which had hoped
  for two months, and so wait a day, which had been expected for
  months. Silent masters, and consented to wait until the day
  Easter rearward.
  
  22. The Lorenza back again with their excuses, exposes the weakness
  and fatigue of his horses, and therefore they said, would send
  30 soldiers to help, that they would defend their lands, and
  on the other hand fight with the enemy.

  Seemed frivolous the excuse, because the others had longer paths
  traveled also tired horses, or seemed that we would have had
  to compromise with the animals, while in threatening land.
  And so it did not allow the excuse, and they notice that if it
  took, they guard their homes, and look to the future. Did not
  seem appropriate to wait, because as others were distant and withdrawn,
  were to cause prejudicial delay, or as few people (there were
  about 60) could give much relief to compensate the damage that
  was judged would cause the delay.
  
  23. It was now the day was to reach the Johannine, and still had
  passed, and yet did not seem, however his field was
  far only three or four leagues. Shortly after noon, was the passage
  of San Juan Mayor first vote, which was sent by the council
  and the people, to take the government instead of the real
  Ensign, who sent his detachment, and was the head and leader of the
dissensions, the which had already been made known to those who sent
in people.

  Then the point was dispatched, and was entrusted give haste
  to their own: finally came after some of them of vespers, and was
  received as the day before yesterday, the Miguelistas. But
  he shone in all his bad mood, because came without flags, without
  pomp, and with a mournful silence, and the very soul of the
  war, the drums and trumpets just rang. With that being adjusted
  after vespers, and each gave their advice, and it seemed that all
  conspired to same thing.
  
  24. Then the next day, which was the 17th of April, leaving the
  sun, invoked the Holy Spirit of the Lord Mass solemn, and how that
  allowed the time: there were those who is strengthened by the
  sacrament of penance and communion. Made after signal bonded horses,
  saddled, removed the shops, went to the chapel, and offered to Lord
with prayers and rites that usually these people.

  Finally at the foot of the hill squads were formed, reviewed,
  numbers, and did not appear was full ò met the army because
  they had not yet crossed the river the San Juan squads, and those
  who were there came out of their real, demonstrating their courage
  abated not enough. Those who then were present, seemed to
  reach the number of 200, debiéndose increase to 500
  more, then it all came together. Meanwhile made his way to jubilation,
  à are trumpets and boxes.
  
  25. Chico Guacacay crossed the river at the foot of these mountains,
  night was seven leagues distant from the residence of
  San Borja: The following was past the hills of Arar. Having
  come to this site, went to meet the explorers, the people there
  set a pole and brought by news that the enemy had fortified
  the woods with Fagin and land checkpoints, and that did not pass
  the number of 50 men however just knew that certain thing.
 