 Or you lack some caudalejo of philosophy, which has persuaded me to you would
like more than any other this writing of a sage.

First it was written in the ancient Chaldean, which neither you nor I know, and was translated
into Arabic for recreation of the sultan named Ulug-beg, in the times that Arabs and Persians
were given to write the Thousand and One Nights, The Thousand and One Days, etc. Ulug most liked
to read to Zadig, but more amused with sultanas is the Thousand and one. Ulug he said unto the
wise, how could bear with patience some stories without head nor
tail, that meant nothing.

Well, that is why are to our liking, answered the sultanas.

I hope you do not look like them, and you're a true Ulug, and not mistrust that when you were
weary of talks as instructive as the Thousand and one, although much
less recreation, can I have the honor that you take a few minutes
of wandering in things you hear me those on right.

If time scandir, son of Philip, would have been Thalestris, or the queen of time Sabean Soleyman of
these kings have been those who have made pilgrimages to see you.

I beg your heavenly virtues carry no bitterness delights be lasting
your beauty and your chance for life.

SADI.

CHAPTER ONE.

The one-eyed.

King Moabdar reign, lived in Babylon a young man named Zadig, of good character, which education
had improved. Did bridle his passions, though handsome and rich, and spent affectation, and he
insisted on always give him the reason, and respected human frailty. Pasmábanse all seeing as
he had plenty of wit, never taunted with chufletas of the perturbation bad yarn, the baseless rumors
of the crazy decisions, minstrels of ridicule, which the Babylonians called conversation. In the first
book Zoroaster had seen that love is itself a ball full of wind, and coming out of it storms so that
the sting. Not that Zadig was praised to no appreciation for the women, and that dominated. It
was liberal, but undeterred we fear to do good to ungrateful fulfilling the great commandment
of Zoroaster, who says: "Give food to the dogs" Quando you eat, even bite you "after." Quanto was
wise man can be, for he tried live in the company of the sages had learned the science of the
Chaldeans, and was instructed in quanto about the physical principles of nature in his time
was known, and metaphysics quanto knew everything at all times have
known, that is to say very little.

Most firmly believed that a year has three hundred sixty-five days and a quarter, against what
he taught modern philosophy of his time, and that was the sun in the center of the world, and when the
main magicians told him in a tone of reproach, and looking sideways, that sustained early sapient
haeresim, and that only an enemy of God and the state could say that the sun revolved about
its exe, and that was the year of twelve months, Zadig was silent, without frown or shrug shoulders.

Opulent,
and therefore not lacking friends, enjoying health, being handsome, wise and moderate, with
chest naive, and elevated mood, thought he could aspire to be happy. Was bespoken Semira her
marriage, which her beauty, her dowry, and his birthplace, was the best wedding Babylon. Zadig Profesábale
a sincere and virtuous love, and Semira loved him with passion. Verged and the happy day that
would link them, when two lovers walking outside Gates of Babylon, Baxo some palms that shaded the
banks of the Euphrates, they saw approached by men armed with cutlass and arrows. These were
some of the youth executioners Orcan, nephew of a minister, and as such the sycophants of his
uncle he had been persuaded to which they could do quanto he pleased. None of the clothing and possessed
virtues of Zadig; but believed that long preceded him, was in despair at not being the favorite.
This jealousy, mere children of his vanity made him believe he was in love Semira, and wanted
to steal it. Habíanla caught the robbers, and the outburst of violence had hurt her, pouring
the blood of a person who by his presence Imao tigers would have tamed the mountain. Pierced
Semira the sky with their cries, crying, Dear Husband, I have to whom ye I love it! Not moved
the danger in which he was, as his dear Zadig alone in thought. Defendíala this with all the
boldness of love and courage, and with the help of two slaves drove alone to the robbers,
and he brought to Semira bloody and faint, that opened my eyes met their freedom. O Zadig! said
to him, I loved like my husband, and now I want like that life whom I am indebted and honored.
Never overflowed one breast more tender affection than Semira, never so pretty mouth spoke
so vividly of those expressions swollen that the gratitude of the highest benefit and the
most tender affection of most legitimate abductions are children. His wound was slight, and
he recovered soon. Zadig was wounded in greater danger, because an arrow had made a deep wound
near the eye. Semira importuned to the Gods the cure of her lover: Day and night eyes bathed
in tears, waited impatiently Zadig moment that they could enjoy in looking at, but a boil that
formed in the injured eye caused the greatest fear. Memphis sent to call the doctor famous Hermes,
who came with a swollen entourage, and having visited the patient stated that inevitably perdia
the eye, predicting up to the day and time that had happened so fatal dismantling. If there
been, he said, the right eye, I would heal, but the wounds of the left have no cure. All Babylon
hurt the fate of Zadig, while it was amazed at the profound science Hermes. Two days after the
boil burst naturally, and healed Zadig. Hermes wrote a book, proving that there should be healed,
the qual Zadig did not read, but then he could out, went to see who expected that of happiness,
and who only wanted to have eyes, he found himself in his fifth Semira three days to, and knew
the road Zadig, who, after to declare resolutely that he had an invincible antipathy to the
one-eyed, beautiful lady Orcan had married that night. Desmayóse to hear this news, and was
in no that your pain will conduxera the tomb, but after a long illness, but the reason could
that feeling, and it was no small part of the same atrocity comfort of the grievance. Well I
am a victim, he said, of so cruel whim of a woman raised in the palace, I will marry a daughter
of a respectable neighbor.

Chosen because of Azor wife, a damsel very sane and best nature,
in whom there is any defect noticed more nothingness, and there is
little inclination to believe The cutest boys were always the most
wise and virtuous.

CHAPTER II

Noses.

One day she returned from walking Azora all immutable and decomposed by gestures: What are you,
dear? Zadig said to him, what is so far beyond what you made thee? Ay! replied Azora same hicieras
you, if you had seen the scene I just witnessed, had gone to console Cosrúa to the young widow has
erected two days ago, a mausoleum of the deceased young man, husband yours, it is the stream that
bathes the prairie, swearing to the gods, in their pain, they would not depart in the vicinity
of this tomb, whilst the stream is not moved its flow. Well done, 'said Zadig, that's a sign that
a woman is well, that really loved her husband. Ha, replied Azora, if you knew it was his occupation
Quando qual went to see her .-- Qual era, beautiful Azora? - Dar another channel for the stream.
Azora then added many invectives, burst into such a bitter accusations against the widow girl,
who under very upset to Zadig as boastful. A friend of his named Er, was one of the waiters
who was said Azora by merit and integrity more than others, Zadig she trusted him his secret,
hold, in quanto he was able, with Quanti loyalty gifts. Azora After spending two days in a
villa of her friend returned to his home the third. The servants told him crying that night
had fallen dead suddenly her husband, who had not dared to bring bad news, that ended Zadig
to bury in the grave of his parents at the end of the garden. Azora cried, mesábase hair,
and swore he did not want to live. That night asked permission to speak Cador with her, and
wept both. The next day I cry less, and ate together. Cador Fiole that he had forsaken his
friend most of his wealth, and gave him to understand that their
greatest that would be able to part with it.

That the lady wept, was angry, and then subsided; and as the dinner was longer than the food, speak
both with more confidence. He Azores eulogy of the deceased, confessed, however, that suffered
from some small defects in Cador were not.

In the middle of supper Cador complained of intense pain in the spleen, and the lady concerned
and scared traxeran you sent all that is perfumed with essences, to test whether any remedy
was a against the pains of the spleen; feeling much he had gone already wise Babylon Hermes,
and deigning to touch the side where Cador felt such great pain. Do you usually I give you this
pain so cruel? said to him compassionately. Two fingers of the grave makes me sometimes, replied
Cador, and there is only one remedy for relief, which is applied to the cost the face of a
man who died the day before. Bizarre choice! he said Azora. There is more rare, said Cador,
the horns of deer that put children to preserve the evil eye. The latter reason with the waiter
a lot of merit determined after the lady. Finally, he said, if my husband's nose is a little
shorter in the second life that the first, not that he has to keep out the angel Asrael, when
crossing the bridge Sebinavar, to move from the world of yesterday morning. Saying this, he
took a knife, went near the grave of her husband bañándole into tears, and to cut off the noses
Baxo; but Zadig who was lying in the grave, one hand clutching his
nose, and diverting the knife with the other, rose suddenly exclaimed,
again do not say much bad about Cosrúa, that the idea of ??cutting
my nose well they can gamble in moving to the current a stream.

CHAPTER III.

The dog and horse.

Zadig soon saw that, as the book of Zenda-Vesta, if the first month of marriage is the honeymoon,
the second is the aloes. Very quickly saw himself compelled to repudiate the Azores, which
had become unbearable, and tried to be happy studying nature.

There be more fortunate, he said, that the philosopher who studied the great book of God in
the eyes men. The truths he discovers are his property, supports and enhances your mood, and
lives in quiet, without fear of others, and without the coming of his tender wife to cut off
noses.

Steeped in these ideas, retreated to fifth on the banks of the Euphrates,
which was not involved to calculate quantas inches of water pass each
second Baxo the arches of a bridge, or whether month mouse cubic rain
water line more than the ram, or devised to make silk with cobwebs,
or porcelain with broken bottles, studying, yes, the properties of
animals and plants, and soon grangeó a sagacity that made him play
thousands of differences where others saw only uniformity.

A day strolling beside a grove, he saw a eunuch come running from the Queen, accompanied several
employees of the palace, all seemed full of anxiety, and ran everywhere like hell they're looking
for the most precious thing they have lost. Mancebo, told him the main eunuch, Did you see
the queen's dog? Zadig answered modestly: no dog is bitch. You are right, "said the chief eunuch.
It is a very small fine bitch, Zadig continued, that has borne little has, coxa of the left
foot forward, and has very long ears.

How that you have seen? he said the first eunuch beside himself. Certainly not, "replied Zadig,
or I have seen or knew that the queen had no dog.

Pass that by a quirk of chance had been missed at the same time the hands of a groom of the king
the best horse in the royal stables, and were running for plain of Babylon. Iban behind him
the Horse and all his subordinates to not less urgency that the chief eunuch behind the dog,
the groom He went to Zadig, and asked if he had seen the king's horse. That is a horse, 'said
Zadig, who has the best canter six feet tall, the tiny hoof, tail and fourth long pole, the
snack gold brake is twenty-three carats, and eleven silver horseshoe
money.

Why where has it gone? Where is it? asked the equerry. Nor have I seen, "said Zadig, or I have
never heard of him.

Or to the Horse or the chief eunuch was clear that they had stolen the horse Zadig the king and
queen bitch, conduxeronle it to the assembly of large Desterham, which sentenced to two hundred
lashes and six years in prison. No sooner had given the sentence, when seemed the horse and the dog,
so that judges were in the painful precision to cancel his sentence,
he nevertheless condemned Zadig to a fine of four hundred ounces of
gold, because he had seen had said Queno having seen.

First paid the fine, and then allowed pleyto defend against the advice of the great Desterliam,
where he said this:

Astros justice founts of knowledge, mirrors of truth, which lead to the seriousness of Unix the hardness
of iron, the brightness of the diamond, and no little affinity with gold, allowed siéndome speak before
this August assembly, I swear by Orosmades, have never seen nor respectable dog of the Queen, nor
the sacred horse of the king of kings. The event has been like going to count. Walking walking
in the grove where he later met the venerable eunuch, and the illustrious groom higher. Observed
in the sand the tracks of an animal, and easily met was a small dog. Long and thin grooves, printed
in heaps of sand between the tracks of the feet I made it known that was a bitch, and her tits
hung, where I gathered that he had calved a few days to. Other remains in another direction, which always
look flush dexaban sand beside the front foot, showed me that he
had long ears, and as the footsteps of one foot were less deep in
the sand than the other three, pulled by consequence it was, if I
dared to speak, a little bitch coxa of our August queen.

In quanto a horse of the king of kings, the truth is that pacing the sidewalks of the forest,
I noticed the signs of the hoofs of a horse, they were all at the same distance. This horse,
dixe, has the perfect canter. In a narrow road that has no more than two and a half yards wide,
was at left and right to sweep the dust in some Parages. The horse, I guess I have a glue stick
and fourth, with its moves to right and to left, has swept this dust. Vnder trees forming
a canopy of two yards high, were freshly fallen leaves of the branches, and knew that he had
forsaken down the horse, which therefore had two Yaras. Your brakes must be gold of twenty-three
carats, because, having scrubbed his head against a stone snack I've seen was playing, I did
the test.

Finally, brands that have forsaken the horseshoes on rocks other species have proved that I was
eleven silver money.

Abode stunned all the judges with astute sense to Zadig, and the news came the king and queen. In
lobbies, rooms, cabinets and did not speak more than Zadig, and King ordered him to be A REFUND OF
THE fine of four hundred ounces of gold they had been sentenced since there were few magicians burn
opinion as a sorcerer.

They went with great pomp home to the clerk of the cause, sheriffs and prosecutors, to take their
four hundred ounces, not save costs by more than three hundred ninety-eight clerks truth is
that They asked for a gratuity.

Zadig was looking very dangerous thing to know too much, made firm purpose of not saying On another
occasion I had ever seen, and the occasion was not long in coming. A state inmate escaped,
and passed vnder Zadig balconies. They took the statement as he had not declared nothing, and
having established that he had out on the balcony, was sentenced
by size Crime do to pay five hundred ounces gold, and thanked the
judges for their great kindness, that this was the custom in Babylon,
Great God, he said Zadig each other, which unfortunately is who walks
in the woods where you pass the King's horse, or the dog of the Queen!

What Hazard, who runs his balcony overlooks!

How very difficult it is to be happy in this life!

CHAPTER IV.

The envious.

Zadig appealed to friendship and comfort to the philosophy for the ills that had made the fortune.
In a suburb of Babylon had a house furnished with much taste, and there met arts and recreation
worthy of a fine man.

In the morning his library was open for all the wise and evening his table to persons of good
education. But very soon he perceived it was too dangerous to try to scholars. Suscitóse a fierce
debate about a law of Zoroaster, which forbids eating faucet. "As they are not the faucet, said
one, if no such animal? Force is that it has, said others, when you
do not want Zoroaster eat. Zadig, by them comply, he said to them:
I do not eat faucet, if there are taps, and if not available, we will
eat less, and thus to obey Zoroaster.

There was a wise writer who
had composed a work in thirteen folio volumes about properties of
the taps, great Theurgists, which went to all haste to submit to the
Archmage Drastanés, the most foolish, and consequence to the most
fanatic of the Chaldeans to those remote times