 Had a day's whim neck hanging
from the stork three Sanskrit poetry, truly made for him because is very clever and used student.
He wanted to tease someone, without providing for those who tease. And as luck that the lines
fall into your hands and you were you the teased. What else could have happened, you know better
than me.

- Yes I know, "said Poldy, and sadder and more dejected than angry.

And now I ask: Is incompatible to be odds-and belonging to the nobility?

- In any way incompatible. Subject of many bells in the day like today to bazaars, and buying
and selling antiques and curios of all kinds. I have heard Isidoro say the same, having just returned
from his travels, in Lisbon, had tremendous dime no less than Palha, individual one of the
most illustrious and ancient Portuguese families, as witnessed by Cervantes in Don Quixote.
And without going so far in the very capital of Austria, is an egregious count who has a store
of glassware, and a very distinguished gentleman who has wool fabrics
in the streets of Carinthia.

Why then, without dishonor of its bells and coats of arms, not having a dime a man of noble
lineage?

- Perhaps, said Poldy, Isidore of Ziegesburg into that account.

Perhaps your name on the genealogical table of the princely houses, ducal and comital, published
every year the Almanac de Gotha, or at least in the book of the counts,
which also gives annually to the press the same publisher Just Perthes.

-
Do not kid yourself, buddy.

Do not get tired. I must tell you the truth, even grieve. And the truth Isidoro Ziegesburg is a
Jew.

As soon as the Count Henry had uttered that word, that sounded like the trumpet of doom in Poldy
ears burning, raised and educated by his mother and his aunt, from
the tender children in the most ferocious anti-Semitism, when Poldy
began to tremble like a restless and had a violent fit of nervous
laughter.

So violent was that Count Henry was filled with fear, called the nurse and had to bring in
a cup of lime Poldy.

When he finally calmed Poldy, and when he passed his insane laughter, began to sigh and sob, and
poured a flood of tears.

It still felt an odd twitch.

With the handkerchief wiped away the tears, but he rubbed the handkerchief with violence by
the cheeks and lips, as if to pulling the skin and kisses that she
had stamped the Indian prince, converted at odds-Israelite.

XI

After
Poldy got a little calm, fell silent and deep melancholy. Nothing
told her brother or his nurse. They did not dare to question Poldy