 

RYE .-- That wait the phantoms. It can not hold ... And who likes to send, as if the lady of the
house. What smoke so tiresome! Yesterday I pulled the ear ... nearly echo blood ... whippersnapper
called me and said, 'You're doing a gentleman, and I'm going to read the book ...». It is
not intrusive to say, and mais ainda, friend Ido. Last night took the two finest pitchers with
porcelain flowers above and below, you know, and took the very ... He said that here there
was no need for anything. Before yesterday charged with a dozen napkins that were not released
and three tablecloths ... In short, this is the port for grabs-layers. I just want to throw
the high when I see such freshness.

IDO .--=( With malice.) = Do not mess with that, friend Aristotle, the master is the master, and well
is what makes this ... and when he sees it and shut up, there must be ... This morning I walked
into the office saying: "Is there here a bit of paper?", and charged with three reams of letterhead
and three hundred envelopes.

There you have the bits you spend that lady ... Silence seems to me that ...

ROSALIA .--=( From the door, in high dudgeon and very overbearing
tone.) = Felipe!

... I'm calling an hour ago ... You are the greatest calamity that
I have seen.

I do not know how you tolerate Augustine, great lazy ... Let's see ... shirts in your love,
where did you squirt job?

XXXIX

When Augustine was approaching, winning steps at high Amparito housing, Ms. Tia down.

"Oh, are you? - Surprised the wife said Ido -. Is better. Yesterday got up. Ago time has eaten
very well ... Mr No need to call. I left the door open, because back then. "

Amparo was in a chair, well wrapped, covering her mouth with his right hand wrapped in a fold
of the shawl. For the windows of the narrow window looking at the sparrows in neighbor's roof
were a thousand antics, and then fly in groups, disappearing into
the blue sky. The day was splendid, and watching that sky did not
understand the phenomenon existed rain. When he felt the door creak
and looked and saw who was coming in, was about to lose sense. Said
not a word that Entrol idiocy of the previous days. Augustine very
polite, smiled, and handed over with emotion, asked him how he was.
She does not know whether said right or wrong, even if he said anything.
Which had been her boyfriend took a chair and sat down at his side