 

She went on in his story, not wanting to insist against the unyielding wall.

- My father was born Italian but was Austrian by birth ... In addition, blind enthusiasm inspired
him Germanic Empires.

Was among those who abhor its origin and see all the virtues in the people of the North.

Inventor of wonderful business, financial planner colossal companies had spent its existence to
plague the directors of large banking institutions and making precursor in the ministries. Forever
on the verge of striking combinations to be provide tens of millions,
luxurious living in poverty, going from hotel to hotel, if the best,
with his wife and only child.

- You ignore that life, Ulysses, you
come from a quiet family and money.

Yours have not known the existence of device in the "Palace", nor the rush to settle the new
account of the month, making the incorporation to the previous months credit without limits.

She
had seen a child mourn his mother's apartment in the luxurious hotel, talking the father-like
glow, announcing next week a gain of one million.

The wife, convinced by the eloquence of a great man, had dried her tears, powdering his face adorned
with pearls and lace their problematical value. Then down the great hall, full of perfumes, whispers
and moans discrete talks Violins, for tea with friends in the hotel, millionaire formidable of the
two hemispheres, which vaguely suspected the existence of a disease called poverty, but were
unable to conceive that could attack people in their world.

Meanwhile, the child played in the garden of the "Palace" with other girls dressed and adorned
as luxurious and fragile wrists, each of which weighed several million.

- I have been a childhood companion - continued Freya - of women who
are famous for their wealth New York, Paris, London ... I have familiarly
with big millionaire today are, their marriages, duchesses and princesses
of royal blood to.

Many have passed by me without recognize, and I have not said anything, knowing that the equality
of children is nothing more than a vague remember ...

This had come to be women. Several of the parent business casual is allowed to continue existence
of poverty shiny and expensive.

The designer considered necessary such apparatus for their future business. Life in the more expensive
hotels, car for months, costumes large sewing for women and girls, the summers on the beaches
of fashion, skating winter in Switzerland, were for him a kind of uniform of respectability that
kept him the world of the powerful, allowing you to enter everywhere.

- The existence forever shaped me and influenced the rest of my life.

Dishonor, death, all I think preferable to the misery ... I fear no danger, I feel cowardly
to think of poverty.

The mother died, credulous and sensual, tired of waiting for a solid fortune never came. She remained
with her father, being the lady who lives among men, from hotel to hotel, something male in
his manner, the mean virgin, who knows everything, is not afraid of anything, save fiercely integrity
of their sex, calculating what it may be, and love of wealth as the most powerful god of the
earth.

The death of the father, seeing no other fortune than his clothes
and a few artistic gems low price, coldly decided his fate.

- In
our world there is more virtue than the money.

The girls are given the populace less easily than a young lady accustomed to luxury, having
knowledge of only fortune the piano, dancing and a few languages ??... We deliver our body as if cumpliésemos
a material function, without shame and without regret. It's a simple business. The only important
thing is to keep the old life with all its amenities ... relegation.

Hastily passed on memories of this period of its existence. A known his father, an old merchant
of Vienna, had been the first. Then gives flight felt romantic, that females can not escape colder
and positive. He had believed in love with an officer Dutch, a blond Apolo skated with her
in Saint-Moritz. This had been her only husband. At last I was bored the Batavian colonial slumber,
and around Europe, breaking her marriage to resume life in the big hotels, from winter resorts
to luxury beaches.

Oh, money! ... In any social background could recognize their power and in which she lived.
Found in the "Palace" women of rude hand gestures and soldierly, smoking at all hours, his feet
on the back of a chair, showing the rear surface of her thighs up and the white triangle of
her petticoats lying on the seat. Were similar to the whores of the major ports waiting at
the door of their slums. How let them live there? ... However, the men bowed before them as slaves
or the chase pleading. They spoke with reverence of millions inherited from their parents,
riches of its formidable industrial origin, which had enabled them to buy a husband noble,
pass on to their tastes andariegas Maritornes.

- I have not had any luck ... I'm too proud to succeed. Men find me bad character, argumentative,
nervous. Perhaps I was born to be a mother ... Who know if it was another to live in your country!

His
religious veneration for the money it took to say in a tone of hatred.

Poor girls and well educated, if they were afraid to misery, they had no other recourse than prostitution.
They lacked the dowry, a prerequisite in many civilized women to be honored and build a home.

Poverty
Damn! ... There was heavy on his life as a fatality. The men who showed poisoned good at first then
becoming selfish and ungrateful.

Dr. Talberg, Back from America, had abandoned her to marry a rich ugly girl, daughter a businessman,
Senator of Hamburg. Others had also exploited his youth, taking their share of joy and beauty for
women who join after the appeal had only to a large fortune.

She had ended up hating them all, wanting to exterminate them, exasperated at the thought that
I needed to live and would never be freed from this bondage.

To be independent, had been devoted to the theater.

- I danced, I sang, but my successes were always feminine.

The men were behind me, looking at the female and laughing at the artist. In addition, the life
of the racks! ... The target market with a name in the lineup! ... What exploitation! ...

The desire to free themselves had dragged her friend the doctor, accepting his proposals. It seemed
more honorable to serve a great state, be an official secret, working in the shadow of his
greatness. In addition, he won over the principle of working the romance, adventure risky missions,
a proud account of his espionage wove the plot the future, preparing future history.

Here, too, had encountered since the first steps to sexual slavery. Her beauty was a tool to
probe the conscience, a key to unlock secrets, and this easement was worse than previous ones, being
irredeemable. Had gotten away with ease of his life loving woman traveling theater, but entering
the "secret service" I could not leave it. Too many things were learned, is slowly coming to an
understanding important mysteries. The officer was a prisoner of its functions: it was a sandwich,
and with each new act added a new stone wall that separated him from freedom.

- You know the rest of my life - continued -. The obligation to obey the doctor, to seduce to men
to wrest their secret, it made me hate them with a deadly aggression ... But you came, you
who are kind and generous, I searched with a simplicity enthusiastic the same as a teenager, making
back in my life, as if he were still in eighteen years and I saw first courted! ... In addition,
you are not selfish. You see with noble enthusiasm. I think we met in early youth, I would have
left to be rich marrying another ... I refused to be yours because you loved and would not
hurt ... After the mandate of my superiors and my passion made me forget these scruples ... I surrendered,
I was the 'femme fatale' as always: I brought disgrace ... Ulysses! My love ... Forget: there
is no point reminiscing. Know well thy soul, and to me Endangered go there. Save me! Take
me with you! ...

As he stood before him, was enough to raise their hands to put them on his shoulders, starting
the beginning of a hug.

Ferragut remained insensible to the touch. His immobility repelled these appeals. Freya had lot
of running around the world through outrageous adventures, and know books on their own effort,
no need to complicate their tangled again.

The story that had just report was not for him but a tissue of deceit.

- All wrong! - Said dully -.

I do not believe, do not believe ever ... Each time we meet I tell a new story ... Who are
you? When you say the truth, the whole truth of a time?

... Liar!

She, insensible to the insults, speaking of his future remained painfully, as if saw surrounded
by mysterious dangers.

- Where to go if you leave me? ... If I stay in Spain, continued under the domination of doctor.
I can not return to the Empires where I spent my life, all roads are closed and those lands reborn
my slavery ... I can not go to France or England, I have fear of my past. Any of my previous achievements
would be enough to shoot me: no deserve less ... In addition, it
inspires me fear the vengeance of mine.

I know the procedures the 'service' when you need to get rid of an agent who is uncomfortable
in enemy territory.

He himself complaint: voluntarily committed a blunder, makes some
documents are lost, sends a compromising letter with false address,
to fall into the hands of the authorities the country.

What if you do not I help? ... Where can I elite group? ...

Ulysses was decided to reply, pity on his despair. The world is big: I could go to live in a republic
of America.

She did not accept the advice. I had thought the same, but was afraid of the future uncertain.

-
I'm poor, I have little money to pay my trip ... The "service" pays well at first. Then, as we have insurance
because of our past, gives only enough to live with some relief. What am I going to, do in those
lands?

... Should I spend the rest of my life sold in exchange of bread? ... I do not want: rather die!

The desperate assertion of poverty Ferragut smiled mockingly. He looked at the collar Pearl eternally
admirable pad lying on his chest, the thick emerald their ears, coldly brilliant crackled in
his hands. She guessed his thoughts, and the idea of ??selling these gems he produced a major
concern to the terrors that inspired him the future.

- You do not know what this means to me - he said -. It is my uniform, my shield, the pass I
can hold on in the world of my youth. Women who own the land we jewelry
need to continue on unimpeded.

Hotel managers humanize and smile at his brilliance. The possessor does not inspire confidence,
although late in the bill of the week ... Employees borders gallant display: no passport more powerful.
Haughty ladies soften its sparkle at the hour of tea halls where one does not know anyone ... What
I have suffered to get them! ... Arrostraría hunger before selling them. With them is one: can
a person does not have a coin in your pocket and go where they enter the richest, living as they ...

Not
accept the advice. It was as if a hungry soldier offered him their weapons in enemy territory in exchange
for bread. Once satisfied the need, would be prisoner would degraded, equaling the miserable
hours before receiving their shots.

Her face all the dangers and sufferings rather than shed the helmet and shield as symbols
of their superior stock.

The suit over a year, the booties fatigued underwear with tears poorly made, not saddened in difficult
times. The important thing was to have a hat fashion and keep the fur coat, collar of pearls, emeralds,
diamonds, whole armor honorable and glorious, in which he wanted to die.

His eyes seemed to take pity on the ignorance of the ocean, who dared to propose such absurd.

-
It is impossible, Ulises ... Take me with you. In the sea where I can live more safely. Submarines
I'm not afraid.

People imagine they are numerous and tight as paving stones, but
only a ship in a thousand get their attacks ... In addition, you fear
nothing: if our fate is to perish at sea, we would die together.

It was insinuating, seductive, moving his hands on his shoulders, pulling her neck with a passion
that amounted to an embrace. Her mouth spoke, approached the the ocean. Bow lips caress round
initiating a kiss.

- So bad you would live with Freya? ... Do not you remember because of our past? ... Is it
that now I am another?

Ulises remember, indeed, the past, and began to recognize that this
memory was too vivo.

They came to him as distant melodies and voluptuous half-forgotten, bursts of good-smelling meat,
arousing their sexual memory. The contact of the hidden curves, warm and firm, which is pressed
against your chest without losing the turgid hardness, evoked in
Ferragut imagination of a dizzying array of love scenes.

Chastity observed recent times on account of his painful worries
tormented him now as a punishment.

She, who was this revolution with cunning eyes, guessing its contractions face, winning smile,
pressing her face to his. I was sure of his power ... And reproduced Aquarium kiss, that kiss
that shook the back of the ocean, causing hesitation on her legs.

But when he handed over to the suction dominating abandonment, was
repelled, shot manotón by a brutal, like the punch that was thrown
onto the cushions to beginning of the interview.

Someone had come between the two, notwithstanding they were embraced
closely.

The captain, who began to lose consciousness of their actions, as well as a castaway, descending
and down through the layers to vibrant an unalloyed pleasure, suddenly
saw your face Stephen deceased, with glazed eyes fixed on him.

Beyond just saw a picture sad Vanish: Tape weeping as if her tears
were the only ones that could fall on the torn corpse of the child.

-
Ah, no! ... No!

The same was stunned by her voice. It was a wounded
beast roar, a howl of despair dry writhing in torment. 

Freya, staggering
under the rough push, he again tried to approach it, link to back
in his arms, repeating his urgent kiss.

- My love! ... My love ...

Could
not continue. The tremendous hand returned to repel it, but so violently,
that came to give head against the cushions of the couch.

Shook the
door with a rude jerk that it opened its two sheets at once, making
the latch lock.

The woman, tenacious in their desires, got up quickly,
regardless of the pain of the fall