 I'm talking about huge vines, the parasitic luxury and lots of trees and shrubs
The New World, which I had greeted in the days of youth, wandering hunter, between secular forests
of my sweet home. Sometimes it seemed to me that these beings transplant Colombia shook their festoons
floating, not Spanish breezes blow, but under pressure commotion of a secret, by watching a fellow!
Perhaps they would say, in their language mysterious rumors that the man does not understand,
"I recognize ....»

The more vigorous contrast awaited me in the bullring. A magnificent scene of nature, full of life,
majesty, mystery and memories of love, was going to happen a terrible scene noise, frenetic passion
and death .... Instead of the poetry of God and the contemplation delightful, quirky poetry
of heroism wild! It was half past four in the afternoon, and as the bullring, situated towards the
southern end of Aranjuez, was packed with spectators. All classes had gathered there, but in
layers or from floor to floor, according to pecuniary resources. The seats, the boxes and lunettes
in spite of their discomfort and gross structure, cost in general, in the arenas, respectively
the same in the theaters. It's amazing the interest that the show wakes up, giving rise to
the advantageous speculation made by resellers of tickets. Your gain is often fifty percent
and sometimes much higher, when the first Matador is a sword or of the great art notables, princes
of the heroic butchery.

Not making a complete description of the bullfight. No traveler and writer eminent customs boasted
that no matter your skill description: at same if I try to imitate them, or my description would
be pale and mediocre, or to interest much would that be plagiarism. So, I confine myself to
the comments referred to the most salient features of that vigorous
and original drama.

In Colombia, thank God, the bulls are not a permanent institution. Each year, for the feast of
the saint-patron, or the anniversary of independence, there are public rejoicing, essentially
democratic, lasting from three to eight days. During that time, none in the city ??and the people
have other occupation than that of fun, except those who speculate the fun, having fun and doing
business at the same time. There, the holidays are a set curious bullfights, dances, field trips,
drama, raffles and games patriotic songs, banquets and picnics, concerts, exhibitions, rants,
etc.., etc. But it's all popular and the public, everything is free, passenger, and like all original
passenger, passionate and feverish. Spend the holidays, it starts the last stake of the barriers
and balconies makeshift bullring, and there is no trace of the noisy and varied scene. Until
next year, at the same time, it becomes to think about it. In addition, it has not or horse-Torunos
no casualties in the square, and it is rare that dead men tell or seriously injured, in spite
of the disorder which presides over the runs and the wonders of brandy,
liquor chicha and other streams running to the thousands of throats.

In Spain, the bulls are a chronic drama