 

Velazquez made the box, dead Espinola, who became bitter ingratitude; And now I paint for pleasure
or inspiration of others, compensated for the injustice to the winner of flamingos. For your
noble countenance had to fend unknown portrait, perhaps of one would do him before the trip
they undertook together in spite of this, this head not only does not detract from which they
are undoubtedly made to the model, but a of those with more life.

In The Lances, the composition gives complete idea of ??the matter: the diversity of types
depending on origin, the group, not only plausible but required by circumstances, as regards the
interpretation of the moment, may be cited as a model of what should be a box history. Stirling
said, however, in my opinion wrongly, that "Justin of Nassau without its own aspect of Genoese
gentleman, and that the artist seems to have been committed on to emphasize, with some evil,
the contrast between the two camps: on one side Castilian the best looks, the other Dutch uncouth
looking oversized pants with air stupid surprise. "

Instead, Lefort states that Vel치zquez wrote The Lances out of all convention, and is "one of
the most vivid pages of history that has produced the painting: none lets read and penetrate
better, none is more sincere and eloquent by the clear simplicity of execution. " And Justi
says that "few paintings are so evocative, and fewer still reveals a painter endowed with noble
sentiments. "

Nor is equality of opinion regarding how the box is illuminated. Lefort says: "All things in
that great canvas is modeled in broad daylight, openly and boldly, without devices. The air
circulates everywhere, spreading an atmosphere perceived by top that landscape that recedes
tremendous distances, ba침치ndole of clearness, streams and freshness, involving forms, caressing
the contours, resting and bonding between other serious colorations, warm, opulent, that here and
there interspersed discreetly some clear notes to merge them into large and powerful harmony.
" Finally Beruete believes that "modern criticism can perhaps blame the oblique illumination
of the spears and support that is not yours sunlight, diffuse light
of the outdoors so much in vogue today.

"

Indeed, the groups are not bathed in vivid clarity that comes from penetrating high to low and in
the countryside surrounding it, fills and strokes it. To fail on if this is a flaw, would need
to show and no one has succeeded yet, if it is really possible to paint in an open space in
such proportions and a scene of that nature. The variability of light that occurs from moment to
moment changes the whole tone and each party is sufficient to indicate the purpose unachievable.
Hence, the imitation of natural in large outdoor compositions are not always obtained as closely
as in a compound but an approximate closed by equivalences on, and
in this case no one has come where Velazquez on spears.

Lefort and Justi deny that the gentle figure placed to the right part, between the horse of Espinola
and frame, is a portrait of Vel치zquez: Cross-Villamil and Beruete, with better agreement think
so.

To be persuaded of this, just compare that image with the other real known, taking into account of
course, the alteration of features that the printed time to the face.

As a sign of the carelessness of our ancestors and how incomplete
is the news regarding Velazquez collected by Palomino, suffice to
say that he quoted The Lances with only these words: "At this time
he also painted a large picture historians of taking a seat by the
Lord Ambrosio Espinola, for the living room of comedy in the Buen
Retiro, with singular eminence.

"

Relatively minor works produced at this same time, are the Hunt for pigs in the Hole, and Tabladillo
Hunt.

The first, which deteriorated much in the fire at the Alcazar,
was given by Ferdinand VII Lord Cowley in 1846 she sold it at 2,200
pounds to the National Gallery in London