 "Lemon and milk!" In the open spaces of walkers played the bull rogues.
The kids burned Chinese firecrackers and rockets, and all was bustle and confusion. Not far
from me a superabundant old fry their donuts plasticity. The thin membrane, white, very smooth,
was within minutes of the knee buñolera of the napkin nivea, a boiling pan, butter screaming to
take over the mass, which is fluffy in thousand vials, and soon left the donut inviting and tempting,
but dismissing some cloying fragrance.

From time to time, a rocket start tearing up the air, burst into the heights, and burst into jets
of fire, white lights, green, red, glazing with national colors the dark sky. Thundered in
the court the shooting Morterero Marquesas busting bomb, lit up with lightning-fast and clear,
dome and tower.

- Here, Rodolfo! - "Miss me from the lamp .-- You see how beautiful collection.

And I was twenty or thirty watercolors, flowers, fruits and birds,
painted masterfully.

Gabriela never saw more beautiful! Gallant wore a blue suit, a faded blue, pale the color of the sky
on a fall morning.

- We will put in that window. Leave the other for Pepillo so much fun with these things ....

I
repeat, never seemed more beautiful blonde lady.

When looked at in light of the lamp I saw and wrapped in a golden atmosphere. All my projects
came to earth passion asleep woke up panting, and the image of Linilla
present so far in my memory, suddenly vanished in the darkness of
oblivion.

I felt no strength to the Gabriela beauty, defeated, overwhelmed.

- Very cool wind blows ... rare thing in this month.

Surely it has rained in the mountains .... Are not you cold? I do. Is it because I'm very nervous.
I'll get a coat.

He went to the bedroom.

My eyes followed .... Soon came wrapped in a shawl very wide, Plush silk purple.

- You see - he said, sitting in a rocking chair - close to the castle
we ....

At that moment in front of us rose to fifty feet from the
sidewalk, a tree fire the main piece, which was greeted by jubilant
rogues with shouting.

The disciples of flats returned to the fray with festive polka, 'Harlequin',
much in vogue in the fall of the Empire and popularized by the famous
musicians of the Austrian Legion.

- I wanted to talk to you, Rodolfo.

I have to tell many things I have to give very happy news ....

-
Joyful news?

- Yes, very happy ....

- Let's see what they are.

-
Does not deserve you, my friend, I trust those of my heart.

No, certainly not! You have not been frank with me. Linilla thought you and loved each other,
and I said, I wanted to you had me a friend, a sister who would tell you their joys and sorrows
.... And you, Rodolfo, I told the truth ....

- Well, - he went happily - I do not pay in the same currency. I know that love, true love is shy
and modest, who does not like revealing secrets, that strives to live in hiding .... You deserve apology!
But I also know that when we love, when love and I know love is need to talk with one of the
beloved. It is understood that one who knows feel like us. I had dreamed it would be good friends
.... You would confident of my sad love, I love the adventurous you. But the gentleman Rodolfo
did not have confidence, Gabriela, Gabriela the poor who loved and was not happy. And I said
to myself: Happy Linilla! Loves and is loved! ...

In principle, the fires that time. Neither Gabriel nor I returned his face to the street. They
burned tires and wheels, thundered the Marquesas, colorful fireworks flew into the air, and
We did not look anything.

Gabriel continued:

- Tell me .... Is not it true that you're in love with Linilla?

I could not utter a word.

- Is not it true that you love each other? Answer me, Rudolph!

- Listen to me before, Gabriela, such happy news with you so happy.

-
Oh, - burst the beautiful lady, illuminated by multicolored lights
reflections Bengal .-- So glad !.... I want you to share my happiness!

Gabriela sensed what was going to say.

As an invisible being whispered into my ears.

Narrowed eyes, dazzled by the general fire tree fire, and through
the red spot perceived hurt my eyes, I thought I saw Angelina's face
pale and tearful.

- Tell me, I said very quietly Gabriela ...-- ....

-
I wrote!

I wrote! A very tender letter, a very heartfelt letter!

- Who?

- Ernesto.

- Yes?

- Does it surprise you?

- No ... but not expected. The resolution of you ... the wishes of Don Carlos ....

- My father will transfer .... As for me .... I am a woman, that is, I am weak. Ernesto loves
me, I'm sure of it! ... Now I write, begging my forgiveness. Begs, pleads, and I can not despise
because I love him .... Much a woman can .... I will kill you in the heart of fatal passion
Ernesto ... I will be your guardian angel ... and when I see you regenerated, if it no longer forever
that horrible vice ... Give you my hand!

They say I'm beautiful, they say I'm intelligent, I'm kind .... Well, all these qualities will
serve to redeem me .... Do you approve my thoughts?

- And if you
do not get what has been proposed?

- So .... Then I'll love him like
now!

If it's my first love, my only love!

The poor lady looked down, and was thoughtful and silent.

Entered through a window flood of light, and stay, almost dark, lit with melancholy moonlight.
The fireworks were over. Boot hundreds of rockets, fired at once, leaving the atrium. Stood,
laying on the giant space curves, thundered overhead, and explosion flowed streams of gold
dust, hundreds of lights that resembled descending a shower of stones.

The brass band was playing the National Anthem released.

Gabriela Domino his dejection, and said quietly, with stealth expressive accent:

- Today I said to Ernest. Dad ignores it, just you know .... Tell me, Rodolfo: Does Angelina you well,
as I want to Ernesto?

- Yes.

- "And she loves you?

- Yes, very much!

I do not deserve it!

- Well, my friend, are you worthy of it!

The party was over, the crowd dispersed, and the circles of Don Carlos out looking for ladies
to say goodbye.

Half an hour later I was in my house.

I locked myself in my room and wrote very long letter. Ay! A letter that never reached Angelina.

LXI

At
seven, tired of waiting for my aunt Pepilla, I sat at the table.
Jane was quick to serve.

In those moments came the old woman.

- Oh, Rorra! What will you say to me! But, son of my soul, what mass so long! Have you had breakfast?
No? Well here's companion .... Come on, Jane, suddenly prontito,
see you have Rorra go!

...

Pepilla aunt put at one end of the table the book and the rosary, and taking off her shawl threw
himself on the back of a chair.

- Are you going today?

- Yes, aunt, then we end.

There on my desk is a letter to Linilla.

You send it to who comes from San Sebastian.

Today or tomorrow will come the boy ....

- If you saw, Rorra, -
said my aunt hastily - I already coming into care.

Ago more than two weeks that we have no news of Angelina. Before ... Go! ... Holy Week ... Guests
then ... but now ... Castro Pérez girls came from anti .... Why not
write to them?

- Thus would no longer boring!

- Maybe .... Would
you like butter?

Joan, you bring the butter!

I will write this afternoon, so if anyone comes not have to wait .... Then I have to go to
the races.

- Listen, Aunt: If Angelina writes, as you know, then lueguito, I
sent you, the letter.

Mauricio tell you to go through here every day.

- Well!

I will send him clothes.

Mauritius has the face of this good boy.

How friendly! How well spoken!

The aunt was released chatting happily.

I was very happy, very happy.

What fun, Rorra, how nice!

Nothing to deal with the kids .... From the first day I relax ....
I have children already here!

For that Angelina! ... Same as care for a sick! ... I've already said, Rorra, if Angelina does
not marry a sister has to stop of Charity. Its aim, son, is calling!

The other day I told the P. Solis and I said, 'You're right!

"

- Go with you and the P. Solis!

Angelina nun? God forbid! Linilla be wife and mother ....

The old woman looked at me intently, and smiling, he said:

- Would you marry Linilla?

- From all my heart!

- That marriage would be very much to my taste.

They say, but I do not think so, you're in love Gabriela ....

- No, aunt!

You know people say how it happens ....

- For better, child, the better!

I'm very fond of Linilla!

... Gabriela is very elegant, very nice, very rich, how you want!
but where is Angelina ....

It was necessary to leave.

- Well, Aunt
...-- said getting up - it's time, horse riding ....

- Do not say
goodbye to your godmother?

- Yes, why not!

We went to the bedroom.

Aunt Carmen was near the bed, sit-in his chair.

I was laughing and loving.

- Have you leave?

- Yes, Aunt ... I arrive early.

I never saw her more pale and weak, barely heard what he said was almost complete paralysis.
The poor old woman had an arm motionless and fingers contracted.

Extremity had lower strength, the feet were swollen.

- Rorra: - exclaimed Aunt Pepilla - tell your sponsor that you recommended
the doctor.

- Yes, aunt, exercise, plenty of exercise, even around
the room every day, a lap one, godmother!

That being so, sitting, sitting all day, can not be good ...

- But ... if ... I can not! - muttered.

- An effort ....

Aunt Pepa waved me that I saw the feet of the patient.

The was so swollen barely fit into the slippers.

- Right, godmother, you will do everything you send the doctor? -
I said yes, moving head.

- Are not you take drugs?

He smiled and gave a nod .-- Aunt Pepilla eyes were wet. I approached, and kneeling beside
the chair I wanted to hug the old lady.

- Farewell, Auntie! I will come next week.

- Well ... good! - said with great difficulty, and a voice so weak that hardly heard Want .--
God will find me alive! I'm very bad ... but ... Sarmiento neither this nor want to believe.

-
No aunt! - Burst out laughing .-- Are you nervous, why are you so weak ....

- Go ... go, - he said, smiling painfully - give me a hug ....

When I got up and leaned over to kiss her forehead, I saw that the
pale cheeks of the patient two tears rolled two tears of those who
in the face of a corpse appear drops of dew in the bosom of a white
rose.

I left the room with a broken heart.

Aunt Pepa I was silent and downcast ....

Finally he spoke:

- What do you say that?

- Nothing, aunt, that if I had my ... I would not leave me! ...

- When you go back?

- On Sunday .... Ask license.

- Yes, yes, come .... Behold, I stand alone, all alone! ...

- Tell Andrew you come every night ....

- Be sure to come on Sunday!

- I'll be here.

I did not go without talking to Sarmiento. I found him at home.

- Oh, boy .... Have courage! ... Trust in me .... If something seems I have serious, take to
let you know ... I do not want to live deceived .... All things come to an end .... The overall
condition of your aunt is bad, very bad, but again, for now there
is no fear .... Later, any day .... Finally .... God will tell!

Go with God.

Passing talked to Andrew.
- Do not worry, young master. I'll come every night .... Go quiet
.... Last night I was with your aunt and was very happy.

And took
the road to the ranch. The heart was telling me that Aunt Carmen did
not live long .... Seven years of disease! It's about time! ...

LXII

I
dared not ask permission to go to Villaverde, although the news was
received that afternoon not good. Aunt Carmen had very slight fever.
A cold, by way of doctor, and nothing else. However, I was not alone.

We
work on the desktop until eight at night, and sit at the table, I
said Don Carlos:

- Tomorrow, after church, you write those letters,
and in the afternoon we liquidation that. Gabriela want some sheet
music. I say they are on the piano, you pick them up and send them.
There on the table is the list ....

We dined happily. Mr. Fernandez
was in a good mood, and chatted over lunch to taste of the festival
of Villaverde. Then she talked about farm work and the works of railroad.

-
Is to feel, - he said - that the railroad does not pass through Villaverde.
Will be the city Pluviosilla to get more out. In its waters and its
rivers have a source of wealth .... How many factories have now? A
.... For twenty years now and you'll see! ... It would be appropriate
acquire land in Pluviosilla, particularly near rivers .... Within
a few years have to be worth twice what it now costs. Pluviosilla
will not be doubted, the first manufacturing city of the State and
the Republic ....

The servants had already withdrawn. Mauricio appeared
suddenly in the dining room saying someone looking for me.

- Me?
- Asked startled.

- Yes, bring a letter ....

- Who comes?

- I do
not know.

I got up hastily in search of the unknown. I had two letters:
one of Linilla and another of Aunt Pepa. I ran to read.

- What? -
Asked Don Carlos .-- Some care?

I opened the statement. Contained
only a few lines.

"Carmen is very serious. And the doctor sent him
to have and receive five Viaticum. Come then, then, ask permission,
that Don Carlos is not to deny it to you. Consider me. "

I put the
little note in the hands of Don Carlos. He read at a glance, and exclaimed:

-
Well, saddle Mauritius and Go away!

And addressing the young man
added:

- You go with the Lord.

Half an hour later we were going,
and good step on the way to Villaverde.

The night was dark. Back
in the heart of the Sierra flashed distant storm. Could be heard distant
thunder, distant, and from time to time, in the light of lightning,
we discovered the tops of distant mountains. The sky was enveloped
in a network of lightning.

Amenazábanos rain, big drops fell, and
echoed in the nearby forest groves and the step of rushing wind. Hissing
snakes in the bushes of the road thousand insects buzzing in the grass,
and the sound of rain was approaching fast and scary. The trees seemed
spectra, the lights of the candles burning huts in front of a corpse.

We
went at a trot. I was silent and anxious, Mauricio I was diligent
and respectful. The rain did not invade the valley in the mountains
stopped, unloaded there, and soon was cleared heaven. There, due to
Villaverde, twinkling stars of the Big Dipper. The storm was struggling,
but weak and faint, in the far reaches of the Sierra.

"Death! - I
thought, while Maurice was whistling through his teeth melancholic
song .-- The death! I'll see her get ... has he come to this hour
.... I never thought mine, I loved, would die !»....

My heart ached,
and my thoughts went from one thing to another without stopping anywhere.
Complacióme memories of better years, adventurous days, I longed for
the tranquility of the school I spent two decades on, and it seemed
that the happy memories of childhood away from me sorrows and pains.
Angelina! Where was Angelina? I weep for the sick! Gabriela