 

Lambaré do a castle, with the name of the Assumption, and Carias, with relief Christians, are
against the CAAC.

Mandóse after the Carians that would make a great house of stone,
earth and wood, for safety and defense of Christians, should lift
the Indians.

We stayed here for two months.

Carios also offered the help in the war, and that if it was against Agac (which 30 leagues distant
from them, and about 334 of Good Hope Island, populated by Timbúes) 18.000 that would give Indians.
Whereupon our captain ordered 300 Spanish, and went with them and tooth decay Paraguay River
30 miles to the village of Agac, who were sleeping on the site that they had left. Reconociéronlo the
Carias, and suddenly fell upon them, between 3 and 4 in the morning,
and slew all his enemies, old and young, according to the custom they
have when they are victorious.

We took about 500 canoes after we burned all the towns where we, with other damage. After a
month came some Agac, that had not been found in the ruin of stay away from this land, asking
forgiveness.

The captain consented, according to the order of King, and admitted
of peace, as it should do, although pidiesen third time, because only
if they rebel later, slaves were perpetual.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Are the soldiers in the Assumption; recognize the site and condition of the land, and move up
the river above.

In six months we were in this city, we repaired to the stillness, and as our Oyola captain was informed
of the Payaguá that are populated by about 100 miles of the Assumption, to the banks of the
Paraguay River, as he said cavities, and that was their main food hunting and fishing, and also
had carob flour that made eating with fish, and wine as sweet as
our wine.

Then he commanded five ships loaded Oyola corn, and prevent of all things necessary, and give
to the sailors as they needed for the proper event the journey, the two months that he meditated.
First I wanted to make war with the Indians Payaguá, and then to the Caracas. Attending all
the cavities with carefully and submission, and they promised faithfully obey all orders from the
captain spots.

Ordered so referred, and prevented the ship around, the captain chose
300 soldiers, better armed and compounds, and left 100 in the city
of the Assumption.

River always sailing above, at five miles we reached a pueblezuelo, whose Indians trageron meat,
poultry, geese, sheep and ostriches, and came to the last village of Carias, called Itatin,
distant 80 miles of the Assumption, Indians gave their supplies and other things that we helped.

CHAPTER
XXIV.

Mount San Fernando and Peyaguás.

From there we got to the mountain called San Fernando, similar to that called Bogemberg [17], and
we Payaguá the Indians, 12 miles from Itatin: recibiéronnos peace, even feigned as learned later,
brought it home, and treated us with fish, meat, locust bean Pan
or John, so we were nine days.

Ask the captain if he made them the nation knew Xarayes called, said they had heard, who lived
away in a rich province gold and silver, but no Indian had ever seen any of it: and by relation
of others, He added that they were as wise as Christians, and abounding in corn, or cassava
cazabí, mandubís, yams and other roots, of sheep or elk meat, like animals donkeys whose feet
are like a cow, the skin thickness; of rabbits, deer, geese, chickens, and other things that we
learned after the fact.

Asked the captain to guide the Payaguá, to go into that province,
and offered ready; and about 300 Indians ordered his captain to go
with us and brought us food and other things.

Published our captain the journey in four days, sending it proveyesen
all what is necessary for this company: three ships broke, leaving
50 Christians in the two, with orders that were there.

[18] Four months waiting, and if not return at the end, retreated to the Assumption: we were waiting
six months without knowing anything about John Oyola, and lack the
supplies, it was necessary to return to Domingo de Irala, who had
been by our captain, to the city of Assumption, as our captain had
ordered.

CHAPTER XXV.

Juan Oyola comes to the land of the Naperús and Samocosis, and is dead to the back with all Christians.

Juan
Party Oyola with 300 Spanish and 300 Indians, came to the Naperús, friends and allies of Payaguá,
which remained hunting and fishing. It populous nation, and she took some Oyola Indians for guides,
because I had to walk between several nations, as did full of jobs and lack of all: many resisted
him with weapons, and killed half the people. Samocosis the Indians came, and could not go
forward, and leaving three Spanish patients with these Indians, set out the work, he turned
with all his family. John descanzo Oyola with his people, weary of the road, three days in Naper,
and although it came good, understood Indians did not bring ammunition and weapons, which covered
the Naperús and Payaguá, to kill, and they got it: for having left
Naper, Christians Oyola with to go to the Payaguá, being almost in
the middle of the road on them suddenly gave great multitude of these
two nations, (hidden in the forest meant for this betrayal, where
had to pass), and as rabid dogs killed the captain and his soldiers,
healthy and patients without escape.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Seeing death of his captain, the Spanish elected in his place Domingo Martinez de Irala.

We knew the treachery of Payaguá, by an Indian [19] who had been slave Oyola, the which ran from
the enemy to know the language, but did not give him full credit,
although it had all that had happened, from the beginning to the end
of the set pitiful.

So we were a year in the city of Assumption, unaware of our people other than the above, and what the
captain had Carios Irala, and be publicly known that Payaguá and Naperús he had died. But for
sure, we wanted to hear from the mouth of one of the Payaguá.

Two months later, some cavities comprises two Payaguá, and trageron the captain, and asking if
they had helped to kill our men, denied it, saying that even our captain had not returned
to his own province.

Gave them to torture, and confessed the truth, and what is mentioned
in chapter history, sending them to burn the captain tied to a suit,
surrounded by a large fire.

Then we choose as captain to said Irala, until the King ordered otherwise, for had always been
fair and kind, especially with the soldiers.

CHAPTER XXVII.

Captain prison places in the Assumption, going to the Timbúes and casualties is: let Antonio
de Mendoza in Corpus Christi, and sails to Buenos Aires.

He then Captain provide four brigs, and 150 Spanish Village, sailing down Paraguay and Parana
rivers. The second, leaving the other people in the Assumption, with orders to join the 150 who
were in Thimphu, and to the 160 of the ships of Buenos Aires, came to the Timbúes, or Good Hope, and
Fort Corpus Christi, where our people had been, but we found the land without Indians, because
the Captain Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan, presbyter, Juan Hernandez, clerk, they were like governors,
after several treatment infidels and evil, had killed the chief of the Timbúes and other Indians,
and the rest is fled, of whom we had received many benefits. So sad knowing evil, we are amazed,
and our captain entrusted to Antonio de Mendoza Fort Corpus Christi, leaving 120 men and supplies,
in order to guard against the Indians, being always alert with good guards, and if the Indians
should come to peace, to treat them with love, making few attentions were possible, and avoiding
all who attempt to harm them, and them Christians, and looking each other with the utmost diligence.
Thus returned to ship, carrying get to Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan and Hernandez, author of the infamous
death of the Indians. When they were to sail, was a principal Indian Thimphu, great friend of
the Christians, was compelled to follow his men, by his wife, children, relatives and family, which
permission to advise the captain who did not leave there any Christian,
for all the people of war of the province was settled or to kill them,
or out of the land.

The captain replied he would return soon, and people leaving enough
to resist the Indians, and begged it came, the Christians, with his
wife, children and families, and they promised, and leaving Corpus
Christi, embarked the captain.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Timbúes treacherously kill 50 Spanish: forsake the other the strength of Corpus Christi, and shipped
to Buenos Aires.

After eight days, more or less, the chief sent his brother, but treacherous, treacherously,
asking our captain Mendoza six soldiers with rifles and other weapons, to spend to us with
all their wealth and family to live forever. Pondered the fear that had at the Thimphu, and the
lack of security to come without this relief, offered, as a friend request all our convenience,
bring many provisions, and an abundance of other things. Persuaded the captain, not only gave
him 6, but 50 well-armed Spanish musketeers, charging that go with restraint, caution and
concern, to get rid of the damage they could cause the Indians who were half a league from us.
The 50 Spanish arrived in front of their houses, Timbúes were greeted with the peace of Judas:
ofreciéronles fishing and hunting, and to start eating, they were about friends and enemies,
that looked to others that had been hidden at home, with such fury and haste, that it is a
boy named Caldera escaped from their hands, none was saved.

And by continuing to rage, we envistieron 10.000, and stood upon the strong fourteen calendar
days, with intent to destroy us, but God mercifully stopped him. Traian long spears, swords
they had taken to the Christians killed by spikes, and fought with them and other weapons, night and
day, for take the fort, but could not.

After fourteen days, they gave the last envestida, stubborn throwing all his strength, and set fire
to the houses. Out came the captain Antonio de Mendoza with a sword by a door in which the
Indians had set his helmet, well hidden, and just gave it when he crossed Indians with spears, falling
to a standstill. God wanted them to food over Indians, and could not stay over, lifted the siege
and were thus rested, and more with two launches that sent our captain of Buenos Aires, with
provisions and ammunition, so that we could hold until we come back, which caused us great joy.
But it was greater sadness that the death of Christians instilled
in the newcomers, and not finding another way to restore, by mutual
agreement we decided to abandon Corpus Christi, and become to Buenos
Aires, as egecutamos with all people.

Scared our arrival the captain, and vehemently was overwhelmed by
the ruin of the people, not knowing he would do, for lacking the other
provisions and the need for any business.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A ship arrives in Spain with people to the island of Santa Catalina, where they go to ours in a boat.

Fifteen days had were in Buenos Aires, there fell a caravel to Spain, and warned us Santa Catalina
to be in a ship with 200 men, who came by Captain Alonso Cabrera. Al make available about our
captain ordered another small ship that was to Brazil, to Santa Catalina,
[20] which was about 300 miles from Buenos Aires.

Posted by captain Gonzalo de Mendoza, with orders if we find them in Santa Catalina, loaded
with rice, cassava and other supplies that his sight. Asked the captain Gonzalo de Mendoza
7 soldiers, who could be trusted, and chose 6 Spanish, and to me and 20 others to join us.

Sailed a month, and we arrived at Santa Catalina, where he was the ship we were looking, with Captain
Alonso Cabrera and his people, with which we rejoice much, and spent two months with it. As we
loaded our ship with rice, manioc and corn, and left with both ships and the captain and his
soldiers Cabrera Alonso de Santa Catalina, sailing to Buenos Aires; and lies just 20 miles from
the city, the eve of All Saints, in the Paraná River, asked sailors to each other, if they were
already in the river Paraná. Ours said that if, and they said the other ship still missing 20
leagues: we already know that when many ships make a journey together, as the sun sets each pilot
asked the other how much has sailed?; With what wind is to sail at night, not to depart? The
Paraná River is 30 miles Guazú wide to the gulf or mouth, which run 50 continuous miles to the port
of San Gabriel, which has only 18 miles wide. Our pilot told the other ship if I wanted to follow,
to which he replied that it was almost dark, and wanted to sit in
the sea to the sun, and not come ashore in the night without storm.

This pilot trial had more than we in government the ship, as stated
after the incident, and yet we continued his journey, leaving there.

CHAPTER XXX.

Our ship sinks, leaving some to land in San Gabriel, and then go to Buenos Aires and to the
Assumption.

Evening sail to near midnight, an hour before the sun rose so high storm, although we saw land
to a league or more, we could not take it, or drop anchor, or find another choice but to vote, and
imploring the divine mercy. Then at same time took our ship to pieces, and drowned 15 Spanish,
that we could never find corpse any, and 6 Indians. Others, clinging to some wood, were saved by
swimming: I went out with 5 partners tree clinging to the ship. We were on the ground naked
and without food, having lost everything, and having to walk 50 miles
by land, we were obliged to keep rootlet and other fruits in the field
to the port of San Gabriel, where he had come 30 days before the other
ship with Cabrera.

The General, who understood our misfortune, he was very sad with theirs, and persuading all had
perished, he had to say some masses for our souls.

Lleváronnos to Buenos Aires, and General indicted the captain and
pilot, and wanted to hang him, but by great intercession, was only
sentenced to four years to a brig.

All together in Buenos Aires,
sent the General to dispatch the launches, and they all the soldiers
had burned the other ships, and store iron