 Downtown Spanish
force occupied the road with your back to Bailen, not far away; to the right of the road from
us stood a few small hills in the distance rose slowly to be confused with the first foothills
of the Sierra, on the left also there was a hill, but it fell later in the riverbank Guadiela,
almost dry in summer and that flowed into the Guadalquivir, near Espelúy. Occupied the center,
to either side of way, powerful cannons, supported by a considerable force of infantry to was
left with the regiments Coupigny Bujak, Ciudad Real, Trujillo, Cuenca, Sappers and chivalry
of Spain, on the right were, in addition to cavalry Farnese thirds of Texas, the Swiss, the
Walloons, the regiment of Orders, Jaén, Ireland and volunteers from Utrera. Brigadier D. Mandábanos
Pedro Grimarest. The French occupied the road for the direction of Andújar and had their main
support in a thick olive grove in front of our right, therefore, served as a shelter to its
left wing. Also occupying the hills on the opposite side with large infantry and a regiment
of armed horsemen, and behind the stream had Herrumblar, too dry in summer, that had happened. Such
was the situation of the two armies, when the first light allowed us to see our faces. I think both
of us are very ugly respectively.

- What do you think of this adventure, Mr. D. Diego? - Santorcaz said.

-
I'm excited - said the little fellow - and want us to send it upon
the French ranks.

And my dear mother adamant that I retain that old sword or blunt
tip ...!

- Is your honor serene? - Marijuán asked.

- So serene that
I would not change by the Emperor Napoleon - said the Count -.

I know it's not anything can happen, because I'm the scapular of Our Lady of Araceli I got my little
sisters, thus this is that I can put in front of a cannon.

And you, Mr. de Santorcaz, afraid?

- Me? - Said D. Luis with some sadness -. You know I was in Hollabrunn at Austerlitz and Jena.

- Well then ...

- Because she witnessed terrible acts of war, I have
fear.

- Fear!

Then out of the row. Here we do not want people fearful.

- No gallant soldier - said Santorcaz - do not be afraid to start
the battle, as well as know what it is.

Hearing this, almost all rookies who laughed a laugh just before lying down, waving with bravado
and dicharachos, according to the warlike excitement that we had,
silent, staring each other, to ensure everyone that it was he alone
who was afraid.

- Do you know what my dear mother ordered me to do
to start the battle? - Said Rumble -.

Well, pray a Hail Mary with full devotion. The time has come. "Hail, Mary ..."

The morgado continued whispering the Hail Mary that began in a loud
voice, and all of our row followed suit, as if that squad instead
was a religious choir prayer, and the strangest thing was that Santorcaz,
turning pale, eyes closed, and removing hat with humble gesture, he
also said "Holy Mary ..."
