 

The mother pressed her against his chest, laid on her rosy cheeks a shower of kisses and continued
the race. At a certain spot where the road is separated from the shore the sea and then, let
them fall and took a veredita leading to it. He came to the rocks tall dark surrounding it
on that road. He put his son on the floor and kneeling then tearfully prayed a prayer tablets,
not being addressed in the form, it should not listen to the Almighty.

It was almost dark. The sea was still, dark, waiting impassively to tears of that unfortunate woman
should come as so bitter to increase the flow of its waters. Side of the creek there was the
silhouette of the pier and three or four pataches that usually lie at anchor nearby. The group
of fishing boats, a little apart, moving and still ringing with the cries of women employed in opening
the fish's belly, while the husband lay seriously as a tavern in the town. Attended Basilisa a moment
to those sounds so familiar. She also hoped her husband at one time, stroking her with his eyes
upon arrival, took from his hands the water binder, the case of rigging and the basket of supplies
and took them home with joy. Mariano coming soon later and sat at the fireside, with dancing
between his paws to cute boy which had a few months.

The widow was a long time staring at the bank group, which appeared
as a report and movable mass. His son, sitting on the lawn, playing
the trumpet jamming ground.

Suddenly came to him, lifted his arms and ran toward the thin edge.

- Mom! Where are we going? - Shouted the child.

The answer, if he gave it, must be from heaven. Momentum jumped into a tailspin. Falling on the
stones of the shore, broke his head was dead on the spot: the child miraculously saved. The womb
from which he now poured out not to break apart spring.

An old sailor, who was at that time among those rocks for fishing for octopus, heard noise
and provided the first aid to the child. Ran to the news soon flooded the place of people. The case
produced a deep impression. Women wept and went to tender infant from hand to hand and caresses
lavished a thousand cares. Many offered to adopt and there was dispute over who had to take it.
Aware ladies of the village and moved, also wanted to pick up the orphan. The fishermen's
wives then gave to do so in the interest of the former