 Wait, wait ...

He returned to the cabinet.

Or the man was insane or lacked very little.

- Dona Marta.

- Lord
...

- What do we do?

- This is serious.

He says it is nonsense and an ember in the head ...

- Take her home
... take her home immediately, at his house - pulling Knight said
of the confusion a clear purpose -.

Take charge you, Dona Marta, that goes well, and leave you with it.

You, Philip, you bring a car, but a decent car, a good car ... No, better will you bring the first
to find ... Dona Marta, take care you take, and take care that nothing is missing ... Then, Felipe,
alert the doctor, a good doctor, are you?, And say going there, home ... Arropármela, say, bun
... That is not cool ... Soon; the accoutrement ... That will not be anything.

Under these orders, looked even from the cabinet, though pitiful beautiful picture: the foot
discovered, the hanging arm, the pale oval face, the mouth half open
... Oh, sweet clothes ...!

With broken heart my man locked himself in his office ... If you do not cry was because I
could, which did not lack desire.

XXXVII

Four days later, according to insurance data, supplied by the diligent observation of Rye, was D.
Agustin Caballero in the self and a convalescent state of severe disease. Its wrong color and allowances
announced insomnia, bad temper and mood disorder, a manifestation perhaps liver, complicated with
melancholy or depressive feelings. And it is noteworthy that had seldom been our good friend
so talkative, only speaking great things they are said to himself. The cast of this comedy Tell them
performed a monologue or parliament Long, who had been shot four days before, and had overtones of
conclusion, so that if that monologue was heard, the public would be, as it were, throwing stones.
By repetition febrile ideas and concepts that soliloquy was unworthy of reproduction. From time
time an idea that intimate discourse detached from gushing out, condensing into sentence pronounced.
This phrase, echoing in the cabinet, had an echo, which was issued by the Rosalía Bringas
authorized lips:

"You're right, it seems very well thought out. What you leave in America is a silly feature childish.
Go a few days to Bordeaux, and there you will be distracted. Then come back here, where you
many friends where you are so loved and respected ... and you take
care that no bones about tripping.

"

Were in the cabinet of songbirds, which had not reopened the peak
from this sad set. Rosalie had ventured to vary the location and placement
of some objects of pure desire to bully