 This
is not only an opinion, it is quite accurate, that there are valuable truths that don't seem true. Sometimes
the point they make is so obscure even after much expense and explanation. The story just
becomes worse and worse, somehow pointless you could say. This sort of dilemna cannot be repaired
in a mere day's time, at least, not usually. Of the man Almudena, he is gifted with much to say
of this caliber and I love to hear him speak.

There are days of sorrow ahead and I hope to enlighten the girl who is dying during lunch today,
with some proverbial truths while they are lining the center of my head. I am also expected
to convey the stock numbers and other matters from the Book of Accounts to your relative Mrs....
, this could prove to make us all very rich, or, perhaps it will bring a laugh to our hearts.
Everything I can say has its roots in the Dona Paca.

It is always the case that God is the tool that lights our path no matter
what we are trying to do.

If you happen to see Mary along the way, this is a sign to get to
the church.

As we struggle through the lanes of life it is all fixed for us as
if it may be a fine restaurant for dining.

There are those who run away from the difficulties in life; but, you
might search instead of run away.

Knights were formed on many occasions when some brave souls stared
uncertainity in the face.

Maybe you are like them. With this idea the man took Benina by his arm. He told him not to hurry,
because the time would come that he would get to do his justice in the world.

"Are you going to be here for coffee?" asked the man of Benina. "Could you also ask Tigo to come?"
Benina nodded his head to acknowledge that he would show for the coffee. While they sat and
talked over coffee, Benina uttered many disatisfied opinions about the economic situation and also
took two glasses of coffee at ten cents a piece. The whole cafe was a refurnished tavern and
appeared as something between an old village and and elegant manor, a
little funny actually. The mixture of bright marine blue color, with
touches along with sellers, parishiners and newspaper readers created
quite a hearty group of souls, each of them slighly individual in the
midst of it all. The smell of smoke and alcohol fused with the newspaper
print but still did not disturb the comfort they all seemed to be enjoying.

Maybe
it was the great landscape in the background or the comfortable chatting
taking place between some of them that made everyone feel at ease.
Everyone seemed to be at the coffee house. Conversations about wealth
and money were popular with them all and there was even some gossip
pertaining to the locals. Talk of the bank, the government and D.
Carlos, who was making allowances for children in the latest tax bills,
were common discussions making the rounds. 

As for D. Carlos creating
advantages for the people with children, it was felt that they should
be spared the hunger that could interfere with their march with God