 Mrs. Alvarez, the owner, walked behind hitting
the slabs with the staff.

The girl we stopped driving disdainful princess garb. The black veil only discovered the hem of
the skirt, where a gallon silver plated three times the turquoise velvet. Ramiro rose. All the
grace of women now passed to him, tender and terrible. Whiteness of that face, aired by the
north wind, suggested in the hosts, and was indeed, as the allowance
of his love, the allowance of his passion, forgotten and dying.

Once at the window, Beatriz suggested a vague greeting, making flower in his lip a smirk galling. Further
out, where would leave the square, turning her face to that mask sad moments faded behind the
watery reflection glass, turned to smile, and so, accompanied by
the soft head rocking chair, disappeared with his people.

Ramiro threw the Art of Dying Well on a table covered with books.

       

The next morning, the servant who came to wake him up he remained puzzled. His master was not
removed nightclothes.

* * * * *

Gone are the days, long days of imprisonment, which he shortened to read, or painting in oils
with amazing dexterity on walnut tables, figures of Virgin and Saints. Canon came to visit him
often and always encouraged him to embrace the ecclesiastical career. True day he said:

- The cause of the Moorish going early. Will soon call you to testify.

As I was by the window, and looked at that time to the street, said:

-
There goes Gonzalo de San Vicente.

In fixed that goes with it is a master of the sword; she's always in the company. Some are saying
that the King wants to put off making alderman, despite of his few years, and if this happens,
Alonso Blázquez Beatriz give his daughter in marriage. Her father Philip is a great gentleman and
a faithful servant of the King and the Church.

Then, looking at an almond tree looming behind a roof and whose branches were beginning to cover
flower, added:

- Agora libidinous season arrives.

Meanwhile, Ramiro wearied. His wound had not closed. A circle surrounding swollen the lingering
scar, ready to be reopened at the slightest effort. The surgeon, after a learned discourse
on the influence of the planets in the crude humor and semicocidos of gangrene, had ended by
saying he could not leave until late March, having never before still bleeding a dozen times,
ex carpal manus, because, he says, "there was still vice of blood, presence of candidate standards
that are, no foul, and opportunity, then there was only ask. "

Easter came.

The days around breastfeeding in the first smile of the year, and
the trees burst buds, buds blondes and hairy like the young of birds.

The city, invaded by the people of the contours, sounded like a beehive. On Wednesday morning,
Ramiro was crossing the square, on beautiful horse, his former rival Gonzalo de San Vicente. The
dressing was blue velvet chair, with arms of his lineage embroidered
backwards, with gold and silk.

Two lackeys preceded it. Going to happen, no doubt, by the house of Beatrice or see out of
a church.

White plume, subject to a cap jewel Diamond, shivering in the morning air. Ramiro was moved
out to the balcony and launch an insult against that juveniles, blond
as a foreigner, white and pink as a female.

XXV

While not awake yet, the mane in disarray, fearful of light eyes, and stretching, now arm, now
the other, Beatrice, sitting on the edge of the bed, we let their slaves dress and maidens.

It was Holy Saturday and missing less than an hour for the Mass of Glory in the main church.
A clock had hit nine seasons.

Costabal much up so early. The caress the morning of holandas died within the will dream of making
it permanent joys.

The babblings of Mrs. Alvarez, and also the bare metal statues and
marble, brought of Italy for Don Alonso had dissipated early innocence.

Leocadia,

her favorite maid, after scrubbing and kiss her feet repeatedly estirábala Now, on the legs,
stockings tight bronze color, as reflected silk on the statuesque perfection, strong streak
of light. Then, having the red shoes with scented slippers Amber delicately lifted the nightgown
and gave him a kiss on the meat. The girl stopped her with both hands, exhaling fussy whine.

The same girl took after another shirt with a chest and came to offer
tips on a tray.

Then, Beatriz, catching and displaying garment that smells sweet and taped, closed, behind them,
the yellow damask hanging from Canopy. His legs are stronger than rest of his person, were peeping
through the opening. Rapacejos precious diamonds adorn leagues.

Warm perfume, which did not come from any handle the smell, or ark
of essences, but the bed ajar and clothes the night before, abandoned
on stools, perfumed the air of the bedroom.

A maid in the toilet rigged towels, wash basin, the basin. Another pathetic white lead to the complexion
and the bloody boat slightly poppy cheeks. Beatriz just wash accents. The cold water made her
hit the ground with the clog. The maid passed it, then, on the throat and shoulders, by way
of a breeze, damp cloth. Instead, she accepted with delight the fragrance. What else? Is the
amber water Angel, the civet, they kept the body fragrant flowers
which deck?

Two slaves of Italy served her knees. The youngest known to lengthen the eyes with kohl, in the
style of Turkish. He wore huge earrings and a green turban and striped glitter inequality. Was
languid and blond, like a virgin Sanzio. Don Alonso had purchased from a captain galley, and when
the gentleman returned from the Court, it was she who brought him
to the bed, every night, the sleeping flavored cooking.

Beatriz asked her book of devotion, meditating, in its way, the Mystery of the day, while the mending
the lank hair, which mimicked blackness stretches the abode glimpse of rosewood.

A cascade of sun, passing the windows, entered the room of bias. The glittering gift divine and sparkled
in the silver, the pearl and metal inlays in gallon of the hangings, falling onto the mat as a shower
of gold from the mythology. Outside, the morning glow illuminated the higher ledges, and the
sky without a cloud would dispelling the fog.

Habíanla reached devotional ajar.

The model represented the Lord up in the air, with white flag in his right hand while falling
terror guards around the grave. Children read with difficulty the Epistle of St. Paul to the
Colosio in line with the index. Then the narrative of St. Matthew: Mary Magdalene and the other
Mary Road to the tomb, the stone removed, the glowing words of the
angel announcing Resurrection.

The image of that miracle of miracles touched her deeply. A joy unspeakable the flooded to imagine
Jesus in his glorious flight after the agonies of Calvary.

There to laugh, to sing, had to wear the richest fabrics and choosing the best jewelry. Jesus
had risen!

Took in hand the mirror and tried to smile long glass, teaching teeth.

Finally, dressed in yellow brocade touches of silver and red work resembled to a web of chasuble, curly
hair neatly under the touch of feathers and velvet raised by the
cork of the slippers, adorned as a Miracle, seasoned, puffed, crisp
and walked around the room, watching, over her shoulder, the borders
the pearl petticoat and pomp of the kilt.

His tiny ears the earrings swaying diamond of a Grandmother.

The servants followed her like a dove that is drained.

A seek to adjust the welts of shoe, another straighten the gold cloth
belt embroidered with pearls.

Leocadia, taking a big mouthful of water smell, honed his teeth a steady stream, and, turning
around, rociolo with expertise from the hem of the skirt to the starched
ruff.

A servant came to announce that the sedan chairs waiting at the reception.

- Call Alvarez - said Beatriz.

A moment later the lady came with a lot of rumor and gorgoranes accounts. The maids withdrew.
Then, Mrs. Alvarez, the girl looking at through his glasses, burst:

- Princess precious! Star of Bethlehem Praise God who made you beautiful and salty a pearl of
the sea!

Beatrice, looking in the mirror, affected in the meantime, the most diverse grimaces. Ora screwed
desmayadizo trembling eyelids, as if breathing the perfume painful,
and now the opening beyond measure, and short, at once, his mouth
with lipstick, seemed to offer an imaginary lover, and candied strawberry,
as enticing candy purple.

The owner asked her almost in his ear:

- Did this street?

- Who
say? - Said the girl.

- De Gonzalo.

- Did I know?

- Yes it had.

Vile input many times in the church. I was looking for beagle will smell like herbs.

- Bah!

- Tired lover you will see, it is the gift of the eyes with his steel-colored
suit and a thousand buttonwood and fittings, and God help me!

What feathers so bizarre! All the girls turned their heads for Miralles. What will happen
when you put an alderman, as they say? You seem either born low up the same constellation. Lucida
couple! He will be the pearl nacre and you, madam!

- What church do you go?

- A Major.

And blessed the fire and the candle. I did give, by a canon friend, incense and estoraque.
Donosa party! The temple Güel better than a garden. Let's hurry, to be late.

He took her glass, Echola a cloak and brought it up with alacrity the stoves of martens, where
Beatriz introduced again and mannitol, mimicking the packaging of the ladies.

Once in the street, the daughter of Don Alonso apoyose against the back of the chair to counteract
swaying, and the slow pace of silleteros, crossed into the crowd, stiff and showy as an image, pious
mouth, eyes Recoletos.

A footman carried the pillow postratoria ahead with the shield of the richly Blázquez embroidery.

XXVI

Avila
resplendent in gold and white wet in the morning, a small Jerusalem. The religious emotion swelled,
the perfume. The flowers of the trees, hovering above of the walls, hung on the streets. Loss
seemed impatient joy bells silent spread over the entire village. Beatriz sucked that floating
sublimity sensing something mysterious was going to move near their existence.

Villanaje circulated with the sentence on the streets, and the girl looked with disgust to the peasants;
who left to spend a whiff of cheese, and crunched on the stones on
Sunday shoes.

Some faces shone through the wonder of the fact that the Church celebrated very remote, and
Pujadas pupils would like to wonder out similar to San Juan and San
Pedro Road the grave.

Arriving at the plaza of the Cathedral, the squire had to remove the
rustic to give way to the chair.

In addition to the huts and villages of the contours, many people
neighboring towns had overturned many of its people in that small
square, barely whether it was sufficient for the neighbors.

The most diverse clothes burned under the magical light, loose multicolor
crowding.

Skirts could be seen as red or green peppers, red ocher color as
pumpkins, purple as eggplant, brown layers and coletos like the skin
of the tubers, old black clothes that were taking the wrong-colored
beans, catching dengue fever and shawls which seemed to have blown
across the garden.

There was no lack of shepherdesses eclogue, in braids and corsage,
shepherdesses Sotalvo of Tornadizos of Fontiveros, laundresses, or
pastoralists, who had failed to remove the smell of bleach or the
stench of the cops and fawns.

Dry and taciturn men, of shaven mouth and I mean monastic hat, watched
the parade of lords, leaning on their sticks of respect or on the
neck of the donkeys.

       Women spoke cheerfully.

The richest aprons brought flashy, and almost all, necklaces coral and silver earrings Mudejar
crosses and medals that looked like ex-votos of dressing room. Much of these people had left
their remote huts, farmhouses before dawn the starlight.

- Back I say! - Screaming there a bracket drunk with power, pulling
badly to the rustic, to preserve the human alley where they were coming
to the church ladies and gentlemen.

- Do you want the lord sheriff
who stirred up the lady legs mules? - He replied a city ??girl.

-
Back, I say, and go two.

- Pus remove those fingers!

- Look at the
Antonia, which are not market today.

Street vendors selling advantage.

- Beautiful Lady, by Royal takes the rosary.

- I would give you, at best, fourth.

- Rear or front?

- Oste the villain!

* * * * *

The temple was filled with crowds and above all mottled with light and incense. The long glare coming
down from the dye colorimeter spectral windows and stone alabaster,
glazed golden pulpits, strutted the dark walnut.

Beatriz was a kneel with noble ladies, between the choir and the chapel. The officers, resplendent
Jewelry and scallops, occupied the seats in center.

The singing of the Litany was echoing through the arches, powerful, monotonous sublime. For Deacons
end coated in white garments appear.

Begins the Mass, said Beatriz Gonzalo de San Vicente, dressed as the lady said, knelt on the
glove, opposite to the ship, staring fixedly at the sign of the cross. She corresponded with tender
eyes, and then head down, sighed deeply back eyes to the book.

Honourable Don Jerónimo Manrique de Lara offered incense and pale bony hands. The liturgical smog filled
in an instant, what miraculous cloud around the sanctuary, involving to provide and deacons,
dimming the gold, and cover with veil of perfume sunny the paintings of the altarpiece.

Suddenly, the voice of the priest intones the first words of Gloria, and like the thunderous
collapse of the tomb of silence and pain which the Church rises from
the morning Thursday, descuélganse a time high, the thunder of the
drums, the roar of the hornpipes, the overflowing of the organ and
puffing up there, out there in the air, sun explodes while the rapid
ringing of all bells, frantic, crazy, crazy, singing and throwing
to the winds the sublime and ancient joy of the Resurrection.

At that moment, Beatriz, to lift the front, saw his right, against
a column of cruise the ghost ... The person of Ramiro!

The organ
and the bells were ringing. A storm of religious joy heads bent them
of the kneeling crowd. Beatriz she faltered, confusing in the same
transport the resurrection of the Lord and the presence of the pale
young man, whose face figurósele, at first, the face of stark and
admirable passion.

With the last words of the Gospel, Ramiro began
to retreat slowly.

Arrimose the grave of Diego del Aguila, resting
his temple against the wall, as if expecting advice of that old gentleman
of his family, stayed in there, in your honor. People went through
all the doors of the church. Ramiro saw that his rival was parked
next to a basin with the fingers placed on edge, waiting probably
Beatrice.

- It is strength to overcome this mesmo! - He said. And,
driven by irresistible movement, took his place, almost hidden behind
the same column. Thus, when Beatrice was found within walking distance
and Gonzalo came forward to offer the holy water in the fingers, wet
Ramiro turn briefly yours, and also handed to her, and calm imperious
gesture. Amazed this double gesture, the girl hesitated, but then,
lowering his eyes tended to move her trembling hand into the hand
of Ramiro.

The two young men looked for a moment a terrible way