 Having in between this plague, can not Rozart ... I had you were given
every day to collect the leftover food in the house that was your mistress.

- And I do not ...?

- Yes, yes, the food is yours ... but ... see what to do ... you get to the portal to hours that
I set, and my cousin Hillary will bring it down and I will give ...
coming at you at least I can ... You understand ... each has its qualms
... Not all stomachs are like yours, Nina, bombproof ... that ...

-
I understand ... Lady Juliana.

Stay with God. "

XL

Adversity and crashed in the heart of Benin, as the vague waves in the robust cliff. Rompíanse
thundered, were broken, melted in white foam, and nothing else. Rejected by the family that he
had sustained in saddest days of misery and pain without story soon remake of the deep trouble
that caused him so notorious ingratitude; his conscience gave him unspeakable consolation: he looked
at life from the height at which his contempt of human vanity put it, saw the ridiculous smallness
beings around her, and spirit was big and strong. Had achieved glorious victory, I felt victorious
after have lost the battle on the ground material. More intimate satisfactions of victory not
deprived of his gift of government, and attentive to material things, came in a little while
depart from Juliana, to solve the most urgent as the life both body concerned. It was crucial
to seek shelter, then try to cure your scabies Mordechai or whatever, then leave him in such
a pitiable state would not do for anything in the world although she saw the filthy infected wrong.
And ran with him to Santa Casilda, and finding vacated the small room occupied by the Moors with
Petra, he took it. Fortunately, the drunk Diega had gone to live in the Cava de San Miguel, behind
the ladder. Installed in that cache, which was not without comforts, the first thing that made
the old Alcarrian was to bring water, all the water he could, and wash and body soap, old habit
in it, that whenever he could practice at home of Dona Francisca. Then he wore clean. The welfare
cleanliness and freshness gave his body, somewhat confused with rest of his conscience, in which
he also felt something like absolute cleanliness and freshness comforting.

Then devoted himself to the arrangement of the house, and with the little money he had made his
purchase, and Mordechai prepared a good meal. They planned to bring the consultation the following
day, and so it said, showing the blind according to all with what she wanted the will to determine. While
they ate, entertained and encouraged him to hope and sweet words, offering to go, as he wanted
to Jerusalem or a little further, as regain health. Pending to take away the rash, there was
no need to think about travel. It would still, at home, she going to ask for one every day to
see get to live on, surely God not let them starve. So pleased the blind conceived and proposed
plan by his smart friends, and with his affectionate expressions, which burst into singing the
chant Arabic Benina already heard him in the landfill, but as to escape the stoning had lost
the small guitar, could not accompany the son of that rough instrument. He then proposed to
companion to cast incense, and she did it willingly, because the smog and flavored saneaba poor
room.

They left the next day for consultation, but as they nominate for this one-hour evening, entertained
the first half of the day pordioseando on several streets, always good care of the chili, not
to fall again in the hands of those who cast the tie to beggars, as if they were dogs and take
them to the warehouse, where they treated like dogs. It must be said that the ungrateful not come
from Doña Paca Nina woke up in hatred or malice, and that compliance with the ingratitude of this
took away the desire not to see the unhappy lady, who dearly wanted, as a partner of bitterness
in many years. Longed view, even if from afar, and brought this fondness, it was the street
of Lettuce to discern a discreet distance if the family was in the process of moving or had
moved now. What time has arrived! He was in the car door, and the boys got stuff in it with
the barbarous quickly that used in this operation. From his vantage Benina recognized the
decrepit furniture, bent, and could not contain his excitement at seeing them. It was almost
his, of its existence, and they saw, as in a mirror, the image of their sorrows and joys;
I thought that if approached, the poor tackle had to say something, or cry with it. But what was
strongly impressed to see out through the portal and Obdulia Dona Paca, with Polidura and
Juliana, as if it were a new home, while the maids are elegant remained in the former, providing
for collection and transportation of offal, and all the trash home.

Troubled and confused, Nina hid in a doorway, to see without being
seen.

What impaired Dona Francisca found! He wore a new dress, but so heinous appearance, as cut
and sewn in a hurry, it seemed like the poor lady dressed in alms. Covered his head with a robe,
and held a sombrerote Obdulia with deformed flourish and feathers. Doña Paca walked slowly,
staring at the floor, overwhelmed, sad, as if carried by guards civilians. The girl laughed, chatted
with Polidura. Juliana was behind herding them all, and sending them they were in a hurry by the
way that marked them. No more than he needed to look like wood to that on Christmas Eve the streets
leading flocks of turkeys. How dawned despotism in the smallest movements! Doña Paca was the humble
response that goes where the lead, even at the slaughterhouse, Juliana and the shepherd who leads.
Disappeared the Plaza Mayor, the street of keypads ... Benina took steps to see the sad cattle
and when he lost it, wiped the tears flooding her face.

"Poor dear lady! - Said the blind man as he met him -.

I love her as a sister, because together we spent many penalties. I was all for it, and it all
for me. Forgive me my faults, I will forgive their own ... How sad it is, perhaps thinking
of how bad ported with Nina! It seems that rheumatism is worse, so lame, and his face is not
have eaten in four days. I brought cherry-picked, I was cheating with good shade, hiding our
misery, and putting my face in shame for him to eat according to what was his taste and custom ...
In short, the past, and said the other, it happened. Come on, Almudena, let's go here, and God
put you well soon to take the little road to Jerusalem, not and scares me by far. Walking,
walking, child, comes from a part of the world to another, and if one hand we get the benefit
of fresh air and see new things, on the other we get the certainty that everything is the same,
and that parts of the world are a guess, as the world in together, you say, that wherever people
live, or verbigracia, women, be ingratitude, selfishness, and ones that send to others and
will catch them. As we must do what conscience commands us, and let those who fight for a bone,
like dogs, the other over a toy, as children, or those by bully, as older, and not to quarrel
with anybody, and take what God put us ahead, like the birds ... Come to the Hospital, and
do not be sad.

- Me not sad - said Almudena -; be satisfied tigo ... God you know
how things tudas and I quiries you and Angela Bunite ... And if you
do not want to marry me, this be your mother mine, and I was a child
Bunite yours.

- Well, man, that's fine.

- And you com palm desert
D'granda, Bunite thou zucena branca com ... Illyricum you ... Telling
me Amri you: my soul.

"

As I was the unhappy pair Hospital Road, Doña Paca and his entourage,
in a different direction, they approached their new house, rue de
Orellana, a third clean with paper and stucco brand-new, good lighting,
ventilation, excellent cuisine, and price accommodated to the circumstances.

It seemed too good to Dona Francisca, when up came, smothered the
endless stairs and if he felt bad, careful not to show it, abdicating
in all their will and opinions.

The flexible, more flexible, flabby character of the widow, was adapted to the feeling and
thinking Juliana, and seeing this that it ran between the fingers
that bread crumbs, pellets made with it.

Doña Paca not breathe without the permission of the tyrant, who for the most insignificant acts of
life, had quite a few orders that dictate to the unhappy lady. It came to having a childhood fear,
it felt soft crumb inside the bronze hand beading and indeed it was not just afraid, for he mingled
with some respect and admiration.

Lay the lady from the bustle of the day, and stuck all the furniture, dishes and pots in the new
house and attacked an intense sadness that devoured the soul, called her tirana to say, "You
have not explained well by the way we speak. What stories Nina has its moro? Is this good-looking?
".

Juliana gave the explanation that he asked his subject, without hurting
Nina and put it in wrong place demonstrated in this fine touch.

"And stay ... that it can not come to me, for fear that plague us from getting filthy. You did
well.

If not for you, I would be exposed, God knows, we stick to the plague ... Get over that would collect
leftover food.

But this is not enough, and I would happy to point out a number, for example, a penny daily. What?

- I say that if we start with those jokes, Mrs. Dona Paca, Peñaranda again soon. No, No: a quarter
is a quarter ... Pretty Nina has two real.

So I thought, and if you have something else, I wash my hands.

- Two real, two ... You have said ... and simply, yes.

Do you know the miracles that Nina half penny? ".

In this Daniela was very alarmed, saying Frasquito knocked on the door, and Obdulia, that the
sight had seen, felt that it was opened, to avoid another scandal such as Imperial Street.
But who told him the address of the new home? No Polidura doubt was the snitch, and Juliana
is sworn to snatch his ear. The mishap occurred Get serious while calling with nervous fury, determined
to break the bell, rose Hilaria street and opened the latch-key and there was no possible way
to cut the intruder, who rushed in, appearing before the frightened ladies with their hats pulled
down ears, brandishing the cane, the great detriment and clothing stained with dirt and mud.
It He had twisted his mouth, and painfully dragged his right leg.

"By God, Frasquito - Doña Paca said pleading - we do not riot. You are wrong, and should go to
bed. "

Obdulia also went out emphatically declaiming "Frasquito: a person
like you, so fine, in good society, say such things!

... Please view, back to consciousness.

- Lady and Madame - Ponte said desencasquetándose hat with great difficulty
-.

Caballero I am and I know how to deal with price of elegant ladies, but as of this has left the
absurd species, I come to ask for explanations. My honor demands it ...

- What have we to do with the honor of you, so scarecrow? - Cried Juliana -. Ea decent person who is
not lacking in the ladies! The other day was for you empresses and now ...

- And now - Ponte said, trembling at the strong accent of Juliana, as wind whipped cane -. And
now ... I do not disrespect the ladies. Obdulia is a lady, Doña Francisca
another lady.

But these ladies ladies ... I have been slandered, I have hurt my
feelings more pure claiming that I made the cut to Benina ... and
that required at rogue loves to by me and me missing the loyalty owed
to the gentleman from Saudi ...

- If we do not have said such nonsense!

-
All Madrid repeats ... Here in these rooms came the unworthy species.

They accuse me of an infamous crime: having laid eyes on an angel, white wings celica purity
immaculate. Know that I respect the angels, if Nina was mortal creature, would not have respected,
because I'ma man ... I have tasted blondes and brunettes, married, widows and maids, Spanish
and Parisian, and no I have resisted, because I deserve it ... Permanent Beauty I am ... But
I have not seduced angels, nor the allure ... Sepal you Frasquita, sepal, Obdulia ... The Nina
is not of this world ... Nina belongs to the sky ... Dressed in poverty has begged to keep you
and me ... and women that do, I do not seduce, I can not seduce her, I can not woo ... My beauty
is human, and divine it; My face is splendid mortal flesh, and it's light blue ... No, no, I have
not seduced was not mine, is of God ... And I tell you, Curra Juarez, Ronda, to you, now can
not move, what you weighed in the ingratitude body ... Yo, I am grateful I'm a boom, and flight ...
as you see ... You, being ungrateful is lead, and is crushed against the ground ... as you see
...».

Mother and daughter distraught, screaming for help from neighbors.

But Juliana, more courageous and expeditiously, unable to endure calmly irrelevant ravings of
unhappy Ponte, it was angry at him, took him by the lapels, and comiéndoselo with the look and
voice said: "Unless you start early this house, so mess, you throw him off the balcony."

And surely he would have done, if Hillary and Daniela cogieran not the poor son of Algeciras, putting
in two pulls out of the door. Presented themselves doormen and neighbors, attracted to the
uproar, and saw many people gathered, the four women went to the landing of steps to explain
that this man had lost his mind, the more chips attentive and courteous person in the world,
the most importunate and shameless. Frasquito fell limp to the next plateau: there he stood, looking
up, and said: "Ungrateful, ingrrr ...». Wanted end of the word, and a violent contortion denounced
the futility of their efforts. Of His mouth did not go more than a hoarse roar, as if invisible
hand strangle him. Were all to be decomposed horribly factions, eyes popped out of the helmet,
mouth approached one ear ... He raised his arms, breathed a sigh! distressing, and collapsed
at once. In the fall of his body shook from top to bottom all the flimsy ladder.

Subiéronle four to the house to provide relief, he did not need the unhappy. Reconociole Juliana,
and said dryly: "It is as dead as my grandfather."

Final

Admirable example of the effects of human will in the governance of large and small groups of
beings, was Juliana, unprincipled woman, who could barely read and write, but he had received
from Nature the rare gift of organizing life and govern the actions of others. If you fell under
the hands of Zapata family would have played more stem family rule, or an island, or state, would
have gone very graceful. In the island of Dona Francisca established with a firm hand to normal
a month after wielded the reins, and all went right there and no one dare not put rebullía question
their irrevocable mandates. True that to get this beautiful result used pure absolutism, the
regime of terror, his genius did not admit even timid comments: His
law was his holy will, his logic, the stick.

In the anemic character of the mother and the children are not coming bad this system, tested
and Antonio with happy success. Came to exercise such dominion over Dona Francisca, the poor
widow would not even pray the Our Father without asking your permission to the dictator, and
even warned before sighing, as so often did, watching her as if to say: "No I will carry the wrong
way a little sigh. " In all was obeyed blindly by Juliana Mom politics, except one thing. Mandábale
that was not always sad, and although the slave responded with statements of compliance, it
was put to see that the order was not fulfilled. Entered, So Zapata's widow in prosperous normal existence
with his head down, the droopy eyes, looking vaguely lost in the drawings of the mat, the body
lounging, fond every day with the indolence, the decadent appetite,
moody and surly mood, ideas black.

Fifteen days after settling in the street Dona Francisca de Orellana, who judged the bossy
His power would be more effective and better governed the family would live together: general
and subordinates. Trasladose, then, and there was putting his humble furnishings, and their
kids, and the mistress, for which previously made hole, throwing out the sea of ??plant pots
and vases, and putting in the street to Daniela, who in fact served
no more than a hindrance.

A functions Chancellor of the girl soon added, and vanity of her mother and sister. Thus all stayed
home.

But as there is no complete happiness in this naughty world, a month or so, the move, indicated
in the ephemeris zapatescas by the disastrous death of Frasquito Ponte Delgado, Juliana began
to suffer strange changes in your health. Which by its lush had shown strength in comparison to the
mules, was the folly of suffering as contrary to their natural perfect balance. What was it? Nervous
and gusts humbugs hysteria, disorders that Juliana had laughed more
than once, attributing them to fuss women and self-perceived mimosas,
which, she said, husbands cured syrup ash.

Juliana began badly for insomnia rebels got up every morning without slept a wink, a few days
of insomnia began to lose their appetite, and, finally, not Sleeping added fearful and anxious fears
at night, and a melancholy day black, heavy, funereal. The worst thing for the family was that
with these annoying alifafes not attenuated the absolute ruler of the tyrant, but it was getting
worse.

Antonio was proposing to remove walk, walk and she sent him a hundred thousand pairs of demons.
Made himself indifferent, and foul-mouthed, rude, obnoxious.

Finally, his hysterical obsessions were condensed into one, on the idea that twins not in good health.
Worth anything extraordinary evidence of the robustness of the children. With care around them,
and lengthy and meticulous care in put conservation, resented, made
them mourn.

At night we threw the bed ensuring creatures that swam in blood, their throats slit by a murderer
invisible. If coughing, was that drowning, if they ate poorly, was that they had been poisoned.

One
morning he got out, with a shawl and headscarf, and went to neighborhoods Benina looking South,
with whom he was to speak. And by God did not spend a few hours to find it, because they no
longer lived in Santa Casilda, but in the fifth hell, that is in Toledo road on the left of
the bridge. There he found irksome after investigations, whirling and detours for those lost villages.
He lived alone with I dwell in a house, which looked more like hut, located on the grounds
that dominate the road to the south. Almudena was improving of the disgusting skin disease,
but still looked his masked face nasty scab: never left the house, and was all alone Happy Birthday
to earn a living begging in San Andrés. Juliana little surprised not to see it in looks good health,
and also happy, calm the spirit, and well established in the foundation
conformity with their lot.

"I come to quarrel with you, Sena Benina - said sitting on a stone in front of the shack next
to the trough in which the poor woman washed, at a respectful distance
from the blind, echadito in the shade -.

Yes, ma'am, because you got to go pick up the leftovers in our home, and did not seem that
way, nor have we seen him hair.

- Well, I say, Madam Juliana - said Nina -. You can believe that there has been contempt, not lady,
it was not contempt. Is not what I needed. I have other food from home, which and what I get enough
for us, and so, well you give to other poor, and to his conscience is the same ... What do
you know? What who gives me food? I see you quite curious. Well I that blessed charity to
D. Romualdo Kidron ... I've met in San Andres, where it says Mass ... Yes, ma'am, D. Romualdo, who
is a saint, so you know ... And I am sure After much thought, other
than the D. Romualdo that I invented, but one that looks like seem
to him as two drops of water.

Invent a few things that come after truth, or truths, prior to truth, a guess, lies are too fat ...
With it already knows. "

Edger declared that she was glad much of what he heard to refer, and that since Don Romualdo
favored it, Doña Paca and she would give up their leftover food to other needy. But something
more had to say: "I am indebted to you, Benin, because my mother arranged for political, who
rule with a silk thread, I point out to you two reales a day ...
As no We have seen it anywhere, I could meet you, but I weigh, I weigh
in actual consciousness both day and bring them here in fifteen pesetas,
making the whole month, Sena Benina.

- Well, I take it, yes indeed
- said Nina joyful -, that this is nothing to sneeze ... They come
to me pesetillas such as falls from heaven, because I have a debt
to the Pitusa, Midi Street Grande, and we fixed what was giving me
collect, and peseta to drive revenue.

With This brings me to the middle and a little more. Stones of these I come every day, Mrs.
Juliana. He knows that you thanks, and may God give health to herself, and her husband and the
kids. "

With word nervous, affluent and somewhat hyperbolic, said the little love he had no health
who suffered from a strange evil and incomprehensible.

But take them with patience and care for any of his own person.