 Irala left the Army
of the Assumption, and sighted the enemy, called for peace to Taber, according to the orders
of the King: but the chief was so angry, I never wanted to accept treatment. Had a egército numbers,
and had fortified their villages with palisades around in three orders, with large, deep holes,
which had learned our care and diligence.

Three days it took to achieve peace, and report the enemy, and the fourth week, three hours before
sunrise, seeing that they were more stubborn, we headlong into the city and surrender, killing
insofar as it found, and many Indian captivating served us well later. Killed 16 Christians
in this battle and others were wounded and mauled. Killed many of our Indians, and Cambal, 3.000.
A short time later the peace Taber with his own, asking forgiveness, and pleading that we returned their
wives and children, promising obedience to itself and its people: and the captain gave him what
he asked, according to the order of the King. CHAPTER XXXIV.

Assumption is in prison, sail up the Paraguay River, arriving at
Mount San Fernando, and to the Payaguá, Guajarapos and Sococies.

Confirmed peace, we returned to the Paraguay River Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, who informed our
good fortune, determined to run the company he had thought of before.

2.000 Taber asked Indian allies, and to the Carias, that would provide
the launches, and so promptly executed. Chose 500 Christians, 800 who
had, leaving 300 in the Assumption, and captain of them, Juan de
Salazar de Espinosa.

We went up the Paraguay River with 500 Christians [26] and 2.000 Indians: the Carians had 83
canoes, we 9 brigs, and in each were two horses, until we reached the mountain of San Fernando.
For about 100 miles went by land, and embarked and continued our
journey to the Payaguá, who fled with their wives and children, before
burning their homes.

We traveled 100 miles without finding any Indian town: and finally, we Guajarapos the Indians, who
remain fishing and hunting, and live in a province 100 miles long, with such a large number of
canoes, you can not say. Indian women walk covered from the waist to the knee and because he would
not listen to our talks, we call Sococies to another nation, who received us peace, and was 90 miles from
the Guajarapos. Each of these Sococies own particular lives in home with his wife and children.
The Indians bring a wooden ball outstanding ears. The Indian, lips blue glass, a finger, are beautiful,
and walking nude. They have plenty of maize, cassava, Mandubia, sweet potatoes, fish and game,
and very populous nation. Advance sought the nation's report of the Car Care, and Cavities: but
the Indians knew nothing of that, and in this they said they were
with them, being a lie.

This previniésemos sent us to enter the province, although he saw the little benefit that followed us,
because it was not much business man, and I hated all the captains and soldiers, much as he
was lazy, and some kind to the soldiers [27].
