 It
is a cauldron that stuns the world and the troubled world comes to blows.

[Illustration: Arc de Triomphe.]

[Illustration: The Magdalena.]

=
Day fifth =.

La Magdalena.

At half past seven p.m. we had to ask for help to the cab, and headed to the Magdalena. Beautiful
building! Sumptuous Factory! When he saw the huge group, I think that I am not in Paris. I think
I have been traveling when asleep and awake in Greece. La Magdalena Greek is a magnificent
palace, not a Christian church. A temple is the house of God, for to awaken in our minds the religious
emotion. Where am not religious emotion, I find the temple, and Magdalene, the beautiful and splendid
palace, do not wake up in my soul emotion that almost divine. Contemplating, I feel the enthusiasm
of admiration, not reverence of faith: I see statues of heroes, no statues of saints, I think
of Alexander, Caesar, of Hannibal, I do not remember God, I emember of Cyprus and Venus, can
not remember the mountain Calvary, or the Redeemer, and of the Virgin,
or the Magdalena: I remember the glory, not I remember the Passion.

The Magdalena is a magnificent anachronism, a stunning palace and a bad basilica, a large fortress
and a bad church, a large temple and a poor Gentile Christian church.

I see him before me, I'm looking for four or five minutes, I want focus, I want to abstract,
I worship, I want the idea of ??a supreme being let fall on my soul an immense shadow, I can not
get it. Muses call me, the fable Greek distracts me, the forests of the island of Calypso
I speak of love, I see flowers, women, profane altars, smell intoxicating perfumes, divisive
and forests, whose shadows seem to hide wanton mysteries, in the distance I hear a noise that
worries me, seduce me, but seduce seduces me as a magician or a circe. We give pleasure, but
we give a sigh: our senses are happy, our heart is sad. In short, watching this rich Athenian
palace, I see everything but the tears of Mary Magdalene, that hidden
tear and humble, devout and holy tear that poetry is a more sublime
than the most sublime poetry for all poets of the world, the poetry
of Calvary.

How the stone teaches us too!

What bigger story is the architecture! The book can written in two ways, on paper and marble.
The press has always existed, previously called Phidias, then called Gutenberg.

Studying the fortress that fills me with admiration, we understand the infinite superiority of
Christianity over all religions of Asia, ancient Greece and ancient
Rome not only in matters of dogma, science, politics and morality,
but even in art.

Chateaubriand said very well: the same bronze bell Rue, inspires a certain melancholy Sweet
and religious ecstasy indefinable way, when Christian sentiments.

Christian poetry dazzles us not, does not take away, call us, attracts
us, we cherish: no seduce us, we persuade us not freaks, we sleeping.

Christian poetry, Christian art, is not brilliant, dazzling, serious,
severe, modest.

It is a figure that half covers with a veil.

The part we see, makes us fall in love her, and love.

The party who fails to see, makes us guess a wonder, and worship.

Paganism did nothing but love, because he saw no more than forms.

The Christian love and adore at the same time, because while is body
and soul, shapes and wonders, earth and sky, humanity and God.

The gentle art speaks to the senses, the heart and to the fantasy.

Christian art speaks to a sense, the conscience and to the faith.

The gentle art of poetry known pleasure.

Christian art knows and feels the poetry of pain.

The women had pagan art.

Christian art is Maria and Magdalena.

Under asiátiaco and Greek art, we close our eyes and see orgies.

Under the art of Christianity, we close our eyes and see virgins.

The Abbe graciously, Christianity has lifted us. According to the happy expression of Pascal, brings
paganism, Christianity leads us. The one comes, the other goes.

To return to the building that I have before, we are freaks, do not call us, it belongs to art gentle,
non-Christian art, a kind of idolatry, not a cult, not a worship, I will to say it again: it is
a brilliant anachronism. Divine worship had not lost almost nothing, if it had carried out
the thought of Napoleon, who wanted to convert into a temple of glory. As a temple of glory,
admirable as a Christian church does not speak to my intelligence and to my faith, even if I
make the heart beat.

There, where now stands the beautiful monument attic, there was, for
seven centuries, more than pastures, shepherds and sheep, Who had
to say then!

The building that I see happen to a church, built the fifteenth century by Charles VIII, which this
prince established the Confraternity of Mary Magdalene, from which comes the name origin the current
monument.

And the church of Charles VIII, succeeded to a farm and a chapel that XII century built a bishop
of Paris, where Christians of that time would pray certainly with more fervor, that nineteenth-century
Christians pray in this Régio castle. Around the chapel and to the farm of that prelate, went
forming a crowded neighborhood known in history with the city name of Bishop, ville-l'Eveque.

Much
later, the city joined the Bishop of Paris, and having verified the opening of Royal Street,
determined to build the present church of the Madeleine, opposite
Bourbon Palace and the Place Louis XV.

This monarch began the work, which, through Revolution, the Empire and the Restoration, came
to Louis Philippe, who put the last stone.

We approached a little. Admission is truly royal, graceful, arrogant. The large front porch Noon, which
is what we see, is crowned by beautiful triangular pediments, and ornate a bas-relief of 35 to 40
feet wide, about 7 or 8 in height, which is to Santa Magdalena lying
at the feet of the Savior, taking his right faith, hope and charity,
and to his left, almost scrambled and confused, the seven deadly sins.

So the right or the left, we saw other figures. The right to be blessed that keep the three
theological virtues, and the left seem to be figures of reprobates, Image of the seven sins.

We
get closer. The massive front door, all of bronze, is a work of remarkable merit; a masterpiece.
There are symbolic and beautifully explained the Ten Commandments the written law, through the
Old Testament figures. That great story, written bronze, has filled me with wonder, not for their
skillful execution, and for its vast and happy intelligence.

We entered the temple, and found ourselves in a spacious atrium or lobby, consisting of an arch from
25 to 30 meters high, about 14 or 15 of latitude, where the two chapels
baptism and marriage.

The first is a marble group representing baptism Jesus Christ, and the second, another group
that represents the marriage of the Virgin to San Jose. The stacks of holy water, Antonin Moyne
master's work, are truly precious in the eyes of art.

We turned to head a look towards the back of the church, and our eyes are dazed lost in a single
ship, high, wide, bright, huge, full of courage, strength and majesty. There is a naive majesty,
biblical, innocent is not that simple and naive majesty which draws its charm from the spirit,
not a Christian Majesty, Majesty is a powerful, splendid, fantastic, ominous, a majesty that derives
its charm of form, a majesty of pagan art; but surely these forms have something impressive,
majestic and big.

Those vaults silent, still and as piled on themselves, that roof formidable that seems to be
suspended by the genius of man, it brings hopes heaven brings no words and consolations of a better
life, but it gives us a great idea land. Here everything breathes greatness, boldness, pride.
Yes, pride, because creations as lavish as this, inspire a feeling of emulation, almost with
envy. Many Men do not escalate the land, if they could, to find after a throne in this palace!
Here think of the site of Troy, Achilles and Ulysses, Hector and Aeneas; here do not think
Providence, nor angels, nor bliss. In this way we are going to Cyprus, not to Jerusalem. With
much talent Napoleon wanted to turn this church into a temple of glory!

We went to the altar, and this great monument confirmed me more in my opinion. The group principal,
the exaltation of Mary Magdalene, carved with the splendid and freshness that Marochetti bold
genius can give to his works, is to our Lord, to the saints, Apostles and evangelists, and
some of this Christian group, on this home religious holy surrounding this family, see Greek art,
poetry, mythology, we offers a multitude of characters, from the baptism of King Clovis, to
the Concordat 1802. Constantine, Clovis, Santa Genoveva, Charlemagne, Godfrey, Joan of Arc,
kings, heroes, Napoleon, Cardinal Gonsalvi, different races, different tastes, different characters,
civilizations contrary: everything is stirred and mixed here, as are mixed in a niche ashes
several dead. That is not an exaltation of the Holy, that's a gallery of history: that is not a
religious picture, it is a social painting: this is not an altar of Christianity, is the trophy
of a nation. This queen of France, not the Redeemer of the world reigns artist, not the priest,
queen man, not God reigns. I do not understand how people pray here.

I could not pray. Ziegler fresh bright, magnificent marble floors, ceilings, beautifully carved
under the direction of Derrida calls and causes all matter, all encourage our sense, all poetry
is against the temple, because everything is against the poetry of the soul on all against the
austere and sublime poetry of the Cross. Santa Magdalena If the lifting of grave is quite
sure sign of the cross is outraged that the worship here, is quite
sure that would look at this temple, which a German looked at the
Basilica of St. Peter in Rome: A delicious temptations.

We left the Magdalena between happy and sad, and at twenty or twenty-five
steps we went back, to dominate the whole of this magnificent palace.

His view is nice, smooth, poetic, almost imposing. Looked outside the building, has a solemn
thing, because big also has its ceremony.

His plane is a rectangle of 70 to 80 feet long, about 20 to 25 of latitude, while some, on a base of
50 or more meters, running a peristyle or gallery of fifty-two gigantic columns among which
are many statues, with the saint's name and legacy. This confirms
more and more my previous idea.

If the temple is not an exhibition of fine arts, what comes to the artist? If is a place of
reverence, to whom we must worship only the saint?

The sculptor also puts his name is, asks his share of devotion, worship,
also claim their share of alms to the faith of the believer.

The sculptor wants to rule alongside the hero of the Church. These statues represent two holies:
the saint and the artist.

The reader should be somewhat lenient with me because I write without preparation, and uncorrected
a word of what I transmit to the paper. I see a thing, and without further background see, say good thing
that comes to mind, or what I feel. This has the disadvantage of neglect should be noted in the
work, but has, however, the advantage of the naivety and stricter
the most perfect accuracy.

Back at the hotel, we met at the door to the woman, who asked us with a smile very nice, if
we came to visit some monuments.

Yes, ma'am, I replied. We come from the Magdalena.

- What vous semble-t-il? What do you think? asked the lady, both fueling a eyes, and scoring
a lot of words, with some pride expression.

- I think, madam, replied,
that it is a place of triumph and joy, not sacrifice meditation and
reflection.

Venus is a not a Magdalene, a feast, not a tear. If that was not so magnificent monument, the
palace would be less, but more serious church.

Saying and doing, I took the stairs and the lady looked at me as a
person thinks and does not see his own thinking.

= =. Sixth day

Rivoli Street, home of the City, July column, Arc de Triomphe, Champs Elysees .-- Do live better
here than elsewhere?

Then people started to turn the lamps in the city, we went to the Rue Rivoli.

Let the reader imagine the following situation: put on the Place de la Concorde, opposite the Magdalena,
are two palaces: one is the Ministry of Marine and Colonies: the other is to different individuals,
which gave the palace to form a group formed symmetrical with the Navy.

Let's now left to the Madeleine, and found that between the Ministry of Marine and garden of the
Tuileries palace of the same name and the Louvre, half a 30 or 35 steps, which extends to the Place
de la Bastille, in a half-mile extension bit more or less.

Here, then, the picture: right (first) garden, the Tuileries Palace, attached to the palace of
the Louvre to the left, a row of houses symmetric three and four floors, but all the same height, forming
arches quite thick, up to the gate concludes that the Louvre.

Second, rows of houses to the right and left, symmetrical in form, not the direction, then a
huge turret with garden, then the house of the city with large square;
Finally, new houses along the street of San Antonio, which extends
to the square Bastille.

This is what is called the Rue de Rivoli. Is from 300 to 400 buildings, 300 and 400 arcs, each
of which hangs at the same height a gas lamp, is crisscrossed by 76 Street, among which I count
the Place Royale, the Royal Palace across the road and the Boulevard de Sebastopol.

If this is added to almost all the lower floors are luxury establishments, illuminated profusely,
and the 76 voyages will not be difficult to represent the picture offered Evening Rivoli Street.

Even
after seeing the Champs Elysees and Place de la Concorde, the beautiful gallery of Rivoli can only
offer a remarkable spectacle, something painful, if you will, because
we are overwhelmed with the impression that it causes in our minds
all work great.

So we went to the Place de la Concorde, we saw, between the play of many individual lights, a
continuous path of fire, shot to line; proportion as the car moved, we saw escape, as fleeting appearances,
rich and spacious Castiglioni street, overlooking a flash the enormous column of Vendome, the
Place and the Royal palace facade, perfectly lit, the wide boulevard Sebastopol, with its two
rows of lamps to be together as the gaze is prolonged, until they
are lost in a mound of shimmering lights, at a distance seems to eight
or ten miles, the giant black turret, with its garden around it, as
a lily planted at the foot of a deformed rock, the City Palace and
its park, lit by large lanterns, the barracks of Napoleon, to arrive
at the Bastille Square extensive, less brighter than that of Vendome
or Victorias, but no less interesting as a historical theater.

Here the scene changes in appearance, of a circle of light and noise, we pass to a circle melancholy
meditation and poetry. There are lights that come to be reflected in our eyes: lights are also
coming to be reflected in our soul. In this sense, the Bastille is most lighting stores Rivoli.

In
the middle of the square distinguish a large column topped by a globe on which sits his feet a figure.
From time to time, a reflection of the column came out and we Heria
confusedly seeming to discover how gold letters.

That was, indeed, as we reported several passersby. Those lyrics perpetuate the names of people
who suffer captivity of the Bastille, the prison's high state of
that Inquisition of the Middle Ages, of that Religious and political
Golgotha.

My readers know that all peoples have Greve Square, the gallows and hangman the iron ring: castration
in almost all Asia primitive shell of ostracism in Greece, Mount Taygetos in Sparta, Mount Calvary
in Judea, the rock Tarpeya in Italy old, the Inquisition in modern Italy, the Bastille in Paris.

The
scourge of Mandarin Chinese has traveled extensively in the land, set foot in France, and called
Bastille in the thirteenth century and before would have known otherwise, because it is clear
that the earlier ages, all human ages were also his Bastille. But other human age wine, the Bastille
was gone, he fell under the blows of the pickaxe revolutionary and its large rose debris and
courageous column of July. The monument of the century XIII happened the XVIIIth century monument,
the Capitol was built on the bloody rock Mount Tarpeya. The figure tops the monument, is the genius
of Liberty.

There, where now stands the column as a prayer rises to heaven, the cages were iron, built
in the shape of a funnel, so the prisoner could not stay but bent. Something unique! One man was
weighed using two brass rods so that his captive could breathe right
foot, when Providence had created for him captive all this vastness
that floats between the Bastille and stars.

There were victims of the sinister policy of Louis XI, Llarancourt William, bishop Verdun, Jaime
de Armagnac, Duke of Nemours and the Count of Saint-Pol.

There was also beheaded Charles of Contant, convinced of treachery towards the French.

There was likewise condemned to death Lallytollendal Count, whose innocence was recognized when
it was too late. There, in that political Inquisition of the Middle Ages, moaned on Basompierre,
the great Condé, the famous Fouquet, his friend and secretary Palisson,
the learned Sacy, The Duke of Laurum, husband of the granddaughter
of Henry IV, Marshal de Richelieu, the infamous famous Marquis de
Sade, Cardinal Rohan, the knight of Latude Mazers, Bruno de la Condamine,
and lately, a man who made a splash in the world, the glory and scandal,
the fable and admiration of his century, a man philosopher, theologian,
statesman, geographer, scholar, mathematician, novelist, scholar,
poet, a monster talent and daring, the most talented man more varied
and indefinable that has set foot on the earth there was Voltaire.

Wrote a satire against the ruler, and locked in the Bastille. But I forgot that the Bastille
account in their records a character that it still famous Voltaire, for the traditions of that
building. This character is the man in the iron mask, called and known well, on which the story
could not find anything, while the popular poetry content to amuse
the masses, making up stories and fables.

The Man in the Iron Mask it is a mystery added to the many mysteries that was the scene that mysterious
monument.

How majestic stands before me that stone monuments, the old incarnation
yesterday caste later incarnation of politics and modern art!

That stone is represented in my fantasy as the giant banished a century, to whom reason given
another century in an hour of truth and enthusiasm.

Who was to say to Philip Augustus and Louis XI to the ruins of that
Holy Office had to serve for the construction of new bridge, the most
popular, the most liberalized in Paris!

Many hidden breasts is history!

We returned to our cab, and we met again into the Rue de Rivoli, undoing the way you came. Upon
arrival at the hotel de Ville, we got out and ran to the front sight of this important building,
located opposite the main gate.

The new site where we also kept his poetry grim, terrible, instructive and moralistic as the monument
of Philip Augustus and Louis XI, because there is no poetry useless especially when it is terrible.
The place where we was the Bastille of another age; less logical, however cruel.

On the same ground that we now have the feet, were drawn and quartered
Ravaillac, Cartouche and Damiens, his throbbing member bloodied this
step on their soil now grandchildren with indifference.

Here also rolled the heads of two women, two women fatally celebrated two poisoners: the Boisin
and Brinvilliers.

We Rivoli street, go up the Magdalena and found ourselves at the Boulevard
name, he saw little Capuchin boulevards, Italian, Montmartre, Poisonnière
and part of St. Martin.

This new view is not so symmetrical and artificial as the Rivoli, but is longer, funnier and
more lively, more effect. Here's more expansion, more fancy, more fantasy: that is, there
are more individual creation.

The Rivoli is a gallery of the State.

The
boulevards are immense galleries of the people.

Thousands and thousands
of tubes and reflectors illuminate many shops, cafes, hotels, casinos,
as many thousands and thousands of lights are reflected in the mirrors
interior which almost all public, producing a kind of magic vision;
while the lanterns of hundreds of coaches coming and going in a continuous
wave, spacious boulevards make those oscillating in an atmosphere
of light.

It will be difficult to find in the world a city that lit
Paris. There are many establishments employing hundreds of lights,
and with regard to the cafes-concerts, is not an easy task the count.
But all that is seen in the bright spotlight that appears everywhere,
that everywhere is filtered more than once saw in the distance, should
be lowered a half. Half is due with the theater of mirrors inside,
due to the magic of Paris.

Everything tends to be magical, to boot
with filthy mud beneath our feet: same boot, the same shoe, humility
applied to the dress of the foot, has been here back their courtship,
their gallantry; au soulier galant. So Paris, while being an important
city, is apparent city, lying artfully, artistically exaggerated,
over-educated.

We arrived at the hotel about ten o'clock, and my
wife and I digimos: Paris is a beautiful monster, mostly very bright,
his home would be delicious without cars, with cars, is to be a living
hell