 

Ulysses protested vigorously. No: he desired that his vessel was never reassembled; estimated with
anguish the days remaining. If need be, leave him, staying forever in Naples.

- What do I have to do in Naples? - Interrupted Freya -. I am a bird of passage here, which same
as you. We met in the seas of the other hemisphere, and we have to rediscover in Italy. Next time,
if we meet again, will be in Japan, Canada, on Cape ... Keep going, amorous shark, and let me
go mine. Imagine that we are two ships are in a calm, miracles, exchange greetings, wish for
good luck, and then each away by his side, perhaps never to be seen ever.

Ferragut shook his head. That could not be, he was not resigned to losing seen again.

- Men! - She went on, more and more irritated -. Everyone can imagine that things must be according
to their whims. "Because I want you, you should be mine ..." What if I do not want? ... What
if I do not suffer the need to be loved? ... I can not live in freedom, no other love than
I am by myself? ...

Considered a disgrace to be a woman. The men inspired envy for their independence. Could stand
aside and refrain from wearing life passions, and nobody come to intrude on his retirement. Les
was lawful to go everywhere, to travel the world without her steps
lead behind a trail of applicants.

- You are nice to me, Captain.

The other day I was glad to meet you: it was an appearance of past. I saw in you the joy of my
youth starting to leave and melancholy of certain memories ... And yet, I'll end by hate: I
hear you, Argonaut heavy? ... I abhor because it serves to friend, because only you know about the
same thing, because it is a character novel, a Latino, maybe interesting for other women, but unbearable
for me.

His face contorted with a gesture of contempt and pity. "Ah, Latinos !...»

- All are the same, Spanish, Italian, French. All were born to the same thing. Just found a desirable
woman to believe neglect of duty if they ask for your love and what
comes next ... Can not a man and a woman just be friends?

Could not you be a good comrade and treat him as a partner?

Ferragut
protested vigorously. No, I could not