 Changing forms, but the soul remained motionless and unchanging, as of those
primitive beings, eternal witnesses of the first beats of life in planet, and seemed more
involved in the thick of dreams. And it would be good. Were great efforts in vain to escape
the fatal environment, heritage of the medium the circle in which we move forcefully, until
it was death and other similar animals came to turn in the same arena, believing free because they always
had before his steps new space race.

"The dead command," said Jaime once again in their thinking. It seemed impossible that men would
realize this great truth and are shaking in eternal night, thinking to new things in the glow
of illusions that arise daily, as there is the great deception sun to join the infinite, which
is dark and we find blue and radiant light ...

When Febrer thought this, the sun was hidden now. The sea was almost black sky leaden gray,
and the mist on the horizon lightning snaked down to drink in waves. Jaime felt on his face
and touch the wet hands of a few drops of rain. Would set off a storm that lasted maybe all night.
The lightning shone each closer. Rang a distant roar, as if two opposing fleets were being
shelling behind the curtain of mist on the horizon, approaching to it. The gentle water slides, smooth
as glass between the reef and the coast, began to tremble with ripples eccentric raindrops.

Despite this, the solo did not budge.

Remained in the rock, feeling a dull irritation against fate, rebelling with all the harshness of
his character against the tyranny of the past. And why had to send the dead? ... Why darkened the
atmosphere with particles of his soul, like a bone dust, which settled on the brains of living
by imposing old ideas? ...

Febrer suddenly suffered a dazzling impression, as though he saw an extraordinary light ever. His brain
seemed to expand, spread, as a body of water that breaks the camel oppressor of stone. It was
at the same moment a flash of light colored pale sea and thunder burst over his head, shaking
with a horrid clatter echoes the vastness Seas and the hollows and ridges of the coast.

"No, do not send the dead, the dead do not govern." Jaime, like a new man mocked his thoughts
shortly before. Those primitive beasts that he saw between the rocks, and like all animals including
sea and land, suffered slavery the medium. Sent the dead on them because they did what they would do
their descendants. But man is a slave in the middle: is your partner and sometimes its owner.
Man is an entity of reason and progress, and can modify the environment according to their
convenience. Was his servant in the past, in remote ages, but to dominate in part to the nature
and power exploit it, tore the fatal kind of wrap that other beings are prisoners of creation.
What could I care about the environment in which he was born? One would think if he wanted another
...

Could not continue in his reflections. The storm had, exploded on
him. The rain dripped the edges of his hat and ran along his back