 It
is against the poor against the worst criticism and interpretation given by some people sham
facts you refer.

High society, composed of subjects better educated than the masses, and most favored Fortunately,
neither is nor can be, or you want to be more corrupt and vicious than the common people ignorant
and low. Statement that the fund would be anti-progressive and anti-democratic
and in his last result, we would like to Rousseau to identify under
and savagery.

It is good to keep in mind, finally, that virtue is far from silent, modest and of retiring, while
the vice budge, shocks and stirs up everywhere. In contrast Duchess of cheerful you paint, is
certainly not a few others confined to their homes and without giving
anything to say, are very noble paragon of garments used in charity
and mercy.

If anything, I blame you, not to retract, in writing, but to continue writing and corrected,
is the gloomy pessimism that rather than feel it takes you by fashion: pessimism that in our
age of less faith than the centuries, has the desperation to end and that not so divine, otherworldly
and happy to put on his plays, poems, legends and other writings by authors such as Calderón whom
we have already mentioned.

    So what if the world
    is, not only the valley of
    tears, but dark cavern of
    infamy and wickedness, if shines again, beating him, dominating and
even forgiving all

The tree sovereign Iris peace that God put Among
the wrath of Heaven And the crimes of the world?

I venture, therefore, to advise you, because she is so young and it has no reason to complain their
misfortune, not a preacher goal yet, or show such stern and disappointed, and other novels
that tell us less serious incidents and events and more pleasant
and sweet, pouring into his satire, satire when lean, not ice, but
salt and pepper, not make it bitter, but spicy and tasty.

Anyway insist advise you not to draw back and continue writing. Although presume no prophet
is too easily predict and forecast, in view of spontaneity that you write, that all future novels will
be read with pleasure and may serve and serve as an innocent pastime,
if not also contain, which also can be expected, moral lessons and
all kinds of sound doctrine.

       

FIN

* * * * *

WORKS OF DON JUAN VALERA

Pepita Jiménez, a vol. at 8. º, 3 pts.

Luz, a vol. at 8. º, 3.

El Comendador Mendoza, a vol. at 8. º, 3.

Something of everything, one vol. at 12. º, 2.50.

The Illusions of Doctor Faustino, two vols. at 8. º, 5.

Too clever, a vol. at 12. º, 2.50.

The reputation, a vol. at 16. º with engravings, 2.50.

The sorcerer. The prehistoric bermejino. Blue salamanders, a vol.
at 16. º engravings 2.50.

Daphnis and Chloe (Greek translation),
a vol. at 8. º, 3.

Critical studies, three vols. at 12. º, 9.

Dissertations
and literary judgments, two vols. at 12. º, 6.

Stories and dialogues,
a vol. at 12. º, 2.50.

Poetry and art of the Arabs in Spain and Sicily,
three volumes in 12. º, 9.

Dramatic attempts, a vol. at 12. º, 2.50.

Songs,
ballads and poems, a vol. at 12. º, 5.

Stories, dialogues and fantasies,
a vol. at 12. º, 5.

New critical studies, a vol. at 12. º, 5.

American
Letters (first series), a vol. at 12. No, 1