 I've heard you lie. Ah, it was
the best shoemaker in Spain. Iban to take the shoes with him to the lords of Bilbao and Barcelona.
In addition, he composed dramas.

That night I left the cafe quite worried. I lay down and soon fell asleep. I heard in the next
room a cough followed by a mighty sigh. It was the voice of Don Guillén. I had an evil idea:
"If tomorrow night I bring to the Pinta and hiciese entering the
room of Don Guillén.

" I fell asleep going around that idea.

The next day, day of vigil, Don Guillen sat at the table.

- What
happens to Mr. Caramanzana? - Vejancona asked the widow, who already
knew the name of the canon.

- Do not eat today because it is slightly
delicate stomach - said Fidel -.

Did you see the color caught in it?

- It is heartburn - that went to Don Celedonio - .Todo the clergy and religious orders have
heartburn, because of the abuse of succulent foods and beverages.

- Calle you herejote - Dona Emerenciana admonished and threatened with her fan.

- And by the way, Fidel, you have not forgotten my job out. I've told the lady I I submit to this disgusting
travesty of the vigil, and in these holy days of Holy Week I meat
and fish.

I promiscuous, or promiscuity, I do not know for sure how to pronounce - said Don Celedonio.

-
Jesus, Mary and Joseph! What Judas Iscariot!

Don Guillén had better not come to the table, because he abochornaría
this abomination.

By the way, Fidel, the waiter, laughed taciturn.

After dinner, I left the metropolis and headed for my neighborhood. How about twenty steps
Fidel went before me, leading a large tray, cover with placemats.

We meet in the corridor where my room was.

- Fidel Psss ...-- whispered, required with nods to me closer -. You Raise the placemats.

I raised a point. I found plenty of stews and meats, among others, an opulent piece of roast beef.

-
Is the food of Don Guillén - said the waiter -. If not promiscuous, or promiscuous, I do not
I know how to pronounce, at least eat meat.

In this, he opened the door of Don Guillén, and himself, in person, marked by dark on light
gray box, surprising in a shameful and embarrassing fisgonería. He was dressed civilian clothes,
rolled the fur, which embeds the radiance, made him halo around the
head.

She wore red morocco slippers.

These two details struck me as acute notes the second suspension and silence that led us the
surprise: the radiant halo and bloody feet.

- Come you, pass you - making emphasis, turning to me. I obeyed, not yet recovered humiliating feeling
-. Sit down - I urged.

I wanted to apologize and leave. Canon added in a tone that I interpreted as imploring:

- Would not you grant me the favor, if you please, make me a little
company?

The appeal and the accent he replied in my usual balance.

I sat at a table with some books, papers, some water pipes, glasses,
and presiding over all those utensils and accessories intellectual
task, contained in a small frame of embossed silver, as a reliquary,
a photograph of a woman, I bent to look discreetly.

It looked like a virgin girl Rafael, of their time Umbrian.

- Put the food here, Fidel. Did you bring wine? Take it. I have something better .-- I came and twisting
head toward me: - What are you looking at the frame?

It is a relic of the fifteenth century, a gem.

- No, I looked at the portrait.

- A sister of mine who disappeared.

- What is missing?

- What was lost in the shadows.

- Ah!

...-- Indicated died so hesitant, pushing him to be clear.

- Some years ago .-- And after a pause: - It will take you a glass of cognac.

He took a bottle of cognac and a bon old wine in a pigskin briefcase, smart mundane garment rather
than a cleric. He sat down to eat. The more I looked, the less I seemed a priest and more
a man of the world.

- For the work of chance - he said, while eating slowly - you surprised me on my privacy man.
If a few moments ago, when found you ....

- Peering - interrupted - but at the request of the boy, and without assuming what it was.

-
Who cares? Say yes then I would have retired, you'd think I was a priest rogue and swindler. I could
not let him go without offering any explanation.

- I was the one that was ....

- You, Why? You, at most, was guilty of excessive curiosity. I, in view timid people, I am committing
a grave sin.

- I'm not timid.

- But I must give an explanation. Just as there are crimes in the
state artificial, in the Church sins are artificial.

Artificial crimes and sins are acts which do not hurt or impair justice or dogma (axes, respectively,
of the State and the Church), but contrary and disobey certain rules of conduct, accidental,
fleeting. One of those provisions transient is required to eat four-day vigil of Easter. Perhaps
the Pope current, or its successor, will come up amenguar perhaps eliminate this obligation.
The Material state is a community that is maintained by the mutual convenience, and the Church a
spiritual community that is sustained by mutual love. Therefore, the spirit of discipline of
the Church is of a different kind of spirit of discipline of the state. In the State the spirit
of discipline of the order of the feelings involved, for without discipline there is no mutual
convenience. In the Church, the spirit of discipline in the field
is generated the generous affections, is the willingness to sacrifice.

No other so that the lovers, for certification of mutual love, get love from the other proof, through
systems and capricious demands, abide by that which is love, so the
Church requires its faithful some disciplinary obligations, by spurring
the lukewarm to exercise and show love.

For people of good faith and clear sense asserted, are clerics, whether secular, these obligations
disciplinary rejoice: the essential is the dogma. The state provides a good degree of freedom
of thought (the thought does not commit crimes), but does not compromise the freedom of actions,
because break discipline.

The Church is uncompromising in terms of ideas and tolerant in terms
of activities, just the thought sins.

All sins, monstrous they may be, receive absolution in the confessional, but the slightest
doubt of the confessed on absolve us from faith. Now as this is common sense, stay secret to
those who have no common sense, are clerics, whether secular. Do you understand?

- Understand, I understand - I agreed. And indeed, he understood what I had said nothing difficult
to understand, but he does not understand. What was this man before me was, swallowing and reasoning
at the same time, chewing and flowing, so much coldness, scruples
and elegance, dressed as a man of society, without a hint sensitive
state church to which he belonged, and, from time to time, as he spoke,
he clutched his eyes portrait of a woman whom he had pushed the stock
pit brothel?

What was this man? A hedonistic? "An infidel? A hypocrite and a sophist, themselves and others?
A disillusioned? A tormented? What least interested me was the explanation
I had offered.

What if I ate gave me awake or waking stopped eating?

As if by a rare gift of immediate responsiveness, frequent in duólogos intimate and intense Don
Guillén had racked my thoughts in his head, said:

- It's less for you, is if I keep waking or not. The important thing is that you, works by chance,
as I've said before, I was surprised man in my privacy.

All monks, priests and ecclesiastical magnates, under the bunting,
the merino and purple hide a man.

Homo sum, I say to the heathen.

And I saw him again, in my imagination with the radiant halo and feet red.

- I was surprised you stripped me of my ministry. No minister of the Lord, but as creature of
the Lord, wretched and imperfect as all of them.

Within a few hours, I will address King, rather, about the king,
not several feet, which lift the pulpit, on the testa crowned and
anointed, but infinite spans, because I represent the conscience indelible
and everlasting which is inaccessible height above thrones, scepters
and sovereignty.

But here in this sad little room and in front of you, I can not incorporate
the voice of conscience, but I am poor dark hollow where the voice
of conscience echoes.

That was getting serious. Not knowing what to say, I stood with head bowed and eyes fixed on
a point, which by chance happened to be the portrait of the shrine.

- Do you like the frame? - Asked Don Guillén.

- I looked at the portrait. I know this woman - I said short.

Don Guillen was deeply disturbed.

- You are wrong - he said -. It will be another face like that you know. A woman can not meet
you. I told my sister that does not exist - and underlined the word sister and the verb "to exist.

After
dessert, Mr. Guillen was served a glass of brandy and whipped the conversation to put on an air
of alacrity and humor. He was so witty and intelligent.

As we parted he said:

- These days will not attend the roundtable. Do you want us to eat together, here in my room?
What is going to envy you .... Emerenciana Dona

In those meals surreptitious and idle desktops, my friend was telling me Don Guillén to pieces his story,
that of Sorrows Pinto and the parents of her and him, Belarmino and Apolonio. Then, on my own,
I made inquiries as important, the story of Caramanzanita Pinta and take second place.

CHAPTER II.

Ruera Street, VIEW FROM BOTH SIDES.

(The impatient reader scroll events to look light this chapter is not but the scene where the
action will develop.)

In the deep zone, black, sleeping in memory, Styx our soul, where have been plunging the affections
and images of old, rise, of rare rare unexpectedly old voices and old familiar faces, like a spectrum
without corporeality. As in the gloomy night and still breathe swamps and ghostly white mist,
so our Styx interior makes vapors released spectrum to the hours when darkness Sleep saturates
our spirit. But sometimes, incorporeal creatures from beyond memory stand in the light of day.

Right now I perceived I describe the Ruera Street, the very distinguished and longtime City Pillars,
where he lived Belarmino Pinto, also called monxú Codorniú, shoemaker and philosopher bilateral,
when, suddenly, at the threshold or edge of my consciousness, stands the spectrum Don Amaranth
Fraile, waving a fork pewter, as I was I figured trident Charon, the Neptune of the sea of ??eternity.
Silhouette Brutus to Caesar in tragedy Shakespeare, tell the disembodied shadow of the great gift Amaranth:

-
Speak! Speak!

And the shadow breaks to speak, with their own grace and insight that
delighted me so many years ago:

- Will you describe the Ruera Street?

Will you describe it, or you're going to paint? - I notice two new
features.

First, that now I don Amaranth is you. Second, the voice has been etiolated and sounds like
a eunuch. The voice continues: - The Cyclops saw the world surface, because had only one eye. Cyclops,
to see the surface world, wanted to attack the Olympus; but the gods
rushed into the deep Tartarus .-- Don Amaranth always with its own
mythology .-- The novelist is like a little Cyclops, that is, as a
Cyclops is not Cyclops.

Just Cyclops superficial vision and commitment sacrilegious to occupy the mansion of the gods
as a novelist seeks nothing less than to create a short universe,
that means something else be novel. The man, with the most stingy,
leads the cyclops, because of having two eyes that see in depth the
world of sense. Now describe it is like seeing a eye paseándolo the
surface of a plane, because the images are successive in time, and
do not melt, or overlap, and, therefore, acquire depth. Instead, the
vision proper to man, which is the vision diafenomenal, inasmuch as,
by focusing on the subject with each eye from the side, penetrates
at an angle and get two pictures side which merge in a central image
is a view in depth. The novelist, as man sees stereoscopically things
in depth, but as artists, is without the means that reproduce your
vision. Can not paint, can only describe, enumerate. The mission to
see with greater depth, finesse and excitement and teach others to
see itself Luckily, it's up to the painter. The novelist's original
curse necessarily figures must be extended on numerous objects. The
painter, however, pick a single object, or, if you take several, grouped
in small space, the focus and awareness. The painter the reverse of
the novelist, not left dominated by the vastness of the subject, but
it dominates. That is the object vertex of the angle of vision of
the painter, not the painter vertex angle contemplation of the landscape,
like the novelist. The painter who paints pictures of more of two
square meters, is relentlessly superficial painter. The question for
the painter large, it's concept, they realize that must be artistically
surface or whether it is superficial and inartistic without realizing
it. The famous fresco painters and ancient and modern, realizing this,
painted by long shots, die monotonous avoiding the obvious sense of
volume and depth were deliberately superficial.

I interrupt the shadow
loquacious voice eunuch

- In the nearby church has sounded the Angelus
meridian. In an hour be interrupting my work. If you listen, never
do anything but drag me idle during the delectation discourse. Tell
me, in short, how should I describe Ruera Street, and the description
as you please.

- Do not describing. Search diafenomenal vision. Inhíbete
on your person as a novelist. S two other people to see it at the
same time from opposite side angles