 I'm no good.

- If you serve, and now, help me peel these potatoes.

- Whatever you want. Ah ... I forgot.

Bottle drink tea ... and as is so delicadillo, must bring good.

- The best. I'll get him to China.

- Do not laugh. Go to the store and ask the called Mandarin. And while you bring a quesito good
for dessert ...

- Yes, yes ... take you and does not spill.

- You see that you are accustomed to eating in big houses.

- Just: as Boto's Tavern, across the street from Ave Maria ... ration of stew, a real; with
bread and wine, thirty-five cents.

- You are today ... I can not endure. But every avenge me, Nina. You command.

- Oh, if I did not send, would run pretty! Already we have taken to San Bernardino or very Pardo.
"

Joking and it was evening, and dine frugally, happy three and resigned
to poverty, bad tolerable and bearable when not needed a piece of
bread and to kill hunger.

And the historian should be noted also that the good climate in Doña Paca was a little twisted collected
both in the bedroom, the lady in your bed, Benin on the floor, having given Frasquito his bed.
Zapata's widow was so mercurial genius, in an instant, without to know the reason, the goodness
went from calm to insane rage, of childish credulity a crafty distrust of reasonable words the
most absurd nonsense. Knew very well bred this easy turning of the mind and the will of his wife, whom
compared with a weathervane, and without taking to heart their displeasure and a fit of rage,
he hoped that the wind changed.

Indeed, this varied from suddenly veering to the quadrant good, and if in a moment had become
purple thistle, later returns to his first condition.
The Dona Paca cranky at night I mean it must be attributed, according
to reliable, to Frasquito, in his talks in the afternoon, and the
times for dinner and desktop This showed a preference for Benina that
deeply hurt the pride of the widow unhappy. A good Mr. Benina expressed
his gratitude almost exclusively, reserving for lady a polite deference,
for Benina were all smiles, his most ingenious the tenderness of his
languid eyes, and medium ram die and many indiscretions Ponte joined
to call the angel as a hundred times in the course of the frugal meal.

And
with that, listen to Doña Paca, tucked between the sheets, while the
other was sleeping in floor: "Well, daughter, no one out of my head
that you have given a potion to this poor guy. Go how you want