 This is where I sleep nap when I get tired
of walking through the field.

In one corner was a superb carved oak bed entirely black by years. It was one of those beds of
the fifteenth century that the antique crazy. The hangings ancient
well.

Mattresses were spread on a modern damask wallpaper.

- This is where you set out to think more freely to me, is not it?

The count was stunned as if he had been hit in the head.

- Yo! ... Amalia! ... How?

But suddenly, with a gesture of resolution, said:

- Yes, yes, Amalia, you say it! Here I think of you as I think of all the places where I for
some time ... I do not know what happens to me, I live in a state of constant anxiety, and this,
as you told me a few days ago is a sign of true love. I'm in love you like crazy. I understand
that is an atrocity, a crime, but I can not help ... Pardon me.

And the knight fell to his knees, as one of their noble ancestors of the Middle Ages at the foot
of the lady.

This was outraged, to hear him terribly. How? Do not be ashamed of such a confession? Do not understand
the words that guide you in your home was an insult? How could suppose she had to listen to
the patient?

Lying seemed that the Comte de Onis a knight so accomplished, missing that way to what should
be a lady and what should be himself!

The count remained terrified and knees under this hail of insults. Considered serious his words, but
the anger that produced the lady was more than I had suspected.

Amalia finally kept silent. Irritadísimos eyes watched him with a moment. But a happy and cheerful smile
began to widen their expressive face. He walked slowly and majestically to him, put her hand on
his shoulder and stooping to put his mouth to his ear told him quietly

- You do well not to be ashamed of anything like that, because I, my lord, I love you at least
as much you do to me.

He wanted to go crazy. After the fright, clung to his knees kissing frenzy, overflowed in a sea of ??passionate
words, incoherent, full of fire and truth, as she, so brief, so tiny, that colossus looked exhausted,
with his mysterious eyes Valencia shining with love and passion.

With this immense work won the Count de Onis to the kind lady D. Pedro Quinones Leon.

The early stages of their relationships were agitadísimos for him, full of sharp remorse and intoxicating
pleasures. Amalia occasionally went to the farm. At night in the party He realized his visit
aloud.

He was shaking, it troubled, sweating with anguish while with perfect coolness narrated all
that she could tell, he spoke of the garden, censored the neglect was and what he enjoyed each
visit bringing some plants with intention to quit destroyed because its owner was not interested.
He carried their audacity to mock.

- Of course there is this man who suffers from the ladies visit him. Do not warn you what has become
irrelevant? I'm dreading the first day you go to the Farm compels me to third base.

The circles laughing. Yes, he looked more serious. Fernanda smiled sticking a glance loving,
the same D. Pedro softened his eyes, haughty, fierce, and let slip from her throat a hint
of laughter. What a prodigious effort cost the Count seem easy in these, moments! It seemed he
had a yawning gulf at his feet. And when he was alone Amalia he complained of his audacity,
and besought him with earnest words to be more cautious, as she impassively
on his fearful rejoicing, smiling contemptuously with his fine enigmatic
smile.

Unable to see only rarely in the House, Amalia found means to make more frequent Jacoba relying
on interviews. In this house were one or two times a week. The count came through a little door
that led to some back alley, the first thing Later, when the neighbors were eating. Expected at
least two or three hours. Amalia arrived Finally, under the pretext of giving some order to your
favor. But this is not enough yet devised by the gallery entrance of the church of San Rafael.
The count was horrified such a medium; all religious scruples rose up at once, plus I was afraid
that an accident discovered by chance that those loves and desecration. What a scandal! Amalia
laughed their fears as if the terrible consequences it would not
have to pay them.

She was I had absolute confidence in his star. Like good bullfighters are judged safer sticking
to the bull's horns if you do not lose your cool, so she defied the danger, went to meet him
hoping he would know to leave any mess. And indeed, perfect serenity, his incredible audacity
saved more than once.

The Count de Onis, the colossus of long beards was a real toy in the hands of that fixie reckless
and malicious. A mad passion seized both, especially her. Shortly by little getting used to not
live without it, not to spend a day without seeing him alone. Was incredible efforts of ingenuity
and skill to achieve. And if the circumstances were rolling in such a way that was impossible
in three or four days to enjoy an hour of solitude, his spirit Volunteers exalted, bounced into
the body like a steed impatient, and was prepared to throw a most unwise. He clenched his
hands, pinching gave full chat, hugged him behind the door when he was under any pretext go
to another room and more than once and more than two under the nose of the Grandee, return it to
the head, he pressed a kiss on the lips. Luis shook, paled, always
waiting for a catastrophe.

Within a few months, their relationship with Fernando, who had been cooling gradually broke down
completely. It was an essential requirement of Amalia. From the beginning it was coming preparing
to art ruler, marking the time was to be next to his girlfriend the times he had to take the
ball and even what he had to say. And as he had expected, the heir-Rosa Estrada, who was proud, could
not stand the cold her boyfriend, he was released and returned to his word. The girl pouring
out her grief Amalia, the only one who knew what to expect about
that much discussed break.

Showed this great anger at the conduct of the count and was expressed
in rather vivid against him; took part for the girl, bursting into
praise of her, not tired of weighing their eyes, its size, discretion
and kindness.

Ostensibly gave up some steps to reconcile.

And within the trust, particularly among the friends of D. Juan Estrada-Rosa, was content to
say that in every way Fernanda worth more than your ex-boyfriend, but surname to it with a thousand
epithets heavy; jayanote, turkey, sanctimonious, hypocritical, etc.. And when the next day he looked
at Jacob's house, he would say hugging him with laughter:

- I have made you yesterday, my dear, in front of several friends of D. Juan! You do not know! ...
You left my lips with pliers or you could pick.

Earl lived for all this, and the remorse that gnawed him constantly in a state of perpetual
turmoil. How far was to be happy! But it was all flowers compared with what was expected. Five
months into their relationship, one day he announced Amalia he believed to be in film. He said
with a smile on his lips, as if news he had won the lottery.

Luis became a whirlwind of terror, was pale, the view troubled him as if about to fall.

- God, what a disgrace! - Said her hands to the face.

- Misfortune? - She asked in amazement .-- Why? I am very happy.

So when his great eyes dilated, astonished, he said, laughing, that was happy to wait a token of
his love, that no one was afraid because she knew that nothing fixed was discovered. And indeed,
this skill was to squeeze that one might presume that this woman had a baby in her womb. What
scares, what anguish of the count while pregnancy lasted!

If someone looked at her insistence, I was shaking, if in the course a conversation Tertullian
alludes to a hidden labor, grew pale, thinking could be a hint. The faces seemed to see smiles
and meaningful glances; in the most innocent words, deep and sinister overtones.

Meanwhile she ate and slept quietly with a constant joy and terrified admired at the same time
the count. Time was, came seven months eight. For much to hide it, the count noted that his
beloved's waist widened.

When full of sorrow, she communicated with this remark, laughed:

- Shut up, fool, you notice it because you know. Who will be a little suspicious because fatter?
Many times I like to wear loose corset.

When he reached the critical moment showed bravery bordering on heroism. Luis wanted to rely a
doctor, she refused. Why? With the assistance of Jacqueline was enough. The trust that secret to
another person was dangerous.

We undertook the first symptoms at dawn, being in bed, but not until
eight summoned Jacoba, who under the pretext of making some mattresses
slept for several days at home.

Is locked in the cabinet, where they already had prepared the necessary
clothes and without a cry, without a movement out of touch, without
the mild complaint, that brave woman left her care.

Jacqueline took the baby with the mess clothing, after having sent
out with appropriate excuses servants.

The Count cried with joy and admiration to know this happy outcome.

Then, when received by Jacoba ordered to take the girl to the portal Quiñones, I felt heartbroken.
The plan her lover filled him with astonishment, but as he was accustomed
to obey, did what command.

The result topped the audacity of the lady was as she had expected.

And now, behold the creature forever secure, not only strengthened their love and refined, but felt
the joy of victory, which after strong run time finally arrives at the port of salvation.

Very quietly, hands clasped, occasionally tilting his head to brush the front lip of the girl,
spoke at length, rather, dreamed awake, wanting to penetrate the
unfathomable depths of time.

What would be the fate of that beautiful creature? How it educate? Amalia said as his daughter get
to educate, make a real young lady was sure that D. Pedro would not
oppose it.

And like he had no children, who, having nothing more natural taken
a liking to leave her to her death a significant legacy.

The Count made a gesture of disdain. The girl did not need finances
D. Pedro.

He would leave all their own.

- But you can marry and have children - said the lady looked at him mischievously.

He covered his mouth.

- Hush, hush! You know I do not want to hear it even. I'm definitely attached to you.

She kissed him warmly.

- Sealed, right?

- Sealed - he said firmly.

- But do not you take
care of that if you leave your property at will, then born the suspicion
that it was your daughter?

This difficulty for a moment struck him. Both were engaged in some way to arbitrate circumvented.
The count wanted to leave in trust to someone you trust.

But this also offered its drawbacks.

Best would be putting money in your name at a bank, and upon reaching the age of majority,
pretending an inheritance, to invent a parent out of the blue ...

-
Finally, we'll talk about that ... Let my care - she concluded.

And he kept it very willingly, trusting of his inexhaustible imagination,
their willingness and audacity.

When they tired of talking about what future they turned their eyes to this. It was necessary
to baptize girls. Had decided that was the next day.

- We have agreed that the godmother and godfather I were you.

- How? I? - Said scared .-- But, my dear, do not you understand that it can breed suspicion?

The
lady persisted. Yes, that was to be godfather. If suspected, bon
appetit.

She did not care. But actually seeing him change his mind distressed.

- Do not worry, man, do not worry - said giving a tug to his beard .-- It was a joke. Good going
to face when you had to put on the stack! Do not be missing more
than shouting Gentlemen, here!

Come here for all to see the father of this child!

The sponsor would Quiñones, and its representation D. Enrique Valero. Her godmother, represented
by Maria Josefa. The count was very pleased. All that was skillful and prudent and appropriate
to ensure the fate of his daughter. But after that happier, a rumor that came the hallway
made him jump in the chair, get livid.

- What are you, man?

- That noise! ??...

- It Jacoba ...

But seeing him doubtful, even frightened eyes, stood up, taking the child in her arms, opened the door
and exchanged a few words to James that, indeed, was there. After deliver the baby and close,
he returned to sit.

- How you coward, say?

- It is not cowardice - he blushed .-- It is said that I am always
startled ... I do not know what I passed ... Perhaps consciousness
...

- Bah!

Are you a coward. Since you have the big body you walk the soul within him.

And the next breath, looking at the expression of anger and sadness
that was reflected in his countenance, turned to embrace him with
transports of enthusiasm.

- No, you are cowardly, but innocent yeah
... That's why I love you I love you more than life.

Is not it true that you want your fillet?

I'm yours ... You are my only love.

I'm not married ...

And with affectionate cat caresses his hands he walked the thin, pale face stamped in his tiny,
endless kisses, his arms knotted it around his neck, biting it with mild and transient Mouse bites.
And while she, as grave and silent visit, was flowing from his lips a constant stream of sugary
little words that numbed and intoxicated. The fire, which is guessed at from their large eyes mysterious
and treacherous, gushing now with live flames. It was the enjoyment of sensuality which flowed
from his being, but it was also met fad evil delight, revenge and betrayal.

The Count de Onís felt increasingly subdued. The caresses of his beloved were scorching; but always
kept his eyes in the depths, a cruel reflection of domesticated beast. Felt love and fear
at the same time. Superstitious spirit ever came to imagine if a Tempter would come to stay
in the feeble little body that Valencian.

After calling three or four times he was leaving, not stop them carrying
out by her, looking after his arms free, he rose from his chair.

The parting was long as usual.

Amalia will not let go until I saw him drunk, intoxicated by the violence of his touch. Jacoba
was waiting in the corridor. After driving for this and several other to the room where the ladder
was excused to go to the library, made him sign to wait and got one to make sure nobody was in
the hallways. Became up to warn, the count down, turning as could the sound of his boots. In
passage of the dividing door left him, after opening the door. Low again until playing with his
hands on the ground to not be warned of people who pass by the street and in this way through
the passage of the rostrum. He opened the door and entered.

The darkness blinded. As he felt a blow a few steps back and heard a gruff voice saying at
the same time:

- Die, infamous!

Froze in their veins the blood and took a step backwards. In the shadows he could see thick
even more black lump.

Quick as lightning rushed upon him, and they have been destroyed
under his huge body if not feel suppressed laughter while Amalia's
voice.

- Care, Luis, you're going to get hurt!

The shock left him
speechless for a moment.

- But where have you been? - Said at last.

-
Well, the main staircase. I've missed this black hood over and I dropped
off.

And seeing him cold and disgusted by this hoax, stood on tiptoe
on the edge of feet quickly colgose his neck and then tightening the
lips long and passionately against hers, said in smarmy accent:

-
I knew you were not a coward ... but wanted to check.

V

Paco Gómez
jokes.

However, Garnet had not persuaded to Paco Gómez proceed in
good faith. His character ludicrous, the terrible a practical joke
that was attributed perjudicábanle in the mind of Indian. Continent
was not enough to adopt serious and keep him long talks about the
rise or fall of the Bank's shares, or the house you praise above all
factories modern and give him useful advice on the game sheet. Anyway,
the funny Lancia observed there in the bottom of their big eyes fierce
wild boar, a cloud of suspicion that could dissipate. In this predicament
called for help to Manuel Antonio. He had made up his mind funny joke,
and before giving her consent to any alliance.

- Do not kid yourself,
Santos - said the queen, according to Paco, walking one evening by
the hype Garnet, - you, as you've spent more than half of the life
behind the counter, no understand anything of these sets. Fernanda
not tell you this shawl for you, but walks in this way I say and I
stand here and everywhere. I have long since come noticing. Women
are capricious, incomprehensible one thing today and tomorrow reject
the crave and are willing to do anything foolish to achieve it. Fernanda
began rechazándote ...

- Entodavía! Entodavía! - Silently said the
Indian.

- Pure appearance. She is very proud and will not ever budge.
But as well as a lot of pride not only marry the Comte de Onis, or
you, the two only parties that are in Lancia for her, the count by
the nobility and you for the money. Luis is a very strange man, I
believe it unable to marry. She is convinced now of the same. He has
no more than you, and you will be after you eat the fig ... Furthermore,
more than any other say anything, women like men like you, strong
... because you are an oak tree guy - he said turning to head in admiration.

Garnet
let out a roar corroborating. The fairy moved her hands over his torso,
as deep knowledge of masculine forms.

- What muscles, boy! What a
man!

- With these guys you see here - said the Indian with pride
- you have won many thousands of dollars.

- How? Loading "bags?

-
Bags! - Maroon said smiling contemptuously pa .-- That is the mob.
Sugar Boxes as cars! 

The bomb was deserted at that hour