 Been so worthy, so
severe, so natural, so without fear or fuss vulgar female who is honored or presumed to be, as if
they were two duchesses and princesses who have had the whim going out at night to roam the streets
and had been persecuted for a few minutes, by a footman spoiled and vain enough to believe seductive.

The
Count, nevertheless, perhaps because it was so, perhaps because the
self-deceived him, noting he had believed in subtle gestures, the
gesture, something that has barely been see and you could barely see
or evaluate, but by a delicate understanding like yours and so adept
in affairs, that the married woman he had been less indifferent and
more favorable, which could be glimpsed in his face contentment, being
satisfied vanity followed by a young man as principal and so handsome,
and until I looked once or twice sideways and concealment, with a
curious sympathy.

Would you write, then, to the married? But what right had I to do? What could I say? What if the
husband was jealous and took the letter? Do not be exposed from the outset to preclude or hinder
the future and greatly to the success of his adventure?

The count withdrew, therefore, writing to the married.

It seemed the single most beautiful and distinguished, but he was
in high dudgeon against it.

There forged it does not delude itself that there was no doubt about
it.

Ines had no more for him than a junkyard dog. Not conceive explained that serenity Olympic that
gentle godliness, which is reconciled by a strange contrast with the humility and modesty, the
Count was suspecting if Ines would be idiotic, but remember your eyes, graceful gait and intelligent
expression of her beautiful face, and had to confess that either he did not know what they were
women, Ines was most discreet mother was born.

How, then, write to Inesita? This was more difficult than writing to Dona Beatriz.

Incur no hypocrisy here in the foolish imagine, when writing a story that moral society has a
much higher than it actually is. Say things like it is.

Is singular, it is not logical, it is absurd, but the following happens. So it is in the customs
that any gentleman say his bold thinking a married woman, that it offended rarely. For virtuous it
is, is merely rejected or gently disabuse the claimant. Will not be offended, when in fact you
had proposed the infringement of a moral law civil and religious, his disgrace and his home, and perhaps
the vileness of a theft of material goods if you do have a child. Instead, just be single, as
it is not completely lost not considered injured if you are asked to presuppose love without
marriage in an explicit way or implied, and indeed, the lack of which then induce the single
would be much less than that sought in the marriage. The single, free, not deceive her husband,
not fail in any undertaking, not to expose anyone for legitimate heir who ought not to be.

This
is accurate.

There is no argument against it is worth. And yet, just be seductive however brutal, irreverent
and outrageous that is, who dares claim a maiden, without proposing good order, and hardly
any Tenorio, for frail, sickly and fehuelo God or the devil already done so do not tempt the
ford, declares with unabashed boldness and daring to intending all of a married woman.

Our hero, without getting into philosophical about what has been said, I had only known. So,
by this consideration, although not attend to others, was more difficult to write to Inesita
that Dona Beatriz. Write to Dona Beatriz, as married, use, practice, jurisprudence established,
it consented without pass for libel. Write to Ines, however, could not vejarla be without despising
and cruelly, as the Count did not tell or give rise to understanding that aspired to marry
her.

Now, the Count and was in love, or thought of marrying anyone, let alone with Ines: only aspired
to hang, but the Count was also their moral, and there was no time, good it was, that he deserved
to stoop to lie and deceive a poor girl, into believing that he could
marry her.

So write withdrew Count Dona Beatriz for reasons of prudence and strategy amatory, and withdrew
Inesita write more delicate considerations. But why not withdrew to know them and treat them both.
Let him brooding and run the most wise to this, and we fast forward,
penetrating invisible in our heroes home and knowing them before the
Count.

IV

The most able and judicious critic, perhaps, among those who are in Spain I have already done
two or three Sometimes, when judging other novels of mine, a favor and disfavor do not think I
deserve, but if I deserve this time away from mend, incur more fully than ever in its censorship,
which Moreover flatters me. The critic assumes that all my characters are me, which makes
a Proteus me because I had enough different characters portrayed,
and further assumed that everyone talks about, in the same situation
as I speak, with erudition, discreet subtleties and philosophical
spirit someone of his lowly status and even sex, since women often
spend my lists.

In this story, where, as the title indicates, the most important characters each to his own
style, they will play smart, sin, could not help, contrary to the critic wants. The blame,
if any, because I refuse to plead guilty, is in the choice of subject. Already chosen, I have
no recourse but to make my heroes, retaining each of its nature, its passions and its unique features,
all as discreet, subtle and ready know and I can because this has
to be the major defect of these, and all them, the protagonist of
the story.

I make this statement here for Dona Beatriz, who will soon hear about my readers not catch them
off guard. Doña Beatriz was listísima.

I do not remember which book, treatise or letter of the Old or New Testament, is said to the spirit
blows where it pleases with that statement is more than enough to justify the plausibility that
the spirit, whether it be divine, whether it be evil, it would blow being penetrated a girl
of twenty years, he had no Dona Beatriz, born and raised in a the province of Cordoba. There is
also another macaronic sentence full of truth, which reads thus: Quod natura non dat, non proestad Salamanca,
which can be inferred, as Logically, that Mother Nature has no need
of Salamanca, or say to yourself in deep studies and throughout the
world try to make very subtle and understanding to those who like
to promote, even if they are women, and women's place.

This issue had Dona Beatriz, who, on his innate clearance, although there was no studied in
any college, had some knowledge acquired in the common conversation
her husband Don Braulio, who enjoyed a reputation for subject is illustrated,
although only 3,000 had ESP annual salary.

Doña Beatriz and Ines, orphan of father and mother since childhood, had been in care and raised
in the village priest's house. Were not entirely poor. They had some finquillas, who came to
produce, well-managed, real income about 4,000 each. This was difficult for the people, not
to instill a violent passion, to marry any of them with rich gentlemen or lords, and as both girls
were fine, real girls, was not likely to have wanted to marry with
any carrier or no hick farmer rustic and ignorant.

Priest Father suspicion, but later, he had educated his eyes of pure evil good, and that result
of their good education, went to left on the shelf images. Fortunately no happen. Revenue Manager,
Don Braulio, tried to Dona Beatriz, and found that nice and unobtrusive that he loved her. She thought
he had found a man at Don Braulio who, though old, could fall in
love with his talent and other noble garments of the soul, and love,
or convinced that they were, were married after a short courtship.

The priest tutor who was very old, died a few months after this marriage.

Absolutely nothing left to his pupils.

Of a sister, a widow, was the priest's nephew, twenty-eight years old, called Paco Ramírez. This
was the universal heir of his uncle, consisting of the assets of the inheritance the house with
furniture and books, worth around 40,000 real and liabilities in various debts, passing, also
real, 30,000.

Paco Ramírez was a very handsome boy, and so restrained, economical,
active and fruitful in resources, 50,000 reals with his father had
left him money, using barley and wheat buying cheap grape harvest
time, making wine drinking a few pipes I had, then by selling loads
to carriers, and, in short, a thousand other wheeling and dealing
However, while all legitimate, not only held loosely at his mother,
but who dressed majeza it up with elegance, the use of people, and
was gradually increasing the capital.

Often the priest had thought that his nephew might be a good husband
to any its two eyes, but as it was a good game, the priest stopped
his thought and purpose, and never did anything to be done.

Paco, and Ines Beatriz they loved as brothers. Paco, who was six years older than most of them,
and ten more than the second, which at first seems enormous age difference, they had a baby
that he described as paternal. They were daughters of the illustrious gentleman people, even though
they had come to such poverty, and he, a plebeian, and archiplebeyo
all four sides, and under the blessings of fortune that his uncle's
eyes, how had he dared not even imagine that he could marry either?

So, Don Braulio married Dona Beatriz, and soon, as we have said, died priest, who was excellent
subject.

Ines, as was natural, he went to live with his sister and brother, followed in Seville, and
then followed this lively capital of Spain.

Since leaving the place left Paco entrusted to the administration of assets it had, with the
assurance that no one had to manage them better.

Paco, in effect, responded to that trust. So in the time our story begins, when appear in the
Buen Retiro our two heroines, had between them just over 8,000 real year, which together with
the 12,000 counted evil Don Braulio, totaling an annual taleguita
very run and long-waisted.

Even if life were removed, as everything is expensive, and well treated,
and dressed with a certain class for class, income and salary are
completely consumed, and thanks if you were not sometimes in distress.

To get out of them, living lavishly and rise to higher position in the social hierarchy are two
paths, lit by hope, to the acute consideration of Dona Beatriz, which brooded a lot about these
things since he left the place, already married.

Doña Beatriz was the highest form of intelligence and knowledge of her husband. Attributed
their lack of success in the world to neglect, contempt or disdain that Don Braulio was all practical,
a certain lack of stimulus that could see into his soul, and was
inclined to believe that if she encouraged and spurred the soul of
her husband and away from theoretical vague dreams and distractions
that led to nothing, it was still possible to see him as Minister
of Finance, or at least Director of Monopolies.

The other point, it was as the foundation or cornerstone on which stood Beatriz the castle of
his ambitious hopes, was the beauty, the elegance and distinction of his sister Ines.

Doña Beatriz, married and with a man who worshiped and wanted, and
who was indebted to have left the place where he drowned, and spaced
by large cities, limiting its mission to achieve the greatness to
serve as a spur to the reluctant will of her husband; but Inesita,
single and free and full of attractive, she would know and enforce
complete with his wisdom, saw a reef Beatriz still intact, a rich
mining of all property, and prosperity encumbrances.

Import declaration in honor of Dona Beatriz, who draw on their imaginations to the ascending process
of each other plan of happiness, now using Don Braulio, Inesita prays never occurred to him put
in the composition of the least touch his picture sinful. Nothing thief comes. Doña Beatriz I wanted
to play fair.

Don Braulio had to be first-rate character without stain nails, and Ines was to be a countess,
marquise, and who knows if Duchess, without the least levity and all ecclesiastical and civil requirements.

Beatriz's
pride, his aristocratic decorum, which was, though born poor diapers, and their Christian beliefs,
alive and fervent as educated by a priest ejemplarísima of virtue, repelled any remedy that
might tarnish, but his desire to rise and raise your family will
suggest, in his view, decent and honest means by which to achieve
wealth, honors and awards, with ease and without dishonor or guilt.

Doña Beatriz fully discovered their plans and hopes and Inesita Don Braulio. He feared to frighten
and scare saliesen contradiction and opposition. Cautious and cunning, deftly bring the dream of
one and the other in the ways that she deemed conducive at the end
to which he aspired, and already committed and placed in him, and
when was very difficult to return ago, it declared its purpose and
show the term, if not see him.

With Ines, above all, that was about poetry and inexperienced, Beatriz came to top caution and dissimulation.

From
the night they had gone to the Buen Retiro had spoken several times
of the gentle knight that had followed, but never discover all his
thinking.

Doña Beatriz, by the phrases he had heard the Earl of Alhedín and his companions, by the car he
had seen and some news that after he had collected with skill, know the Count was single, very
rich, very noble, no father, and a mother who had no will but yours. Now, what is impossible
that the Count would fall in love Inesita resolutely and marry her?

More mixed marriages have been and see every day.

With a little luck and with rare discretion of Dona Beatriz was deemed gifted, well Inesita could
marry the Count. Ines was, as mentioned above, an adorable creature. Until his indifference
to its spirit, slept all ambition, could contribute to winning.

Nothing will damage both the other girls in this to catch a good marriage, as the naive and ill-disguised
effort to catch him.

Thus, Beatriz from sleeping with his sister and did not seek to awaken
their ambition.

That indifferent and sublime dream was a powerful weapon which should not be detached. She,
tell until a suitable opportunity came, would lead to her sister without removing the poetic
sleepwalking.

Sleepwalking and everything mattered, however, that Ines should move itself, and for this Dona
Beatriz had already played, and even thought to touch, any other
spring of your soul less the ambition and greed.

With these plans and intentions, the evening of the Earl heard at
the Ministry of Finance who their unknown, they talked alone in his
poor house, while waiting Don Braulio, who was working in the Secretariat.

-
I do not understand, Ines - Beatriz said, sitting in an armchair in
front of his sister -