 If Rosalie had not passed away, peace, after that transient alteration
would have made a solid king at home, but did not know the Pipaón and restraint, and the habit
of secretly circumvent the rules of the Order was bringuística and deeply rooted in his soul.
Proporcionábale this habit, as well as the satisfactions of vanity, a hidden pleasure. Who had
so long been a slave, why ever was not to your liking? Each of those actions wrong and illegal
caressed the soul before and after smoking. Consciousness knew how to draw, no one knows where, a
thousand sophistries that justify all fully. "Quite a few hardships I've had ... Why, perhaps not worthy
I another position? ... You will have to get used to me a little more liberated ... And ultimately
After all, I look for the honor of the family ...».

What most troubled his mind in those early days of solitude and heat was the need to return the
money in the casket. Milagros had given him everything. Where do you get what was missing?
Instantly she remembered Torres, and since I had the opportunity to do so, made him a discrete
indication. "He had, what a pity! If a friend had ... Finally, the next day response. " Our
friend was not baked the bread to know the answer Torres, because every time I thought next disaster,
which would be great, strong and inevitable, since Bringas register their treasure. Fortunately
or by special intervention of the saints who invoked the Pipaón not yet had happened to the good
man lift the top ceiling. But when he did ...! And it was not worth the discretion of papers with
rude art imitating tickets, because I saw the mouse, albeit poorly, and it was impossible
to touch was relying only to the tonnage of the box. On tenterhooks the lady was all day 31 and
part of the immediate Torres gave up hope remedy. She began making it difficult, considering
what had worked to understand the convenience of the loan to his friend. Which was a certain
Torquemada, a man who did not your money without collateral. On that occasion, however, in deference
to Torres, would not require the husband's signature on the contract, because the lady was
enough ... I could not do the loan more than a month, date extended, and giving four thousand
pieces of the note would four thousand five hundred. Ah, the four hundred thousand were deducted
brokerage real ...

Rosalie saw the heavens opened when Torres gave him the news, and all it seemed little revenue
and brokerage, for the great favor that he did. With three 1800 actual would have enough for
their purpose, and you still have more than enough about six dollars for something unforeseen
occur. Everything would be fixed the next day August 2.

And the time running out, and the danger was imminent, as discussed
by this phrase Bringas copied verbatim:

"Daughter, I am sending Golfín
account and will have to pay it after tomorrow 3.

He leaves 4, as I have said today. I shudder when I think of meat this man will take me by man
of means. How much will I? Can you think of yourself? I've thought about it all night, and I
had nightmares as Isabelita ... And today I said a phrase I Golfín got chills ... What I say,
you're losing me with the sheen loud that you see ... Well look that makes me laugh ... when
you do not know if we will be wrong with the doctor, that I say ... so, with that cheeky twang
... "Mr. D. Francisco, yesterday saw his wife out of Mass San Ginés twelve ... Ever so elegant !...».
So you will be happy elegance knife that this man is going to mow your neck. "

At half past ten the other day, while Don Francisco and the whole
family was often in ride on the Cuesta de la Vega, the operation was
performed.

Usurious appeared with accuracy, a fixed time, Torres and Torquemada. This was a middle-aged
man, graying beard shaved four days, dark and a clerical air. Invariable practice was to ask him
by the family to make your greeting, and spoke the words apart and put between paragraphs asthma breaks,
so that he could not hear but feel contaminated obstructions in the emission of breath. Accompanied
his tiresome speeches slow Lift the right arm, forming with the index finger and thumb a kind of
donut to put it to his partner before his eyes, as an object of veneration. The visit was brief.
The only part of the contract to repair was made Rosalia concerning the time a month, which
seemed too short, but Torquemada said he could not extend it. "In early September had to ...
give a bond in the County ... Provincial, because presented to the auction ... Hospitals meat.
While Pensáralo ... lady not have believed it if possible ... refund at the time ... agreed,
the loan ... not be verified. " In all it agreed the lady, attentive only to leave the conflict of
the day, took money, signed, and the two friends parted, leaving expressions for the owner home
to one of them who did not know. Remained the Pipaón thrilled, and thought only on how to enter
in the money pit. A little difficulty occurred, and that was that not having a ticket of 400
scudi, but several small, had to procure a of those. If the bills were otherwise, but the amount
was the same, the cominero be called misleading. With the pretext of making a visit out in
the afternoon, frightened to death, suspecting her husband whenever he pleased, while she was
away, recording the Treasury. But a good angel watching over her, nothing happened during the
time spent doing the unusual exchange small bills for large one. The money changer in the street
looked at Carmen some wonder. At night, the delicate operation to replenish the amount embezzled
was made with all happiness.

Rarely had he felt so nervous my friend Bringas as in the moments leading up on arrival Golfín account.
At about ten o'clock on day 3, he sent a message Paquito verbal, begging the doctor promptly
send her note attendance fees care, and would be half past eleven when the boy returned home,
bringing a letter.

Bringas not breathing while her trembling hand tore the envelope and unfolded the paper. Rosalia
waiting also eager curiosity ... Eight thousand pieces! Reading this sum was perplexed Bringas,
wavering between joy and sorrow, as if the amount seemed excessive, on the other hand, fears that
were absurdly large, calm down before the true figure. There sometimes believed that the bill would
not lower than twelve or sixteen thousand pieces, and this suspicion will put out of it, others
conceived it not exceed four thousand. The party had actually the difference between these two sums
illusory, and finally came to comfort economist with arguments of Don Hermogenes school, saying
that if eight thousand reais were a lot of money compared to four, were relatively little sixteen
... A further reason his Don Hermogenes that dominated the tumult of ideas at that time arithmetic
boiling in his brain, and that was that Ridley, as the recommended sick of the Queen, having
had no been nothing ...

XXXVIII

"But anyway, I agree. I have not gone wrong, for I have come to my eyes. The first is health and
health first sight.

And the truth is that this murderer has cured me well.

Eight realitas thousand! It is quite possible - he added with a sigh and feeling annoyed slightly
- which, if not been for your elegance, the shotgun would not have happened four thousand
...».

He took the money, he put a card very fine and very polite, thanking the learned doctor admirable
for his assistance, and all, letter and notes, oh sweet treasures of his soul, was introduced Gorgeous
in an envelope, of the office. Paquito was to take the second message. If Bringas sadly saw the expatriation
of his beloved banknotes, on the other hand felt the deep satisfaction and experience of pay.
This pleasure is only given to people a lot arrangement that to save money on saving feelings
it produces, and of these, they are content to enjoy the most pure and spiritual.

Glided after this day with tedious slowness, the month of August, the month Madrid is Madrid,
but a solitary pan. In those days there was more theater summer circus of Price, with its
seemingly clows horses and that made all nights the same graces. The historic Prado was the only
place of solace, and in his twilight the love and conversation groups spent their time in conversations
more or less boring heat with defending abanicazos and sips of cool water. The locals that spend
the summer at the Villa are the real outcasts, outlaws, and his only consolation ie drinking
the best water in the world.

In his horrible boredom, dislike the Pipaón to go to the Prado, because I was reviewing this as
of misery and vulgarity. He had used many times the vexed formula-explanation of exile: "We
took a house in San Sebastian, pore ...»; Bringas disease and tired of it, dodging the chances
of repeating. At night and some people Bringas of the few in the city had been, they would get seats
on the terrace, and were North side of a group that lacked animation. Candida never failed.
Completed Mrs. gang of Montero de Espinosa, the two heads of office, that of an officer the secretary,
the director of the Royal Tables, the head of Wardrobe del Rey. Males attending the few that
there were lots, and were class lower, but the summer is very democratizing, and my dear Bringas,
longingly of society, not disdain to alternate, at a gathering in the open, with goalkeepers
Banda and Glass, with Storage Manager, with the aide of Silver, with two lockers, people all six
thousand reais down. These used to join a kitchen helper, who enjoyed fourteen thousand, and
some Saleta usher, who saw nine thousand. At these gatherings there was talk heat had done
for the day, the Court had already left the farm for Lequeitio, and other minutiae of personal
and household. On the third floor and in the spaces squares mode cut the length of the corridors,
streets, social gatherings were also formed office of porters, maids, sweepers and people coming up
out of stables. In the corresponding site large bars overlooking the Plaza de Oriente, on
the ledge, the strike lasted all evening with great entertainment, laughter, guitar playing and a
soft drink horchata strains. Doña Candida trilled against these disorders, because he could not close my
eyes all night, and threatened offenders to report them to the inspector general.

In the morning the whole family down to the Manzanares, where they bathed and Alfonsin Isabelita.
Dad had brought back to light denim suit, and with this, and the
straw hat seemed he had just come from Havana.

Sheltered from light for very dark glasses, his eyes healed quickly, thanks to the timely completion
of the treatment plan that had Golfín left. The morning air and the joy of the resort will
put in a good mood, and constantly asserted that if the fools who will be known establishments
Jeronimos, Cypress, the Rainbow, the Esmeralda and the Andalusia, the win would not have fixed
migration. Paquito also threw intrepid wave of those little dirty seas, sandwiched between
mats, and swimming was a beauty, standing on the bottom. A Alfonsin was necessary to beat him
out, and she entered only to force. Five returning slowly small appetite for ostrich, D. Francisco
very happy and purposes lunch not to offend. To lower the river, Bringas had to overcome the repugnance
what inspired him. Just for the sake of her children she was able to make that sacrifice. Le disgust
gave water and bathers, all people more or less. I could not look without horror septa mat, more appropriate
to threaten the decency to keep it safe, and Regular urchins shouting him so much nerves.

In
the afternoon, almost dusk, would come down to Madrid to visit a friend or to around known stores.
These had very few people. Luenga curtain kept in the local atmosphere less heat than the street,
and this darkness, as the idleness invited to the employees to sleep on pieces of cloth. Occasionally
found home for Sobrino Hermanos to some lady behind, some banished like her. New edition the
famous formula: "We took a house in San Sebastian, but ...».

The other would say with commendable frankness: "We hope to trains flights of September."

As
in those days were shopkeepers hand over hand, to show entreteníanse Mrs different fabrics and
things on a whim. "This will be much in the fall ... This is now range, because it is the fashion
of the season. " These phrases seemed to come from the folds of parts to be unfolded. The principal,
who was preparing to make the usual trip to Paris, urged to buy something, and she fell into temptation,
sometimes because I had some real bargains, others because the genre he entered through his
right eye, lighting all the fires of his passion Trappist, and could
not fail to satisfy, on pain of suffering long, the desire to purchase.

Oh! The martyrdom of the summer had to compensate in next fall, dressed as God commanded, her husband
liked it or not. Was intended a new dress made of velvet for winter and one of the most graceful
canopy, new and elegant. At Young children dress like princes. Ya, ya see the bobbin with Who
was ... Thinking about these and other plans, slowly walked the streets again home, he stopped at
the shop windows of fashion and jewelry, and made a thousand calculations the more or less remote
chance of having something very valuable and rich he saw. Sadness of Madrid in this period increased
his sorrow.