 We went two and toured the gallery, without finding any person, and the
strange case of the man who seemed to be coughed throughout the trip.

Tired of searching, we returned to the room, and crossing the threshold, the mysterious cough
suffering character, so that increased clearly hear that he was drowning, that horrible cough degenerated
into snoring in rattle, and suddenly we heard meowing, screaming horribly in all imaginable dissonances,
a large number of cats. I could have sworn that there was a hundred of these animals around
us. Let it out into the corridor with security phosphorescent eyes to see the shadows of the
arcade, but nothing was visible. Tightened the horrible confusion, I heard something was falling,
and looking back, I saw Paulino kneeling knees in the middle of the room, arms crossed, and
drawn in the greatest terror his face, exclaimed in awe:

- Jesus!

The old master, old master!

There are events in life, when you remember last year, and with serene mind only have a look
laughable. But I never forget that night, hearing the death rattle of an Invisible Man, the horrible
one hundred cats meowing and accents of terror of a poor Indian blood froze in my veins, erizáronse
my hair, shook my body, and - I confess -!

I was afraid!

I left the room abruptly, followed by Paul, and stumbling with scaffolding
and boats painting, we went to to the bedroom where Antonio slept
alone.

- Antonio, by God!

I cried. This place is haunted!

- What? What happens?

But, man, "said Antonio, lighting the candle and see the expression
our faces.

What do you have? Are you crazy?

- A little less, I assure you.

And I told him hastily what we had just heard.

- Come on, man! No way!

You are dreaming.

Here we go, and you will see nothing.

- No! Do not go!

- Yes, he
said resolutely, and we set off he go.

To get to my bedroom and enter it, there was total silence.

- See? said my friend. But at that moment broke again and Paulino horrible meow could only
exclaim, in a tone of terror:

- Boy, is the old master!

- Come,
come here!

And leave that dreadful room.

The rest of the night Antonio and I passed without a word, in separate
seats of room, smoking cigarettes and seized our minds a thousand
guesses, until the open window we saw the stars fade and draw the
clear sky the long-awaited dawn.

As should be expected, with the light of day increased my desire to clarify the strange event,
and harassment to my friend a thousand questions, which he excused himself to answer, saying
everything was a mystery to him. But despite this, I realized that I knew something did not want
to communicate, and therefore I urged him that, at last, a dilapidated Manager required keys,
and said laconically:

- Me.

We went through the entire corridor, smiling with the morning light and the scent of the plants there
had, went down stairs, traveled corridors, and finally, Antonio opened a small door that, by turning
on its hinges, blew out a strong smell of old paper and chamois. Immediately I realized it was
the file of the house. In fact, he found himself filled that dome camera bundles, folios and
books stacked on several shelves and carefully arranged, as could be gathered by clear numbers
and signs each bore. He paused a moment, and toured with the view
that ancient array of paper and parchment.

He extended his arm and fell your site is not a bundle of large,
carefully untied it and reviewed records containing up to an edict
of the Inquisition, written in Genoa and tough role header with the
usual formula of "We the Inquisitors of the Faith against the heretical
bravedad etc.. "

It took me some time to decipher its contents, taking in conclusion
that the August 15 the year of 1614, was denounced as a witch, before
the Holy Office of the Inquisition, the Lord Goya Joaquin de Herrera,
owner of "Hacienda de Grind sugar San Francisco Xavier, Bishopric
of Puebla de los Angeles.

" The court feared that quoted Mr. to appear before him, a horrible
position, and, if found guilty, suffer the consequent penalty.

-
What would Mal Herrera Goya in the Inquisition!

I exclaimed, to finish reading the document.

- It appeared, said Antonio. The day I received this edict, died.

- What! How?

- I think it died of old age - he was eighty years - or the shock
of being in such a hurry trance, but I'll tell you, as all want to
know, that some say that her death was tragic.

This Herrera Goya, it seems, was a rare entity, especially for its time. Used to experiment
with weed, insect collecting, and was up half a hundred cats who followed him everywhere.

Do not fail to cause unpleasant surprise this point, which immediately acquainted with the mystery
we wanted to clarify.

- I understand your shock, "continued Antonio. And you should know that according to tradition
among the people of this estate, Herrera Goya - Old Master, as they call it - greatly abused
his strange entourage, nay, tormented at every moment.

And say when he died was because all the cats jumped him, digging her nails into his neck and
tearing throat in rags, almost, after suffering horrible, lifeless in a pool of his own blood.

Refirióme
then how the Holy Office of the Inquisition forbade Herrera bury in a sacred place and how the
bloody corpse was buried in the garden, where he scored his bury what I had mistaken for a seat.

On the afternoon of that day we returned to Mexico and all the way,
I could not distract from my mind the incident that had impressed
me so much.

Upon reaching the city, sent say masses for the soul of this "old
master", who was denied Christian burial, but found it poetry, sheltered
by mangrove and palms, near the spout of the "Garden of the Sultana."

It was a few months. One day I said to Antonio:

- You know I've written to San Javier, which this year ordered Herrera
Goya painted black?

- Man, do not do that!

Take care.

- Hello!

       Are you superstitious?

Three days later, the society of Mexico was dismayed to learn that the rebel hordes had entered
the bag in the main hacienda of Sandoval Hernández, who had set heat to ingenuity, and blown
up with dynamite the old building.

San Javier, and it was just a huge pile of rubble.

THE CHEST

JESUS ??REYES FERREIRA

The flickering flames, the fire in the fireplace gave off, did a fantastic range, on the walls
of the room, the shadow of the old Don Alejandro.

He huddled in a chair wide near the home, tried to warm your body, numb, not so much by bad weather
at that time was, the punishment for years and weighed about him. But despite its proximity
to the fire, felt cold.

Many nights spent long hours in the same spot, staring at the red light! Sometimes the forms assumed
burning logs bartered his imagination in people and happenings real,
and so became that home on stage, in which often represented the grim
drama of his life.

The first act, as it was of little interest. After his early years, after next to his mother
saw his college life, sad life and no friends, so much influenced his character, making sullen
and withdrawn.

The second act began with a frightening picture. On the bed lay his mother's death, the it only being
loved, and next, standing contemplábala a severe man, almost revolting: his father.

Sucedíanse other acts of the drama with fidelity. Don Alejandro ran major capitals of the world
in search of distraction, but all fled from him, be like a infectious, thus embittered his character
more and more. When returning home, he found his father was dying. Without feeling any pain,
saw how they turned out the existence of the author of his life. The doctor indicated that no further
action ... Came the priest, but the dying stating he could only with great difficulty, the words:

-
The chest ...!

The room that was Don Alejandro kept many works of art and antiques.

Among them, in a corner of the room was a large iron chest, covered almost in its entirety, with
brass nails and rivets. This was, without doubt, the casket which the dying man had intended
to, but the key had been found and the secret if it was secret, has been ignored.

For the thousandth time, Don Alejandro glanced towards the corner of the room, and trembled to
see that the hood was open. The heavy lid resting against the wall, revealing the ancient and complicated
mechanism of a lock.

The old long remained without power away from that place the frightened eyes. For end, making
a supreme effort, he left his seat next to the fireplace, and a sense
of terror, he went to the chest.

At first he could see nothing inside, but few moments later saw a
yellow rectangle lying on the bottom.

Hincóse knees and with trembling hands removed the object. It was an envelope, stained over
time, no sign of any kind.

Formidable sudden noise made him turn his head, frightened, and saw that the cover trunk had
fallen into place, closing it again.

He returned to the home side to read the contents of the envelope, but their hands were so trembling,
unable to verify. After a few moments, he managed to win on peace, opened the cover and with
eyes of terror, extracted the statement contained therein. But head was spinning and had to rely
on the chair to keep from falling to the ground. Set of New eyes on the hearth, and saw clearly
the dreadful scene of his death mother. Stunned, looked the old man around furtively, afraid
of being observed, and decided make an effort to read the statement, but the paper ran away from
his trembling hands and fell the flames that consumed it voraciously.

Don Alejandro looked toward the corner where there was a closed casket and even closer to chimney,
but, despite its proximity to the fire was cold.

IMAGO Tristis

Talked, my friend and I, of indifferent and trivial.

The sun about to disappear, cast light upon the earth warm and reddish, and the heat coming
through the open window seemed to spread throughout the room. The columns of smoke from our
cigarettes light rose up together in clouds that were nesting in
the coffered wooden ceiling, and damask that covered the walls took
on a richer tint than usual.

The conversation began to languish, and there came a time when both were silent, as if they obey
some mysterious command.

I had some pride in that room, that putting together he possessed
more courage and deep affection, and was not the first time since
my chair looked all over the furniture and paintings that adorned.

Rafael also liked that collection and often praised, so I was not surprised to see it go to
the hearing this motley collection of objects.

Across from where we sat, hung the wall a portrait bust of my mother,
dressed in the fashion of the Second Empire.

Despite light which at times grew fainter, the portrait stood out
very well, and was accentuated on his face the ineffable sweetness
that the painter had managed to faithfully reproduce.

I do not know how long silent. Suddenly I felt a rush of melancholy as and I looked at the
portrait.

I shuddered at the sight, and I noticed that my friend suffered the
same printing.

                       We looked at both, and he stands and said very softly:

- She's crying!

I

nodded, and my partner to step softly, left the room and shut the
door after him carefully.

Then I seized with great anxiety, I went and saw the portrait is encouraged. A cloud of sadness
clouded my mother's face, and tears welled in her eyes fell more abundantly. They moved her lips and
heard the voice again silenced than twenty years.

- My son! I feel great pity for you! The way you have to travel is rough and difficult, and great
suffering will be yours. That's why I feel so great pity for you. Never make anyone share in
your troubles, or your best friend always save them for you. Be stingy about your feelings, to
tell nobody. My son, how much compassion I feel for you!

The shadows of the night broke almost immediately and soon I was wrapped in thick darkness.

Finally, after a short time is not turned on the light and opened the door. Rafael was in the gallery,
in the hollow of a window, and to me, seemed to wake from a dream.

- Rafael ...! I cried, but he interrupted me, saying:

- Do not tell me no, no, not me I'm your best friend!

And silently enter the room again. With artificial light, all things presented its usual appearance,
and the portrait of my mother Inaf sweetness of her face. Below him, on a table, was my last sonnet,
I took to read it to Rafael, and I found it was wet and smudged.

CHESS PLAYERS
A ROBERTO MONTENEGRO.

I

Anxieties, india tarasca purebred, was
a teacher in the difficult art of caring and entertaining children.
For several years he served in my family, lavishing his care, in turn,
five brothers were. If our house was visited by an illness, Angus
was always at the bedside, and when it came to wipe away tears, the
result some prank of boys, the kind word soon gave us comfort. But
the science of caring nanny was more apparent when we were happy.
Inventing games new, truly bizarre gestures, thanks to all classical
features, or storytelling never imagined, made us very pleasant and
the evening hours, arrival time, could drive gently into the world
of dreams. Another special gift of Sorrows was the prompt response
that led to the many pilgrims who used to ask questions the little
people. Such was the spontaneity of the response and so great aplomb
with which the did, never put into question by her proposed solution
to any problem that was presented to our children's brains.

The memories
of my childhood are closely linked to the Hacienda de San Isidro Labrador
where he resided most of the year. The farm, near Mexico City, was
owned of the Society of Jesus from the earliest times of the Colony,
and when the famous religious were expelled from Spanish dominions,
for the reasons that Charles III had see fit to "in real breast,"
was purchased by my ancestor. Understandably, then, the house of the
Hacienda had more character monastery farm field, and my father following
the example of their elders, always wanted to retain the austere aspect
which initially had. The rooms, all vaulted and very high; the endless
cloisters with semicircular arches, the walls, thick as a medieval
castle, and mainly fast throughout the region of natural wonders -
they bore, as the only galas, large maguey and one or eucalyptus in
the middle of fields of maize and barley - were of the Treasury San
Isidro Labrador a place that many repugnant, but others, in contrast,
attracted by their very nakedness and severity