 

The same freedom that had been raised, and the constant physical exercise, and in useful tasks, and
in games as a boy as a child, Juanita had made, though he had the holy ignorance or had lived
with the recollection that recommend and seek other mothers jealous I had not thought of yet in
matters of love. Was sought, and requested not to woo a few young men, but brave and surly, he
knew lay s, command respect and hold off the more daring.

Only one was known from childhood tilt persisted in it with constancy, but this inclination,
at least for his part, rather than affection had traces of brotherly love affection. Who inspired,
no doubt sharing less innocent style, was Antonuelo, master blacksmith's son and nephew of the
chief, who had in place very humble parentage.

Antonuelo was a gentle and robust fine fellow, very nice, but short-sighted and determined for
all, and particularly to admire Juanita, whom he regarded and respected
by subjecting it all his will and by virtue of fascination or spells.

VI

Don Paco given its constant and different tasks, not or had not planned to marry a second time,
but never had an affair, or at least, if one had had had been so wonderful with caution, no
one had heard of it in Villalegre, what which is an extraordinary implausibility, because at that place
had just person, and less even if it was of such importance and sheen as Don Paco, I could
do or say anything not knowing. Even the thoughts guessed there were disseminated and commented,
as the thinker does not think very openly and very inward.

We therefore believe that Don Paco had not had affairs, not to be very fleeting and lightweight,
and that even during her long widowhood, had thought such a thing.

He, however, remarkable fitness and skill to know and admire female beauty, and made months now,
almost without noticing it, and very unwillingly, when I was chatting
with the clerk and the pharmacist and other gentlemen on the benches
that were near the fountain, were fixed with loving eyes delight in
Juanita, still used to come to fill their jar and be there chatting
with other girls as they took their turn.

Undoubtedly, Don Paco had begun to feel inclined to live Juanita,
it was difficult to master, but he spent considerable time without
outward sign that the felt, longing perhaps hide from himself for
reasons he was given.

Founded in the very modesty that made him into a poor idea of ??his person, was that fifty-three
years, thirty-six more than Juanita, could no longer love to girl, who or scorn their affection
or interest only move to correspond. Thought after Juanita, although in apparent freedom, was heavily
guarded by his mother, and mother and daughter lived with some relief,
it was assumed that, if he had intentions sinful loaning them, but
in any case would give in facie Ecclesiae and bringing the priest
to go.

The idea of ??marriage to Don Paco terrified, and absolutely not because he hated being married
but because her daughter, Dona Ines, inspired him with an endearing affection, mingled with
terror, and because she was so compelling and brave, and would certainly be in a fury of the
underworld if his father give him stepmother, especially so mean position, and if seven grandchildren
she had given him, and I figured I could come yet she persisted in production approach, removing
the hope of inheriting the vineyard, olive grove and the house, and enjoy in his lifetime
not a little of what he was farm with his various arts.

Trembling Don Paco incurring the anger of her daughter, and although it mainly trembling anger, fear
did not stop their evil consequences.

Well he knew that there was no place in a person, or several together, they could replace him
successful in different jobs, but the world was not barren or devoid
of statesmen rustic, which could be sought and brought in from off-site
so that it will replace.

And it also knew that her daughter was a point less than omnipotent, because he had subjugated
two powers, temporal and spiritual.
Father Anselm was a saint and a doctor, and all it said was for him
could not help it, a legitimate corollary of the Gospels and the Epistles.
The father Anselmo would be able to excommunicate whom she commanded