 If only I had the stature of its Brother
John! But this, which very well could have fallen behind, was well accommodated in the sanctuary among
the priests, the mayor and several councilors, which stood in heart a wave of envy you even
more stifling than the knees of giants behind him. Such was his fate. Although considered more
intelligent than his brother, and serve long years of public administration in various provinces
of Spain, and had read the César Cantú Universal History of Spain and Lafuente, without missing
a volume, and possessed the same fortune, retirement more than 2,500 pesetas a year, it is certain
that D. John, without Peñascosa never left or have read in the newspaper life to which he
subscribed, enjoyed far greater prestige in the village. This, by way of D. Peregrin, but not appropriate
for height. Indeed, D. Juan Casanova was tall, dry, aquiline face, large eyes drooping eyelids
and look imposing, venerable bald, short white whiskers and a measured and stately march. These
extraordinary gifts, together talk to a measured and prudent, had captured the respect and even
the veneration of neighbors. So great was the astonishment of their time to the arrival of D.
Peregrin de Andalucía, where he had been employed recently heard him call ignorant and fool
his brother in a discussion with him at the casino was about the tobacco revenue. They lived together,
both single and delivered to the care of Ms Mariquita despotic, housekeeper and sole owner
of their lives and property.

D. Juan, by dint of walking her stern look and majestic on the sea
of ??heads that stretched from the fence to the gate of the temple,
met with the shiny bald head of the pygmy brother.

Seeing the anguish painted on his face, he hastened to signal nobly to advance, giving the bank
site occupied. But D. Peregrin, perchance noting the impossibility of taking a step, or flushed
with anger, which had been increasing little by little, he replied with a grimace of anger
and contempt that overtook his unfortunate brother completely took away the desire to insist.

-
What is that? - Asked D. Martín de las Casas, who was sitting next to him .-- Do not you want D.
come Peregrin?

- Is that it is impossible. Who breaks the wall of flesh?

- For anyone.

You see how I go there and bring it at once - said D. Martin, Male vigorous and expeditious nature,
ready to rise.

D. John is retained by the sleeve of his coat.

- No, let you ... Did not want to come ... You know his character.

-
For man is not like dish could you be there sweating latte! - Answered
sharply, while raising the shoulders.

The church is among the most spacious villa can be rendered. Truth Peñascosa with have seven to
eight thousand souls, no church has more than this. Perhaps to be too spacious, the sexton and
his assistants do not want to take care of cleaning often. Its appearance is murky and dirty.
On the walls, not many years ago whitewashed, hanging chains, dark, blurry pictures, a crowd of
legs, arms, heads and yellow wax still greater ones of boats and barges that the faith of the
sailors or their families have been there in memory of danger miraculously avoided. But for the function
to be held habíanla adorned as they could. Flower garlands surrounded the main altar covered
with white cloths pressed from fresh. They had hung some curtains in wall paintings near the altar
and some soil upholstered with carpet, dirty and and torn in several places, which came to light
forty years, in the solemn days. Ms Eloise, the godmother of the new priest, and the ladies
who had assisted in the noble endeavor to give race, have added some details to trim crude and sensitive
routine the sexton. Big pots of flowers placed in vases art drawn from the best town houses, some
damask curtains forming canopy over the altar, candlesticks, spiders. Where, of course, had fallen
to their particular attention and care was in rounding up young priest. Alba fine cambric embroidered
with neatness, stole, chasuble richest cloth of gold that could be found in the capital, cup,
gold too, with some stones precious. The kind lady had spared no money to give top or crown the
charity for some years to accomplish.