 

Some algebraist, caste people are very useful to the public, to take this step in my story
pen, and calculated that taking the Lord Don Micromegas, Sirius country dweller, from soles
to occiput twenty-four thousand feet, making one hundred and twenty thousand feet King, and we
citizens of the land going through the community of five feet, and taking our globe nine thousand
miles in circumference, it is absolutely essential that the planet where our national hero has
fully twenty-one million six hundred thousand times circumference of our earth. Well, nothing
is more common and more natural, and states certain princelings of Germany or Italy, which
may beating in half an hour, compared with Turkey, Russia, or Spanish America, is an image, still
very distant from Indeed, the differences that nature has established among men.

It is the height of His Excellency that we said, where all our painters colegiran and sculptors, whose
body might be about fifty thousand feet in circumference king because is very well proportioned.
His understanding of the most insightful is that you can see he knows a multitude of things,
and some have invented: only bordered with the two hundred and fifty years, while a student
at the Jesuit college of your planet, as there style is common, I guess by the force of his
intelligence over fifty propositions of Euclid, which are eighteen but did Blaise Pascal, the
qual having guessed, according to her sister, thirty and two playing, became, walking the years,
fed medium geometry, and malisimo metaphysical. Age of four hundred and fifty years, but not
to get out of childhood, dissects a very small insects that did not reach a hundred feet in diameter,
and the microscopes were hiding regular, and wrote a book about them very funny, but that he brought
not a few surprises. The mufti of his country, not less ticklish than ignorant, found in his book
proposals suspicious, ill-sounding, rash, heretical, or smelling of heresy, and he chased the
death, then tried to see if the substantial form of fleas from Sirius was of the same nature
that of the snails. Micromegas Defendiose salty, declared the women in their favor, because after two
hundred and twenty years which had lasted the lawsuit, did Mufti condemn the book for qualifiers
that he had not read nor could read, and was banished court time the author for eight years.

Not
much afflicted him out of a court full of intrigue and gossip. He composed a few tenths very funny
against the mufti, that this does not give a damn, and devoted himself
to travel planet to planet, only to perfect his reason and his heart,
as they say.

Those who are used to walking in car cufflinks, or chaise was amazed at the carriages up there,
because we, in our ball of mud, do not understand other styles than ours. Fully knew the laws
of gravitation and the forces attractive and repulsive our walker, and he used them so well
that now mounted in a sunbeam, now riding a kite, balloon balloon went he and his servants,
as well as a paxarillo flits from branch to branch. Soon there run the Milky Way; and I regret
to confess that never could descry, among the stars that is planted, that beautiful sky empyrean,
who with his spyglass discovered the illustrious Derham, curate [Footnote: English Wise, author of
Theology astronomical, and other works, who strives to prove the existence of God by the contemplation
of the wonders of nature.]. I do not say why that has not been very well Mr Derham, God forbid
size of committing mistake, but after Micromegas was in the country, and was a good observer: I do
not want to contradict anyone.

After many journeys came a day Micromegas the globe of Saturn, and although he was used to see
new things, yet we stop confusing the smallness of this planet and its inhabitants, and could
not release the smile of superiority that can not contain more sane sometimes. Truth is that
Saturn is nine hundred times larger than the earth, and the inhabitants
the country are dwarfs of about two thousand yards, with a short difference
in height.

Riose to top of them with their servants, as does an Italian musician Lulli's music, when it comes
to France, but Sirius was the man of reason, and quickly recognized that one could very well
be that thought to have nothing of ridiculous, since there from six thousand feet height. Acostumbrose
to Saturninus, after having been shocked, and became a close friend of the secretary of the Academy
of Saturn, a man of great talent, which in truth nothing was invented, but very nicely gave account
of the inventions of others, and to regularly couplets girls and big load. I'll post here,
to the satisfaction of my readers, a conversation very surprised that the secretary had one day
Mr. Micromegas.

CHAPTER II.

Sirius Talk to the inhabitants of Saturn.

HE went to bed, went up to his face to the secretary, and said Micromegas:
We confess that is very diverse nature.

Truth is, he said the Saturnino; is nature as a garden, whose flowers
.... Ha, he said the other, DEXA gardening.

As it is, followed the Secretary, as a reunion of blonde and brunette, whose adornments .....
What do I care about your brunette? interrupted the other. Or as a gallery of squares, whose
images ...... No, Sir, no, replied the traveler, nature is as nature. ? A what the hell you walk
looking for those comparisons? For to rejoice, 'said the secretary. If I do not want to recreate
me, what I want you to teach, "said the traveler. Tell me what senses are first quantos men
of your globe. Nothing more than seventy-two, he said the academic and everyday We complain about
such a shortage, that our imagination is dexa back our needs, and we believe that with our seventy-two
senses, our annulled, and our five moons do not have enough, and it is true that despite our
great curiosity and passion that of our seventy-two senses are daughters, we have plenty of time
to get bored. Well what I think, he said Micromegas, because on our globe we have about a thousand
ways, and we still are not that vague desires, not that concern, which constantly tells us that
we are girl thing, and that other beings much more perfect. I made a few voyages, and have seen
other very inferior to us mortals, and others who are far superior, but I have seen no with
no more desires than real needs, and more needs satisfaction. Perhaps a day will END a country
where nothing is needed, but I have not been told of this country. Then threw themselves to
form conjectures on Saturnino and Sirius, but after many no less ingenious reasoning uncertain,
was forced to re-establish facts. ? Quanto long live? he said the Syrian. Ha, very little, "replied
the man from Saturn. The same is true in our country, 'said the Syrian, we are always complaining
about the shortness of life. Must is that it is universal pension of nature. Alas! our lives,
'said the Saturnino is five hundred revolutions of the sun movie (coming to be fifteen thousand
years, or near, counting as us.) You see that it is almost die so that one is born: it is
our existence one point, a moment our lives, our globe an atom, and each instruction is just
beginning something, when death snatches before experience. As for me I dare not any draft form,
and I am like a drop of water in the vast ocean, and what more sonroxo cause me in your presence,
quan look ridiculous in this figure do world. Micromegas answered her: If you were not a philosopher,
would have, the apprehension of desconsolaros, telling that is our life seven hundred times more
extensive than yours, but you well know that when has been to restore the body to the elements,
and revive differently Baxo nature that is what you call die, Quando is reached, say, this
moment of metamorphosis, it matters little have lived forever or one day alone, two is the
same. I have been in countries where people live a thousand times more than mine, and I saw
that still complained, but are everywhere sugetos of reason, who can resign, and give thanks to the
author of nature, which with a wonderful kind of uniformity has spread in the universe varieties
with an endless profusion. So par example, all people who think they are different, and they
all look in the gift of thinking and desire. Everywhere is the matter extensive, but each has different
properties globe. ? Qantas of these properties have your area? If you speak of the properties
without the quale we could not survive our globe as he is, he said the Saturnino, do not exceed
three hundred, to wit the extension, impenetrability, mobililad, gravity, divisibility, etc..
Without doubt, replied the walker, which is sufficient for such a short number of breeder plan your
intimate room, and in all things I love his wisdom, because if all I see differences, also
provides in all proportions. Your globe is small, and so are its inhabitants, you have few
feelings, and your subject has a few properties: this is the disposal of Providence. ? Color
is your sun well tested? Very ashen white, 'said the Saturnino, and when we divide one of its
rays, we find that has seven colors. The strip our flesh, he said the Syrian, and we thirty-nine primary
colors. In all quanta have examined, I have not found a sun that looks like another, and not
on your planet is a face that no differs from all others.

After many queestiones analog, was reported to be different substances quantas Saturn knew,
and was answered that he had until about thirty, God, space, matter, people who feel large, extensive
beings who feel and think, people they think and are not widespread, which penetrate, and not
penetrate, and so on. The Sirius world in which there are three hundred, and that he had discovered
in his travels up to three thousand, I leave necessarily extraordinary philosopher stunned
to Saturn. Finally, having communicated a quanto another almost all knew and did not know many
things, and having discoursed for space of an entire solar revolution,
were determined to make a short journey together philosophical.

CHAPTER III.

Journey of two people from Sirius and Saturn

They were to board our two walkers in the atmosphere of Saturn with a very decent provision of
mathematical instruments, when the lady of Saturninus, who knew,
it came to make bitter complaints.

This was a very graceful brunette, who had no more than fifteen hundred
feet high, but repaired with the boy through his body. iha cruel!
exclaimed, I've resisted after fifteen hundred years, when I had just
given up, having no above last hundred years in your arms, go ime
abandoned by traveling with a giant another world!

Come on, you're not more than a curious, and have never been in love,
that if you were Saturnino legitimate, most constant serious.

Where are you going? ? You want? less wandering is that you our five moons, and less changeable
our annulled. This is just, I want anymore. Philosopher embraced her, weeping with her, as philosopher,
and the lady, after having fainted, went to console with a dude.

They cut our two curious and jumped first to nullify they found very flattened as you guessed a
famous inhabitant of our globule, and from there they went to moon in moon. A comet passing
close to the last, and threw him with his servants and instruments. Just had walked a hundred
and fifty million miles, they encountered satellites Jupiter. Alighted on this planet, where
they stopped a year, and learned very secret curious, which would have given to the press, had
it not been for the inquisitors propositions have found something hard to swallow, but I managed to
read the manuscript the library of the Most Illustrious Archbishop
of ... allowed me to register their books, with all the generosity
and kindness that characterize such an illustrious prelate.

Let us return however to our walkers. Leaving Jupiter, passed through a space of about a hundred million
miles, and cost the planet Mars, the qual, as everyone knows, is five times smaller than our
globule, and they saw two moons that serve this planet, and have not our astronomers have discovered.
While the abbot was written in much Donayre Ximenez against the existence of these moons, but
I appeal to those run by analogy, all great philosophers who know very well that it will be
possible to live without two moons Mars at least, being so far from the sun. Anyway, they
seemed to our travelers thing girl, who feared not finding a comfortable
inn, and went forward as do two Quando walkers encounter poor sales
in the wilderness, and continue to the next village.

But then he repented the Syrian and his partner, who walked a long period without finding hostel.
After a little light descry, which was the land, which seemed very mean thing to people who had
come from Jupiter. However, rezelando repent again, were determined to land on it. They went
into the comet's tail, and finding an aurora borealis by hand, went inside and brought ashore
to the north shore of the Baltic Sea, five of July 1737.

CHAPTER IV.

That accounts of what happened on the globe of the earth.

Having rested a bit, had lunch two mountains that are then cooked his servants with much toilet.
Wanted to recognize the wretched country then where they were, and headed north to south. Each step
ordinary Sirius and his family was about thirty thousand feet of the king, followed him by far
the dwarf of Saturn, who lost his breath, because I had to take twelve steps while the other
leg stretched out, almost like a lapdog that is, if you will excuse
the comparison, a captain of the guards of the king of Prussia.

As they went in a hurry these foreigners, were seen around the globe in thirty-six hours: truth
is that the sun, or rather the earth, makes the same journey in one day, but we to repair something
that is easier to turn on its exe to anchor foot.