 Remembered
not worth the destruction of the castle. I felt an irresistible when their hobbies laziness
tried to push, as in other times, purchases constant. No, maybe he was there ... And there was
always the study of July.

Argensola worked in the presence of Don Marcelo. I knew that old people abhorred inactive, and
had undertaken several works, feeling the contagion of this angle will to the action. Desnoyers noted
with interest the brush strokes and accepted all the explanations the portrait of souls. He was
in favor of the ancients in their shop, had only acquired works by dead artists, but it was enough
to know that Jules thought as his friend, to support humbly all theories
of it.

The artist's hard work was another. A few minutes later he preferred to speak with the old, sitting
on the same couch.

The first topic of conversation was absent. Repeated fragments of the letters had received, talked
about the past with subtle allusions. The painter depicted the life of Julius before the war as a
life dedicated entirely to the concerns of art.

The father was aware of the inaccuracy of such words, but appreciated as a big lie token of friendship.
Argensola was a good companion, discreet, never to abandon its greatest verbal, had alluded
to Madame Laurier.

In those days, worried about the old memories of it. Had met in the street giving his arm to her
husband, who was now recovered from his wounds. The illustrious Lacour had happy marriage reconciliation.
The engineer had only lost one eye.

Now was in charge of his factory requisitioned by the government for making bombs. Was captain
and wore two medals. Senator certainly did not know how it was done an unexpected reconciliation.
I had seen them arrive a day to his home together, looking with tenderness,
completely forgotten the past.

- Who remembers things before the
war? - Had said the character -.

They and his friends have forgotten all about the divorce. We all live a new life ... I think the two
are now happier than before.

This happiness I had sensed Desnoyers to see them. And the man of strong moral values, which
anathematized the year before your child's behavior with Laurier,
holding for the most harmful of the skulls, felt some vexation at
the sight Marguerite glued to her husband, speaking with love interest.

It seemed an act of ingratitude is happiness in marriage. A woman who had influenced both in the
life of Julio! ... So you can forget the love? ...

The two had gone as if he knew. Perhaps the captain was not clear Laurier; but she had looked
at her candid eyes, looking back abruptly to avoid your greeting
... The old man grieved at such indifference, not by him but on the
other.

Poor Julio! ... The inflexible sir, full mental immorality, lamented this oversight as something
monstrous.

The war was another subject of conversation during the evenings spent in the study. Argensola no
longer had his pockets full of paper, as at the beginning of hostilities. A quiet and serene
resignation had happened to the excitement the first time, when people
extraordinary and wonderful interventions expected.

All the newspapers said the same. He had only to read the official statement, and this document wise
to wait without impatience, feeling that, more or less say the same as above.

The fever of the first months with their hopes and optimism, now seemed somewhat unrealistic. Those who
were not in the war had gradually become habitual occupations. The existence resumed its regular
pace. "We must live," people said. And the need to continue thinking life filled with immediate
demands. Those with individuals The army armed remembered them, but their occupations muffled violence
of memory, running to accept the absence, as something that was going to be special normal. At first,
the war cut the dream, the food was inedible, bitter pleasure, giving it a funereal pallor. Everyone
was talking about the same. Now, slowly opened the theater circulating money, people laughed,
talked about the great calamity, but only to certain hours, as something
that was going to be long, lengthy, and demanding with inevitable
fatalism great resignation.

- Humankind can easily get used to misfortune
- Argensola said - as long as misfortune is long ... That is our strength,
which is why we live.

Don Marcelo would not accept his resignation. The war was going to be shorter than you imagined
all. His enthusiasm will immediately set a term: within three months in the spring next. And
if peace was not in the spring, would be in the summer.

A new participant took part in conversations. Desnoyers knew the neighboring Russian, Argensola
speaking to him.

Also this weird character had treated his son, and this was enough Tchernoff inspire you to
great interest.

In normal times, he was kept at a distance. The millionaire was in favor of order. Detested the
revolutionaries, with the instinctive fear of all the rich who have created his fortune and remember
the modesty of its origins. Tchernoff socialism and nationality would have necessarily resulted in
his mind a series of horrifying images, pumps, stabbing, just by hanging atonement, sent to Siberia.
No, it was a friend recommended ... But now Don Marcelo felt a profound disorder in the appreciation
of others' ideas. He had seen so much! ... The procedures terrifying invasion, lack of scruples
German heads, the ease with which the ships sunk submarines peaceful cast full of helpless passengers,
the exploits of the airmen, that two thousand feet throwing bombs on open towns, destroying women
and children, made him remember as unimportant events of revolutionary
terrorism attacks that caused years before outrage.

- And to think
- he said - that we are angry, as if the world were to fall apart,
because someone threw a bomb at a character!

These exalted offered to him a quality that dimmed his crimes. Victims died their own acts or
gave themselves knowing what would be his punishment. Sacrificed without seeking Output: rarely
had saved using the precautions of impunity. While The terrorist war! ...

With the violence of its urgent nature, the old effected a complete reversal of values.

- The real anarchists are now at the top - he said with an ironic laugh -. All that We were frightened
by some unhappy ... In a second killing the most innocent of our
time the other in thirty years.

The sweetness of Tchernoff, original ideas, and inconsistencies of thinker accustomed to reflection
jump to the word without any preparation, eventually seduce Don Marcelo. All doubts of consulting
with him. His admiration made him overlook the provenance of certain
bottles that sometimes Argensola regaled his neighbor.

Gladly accepted Tchernoff that consume these memories of the time when he lived fighting with your
child.

After tasting the wine of the avenue Victor Hugo, was a loquacious visionary Russian similar to that
of the night raised the fantastic ride of the four apocalyptic horsemen.

What I admired most was the ease Desnoyers putting things, fixing them through image. The Battle
of the Marne to the fighting that followed, and the race of both armies towards the sea were to
him made easy explanation ... If the French had not been tired after his triumph at the Marne!
...

--... But human forces - continued Tchernoff - are limited, and French, with all enthusiasm, is a
man like others. First, very rapid progress in the North East to deal with the invasion of
Belgium and then the fighting, and then withdrawal fast to avoid being enveloped, and finally
a battle of seven days and all this in a period just three weeks ... In the moment of triumph to
the victors legs were missing for go ahead and cavalry failed to
pursue the fugitives.

The beasts were more exhausted even men. To be harassed with little tenacity, which retreated,
falling fatigue, lay down and dug the earth, creating a shelter. The French also went to bed,
scratching the ground to keep the recovered ... And thus began the
war trenches.

Then, every line, in an attempt to envelop the enemy line had been
extending towards North West, and successive stretching was the race
to the sea each other, forming the largest battlefront was known in
history.

When Don Marcelo, in his enthusiastic optimism, announcing the termination of war next spring ... for
the summer, always within four months at the most, Russian shook his head.

- This will be long ... long. It's a new war, the true modern war. The Germans initiated hostilities
to the old style, as if they had not seen anything after 1870: outflanking war, battles in the open,
as he could devise Moltke imitating Napoleon. Wished to end soon and they were sure of victory.
What make use of new procedures? ... But what of the Marne twisted his plans were aggressors
to go on the defensive, and then used all that his staff had learned in Japanese and Russian campaigns,
beginning of trench warfare, the fight underground that is logical,
for the scope and quantity of fire of modern weapons.

The conquest a mile of land now accounts for more than a century
ago the assault of a fortress stone ... Neither are going to move
in a long time.

Maybe not ever move permanently.

This is going to be long and boring, like fights between athletes of balanced forces.

- But have you ever have an end - said Desnoyers.

- Certainly, but who knows when? ... And how will each other when it's over? ...

He believed in a quick end when people least expect it, with the fatigue
of one of the two wrestlers, carefully concealed until the last minute.

-
Germany will be defeated - he said with firm conviction -.

I do not know when or how, but fall logically. His coup failed him in September, not undoing to
enter Paris enemy.

All wins from their deck then threw them on the table. She did not win and continues to prolong
the game because it has many letters, and extend long time yet ... But what we could do at first,
never will.

To Tchernoff final defeat did not mean the destruction of Germany or the annihilation the German
people.

- Me, I am outraged - continued - the excessive patriotism. Listening to some people who made
plans for the final elimination of Germany, I seem to be listening to the Pangerman Berlin when
the continents divided.

Then clarified its opinion.

- We must defeat the Empire, for the peace of the world: eliminate the vast war machine which disturbs
the peace of nations ... Since 1870 all live badly.

For forty and four years have averted the danger, but in all this time which of anguish! ...

What
most irritated Tchernoff was born immoral teaching of this situation and had ended up taking
over the world: the glorification of force, the sanctification of success the triumph of materialism,
respect for the fait accompli, the mockery of the noblest sentiments, as if they were simple and
ridiculous sound bites, the disruption of moral values, a philosophy of bandits pretending
to be the last word of progress and was not more than back to despotism, violence, barbarism
of earlier epochs of history.

He wanted the removal of the representatives of this trend, but not this called for the extermination
the German people.

- This town has great merits confused with poor conditions, which are inherited from a barbaric
past too close. Has the instinct of the organization and work, and can provide good service
to humanity ... However, prior to administering a Shower: Shower failure. The Germans are mad
with pride, and his madness is dangerous for the world. When they are gone poisoned with illusions
of hegemony world when misfortune has cooled their imagination and be content with being a group
Human neither superior nor inferior to others, form a tolerant people, useful ... and who knows
if even sympathetic.

There was at the present time to Tchernoff most dangerous people.

His political organization made it an educated warrior horde kicked and subjected to continuous humiliation
to override the will, which always refuses to discipline.

- It is a nation where all are beaten and they want to give them to the one below. The kick releasing
the emperor is transmitted back to back to the last strata.

The shock start school and continue in the barracks as part of education. Learning the Crown
Prince of Prussia was always receive slaps and sticks to his father
the king.

The Kaiser stick to their offspring, the officer to his soldiers, father to his children and
the woman, the teacher to the students, and when the top can not
shock, which imposes upon it under the torment of moral outrage.

So they left their ordinary life, taking up arms to fall into another group human, were relentless
ferocity.

- Each one of them - continued Russian - brings back under a deposit of kicks received and want
to turn giving comfort to those unfortunate people who put the war under his domination. The
village of "gentlemen" as he calls himself, wants to be ... but outside
their home.

Within it is the least known human dignity. So feel so strongly the
desire to spread throughout the world, from servant to master.

Suddenly,
Don Marcelo frequently stopped going to the studio. Now looking to
his friend Senator. A promise he had upset his quiet resignation.

The
character was sad since the heir to the glories of his family had
gone to war, breaking the protective net of recommendations that had
been wrapped.

One night, eating at home Desnoyers, said one idea
that made it shudder. "Is not would like to see his son was handling
?...» Senator authorization Headquarters for the front. Needed to
see to René. Belonged to the same corps that July; were perhaps slightly
distant places, but a car can take many detours before reach the end
of your trip.

No need to say more. Desnoyers suddenly felt a strong
desire to see his son. Wearing many months have to be content with
reading his letters and the contemplation of a photograph taken by
a comrade ...

Since then laid siege to Lacour as if one of his constituents
eager for employment