 In the Alpujarras, the country houses are thrown on a skirt to head the guise of mantle
and as the skirt is lined with yellow, and red petticoat is offer at a distance, in those rugged
mountains, an interesting aspect. Finally, women in several villages spend all kinds of black
tights, with the exception of the daughter of the sexton, who wear socks white, and also except
the unfortunates who have no socks.

* * *

Returning to the ladies of the upper classes, and especially to the aristocracy, it is apply
to foreign customs, or habits to be, as we have said about her dress: are an exact repetition
of the habits of Madrid's high society. Of consequence, their hours, their tastes, their amusements,
their manners, their views on all things not the soul, are arranged at the Paris meridian. And
against all heresy important in this delicate matter of the claim and ensure his frequent trips
to court, and a few others Bayonne .-- Needless to add that each
newly arrived from France has a sort of dictatorship for two or three
months.

For the implementation and display of these changeable rules of good taste, have the smart Granada
with many cars themselves, with two theaters, with excellent seamstresses, with baths in the
nearby sea coast, with its corresponding Board Ladies of Charity, and a Raffle delicious Foundling,
in public, in a large tent placed on the seafront Hall, during the famous festivals of Corpus Christi
is a copy shop in miniature Mohammed's paradise, with respect to the beauty of the houris
that reward good there actions of heroes. The Plaza de Toros rarely works, but when it works,
the Grenadines agree that they are Andalusian, and leave well as the national flag. (Ya know that
this flag is the white blanket.) I have also indicated that there is little Granada gatherings
that leave the orbit of the family. Hardly any recent dances times. But what happens when one
or the other, the noble daughter of the Genil gets dressed, turns, is presented, waltz, polka, speaking
and listening with such pleasure, distinction and gallantry, like that illustrious and beautiful
sitting Granada three years ago, which was then the first European
throne, chair left by the wayside now unemployed.

We have noted that the leading lady of Granada subordinate all their
habits to French fashion and now we make an exception occurs very
transcendental, which is included in the following indisputable

AXIOM

All
Grenadines peel the kettle.

Yes, sir, as the daughter of the Marquis same county or the doctor or the lawyer and the artisan
or farmer, so the doctor in love of the metropolis, as the gloomy city sedentary, and the fractious
local woman, all speak with the groom on the balcony, through the grating floor through the
roof, through the cracks of the door, the garden fence to sunlight, to the of the moon, to that
of the lamps and to any light, to the face of the pedestrians, when parents are happy, and down
at midnight, between one o'clock and dawn, when opposes the family!

This turkey is the turkey illegal par excellence, especially in winter sleep .-- All Boabdil in
the city, minus the bell sound sources Vela and courtyards. The street lights went out at twelve.
On the street just spend another couple to go or return. Stuck on a fence that almost borders
on the ground there is a ghost layer and fungus. Behind the grating
discerned a woman wrapped in an immense shawl and covered her head
and her face surrounded by that handkerchief of India have already
qualified semimonjil touches, semihebraica