 

Followed José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru in the footsteps of all tyrants, and knowing how easily drifts
the populace of appearances that he was courting, because it penetrates the mysteries of the
usurper, he began publishing edicts of extortion that he suffered unbearable the nation, the bloated
pension unfairly tolerated, the wrongs that were repeated at customs, and tight set, that
the Indians were victims of the greed of the magistrates, who sought to enrich all means, regardless of
the injustices and humiliations that originated, whose modest complaints that they often represent
their excesses, were for nothing but to incite anger and revenge, and finally it was all wrong,
tyranny and ambition, that his intent was only reduced to seek the good of the Fatherland, with
extermination of the wicked and thieves. Thus explanations this rebel, to seduce towns, swelling
the party, and going armed to the edges of their anger to those who opposed him, invaded the
provinces of Azangaro, Carabaya, Ink, Calca and Quispicanchi that degree by force or declared
their party, at whose instance followed the same course those of Chucuito Pacajes Omasuyos, Larecaja,
and part of the Yungas of Misque, Cochabamba and Atacama. As general as the uprising, or were
experienced unprecedented tragic events, whose description was necessary for blood sudase the
pen, and our characters were tears.

With the many Indians who had assembled to Tupac Amaru, and weapons
that had already been seized, decided to go on Cuzco, to take possession
of this city, and made his attempt, crown on it, as the ancient capital
of the Peruvian empire, with all the solemnities to imitate the custom
of his old powers.

Availed of this population many fugitives from the provinces immediately, which frightened of the damage
caused the tyrant, but did not think their lives for that environment, and when they were imagining
leaving the city, and it was futile trying to resist the rebel, prevented D. Manuel Villalta,
mayor Abancay, who had served in the royal army with the rank of lieutenant colonel. This game
officer, ignoring the fears, and the experience of their profession, those spirits up shot,
he picked up the militia, and ordered things so difficult to project Rebel, who contributed much to
the chiefs and Chicheros Ink, Rozas and Pumacagua, whose loyalty and the Chuquiguancas, shone like a
bright star in the middle of the black darkness of the rebellion, offering the gift of loyalty worth
sacrificing some lives of their families and all the farms they owned.

Known by the tyrant how hard it was to take the Cuzco, abandoned the effort, after some attacks,
which was rejected by its neighbors gloriously, directed and governed by Villalta, who removed
a dam hand that already had, and lost that hope, contracted to continue the raids and robberies
against the Spanish.

Declared and everywhere war, and people and campaign without resistance, they could escape the
first insults, fled to the cities and villages that were more immediate. In Cochabamba only,
parts of the Yungas (with whom valleys bordered by Ayopaya), came more 5,000 people of both sexes and
all ages, who led the mayor, D. José Albisuri. Not because the Spanish people of missing the alteration
and suspicion that offered the large vulgar, but because the risk seemed less egecutivo, although
leaflets were fixed daily and songs were heard in favor of Tupac-Amaru, against the Europeans and
the government. Agitated care Viceroys of Lima and Buenos Aires, Exmos. Gentlemen, D. Agustin
de Jauregui and D. Juan José de Vertiz, thought seriously remedy many ills.