 Come with me - he replied sharply.

And after you close and lock the door carefully, he walked forward. Do not fail to surprise the
air of authority to excuse the old home, and what little they had the will his master to receive
or not receive visits. After crossing a large courtyard, wet, poorly paved, which grew all
over the grass, surrounded by rough stone columns stained moss, rose by a rough stone staircase
and also the steps spent by the use. Saved on the main floor wide open corridor, with wooden
floors, so deteriorated that it was necessary to be careful not to put his foot through a hole.
For all hand there is a strange abandonment, the walls dirty, chipped, ground with a finger
of dust, cracked ceilings; there seemed an inhabited house, but an ancient abbey lonely. The great
manor house of Montesinos was rotting, crumbling, no owner it tried to reform the child, without
even notice it. On the second floor raised led him through several rooms at the dilapidated and
gloomy, finally opened a glass door with dirty curtains, after taking a look on the inside, said:

- He is not here. There will be uploaded to the library.

Return to retrace his steps. They found a small door in the corridor close, and she came followed
by the priest's servant, up a spiral staircase darker and dirtier even as the rest of the house.
When they went into the half, Fr Gil heard on high and hacking squeeze dry again the heart of
fear. The library was one of the two square towers that house was
on the side.

There was a small anteroom without any furniture, with unpainted
wooden door, trays in use, the old push, saying:

- Álvaro Here Mr.
excuses that wants to talk.

The shock that he had in his body did not stop surprising the weird confidence servant. A man
so rich, so noble, so mysterious, familiarly by a servant!

The library was in hand with the rest of the house in the shabby and dirty. It was a great square
tile, vaulted ceiling, the walls were covered with patches of rough shelf books. They also went
piled on the floor without any order or curiosity. The pasta was bound with old, had also very
modern rustic, but all alike were victims of neglect of the owner and the ferocity of the dust.
Two windows leaded glass, no curtains, illuminated the room. A modern stove whose pipe supported
by wires, broken glass left by the warming. Impaired by a table,
covered by a rubber ink spattered, sat in an armchair old cow a man
whose appearance and attire were well within the decor of the room