 It was red and barbipuntiagudo, with
lenses that appeared to have taken root at the top of his nose. They always called phrenologists
care by a special configuration that shone through what he exquisite smell called moral. For
science were magnificent specimen of study, a treasure for the masses were simply great. But most
of his complexion table was nervous condition suffering, it did not go two minutes without him
to do so many violent grimaces that respect only to such a high person did not die of laughter
who observed him.

Her dress was treated lesson or home economics. Describe how various cuts vests to always look
fashionable, not feathers vulgar company. Mean how neat carefully brushed every morning the
two Levites, and how deep love them liquor was at the top of the neck, taking care always
catch them with the tips of fingers is not broke, is reserved for
more specific exploit writers.

Why, and the careful review of breaks each day that passed to his two pairs of trousers, and soaks, pressings
and rubbings that racked his coat, was found innocent garment purgatory in this world? As to his hat,
just say it was a problem of longevity. Talisman is not known what had the Duke so that not an atom of
dust, not a drop of stained water never their immaculate hair. Add to this that was always a
profound mystery unchanged health Whale of an umbrella that I met him a lifetime, and what better
than the Observatory could account for all the storms that have happened in twenty years.
With regard to the gloves, which had walked in Madrid for five Aprils his emaciated yellowing
may ensure that domestic alchemy took much part in that miracle. In addition, Duke had a very special
way to put your hands, and to this, more than anything, should the life everlasting those items
that he, using one of his favorite figures, called the buskin of hands. Can form an idea of ??gait
in mind that the boots I visited three years followed, after three lifts, and only to a system of
transportation so ingenious as wise be life stages that had the who, availing ourselves of the rhetoric
of the Duke, we quirotecas call the toes.

Used jewelry, many rings, always preferring one, where an emerald the size rampant half-penny, so deformed
that seemed false, and it was indeed, as witness the most respected chroniclers of the house
of Cantarranas have written. Queen not the same uniformity of opinion, and yet are very different
versions in regard to some string that beautify his waistcoat, as though all agree that double
was there who claims to be jewelry family, and have belonged to a
baron of the house, who was viceroy of Naples, where bought a Genoese
by a thick handful of maravedises.

Ran, with hints of a very authoritative voice of the Duke of Cantarranas was a cheesy (and we
can write the palabrilla without remorse, thanks to the leniency of the Dictionary Academy), but
this only serves to prove that the shots were struck envy always
at the top, the same way that hurricanes do most damage in the corpulent
oaks.

The Duke, in turn, despised these gossip, and to meet great souls. But out came a time when
some day, because his coat had discovered astronomy vulgar do not know what spots. In this
it resembled the sun, but, strange phenomenon, was a sun looked not only at night. He frequented
several gatherings, drinking coffee, going three times year to the
theater, walking in winter and in summer the Prado in the Mountain,
and retired to his home after a chat with the watchman.

The nature of his talent inclined to contemplation. I read a lot, enjoying greatly with sentimental
novels that had much vogue forty years ago. In this, it's strength confess that I lived a bit
atrasadillo, but the big mills have this advantage over the common people, that is, may stay
where it suits them, beating the waves revolutionary, which also carries the letters. For him,
the novels of Mad. Were Genlis the prototype, and always believed that neither old nor modern Zanchetta
had come to Mad. de Staël in your Corina. He did not like much, although it's held in high
esteem, La Nouvelle Heloise, Rousseau, because he said his scholarly and philosophical pretensions
partly attenuated pure sentimental charm of the action. But what were pulled from their boxes Nights
Young, translated by Escoiquiz, and he plunged into that ocean of sadness, identifying thereby
with the character, who sometimes found him in the morning pale, exhausted and without being able to utter
words that were not dreary and bleak as a dirge. In his conversation was left to see this influence,
because the hardware used often rhetorical figures their favorite authors had been deposited in
the brain. Your favorite image was the willow between plants, and quail among vertebrates. When
he saw a fig tree, called willow, poplar were all for him cypress antojábansele pigeons and
chickens were not linnet or lark to him with the force of his imagination, not exchange in nightingale.
More than one I heard him name his servant Pamela, and I know that only stopped calling his laundress
Clarisa Sena Clara, when she said that did not like the nicknames
verifications.

Is it necessary to state that even specifically a specialty, was the Duke of Cantarranas an excellent
critic? Suffice it to say that his advice had the force of law and their opinions were so critical
that they never appealed the August court of public opinion.

For that I quoted, together with the other three characters will describe later, to appreciate
my obrilla.

This was an ill-conceived and worse novel basting, unable, therefore, of men with many that, by so
many illustrious mills produced, currently elevate points in this
lucky country.

After the four illustrious senators who were my audience were placed well in their chairs, I took
heart of grace, coughed, look around anxiously, I breathed hard, and low voice, trembling, began this
way:

"Chapter One .-- Alejo was a young pretty ugly, son of honest parents, child study of healthy
and very honest habits, poor solemnity, and good as an apple. Boxed lived in his attic, and from there
watched the sparrows who were to stand in the fireplace and cats
that frolic through the roof.

Occasionally looked at the sky, and from time to time to the earth, view, and the stars, and
cabs. Alejo was studying law, which I was very bored and had no more distracting than look out
the window of his hovel. Describe " room with this unfortunate excrescence of society? Yes,
I'm going to describe it.

"Imagine holding a four dirty walls sloping ceiling, through which water Winter slips by countless
leaks. Rags in a manner of a blue paper hanging of the walls and the bed, tucked in a corner, was
parallel to the ceiling, that is, inclined by foot. A table was not complete, held barely two
dozen great books used, an inkwell and a hat. There were two narrow consortium slippers in very
poor state, with a guitar, which had fled in haste to the four strings, leaving one, that was
accompanied by some streak Alejo knew from early childhood. There alternated two and a half pairs
of gloves ripped, the remains of a conquest, with a jar of shoe polish and a bottle of eau
de Cologne, to which the vagaries of fate became bottle of ink, after being long oil cruet.
Of invalid hung a coat hanger, a holster militia (1854), two striped
vests and a belt embodied seemed rope.

A nail holding the hat belonging to the previous generation, and kept in a trunk their dens
a few pieces of clothing, in which the patches, though many and various, not were so numerous
nor so picturesque as the holes are not patched.

"But asomémonos to the window. Since it is the roof opposite, with dormers, fireplaces and misifuces.
Below you can see the third floor of the house further down view, second, and finally the
principal. In this there is a close Window with flowers birds and ... nothing! Alejo continually
looked the other thing, containing the close. We say what was it?

It was a lady. Alejo watched her every day, and a singular effect imagination, was watching
after all night, awake and in sleep, if I wrote, at the bottom of the inkwell, and if pondered,
fluttering like butterfly spectrum around wan light that was sometimes star in the student's
paradise.

"Looking from there to the main floor front, was distinguished primarily a hand, then arm, which
was attached to an impressive alabaster bust, which sustained head of the young, uniquely beautiful
dare I describe it? Do I dare to say that was one of the most beautiful ladies, higher origin,
most distinguished treatment that has given society to this human race, so fruitful in dukes
and duchesses? Yes, I dare.

"From above, Alejo eyes devoured a big black hair, splendid, profuse, a river of hair, as my
illustrious friend Cantarranas. (Upon hearing this analogy that I surrendered public tribute of admiration
for the enlightened hero, he bowed and blushed modestly a crumb.) Under these hairs, Alejo
admired a white arch-shaped crescent: was the front, since such a high point of view affect this
particular form. The nose beard and the tip only looming. But what could eventually be full,
magnificent, were shoulders, admirable human sculpture shows that the fabric could not hide.
Gently hair fell on his back, the color of his face looked like the same marble, and there was
no Gooseneck whiter, airy and soft, and his breast like that, it seemed have come together all pleasures.
The grace of his movements was such that to our young it melted the brain always believed that
saluting a passerby or to the friend opposite.

When he was not placed on the balcony, the voices of a magnificent piano led, changed into
harmonies, to the Razorfen of poor student. If not admired, I heard: that power you love that uses
all the senses to consolidate their hold treacherous. But, strange case! never in the long
space of three years looked up at Alejo's nest, do not observe that ugly thing from so high
looking at her and listened to the pure fervor of idealism.

"Let us add that Alejo was shortsighted: the studio and watching this weakness had increased
not allowed to distinguish three on a donkey. Fortunately, the author of this book has a view admirable,
and, therefore, can be seen from the attic of Alejo what he could not: the lady, as he was in his
real form, stripped of all the charms that the fancy of had covered a myopic, the stains that
dotted the pretty face clouded after their last birth, one could see (and this was to collect
data that provided some girl) be that surprising that hair had intervened, God willing, that created
do not know what head, and then a very skilled stylist who fixed
it to the lady.

Also note that there was not as graceful as her waist from the boreal regions of Alejo seemed
and the nose was tinged with a rosy light, not enough to disguise its magnitude. As for the
piano, I'd swear the lady played in three years other than a pot-pourri
that began at Standard and ended in Bluebeard, extravagant piece he
had composed his inability what you heard the teacher, and finally,
with respect to the breast, would be able to bet ... "

I stopped coming here. Since I read it on the stains, I noticed some
murmurs bad content.

Were in crescendo, till it came to that passage, an exclamation horror
took my word and made me stop reading.

Cantarranas was nervous, the poet and fanned herself with rage, blind anger, and made a basilisk. I
do not know if I said that one of the four people in my audience, was a poet. I think when the
time to describe this illustrious female.

II

Which passed through literate very learned and very famous all over
the world, having written several volumes of poetry, and scrawled
in all albums madrigals of humanity.

Fulfilling certain physiognomic mysterious law, she was blonde like all poets, and obeying
the same fate, high and bony. The adorned a very pointed and sharp nose and a mouth made to order for
breathe through it, because their bodies were not breathing the easiest and most expeditious.
I do not know What were his works, always bearing the stamp of his nose, a vision that chased me
in dreams several nights, and the same effect of causing me nightmares as long as two reefs little
vegetation, that temple again and hung. As the suit, betrayed, was easy to assume his body
and as thin, and poor little amojamado Safos than is customary.

She was a widow, married and single. Let us explain. She was always heard that was a widow,
all the had as married, and was actually married. He once lived in a place with a journalist
provincial, and there spent by husbands. The unhappy consort was
a martyr.

She calls Columns legs of the social order, which was nothing but graceful figure of speech,
which covered his mortal aversion to sewing pants. She did not get the points to the socks, because,
shortly strong in all kinds of spellings, always had the mouth that
wise maxim: do not live bread alone, maxim that he wanted to hide
his complete ignorance on casseroles.

The novel was his passion: the melodrama of her husband's newspaper, published a it, but enemy
to lavish praise, described as a pyramid. I read three pages, and I confess that I found it very
Catholic. She also wrote another called eminently moral. I did not moralizing reading it, and gave
the copy to my servant, which I do not know who removed him.

Suffice to reiterate the reverence that filled me with the said lady for their competence in the
art of novel. I had said repeatedly that he wanted to instill some of his high principles, and
to this end as inexorable judge was attending to the reading.

The good of the poet was shocked to see the turn that I gave to the action. Rabidly idealistic,
and was intended to demonstrate his curls and his nose could not tolerate a fiction enter fictional
ladies were not the same beautiful, handsome young men who were not chivalry in person. So, out
to defend the privileges of idealism, took the floor, and rough and squeaky voice, she said:

"But
are you crazy? What kind of art, how great, what style is that? You certainly write to vulgar
people and no finesse, not distinguished spirits.

I thought I had been called to hear things more educated, more elegant. Oh! I do not understand
well the novel. I see the bias you are going to give that: ends with outrageous jokes, and has
begun. Ay! Trap for fools something that began so well! There's the germ of a high moralistic
work. What a pity! This attic, this poor young man who lives there, sadly gazed at the lady's viewpoint
... and spend days, and looks ... and spend nights, and look ... May I die if that I was not
able to do two volumes! And that mysterious lady ... I would not say who it was until the thirtieth
chapter.

You were admirably prepared the ground to make up a work of long breath. What a pity!

Upon hearing this, I do not know what happened to me. Since I made frank confession of my impressions,
although I may be unfavorable, I am compelled to say that the opinion
of someone so adept puzzled me, so i didn't get much time to say a
word.

Serve flush with that I confess to my singular atonement and to the smug audacity idea of ??convening
such enlightened jury, to make known one of the most ridiculous human mind abortions that have
been exit. I finally calmed, thanks to a few phrases always great kindness of the Duke, and
making an effort, responded to the poet:

"And since the beginning of the novel, given the two characters, the attic, close and others,
what you ran? How to develop the action? (Needless to say, in making these questions only led
me a desire to learn, taking over the recipes for composing literary devices that he used his
incomparable sibyl.)

- Oh! What would I do, you say? - Said coming up to me with such violence that I thought I was
going to skip the eye with his nose, - what would I do? Surely throwing a lot out there of these elements.
Suppose I am the author: this poor girl is very beautiful, it's dark
and interesting, a southern type, hot, a son of the desert.

From his window he constantly looks to the young, and spend the night
listening to the sad mayar of tigers (and call for now to cats, to
find another animal more poetic), and since there is annihilated in
the fool inspires love that mysterious lady, misteriooooosa ... What
shall I do?

My God! First to describe the lady very poetic ... cally, very languid, with blond hair, very
blond and floating, and a waist so .... (In saying this, he made an unusual gesture, determining
the thumb and index fingers of both hands a circle no larger than the periphery of an onion.)
The paint very sad, always dressed in white, day and night resting on the railing, hand on
the cheek, and looking at the vine, climbing plant lizard as balconies, came to his own shoulders.

-
I warn you - I said sheepishly - that I did not put garden, but street.

- No matter - said, - I take off the street and put wall units. Continue: the would always very
sad, and occasionally a tear came to his blue eyes, looking like errant drop spray that stops to
rest in the cup of a hyacinth. The young look to the lady, the do not watch the young lady.
Who is this lady? Is it a wife victim, a martyr daughter, a pure girl, thrown into the whirlpool
of society by the fury of the passions? Do you love or hate? Hope or fear? Ah! This is what
I would keep very well to say to the thirtieth chapter, Where would the great Golgo theatrical
work. Here is how to achieve develop action to see and get to know the two characters. One day
the lady crying more than ever, and looks more firmly into the garden, her white dress is
more than ever, more than ever on their hair blond.

A bird that plays in the bushes comes to rest on the vines near her hand the lady, and as seeing
the tip of the thumb feel is a cherry, the pike. The young screams, and at the same time save
the frightened little bird, soar, and go after perch in the loft across the street. The lady looks
up following the tiny volatile and see ... Will believe whom do you see? The young man who has
been eating it with twelve chapters eyes without it being condescending
stare.

Since then, an electrical current is established between the two lovers. It had looked! Ay! "

At
this point, I turned casually to the Duke of Cantarranas, was pale with emotion, a tear came
into his eyes green, resembling dew drop traveler stops to stand
in a lettuce cup.

Sentíame I confused, overwhelmed by the astonishing inventiveness, originality, the wit of the
woman, with whom the Safos and Staël were literate three to the room.

Of the other characters in my audience, say anything yet.

"Bravo, superb! - Said Cantarranas applauding with vigor and enthusiasm, thereby, that he jumped the
wrong button on his shirt stuck, and the tips were detachable neck
in the air.

"

- Do you like my thoughts to you? - Said the poet.

This is the only Canevas, then comes the style and ...

- I am excited about the idea - I replied, pointing with her pencil as the magic brush draw
your fantasy.

- This is the path you should follow he added, giving to Cantarranas a pin to be asserted neck.

-
Oh! The resort is lovely bird.

- The bird - Cantarranas said - should be the middleman between the white and the young lady South.

-
Well, I continue to develop the action as follows - .-- Here she continued: the young man took the
bird with her delicate fingers and giving him some bread crumbs, was fed several days, getting tame
dint of patience. You see how strange: it was loose in the room without trying to escape. One day
I tied a thread on the leg and threw him to fly, the bird came to rest on the balcony where
I was the lady, who stroked a lot and migajitas gave him cake soaked
in milk.

Later returned to the attic, the Young put a note tied around his
neck, and the bird carried it to the lady.

This established fast, passionate and volatile match that lasted three months. I would copy here
correspondence, which would take half a book, the most delicate and
elegant.

He began: "Mrs. Ignored: The winged characters that I send to you, will tell you, etc ..." And
she would reply: "Unknown Knight: With shame and dread I read your letter and would lie if
you do not ensure which of course I believe to find a loyal friend, a friend no more ... "For this
to Friends just a start. This prepares the reader to love the big
fuss to be come later.

- What tenderness, how soft, how pleasantly!
- Duke said at the height of admiration!

- I agree the thought -
I stated, noting that all discrete device to fit after in my work
as best suited me.

After the poet was shown in all its splendor,
decorated with gallantry from style, incomparable wit, then let me
run and shameful for the difference resulting from the wonderful inventiveness
and the dry, barren and birth of my caletre emaciated, How had I dared
to continue reading