 In the immediate corner shops students expected
dressmakers and old green, caressing the notes in your pocket for a piece Eslava, or tickets to
dance in favor Sutil. Before the churches, whose bells rang without being able to quell the noise
of the streets, waiting for the end of the ninth saloons of the great ladies with horses drawing
himself up proudly and long garages waterproof. Everywhere confusion reigned stirring, lively, almost
feverish, which form the continued sway of those returning from a walk or leave the work to which
they do nothing, going from one place to another, as ever trip insurance with fortune without
worrying to search.

Lazarus, leaning his elbows on the sill of a window of his room, and sunk his face between the
palms of the hands, was heard to reach its peak of garden arbors the constant dull roar that rises
from the village and cut into the early hours of the night; sound like the hoarse and prolonged
roar of a beast that is stretched and espereza before to lie down to sleep.

Listening to those voices generated by the movement and activity of modern life thought within
the width of the villa, after every balcony, every house, the glow of every light, every corner
back, who would suffer torture by its own and sharp penalties, but that nobody would suffer pain
so deep and bitter as his.

It was time to put into effect his firm and resolute purpose. Sounded when to leave the house
forever, and before leaving he wanted to cover it, condense it all last time in a farewell in
his memory as indelible traits there surrounded him while he lived
nearby.

He looked at the garden. Among the branches of the linden was shining, washed by rain, crystals
the stove, where so often talked of indifferent things which now seemed worthy of eternal
remembrance. To the left of the huge oleander and multiple arms extending its branches laden with
flowers, were the chairs and table iron, together with the spied many times, embroidering it,
devouring him with dilated pupils, while the breeze playfully lifted the girl's gown floating to discover
its exquisite foot, and gave off size of the tissue of fine yarn. Further afield were gathered
in a single plantation, upright on their slender stems, roses of Malmaison and Alexandria,
Josefina took care to dress with roses after she had showered.

All spoke your name, and, by some strange coincidence, the only balcony in which there was his
light.

An imprudent idea, fueled by a desire irresistible, then took Lazarus. Wanted, before you leave, see
Josephine's room, hang on as the eyes belonged touch As she played, live a moment in the sacred
enclosure that housed his dream, and collect perhaps lost in imagination,
the echo of some word of love lost between the curtains virginal bed.

He wanted to reach the sanctuary of the only idol who always had to believe, because it was the
only who could not touch.

It was after ten o'clock at night, and dukes, who had left her daughter
to the opera, probably not return until late.

The garden was dark, desert, not perceived more noise than the continuous fall of rain on the
gravelled walks and the merry laughter gossip of the servants who ate gathered in a downstairs kitchen.

Lazarus,
knowing that the field was free and safe, he ventured to suit your whim. Fell into the garden,
walk through him almost on tiptoe, and went from the lobby to the rooms of the Dukes, bringing
the hands forward, as he risked in the dark and without a guide unfamiliar terrain. The sound of
his footsteps was pulled off by the thick carpet extended along the corridors. At the end of
one of them, the bright spot shining in a keyhole told Josephine's room. Then advancing confidently
placed his trembling hand on the door latch, and secure impunity
for their boldness, suddenly opened.

A lamp forgotten about the white marble fireplace scattered faint glow, filtered through a frosted
glass pump, which, playing on the moon of a large mirror, duplicated the image of light without
increasing clarity. In the center of a veladorcito ebony covered by a carpet of silk fringed vivid
colors, had a green porcelain old Sevres, and the hollow of his glass
several pins, a ring and a narrow strip Satin woven two-tone pink
and white