 

Stories are told this prince, before inheriting the title of Sultan, he was hopelessly HIAL love with
the beautiful daughter of the first of the Wazir of his father, leading man and powerful, but even
a kinsman of the royal family, was not included in the calculations of Sultan old to allow
such a link. This is that the Sultan wanted to marry the prince Alamar child a princess of
Fez to say with such an alliance the Moslem empire in Spain, and power with the help of African
Kabyle, reject Christians who came over to walk him invading and occupying their territory,
as the incessant waves of a sea ambitious and insatiable.

The death of Alamar cut into flower projects as prudent, and released the new Sultan to follow
the candy inclinations of his heart, telling it that, with a strong arm and a strong will, could
face of Aragon to the east, and Castile the part of the Algarve of
his kingdom.

So while calls made from their governors and captains, and their armies and riders, and African
and Andalusian, came together, rushed the boy Sultan weddings, as should be with all the pomp,
and wealth gala monarchs used to Granada hold and pour on solemn occasions, and certainly nothing
for a loving heart more solemnity and grandeur that the day would
have the object who is both desired.

The Masamudes, the Aliatares, the Benegas and many other knights of noble families, crews available,
rods and tournaments, the ladies, relatives of the future Sultana, traced cármenes and gardens
in the festivities and zambras with which they had to hold so fortunate link, and the merchants
of jewelry, fabrics, scents and other precious objects were everywhere, and everywhere were missed,
it was so lively curiosity to see, and longing for purchase and possession at all costs of such
preciousness own luxury East and pageantry at that time held the Arab court of Granada. The lover
Sultan, meanwhile, performed in the palaces of the Alhambra and the Generalife Verjel all fictions
and dreams of the Arabian Nights, pouring riches and treasures, so
that those rooms were even more delighted worthy to receive and accommodate
the peerless HIAL.

Everything was ready now for the last ceremony, and the Sultan ordered
that his beautiful girlfriend go up from his home in Granada palaces
the palaces of the Alhambra, three days before weddings, which were
set to the halide or full moon of the month of flowers.

Mohamad's mother was Sultana's future as the most beloved daughter, the latter race from his palace
at one end of town to the royal lodge, was a triumph. In addition to all the nobility of his
home and kindred, and the princes of the blood that rode on superb horses, appealed by gangs
and boasts the richest finery and jewels, were the ulema, imams, Wazir and Kadis, each in its
rightful place. Then let the guard see Jacinto, made of a thousand black slaves, and so-called
the stone that shone in turbans and then followed the invincible, consisting of three thousand Africans
with silver shields and wielding spears of bright red steel shafts. From a distance they looked
coming twenty and twenty zebras giraffes, leading in flasks sandalwood and precious woods, clothing,
gifts, alizaque or dowry of the bride, and then between a large delegation of sheiks and elders,
chiefs of the Kabyle and lineages, it was left see a rich palanquin
hook, lace and brocade, and poles of coral and pearl.

We also forget that preceded the Sultana numerous bands of musicians dressed the indica-fashioned,
and blowing their instruments by the most soft and voluptuous, and
went ahead vistosísimas twelve peacocks spreading their wings to other
poultry peregrina nature and brought from Arabia, from Iraq and Hindi.

What catches the public's curiosity was to see the jumps and gestures of a large number of
monkeys and Jimi, who of all sizes and degustation, and forming a squad as extravagant, were mimicking
the mood and seriousness of the solemn and long procession. Some, height and flood were brought
from the interior of Africa, and they were dressed in their Capellaro,
Marlotes and turbans, would err on your veneers revejidas, bright
eyes sunken and other accidents, some of the old officers of the court.

He

said one is the Cadi Anakin, this is the Abdual Katib, cried another, as this other, yelling that,
without the slightest bit more or less, is the mayor of the treasures Albut Seid. See what
open eyes gleam as you see something that looks like gold or silver