 The Countess widow was one lady equipped with a spirit
so positively prosaic, that without a doubt she had destroyed all the speeches of poetic suppositions
that Poldy had bought up, and that in some way wanted.

In addition, Countess Zaheri frequently blamed his daughter, describing her as outlandish, dreamy, deluded,
a staunch enemy of wisdom and reason, as well as a reckless persecution of ideals. If the Countess widow
thought that Poldy was ignoring the event of the stork, what then, would she say if he knew? Poldy did
not return, then, to talk about him or his brother, as if his own
brother ignored him, or as if she was under the pretense that he had
forgotten.

On his own, and in all freedom, Poldy was at their disposal talk of
of author of the three poetries.

Either he supposed to the author to be in Benarés, or in Delhi, or in
Calcutta, or in other places of India, but always noble, young and
beautiful, if not a prince.

The incognito personage suffered a similar mental disease to the one Poldy had. It's symptoms were
the disdain and the weariness of whatever surrounded him, and the
confusingly vague aspiration to a far-off goodness, nearly vanished
in the mists and vapors of a thousand dreams.

Poldy rejected the vulgar and foolish beliefs of his brother, that the author was a German scholar who
composed verses in Sanskrit to entertain himself, or to show his skill. For her however, there
was no doubt: the verses were the work of a distinguished young gentleman
from India.

Poldy often went further still in his bold imaginations. She did not believe that the long-legged
bird which had appeared to him had even the smallest similarity with ever the swan of Leda, or the
white bull with the brave daughter of Agenor,but might the stork
not be an instrument of a great sage, perhaps a genius or a fairy,
whose powerful suggestions had been obeyed in it's coming to visit?

Who would dare to limit the extent of what was possible?

A memory came to Poldy of the story of the Thousand and One Nights, and he was delighted to boast that
she bore some resemblance to the story.