 I understand. The affection is not something removable.
And I think I feel a certain interest in you and I would not want to see you unhappy. Behave
well, and we'll see.

This tone of protection, so unlike the state of both extremely shocked Salvador; but his surprise
and alarm the point when Navarro went up after taking a while palms
hand over the fire, went to his brother and him on the face of those
hands burned as iron plate, said slowly:

- Let me end this great
season, and then see.

Salvador said nothing. He suspected that his brother's head was a monstrous idea, and would not
pursue the idea, fearing to see the sad suspicion confirmed. Leaving that was scorched hands
again, approached the window to see the snowfall, which that day
was abundant.

It seemed the world sailing in a sea of ??infinite swan feathers.

Entered at the time the father died of cold Zorraquín sat astride a chair, facing the fire, stretching
his feet to the fire. Shortly after the heat of the flame alive forced him to depart. Began to
darken, being at this season shorter afternoon the hope of the poor, and Mrs. Hermenegilda gave birth
to a splendid lamp, competitor winter sun. Closed timber, the four were prepared to lie to the very
long breasts evening, that seemed a century, when it was led to interesting and varied entertainment.
Doña Hermenegilda half was very lightly. That night winding skeins needed thread, and as I had no reel,
prestose, as usual, to supplement the blessed Father Zorraquín. Man was very friendly. The priest
talk that talk, and the lady that unwinds unwinds, it seemed that from the lips of that came
the word, and the skein of his hands the thread, and Doña Hermenegilda was wrapping the interminable
speech, making it a big ball, that could pass for bulky book. The priest spoke, arms and hands
moving slowly swing to come out the string, the ball grew, from apple walnut, apple a pumpkin,
and the two brothers heard and silent, one stationary, the other marking each lap of the yarn
with a tap as the clamps on the edge of the fireplace. Every time the thread slipping, rubbing
with the thumb of the right hand of the priest, Navarro was a blow. It was like the beat of
a hourglass 17. You'd think that four individuals were a mechanism dentate built to talk ball, and
to ovillar seconds. Salvador could have pass through the hourglass shows that human 18, because
his face did not express anything, unless the immutable sadness of a schedule.

What had Zorraquín? Zumalacárregui's exploits, which was the subject bound in Pamplona and Navarre.
The neatness of the good priest is not for imitated here, as he had proposed be in the future historian
of that great war, and sought to gather all the news materials. Taking advantage of it all, just
the fact that the doubtful, and using the historical and anecdotal, an associate elements of
a colossal literary store, fortunately, perished in a fire years later.

Zorraquín related actions, describing places, reproducing the words, giving addresses the tone
and size of speeches to Livy