 Nowhere is a soldier,
  police officers in number, tolerant and humble, in contrast with
  other nations, scarcely show themselves, refraining very good
  practice that series of attacks on individual liberty that seems
  to be their primary school in some countries.
  

  The power brokers in Switzerland, starting with the president the
  Federal Confederation, are extremely humble and modest.
  I have known two-Herosée Colonel Frey, and Dr. Furrer, both educated,
  modest, statesmen, honest and straight. Unknown luxury, as the
  last living city, and mixed with everyone. They have six thousand
  fr. annual salary!

  
  The statistic, which is the true story of the people, presented
  in the old Helvetia in regard to instruction and characters
  morality's own civilization, data dildos, enviable figures.

  
  
  Among the most notable lakes of Switzerland, Excel and excels
  The Lucerne, Catholic city, and one of the first. In all
  hours is the traveler coming to Lucerne prettiest vapors
  and economically comfortable lead you to the most Switzerland's
  picturesque sites.

  During the summer, foreigners from all countries, ie all travelers
  Europe, cross the lake of Lucerne.
  
  The town of Thun [12], five leagues from Berne, has also a beautiful
lake, as are all of the country, homeland them.

  Thun has a beautiful hotel in Buenavista and is delicious surrounded
  by mountains.
  
  Geneva, a city the most advanced Swiss Confederacionon, is no dispute
  under the literary one of the first centers in Europe. Calvin
  founded a university. Library Geneva's main contains 60,000
  volumes. Home to many remarkable men, including Rousseau,
  Calvin, Madame de Stael, Lesage, Huber and many others,
  kept their traditions today literary. There in Geneva a number
  of newspapers political, reading rooms, literary societies,
  academies and other intelligence centers, shining in its midst
  many distinguished men.

  There I met many teachers eminent political and Fazy. The
  best ride in Geneva is the of the island with a statue dedicated
  to Rousseau.
  
  Under the political aspect is the real capital Geneva Federal:
  Berne truth is that the government lies, true that there meets Federal
Assembly, but it is less than Berne nothing is said or discussed and
Geneva: the city Calvin dramatize everything political, the discussion
remains always lively.

  
  
  Trade in Geneva is also more important than Bern accrue within
  three years the importance of this city ??with the railroad that
  will link with Lyon, is now completed and opened to the public:
  there are hotels like the eSCelente of London on Lake Leman.

  The best hotels Berne is the de la Couronne and the Faucon.

Lake
  Geneva is delicious [13]: crossed by cute comfortable steam,
  making the crossing of Lausanne offers a show admirable. Comfort
  and economy is the traveler to go to Geneva from Lausanne on the
  lake: the glance is admirable is the highest head of Mont Blanc,
  the Glaciers, Chamouny, the Alps.

  
  
  The Geneva meeting should certainly watch the penalty seen, are
  built one hundred thousand watches each year, almost all stores offer
the country watches.

  Switzerland exports many thousands throughout Europe and
  America.
  
  Freiburg, Catholic city also has a walking and amazing surroundings,
almost all foreign visitors Switzerland, are directed to hear the
famous Freiburg bodies the cathedral and see his bold suspension bridge.

  
  
  The lakes of Interlaken and Brienz, near Thun, that the eleven seen
  from Righi, that of the four corners, all because that's the truth,
all surely deserve a trip: have the lakes a special beauty that seduces
and falls.

  
  
  Nothing is more admirable than their appearance: they are
  almost all surrounded by clear blue-white snow-capped mountains:
  tranquility of the gentle blue waves that cross prettiest vapors,
  the clear blue sky that serves as dome, enclosed by towering
  mountains that serve as framework, such as Interlaken, make the lake
a deliciosísimo pleasure that the imagination is not enough, that
only their view offers.

  
  
  The splendid and numerous hotels all over Switzerland found, none
  of Europe served as the most luxurious admirable road opulence,
  opulence and say because that name befits a country where everywhere
  are increasing: how comfortable and well arranged its docks proceedings,
  all attached to its picturesque sites make of Switzerland in the
summer choose residence of all European travelers.

  
  
  The Swiss, who in spite of his very short public wealth, its negligible
  taxes and has as its exaggerated modesty great number of road-models,
  and also entered in the improvement of railways, and is not the
  whole country ferrous cross roads because no pecuniary resources,
nothing else, and because the terrain is mountainous throughout.

  
  
  Despite the substantial costs of the works required nature, and
  very few elements of the country, and cuéntanse open to the public
  and five different lines in operation, that although short
  extension is very useful. From Basel or Basel leave two, of Zurich
  other, and the Lausanne é Yverdun remaining, besides the Geneva to
Lyon.

  It works much its continuance, and undertake new ones.
  
  What is a real secret to the traveler, is the admirable state
  of all roads in Switzerland, notwithstanding that Nowhere is a road
worker, policeman or something similar.

  
  
  It certainly seems like magic: the Swiss neither has nor can
  hold more than a small number of employees in ratio to its extremely
  easy organization and his modesty and lack of resources combined:
  with hard work is a road worker for the few out there. It is extremely
  rare to see one: well, in spite of all, no better roads in Europe.
  The security offer is absolute, one year I lived in Switzerland
  soon, throughout that time has not even committed a robbery,
  or an attempt.

  As with this case and on the roads: navvies admirable no, absolutely
  sure without a gendarme.
  
  The meadows and fountains abound everywhere: do not go around
  twenty steps across the territory of the Confederation without
  find graceful houses and poetic meadows.

  Arguably, the population resides in rural areas. In this circumstance,
  joined to valleys, waterfalls, lakes and mountains, travel
  by Helvetia former are a real pleasure.
  
  Of the three million people that are coming soon the nation, there
  is a third of Catholics: the rest composed of Protestants and
  Jews, few in number. The Protestantism in Switzerland, is, as elsewhere,
  divided in countless sects, each of which claims to possess the true
... which is enough to judge, but in Switzerland there true religious
tolerance, and all religions are respected and stimulate each other.

  
  
  In Bern, a city that I ordinarily inhabited as residence of the
  diplomatic corps, there is only one church Catholic, others,
  including the Cathedral, are intended to Protestant worship,
  which lacks the ceremonies and solemnities all kinds. During
  the summer, concerts are given in Cathedral, as in a theater, in
order to listen to the foreigners held that church body.

  
  
  The civil and criminal legislation of each canton is different;
  such as language and religion.

  Among many other Case I had the curiosity to read, highlighting
  the following for its originality.
  
  A Swiss citizen of the canton of Zurich, resident in the Schwitz,
  the oldest of the Helvetia, manufactured forty coins false, twenty
  cents each value, which reduced to our way of counting,
  is the paltry sum of thirty reais. Discovered his crime and was
  imprisoned, has been sentenced to "five days of fasting in prison,
  estrangement of the canton of ten years and forty sticks. "This
  testuale is the tenor of the sentence.

  I had an opportunity like this to read each other in different
  cantons. As the original document I have deemed it down in
  my book.
  
  This statement, with many of this kind, which often uttered
  in Switzerland, gives a very bad idea culture of the people in general.
  Despite this, the state of country is flourishing, and more reduced
crime statistics elsewhere in Europe.

  Can this be explained? hard: this is one of the many phenomena of
  life offers people a whole, and beyond analysis.
  

  Swiss universities are three: Basel, Zurich and Bern: the 1855, were
  attended by 166 students of medicine, 350 theology, 400 and
  500 right philosophy.

  
  Publicans in Switzerland 225 newspapers in the three languages
  ??of the country, German, Italian and French, there are different
  libraries, literary societies and academia.
  
  Geneva, as I have already pointed out, is the first city in
  the Swiss Confederation, considered as the center of literary illustrations
of the country, such as residence politicians more advanced.

  As soon as they complete the railway lines to be met Lyon and Geneva
  to Bern, the home of Madame de Stael, important and in every respect,
  prodigiously augment in significance.
  

  The peaceful character of the Swiss breeds peculiar feature of Germanic,
  which makes them so controllable in any occasion you I studied
  better than in all town meetings Sundays.
  
  Hotels in second and third order, are gathering regularly
  large number of families, women, children and spouses. It sit
  peacefully next to a table, drink his indispensable beer, talk,
  laugh, sing in chorus, but never dispute. It matters very little
  beer with their action flammable, can heat the brain, that
  matters little a piece, and at different tables, sometimes gathered
  there three hundred people who smoke, sing and drink, no matter no
bottle is broken, no seat is damaged, no contest, all usual and quietly
retire to their homes to reconvene on Sunday.

  
  
  Apply this practice to our Latin race, whether it be French, Italian
  or Spanish, to the half hour of meeting have been puzzled about
  some of the guests, and every time drinking together there are
  disputes. This difference property, applying it in the highest
  sense and important, somehow explains the ease with which they
  govern Germanic race and the cause of almost continuous disturbances
Latin peoples.

  
  
  The year 1855, according to official data, were held in Switzerland
  16.270 marriages: the number of children born in that year was
  of 363.40, and the girls that of 33.660, which forms a total 70.000
  infants. It is well known, and we say elsewhere, that total
  population of the old Helvetia not reach three million. The deaths
  occurred in the same year of 1855 were number of 55.500 people.
  Marriages can be calculated rate of one for every 147 inhabitants,
  born for every 34, and one death for every 43 people. Male gender,
  contrary to usually happens in other climates, unless you
  live in Switzerland females, nor are many examples of longevity in
no sex.

  
  
  With respect to their industry, which somewhere else we take care,
we need to add very valuable data on trade in 1856 has made the United
States of America.

  
  
  In the twelve months of 1856, remittances to Switzerland United States
  of America the following items: watches, amounting to 2,404,575
  dollars, in silk, worth 4,875,636 dollars, in cotton and embroidered
  items, worth of 641.927 dollars, in hats, silk ribbons, worth 444.135,
  total remittances of 8,368,074 dollars, each dollar is 20 r., 20
mrs.

This crecidísima sum for a small country like Switzerland, product
of their trade with one nation, shows palpably how great the progress
of industry, benefit their artifacts sold in all countries and big
promotes trade.

  In watches, the city of Neuchatel alone, according to official
  data, built in 1856 1,600,000 watches: Watch this extraordinary
  figure the huge number of watches made in Geneva, and understand
  the immense importance of his watch.
  
  Wyss Echer's house and company in Zurich, which industrial establishments
  occupy half of the city district, provides employment to
  3,000 workers, and above all go home beautiful day and excellent
  steam equipment all kinds.

  The silk also is another booming industry that thrives
  in the same canton.
  
  In 1855 there were fifteen establishments Swiss bank, or rotation,
  with a capital of 64 million francs, the circulation ticket in
  that year was valued at 10 million Franks and the total turn around
the year amounted to 1,354,111,309 fr., very very respectable and
very high according to population and social wealth in Switzerland.

  The credit enjoyed by the nation, thanks to their governments and
  excellent scholars and excellent institutions is the most enviable,
  and has been virtually because of the issue with Prussia, having
  been offered to Swiss bankers from all countries much money could
  need.
  
  The industry is also booming in Switzerland and a enviable
  state of prosperity, there everything is improved, all progresses,
  the shadow of good laws faithfully executed.
  
  Is known in Europe and America watches admirable Geneva, then to have
them around the world with their finishes products, increases every
day the city's wealth, embellishes its great shopping and increases
the wealth of ilustradísima wise and Geneva, which is up around his
prodigious Lake superb modern building, that have nothing to envy
to the best of any other capital of Europe.

  Geneva, which excels in Europe for academies and wise, which has
  a literary life, which keeps traditions, which is heavily embellished
  by nature with Mont Blanc, the lake, and its admirable decoration,
has, in addition to his brilliant watches, other many advanced industries,
also excelling in all Europe in the art of mounting diamonds and all
that relates to jewelry.

  
  
  The canton of St. Gall [14] has its lace and held lace, cutting-edge
  industry that each day more prosperous.
  
  The canton of Zurich in 1855 dealing in the manufacture of silk
  30.000 workers, counting 24.000 looms.
  
  The city of Basel, industrious and very well for excellence trade
  is one of the richest of Switzerland. Its capital, Basel
  has many reputable business houses, roads iron to France,
  Germany and central Switzerland, banks and industrial, commercial
  and many relationships ever-increasing wealth and prosperity. Great
  mills paper and silk, musical instruments are manufactured.

The
  canton of Solothurn, mostly Catholic, differs also with gas plants,
cotton, snuff, and wallpapers.

  
  

  The canton of Glarus excels and stands out for its excellent cloth
  factories, is very industrious and also that of Neuchatel.

  
  
  The main rivers in Switzerland are the Rhine, the Aar, the Reuss,
  the Orbe, and Sane, between the lakes of memories is that
  of Bienne, near Bern, which was Rousseau.
  
  The canton of Ticino, flourishing agriculture, factories straw hats,
great wealth, Catholic.

  It has also, as all corners of the picturesque Helvecia, its quiet,
  poetic lakes, among which are the Mayor, who had the sitting
  like a long time to admire its banks with a book in hand.

  
  
  The canton of Solothurn, which bathes the Aar capital, is trade has
cotton mills, gas, snuff and other industries: Thurgau, industrial
and manufacturing, many factories silk fabrics: Schaffhausen, capital
of the canton of the same name and country of the great historian
Muller, has also much trade along the Rhine

In Lausanne, one of the
cantons that stand out for their literary and pious establishments,
there is a school blind worth visiting and object of admiration deserved.

Founded

  with high education and Christian thought and pick up the unhappy
  deprived of essential organ of sight, no question to any of
  its sponsors what your nationality: support and pick up all the blind
that are presented in any country and religion they are, have that
great circumstances.

  
  
  The year 1855, when I resided in Switzerland, entered the 207 Lausanne
  establishment of blind: this large number only 47 paid for their
  attendance, being educated and fed charge by the establishment of
  the remaining 160 number who entered the year.

  
  
  The school has a local great, great teachers very good food, sage
  system, hygiene, admirable practices, and finally, as may be
  desired. The blind learn music and languages, between different
  subjects that make up the teaching, the school has very good machines
to teach music and is truly an admirable institution.

  
  
  The Swiss people is stunning, simple, patriarchal, pastor, laborious,
cultivator, pious, patriotic, soldier, and above and as serving as
a crown, free, essentially free, happy people!

  God by his holy ensure independence forever! A people that has
  such great history must be free and has indisputable right to
  be. I shall record here in my book a gold page in your history
  book, that page is opened November 17, 1307, the date memorable,
  everlasting time.
  

  The day November 17, 1307 met thirty eminent patriots founders of
  Switzerland: the site choose to hold their meeting was the picturesque
  Grutli promontory, which I visited with pious reverence, and
  there with heavy hearts in the presence of God; resolved to
  create a village, spoke the following oath

"We swear before God,
before whom the Kings and peoples are equal, to fight and die for
our brothers, to act and feel in common, no threats of violence or
injustices committed ourselves not to respect the rights and property
of the Earl of Hapsbourg, to do no harm to the viceroys, but to put
an end to his tyranny.

  "
  
  Sublime and noble oath fulfilled! founding the independence
  of the magnificent Switzerland, May God always keep open.
  The first who gave the Grand oath so eloquent, so moral, so patriotic,
  were the distinguished patrician Walter Furst, Stauffacher, Melchthal,
  Werner, Switzerland August name recognized that the saved and saved
forever in his memory.

  
  
  At the meeting of November 17, 1307, it was agreed that the day the
  general uprising was on 1 January 1308.
  
  In the village of Altorf, which I visited twice, took place Gesler
  and tremendous scene with William Tell, which was precision Point
  and shoot his arrow at the apple placed on the his son's head ...
one of the most barbarous tortures taxes have never been to any parent.

In

  the same village Altorf, there is a stone fountain crowned
  the statue of Tell shooting an arrow.
  
  Switzerland is the modern Arcadia, William Tell was a fisherman,
  his village belongs to the canton of Uri, than with Schwitz
  and Unterwald up the first three cantons that formed the
  League and the foundation of Swiss nationality.

  These three cantons joined the first, Lucerne, Zurich, Glarus,
  Zug and Bern: the end of the fifteenth century, entered the league
  to reinforce the cantons of Solothurn and Fribourg, Basel and Schaffhausen
  Apenzel were admitted into it at the start of the sixteenth
  century.
 