 Is something wrong at home?

- No: if I left I was almost at the same
time as you!

Nothing happens, but I want to talk.

Dona Manuela entered in the pharmacy, esperola him outside, and just
saw her leave, continued to Thus, while she obediently followed him:

-
Let's go there next, the portico of San Isidro .-- And they went up
the stairs of the church.

- Look at you, mother, I will not shut
up: I disgustadísimo.

Since I have arrived in Madrid a heart full of sadness ...

- I understand, son, our situation is not without reason.

If you saw the bay ever! ... And what's left! ...

- There's nothing like that.

- I do not understand you.

- Now you
understand me My duty was to tell my father that I will tell you,
but I think that you will understand me better, also his character
and state ... Later I'll see what I have to do.

- Character, you say?

If the poor are not upset or annoyed anyone ever!

...

- Maybe that goodness we have much to mourn.

- Explain, by God, my
son!

- Yes, mother, much to mourn and to feel.

Well, Clarita, at home no religion, and where takes religion all
is lost.

So God punished you.

- God punish!

- I seem to you a few sentences that disease, the scarcity of such
suffering!

...

- And what did we do?

We all work. Have not you seen the life they lead your brothers and what I labors?

- Ask what you can do!

It seems impossible! It is impossible for God to help you.

Vainly sought to provide sweetness to his phrases, the extraordinary vividness of an accused
eyes strong resolution.

- No, mother, do not expect you relief or protection. At home there is no religion, no praying,
no practice a single devotion ... Da creeps thinking.

For almost a month since I'm in Madrid I have seen many sad things! Not a prayer, nor an act
of mercy!

I understand that father not go to church, although it may well replace it with some acts of devotion
and penance; But what about you? Leocadia what? What about Pepe? You live as heretics! I confess,
mother, I doubted much before taking this step, but my duty is first and foremost. Do not you feel
afraid ... shame to live well?

- And what do you want? I do not control ... I take care of the house ... and nothing more: cleaning
... work and more work ... I do not know!

- Clean and working! With that you think has been accomplished!

When the Lord takes this world, that will ... unfortunately, is save
you to have had the house neat?

The house clean and the black soul by sin! All neatly for oneself, all work for the same,
and not a visit to the house of God, not a thought for Mother Divine! Da anger to see him!

Doña Manuela heard in silence, overwhelmed with this unexpected disappointment, that even for low
intelligence was a sign of bigger ones.

The vehemence of Tirso became exacerbated therefore the poor old
woman could not help but say, almost angrily:

- Son, no slapping,
people see us!

He was already possessed of his role, and would not listen.

- There is no son!

There is but one priest who had seen the foul leprosy of atheism
and wants to heal.

Did you hear, mother? If you do not help me, I will just ... I will try alone, and if I can not
do, I'll tell you all face to face, shake at the door the dust off my shoes, like the patriarchs
of Israel as they left the house of the wicked, and you will not
see me ever again.

- And the scandal and disgust your father will
die.

- What more death than we have up?

The heart closed to pity ... If you simply enter there to be convinced!

... Pictures of prisoners liberals on the walls, newspapers perverse
those selling in the streets, carrying noveluchas comedies of the
press that Miller and that you allow to read Leocadia, bad books ...
and throughout the house there is an image of the Virgin or a wooden
cross ...

- I do not control ...

- Well, you need to send In the
absence of a father, and we as missing, you are the should govern:
I'll help ... and choose you, mother to remedy the evil, or let the
remedy myself, against my father, against Pepe, against all.

- No,
son of my soul, my God, why not, Pepe did not talk about these things!

-
Ah!

Do you have fear? Not me.

They spoke quietly, alone in a corner of the churchyard, while looking at them curiously a woman
on the steps of selling prints, framed faces of God tin, groundnuts, hawthorn and torrao. Tirso intimidating
gestures gesticulating with his mother broken-she, and eager to cut the dialogue, looked alternately
at the floor and onto the sidewalk opposite where was the pharmacy. The charges of impiety did
not at first impressive; Tirso but when presented as the cause of the evils suffered and promise
of eternal punishment, womanly weakness gave the thrust of the believer.

What set her worst, was the threat of would talk to Pepe.

They kept silent for a moment: he, doubtful of the success of your
business, she, embarrassed, anxious to escape the violent influence
of his son, to subdue it better, just say it: "I am but a priest."

-
Are we going to the pharmacy? - Finally dared to ask the mother.

-
Wait for you, do not want us to separate well.

You have to promise before the rescue.

Will it work You with me so that we are all Christians, and I understand I with Pepe and my father?
Can you imagine you live holy by not doing harm to others? What blindness! What about yourself?
What about your salvation? Pray you, mother, this is the first, and God's light and remove them from
your soul that apathy come You to church, and little to awaken the good feelings, you will stop
laughing antics sacrilegious my brother, you shall burn with desire for help. Did you promise?

-
Yes, my son - said embarrassed - but Pepe did not tell any of this.

- As I understand it is him who is to blame for what happens! We agreed that you are mine, ie
God, otherwise I will leave for good, after declaring openly to all I do not want to live among
Jews.

Slowly descended the stairs of the court, Tirso waited at the door
of the shop and saw leaving his mother with a bottle in his hand,
said:

- Both care, such request to seek remedy for the ills of the
body that do not matter nothing and no one thought to the health of
the soul!

Remember what you just mentioned.

Then he left her, leaving her confused and frightened, a woman who's just been amazing committing a
crime. Sin, condemnation, impiety, had sounded in their ears how empty words, the warnings
of a Bossuet had not exercised in she most empire. What was left unnerved about the threat of
her husband and Pepe, safe that reduced Tirso counterclaim sour cause a scene, perhaps a break and
a grave disappointment. What could she do about it? Nothing. To tell pulse felt all to get home,
but then what? Don Jose may cede anything, to please the child present, as private lived many
years more, what would Pepe seeing their mimics, their care, their jobs to avoid any distress
to his father were sterilized with interference Tirso in the life of the house? Dona Manuela
was not able to analyze the conflict, and their willingness hard to meet. The low energy applied all
his soul into the house with dry eyes.

* * * * *

       

Arrived on Sunday morning went very Tirso, Leocadia, after having breakfast, helped raise his
father and when he had to sit in the chair, called Pepe, who getting dressed to go see Peace.

-
Pepe, Pepe! - Shouted from the bedroom of Don José - see, that I
can not put a single dad the chair.

He attended in shirtsleeves, kissed her father, who supported waiting on the edge of the bed
and rising vigorously, he sat in the chair, between him and then pushed him Leocadia to the dining
room and served chocolate donuts, which every Sunday very early Pateta wearing their protective
home.

When Pepe was a complete dress, asked his sister:

- What about Mom?

-
In mass.

- In Mass? - Pepe repeated, surprised, but without showing
anger.

- Yes, as it is here Tirso, understand? will not dislike.

-
That it should be.

Did not add a word, but did not go unnoticed by the news.

The mother had gone to church.

Would really only in deference to his son, or would have been a part of this incitement? Both were
credible. "If things first - I thought Pepe - nothing about it in particular: if second, that
my brother is bad start and, little by little, and stop pretending that we go down the table
of the chest with his fists. Whatever, I'm not unprepared: we shall see. "

XV

Doña Manuela was unable to appraise the importance of having this
sudden interference of his eldest son in the life of the house, but
quailed at the idea that the two brothers serious disagreements arising
father upset readers.

As a remedy, only occurred to him to prevent any explanation between Tirso and Pepe. It was
forced to give consent to the wishes of one, go to Mass, devotional practices and submit to yield
to his will, as before had yielded and had bowed to the lack of religious spirit which always
showed the husband and younger son. Doblegóse therefore eager to avoid setbacks, and his first act submission
was to go to Mass on Sunday. At the back of the church, received her Tirso a smile and she
felt cariñosísima paid for his trouble, for such it seemed, on more than usual early in the morning,
dressing better than usual care leave from home and spend half an hour in the temple praying Hail
Marys and Our Fathers, which was almost forgotten. Harbored some suspicion that the hiciese Pepe
fun, but it said nothing that would make suspect dislike: instead Tirso, although kind gesture,
he asked:

- Why has not led you to Leocadia?

- And who was to do things in the house?

- Everything should be put
off to meet the Lord.

Doña Manuela had thought about it, but took into account that it was necessary to raise the
bed Don José, have lunch and arrange the rooms, also found that because Miller worked during the week
and took advantage of Sunday to see Leocadia, they might lose the visit the groom, if he could
come early. The worst was that the silence Dona Manuela his son the priest the latter consideration,
it was already too much docility test.

Pepe waited impatiently until Wednesday of that week, which was a public holiday, and while
dressed in his room was tuned to the noises he heard, eager to gather, by the sound of footsteps
and the opening and closing of doors, if he would go to church also his mother. Did not last
much uncertainty, his sister called him quickly to lift Don Jose,
and as it will asked the mother, said Leocadia had gone to church.

-
Even though I hide it - said Pepe - see here goes hand Tirso.

- Do
not know, but, take charge, while he was here, nobody seems to hear
Mass ugly.

- You will understand my fear list.

Know that these issues made between us every one what they want.

Dad and I do not believe in certain things, and we never practiced,
as they say the devotees, you have not done so because you would not,
but nobody forced you to be Jewish.

- Man, we're not Jewish!

- Well,
suppose you now take for there, in that I do not go.

The sad thing would be that the warnings advice, perhaps the threat of Tirso, achieved that
cayeseis overkill: as Dad and me, no one we do, for example, fasting, eating on Friday, nor do
foolish things on.

- I do not think you get into that.

- It should prevent all.

If this has been something of Tirso and started to make her go to mass, then want to confess, to ensure
the Blessed and go to the Forty Hours, with all of which see how's the house and neglected to
meet dad.

- You're believing that the Inquisition has come through the door.

-
Miracle is not intended to make us all blessed.

At that moment the bell rang and ran to open Leocadia.

It was Dona Manuela, to be Pepe felt against immutable.

- What color was the chasuble? - Jokingly asked him .-- And why do you stay so, mother? Not that
I were a policeman!

- How have these ideas!

- Do not think me angry, and I have no right, nor is there why. But feel, if walking hand it
Tirso, finish by sorberte the brain and turn you into one of those devout that eat the saints.

-
Both, no, but a bit of religion, it hurts.

- How does occasionally
a purge?

- What you hear your brother, and dispute the song.

- You're
right: better not hear me, because we would end up quarreling.

-
Look, son, do not have a dislike for you.

- For me, no, Mom, you
can be sure.

Provided he does not make things worse and pretend that give us showers
of Lourdes.

- I warn you I do not say anything!

I went to church because, while here it seemed to me ugly ...

This
apology is not required, even entreaty, went to Pepe, a ray of light:
and there was no doubt that the trips to church were the work of another.

Propúsose since then a lot of patience, observe, exaggerating prudence,
and prepare to counter the influence of strongly his brother when
necessary.

What would determine this need? It was not easy to guess.

Tirso If managements were reduced to imposing masses and rosaries,
it would not be the case penalty involved in this, I mean would be
slowly sucked the mother's devotion then thinking to change the life
of the house, that would lead to wrong ideas of her husband, requirements
arise, intolerance, anger at the lack of piety and fanaticism as brings
religious.

Pepe knew that religion is, in respect of the unbeliever, so the seduction over women: the
first for the first condescension, is the guarantee of due inevitable.

How far the victory, nobody knows, that as virtue, given by passion, he loses his will, so the
soul, subdued by faith, denies its own criterion.

And like Dona Manuela was low, and Pepe, despite the professed affection, do not know if the fanaticism
that ruled his spirit, that home, always calm trocaría is suddenly on a branch of hell. "It is natural
- he thought trying to dive in the intention of his brother - with Dad and me dares not: if
it sets campaign to moralize first seek to conquer them. That makes them say whatever you want,
for me, until suck the beads, but put together here fighting to defend the priests trabucaires,
wasting money on novenas and Dad for neglecting to dress the baby Jesus, what is that ... No way!
"

A few weeks elapsed without the situation varies considerably, but not Pepe will go unnoticed
every detail of what happened. The most salient developments mother were put Friday aside for a pot
Tirso, not wanting to eat meat placed at the head of the bed a wooden cross, stopping on Sunday
Mass a little longer than the first day, and buy a prayer book printed in bold, person themselves
for years have tired eyes. In addition, Leocadia also began to go to church and both were to
repeat the prayer said before meals Tirso Where .--«¿ devils have learned this prayer? "- Pepe asked.

Lasted
little doubt. One morning, looking for scissors in the sewing room of her sister, found in it,
between the wires and tapes, a book, whose cover was written this title: Prayers new to all acts of
life, which are all shields against evil temptations.