 

The butcher was with Don Paco from a sprocket, and confident that if you are Becerrita and
was invalided to kill her, which is the brains, tongue and the best of the spine not presented
at another table but in the Don Paco, except that of his daughter, about whom later.

Amazing was the activity of Don Paco, but was far from sterile. With so many trades He flourished
and thrived it was a blessing from heaven, and though he had begun in his youth not possess
more than the day and night, had finally owning a good farm. Hazas had two in the ring, one
of three bushels. The other only had a bushel and five bushels, but as there had been in the
old cemetery at the site, land was very generous and chickpeas produced more and fatter buttery
and tender that ate throughout the province, compared with which the pellets were held Alfarnate
chickpeas. He also had fifteen aranzadas Don Paco olive, whose olive trees were none cantacucos,
but very dense and almost every year brought bumper crop of olives, with Gordale famously, he
used to dress very well, and, according to experts in this area outstripped the tastiest olives
Córdoba, celebrated and in the gatomaquia by The Phoenix of Wits, Lope de Vega.

Finally, Don Paco owned the house where he lived, where no warehouse
with ten jars missing of the best in Lucena, a small winery and a
winery with more than twenty pipes between girls and large.

To fill pipes and vats was Don Paco owns a beautiful vineyard, which was almost six bushels
of extension, and although their product was not enough, he used to buy juice time of harvest, or
rather buy grapes, I stepped in the winery of your home.

Was this for the good of the people, to corral where there were chickens,
and paved patio and full of pots of basil, rough, euonymus, Miramelindo
dompedro and other flowers.

Of course for the winery's rustic chores, the racking of the wine and clothing oil, man and
beast came in through a small door that was false in the corral. In sum, the house was just
as comfortable and ladylike, as though it had hired Don Paco, instead of living, who would
not have missed for her to give him four hundred reals a year, clean dust and straw, that is,
the tenant paying the contribution.

Must confess that all this flowering had a terrible against: dependence
Don Andrés Rubio, dependency that was impossible or at least very
difficult to escape.

However useful that men are skilled, and very suitable for all, I can not deny that rarely become
absolutely necessary, notably when they are on top of a man of strong will and irresistible
power whom they serve and whose whim and markets are as posted. Don Andrés Rubio had, so to speak, made
to Don Paco, and so as he had done could be undone. There would be missing for this person or
persons to replace Don Paco, dividing their jobs, if one was not
enough to fill them all with same efficiency and skill