 Truth
is always left alone in the fight. Not by chance was if any of his daughters support him. For
matters outside the rentist address of the house often the opinions were based, some daughters
sided with his dad against sisters. But as looming economic problems, constantly looked to
Retired one side and the other four daughters. D. Christopher, as experienced leader, appealed
to These skirmishes with thousands of tricks to defeat their opponents, or to capitulate in
good condition. One day the girls would wake inspired, and called morocco leather boots were similar
to those seen such and such a city girl, usually Fernanda Estrada-Rosa. D. Christopher immediately
retreated into himself. Fell back and meditated. At night, when dinner, slip into the conversation
the news that he had been in The Innovative (shoe estate). He had been told that the boots of
morocco gave very bad result in Lancia, because moisture. Moreover, D. Nicanor (Medical City),
who happened to there morocco had stated that the weather was dismal as cold and rainy, and by
the feet got caught colds many times later degenerated into galloping consumption, etc. Before,
long before Matthew ended his diatribe against morocco, gutted it four buds with ironic laughter
and ponderous words left confused and sad the poor old man. At other times, the heated imagination of
girls required to come Madrid some very nice coats, which had given news Amalia D. Christopher some
time resisted the attacks, but looking very tight, finally capitulated. His mind, rich in trace
amounts, like Ulysses, he suggested to save a magnificent half money at least. He went to Amalia
and begged to give him your coat for two or three days, so that one of the dressmakers of four
other people do him the same. Exigiole by Of course, secrecy, and knew Mrs. Quiñones storage.
But alas! not kept the perfidious coats who arrived very empaquetaditos of the chaise, and
to offer the anxious looks and wizards of its four owners, it was heralded very high, so poor
of ornamentation and of sewing Tinker.

- These wraps are not made in Madrid - resolutely said Michelle, who was the most nervous four.

-
Daughter, no rave, by God! For where they should be? - Exclaims D. Cristobal affected surprise,
feeling a warmth in her cheeks.

- Do not know, but certainly we can ensure that they have not done
in Madrid.

And the four nymphs begin to spin between your fingers ebony coats,
the students, analyze them with attentive care that is suspended and
terror to his father.

They address meaningful glances, smiling contemptuously spoken in his ear. Meanwhile, fierce Overseas
retired whiskers bristle, shudder with slight tremor which communicates to his lips and then
to the rest of the body.

Finally, those elegant creatures carelessly loose garments mocker
on living room chairs and are to be locked in the cabinet of Jovita.

About half an hour were secret deliberations. D. Christopher waited anxious and haggard, walking
with agitation by the broker as a defendant who awaits the verdict of the jury.

Finally open the door, and criminal searches forward to the faces
of the judges.

These keep quiet attitude, and her lips an enigmatic smile faded vague. Two They immediately put
the blanket and gloves and take to the street. After become the home for a while shaking, with
the broken face and sparkling eyes. Pen refuses to tell the cruel scene which occurred in
the sweet home of the retired. Much rabid cry! Much sarcasm! How hysterical laughter! What
manoteo! What gnashing of chairs! Why so sad exclamations! And in the midst of this horrible
disorder, that heat, capable of infusing struck fear in the heart most serene, four shelters,
because of such carnage, torn, made miserable rags, crawling with ignominy by the ground in
return for his crime.

Apart from these periodic shocks to the wisdom of nature invigorated
nerves a bit unnerved and the retired, the existence of this peaceful
and smooth gliding.

Ni also lacked many painstaking care. His daughters were engaged in putting in contention
everything you need ready and in place: planed clothes, shirts and underwear smelling freshness
ties, made of old clothes, as brand new as if saliesen of the glove, sneakers entered the
house as, the water to wash the feet, Saturday, a cigar at bedtime glass of lemon water in
the morning, etc., etc. All regularly marched with the sweet and mechanical cause much pleasure
to the old. Truth four could well do without bothering too much, especially bearing in mind that
girls were not always inspired. Only the sight of a whimsical hat, or receiving news of the
arrival of a dramatic company, or the announcement that the casino would give a Trust meeting,
sudden burning in their hearts the sacred fire of inspiration, despertábanse his powerful poetic
powers, and flight taken out of the house and threw the the dressmaker, the glove, the perfume,
leaving all signs of their sites agitation and profecticio peculio somewhere. While allying
No outbursts of fantasy with the prose of the details of existence, they suffered some alteration. D.
Christopher in periods of crisis missed less, with regret, a few tweaks. More soon time calmed
the spasms of the mediums and things returned to their being and life was the same orderly
and peaceful course. The name of the former, in order of age, was as follows: Jovita, Micaela, Socorro
and Emily. It was four apparently insignificant creatures, neither beautiful nor ugly, neither
funny nor unhappy, neither too young nor old, neither sad nor smiling. There was nothing in
them that fixed the attention. However, within the home the each character and acquired pronounced
relief. Jovita was sentimental and reserved; Micaela had a violent temper, Socorro was the kettle,
and Emily the most pert.

The two strong concerns that filled the spiritual life of D. Christopher Matthew were reduction
of military contingent and their four daughters to marry, or at least two. The first had a good
way: some time ago came the most conspicuous political leaning to
that view.

Regarding the latter, it hurts us to say that he had no likelihood of class. Or by sacrificing
other amenities to rags, or showing up without limit to the balcony and on field trips or to attend
the soirees of Quinones with a constancy worthy of being awarded, could get up to the present time the
precious gifts of Hymen. When a reckless touched this issue in check, all said that while their
father lived cost very sorry to marry, that it seemed cruel to leave an old man who both wanted
and both were sacrificed by them, etc ... Here came a hearty praise of the spiritual gifts D. Cristobal.
But he was in charge of backing out innocently, showing such desire of being abandoned, so lively
a desire to experience that cruelty, which was already proverbial in Lancia. As if they alone
were not enough to make a fool, poor Matthew helped them effectively, through the eyes metiéndoselas
all marriageable young city.

The weights that the good father was the character, skill, economy and good government of their
daughters had no purpose. So a stranger came to Lancia, D. Christopher no calmed to get acquainted
with him and invited him to act continuous coffee at home and brought
him to the theater to his box and snack to the field and accompanied
him to see the relics the cathedral and the tower and the natural
history cabinet, all the curiosities, in short, which contained the
population.

The audience attending smiling, sly look at him leaf through, already had repeated portion of
times without success. The only one that did have a boyfriend for three or four years was Jovita.
So it was also the one that plunged the highest. Heartthrob stranger was a student that was celebrated
as the last years of the race. Been completed, he left his people and, forgetting his promises
of marriage, contracted with a rich palette. The others had not reached that lofty level of
the hierarchy of love. Vague inclinations, dreams of fifteen days, a bone down the street, nothing
between two dishes. Gradually they were coming over the cold disappointment. Although they had
not lost hope, were fatigued. The thought fixed, only that the embargo on so long, was becoming
a painful nail in the forehead. But D. Christopher or surrendered or passed through his imagination
to capitulate. Always believed blindly in the husband of daughters, and announced with the same
security as the Old Testament prophets of the coming the Messiah.

- As my daughters get married, instead of spending the summer in Sarrió, where are kept the same Lancia
cloud that, I'll go Rodillero to fresh air and fishing robalizas .-- Hear, Michelle, do not
be so lively, woman ... Understand that your husband does not have to like these geniuses;
want to answer you with reasons ...

- My husband is content with what you give - answered the girl making
a funny nerve moue of disdain.

- What if he gets angry? - Wondered
Emilita malicious tone.

- It has two jobs: one, the other the angry
and casual.

- What if you walk with the package?

- It will keep
well!

Would be able to poison!

- Jesus, the horror - the three mermaids cried laughing.

One husband scenario, that being abstract out all the time in conversation with same reality
as if it were flesh and blood and was in the adjoining room.

The starting now typing on the piano was Emilita, the most musical
of the four sisters.

The other three were on their feet, holding the sleeve of his coat
of many other young people; as it were, into the breach.

The count ran a few steps with Fernanda Rosa Estrada-coming arm in
arm with a friend.

Apparently it did not want to dance. It was the girl who had more sheen in the city for its beauty
and elegance and her dowry. The only child of D. Juan Estrada-Rosa, the richest banker and
businessman of the province.

Tall, plump, dark brown, good and strong features, eyes large, very black, looking disdainfully,
imposing, graceful figure enhanced by a costume luxurious and elegant that it was the amazement and
envy of the girls in the population. There seemed Indian lady but transported from the aristocratic
salons of the court.

- Fernanda How elegant! - Said the Count quietly, bowing involvement.

Beauty hardly deigned to smile, extending a little lower lip with a slight sneer.

- How are you, Luis? - Said extending his hand with marked indifference.

-
Not as good as you ... but in the end, I have visited.

- Nothing
more than passing?

... Sorry.

I will most perfectly, no you're wrong - said in the same dismissive tone, without looking at his
face.

- How not to be everywhere that show the star Sirius?

- Exemption,
boy, do not understand astronomy.

- Sirius is the brightest star
in the sky.

That's what everybody knows.

- Well, I did not know ... You see, as I am a paddle!

- Not true, but is fine modesty, coupled with the beauty and talent.

-
No, if I know full well that I have no talent.

Do not beat yourself up to tell me.

- Daughter, you express just the opposite ...

The dismissive tone
of Fernanda was entering a bit of bitterness.

In the count's, paused, ceremonious, cautioned slight hint of irony.

-
Come on, then you have understood backwards.

- Some of it has been
forever.

- Wow, what a gallant! - Said the little pale.

- Whenever
you thought you could tell something unpleasant - was quick to rectify
the Earl, warned by the change in appearance of the idea crossed his
mind.

- Thank you.

I believe your words as they deserve.

- You would do wrong not sincere esteem ... Also, I need not tell
you how much you're worth.

That's what everybody knows.

- Thank you.

Are you tired of playing?

- It hurts a little grinding.

- Take it off.

- Are all?

- Those
who hurt you, son.

Ave Maria!

- With what indifference you say!

You do not mind anything, of course?

- I always feel the ills of others.

- The neighbor! What horror!

Was not aware of having already reached the category of neighbor.

- What is it, boy, the honors come when least expected.

In spite of the flippant and even aggressive tone, Fernanda did not move the site, taking always
arm in arm to the friend, who did not open his lips.

By looking a little, might note that the heiress was very nervous. With his foot was tapping on
the floor, clutched in his hand with the tissue contractions alive and his lips trembled so
almost imperceptible. Some Arabs beautiful eyes marked a paler circle than usual. He's interested
in boxing.

The Count de Onis had been of her boyfriends that lasted longer. Appearing Fernanda in society, and even
before, when she was a zagalita the maid was going to school was her figure, elegance and
above all the threat of the six million that were to fall, walking time, in her lap, an explosion
of enthusiasm. There were no more or less handsome young or wealthy on his own initiative or
by the insinuations of his family is not resolved to pasearle the street to meet her at the exit
of the school, to send little notes and compliments tell on the ride. De Sarria, snow and
other towns in the province also attended, under the pretext of the fairs, some greedy. The girl,
boasts with such compliance, drunk with incense, he did not rest point taking and releasing
boyfriends. It was rare that the gallant lasted more than a couple of months in his grace.
In reality none were in a position to deserve it. In Lancia and the rest of the province who
have had their finances provided dowry. If any existed, was not qualified by age to marry so
young bud. Would be some Indian tropical damaged by the heat, or rustic and solitary mayorazgo
those living in their ancestral homes. Without his father warned, the she understood that none
suited him admirably, but he enjoyed flirting with everyone, worship of youth becoming laciense.
Among the latter was, however, a young man to which no city girl had dared to raise his eyes
up with desires then marriage. It was the Count de Onis. Because of its high ranking, most
respected in the provinces where be taxed to the nobility a cult
that reveals the villain and the servant under the coat of bourgeois
with its large income from the apartment of his life and even the
mystery and silence its ancient palace, seemed to dwell in the upper
atmosphere, sheltered from the arrows of all indigenous beauties.

So precisely because he was born in the bosom of Fernanda a desire, first vaguely, then live and
yearning, of surrender. This is very human, and totally feminine needs no explanation. At the
bottom of his soul, the daughter of Rosa Estrada-felt inferior to the Count de Onis. However,
such was the adulation he had heard in some time, as shining the bright scattered about his life
dad money, which might well aspire to make her husband. If you did not think so well, at least figuratively
speaking thought the count, behind, with some disdain and familiarity affected ahead. In Lancia,
as in all small capitals, boys and girls used first-name basis. The known since childhood and have
perhaps played on the tour together authorized it. The Count de Onis had never crossed the floor
with Fernanda, although stumble every moment on the street. However, when they met for the first
time in the party of the de Mere, he gave a beautiful round and deleted your title. Luis here, Luis
beyond: seemed about to eat his name. To him the confidence was a little surprised, not dislike.
No one was hurt tutear heard by a pretty lady. Despite the concentrated nature shy of the count
and his little womanizing, Fernanda he soon contrived to make her boyfriend or at least to make such
a move by the public eye. Who found this dating perfectly justified. In Lancia had another
husband or another woman to Fernanda Count. The distance between them was retrospective, was in the
ancestors. The population believed that, for the sake of beauty, money and education of the
young bright, Count de Onis was in the case of forgetting the two
hundred and farmhands who had preceded them.

About a year lasting relationships. The couple were seen in the gathering of the ladies de Mere.
D. Juan Estrada, Rosa, in the words of his close friends, was very pleased. Several times had
suggested to the county to enter into the house, but he had not understood or had pretended not
to understand him. Fernanda is clearly suggested by one day. He escaped as could compromise. Was
it shyness? Was it pride? The same Fernanda did not realize it. But this book helped rekindle
their affection and longing. Suddenly, when least expected, when the public began to wonder
why the wedding was delayed, those cortáronse relationships. Were cut without scandal, of a
diplomatic and secretive, therefore he did More than a month that did not exist when the population
was not yet aware and friends they were kidding. The fact there was strong feeling, was mentioned
in all gatherings to infinity. Never could figure out what had been, or even which of the two
corresponded the initiative of this break. If you asked the count, said flatly that Fernanda
had left, but went too hard in this statement that did not begin to doubt their sincerity. The
heir-Rosa Estrada, without showing anything in particular, confirmed the words of her boyfriend
with surly tone he used talking about it, as well as to guide word. Because they followed the case,
if not as often, quite: both came to the gathering where they met. In addition, Fernanda, shortly
after, he began attending to the Sunday soirees at the home of Quiñones. But never again resumed
their broken relationships. Attendees suspended breath and put his whole soul into the eyes
if, as Now, former boyfriends encountered and chatted for a while. "Back on track? Will, finally
wedding? The disappointment came immediately to see the indifference with which it departs.

When I went to answer the last words of the proud heir, the Count's eyes, shedding a distracted
gaze around the room, they met others who had stuck into shining
and jealous.

She reached her friend and said with a forced smile:

- How badly are you trying, Fernanda! As always, of course ... I,
however, you know ... the same devoted idolater.

Until now.

- I feel that this devotion does not cause me cold or hot - she replied without taking a step away.

The
count gave him shrugging his shoulders in resignation and saying:

- More I'm sorry!

Sorting dancing partners, who had begun the quadrille, came back to where he was the mistress of
the house. Beside it was at that moment the famous Manuel Antonio, a of the most noteworthy
at the time that we historian. He was known thus the nickname the fag Sierra as its name.

This
is enough to know somewhat what to expect regarding their moral properties and physical. Manuel
Antonio was not young. Frisaría in fifty years, disguised with effort heroic by any battery known
then Lancia cosmetics, which were not many do very refined. A rudimentary wig, some false teeth
fitted incorrectly, a little black on the eyebrows and lipstick, much patchouli and a fancy dress
appropriate to highlight the waste of her beauty. It had been wonderful, a rare perfection of face
and figure. Tall, slim, slim, good features, tiny, blonde hair, fine, falling into graceful
curls, rosy cheeks and high-pitched voice. From this set gorgeous was only a shadow where he could
guess. The back was arched upright; the beautiful curls were gone like a happy dream, some unseemly
wrinkles that furrowed forehead, and the row of pearls, which he held his mouth, had become yellow
bone race, rickety, that time and the dentist was inducted awkwardly replaced. Finally, the
small silky mustache had thickened considerably, it was white bristly, unruly, not enough
dye and cosmetics to keep presentable.

What a pain to the beautiful hermaphrodite Lancia and also for friends who had known him in
the glory of his grace!
The spirit remained as young as ten and eight years. It was the same
to be passionate and tender, sweet at times, angry and terrible other,
marching to the breath of his whims, languid living in idleness