 Lo
here a very different animal from the other, 'said the dwarf of Saturn and Sirius put the pretense
animal in the palm of the hand. The passengers and sailors tripulacioon, which is believed
caught by a storm, and thought they aground on a Baxi, are all in motion; sailors caught barrels
of wine, toss them at the hand of Micromegas, and after they are thrown; seize the geometries of
quarts circle, their sectors, and Lapp, and alight on the fingers of Sirius: Finally both were
busy, they felt it shaking a thing that beetles in the fingers, and it was a club with an iron
tip nailed him a foot in the index finger: the itching made him believe that the body had become
something The creature that I had on hand, but could not suspect anything at first, as its
microscope barely enough to distinguish a ship of a whale could not make visible a entecillo as inconspicuous
as a man. I do not want censure of any vanity here, but please vainglorious people to stop the
consideration here, and consider that if ordinary height of a man five feet of the king, but
do not lump in the ground than in a ball ten feet in circumference did an animal that had a hundred
avos thousand of an inch high. Let us imagine a substance that could lead the globe terraquueeo
in hand, and had bodies similar to ours, and it is most likely that there many of these substances,
and I gather that is what the functions of war, we have won two or three small place that has since
been restoring force would think.

I have no doubt that if any captain of grenadiers shall read this
book, have your troop put hats two feet higher, but I warn you that,
however you do, always will be the and his soldiers about infinitely
small.

iQue wonderful mana you need our philosopher had Sirius for
managing to descry the atoms of which I speak!

Quando Hartsoeker Leuwenhoek and saw, or believed that Vian for the first time, the seed of
which we are formed, there was not nearly as amazing discovery. iQue Micromegas like that of
when he saw these razors wiggle, when examine all their movements,
and continued its operations! iCom cried! icon who retired extension
cord to his partner of one of its microscopes journey!

I'm watching them, they said both together; behold as loaded as baxan and rise. So they said,
and they shook hands the joy of seeing objects as new, and the fear of losing sight. Saturnino
passing of a trust to the opposite end of credulity, it figures that he was busy watching
in the propagation. Ha, he said the Saturnino, I have caught nature "red-handed." However Enganabanle
appearances, and so very frequeentemente happens, when one uses and when do not use microscopes.

CHAPTER
VI.

From what I happened to men.

Very best observer Micromegas his dwarf, he saw clearly that the atoms were spoken, and it pointed
out to his partner, which with the embarrassment of having deceived about the article the generation,
unwilling to believe that such kind of bugs could communicate ideas.

He had the gift of tongues is not less than Sirius, and not hearing
about our atoms, supposed who did not speak: then? as the organs were
to have a voice as subtle bodies, or that they had to say?

To talk is essential to consider and if thought, had something which
was equivalent to the soul: and attribute something equivalent to
a kind soul so base, is to much nonsense.

The Syrian told him:? For You thought not, little does, which were falling in love? ? Do you
think to love one without thinking, without saying a word, or at least not make themselves understood?
, Or suppose it is easiest thing to a child a syllogism? My one and one I seem impenetrable mysteries.
I dare ya, 'said the dwarf, to believe or deny any thing, try to look these insects, and runs
later. iQue my place! Micromegas answered, and drawing a tixeras, trim her nails, and short of what
one of her thumb made the point a kind of big horn, like a huge funnel, and put the fee at
an ear, the circumference funnel took the ship and all its crew, and the weakest voice in the
fibers were introduced circular one, so that, through their industry, the philosopher of heard up
there well the buzz of our insects abaxo here, and within hours was able to distinguish words, and
understanding after the French. So did the dwarf, but not so easily. Spot grew the astonishment of
the two travelers, on hearing about quite a few mites reason, and this game seemed inexplicable
nature. Well it goes that he was dying the dwarf and Syrian desire to engage in conversation
with the atoms, but the dwarf is feared his thunderous voice, and even more of Micromegas, thundered
to the mites without being overheard. They tried, as to diminish its force, and it got a toothpick
in his mouth very tiny, very sharp as he was going to stop next to the ship. He put the dwarf on
the Syrian his knees and one on top of a ship with the crew; Baxo head and spoke very quietly,
and after all these precautions and many more, said the following: Invisible bugs the right hand
of the Creator is pleased to produce in the abyss of the infinitely small, I manifest myself worthy
bless because impenetrable secrets. Perhaps no one is worthy of yourselves in my court, but
I despise anyone, and I give you my protection.

If there has been amazing in the world, none has reached the that this was heard to say, unable
to hit upon which he left. The chaplain pray the prayers of spells, and disowned voted sailors,
and forged a philosophers of the ship, but for most envisioned systems, were unable to hit upon
who was speaking to them. And he told them in brief the dwarf of Saturn, which was less Micromegas
is stronger voice with which people were talking, and his journey to Saturn: I inform the gentleman
who was Micromegas, and having compassion they were so young, I wonder if they had always lived
in a state as bordering on nothing, and that was what they were doing in a balloon which appeared
to be peculiar to whales, if they were happy, if they had soul, if
multiplied, and a thousand other questions of this sort.

Dudasen angry that if I had a soul, a reasoning of the band, more daring than others, the participant
observed a finlets adapted to a quarter of a circle, measured with two triangles, and the third
told him so:? With what you believe, sir knight, that because you have two thousand yards from head
to toe, you are some ...? gone a thousand yards! exclaimed the dwarf, it is not wrong or an inch.
iCon I measured the atom! icon that is geometry, and he knows my size and I that I can not
see without the aid of a microscope, not even yours! Yes, that I have measured he said the physical,
and also measure your giant companion.

Admitiose the proposal, and Acosto His Excellency on the ground, because they stood their head
was higher than the clouds, and our philosophers they planted a tree in a very large site or Torres
Quevedo been appointed by name, but I do not dare to lie on the great respect that I have the
ladies, and then by a series of triangles, connected to each other, guessing that the person
was a mancebito mediate hundred and twenty thousand feet of a king.

Micromegas then burst out in these reasons: I see that you never have to judge things its apparent
magnitude. O God, who gave intelligence to some substances such despicable seem infinitely
small costs no more to your omnipotence that the infinitely large; and if it is possible that other
creatures smaller than them, perhaps will have a higher intelligence that of those huge animals
I've seen in the sky, and with one foot would cover the entire globe where I am now.

Answered one of the philosophers who could not believe it, but you have any doubt, he had loved
much more intelligent boys than men, and told him not fables that we have forsaken Virgilio on bees,
but what Swammerdam discovered, and what has dissected Reaumur. Instructed him then there are
animals that are about bees, which are the bees with respect man, and what was the Syrian same with
respect to those so stout of animals speaking, and what are these big animals compared with
other substances to the quale seem imperceptible atoms.

Gradually the conversation was becoming interesting, Micromegas and said so.

CHAPTER VII.

Conversations with men.

O atoms intelligent, in whom it pleased the eternal Being in showing their art and power no doubt
that your globe PLEASURE purest happy, as having so little substance
and looking all spirit, you ought to use your life in love and think
that is true life of the spirits.

In part I have seen no real happiness, but I am sure this is his
mansion.

Encogieronse shoulders to hear this argument all the philosophers;
and more naive one sincerely confessed, except a very few of residents
very little appreciated, everything else is a cafile crazy, perverse
and unfortunate.

More material we have, he said, which is necessary to do evil, if evil comes from matter, and
more intelligence, if it comes from intelligence. ? Par example You know that when this one
hundred thousand fools of our species, who wear hats, are killing a hundred thousand other animals
covered with a turban, or dying at their hands, and so is style throughout the land, immemorial
time here? The Syrian terribly shocked, and asked the reason for such horrible strife between
so vile little creatures. It is, he said the philosopher, a few scraps of land sizes as your foot,
not because neither one of the millions who die request even a lump of that piece, it is to
know whether to belong to a certain man Sultan called or another surname Cesar, do not know why.
Neither has been and never see the little corner of land that is in dispute, nor least almost
none of the animals that has been reciprocally are killed either by the person who kills the animal.

iDesventurados!
Sirius exclaimed indignantly:? as you can imagine so mad frenzy? Starters come to give me three
steps, with three kicks estruxar ridiculous this whole swarm of murderers. You do not take that
job, he responded, which left them till toil ruin. Know that within ten years in life fails,
the tenth of these wretches, and that even without drawing the sword, almost everyone carries
the hunger, fatigue, or the distemper, apart from that it is they who deserve punishment, but
the idle ruthless, which stuck sent in his cabinet, as they digest the food, slaughter a million
men, and are then solemn thanksgiving to God. I felt the walker moved to pity the wretched lineage
human in so many contradictions found qual.

As you, he said to these gentlemen, the short number of scholars who certainly kill anyone
for money, I pray you tell me quale are your occupations. Dissected flies, "replied the philosopher,
measured lines, combined numbers, we agree on two or three points that mean, and divided on
two or three thousand who do not understand. It occurred to Sirius and ask questions Saturnino
atoms thinkers, to know about that they were consistent. ? Far is, he said this, since the star
Canicula to the big Geminis? They answered together: Thirty-two degrees and one-half .--? Quanto
far from here the moon? - Sixty semi-diameter of the earth .--? Quanto weighs your ayre? Taken
if any thought, but all they told him that weighed nine hundred times less the same volume of
water lighter, and nineteen thousand times less than gold. Astonished the little elves urgently
Saturn with their answers, I was tempted to believe that those were magic ones to whom a quarter
of an hour before the intelligence had been denied.

Micromegas finally said to them: Once you know how time what is outside of you no doubt that you
will know better yet what is inside: say they know what is your soul and how are your ideas. Philosophers
spoke all at the same time, as before, but all were of a different opinion. I quote the most
ancient to Aristotle, one pronounce the name of Descartes, that the Malebranche, that that of
Leibnitz, Locke and the other. The old peripatetic he said with confidence: The soul is a entelechia,
a reason under the qual is power being what it is, so what Aristotle says expressly, pag. 633
of the edition of Louvre: Entelexeia esti, etc. I do not understand the Greek, 'said the giant.
Nor I, "replied the plowman philosophical. ?

Well, that citais, "replied the Syrian, in that Aristotle in Greek? Because what you do not understand,
"said the sage, it must include language that does not know.

I take the Cartesian thread, and said: The soul a pure spirit in the womb has received all
the metaphysical ideas, and so leave the has been refined to go to school and relearn what we knew so
well and never gonna know. For these prospered, the animal responded eight leagues, who could
both remember when I was in your soul the womb of your mother, if had to be so ignorant Quando
were your man with a beard. ? Y you mean by spirit? ? That's what I ask? he said the discurridor,
I have no idea none of it: they say that it is not subject .--? And you know what is matter? That
if you answered man. That exemplo stone is brown, and such a figure,
has three dimensions, and is serious and divisible.

That's right, he said on Sirius? But that thing that you think divisible, serious and dark, I'll
say it is? Some attributes see but? The backbone of these attributes you know? No, he said
the other. Then you do not know that something is the matter.

Addressing Mr. Micromegas then another wise beyond his thumb had, asked who was his soul, and
he was doing. Any thing, "replied the philosopher Malebranche; It is God who does everything
for me, I see it in everything I do in everything, and the one who all cooperation does not mine.
Both mating does not exist, "replied the philosopher of Sirius. ? And you, friend told him to Leibniz
who were there, you say? ? That is your soul? A pointer Relox, he said the Leibnizian, which
indicates the hours while you touch my body, or, if you will, touches the soul as the body
signals; or my soul is the mirror of the universe, and my body mirror
frame: this is clear.

Estabalos hearing a sectarian Locke, and when I touch him speak, he said: I do not feed, I know
is that I never thought of as not through my senses. That has substance immaterial and intelligent,
I do not doubt, but God can not communicate intelligence to matter, so I doubt it. Respect
the eternal power, and I do not limit your responsibility; not saying anything, and I stick
to believe that there are many more things possible than you think.

Sirius smiled the animal, and it seemed that this was not the less sane, and if there were no
been for the great disproportion, would have embraced the dwarf from Saturn to sectarian Locke.
Unfortunately the band was in a animalucho with a bonnet on her head, which cutting the wire
to all philosophers, he said that he knew the secret, which was in the Sum Santo Tomas, and
he looked from head to toe with the two inhabitants of heaven, they
support their persons, their worlds, their suns and stars, everything
had been brought to man.

Al hear such nonsense, our two travelers had to fall over each other, killing of that inextinguishable
laughter which, according to Homer, share the lot of the Gods, came and went their stomach
and back, and these comings and goings of the ship fell off one of Sirius in the pants pocket
of Saturnino. Buscaronle both long time after the crew encountered, and got into the ship as best
they could. Grabbed the Syrian to aradorcillos, and speak with great kindness, because it was
something mohino to see that some infinitely small had an almost infinitely large vanity.
Prometioles to compose a book of philosophy very finely written letter for your use, and that
the would see why of all things, and effect before leaving gave them the promised book, which
led to the Academy of Sciences Paris. Quand le Mas opened the secretary, it was found that was
all white, and said: ha, and I boasted to me.

End of story Micromegas.

* * * * *

HISTORY

A GOOD BRAMA.

       

In my journeys I found an old rut, sugeto very sane, educated, discreet,
and with this rich, which made him more sane, because, as he did not
lack anything, did not need to cheat anyone.

Three women governed their very beautiful family, whose husband was,
and when not recreated with their wives, were occupied in philosophy.

He lived with his house that was beautiful, well-jeweled and pleasant gardens, an old India,
blessed, silly, and very poor.

Díxome one day the rut: I never been born. Ask why, and he replied: Quarenta years I am studying,
and all I have lost forty; taught to others, and do not know everything.
