 Not I'm
looking for imaginary contrast, I remember the feeling aroused in my mind, in such circumstances,
in such an hour, in such a place, the sight of those young men, dressed in mourning and I like
all widows. From time to time, turned his face to the city and only differed on the far limit
of the meadows, a little dark line of boulevards and the tips of your bell. I asked myself what
had I done to remain there so long and how it was possible to consume me there without dying then
I heard the touch of vespers, and the ringing of bells, accompanied by a thousand memories, I I
was saddened and called severe compromises. I thought it was necessary to return before at
night, locked up again, and harder still undertook the river road.

Returned, and was not paid, but quite the contrary, more excited by that wandering during several
hours outdoors, through roads, breathing in a warm environment under the rough and biting
action of the April sun. Felt a kind of intoxication, was saturated extraordinary emotions that expressed
frankly in my face, in the aspect of my whole person.

- What are you, my dear son? - My aunt said to me.

- He walked very quickly - I replied with some diversion.

I looked again, and with a wave of anxious mother brought me under fire from his eyes clear and deep.
Disturbed me horribly and I could not stand the sweetness of that
look or the penetration of tenderness do not know what possessed me
confused with a vague question unbearable that she expressed.

- Let
me, I beg you, dear aunt - I said.

And got rushed to my room. I found it illuminated by the slanting rays of the sun west and was
as dazzled by the glow of that warm, reddish light that invaded as a wave of life. However, I
felt more at ease seeing me alone and I looked in the window waiting healthy when the torrent
of clarity that would be extinguished. They were gradually reddening high walls bell, the noise
became more visible through the air more humid, broad bands were formed on Fire the decline to
the side where it rose above the houses the masts of ships moored to the riverbank.

So I stayed up the night, wondering what I was experiencing, and not knowing what to answer hearing,
seeing, feeling, stifled by the pulsations of an extraordinary vitality, over exciting, stronger,
more active, more incomprehensible than ever. He wished that someone was there, but why? Did not
know to explain it. And who? I knew even less. If there had to choose a confidant of all beings,
then I was more dear, me would have been impossible to name any.

Only when there were a few minutes to extinguish the last glow of day I out. I crept through the
streets he knew were less frequent to places Boulevard where the grass sprouted in complete
solitude. I crossed the square where the first ringing sounds of the military tattoo. Then the sound
of the horns away and I followed the march distance, the winding streets, guided by the echo of
them clearer or more confusing as the width of the space where the sound was displayed through
the air, in complete stillness that night. Alone, completely alone in the blue twilight descending
from heaven on elm foliage studded with light, in light of the first stars that filtered through
the branches of trees planted on the reserve sparks from the leaves, walking along the wide
avenue that listening to rhythmic music as well and letting myself be guided by their cadences.
He was keeping time, mentally hear humming when I stopped, I was in the soul as a movement that
continues, and became a kind of rhythm and melody on which involuntarily adapted a letter.
I no longer have the memory of the words not the case, nor the meaning of the phrases I only know
that this singular breath out me first as a simple rhythm, then words rhymed, and that this
internal measure suddenly led not only by the symmetry of the syllables but by the double repeat
or combinations of some of them are deaf or sound, corresponding and doing some eco the others.
I would not tell you that this was a poetic, but the fact is that the combination of the words
sound was much like the verses.

At the same time I got to that point in my reflections, appeared before
me, in the same street that I ran, our longtime friend, Mr. D'Orsel
together their two daughters.

So close they could not avoid meeting, and the same concern I would have prevented me dominated.
I was, then, face to face with the quiet eyes and the pale face of Magdalena.

- How do here? "- He said.

I still can hear his voice net, air, with an accent of the south that
made me shudder.

Mechanically took the hand I lay, a small hand, fine and fresh, cold as me given the notion
that burned mine. We were so close that I made out with accuracy his face and I brushed away
the idea that in turn should see me as I her.

- Do you have caused fear? - Added.

The change of tone in his voice I knew that my horrible embarrassment was noticeable, and as
nothing on earth would have agreed to remain a single second in this
impossible situation, I stammered something so out of reason, that
I chickened out, I lost my head and giddy, unwisely I noticed a leak.

That night, deserted of my aunt's room and locked myself in my room for fear of being caught. There,
without thinking anything, either unintentionally, as a man absolutely
fascinated by a company that both scares and seduces him, in a row,
without rereading, almost without hesitation, I wrote a lot of unexpected
things that seemed to fall from the sky.

He went to way too much burden left my heart, whose weight was relieved as it would get rid of.

He
took me to feverish work very late at night. At last it seemed that there was completed an
unavoidable task, all irritated fibers relaxed, and already at dawn
when the birds awoke, I slept prey to the most delicious languor.

Oliver the next day I spoke of my meeting with her cousins, to my embarrassment, my escape.

- You do mystery - told me - and you're wrong. If I had some secret I share with you.

I hesitated a moment if you say the truth or not. It was as simple and it would have been positively
rather than hide it, but my statement opposing a thousand obstacles real or imaginary I presented
it as impossible. What terms would I let him know how I felt some time ago no one would have
suspected?

How to speak, in cold blood, those strange modesty that obscure the light of day, which did
not support me or outside review, and like a fresh wound and required not too sensitive to be
touched even with look?

How this crisis sensitivity refer inexplicable and that sort of enchanted evening written testimony
which I found in the morning?

I replied with a lie for several days before I felt sick, the heat of the day before I had
caused a kind of vertigo and Magdalena begged to excuse me the sad figure I made the find.

- Oliver continued .-- Magdalena ?...-- But we have no accounts to settle with Magdalena ... There
are things that do not concern ...

Saying that she smiled in a singular way and gave me a look of the most pervasive and more
alive. For how hard he tried to read what was in my soul, I was pretty sure discovered nothing,
but realizing that something was looking for, and although not quite figure out what could be the
feelings, very vain, which I supposed Oliverio, seeing the object of such research and reflected
a suspicion dawned on me that filled me with trepidation.

It was so perfectly naive and ignorant, that the first awakening of
certain impulses in the middle my naiveté I was marked by a troubled
look on my aunt and misleading and curious Oliverio smile.

I just watched and I felt the desire to find out the cause of that surveillance. It was a false
suspicion that for the first time in my life made me blush. I do not know indefinable instinct
what my heart swelled with an emotion entirely new. Suddenly, a strange light shone child that
verb, the first thing we all conjugated in French or studying Latin grammar. Two days after that warning
by a wise mother and a comrade emancipated, was not far to admit - was therefore full my mind
of scruples, curiosities and concerns, - that my aunt and Oliver were right suspecting that
I was in love, but whose? ...

Next Sunday evening we all met as usual in the living room of my aunt. When Magdalena was felt
some trepidation, I had not seen since Thursday last evening. It was clear that she expected
an explanation, but I was unable to feeding it and shut up. I was terribly confused and distracted.
Oliver - who did not believe that there no reason to be charitable with me - he grilled me with
his epigrams. Was harmless what he said, but since many days before, was so extraordinary my
irritability nerves than anything hurt me and caused me suffering unprovoked. I was sitting next
Magdalena because of a habit acquired without the will of either
had given rise to it under any circumstances.

Suddenly felt the desire to change site. Why? He could not have said it. It seemed, simply, that
the light of lamps and that bothered me I would be better elsewhere. When Magdalena raised low
eyes was watching the game and saw me sitting across the table, just in front of her, said
with an air of surprise: "Well ...?» But our eyes and found something extraordinary had noticed
in mine that slightly disturbed and prevented finish.

About one and a half ago because he lived near her and for the first
time that night I looked as you look when you want to see.

Magdalena was lovely, more charming than not said, very different
than I had considered until that time.

In addition he was ten and eight years. Sudden appreciation that, far from light my spirit little
by little, amid second taught me everything I know about her and myself. It was like a final revelation
completing those of the preceding days, combining them in a lot of
evidence and I think explaining them all.

VI

A few weeks later, Mr. D'Orsel moved to a thermal bath establishment claiming health reasons and
recreation, but in reality there are special reasons for which I found out later. Magdalena and Julia
went with him.

That separation - of which had any regrets as a tear - I freed in a big hurry. I could no longer
live near always restrained by Magdalena the invincible shyness that
his presence was causing.

Fled from it. The fact of looking face face was for me a true rudeness of audacity. The man was
quiet when I I was so disturbed, finding it so perfectly beautiful, when I had many reasons
for recognize nasty to my college and my suit look gawky farmer, invaded my be a humbling sense
of inferiority that filled me with distrust, transforming the easiest familiarity submission
without sweetness, with hints in vile bondage of slavery. In a word, Magdalena scared me seduce me dominated
before: the heart has the the same naive faith, all faiths and passionate start.

The day that followed the departure of Magdalena I hurried to go to
the streets of the Carmelites.

Oliver was in a room, small, lost in a large hall of the hotel. Ordinarily would I look for when
entering the school, called him from the garden to come down. I remembered that at that hour,
almost every morning I answered another voice, Magdalena looked out the window and greeted
me, I thought of the excitement it caused me that interview quotidian, before without charm or
danger and then had become a real pain, and entered, boldly, almost happy, as if something in me
had to be fearful and guarded, take their vacation.

The house was empty. The servants came and went, as amazed, they too, have not as reported. They had opened
all the windows and the May sun was playing freely in the rooms, where everything was in place.
It was not neglect, was the absence. I sighed. I figured that that absence would last. Two
months. The deadline soon seemed too short and I seemed very long. I would have liked - both
experienced The need to belong - that he never had so meager breath.

I returned the other day and the next and found the same serenity and the same security. I toured the
entire the house, I visited the garden path by path, Magdalena was everywhere. I dared to entertain
freely with his memory. I looked at the window of her room and she saw your lovely face. I heard his
voice on the park rides and I started humming to find that the murmur echo sing songs that he
liked the outdoors, the wind was so fluid and were accompanied by the rustling of the leaves. I
saw a thousand things in memory of her that I was either ignored or not I was impressed, certain
gestures that being nothing were charming, gracious recognized the habit he had to twist her
hair on the neck and black tie through beam forming. The smallest particularities his suit or his
gestures, exotic aroma that perfumed and I would have to recognize with closed eyes, even the
colors he had taken of late, it was so blue well and both brought out the clear whiteness of
her skin.

All that revived in my memory with amazing clarity, but create excitement very different from that
which occurred when I she was present, a sort of nostalgia that I was pleased to caress, sweet
memory kind of things that were not there. Gradually, without much heat, but with everlasting
tenderness saturated me those reminiscences, the only attractive almost alive than she was, and
had not yet been fifteen days since the departure of Magdalena when
that memory invasive never left my mind for a moment.

One afternoon I went to the room of Oliver and, as always, I passed the Magdalena. Many times
were found wide open the door without me came the desire to enter. That afternoon I stopped short,
and after much hesitation consistent with scruples as new as all other sentiment I felt, I yielded
to a temptation and entered.

The room was nearly dark. Barely distinguishable furniture, antique wood tawny color and gilding
of the marquetry shone faintly. Sober-colored fabrics, floating white muslin to another set
of pale colors and sweet, permeating of peaceful seclusion in a soft twilight gloom. The warm
air coming saturated with the scent of garden flowers, but were dominated by a subtle perfume, more
alive than others, that impressed me more than anyone to perceive, remember Magdalena unequivocal.
I went to the window: she was in the habit of leaning Magdalena.

I plopped down on a armchair in which she used to sit and lay there a few minutes more live prey
anxiety, despite holding me by the desire to enjoy the novelty of
which seemed impressions exquisite.

Do not see anything, for anything in the world would have dared to lay hands on any of the objects
around me, motionless, attentive only to penetrate the candid emotion
that I felt convulsively shaken my heart, and his movements were so
abrupt that instinctively squeezing my chest with both hands to stifle
uncomfortable as possible beats.

Suddenly sounded in the corridor the dry sound of the footsteps of Oliver and I hardly had time
to slide to the door before he arrived.

- I expected - just told me to persuade me that I had not seen leaving the room Magdalena or that
no objection was the fact.

He was dressed very elegantly, his tie knotted with abandon and costume, made of light material,
so loose as was his desire to wear clothing, especially in summer. He had a gait as unwrapped,
in a manner so free to move, dress clothes floating at certain times
all in all looked like a young foreigner, English or American.

This was one of the attractions of his person, and I, who have had occasion to appreciate his
fine qualities as well their weaknesses, can not say I put too many
claims in the manner of dress, although he did real studio.

He believed that the composition of the indumentum, the choice color, the proportions of an outfit
were very worthy thing to be taken into account a man of good taste, but once learned that combination,
and did not think about it, and would have been him great injustice, to suppose that her attire
more time to worry the need for care ingenious that it became.

- Come to the boulevards - said taking me by the arm .-- I want you to accompany me and it is almost
overnight.

He walked quickly and pulled me as if I were pressed for time. Took on the way shorter, crossed the
deserted avenues and took me right to where they are used summer stroll in the evening. There was
a lot of people, everything a small town Ormesson could muster as the worldly, rich and elegant.
Oliver always walked hurry, distracted look, so absorbed and excited by secret impatience forgot
that I was at his side. Suddenly slowed the pace, relied more on my arm as if to seek support
and moderate to master certain effervescence which tended to overflow. I realized I had reached the
end of an inquiry.

Two women were heading towards us along the edge of the avenue, mysteriously warm by the shadow
of the elms. One was young and remarkably beautiful, my recent experience
I had a taste for those definitions and delicate and I was right.

I noticed on the way to tread with light step and cut the grass that
grew at the foot of trees, like walking on a carpet lint flexible.

We stared with less Magdalena grace, but with a panache that it never would have dared to afford
and still away, and preparing to answer to a very special smile to greet Oliver. This greeting
was changed as close as possible, with grace and a bit of neglect,
and after the young blonde's face, still smiling, was hidden by the
lace hat, my friend turned to me his, and with an accent audacious
question said:

- Do you know Madame de X. ..?

We tried one person who spoke a little in the world to which I accompanied my Aunt sometimes.
Nothing was unusual in that Oliver would have been presented, and naively told him.

- Precisely - he said - danced with her one night last winter and from ...

Interrumpiose, and after a brief silence he continued:

- My dear
Sunday, and you know that I have no father or mother, I am only nephew
my uncle, and that part I do not expect more affection that is due
me as a relative, ie very small portion of the estate of tenderness
that right belongs to my two cousins. I have, Therefore, the need
to be loved, in a different form that of a college friend ... Do not
protest; I'm very grateful for the commitment that you show me and
keeps me no doubt, come what you want