 

But what causes admiration is with much pride, even though only three hundred have or four men to take
up arms, because every year attempt to decimate the Mamalucos, and often also with Guaycurús
broken and destroyed.

Another small reason not retract them to be Christians, and that this nation is wandering, no firm
ever being many days in one place, are on the mainland today and tomorrow on some island, nor can
in any other way to live, as it supports hunting and fishing with, you can not always find
it in one place, and as Guaycurús, Charruas, birds and have no strength in Pampas land, and the
Payaguá in this river, and what would happen to them than to the birds, which twice Missionaries
and founded called reduction, and two to two, angry to live under one sky, turning to his old
habit of wandering fled, making it necessary These are coupled with Payaguá Wadding and Guaciarapos,
stable and permanent villages: but doing this union would cost more blood and sweat of it
to ride the success business.

With all that, the two zealous missionaries Joseph de Arce and Juan Bautista de Zea, wanted
this work is to put an attempt, paving the difficulties his zeal was so great that offered.
But P. Superior was of contrary opinion, not willing to risk the lives of these two apostolic workers,
with no other effect that we continue our journey, when to December 2 ran twice danger of shattering
the boat as we were. The first was in the morning, running aground on a sand, and went so deep
keel very laboriously, with the help of the other boats could refloat and remove outside the
arena. On this occasion with great affection pray to the Blessed
Virgin, and their favor, when we thought entered the water in many
places, it was found that had not had anything.

But more was the danger and the shock to come at night because the
wind blowing very loud and altered the river, and walking around the
ship at risk, suddenly gave a stumbling block and blind fury of water
and wind rock star in rock to throw it on the bank.

This surprised us all and we expected the shock that was to smash
and run risk our lives, but the gracious Lady wanted to give us the
grace fulfilled, leaving, both we and the boat safely from that risk.

A January 4 ordered P. Top three boats ahead to seek as sailing and
rowing before entering the port to take to Asuncion P. Juan Bautista
Neuman, who afflicted greatly from dysentery was reduced to little
more than the last stages of life.

Finally, on day 7, we all back at the port, where the land we went out to meet the Governor,
the nobility and the people in large crowds, they wanted in any case, even that we refuse, lead to
the school, where we had the sad news of death of this good Father. It came so hurt and finished
the work force by trip, was that in many weeks there could give him to eat anything but a
sad corrupted handful of corn, an hour after being in our school
went to receive the award the heavenly Jerusalem of so many jobs.

At his funeral attended by ecclesiastical and secular council and
all religions who wanted honor, as they said, the corpse of a holy
martyr, as it suffered the hardships and work for the glory of God
and the good of souls had finished.

A 9 of the same month we went to the Assumption to return to the Guarani, which lately, to
4 February, we finished as long voyage.

Nine months we spent on this trip; hannes missed sixteen Indians shortages
the food and dysentery that afflicted almost all of us and took us
to some Other missionaries had been killed over the serious detriment
of so many souls, to whose conversion were intended.

"So far the relationship of this trip.

Notable was the sense of P. Provincial seeing faded as effective means for attempt, but why
not leaving the company withdrew, and so last year following the visit the College of Tarija,
ordered Father Juan Patricio Fernández manufactures some canoes on the banks were believed to
be the Paraguay River, sent there to P. Miguel Yegros, Henry's brother
Adam, the Assumption, accompanying practical Xarayes vogadores mighty
river.

Father left point Juan Patricio with two partners and a hundred Indians from the village of San
Rafael for the month of October of that year, to see if that river, along which the P. Francisco
Herve had raised the cross, was the Paraguay, but three days' journey he found that seemed lost
in that river in a palm, not knowing where he was a close, with all eighty leagues that happened
later to recognize where was the cross, but getting there saw that
this was not the Paraguay River and its branch, but a large lake at
the time of Rainfall is spread through those valleys.

Descubríanse high mountains here between East and South, and believing that failure to deseadísimo
them run the river, determined to go there, as it did, the trip was uncomfortable and difficult,
because all he had to be at the top of the mountain, went through
some Rancheria Guarayos destroyed by Mamalucos found many gaps, registered
the largest and deep to see if it drained into the Paraguay River,
but all to no avail.

It was mid-December and the sky threatened to flood the campaign with the rains, which closed the
road for the return, but with all that, because so many jobs not remain frustrated wanted to
spend eight days in the company that many, and no longer seemed necessary to arrive at the shores
of Paraguay, as some Indians claimed old, who for some rugged mountains
before them, they remembered the country, where as boys walked with
his countrymen to move war against the Guarayos living along the river
to Paraguay.

They arrived there after eight days, having spent three open road in a thick forest, not find how
to quench the thirst but squeezing some roots called Bocurús.

Shortly later discovered a large lake surrounded by a crown of mountains to East opened the mouth,
where the lake discharging its waters, and encircled by the West a very thick forest. He asked
Fr Juan Patricio Fernández whether this gap would lead to in the Paraguay River to respondents who did
not know, but a Penoquí of those who escaped in the hands of Mamalucos he added that that
lake had entered the enemy to discourse and register the country,
and the band of the East discovered a sandy area where landing Mamalucos
said had left the canoes and taking way over land, had gone to hunt
Taus Indians.

Hearing this, he made a canoe at the time, but finding no tree on purpose, and being and in the
heart of winter, he was forced to turn back and leave the company
to better weather.

Dealing, then, to the people the food they had reserved for his journey
to the Assumption sent to the sand and recognize that the Mamalucos
way.

A two-day gave way such people in a small Rancheria Guarayos sixty souls that led him to the town of San
Juan Bautista, where they arrived safely on Saturday Saint of the same year.

Fr John Patrick and his companions spent twenty-five days to get into San Rafael, be, owing
to the rains innundada entire campaign, for which reason they were forced to walk barefoot, all
soaked with water, and was fortunate to run into the night with a mound, but swamp, where
to stop, but not to take some rest and breath in sleep not permit
the infinite multitude of mosquitoes and flies that produce moisture.

Many hardships, ill-treatment and these missionaries work caused serious illness and fortune
could they convalesce, but not the brother Enrique Adamo, who consumed and disposal of excessive
work and not having the strength to recover, passed on 27 July, 1705 to bliss, to receive the
reward of his labors.

This brother was a nurse in the Professed House of Rome, when coming to this court Fr Ignacio Frias,
attorney general of this province, was licensed general Father Tirso Gonzalez to come by your
partner and go to the Missions of the Guarani, where was to exercise
the same profession of nursing to this school in Cordoba, and from
there went to the Chiquitos missions, he always had great affection
and with his zeal and industry sought the progress of them, to die
in demand.

Guarayos that the residence in the San Juan Bautista were some who understood the language Castilian,
which could Fr Juan Patricio Fernández informed of Paraguay and the port where Mamalucos gave
news down to take the land of the Chiquitos and even they volunteered to go with him there.

Therefore, he sent some Indians to make way in the forests of the Taus, which reached Rancheria
to the last of these, situated at the foot of the mountains of Santa Cruz la Vieja, discovered
the peasants the intent of his trip, which dissuaded him saying they could not the animals to
stand by those hills so rugged and they point the way not so difficult, but all of the forest
but all full of streams and in some places dilated in fertile campaigns.

At

the beginning of August set out on his watch Fr P. Fernández Juan Bautista Xandra and two Guarayos,
halted in the land of Guarayos, where he found some Christian had come from the reduction of St.
Joseph to encourage these people to enlist under Flags of Christ, and got their claim because giving
up all his native soil were reduced to living in our reductions.

Parents They stopped here three days waiting for the neophytes who
had been sent to spy the new road, from here they continued their
journey, although bathed in sweat, being necessary to open way with
axes and picks a very thick forest, until they came in a beautiful
season hearing, which was opposite the lagoon Mamore, to where were
heading.

They came finally to the beach where they used to land the Mamalucos, where he found the P. Top five
long chains that were buried there those cruel men.

This beach is a strip of land, a few miles inside the lagoon, and flows eastward and divides
this lake into two inlets, one of which extends towards the north and another to the south, and
so by what he saw as he knew by relations of others, was certified
that the lake emptied into the river Paraguay.

Father wanted to advance and move forward, to which he let the Indians seeking a thick wood he
constructed a canoe, and they, not far from there, found a tree well apropos to the case,
which, arranged in a canoe and cast into the water, barely Chiquitos that came in under the oars
were primed Vogar, when flipped, and those poor fell into the water, where with great difficulty
out saying: "This is not for us."

But while I was very upset on that side the pond by the wind blowing, he ordered them Fr Fernández
pasasen the canoe to the other bay, but the Indians probing the deep waters not want to risk
again be in danger, he entreated her Father to you, at least would switch to the other side, which
also refused to be shown the danger that rushing stream of water knocked over the boat sank
and he could not be helped: it seemed chance and accident incident
would not suffer the intended effect as many errands and work suffered
by discovering the coveted port of Paraguay, but it was not singular
providence the Almighty, no less caring for his glory in the life
of his servants, because if our Missionaries of the Chiquitos reductions
down to that of the Guarani, fall into the hands of Payaguá, who had
vowed to avenge the death of their countrymen to death and havoc any
Spanish that they would find, as I wrote shortly after P. Provincial,
ordering that none of us come down there to the Guarani, and that
if there was already road, then turned to give the Chiquitos.

The cause of rupture was that when those five missionaries who earlier spoke of, they brought
to the city of Asunción noblest of that nation, were not they received from the city with a good
face, fearing that came to spy out the land and give them Suddenly
an assault and plunder, with all that, out of respect for our men,
treated courteously the Governor, and caressed by a thousand gifts
and presents are returned to their land.

Soon after, I do not know what the reason, the river ran through some
Spanish, and meeting with a squad of those barbarians were given a
closed loading musket, and death some others put to flight.

This peace was broken, and never will trust the Payaguá of us, let
alone the Spanish, but rather, are always alert to avenge the injury
received as have executed with much damage to all that government
of Paraguay.

CHAPTER IX

Múdanse Reductions to another place, goes to the Father Superior Tarija and disasters of the
neophytes.

Been occupied by P. Corporate boss who just referred, was not put into implementing the order
of P. Visitor of these reductions, José Pablo Castaneda that seek better and healthier place to
make back the reductions, and therefore wanted to This put it in
play, little to no help and spreading diseases.

Considered therefore, the most according to the health of those people, and to reduce to the bordering
nations faith, gladly found the neophytes who Reduction San Rafael be moved and planted on
a hill not far from its foundation, where is at present, with great advantage that there are
infidels to live and take home.

Reduction of San Juan Bautista moved to Zapoco, low water stream, but comfortable, to also joined
other infidels.

Reduction in St. Joseph, not the Indians cuadrales the site that was chosen to move it, it had
the best move to Santa Cruz la Vieja, in whose election, how well divined the uninitiated,
is discovered by the prosperous state that has always remained, and because scale to the infidel
nations of the Chaco.

It has not stopped, however, the devil to make their own, to pull
it from here seeing how damage has been followed to his party, but
discovered traces and tangles, dropped all to smoke.

The other of San Francisco Xavier was spent thirteen miles further
down the Normans and always has increased, so it has been necessary
to divide in other reductions.

Chosen as the location for the new foundation, ordered Fr Superior
is not launched factory, without having first seed and will have to
live on: but the people refused wait that long, and his eyes always
see death in a long time that climate inficcionado before the plague,
for which they were the parents need to follow the Indians, and P.
Superior, going to St. Joseph, found themselves missionaries, who
with his outfit were already starting to go to the neophytes.

From this it led to the town of Tarija to businesses that treat Christianity with the New Provincial
P. Blas de Silva, from the day 16 September 1706 ruled that province, bringing the practical Guarayos
Paraguay.

Therefore come at the said town, noted the news that had safe harbor in Paraguay River and the Indians
destined to be released for the Guarani, in order that Missionaries guide him safely to the other
Chiquitos.

In all this did little if Fr Provincial, saying that evidence would be like the past, that
no risk should take account either to other operators who worked Apostolic other parties with
the same glory of God and the good of souls. What were the Missionaries of the Chiquitos the
first to breach the road, that a contingency would not, at so coast, exposing other subjects in
this laborious undertaking. A can not replicate P. Fernández, waited more time to achieve their
desires: and to be as early as late December and closed roads with the rain, stayed in Tarija,
the government confirmed those Missions, and the following year of
1707 he returned to them with two other operators, the P. Paul Restivo,
Sicilian, former Missionary of Guarani, and P. Juan Bautista de Zea
with the office of Visitor, on behalf of the Provincial, who thought
to open new ground, because he had received order on P. Felipe Suarez
from the town of St. Joseph, smooth the way, paying San Miguel River,
because they saved many days of travel and got rid of the Fords Guapay
dangerous river and had come here to hunt once the Indian Chiriguaná
Penoquís, although they went wrong this invasion because of the Penoquís
caught in an ambush the stick went to all the bowels, and thus transferred
the rose in the air and put them on the sides of the road to sample
what they would do to others if moviesen to something like that.

Fr Suarez, for the month of May called his work the will of the Father Zea, but could not reach
until the Chiriguaná Rancherías not have with that support large
number of Indians Chiquitos, which paved the road.

With all that, taking in the sight of mountains that top inhabiting Chiriguaná was done with
two Indians to see if he found any Rancheria.

A few steps coming toward you saw one of the Chiriguaná, which terrified at the sight of P. Felipe,
as enemies, put the spurs to his horse, and arrived at his entire career Rancheria Mamalucos
gave notice that came with it was prevented for the defense and put up in arms all around. Therefore,
not having the father who would guide them and seeing abandoned its
Christians, turned to St. Joseph, and although unable to news of what
happened to P. Fernández, knew it in the Salinas Valley of voice that
was disclosed, which was surmised what had attempted P. Felipe.

At the end of September broke P. Fernandez to the Chiquitos, and arrived
at the land the Chiriguanos called Palmares, news was certain the
road had been opened the Chiquitos