 The suits were still high blades
glistening in the groups, but no one was close to Batiste, and he backed slowly back, waving the bloody
stool.

That left the square, staring eyes challenge the group around the
fallen Pimento.

They were all brave people, but they seemed dominated by the strength of this man.

Seeing the way, at a distance from the tavern, ran, and now close
to his hut tossed in a ditch the heavy stool, watching with horror
the blood blackish spots and dry.

X

Batiste lost all hope for a quiet life on their land.

The whole garden up against him again. Again had to be isolated in the hut with his family live
in a perpetual void, as an outcast, like a caged animal to which all taught his fist from afar.

His
wife had told him the next day how he was taken to his cabin the wounded bully. The same, from his
home, had heard the screams and threats of all the people that came
the bruised Pimento caring .... A true demonstration.

Women, knowing what occurred thanks to the astonishing rapidity with which the garden is spread
the news out the road for close to bravo Pepeta husband and pity him as a hero killed in the interest
of all.

The same pests hours before he spoke, shocked by his drunken bet, pitied him, found out whether
his injury was serious, shouting revenge against that 'dead hunger ", this thief, who, not
content to take what was not theirs, still trying imposed by the terror attack men as well.

Pimento
showed magnificent.

Much hurt the coup, he was leaning on his friends, with bandaged head, made an Ecce Homo,
as the indignant gossips claimed, but did efforts to smile, and at each excitation of revenge
answered with an arrogant gesture, stating that your account was running to punish the enemy.

Batiste did not doubt that these people have their revenge.

I knew the usual procedures in garden. To that land had not done justice to the city, the
fort was little thing trying to satisfy a grudge. What need a man judges or Guard civil, having
good eye and a shotgun in his shed? The things men should resolve men themselves.

And as the whole garden and thought, in vain the day after the fight went and reviewed the paths
two trays tricorn, going from house to the shed Cup Pimento for insidious questions to the people
who were in the fields. Nobody had seen anything, nobody I knew nothing had Pimento brutal laughter
how he had broken his head back of the tavern, in consequence of
its commitment, made him walk unsteadily, colliding the road into
trees, and the two police officers had to return to his barracks Alboraya,
without getting anything in light of the vague rumors of fight and
blood had reached to them.

The magnanimity of the victim and his friends alarmed to Batiste, making him live in perpetual
defensive.

The family as a frightened snail, retreated inside the house, avoiding
contact with the garden.

Small and did not attend school, stopped going Rosetta to the factory and did not Batistet one step
beyond their fields.

The father was the only one left, appearing as confident and quiet about their safety, as careful
and cautious with his era.

But there was no trip to Valencia without carrying a shotgun, leaving them confident a friend of
the suburbs. He lived in constant contact with his weapon, the most modern piece home, always
clean, bright and caressed with such affection that the farmer Valencian Moor feels for his shotgun.

Teresa
was so sad as the death of the little boy. Every time she saw her husband cleaning both barrels
of the weapon by changing the cartridges or by playing the lever to convince it opened softly,
going through his mind the image of the prison and the terrible story Uncle Barret. I saw blood,
and cursed the hour when they came established on these cursed land. And then came the hours
of concern about the absence of her husband, a endless afternoons, anguish, waiting for the
man who never returned, leaving at the door of the cabin to explore
the road, shuddering every time it sounded in the distance a hunters
shot swallow, believing the beginning of a tragedy, shot tore the
head or head of the family who opened the doors of the prison.

And when Finally, Batiste appeared, shouting with joy small, Teresa smiled wiping eyes, the daughter
came to embrace the stops and the dog jumped up beside him, sniffing
uneasily, as if sniffing him the danger he had just meet.

And Batiste, calm, steady, not arrogant, laughed at the concern of his family, showing each more
daring as time went by from the famous fight.

Considered safe. Slope of the arm while wearing the magnificent 'Bird two voices " as he called
them his gun, he could go with confidence throughout the garden. Going such good company, its enemies
pretended not to know.

Even some times he had seen from afar Pimento, who was walking in the garden as a flag of revenge
his head bandaged, and the bully, Although he was recovered from the blow, he fled, fearing
the game perhaps more than Batiste.

Everyone looked at him askance, but never heard from the fields near
the road a word insult.

Turned their back with contempt, bent over the ground and worked
feverishly out of sight.

The one who spoke was the old Tomba, the crazy pastor, who recognized him with his eyes without
light, as if Batiste smelled around the disaster environment. And always the same .... Do not
want to leave the cursed land?

- Fas wrong, meu fill, you will carry desgrasia [26].

[26] - You are wrong, my son will bring misfortune.

Batiste welcomed with a smile the old ditty.

Familiar with danger, he had never feared less than now. So I felt a certain enjoyment Secret
provoking, marching directly toward him. His feat of the pub had changed nature, peaceful and
suffered before, awakening within them a brutal aggressor. He wanted to prove to all those
people who did not feared, and opened his head Pimento he was able to walk to all the garden
shots.

And pushed him to do so would and boastful bully for a while, so I respect you, leaving you then
live in peace.

Tucked away in dangerous endeavor, even abandoned their fields, from the days when the trails the garden
under the pretext of hunting, but in reality to display his gun and his gesture few friends.

One
afternoon, pulling them into the ravine swallows Carraixet, was surprised by the dusk.

Birds with their restless flight wove a fanciful contradanza reflected by the calm ponds with
reed fringes.

This ravine, cutting the garden as a deep crack, dark, stagnant and putrid water with muddy banks
beside which stirred a rotting boat, was a desolate and wild. Nobody would have suspected
that behind the high slopes, beyond the reeds and the cañares, was the plain with cheerful
atmosphere and green perspectives. Even the sunlight seemed grim down to bottom of the ravine diffused
by a rough vegetation and dimly reflected in the stagnant water.

Batiste spent the afternoon shooting. In his belt and a few cartridges left, and his feet as lots of bloody
feathers, had two dozen birds. The great dinner! ... How happy your
family!

Starting to get dark in the deep ravine of ponds came a foul breath,
breath malarial fever poison.

The frogs sang to thousands, as if to salute the first stars, happy to not hear the shots and stopped
their croqueo and forced to throw head fearfully, breaking the smooth
glass of putrid ponds.

Batiste picked bunches of birds, hanging from his belt, and with only
two breaks up the bank, the paths undertaken by the return to his hut.

The sky, still steeped in the dim light of dusk, had a sweet tone
of purple, bright the stars and in the vast garden sounded the thousand
sounds of country life before extinguished with the arrival of the
night.

Paths passing through the returning girls city, men returning from the field, the tired horses
dragging the heavy car, and Batiste replied to 'Bona nit! "of all who passed by him, people Alboraya
did not know him or did not have reasons to hate their neighbors.

She left the village, and as it advanced toward his hut Marcab Batiste
increasingly hostile.

People bumped into him in the paths without her good night.

Entered in a foreign land, and soldier who is prepared to combat just
across the border enemy, Batiste sought in his belt of ammunition,
two bullet cartridges and BBs made by himself, and loaded his shotgun.

The big man laughed after doing this. Good dash of lead was going to get anyone who tried head
off.

He walked slowly, quietly, enjoying the fresh breath that summer night. But the calm did not
make him think about what it was risky to go the garden such hours having enemies.

His ear caught a peasant subtle noise behind her. He turned quickly, and to diffuse starlight
thought he saw a black figure out of the way with leap silent and hiding behind a bank.

Batiste requested his gun, and riding cautiously approached the keys to the site. Nobody ....
Only at some distance it seemed that the plants waved in the dark, as if a body is dragged between
them.

We were following: someone tried to surprise him treacherously in the back. But this suspicion
did not last. Perhaps it was a stray dog ??that ran away when he felt his approach.

In short: the truth was that someone was fleeing from him, whoever
he was, and had nothing to do there.

He went on by the gloomy way, walking silently, like a man who knows his way around blind and prudence
to want no attention. As he approached his booth was greatest concern. This was his district, but
it was his most tenacious enemies.

A few minutes before reaching his home, near the farm where the girls blue dancing on Sundays,
the road was strangled, making several turns. On one side, a bank high topped by two rows of old
mulberry trees, on the other, a wide ditch, which borders slope was
covered by thick and high Canar.

This vegetation appeared in the dark an Indian forest, a canopy of swaying bamboo on the black
road.

The mass of reeds, shaken by the breeze of the night, threw a mournful cry and seemed smell
betrayal in this place, so fresh and pleasant daylight hours.

Batiste, to mock his own restlessness, exaggerated the danger mentally.

Magnificent place to let go a bullet for sure! If Pimento went around, not so despise beautiful
occasion.

And this was said just came out of the reeds a line and tongue of fire shooting an arrow red, that the dissolution
was a bang, and something whizzed past his ear next to Batiste. Thrown against him .... Instinctively
ducked, trying to be confused with the gloom of ground, do not present a target to the enemy.
And at the same time flash gleamed for a moment, rang another explosion,
mingled with the echoes still alive in the first, and she felt in
her Batiste a sore left shoulder tear, something like a steel claw
clawing surface.

It hardly stopped listening. I felt a wild joy. Two shots ... the enemy was disarmed.

- Christ! Ara't caught! [27]

[27] - Christ! Now, you rascal!

Was launched through the rushes, almost rolling down the slope of
the banks of the canal, and was stuck in waist-deep water, feet in
the mud, arms high, very high to prevent the gun will get wet, greedily
keeping the two shots so far to shoot them safely.

In their eyes cruzábanse rods, forming tight vault, almost level with
the water.

Front it was ringing in the darkness a dull splash, as if a dog flee ditch down .... There
was the enemy to him!

He began a mad dash into the deep channel, groping in the dark, leaving
losses sandals in the mud of the bed, his pants stuck to the flesh,
braces, heavy movements difficult, getting the slap in the face of
the canes cut short, the scratches and sharp rigid sheets.

There was a time when he thought he saw something black Batiste that
he clung to reeds struggling climb the embankment.

Sought to escape ... Fire! His hands, which felt the itch of murder threw the gun to his face,
left trigger ... rang shot, and dropped the package in ditch in a shower of leaves and broken
reeds.

He! To him! ... Batiste returned again to hear that splash of runaway dog, but now harder, as if the
flight spurred by extreme desperation.

Vertigo was the race through the darkness, vegetation and water. Slipped the two on the ground
flabby, unable to hold on to the cane for not releasing the shotgun
arremolinábase water, whipped by fierce career, Batiste, who fell
to his knees several times, only thought to stretch your arms to keep
his gun away from the surface, saving the shot reserve.

And the manhunt continued, groping in the darkness deep, until a revolt of the canal came to
an open space, clean the river banks of reeds.

Batiste's eyes, accustomed to the gloom of the canopy, were clearly a man who, leaning on his
gun, staggered out of the ditch, moving with difficulty his legs loaded with mud.

Was it ... It! The usual!

- Lladre ... lladre: no t'escaparás!

[28] - Batiste roared, firing his second shot from bottom of the ditch with the safety of the
shooter can aim well and knows that "made flesh."

[28] - Thief ... thief will not escape!

I saw his face fall heavily on the bank, and then crawl to not roll
into the water.

Batiste wanted to achieve, but in such haste, it was he who, stepping in false, fell full length
on the bottom of the ditch.

His head sank into the mud, swallowing the liquid earthy reddish thought he would die, be buried
in that bed of mud, and finally, with a mighty effort, he managed to straighten, drawing water
out of his eyes blinded by the limo, her mouth eagerly aspiring wind night.

Just his sight, he looked at his enemy. Had disappeared.

Dripping mud and water out of the ditch, climbed the slope on the
same site as their adversary, but on reaching the top saw him no.
In the dry land marked some blackish spots, and played with the
hands.

Smelt blood.

He well knew that he had not missed the mark. But in vain sought to contrast with the desire to
see his corpse.

Pimento That was the tough skin and blood and mud throwing was perhaps to crawl up their barracks.
From him should proceed a vague sense in rubbing it felt like the immediate areas that of
a large snake crawling through the grooves, by the barking dogs all
garden with desperate cries.

I had heard crawl the same way for fifteen minutes before, when he tried to kill him definitely
in the back, and fled to be found crawling the way to bet more there
in the thick reeds and stalk without risk.

Batiste suddenly felt afraid. He was alone in the middle of the plain, completely disarmed; his
gun, lack of ammunition, but that was no longer a weak club. Pimento could not return against
him, but he had friends. And suddenly dominated by terror, ran away, looking through field
the road leading to his hut.

The plain quivered with alarm. The four shots in the middle of the night had set in commotion
to all around. Barking dogs, increasingly angry, entreabríanse doors farms and barracks, throwing
black silhouettes that certainly did not leave empty-handed.

With whistles and shouts entendíanse the neighbors to great distances. Night shots could be a sign
of fire, thieves, who knows what! ... probably no good, and men left their homes ready for anything,
with the dedication and solidarity of living in the countryside.

Frightened by this movement, Batiste ran into his hut, stooping often to unnoticed under the slopes
or the great piles of straw.

And saw his house, with the door open
and light, in the middle of red square packages black family.

The
dog sniffed and was the first to greet him. Rosetta Teresa and gave
a cry of joy.

- Batiste, are you?

- Stop! Stop! ...

And they all
rushed to him, at the entrance of the hut, under the ancient vine,
through branches whose stars shone like fireflies.

The mother, with
his fine ear for women concerned and alarmed by the late husband,
had heard far, far away, four shots, and her heart sank, as she said.
All family had rushed to the door, eager devouring the dark horizon,
convinced detonations that alarmed the Vega had some relationship
with the father's absence.

Mad with joy to see him and hear his words,
were fixed on his face smeared with mud, in their bare feet, dirty
clothes and dripping with mud.

He pushed inward. Rosetta was hung
from his neck, sighing lovingly, with eyes still wet:

- Stop! Stop!
...

But the stand could not restrain a grimace of pain, an "oh!"
Drowned and painful. Arm Rosetta was leaning on his left shoulder
in the same place where he suffered the tear steel nail, and the weight
was now increasingly overwhelming.

Upon entering the cabin and give
full candlelight, women and the boys released a gasp. They saw the
bloody shirt ... and also the look of outlaw, as if he had to escape
from a prison going down the toilet.

Rosetta and her mother burst
into sobs. "Holy Queen! ... And Lady Sovereign! Have you had ?...»
killed

But Batiste, who had shoulder pain increasingly unbearable,
took them out of your regrets sullen gesture he ordered them to see
quickly what I had.

Rosetta, more courageous, ripped and rough-shirt
to leave the-shoulder ... Much blood! The girl turned pale, making
efforts not to faint. Batistet and young Teresa began to mourn and
the screams continued as if her husband was in agony.

But the wounded
man was to suffer no regrets and protested rudely. Less crying: that
was slight, the proof was that he could move his arm, but felt increasingly
heavier shoulder. It was a scrape, shot and nothing else. He felt
too strong for that that injury was serious. Let's see ...! water,
rags, lint, a bottle of arnica Teresa kept as a miracle cure in her
bedroom ... Moving! the case was not to be all looking at him with
your mouth open.

Teresa rummaged around his room, looking at the
bottom of the purse, ripping paintings by sliding bands, while the
girl washed washed and returned to that cleft lips bloody which started
as a saber the fleshy shoulder.

The two women were able to shortcut
such as bleeding, bandaged the wound, and breathed Batiste with satisfaction,
as if they were cured. Heaviest blows have fallen on him in his life.

And
went on to lecture the young to be prudent. From what they had seen
not a word to anyone. It was convenient to forget matters