 

All critics and biographers agree in Velázquez consider this portrait as work of exceptional
merit: some praising it as regards the way of conceiving, printing the rough rider so much life and
so bold, others praise the drawing, where, through of regrets and corrections that are still
noticeable, is an admirable precision, others finally the ease of implementation, which has completely
gone past that hardness of the first pictures. For my part, I only recall that a few steps in
this picture is in our Prado Museum equestrian Charles I, by Titian, and that the comparison is
conducive to the first, for the great Venetian master was raided many difficulties having
to model a figure of heroic overtones, and the Spanish had to infuse his own, without violating the
truth, grandeur and poetry that was missing at all.

Tell the stories and relationships, a dozen women, including wives and girlfriends took Felipe
IV thirty-two children, including legitimate and illegitimate [43], but none will be so pleased
as Prince Don Baltasar Carlos, occurred after three children died without fulfilling a year,
his first wife and cousin Princess of France Isabella of Bourbon, whom he calls a writer of
the day lily fragrant purple rose turned into Spanish.

That child was born the year of 1629, during the continuance of Velázquez in Italy, which portrayed
several times, and it is assumed that the first on a canvas that is now housed in Castle-Howard.
Prince Has there two years and is represented standing on a step in the second term: before he
sees a dwarf page. In his eyes shines the property of their living eye images Further, in its
view, inappropriate for a child, can be discovered by painter to do that highlight the range of
the model: the left hand supports the hilt of the sword and her hand on the baton. Crosses its
rich dark velvet dress with lace a red gold: the background is a red curtain, and a pillow is
the hat velvet with white feathers. The dwarf, located a step lower than his master, becomes
to this the enormous head has smooth wide flange and chain around his neck, an apron covering
her the lower body. In his right hand has a silver-sucking, and left an apple [44]. Beruete, who
take these data, said that for some time, Table attributed to Correggio, assuming that the
portrait was a prince of Parma, but today two distinguished critics, Justi and Armstrong,
the second with some reservations, recognized he hand of Velazquez.

In Madrid the Prince portrayed twice, both times natural size, on foot and horseback. Don Pedro
de Madrazo has described these two pictures with a clarity and precision that no but to ask:
when speaking of a listed accurately clothing from the gorrilla of Walloon wing and lace up
sleeves tabard loggerhead and cloth shoes, with reference to another, from the hat with feathers
and red band of gold ends up boots tawny, or forgotten in the first of the two dogs, retriever
and greyhound, or left in the second to give an idea of ??the brown Andalusian mare harnessed simply:
mentioned, finally, Madrid area funds with breakers on the floor and blue colored clouds clouds
white, but what is not given to express, even with a pen as an expert, is the appeal The figure
of the Prince, happy, playful and yet regal, has in these paintings.

In captivity they certainly look majestic little person innocent and playful, candid and malicious
one that gives a greater grace to any weighting: to increase the charm appears also There is no
doubt that the relationship between age and the landscape around him laughing. Both tables
are light and juicy, and it touches on the implementation of the happiest I can cite the second
way of the author.

In the Vienna Imperial Museum there is another canvas depicting the Prince himself after three
or four years with black velvet gown embroidered with silver, and Ferreruela: this together
with a table covered with red carpet, where he has his hat, and the figure stands on a gray background.
"This work - says Beruete - is altogether wonderful, but the most admirable of it is the prodigious
modeling pale face, lit from the front, and the expression of the face, which reads the character
of the universally beloved child, whose premature death, fatal influence
exercised the fate of Spain.

"

Besides the two mentioned equestrian portraits, that of King and Prince Baltasar Carlos, is
in the Museo del Prado three other real people horse and attributed to Velázquez but that has long
been judged not made all of his hand. Are those of Don Felipe III and Margarita, his wife,
parents of Philip IV, and the latter's first wife, Isabel de Bourbon, who had few times a model
Velázquez, perhaps because this is protected Conde-Duque and she your enemy [45]. Artists and critics
say that in these three large canvases, clearly show lateral additions made to give greater proportions,
the teacher worked on previous portraits made by Bartolome Gonzalez and Nicolas de Villacis,
not Stirling is in Carreño, who was then to be very young. Looking carefully these works is known
that there was the brush of Velasquez was to value and enhance with amendments, corrections and
isolated touches the petty and non-working heavy work of artists. Overpainting are even: the portrait
of Philip III has the horse almost all redone, in the Dona Margarita this varied background,
making the original, which was a garden with boxwood boxes in field of bushes and shrubs in the
Dona Isabel de Borbon also note the change of horse, and head of the Queen there are significant
variations. It therefore seems likely that the the three portraits were painted when Velazquez was that
of Philip IV, and, for brothers with it, the tweak and bravely, giving, in particular that of Philip
III, an aspect great that they had, thus, the works that would now be uninteresting, they are much,
because in them we see how the genius, with little effort, becomes higher, which, with great
penalties, was medium.

Portrayed, also in hunting dress like the King and Prince, the Infante Don Fernando. About from
when did opinions differ: some say that before going to Italy, which denies style, others
say by the year 1647, when the character was killed, drawing face the study of a previous
image. The figure is admirably placed and its side has a hound that is among the best pieces
made by Velázquez painting.

And it says it portrayed people who are talking, could be said about this dog, which not bark
because they want.

Details, isolated, do not represent much, and together they suggest a lot, testify Of course,
in addition to sovereign artist must have been natural kind man Velázquez; at least he was grateful:
I do not hesitate to ensure that evidence is his portrait Count-Duke.

The vanity of it, that it would be safe to bequeath half his image posterity, he would desire:
he justified his rank, but Velazquez put in the work that efforts to approach the perfection of
its kind that is not best conceived.

Was deprived of Felipe IV as a bad manager of the income of the Treasury as jealous of own, which
came to 450,000 ducats a year, so vindictive, who said putting Quevedo crickets to nine pounds,
and being celebrated the funeral of the illustrious Duke of Fernandina ordered that the hands
of the deceased were removed from the general staff, as political evil caused the rebellion
in Catalonia and the loss of Portugal, Brazil and Roussillon; staunch favored sumptuary laws,
although the inventor of the washers, while the operator stamped
paper and computer hunts where as the King entered the twenty pigs
in a later: the fans who showed the letters and the arts into something
so abhorrent amengua its tyranny, but neither was in the military,
and won battles, even took the field.

However, such Velázquez as represented you think of the thunderbolt of war.

In July of 1638 Condé ramming Fuenterrabía besieged by sea under his orders Archbishop of Bordeaux:
defendiose bravely the main square with so few people, who could not be long resistance or
prevent entry. Conde-Duque then assembled a small army about twelve thousand men and with them
the Admiral of the French broke Castilla with such a furious onslaught that was entered Condé
fleeing into the water to win a boat and warlike Archbishop welcomed the ships leaving the
square free; translated the exhilaration experienced by the King
not so much reward as soon as the Admiral to reward with largesse
to the Conde-Duque.

This was the occasion that Velázquez, if flattering grateful to portray field advantage Battle
of whole body and size, ordering a fantastic fight on horseback, breastplate of gold work, large
feather hat, baton and look caudillo safe and worthy of victory. Is the gross, which is chestnut
roan in corvette anchored on legs, hands held high and so well embedded on him the graceful
figure of the rider who does not are seen more vividly in the beast or the man domain. Nobody
would say that this is the Minister courtier whose days Rocroy died in the prestige of the Spanish
infantry, but a hero to those who have guided or Nordinga Muhlberg: undoubtedly the artist
sinning chateau they do not breathe the foul air in vain, committed here in the flatter the weakness
of private: but the evil effect it instantly dissipates because considering that Olivares
was his protector, and that innocent lie was the only sign of gratitude could give. Velazquez
did nothing so exquisite care: none of his paintings so tenacious denotes determination of
accuracy: there he put the best of his understanding and his hands and had noblest sense of his soul.
The color is fresh and unique wealth: the implementation, careful and thorough so great about
the outcome, is in harmony with the nature of the figure where everything
shows strength, determination and vigor [46].

It stands to reason that the obligations attached to the charges in servitude played Velázquez
Palace will not leave much time to accept orders from individuals,
assuming King tolerate it, but it was natural for convenience or friendship
made other portraits: Several of these are preserved, the main as
follows.

The bust of an unknown figure in Apsley House has the Duke of Wellington. On the Counsel Don
Diego del Corral, full-length and size, wearing robe, with a table
with papers in their hands.

It must have been painted around 1632, and is owned by the Duchess Villahermosa.

Pablillo that of Valladolid (No. 1092 of the Museo del Prado). It was said a few years ago that
this was a representative of comedies that dozens working in the pens Madrid and even in the
Old Fortress: and for this reason it was called The Comedian. Madrazo found more later than in
the actual files, inventory was a picture as a portrait of a jester ruff Pablillo was called
at Valladolid, which measures almost coincided with those of the Comedian; and believed, but
his views were accepted, which was not such a representative, but buffoon or man pleasure.
I, with all due respect to this distinguished critic, I can not persuade me. True that there
is in books and old papers, so far discovered no mention of comic of the name, but so is that
a copyist might be called a buffoon who was not: for a palace scribe would have little difference
between a fraud and a fool: also, all Velázquez painted clowns were dwarfs ridiculous, grotesque
beings, and are dressed estate mess or unsuited to their condition, while Pablillo or is deformed or
has mogiganga clothes to class or higher, but on the contrary, it is graceful presenscia,
members well-proportioned and is dressed seriously as a person and not make me laugh. In truth,
his face gives patent truanesco rogue, but not in your body and face nothing in common with
those miserable events, true pathological cases whose villainy sporting our pious monarchs.
Velázquez portrayed each character depending on who was looking for ways to acknowledge their condition
and character: the king in majesty, the noble knight, the lady with the elegance that allowed
the wretched finery of his time, and this, I I have by comedian until proven otherwise fully,
put to rest not usually portrayed as large and gentlemen, but moved, declaiming, perhaps in
the act of loa or recite a passage of dish. Represents less than forty years, little eyes is alive
regular features, together mustache and goatee as black as his hair, and clothing court is black,
with white ruff, severe, almost lordly. The entire figure without accessories one, even without floor,
characterized by dark gray background: this and in the air and yet Velazquez got no better man planted.

[Image:
MUSEO DEL PRADO

SURRENDER OF BREDA]

Also of this period, the portrait of a sculptor
who first assumed to be Alonso Cano Madrazo then showed that it was
Martinez Montanes.

It is almost certain that the paint when 1636 the artist was summoned to Madrid to make a
bust of the king who sent Tacca order to facilitate the study of the statue. Is of the best
left hands Velázquez: natural size to about the knee, drawn with admirable security built head so
that it guesses the bone structure beneath the skin soft, fleshy, and carried freely in some
places with body-colored, barely covered the canvas where it is not necessary looking at all the character,
the soul of the form, as a gift from one artist to another, a fact without fear that the populace
does not understand with certainty that the party should appreciate all merit. Speaking of the
room where the portrait was soon placed in our museum says Lefort. "There are portraits of the
great masters, and what pictures! The Earl of Bristol, Van-Dick, Thomas Morus, Rubens, and others
of Antonio Moro, Holbein, Dürer, and precisely next to an admirable man by Tintoretto. Well, these
formidable neighbors, this picture makes it look like fiction, conventional imaging and dead.
Dick Van is dull, Greasy Rubens, Tintoretto yellowish Velázquez only gives us in all its fullness the
illusion of life. "

At the Museum of Modena, there is that by 1638 he painted the Duke Francesco d'Este. It is a superb
Armored bust and band, preliminary study probably the most important
work.

Also portrayed Juan Mateos, principal of HM archer, author of famous book Origin and dignity
of the Chase, printed in Madrid in 1634. The painting is now in the real gallery Dresden and is
likely to Velázquez: they say their bill and the similarity of the image Mateos's portrait
contained in that work recorded by P. Perete. The gift that made him Diego, this bust represented
Mateos green cloth with dark suit and white collar on which strongly underlines shaped the face:
it is expressive face, her hair, the short mustache and goatee.

The number 1,090 of the Prado Museum, is an average figure and portrait size of a Count Benavente:
What is not known for sure is if it is as he imagined Don P. Madrazo, of Don Antonio Alonso
Pimentel, the ninth of that title died in 1633, or any of its successors as inclined to believe
Beruete, quietly observing the style of the painting is the characteristic teacher works in time after
the death of that leader. Whoever, appears from his noble, chivalrous type legendary Spanish master
those times. Represents his frank face more than fifty years has expressive eyes, the short hair,
mustache and graying goatee great. It houses a rich his chest armor Fitted and damask with gold,
and has gauntlets of the same. Backdrop for his figure a red curtain and a hollow, after which the
currency field. In the old inventories Palace, was the one attributed to Titian, and at first
glance this seems absurd, because there is no confusion between the frank, loose, and most
molten Velázquez and pasted the great painter of Venice, has, however, his explanation for
this is the canvas that appears more pronounced in the painter to Philip IV the deep impression
that he had to cause Theotocópuli Domencio works, El Greco, and his disciple Louis Tristan
interesting influence that will be discussed later.

Other portraits are attributed to Velázquez in galleries and museums
abroad, but certainly not authenticity.

We know, for example, that in 1639 became one of the Admiral of Castile Don Adrián Pulido Pareja:
Palomino you saw in the house of the Duke of Arcos, says that this fact "with paintbrushes Long
wearing antlers sometimes to paint with greater distance and courage of luck that was not understood
by and far is a miracle, says it was signed in Latin, and even relates an anecdote, that while
the picture as to where there was little light and entering King, as usual, to see painting Velazquez,
painting confused with the man, asking the portrait: "What, are you still here? Have I not already
dispatched? Why did not you go? and then realizing his mistake said the artist: I assure you
that I cheated. "

Some biographers, including Armstrong, Stirling and Lefort, who comes to believe the story,
Philip IV on the grounds that it was very shortsighted, admit that this portrait should be
as given in National Gallery of London but you doubt Beruete, noting
deficiencies drawing and little ability on the bill unworthy of the
master.

Palomino says also portrayed Don Francisco de Quevedo "wearing glasses as usually used to bring.
" At the end of last century, this painting was owned by Don Juan Jose Lopez de Sedano, who sent
him to record a Spanish Parnassus Carmona [47]. Today is considered lost, and how old copy which
has the Duke of Wellington [48]. Pity large not keep the original! It must have been painted
before 1639, in which month of December, living in the home of the
Duke of Medinaceli, the great poet was arrested by order of the Conde-Duque.

Perhaps it was this the only time that Velazquez had the model who was as good as him.

Fleeing from Richelieu, who had conspired against, came to Spain in 1637 Madame Mary Rohan Montbazon,
Duchess of Luynes and Chevreuse, a favorite of Anne of Austria, a woman of great intelligence,
life full of adventures and unique beauty, whose appearance in Madrid must have Weird riots and
bring the people. In Zaragoza hosted the Marquis de los Vélez and the King sent her car and males
to come to court, where he entered December 6, leaving to receive the Admiral, the Constable,
the Duke of Híjar, Villahermosa, Pastrana and other larger, unequivocal proof that the king entertained.
At the meeting came more than a league, the Marquesas of Mirabel and Navas, and the Countess
de Santisteban. "She's very bizarre, and laid bare-chested, went walking looking at the front and
sides, to cars were stopped and crowded from Bernigal stream. " He had two servants French
one of whom slept in the apartment of his mistress, and "Madame gave clothes to the greatness
of your mood not wanting to receive eight thousand ducats that he had from SM [49]. " The Duchess
said - adding the letter from which we get such data - all behaved with great modesty, Diego
Velázquez and is now portraying the air and brought the French [50]. " Palomino says he portrayed
at that time to "superior skill, a lady of singular perfection [51]." No one has determined
whether this portrait and the former are self, nor should they be two where they went. The
one with the beautiful Duchess of Chevreuse, made by Velázquez, would quite different from
those queens and princesses of the House of Austria, whose ugliness farthingales, wigs and
rouge, had to fight to give them distinction and elegance. No was in the fortunate luck of the
great artist portraits: those of the illustrious poets and beautiful women, as Gongora and Quevedo,
the English lady and Chevreuse, have been lost: in Change your hand are the faces of those
figures of princes and clowns, where pain is our sad decline.

Nor did it keep the Cardinal Don Gaspar de Borja, teachers of the House King, Pereira and Cardona,
Don Fernando de Fonseca, a relative no doubt of his patron, nor the Fray Simón de Rojas on
his deathbed. Finally, some of fire Palace, he must eliminate one horse who did the King, which
exposed the public and Having been censored on the horse, angry about
the ignorance of others or moderately satisfied own error, deleted it.

Here ends the relationship of the portraits he painted during those years, people immortalized several
conditions, among which there was almost no one who deserved it.
Let's see now, your pictures of the same era: where we find wonder,
enchantment of eyes as delight; desperate pen can not express the
life that beats in them