 Uruguay River was calm, all things were silence from the Spanish,
  and one large unit war remained a project, nor the winter
  that had already started, allowed otherwise. In the recent
  meeting which had concluded, ambassadors came to the Yapeyú, each
  of the peoples of the other side of Uruguay, and also some more
  remote, the principal chiefs, because as he ran the known that the
  minds of those inhabitants were discordant, and that one with
  the heroes, were inclined to feel the unanimous confederation
  to suppress the enemy, and others with the captain of people did
  not want to take up arms, were there to renew and promote the
  alliance and bring his party to the captain yet the people. A truth
  that was hidden the Army, but this Embassy filled with joy again
  and curia or council, joined the heroes with the captain, and the
  people with the heroes, and ported to its so beautifully, they
  returned to their own places, and formed the confederation
  agreed, and together told certainly not seen any enemy, and yes
  only a few thieves and spies, who had been killed and stripped
  of all their mounts.
  
  17.

  By this time the priest of San Borja, having been called Little
  has by superiors, and having been sent to the Trinidad, it was
  said that had also gone down the Parana to the Spanish cities,
  and that another had been put in Instead, after that first the
  priest of St. Joseph for some time commission and met there a secret
  pesquiza. These things happened at the Spanish border.
  

  18. And back to ours, and to the Portuguese, and approached
  Michael with his captain, that little has be had retired from
  other people, (this was Alexander vice-governor of San Miguel)
  and the certain coming of those the publishing fame, and confirms
  or Sepé testified, one of the most famous captains.
  

  19. Meanwhile on the field celebrating Easter with devotion possible,
  and met the ceremonies and rites church, the place and time
  permitting, the Commemoration of Holy Passion of the Lord, while
  in churches solemnly sing Alleluia, there were two parts artillery
  with his guards and custodians. Down after the hills, and
  formed squads under six flags had more than 200 men. Saliéronles
  to meet the Luisistas squads with two banners, and greeting mutually,
  bringing its patron saint and other images of saints, (The ones
  people use to always carry it) to a chapel made of palm branches,
  and having run the horses, and made his profession of arms style,
  went à a nearby camp site, and camped at the place appointed
  for the real.
  
  20. The next day, which was the Resurrection of the Lord and
  April 12, held before the ceremony, (to wit, with Procession and
Solemn Mass) one of the captains went to the Johannites, which, although
they were neighbors, they had just arrive, and said that would come
the next day, that is, third Passover.

  Miguelistas impatient of the delay and stimulated with the old dissensions,
  reuse expected, and were strong in themselves to take the road
  Luisistas towards the enemy.
  
  21. Are encouraged to reason and sacred, political: it is namely,
  being weak forces do not support the agreement: this never would
  have if you were looking for new reasons disagreement, that one
  should not only rely on themselves forces against an enemy who,
  although outnumbered, they excelled on the site, the skill of firearms
and experience: they were also empty all the forces men, and vain
the crowd, the Lord of hosts that not protect us stronger, then there
is no hope any victory: that God hates the enmity, that is drives
away with discord, and uranium is sold or placed with dissensions.

  The same preacher began by egemplo its suffering, which had hoped
  for two months, and so wait a day, which had been expected for
  months. Silent masters, and consented to wait until the day
  Easter rearward.
  
  22. The Lorenza back again with their excuses, exposes the weakness
  and fatigue of his horses, and therefore they said, would send
  30 soldiers to help, that they would defend their lands, and
  on the other hand fight with the enemy. Seemed frivolous the
  excuse, because the others had longer paths traveled also tired
  horses, or seemed that we would have had to compromise with the
  animals, while in threatening land. And so it did not
  allow the excuse, and they notice that if it took, they guard their
  homes, and look to the future. Did not seem appropriate to
  wait, because as others were distant and withdrawn, were to
  cause prejudicial delay, or as few people (there were about 60) could
give much relief to compensate the damage that was judged would cause
the delay.

  
  
  23. It was now the day was to reach the Johannine, and still
  had passed, and yet did not seem, however his field was far only
  three or four leagues. Shortly after noon, was the passage
  of San Juan Mayor first vote, which was sent by the council
  and the people, to take the government instead of the real Ensign,
  who sent his detachment, and was the head and leader of the dissensions,
  the which had already been made known to those who sent in people.
  Then the point was dispatched, and was entrusted give haste to
  their own: finally came after some of them of vespers, and was received
  as the day before yesterday, the Miguelistas. But he shone in
  all his bad mood, because came without flags, without pomp, and
  with a mournful silence, and the very soul of the war, the drums
and trumpets just rang.

  With that being adjusted after vespers, and each gave their
  advice, and it seemed that all conspired to same thing.
  
  24. Then the next day, which was the 17th of April, leaving the
  sun, invoked the Holy Spirit of the Lord Mass solemn, and
  how that allowed the time: there were those who is strengthened
  by the sacrament of penance and communion. Made after signal bonded
  horses, saddled, removed the shops, went to the chapel, and
  offered to Lord with prayers and rites that usually these people.
  Finally at the foot of the hill squads were formed, reviewed, numbers,
  and did not appear was full ò met the army because they
  had not yet crossed the river the San Juan squads, and those
  who were there came out of their real, demonstrating their courage
  abated not enough. Those who then were present, seemed to
  reach the number of 200, debiéndose increase to 500 more, then
  it all came together. Meanwhile made his way to jubilation, à are
  trumpets and boxes.

  
  
  25. Chico Guacacay crossed the river at the foot of these mountains,
  night was seven leagues distant from the residence of San Borja:
  The following was past the hills of Arar. Having come to this
  site, went to meet the explorers, the people there set a pole
  and brought by news that the enemy had fortified the woods
  with Fagin and land checkpoints, and that did not pass the number
  of 50 men however just knew that certain thing. Bidden of all
  that was wise, and after having been ordered à masters his opinion,
  said that nothing mattered, that they would go fearlessly confident
  of the divine assistance in justice of its cause, the crowd of
  people, and also the quality of their artillery, more than the
  enemy. It halted at the same place. With all that, the suspicion
  recently had some of the people, (that is to say who had
  between one that had Luisistas trade secret the enemy) seems to be
confirmed, because the news of explored things from the enemy, with
only a distance of nearly three days' journey, the continued burning
of fields, made by the explorers to the enemy, and the same delay
in walking from here, gave some credence to what was saying.

  Seemed to the captains who were to prove this suspicion, which is
  egecutó. But the course gave Luisistas indication of his displeasure,
  when the next day, after which made the road about seven miles,
  camped on the banks ò Phacito Yaqui River, for then the captain
  of that people offered that would form the final squad, and
  more distant from the river, and in this way best, to cut off theirs
  any communication that they had with the enemy. The provision
  was good, but the reason given, said resentful spirit
  of the claimed, because "that (added) improved be known which is
  our fault. "
  
  26. In the same place this one that sent the artillery, and said
  he had not more than provision of powder for four shots of artillery,
  and this announcement caused no little care, order now because
  the powder to the towns, it seemed impossible being 100 leagues
  distant, and was ashamed, and estándose close to the enemy, missing
  the soul of the guns, and display silent parts tronarian not more
  than once. It asked the captain apparently higher, but this said
  that there were 17 loads, and each gun four, and even more,
  were brought: then clearly saw the lie of the artillery, with
  everything felt the lack of providence who had taken it.
  
  27. On Saturday in albis they began to cross the river or Phaco
  Yagi, and was found higher than what had been thought, because
  in that place is wider than all the rivers that run between these
  towns, excepting the Parana and Uruguay: therefore takes to
  pass, and just this day I traveled the Miguelistas.
  
  28. The next day, a big rain, passed with difficulty the
  Luisistas, and the Johannine, and still wait for relief of their
  own, determined to go through the last squad, and so impaired
  on Monday with the same rain, the dark about forded by swimming,
shoulder their stuff.

  
  
  29. By this time, last Sunday, our scouts, à who ordered security
  lookout for the field, found five Lorenza explorers who came after
  the Royals eve. Also said his men went on a river few miles
  distant from here, and that they also had to be fellow soldiers
  on the road. One of these, à la first night when all were
  asleep near the forest, arrived badly wounded in the face by
  a tiger: curósele, and having been sent to people, the others
  went their own to warn the army's arrival.
  

  30. On Tuesday, having dispelled the hail and fog, walked
  eight miles from the shores of Rio yagi up Curutuy River, and
  there encamped within sight of a rock of Mount San Miguel, called
  the Washing by Ibiticaray. The figure of this rock is quite remarkable,
  because as from its roots rises gently, suddenly rises to
  summit, and the ending is way to straighten wall.

  
  
  31. Wednesday April 22, but was wrong with garua and clouds, overlooking
  the banks of the river, we found grown in such Fortunately, not
  having at other times just five steps width of the bridge was essential
to throw, was due extended to include sixty.

  The bridge was made with poles stuck in the stream, these poles
  secured with rods, and these intertwined others along, and so
  gave way to the people. For this bridge, made all haste to the
  four parts artillery were transported primarily on the shoulders
  of Indians, and then the whole train of arms and horses, would
  have seen with laughter to an Indian boy go to the other party
  dog on his shoulders. But the most difficult and work was troops
  passing horses, oxen and cows, which were more than 3.000,
  for as the stream was rapid, and village in the middle of many weeds
  and small trees, to those who swam, or at all the snatch, or tangles,
and also the Sorbian and drowned.

  They threw it into the creek, by both sides, twenty swimmers,
  that impelled, forced to gather and voices hands to the horses,
  mules and other animals, until, that all that had passed many
  river. At noon it was already egército all the other band, and
  even walked the same day two or three leagues, when he had already
  fields, 30 Lorenza who followed the army, increased somewhat,
  but less than expected.

  
  32. He continued after the feast of San Marcos, and is invoked
  help of all the inhabitants of heaven, with the mass and litanies
  that are customary in the church, into the canopy or flag,
  because the long hay or grass, rain and storm all night, stopped
  the procession, and because still threatening clouds a coming storm.
  So noon were separated, but the measures taken military, but a dense
  mist moistened the earth, walked three miles, and maybe four.
  This evening the army maintained in real, because the explorers
  were sent before yesterday had not returned. The same supreme
  captain had determined to go and look, and having found after
  nightfall, and realize what pedidoles they had seen, nothing certain
  digeron, but almost this place and the sight was the enemy. Tonight,
  and Later, he became silent trumpets and boxes, so that the enemy
  did not feel the coming of the army, also the star called Sirius
  calmed the night, and also the next day.
  
  33. At break of this day will be walked nearly three miles, because
  had been moving forward, if not the army unwary too close to the
  enemy, and submit to his view: fijáronse the real ones, not in a
  circle as usual, but two lines, in order of battle, only two miles
  distant of opposites. Having been sent by the Blue River above
  towards the north, some probing the waters, in case they ford should
  find an easier, because it really not advisable to spend by the new
step, nor for which they had fortified Portuguese sentinel, so that
in this way the enemy was undertaken more unexpectedly, and all the
troops vadease unobstructed river and disgust, more easily and comfortably.

  Also some cowboys were for about a mile and rover to half the
  strength of the enemy, so Distaso only half a mile, across
  a corner or cove forest. It was learned that he had left his
  first situation, and burned the first huts or shacks, had
  located slightly above, on a hill full of mountains, which,
  the part that looks and plays the two rivers, PHAC and Blue
  running around at an angle to the forest soil showed towards
  the plain, but this was fortified with a stockade from one
  end of the forest to the opposite: in the medium they saw poles
  stuck in the land for ranching, and some sheds of all finishes.
  There was also shooting a shotgun, while exploring these
  things, but not signal was judged enemy were lookouts.
  It was also seen in the field, this part of the river, entered a
  high tufted, something that flowed quickly: it was suspected spy
  enemy, but others judged most likely the ostrich. After vespers,
  he found himself no longer had to sustain army but a little dried
  meat cooked, so that no had food but for a day, by no providence
  Indians are accustomed.

  It is ordered that the following day typically ship a messenger
  to bring cattle, and in the meantime diminuyese rations to the
  troops. This provision, HOWEVER, could not be enough for the army
  for some days no starve. At the site of the watchtower or lookout
  was maintained, with some picked men, the same captain Sepé, miguelista.

34.
  He entered the night with a horrible looking towards the South:
  any frigidísima was, and also the next day, April 27: with returned
  all browsers that had gone by the two part. These digeron, saw
  no movement in the border none of the enemy. Those assurances that
  the private sector that is had found was not far from the rivers,
  or the site the enemy. At dawn, then he leaned towards there all
  army, and opening the way with axes through the forest, which
  is on either side, moved to noon the real back to the place,
  leaving behind only a few patients, with the custodian
  of their souls, or priest.
  
  35. Day 28 (Sunday) the whole army was busy putting together a
  bridge, as it was done in the river Washing, although this was
  greater, and required the work of an entire day. Meanwhile,
  took all the horses to a valley, which is amenity extends along
  the banks of the Rio Verde, and also posed there the shepherd of
  their souls, with others, that they might insurance. By putting
  the moon in the most untimely of the night, marched against the
  payment of the Portuguese, moved to four houses, killed two
  black, having escaped in the forest two Portuguese immediately
  with their wives, who's there went to the fortress to give notice
  of the enemy that rushing: the enemy also took a party of horse
  grazing in the same place, leaving one dead Lorenza. Besides
  this, the dawn came to the strength, making them the easiest
  access fog, and what was admirable, it being clear elsewhere on
  strong, was thicker for the watching and snares from the top,
  which gave hope of victory.
 