 

Do not stop to China, which comes with an interpreter, he said that I was the country where
could live happy and free: the Tatars had invaded it they placed all blood and fire, while the reverend
Jesuit Fathers on the one hand, and the reverend fathers Dominicans second, they said winning
souls for heaven, without anybody noticing. Have never been more zealous converters, are chasing
each other with the most fervent ardor, wrote Rome whole volumes of libel, and tried by a faithless
infidels and soul. There was an awful row between them about how to do the courtesy, the Jesuits
The Chinese wanted to greet their parents to the fashion of China, and Dominicans it was the
fashion of Rome. Sucediome the Jesuits thought I was a Dominican, and they told him that His
Majesty was Tartara spy of the Pope. Commission gave the supreme council a first mandarin
to arrest me, the qual command a sheriff, who had at his command four brackets, which seized
me, and I bound with all ceremony. Conduxeronme, after hundred and forty prostrations, before
His Majesty, I wonder if I was a spy of the Pope and if it was true that the prince had to
come in person to dethrone him. I replied that Pope was a clergyman of more than seventy years,
that his statements were far more than four thousand miles those of his Sacred Majesty Tartaro-China,
that his army was two thousand soldiers standing guard with a para-waters not anyone dethroned,
and I could sleep without His Majesty fear. This was the least fatal adventure of my life, as did
more than send me to Macao, where I embarked for Europe.

It was necessary to caulk the ship off the coast of Golconda, and
I take advantage of the opportunity to see the court of the Aurengzeb,
of whom there were then a thousand wonders.

It was this monarch in Delhi, and enjoy the taste imponderable façade to façade behold the day
of the pompous ceremony that received the heavenly gift that he sent the sheriff of Mecca, and was
the broom which had swept the holy house, the Kaaba, the Belho-Allah: broom is a symbol that alimpia
all the filth of the soul. It appears that did not need Aurengzeb, who was the male more Hindustan
religious whole, since it had beheaded one of his brothers, and given poison his father, and had
destroyed a scaffold twenty Omra rajas and many others, but That did not mean anything, and
nobody talked about anything but his devotion to whom is the of no other comparable, as it was
not that of the sacred majesty of the Most Serene Emperor Morocco, Mulcy Ishmael, qual a quantas
heads cut every Friday, after to prayer.

No article I word that I had chastened the voyages, and knew it was not competent judge to adjudicate
between these two August sovereign.

I confess, however, that a French boy, who locked, lacking the respect due to the emperors of India
and Marruceos, saying with great imprudence in Europe had very principles governing sovereign
rightly his states, and also frequeentaban churches, without taking life so their parents and
siblings or cut the head of his vassals. Our language interpreter realized expressions india
impias of this boy. I trained with him on other occasions I had happened, send saddle camels, and
went with the French. Later I learned that night had come and fetch him great Aurengzeb officials, and
not having found more than the interpreter, was this executed in the main square, without flattery
confessed all that was very fair palace his death.

Quedabame to see the Africa to enjoy all the delights of our hemisphere, and saw effect. Black
corsairs seized my vessel.

My boss complaining bitterly, and ask them for violating the laws of nations. He was answered
by Captain black: Your nose is long, and our flat, your hair is smooth, and our wool curl, your
skin is ashen-gray color and our Ebony, therefore under the sacrosanct laws of nature, we
must always be enemies.