 Shrinkage is the same fearful and vengeful greet
the inmates with their bosses.

The deal with the Arabs had agreed to ship Morenito of the Moors of Morocco, counting some of
their raids along the coasts of Africa. In the morning, when he washed the air free, naked from
the waist up, producing deep admiration the seams and scars that studded his body, memories,
according to him, heroic battles by sea and land against the tyranny of custom. Another reason
was the saberle respect of a large knife holder although the records were the crew of the ship
in dangerous people; knife no one had seen but often mentioned in his bravado. Maltrana, knowledgeable
the customs of the prison, we imagined what the place could keep the bully indeclarable this weapon,
which was like the scepter of his menacing majesty.

- Sit for a poquiyo, Don Isidro, and rest ... You, take a seat cabayero
ar ... I was these guys proposing a negosio, a rich haserse safe mode.

Maltrana from his canvas chair, was huddled around, his jaw between hands, all admirers of Morenito,
like a tribe of warriors in Council.

The Malaga spoke with his mouth twisted, expelling the words of one of its corners, to make
the audience feel the greatness of his goodness as a teacher.

- These lads are a few pigeons, Don Isidro, ranging wildly America and the rich haser others ...
as in their homeland. But they came here, arrastraos, puppets! What for this you have embarcao
you?

... Look, Don Isidro: some think ar dir working field to sweat shirts;
other breeding quieen get a big house ... And I suggest to these people
Stork do a split: one started as it had endenantes.

There have not seen this ever before new thing. What paese? ...

And exposing his plan with enthusiasm.

- A started, and we took a richachón there and kidnap you, you family Peim a few million, with
amenasa that we will cut off the ears, give us the million Bueno handed out to us as brothers, and
six months before we Guert and rich. A started we would have much to do. Nah, you don Isidro,
er would be captain. (Here Maltrana greeted thanking, apologizing with a gesture of modesty.)
No, not us jaga er small.

I know Nah, you own what you Tié well as mu ... and believe that I understand these things. In addition,
tie talent pa too, and I am a man who respects the wisdom ... The Morenito, Antonio Diaz, a servior,
er would lieutenant, toos these lads already Bueno despabilarían with such directors. Huh? What
I paese? Is not it a verdaero negosio?

Isidro nodded with imperturbable gravity.

Yes, a good deal worth to be studied carefully and the operation of a new industry. Almost
have to ask for a patent, to prevent counterfeiting. And the gullible boys who listened to in silence
because Morenito were at sea, far from any possibility of action, but inwardly abhorred these
plans that were struggling with the concerns of his honesty, They looked hesitant to see a
Mr. and Mr. Isidro not shocked.

- Do you hear, Panolis? - Said the bully -. Look how a cabayero he knows is too Güena my idea is
... But if you fart pa kidneys get the money to a rich, are able to pa started to chase the
Indians. There are many, many! American attack railways and trams errands and even outside the
poblasiones, I I've seen many times in the sinematógrafos. And Buenos Aires is in America,
and there hasen Farta resolusión men who tell those chocolate-colored
gruel with feathers the cabesa: "Hey, it's over, no longer vex you
further to the meeting, because we do not feel like it."

And hunt them down like rabbits, and the government, agradesío, we pay both cabesa, and in
a few years we ca jasemos one with a little fortune to land golves pa. There will be a very
rich quick as with the kidnapping, but is argo argo, and it is always
better than gutting lumps er or serve chocolate in bed to the Lords.

Do not you paese, Don Isidro?

And Don Isidro approved again. An idea as good as the previous, also should be asked privilege,
that the government did not allow Indians kill more than the departure
of Mr. Antonio Moreno.

He admired the heroic records run through this man to get rich without
resorting to vulgarity of the ordinary work, reserved for other mortals.

And some remained Isidro time, listening to the plans of the adventurer who was lost to America
four centuries late.

Honesty in alarm timid listeners formulated comments.

- But there are prisons - said a -.

There are policemen.

- There will be more brave than Sevil and the police of our country - said the Morenito arrogantly
-. I know what that is ... Bah! I eat them!

- But the Indians will not spank as well - argued another. People should be brave ... savage
people.

- For those - said contemptuously bully - to those like me also.

He approached the group a new listener, greeting Maltrana, with a subtle smile, which had something
fun for the bully.

- Here's Don Juan - said Isidro -. This does not come into our game, not a man who serve for the
case.

- No sah, not fall - said the Morenito -. A Don Juan, in their tomes sacale not serve Cursed
thing pa ... Mu Güena person cabayero mu, but it will not win on his life two pesetas.

He was tall and lean meat, with long beards that despite his youth made him look venerable. Her voice
was sweet and unhurried gestures, in his words interpolating a laugh discrete, which was the
eternal support of their conversation.

According Maltrana this friend breathed optimism and confidence in life, spreading around his
person a happy environment. And yet, living in the deck, mixed with the herd immigrant, without other
considerations that granted him his traveling companions, captivated
by the sweetness of his character and the superiority of education.

Their costumes, old and frayed, were of good cut, were noticed in his person the traces of a more
prosperous. In his hands was as fine I remember an old familiar ring, saved from the constraints
of poverty.

The Curious Maltrana knew something of his life. Juan Castillo was an agronomist who had tried panllevar
on inherited land from their parents doing all the advances learned in a large school of Belgium
poet dreams of setting made with the momentum of a will enthusiastic and credulous. Usury
had provided a small capital for company, and after several years struggling with the routine
of the peasants, to accustom live in peace with the machines and
remove the veins deep underground liquid to scatter in irrigation
networks, when the earth began to respond to these efforts with its
first products, the creditors had fallen on him, running with glacial
ferocity.

- I know the procedure - had said Maltrana to hear first -.

Is the same cannibal tribes. They gave you food, they left undisturbed for to cast cavities, and when
it was ready, bam! the slaughter and cannibal feast.

Fleeing the destruction, loss of inheritance from their parents, lost
credit, debt dishonored to giving its creditors a criminal nature,
all for wanting to innovate under their studies a stationary agriculture
almost equal to that of the early days of mankind.

And in his flight had looked to the south, and all who sailed in
that steel shell, sensing ocean beyond the circle a land renewed daily
stock refurbished, where lives are shattered as well as contracted
virginal buds to start a new course of evolution.

Hope also had grazed his flapping illusory. Most celebrated this ruin that had uprooted from
the fatherland. Who knew what was coming across the ocean? ...

Morenito leaving the group, moved toward the bow Maltrana and Castillo.

A plaintive voice made them stop.

- Don Isidro! ... Good afternoon, Don Isidro and the company!

A man sitting on the floor, leaning against the railing, his face pale advanced the folds of a
blanket.

- Is that you, sick? - Said Maltrana -.

How's the mood?

With sorrowful voice murmured a complaint against endless sea. Since its entry into the vessel,
health seemed to have fled his body. Others sang at all hours, as if the salty air and the
vast blue should give them new strength, excite your appetite. He had embarked feeling strong,
and suddenly all his energy leaving him.

- I am very ill, Don Isidro. Yesterday I could still only cover up and today have had some friends
push me upstairs. I must be white as a sheet, do you, sir ... I have
no strength to walk, or desire to eat.

This is not going ... Others complain of heat; say that more and
more bites the sun, and I tremble if I remove the blanket ... And
what gives me more Rabies is that the medical officer Carmelo and
others look at me as if they had been deceived, and say that if they
know this board will not let me because back in Buenos Aires do not
want sick ... But sir, if I embarked healthy and good!, If this wretched
sea that I test!

...

Believing Maltrana see the same gesture of doubt the employees of the ship, he hastened to add:

-
I have been an oak, Don Isidro. Rheumatism just as the doctor said my people from sleeping in the
open field many nights. But out of this ... nothing. I swear my name: Pachín Muiños. And now, suddenly,
I am actually a rag, and I drown, sir, legs can not have me and I
lack the strength to go from one corner to another.

What I have wanted out of here! ... I'm sure I'll just jump to another land, feel again strong
as in my town ... Say, sir, when we arrived in Buenos Aires?

Eagerly asked the question, was incorporated to look beyond the gunwale. To spread their seen
by the immensity, expect to find on the horizon the black profile
of the coveted land.

- Take two days? - He asked.

- Plus, a little
more - Maltrana said softly to deceive his impatience.

- How many
more? - Continued tenaciously ill.

And guess Maltrana evasive words
were still many days of travel, Muiños poor relapsed into despair
... Buenos Aires!

Wanted to get as soon as possible at the end of the trip, and repeated
the name of the city, like I found in him a miraculous power equal
to the ancient cabalistic words.

Isidro after console with misleading statements, ensuring that within a week would land slippage
back to Castillo to the departure gate.

- Hope! - Said sadly -. The poor are very sick, it lacks the strength to be feet, and moves, however,
from one hemisphere to another in search of health and money.

What of dreams are in the shell with all of us! ...

- And if he were alone - said Castillo -. But he accompanied his wife and three children.

The illusion of health had been uprooted from their village. Back in Galicia could not work a
full week without the effort would attract the disease. The image of America had gone through his
misery like a glow of hope. In the land of fortune where everyone is transformed, he would another
man. And spare a few months of rest and slack, because of having sold their huts and cows, Muiños
entered the ship with a deceptive appearance of healthy man. The atmosphere of the sea and
life on board had been fatal for him every day after marking a decline of his health.

- What he thinks rheumatism - Castillo said - is, as a ship's doctor,
a failure heart, which begins to unravel with alarming bronchitis.

To know what you stop! The wife and children, accustomed to their illness, do not look at
him. She gossip with other women, and boys play or eagerly await
the time of the ranch.

Y Muiños poor when drowning in the steerage, the deck wrapped up in his coat to lie in the
sun, and asked how many days left to get where we are still at the
beginning Travel ... Needless to say the truth.

His dream, which has been concentrated in Buenos Aires, we to forget the time and distance.
Cree deceive you when you say that there are still many days. When asked excitedly Tenerife spot
if we were in Buenos Aires.

Morning, see from afar the islands of Cape Verde, will believe that
we have ... Unhappy!

All that we are on the ship is the most thought in Buenos Aires, and it could happen that would
the only one who came to see him.

Maltrana Castillo said goodbye at the gate dividing class inviolable border States that started in
two different floating microcosm.

Up on the promenade deck, Fernando found next to one of the living
room windows that gave birth to the inner shelf occupied by the piano.

Isidro wanted to talk, but his friend put his finger to his lips imposing silence. Miró then
out the window and saw a woman sitting at the piano. Reached his ears at the same time muted
music and the whisper of a singing softly.

- It's Tristan - Ojeda softly whispered in his ear -. The desperate cry of Iseo.

The two remained silent on both sides of the window, listening to the songs coming with distances
inside a dream.

Maltrana less sensitive to musical emotion, examined back to this
woman, watch your neck white as ivory slightly sombrecida old.

The helmet of hair near the roots had a golden tender, who was coloring it to take on the
reddish surface of copper fregoteado. His neck was leaning front with a slender anemic, a fragility
that marked the tendons under the skin and arteries dilated by the faint emission of the voice.

Suddenly,
his face became invisible to them, as if she had noticed his presence. Saw some eyes whose pupils
were dilated ash color by surprise face of pale green, somewhat emaciated,
which instantly colored blush access.

She looked frightened that someone might listen.

With a gesture of shyness and contrariness closed the instrument, stood up and walked to the door of
the room to escape the two bothersome.

Ojeda followed with his eyes. She was tall, thin and sickly was masked in part tough at the skeleton.
Marked his bony hips firmly under a clear lack of denim. The funny hair piled with neglect, little
white shoes worn, modest blouse homemade, total lack of jewelry,
gave her figure an aspect of poverty of cheerfully, uncertainty borne
with resignation bohemia.

- You know that everybody here - asked
Ojeda -: Who is it?

- For some time now would you know if I was allowed
to speak ... Is the wife of director Orchestra operetta company: a
pimply-faced blonde, who spends day and night bocks taking coffee
with their troop.

Good strainer, there are times that felt rounds pile on the table as a column ... And when
they drink beer, whiskey or whatever supports fall. No other occupation in the vessel tipple.

- It's an interesting woman - muttered Ojeda -. And so shy! ...

Waited all afternoon to the salon has been deserted. Families descended to their cabins nap;
other passengers were sleeping in chairs along the promenade, only remained some in the winter
garden. Then, almost on tiptoe, went to the piano, and just put your fingers on the keyboard,
seemed to forget her shyness, isolation from outside world lazy eye and no light, as if his
gaze focused inward and her singing was a weak escape, a far cry from memories of other music
that sounded in it.

To see Fernando in the piano, had been curious about his music.

Perhaps a sweet and sentimental romance of operetta! ... And yet he lasted the surprise I had
experienced to hear the great words of pain Iseo.

- Must have a great voice, do not you think so, Isidro? ... Let me be your friend ... You must
know.

Maltrana apologized, somewhat disappointed that at this time not possible to boast a friend.
He had hardly noticed her: SHP! Women of that drunken director orchestra! ... Was somewhat surly,
people fleeing, only it was with the other ladies company. He lived for his son, a toddler with a huge
head, always clinging to his hand. A Greetings Maltrana always answered with a nod and a manifest
desire to flee. Moreover, as women are not worth much: it looked sick. The first time you
set it was by the jeers of a few girls elegant greenish pallor commented: "There is that of
the operetta. He has ruptured gall and has stirred the whole body. "

- But it does not matter, Ojeda, because the lady was interested in what Wagner singing, I introduce
it. Know something husband, we drank together. He called Hans ... Hans Eichelberger, that is,
the teacher Hans. And she ... you wait, her name is Mina.

Now remember that husband called that, and he told me, is a diminutive of Wilhelmina. The teacher speaks
some Spanish: has gone by Argentina and Chile in other musical forays. I think it very little.

The two friends moved to the stern, stopping at the railing near the coffee on the cover third
class. Sailors had raised a part of the awning and looked below the boiling of the northern
migration, hairy people who despite the heat retained their fur coats. Sounded the twang of an accordion
with the hurried pace of the dance Russian. A girl with short skirt, boots and green scarf polonaises,
on whose tip peeked a lock of red hair, was spinning to the beat of the music. Around her, a tall
boy purple shirt danced on his knees or held in balance with the legs portentous nearly horizontal
and the buttocks near the ground. The shouting and clapping from the other Russian accompanied
these crazy dance agility of gymnastics.

Polish Jews and galitzianos, wrapped greatcoat in their priestly character, watched the show
scratching their beards lingering, contracting the thickets of eyebrows almost joined.

- The people who come here! - Said Fernando - And to think that is the name of an unknown city
the vague prestige of a distant land that brought us together diverse people from birth! ...

-
Twenty-eight people, according to Carmelo the police station, we have been on the vessel and
same applies to other ocean liners. Is not it true, Ojeda, this seems to progress in mass of
the peoples of Europe when the Crusaders? ... Recently, I remembered
me down, the crowds who followed Peter the Hermit.

Marched sick, faint from hunger, and every time I sighted a small town burst into shouts of joy:
"Jerusalem! It Jerusalem! ". And they were still at the center of Europe: in Germany or Hungary.
Down in the bow, you have an heir of the heroes of hope. Seriously ill will, it is possible
from reaching the end of the journey, and every time we see an island, a coast, is galvanized
and asked if Buenos Aires.

- Humanity is illusion, Maltrana.

We need to put our hope away, on land unknown, as the distance removes doubt and gives certainty
to the most inverisímil. For Europeans, the wonderland was Baghdad of the Arabian Nights and
a night, whereas in my travels the East, I have seen Jews and Muslims assume treasures and
ancient magic in Toledo.

When the poets of the South imagine something wonderful, place the stage on the strengths of
Rhine or the Scandinavian fjords. At Dream Castle Monsalvat Wagner puts mansion the Holy Grail in
the Spanish Pyrenees and gives a Moorish palace in the charming Klingsor. The our environment is
too real for us to grow in our dreams.

- Yes, Fernando. But human hope, that in the past was purely mystical and That might look to the
East, is now positive, pins its hopes on the material welfare and heads to the West. We all
want to be rich, we need to be, and this hope communicated to distant lands prestige of illusion.
Centuries ago, people push went to Peru, yesterday dreamed of humanity with the treasures of California,
and there were at mass men's adventure today begins to mingle with
the grandeur of the United States radiation arising from a new city-hope:
Buenos Aires.

Tomorrow - interrupted Ojeda - pilgrims of wealth, twisting his way, will be poured the islands
of Oceania, and perhaps the future of Jerusalem will be in thousands of years somewhere in the
Pacific, where at this time colean sharks and swell and deflate the solitary waves.

The human desire to put the city of hope over any land taken out of fund waters by a convulsion
of the planet, maybe on the infusoria madreporic atolls I was petrified
at that time with slow and patient work multimillenary ... Never missing
on the globe a place that would appeal to the restless and energetic
men, unhappy with their destination, eager to change their position.

-
It will become bigger this pilgrimage - said Maltrana -.

We feel the urgent need of money as not felt our grandparents, and those who come after the
experience more momentum than us. I want to be rich, I have no shame in confessing it, is all that worries
me. Need to know what you mean by wealth, and get going ... may. And you, Fernando? ...

He smiled slightly. I also wanted to be rich, and had uprooted craving old world, releasing it
on full adventure, as the miserable who crowded in Plaice of emigration. I needed a happy fortune to be
believed. And yet ... Who knows, wealth is not happiness, it never has been, at best, be accepted
as a means to affirm ... Perhaps even this was true. Wagner remembered the legend Ring of the
Nibelung, the miracle of the Rhine gold, symbol of world power. Who had was lord of the universe,
the absolute master of all riches, but to conquer it had than to
curse the love, give it up forever.

- And love, Maltrana, and other
feelings, are worth more than treasure. I am poor and walked in search
of money because I see in it a guarantee of safety and rest to deal
peacefully in other businesses to my taste. But if someone make me
see that the wealth should pay with the renunciation of love, I swear
I jumped to the ground at the first port to return to Europe.

Isidro
shrugged dismissively. Fantasy Artist! Musings of a poet! What had
to see the love and wealth to put them together, as antithetical and
unmistakable? ... He wanted to be rich to be, to know the sweetness
of the most irresistible of powers proud and selfish satisfactions
provided by the so-called "power of domination." And if to do so had
to give up the pleasant follies of love and other feelings the world
looks with a traditional respect, I was soon to slaughter