 As Rose needed this and not was meeting, I
had to look separately.

CREMATURGO .-- I do not really Avenger. Not to be litter and nothing else. Farewell, ungrateful
(Exit)

EUMORFO .-- Nor I am resigned to be a butterfly unintelligent, especially
when out of love I had already put yours to study philosophy.

Infamous Goodbye! (Exit)

SCENE XI.

Asclepigenia, Proclus.

Mulch and butterfly .-- Asclepigenia leave me. Do I abandon you too, Proclus mine?

PROCLEAN .-- I confess that my soul is shattered. Maybe I would do well to escape from your side
forever, but there is a force that keeps me close to you. In vain I wanted to spiritualize,
sanctify the ancient civilization, cheerful and fond of beauty, but light. No success, however,
to divorce her. I am of her. I'm hopelessly yours. The embarrassing and hard disappointment not
kill the love of my heart to demolish the entire philosophical edifice with so much zeal and
I had raised arrogance. I figure that falls on me the just punishment of pride spirit. The spirit
turned away with scorn of nature, wanted to rise atop the intelligence and facts; struggled
to move beyond being itself, aspired to be confused with the immutable principle of all being.
The mystical union, that I am therefore proud, was not illusion definitely unhealthy. The indefinable
principle of being, which I thought to join, and which all claimed to be denied, was not: it
was nothing. My supposed identification with death he was selfish. No death was generous of
him who, loving life, knows how to give for the triumph of a noble idea, for their country,
for the happiness of the beloved. My itching to get lost in the A, absorbed, impersonal, that
everything is itself and nothing is the most monstrous perversion of the spirit. Is not able
to live and enjoy within the various and beautiful universe. Is to create a mystique opposite
of love. Mysticism refocuses my soul: love the spread. Point the spirit of nature, what can
you expect but what and I regret it now?

Or the delusion that nothing takes the principle of being, or the
baseness, the lowering the impure rude and brutal appetite for material
pleasures, which has won the nature, in society and in every thought,
when the spirit leaves them.

In contrast, What value is the spirit that moves away from the real world, believing and worshiping
the divine worship to himself? Or to resist the blows of misfortune more vulgar retained sufficient
vigor. What will power I have? I can only vile and cowardly resignation or die penalty here,
as nervous little woman. What a shame! I can not.

Alas!

(Proclus falls unconscious in the chair long.)

Atenais .-- Asclepigenia! Atenais! Attend! Oh calamity! Go, bring
a bottle of essences.

We ran out of philosophy! There is no longer possible philosophy. Since there are only positive sciences
and prosaic. I killed my philosopher.

(He leans over him and embraced him with the greatest tenderness.)
Smells bad, but ... Is so wise!

Is so good!

SCENE XII.

SUCH, ATESTAIS.

(Atenais Asclepigenia helps care for Proclus, using a jar of scents
to their noses)

Atenais .-- Calm down.

It's nothing. And regains consciousness.

Asclepigenia .-- I have been a good scare! Poor thing my dear! Too bad it gave me!

Proclus. (Gets up.) - Forgive me, friend. It was a moment of weakness.

(Repairing in Atenais.) Who is this dashing damsel?

Asclepigenia .-- It Atenais, daughter of Leonard.

PROCLEAN .-- The daughter of my learned and illustrious friend! ... Heaven bless you, Atenais!

Asclepigenia
.-- Will you forgive me, Proclus?

PROCLEAN .-- Say no more of the past: forget it.

Asclepigenia .-- Will you live with me?

PROCLEAN .-- I do not want and I can live without you. You are the star that illuminates with its gentle
light the melancholy evening of my life. These soft white hands (making hers) sealed with love
when they meet my eyes to sleep the last sleep.

Contigo .-- Asclepigenia not miss neither wealth nor the body beautiful
... What else beauty that more wealth than the treasures of your soul?

If required, we will live to the fullest strait. Something I can spoil the cook's hands and clothing
remendarte. Elegance, dedication, the scent of aristocratic distinction will vanish almost entirely
when live miserably. But what matter? Do I possess your soul and mine?

PROCLEAN .-- There has to be. Not consent to be lost or deteriorate even a spark or an atom
of all the beauty that nature gave you and that art has been completed
and enhanced.

I earn wealth for you.

For you will have lush beauty and youth body.

Asclepigenia .-- Do not freak out, Proclus.

The youth is gone, never returns.

Venus Urania not visited you for no reason.

As for wealth, I certainly did not ever win a mite with all your
philosophy, unless that appeals to the miracle.

PROCLEAN .-- Well, the miracle appealed.

Now you will see who I am. Here I love you, oh Theurgy! For something I have to serve. So far, Asclepigenia
idolized, and have owned in Eumorfo in Crematurgo beauty, youth and
wealth, quotas, limited and outdated.

From now on later you will have youth, beauty and wealth at all and forever. Saved religious silence.
And starts the spell.

(Deep silence. Proclus, waving his stick, he draws air in circles, and other magical figures,
and muttered unintelligible words. Hear celestial music, slow and submissive. In the center of
the theater is a brilliant and candid curdled cloud with carmine red glow, gold and pearl.)

And Atenais Asclepigenia .-- What wonder!

PROCLEAN .-- Hiding in the cloud you already have, at your service
and your service, replacing Eumorfo and Crematurgo, the archer Apollo,
the most elegant and beautiful of the gods, and the son of Jasion
and Ceres, Pluto the blind, a dispenser of wealth.

Want to go with retinues of muses, graces, nymphs, genii, or go alone?

Asclepigenia

.-- To go out alone. And asking them to go in the time convenient, everything I can think of.

PROCLEAN
.-- Appear gods!

(Opens the cloud, and out of her bright Bengal, Pluto, lame, blind and winged, and Apollo, very
bizarre and airy, with a purple robe, crown of laurel and lyre in
hand.)

PROCLEAN .-- What else do you have to ask?

Asclepigenia .-- Nothing. I was content to your love.

PROCLEAN .-- reflect, however, if something is missing.

Asclepigenia .-- If I am not accused of being overrun beggar and demanding,
yet I would ask one thing.

PROCLEAN .-- What?

Asclepigenia .-- That you wash.

PROCLEAN .-- I'll wash.

Already
.-- Atenais happy.

Possess science, beauty, youth, wealth and even toilet. I, helpless and needy, far from envy
you, rejoice.

PROCLEAN .-- Heaven will reward you, generous Atenais. Yo, I'm now inspired, I read in the future
your eminent destiny. The younger Theodosius, who educates her sister Pulcheria well, so shine
on the imperial throne, will marry you.

So you will be Empress of the East. Will be happy and powerful without resorting to magic, but
will have to make a Christian. Finally, for that our glory and our happiness are more wonderful
and McCabe, after passing chop or fourteen centuries, counting from the day of the date shown
on the smiling and fertile Betic cradle of the dynasty and home to your grandfather Theodosius
the Great Political and countless other Eminent persons, a witty
and truthful writer, which is to write about Tonight's events in a
dialogue, where trying to compete with the divine Plato in the high
and severe, and the satirist Lucian in the funny and cheerful.

I Atenais .-- Much of idle if your predictions are true.

Asclepigenia .-- And me too. I fear, however, that this dialogue, which Proclus announces, is
a extravaganza without amenities and without liveliness, where we figured, not as real people,
but as allegorical characters, where Proclus and I represent the old and corrupt sensual poetry
ancient knowledge and exhausted, desperate and barren, that are delivered live together to witchcraft
and superstitions.

Atenais .-- If the allegory may have some application when the dialogue is written, perhaps interested
in dialogue.

Asclepigenia .-- Whatever happens, should not matter much.

There you are the author.

Five of us, mortals and gods, come to the couch, where I have prepared
a succulent and spicy dinner.

GODS AND DEATH .-- Let's go to dinner.

GOPA

PHILOSOPHICAL DIALOGUE IN THREE PICTURES.

TABLE I.

The scene is Capilavastu City: 593 years before Christ.

Interior of the magnificent palace of Prince Siddhartha. It is night. House of the thalamus,
lit a lamp of gold.

GOPA .-- PRATYAPATI.

PRATYAPATI .-- The king's servants more vigilant Sudono roam around the palace. The city ??gates
are defended. Not go away. It must not go. Without it what will of
us?

With equal vehemence we love him, though in different ways. I love him like my son. When, shortly
after giving life, died BU mother Maya Devi, their request was Siddhartha to my care. They
did not want the gods that she lived, so they do not suffer what we have today.

GOPA .-- Immense pain overwhelms us. Why irremediable blight her beautiful face sad? Why you want
to leave? What's missing, what is waning in me? I would have preferred to gods, as he preferred
to Nal Damayanti.

My fortune is estimated to obey with humility and be all yours.

Ungrateful! Your heart can not be still insatiable in my love. His noble head never lying still
on my breast.

I no longer love. Judge me unworthy of her affection.

.-- PRATYAPATI
not torment yourself, oh Gopa! Siddhartha loves you. To him you are
the favorite to be among all beings. But love is grief. Love is his
martyrdom. Love is devoured, creating in his soul an infinite pity,
not condone nor delight, nor joy, nor peace alone. All the evils of
life weigh on your heart, comprising in their affection the lives
of the three worlds. Love, eldest son of nature, by a fatal expansion
of its divine essence, be given to that lives, and life was born the
pain, poverty, disease and death. It seems that Siddhartha is the
embodiment, the avatar of love, weeping and regrets having created
life; itself suffering as every life has suffered, and longs to roll
back the life to nothing for the suffering ends.

Ephemeral .-- GOPA's
life: the suffering that emerges should be too.

PRATYAPATI .-- No,
Gopa, life has no end. Death is change, no end. Entrained in the current
life, so moved, but not of essence, which always comes back reborn
or for pain. In this sense, the gods, the asuras, and men are equally
immortal.

GOPA .-- And there is no happy?

PRATYAPATI .-- None. Unhappiness
is the first condition of life.

GOPA .-- Why Love created life, and
unhappiness with her?

PRATYAPATI .-- For Love was not free. As the
spring sun rays as the water flows from the source and flowed and
flowed Love life. Just sublime compassion moved, under superior effort
to the human and divine, collecting itself with portentous abstraction,
Love achieved also record themselves and give life eternal stillness.

GOPA
.-- I see you think like Siddhartha. Clap, no doubt, its purpose,
I do not understand.

PRATYAPATI .-- To some extent I like him but
its purpose is bold, it seems impossible, and bold and impossible
not applaud. If he was called, as he thinks, to be the deliverer of
men, I would and would gladly sacrifice a few to do to achieve it.

GOPA
Pratyapati .-- Oh! How mixed feelings are ours! If you love him as
mother, I, as a wife, a woman in love I love him. This mode of love
is less strong, usually the mother's love. Mother's love is much that
is born from the womb and rooted there. So, not only women but the
same fierce love their offspring. The woman in love with a man when
he just loves to love from the heart, does not love you more he loves
his mother, but when you love with love the spirit, love you a thousand
and a thousand times the most loving mother, she idolizes, he looks
like a god, have faith in him, he believed capable of everything great
and everything good and thinks that his will, which is law for it
must be born a miracle, the good and happiness for all. I do not know,
I do not understand the purpose of Siddhartha, but I know and understand
it will be good purpose, and to achieve, if you want. If by that I
do to achieve the greatest sacrifice I am eager to make.

PRATYAPATI
unhappy .-- Oh weak woman! What miserable resignation is yours? You
alone can Prince stop chain with the delight of your affection, but
the veneration Prince excites you inspires you to break that chain.
Violence will not be enough to keep him, but if your soft white arms
intrigue you, how do you depart from each other to go where dreams
that their vocation is calling? The king puts his hope in you. Not
disappoint. Retaining Siddhartha the spell of your love and your beauty.
Do not let him since .... Sorry steps. Siddhartha is coming. I will
not be staying here. Courage, Gopa oh!

(Goes Pratyapati.)

GOPA .--
Encouragement .... I needed to stop him, not need. I need to leave
from all my courage.

(Enter the Prince.