 Stood the Lord visited in her living room, casting a hand sitting
with some friends, and finally have a real set with gold only cases, fails and dwarf king, when he
entered his butler and, calling him aside, said:

- A gentleman wants to talk at the moment with his lordship.

- Any unwelcome! Come back tomorrow. Did not he say his name?

- No, sir, but gave me two ounces of gold for message passing, and
as it was decent await answers in the hall, I did enter the study
room.

- And you say he has given two ounces of Alboroque!

Well, it has to be something of importance that brings to this subject.

And

turning to his gatherings, he said:

- Excuse me, gentlemen, I shall soon return, and Don Narciso play for me. It's life which I have
been very battered, and not give it to my worst enemy!

And Don José Antonio went to the study, which was located in the backyard.

Sitting there there a muffled that at present Areche, was discovered and said politely:

- Good and holy nights.

- This is God's. Hello, hello, sir! What has been released from jail without my permission?

-
It did not, sir Visitor. I gave my word, and I will comply, to return soon to prison.

- I guess what you is ... to talk, no doubt, of their cause.

- Precisely, Mr. Inspector.

- For time lost, my friend. I see you in a bad horse, and with heavy heart I have to be severe,
that the king has sent me to walk with softness and contemplations.

In your case there are documents and witnesses atrocities beyond reproach and whose statements
are sufficient envelopes to send to the gallows ten neighbors of
his caliber.

I am very straight, and given If I do not administer justice or with the mother who bore me.

-
Well, Mr. Inspector, against everything he says his lordship is grave
in my process I possess a thousand arguments compelling, yes, sir,
a thousand arguments.

And it is best to be friends and we stop fighting, which only serve to bring uneasiness, and
to raise bad blood fat broth scribes and Pharisees.

- Why, if you so confident to be out gracefully, has not made use
of its arguments?

And would like to see one to refute.

- If the Lord visited me and
keep my anger has not the secret, which strictly speaking diréle are
my arguments.

- Speak clearly and as Christ teaches.

Present myself one of its arguments, and keep nine hundred ninety-nine,
which left no time or opportunity is there for it take care of them.

Then the sheriff put his hand in his pocket, and between the thumb
and the index took an ounce of gold.

- Do you see your honor this
argument?

- This is a pelucon, Mr. mayor!

- For a thousand arguments
of its kind I have ready to cut the process.

And good night, Mr. Inspector, that the hours fly and the word is the word.

And step between step, the mayor took the road to prison.

As the lord of Areche refer that back cogitabundo to take his seat
at the table triplet, which all night long did not play in order,
and that for the first time in his life, he committed two resignations,
clear evidence of the concern of his mind.

III

What demonche! I'm not cursing, but in the story are facts that bring to a crazy.

And proof that Don Jose Antonio de Areche did not play very clean,
they say, the performance of the committee that the King entrusted
him with, is that, despite everything, his majesty was forced to dismiss
him, calling him to Spain, confiscating the property, and sentenced
him to live exiled from the village and court of Madrid.

The day after the interview with the visitor, was released and dismissed the prisoner in the case.

And
keep your faith in the incorruptibility of justice!

I mean, if the boys would smoke a pipe, sheriff's arguments!

THE GIRL'S CRAVINGS

Belief was widespread among our ancestors that pregnant women should
indulge even in its most extravagant whims.

Opposing them was equivalent to ruin the work done. Y Galen's disciples were the major contributors
to invigorate this view, if we give credit to many medical theses or dissertations, which printed in
Lima in several years, can be found in Volume XXIX Various Papers of the National Library.

His women are curious, and enough that they were forbidden to enter
the cloisters Lean On all walks convents.

There was, therefore, in the last century to Lima would not travel
from the cell prior to the kitchen or abbess.

As soon as the family's daughter Eva was presented in an interesting,
little sisters, friends and even the maids were cast to fix agenda
for the month of pilgrimage to the monasteries.

And the best morning he appeared ten or twelve covered on the goal
of San Francisco, for example, and the most lively of them said, addressing
the lego porter

- Ave Maria pure!

- Conceived without sin.

What is offered, sisters?

- Let you go where the Rev. Father Superior and say that this girl, and sight is, is abultadita, which
has a fancy walking the convent, and that we come accompanied by
a job if it happens.

- But many a layman !...-- muttered under his
breath.

- We are all family: the good girl is his aunt carnal, these
two are her sisters in the face are known, these three gordinfloncitas
are your premiums by mother I and this borradita, nieces, Believe
it or not, the beyond, that black pork, is the mother who raised her,
this is your ...

- Enough, enough with the kindred, which is Larguita
- lego interrupted smiling.

Here the girl's fancy with a sigh, and who accompanied her said in chorus:

- Jesus, my dear! Do you feel anything? Prontito you go, brother, you get the license. No tease
and have a job here! Virgen de la Candelaria! Run you, man, you run!

And the goalkeeper was headed, step between steps, the guard cell,
and five minutes after upper back with the license, his paternity
was not to antagonize the ogre insides desire pregnant.

- You can
put the girl's will with all the holy family.

And another lego assumed the duties of guide and Cicero

Of course, in many cases the stomach was sticking, that is, roll of cloth, but or guardian or
keeper could get to find out. For them it was vaulted belly passport in order.

And in the convents of friars went to the monasteries of nuns, and
each returning visit home the girl on the whim bearing flowers, cherries
and apricots, scapulars and pills.

The participating comrades also of blessed bread.

And the procession in Lima lasted a month at least.

An archbishop, to stop the abuse and not daring to break away from usual provided that the capricious
Lima seek the license, not monastic authority, but of the curia,
but as he had to spend on a piece of paper stamped and signed application
and return the next day by the decree, started to decrease cravings.

His successor, Mr La Reguera, cut the root of the evil one no answer
to the first round neighbor who was with the effort.

- What if unfavorably,
illustrious sir? - Insisted the candidate.

- That I do not understand,
my dear, I'm no midwife, but archbishop.

And the good news is that there is a tradition that has aborted Lima not walk cloisters.

* * *

Among the manuscripts at the Royal Academy of History in Madrid, form the collection of Matalinares,
curious file documents relating to America, there is one (notebook 3 º of Volume LXXVII) codex
is just an excerpt of a process that Peru gave reason the girl's whim.

Keeper of the Recoleta of Cajamarca was, for the years 1806, Fray Fernando Jesus Arce, who, contrary
to the archbishop and disciplinary provision, given to allow the walk around Christian cloister
to the ground asked him the delicate ailment. The authority was civil or did not do their reasons for
seeking to heel, and armed process and fat.

Commissioner General's father supported the father Arce, presenting, among other arguments, the
following that, in his view, was crucial and decisive: - The conservation of the fetus is natural
right and the precept of positive law is closing, and the latter
would not be considered charitable exposing a woman to abortion.

Arce's father said to him was a matter of conscience consent to the whim feminine as once refused to
grant a license acontecióle that, three days, he presented the girl's fancy carrying the fetus
in a jar and blaming him for their misfortune. He added the father Arce that he had to go another little
soul in limbo, he was not with livers for an ugly pregnant woman cravings.

The vicar foreign men was seen in a hurry to give his ruling, and
requested the opinion of Matalinares, who was the then prosecutor
of the Audiencia of Lima.

Said Matalinares not the risk of the fetus, but corrupt and considerations of convenience or
privileges Apostolic for certain persons of distinction, had tolerated
the entry of women at close of regular, and the cravings that was
grid and concern.

In short, I ended view that it would prevent the father commissary general ordered the guardian
of the Recoleta pretext for any visits thereafter consented to skirts, under the penalties designated
by the Bull of Benedict XV, promulgated in January 3, 1742.

The vicar, as authorized by relying on opinion, ruled against the keeper, but this is not given
by defeat, and appealed to the bishop, who confirmed the decision.

Fray Fernando Arce Jesus was headstrong, and said at first that they
disregarded the mandate come until the Pope himself, but his friend,
the general curator, got appease saying

- Reverend Father, better
skill than strength.

For the question above all is self-love it will be safe and not adhering
to compliance.

Arce's father was thoughtful one minute, and then sticking a slap on the forehead as who has
been at the crux of intricate matter, said:

- Cabalito! That's it!

And in the act made formal renunciation of guardianship, and not for another office with owl
sending little souls in limbo.

THE GOOD FRIDAY Llorona

TRADITIONAL ANTIQUE TABLE MANNERS

Existed in Lima, until fifty years ago, a women's scribbled all pilongas to wrinkles and poor louse,
whose office was to whine and throw tears as chickpeas. What a bitch profession and evil thing!
What is unique is that every member was old as sin, ugly as a gossip and quilted witches and
hoodlums. In Spain dábanlas the plañidoras name, but in these kingdoms of Peru are baptized with the
pain or crying.

The colonial government did its best to banish them, I'll try a side or regulation duels that
Viceroy Teodoro de Croix sent enact in Lima dated August 31 1786, and have had opportunity
to read in volume XXXVIII of Various Papers Library National. It says at face value, Article
12 of the side: "The use of crying or plañidoras, as opposed to the
maxims of our religion as contrary to law, is perpetually outlawed
and abolished the contrevening imposing the sentence of one month
of service in a hospital, or bakery house of mercy.

" It seems that this camp was like many others, dead letter.

As soon died neighbor who leave finance to pay a decent funeral, when the executor and relatives
were poured through the streets in search of more fame llorona, which was responsible to hire
the gossips who had to accompany. The stipend, as says an old I have consulted cento was four
pesos for the mourner in chief and two for each subordinate.

And when the mourners, casting of lavish, adding some realejos on
price rate, then the sore were also forced to do something extraordinary,
and this thing was to accompany the crying with patatuses, epileptic
seizures and Repelon.

Them together with the so-called ax poor, who attended with a candle in hand, waiting to the
church door and out of the body to give vent to his grief contraband.

Say what you want against them, but what I contend is that the money
earned conscience.

Tell them so trained that it seems as if carried inside the body a Store tears they were so good fake,
thanks to the record of spending by eyes fingers dipped in juice of garlic and onions. Frequently,
and had known them to scatter as the Moor Muza, and lying was a glad exalting between sighs and sorrows
the qualities of the deceased.

- Ay, ay! So generous and charitable! - And that was in the drawer had been usurious nothing less.

-
Ay, ay! So brave and courageous! - Had tied the unfortunate consequence
of the gear evil of terror that caused the elves and penalties.

-
Ay, ay! So honest and good Christian! - And the deceased had been
for his tricks and so calloused that brought consciousness worthy
to die in high position, ie on the gallows.

And this tone were the lamentations.

Did not end here the mission of the mourners. There was still the tail to be skinned, that
is, the ceremony receiving the mourning house of the deceased for
thirty nights.

Enlutábanse draped black, block room, shining a beacon or windshield covered with a veil that
barely left guessing light or oil light a moth bouncing something
like hint of clarity, but actually served only to make the darkness
more terrifying.

From seven in the evening the friends of the deceased in the room fell silent and were seated without
a word.

A duel was in plain consecration of dumb.

The block was the headquarters of the skirts and fleas.

The men imitated friends not to move their lips, which, all things considered, should be harsh
penance for the daughters of Eve. Only to blow it lawful for them weeping loudly and launch from time
to time one oh Jesus! or cavernous breath, which seemed to complain of another world.

Silly scenes happened in the games.

A mischievous, for example, long half-dozen of mice on the block,
and then arming of screaming, running, screaming and tantrums.

Fortunately, at the stroke of eight reception ended: here were the troubles between women. None
wanted to be the first to get up. This act was called breaking the buck.

In the end it was decided to give this show some courage, and approaching the inconsolable not
always widow, he said:

- How you be! God's will be done.

Be satisfied, my daughter, that he is among saints and resting in this ungrateful world. Do not
give the penalty, that is offending who can do anything.

And all would leave with the same litany.

When the family returned to offer his condolences, of course we put
on the table to the widow and competition, and cut the girls, with
the scissors that God gave them, a gorgeous tunics.

What is a grandmother or an aunt, who had the runny nose from going to meet the widow asked.

-
Who broke the buck?

- Doña Stateira, the wife of a notary.

- She had to be, the scoundrel!

It is ... a woman who has the courage to call Stateira! ...

For more than cavilo I fail to realize why this grumbling. Caramba! I guess that a visit should
not be eternal, and someone has to lead by example in taking the road the door, and that no
offense against God or neighbor called Stateira.

On each night the police car received a penny columnar and a chocolate muffin. And do not forget
that lasted a month fair bargain.

Only in the death of the children had no role to play the mourners. Already go! Angels in Heaven!

But
among all plañidoras had one that was more, the ne plus ultra of the genre, and only deigned
to attend funeral of viceroy, of bishops or very exalted personages. Distinguished with the title
of the weeping of Good Friday. The people called it by another name which, not blush to our
readers, we at the bottom of the inkwell.

Thus, it was said: - The funeral of Mr. John Doe has been of good
best.

To tell you girl until the police car was on Good Friday the church door!

To me there is only a desecration than this, and is performed annually in large cities, to walk
or pilgrimage, in November, the cemetery is undertaken.

Vanity of the living and not the sorrow of the bereaved is who that
day decorating the graves with flowers, ribbons and symbolic crowns
.-- What would they say about us? - say the loving relatives -.

It should others see that we spend estate -. And I found vanity even in death, says more learned
from books.

The gravestones are the subject of derision and defamation in that pilgrimage.

- Man! - Says one lad to another chisgarabís of braising, by reviewing
the tablets -.

Look who's here ... La Carmencita ... Do not you remember, boy? ... Which was dear to me cousin,
the banker, and cost an arm and a leg ... Girl very charitable ... and pretty, that yes, only
he painted eyebrows and pursed her mouth to hide a chipped tooth .-- Precious Crown will have
to don Melquiades! Best put his wife in life .-- Good mausoleum has
Junipero gift!

Could be better, that's why he stole a lot when he was Minister of Finance! Valiente rascal!
- Look at the epitaph that have made Mr. Milo, who was but a donkey
with gold hardware and silver saddle.

Call fount of knowledge and wisdom in this great Crab! - Great Fox was Dona Remedios! I met a
whole lot. As it almost had an affair with her husband Juan Lanas! - I did not know he had already
killed the Marquis of Algarrobo. Good old has gone to the hole! As it was a contemporary of
the spurs of Pizarro! - Geez!

Here's a dedicated patriot, those who give wing to eat the breast and they know take advantage
of any calamity.

And just to show of irreverent gossip. These slanderers
hair comes to the couplet popular:

The shoe bring broken, how it
remedaré? With peaks that spread gossip that is not.

The real pain
flees from the noise. Go for a walk to the cemetery the day of deceased
for viewing and be seen, by the thing - where are you going Vincent?,
where are all the people - as will the plaza de toros, for novelty
and for killing time, is to commit the most disgusting and stupid
sacrilege.

Let alone the dead and return to the mourners. 

Parents
of Mercy, in competition with what were the Augustinians Eve, drew
Good Friday procession in a litter with the tomb of Christ, and behind
them and surrounded by many devout, was a disheveled woman, yelling,
cursing Judas, Caiaphas, Pilate and all the executioners, and the
funny thing is that, without being shocked soul living throwing the
Jews as risqué apostrophes point as the children call them ... the
bad word.

In the chapel of Vera Cruz also came at eleven at night,
the famous procession Minerva, which, as everyone knows, were sponsored
by the noble descendants of the companions Pizarro, who was the founder
of the noble brotherhood and got sent to the Pope for a piece of the
true church lignun Cross, relic that still retain the Dominicans.

But
this procession was all severity, while luxury and grandeur. The aristocracy
never gave room for the mourners, leaving the popular motif for the
procession of Our Lady of Mercy.

Archbishop Bartolomé María de las
Heras had not enjoyed such masquerades, and the first year, which
was the 1807, where he attended the procession, into the street, stop
litter ordered to withdraw this outrageous woman with no respect for
the sanctity of the day dared to pronounce curses unclean.

Would
you believe that the people crowded around to stop it? For as it sounds.
No missing rather than detract from the procession it eliminates the
whining