 When was
too old for this, he was sent to school. Showed signs of being a kid peaceful, quiet, sensitive, and
began to learn their lessons well. His seven or eight mothers were in charge ask the master
for his behavior and application whenever you encountered on the street encouraging him to
'put you tighten the screws. "The teacher was responsible, in effect, tighten while reminding every
moment, in front of his classmates, his orphan their misery and the absolute necessity of showing
that he had humble and grateful to his beneficent. This humility was the thing that never stopped
singing to hear at the villa. How he stumbled in the street and deigned to put his hand paternally
on the head, they said:

- Beware of being humble! Be obedient and submissive to the ladies that you have collected for charity
Do you understand? ... charity.

And finally, his classmates were responsible generously was constantly warn an unhappy without
parents, nurtured by love and that should be in the hospice and non-
alternating with distinguished sons of shoemakers, masons, tailors
and bakers fashioned, and leading other people no less worthy of respect.

Teníala

humility in the heart of the drowned child and the suicide, if not had not it would be easy to
ridicule and scorn inculcate their peers, or the parental spanking the teacher and their protective,
because they all thought they were entitled to love, but to punish him too. His was a nature
lover and appreciated. He understood that Protecting all should respect and affection, and
is taxed. Of course, in the depths of his heart felt preferences, that is irremediable. Passionately
loved Ms Eloisa. This good lady, who was the one most needed, never scolded or punished, or
even a word I said unpleasant tratábalo with extreme tenderness, caressed him as if he were his
son and hid and excused his little antics.

When he was twelve years old, met in conclave ladies and deliberated about what should be done
with the boy. Desechose unanimously the idea of ??devoting to the office of his father. They
thought of several others, without being able to agree, until Ms Trinidad, the wife of D.
Remigio Flórez, a manufacturer of canned food, take a servant proposed messenger boy home.