 Then notify the judges come to his
house for a matter of utmost gravity. Were in effect, and she taught the four firms, and gave
them part of the price at which the priests had sold forgiveness Zadig. Each arrived at the
appointed hour, and was stunned to meet colleagues and still more with the judges who were witnesses
to his ignominy. Zadig was released, and Setoc so captivated by the skill of Almona, who took for
his own wife.

CHAPTER XIV.

The Bayle.

I had to go Setoc business of its traffic to the island of Serendib,
but the first month married, which, as we have said, is the honeymoon,
do not I leave or separate from his wife, even assume that one day
could be separated from it.

Therefore begged his friend Zadig to do for this journey. Ay! Zadig was saying: that even
I have to put more land between the beautiful Astarte and I? But it serves to force my benefactors.
So he said, cried, and broke.

A short time after brought to the island of Serendib, he was considered very superior man. Escogiéronle
traders by an arbitrator, the wise by his friend, and the small number of those who seek advice
from your adviser. King wanted to see and hear him, and soon met Zadig was worth quanto, he trusted
his discretion, and made him his friend. Zadig trembled the simplicity and the esteem with
which he was the king, thinking night and day in the misfortunes
that had brought him the friendship of Moabdar.

The king loves me, he said, will I be a man lost? Yet he could not disengage from the blandishments
of his majesty, because we must confess to being a of the most accomplished princes of Nabuzan Asia,
King of Serendib, Nuzanah son, son Nabuzan, Sambusna son, and it was difficult for whom he
was, not about clothes.

Incessantly praised, cheated and stole to the good prince, and each put his hand like qual to
contention in the treasury. The chief minister of finances of the island of Serendib was this
beautiful exemplo, and all the underlings imitate him with fervor. The king, who knew, had moved several
times minister, but had never been able to move the accepted style of dividing the income real
into two unequal parts, the smaller one for his majesty, and more for their managers.

Good King relied Nabuzan his need of the wise Zadig. So many things you know, told him, do not would
know how to stop me with a treasurer who does not steal from me? Yes indeed, "replied Zadig;
a sure way to pick you know one that has clean hands. Delighted the king asked him, giving
him a hug, as would. No more, "replied Zadig, which aim to Bayle to quanta the dignity of treasurer,
and that baylare lighter, more men will infallibly well. YOU ARE laughing at you, 'said the
king, so by diverting some of choosing a minister hacienda! With more than ready to give whatever
antics in the air has to be the most integrated and more able administrator? I'm not saying it
is to be the most able, "replied Zadig, but I do assure you is that undoubtedly has to be the
most honest. Such was the confidence with Zadig was saying it, that persuaded the king to possess
some secret knowledge supernatural administrators. I do not like things supernatural, he said
Zadig, and I have never bear with patience and men who do miracles, or the books that the mint,
and if you want your majesty allow me to do the test, will be convinced that my secret is so easy
as a single. More Nabuzan was astounded king of Serendib, to hear that the secret was simple, that
if I had said it was miraculous. Okay, I said to you, do as you please. Dexadlo be that this test
will earn more than what you think. That same day he sent a proclamation through name of the
king, who all aspired to employment quantos chief minister of the income Nabuzan his sacred
majesty, Nuzanab son, should come to light silk dresses to the antechamber King, the first day
of the moon's crocodile. Came to the number of sixty-four. Were musicians in a room immediately,
and arranged for a bayle, but the door was closed of the room, and she had to enter through a gallery
quite dark. Came a uxier to drive one after another to every candidate in this passage, where
you only dexaba few minutes. The king was advised, had actually put all their treasures in the
gallery. Quando suitors came to the hall, His Majesty commanded that Bayle, and never had baylarines
seen more moles or with less ease; all went head descends, the backs knees, and hands attached
to the body. What scoundrels! Zadig said in voice descends. To one swiftly moves, head up, looking
serene, the right body, and firm knees. What man so well, what sugeto honest! 'said Zadig. He gave
the king a hug baylarin to this good, and made him his treasurer, all others were justly punished
and fined, because while it had been in the gallery, each one had filled his pockets, and could hardly
take a step. Pitied the king of human nature, contemplating that sixty baylarines four and sixty-three
thieves were thieves, and given to the dark gallery running title of temptation. Persia had been impaled
in the sixty-three magnates; in other countries, had appointed a court, which had consumed
three times the costs stolen money, and had not put a penny in the
royal coffers, in others, would have justified fully, and would have
fallen from grace the lithe baylirin: in Serendib were condemned to
increase the treasury, because it was very Nabuzan item.

Was no less grateful, and gave a sum more quantiosa Zadig that nunra treasurer had stolen neither
the king his master. Zadig value of this money to send him to Babylon Express report on the
fate of Astarte. In giving this order, her voice trembled, he rushed the blood towards the heart,
is covered with a dark veil their eyes, and stood on the point of death. Departed the post, board violates
Zadig, and returned to the palace, where without seeing anyone, and believing I was in his room,
gave the name of love. Yes, the love, the king said, that just question, and you have guessed
the cause of my pain. What a great man you are! I hope to teach me to know a strong woman, as
I have done to find a disinterested treasurer.

Returning Zadig itself promised to serve in his love as he had done
in real estate, but seemed the most difficult undertaking yet.

CHAPTER XV.

Blue eyes.

My body and heart, the king said to Zadig ... Hearing these words could not help the Babylonian
to terminate his Majesty, and say, welcome Ouanto you have not told my soul and heart, because
we do not hear more voices that are in talks of Babylon, or read books do not address the heart
and soul, written by authors who have neither of them; but forgive me, Lord, so continue. Nabuzan
continued: My body and my heart are prone to love at the first of these two powers has plenty
of satisfaction, that I have a hundred wives at my disposal, all beautiful, obliging, obsequious,
and voluptuous, or pretending are with me.

However my heart is not so lucky, because I have had the most experience that flattered the
King of Serendib, and they do very little appreciation of Nabuzan. Why not I say that my wives
are unfaithful because I want to find a like for me own, and she turned a hundred beauties possess.
Tell me if my hundred sultanas is a who really loves me.

Zadig answered the same thing about the minister of finance. Lord dexadlo to my office; but
first let me have all the riches that were exhibited at the gallery of temptation, and do not hesitate
to give you a good account of them, and not lose a jot. The king gave him broad powers, and
chose Zadig humpback thirty-three the most ugly Serendib, thirty-three pages of the most beautiful,
and thirty-three of the most eloquent and strongmen monks. Dexóles power to all toilets introduced
in the sultanas; Hunchback gave to each four thousand gold coins to give away, and the first
day were all happy. The pages that had no other gift that you make your person, take two or three
days in getting what they requested, and had more difficulty in leaving his non bonzes; but after they
surrendered thirty-three devotees. Witnessed the king of all these tests by giving a lattice
in the chambers of the sultanas, and was stunned that their one hundred ninety-nine wives surrendered
to his presence. There was one very young and very novice to the qual had never touched his
majesty: arrimáronse to it one, two and three humps, ofrecréndole twenty thousand pieces, but
remained incorruptible, laughing at the idea of ??the humpback they thought their money made
them more beautiful. Presented themselves the two most beautiful pages, and they he said that the
king seemed nicer. Bonzo Acometióla then the most eloquent, and then the more adventurous: at
first I tried to talkative, and could not understand was the merit of qual second. Everything
is put at the heart, said: "I shall not transfer or the gold of a hunchback, or to the beauty
of a page, or to the arts of a Buddhist monk, and I wish to anyone but Nabuzan; Nuzanab son,
waiting for him to me appropriate. King was arrested in joy, love and admiration. He returned
to take all the money that had bought the humpback good chance, and gave to the beautiful Falida,
which was the name this beauty.

With him gave him his heart, he deserved to spare, because it never looked brighter and more youth flowery
yours, never beauty that was more worthy of pledge. It is true that history is not silent than
to misspell a courtesy, but confesses that Baylan as fairies, sing like sirens, and talked
like the Graces, and was full of skill and virtue.

Adorábala Nabuzan beloved but Falida had blue eyes, caused the most dire qual misfortunes. It
was forbidden by an ancient law of Serendib, who fell in love with one of the women who Greeks
later called BOOP, and to more than five thousand years had passed this bonzo the supreme law,
by appropriating to himself the lady of the first king of the island of Serendib, for so that
the curse of the blue eyes had made fundamental law of the state.

All classes of states made strong representations to Nabuzan, and publicly stated that arrival
was the fatal catastrophe of the kingdom, which was filled to the extent of the abomination,
threatening event that an accident of nature, in short, that Nabuzan, son of Nuzanab, was
in love with two blue eyes tear. The humpback, the monks, the contractors, and the black-eyed
bad-happy tainted the entire kingdom.

Universal discontent encouraged to savage peoples living north of Serendib to invade Nabuzan good
states. Subsidies requested his subjects, and the monks who owned half of state revenues,
were content to raise his hands to heaven, and refused to take their money out of breath treasury
to the king. Beautiful singing prayers in music, and dexáron the barbarians ravaged the state.

Dear
Zadig, "Take me out of this horrible predicament? said to him in piteous tone Nabuzan. With
much taste, "replied Zadig, the monks will give you money quanto distributions. Leave the land
where have raised their palaces and defendais no more than yours. Nabuzan did so, and Quando monks
came to lie at his feet, imploring his assistance, he answered them King with a superb music whose
lyrics were prayers to heaven, praying for conservation of their land. Then the monks gave
money, and happily concluded the war. Of Thus blessed by his prudent advice, and the most important
services, had Zadig brought the irreconcilable enemy of the most
powerful state, sworn in loss the monks and the Oji-black desacreditáronle
humpback and settlements, and made him suspicious the good Nabuzan.

The services that the man does remain in the anteroom, and suspicion enter the cabinet, according
to Zoroaster. Every day new charges were, the first is repelled, the second makes a dent, the
third wound, and the fourth killed.

Scared Zadig, who had put the issues on the rise of his friend, and
sent her money, no thought more than part of the island and go in
person to know news of Astarte, because if I stay in Serendib, he
said, I will impale the monks.

"But where shall I go?

Egypt I'll be a slave, according to Saudi appearances burned and
hanged in Babylon.

With all necessary is to know what became of Astarte: Partamona, and troubles that I intended
my luck fatal.

CHAPTER XVI.

The bandit.

On arriving at the borders between Saudi petrea of ??Syria, and to pass along to a strong castle,
left him a few armed Arabs. Saw himself surrounded by men who shouted: Give it up, all quanto bring
ours, and your person belong to our master. In response took Zadig the sword, so did the young man
who was brave, and to the lifeless dexáron first Arab that had rammed: doubled the number of enemies,
but they are not discouraged, and resolved to die in the fight.

Víanse two men defended themselves against a multitude; little contest so unequal could last. Looking
from a window the owner of the castle, Arboga named, the wonders of value to Zadig, charged
him esteem. Baxo therefore and came in person to restrain the sujos, and freed the two walkers.
Quanto for my land problem is mine, he said, not less than that encounter strange land, but you seem
to me as courageous, that I was exempt from the common law. Made him into the castle, ordering his
troops to treat him well, and wanted dinner that night with Zadig.

Was the master of this castle one of those Arabs who called thieves, the qual-thousand atrocities
used to do some good action, robbed with a furious rapacity, and gave lavishly: fearless in
action, in a good mood in the treatment of life, drinking at the table, good Quando had drunk
humor, and above all without any overlaps. Gustóle much Zadig, and the conversation which encouraged
the banquet last long. Arboga finally said to him: Aconsejoos you to take the game with me,
you can not do better, not so bad the office, and one day you can
become what I am. Can you tell, "replied Zadig, since Quando exercitais
so noble profession? From child, "replied the master. It was an Arab
servant very clever, and could not get used to my state, desperate
to see that land belonging equally to all, I would not fit to me the
relevant portion. My faithful old sentence to an Arab, the qual said
to me: "Son, do not despair, know ye that in ancient times had a grain
of sand that ached to be an atom stranger in a desert walk, he became
a diamond, and is today the most precious jewel in the crown of King
of the Indies