 If you get to win the sympathy and support of the employer or employers whose mediation
be sought, they can get everything, both in regard to our earthly life the future. It is an
easy, it's like a magical ceremony with its ritual consists of praise and humiliation, devotion,
submission, awe, and other manifestations propitiatory to win the sympathy and protection of
the saint, then follows the list of favors requested and are always met by God, as demonstrated
by numerous examples that the ninth lists carefully. All novenas are published with ecclesiastical
permission, after the prelate censorship review carefully the letter to see if there is something contrary
to the moral, healthy habits and absolute orthodoxy. In a word, all are printed "With the necessary
licenses."

The miracles mentioned in these novenas fits very well with the spells, magic and spells of
the early Filipinos who invoked the propitiation of divinities heathen, through ceremonies,
sacrifices, spells and incantations executed by their mangkukulam, babailanas and other magicians,
priests, healers, sorcerers and soothsayers they refer to and list the ancient chronicles written
by missionaries in the Philippines.

Replacing the "hidden powers"

All the fear of the mysterious and the belief of the Filipinos in hidden powers removed health,
attracting misfortune, gave the victory and led to the disaster, was retained changing only
the spirits that governed life events and phenomena nature. Patron Saints recommended by the missionaries
came to replace the Anitos representatives of their ancient ancestors,
who were involved in their ancient idolatry in all circumstances of
life.

When the missionaries preach their religion, condemned the ancient pagan superstitions, But a
new superstition taught more powerful than the original, not only for prestige new employers
all members of a heavenly court organized as an aristocracy terrestrial and led by God the Creator
of the World, but to use to communicate with your God in the same
language that is spoken by the people, the Latin language, which priests
raise their prayers and sang their songs.

Incantations

The Oremus, the Laus Deo, Agnus Dei, Deo Gratias, Nos cum prole pia, Benedicat Virgo Maria
Per omnia secula seculorum, eleyson Kyrie, Christe eleyson, fell into the category of spells
known by the names of Bolong and Mantala of primitive mangkukulam, manhihikup, mananangisama, etc.
etc., of the Gentiles Philippines. All of these Latin phrases reached a prestige so great that it looked
as irresistible to conquer invocatory formula God's will and is even
used to label any sect ridiculous as the Colorum, whose name comes
from the mispronunciation of "secular seculorum" ending many sentences
with Latin incomprehensible but used by the ignorance of many.

Agnus Dei qui phrase Tollis peccata mundi is used as a spell in which each word incomprehensible,
has a sacred character so that if anyone says that despises Qui Tolis, would be regarded as a blasphemer,
because the Qui Tolis is sacred, divine. A child, after praying the Trisagion, said in protest:
"It annoys me so much Kirileson (Kyrie Eleison). "His mother then punished him by making fun
of God.

Another child came Qui Tolis call a dog corrects her aunt saying,
"I never put the name of God an animal.

"

Array of magical invocations

All this constitutes a veritable arsenal of magical invocations, whose
effectiveness relies to prevent evil, free from danger, make a good,
achieving grace. As an example the virtue of the pleas and what can
be achieved by simply saying frequently Jesus, Mary, Joseph, who is
the "Holy Trinity of the Earth," are the following cases: (Ninth of
Jesus, Mary and Joseph. Manila, 1903)