 The population of Sandy-consciousness ignored Bar the
visit, offering various gifts coarse, but inspired by sincere sentiments. But since that fateful
day, that health and great strength seemed visibly to decline, and entry and the rainy season
when grass leaflets began to appear and between the rocky mound covering the tomb of Tennessee,
got himself beaten by the disease.

Then he put into bed.

That night, the pine trees surrounding the hut, shaken by the storm,
dragging their graceful branches over the roof, and the distance they
heard the roar and the pounding of the impetuous stream.

Tennessee's partner stood up and said:

- It is time, go in search of Tennessee; engancharé cart.

And he had risen from bed to not telling her maid prevented. However, making strange movements,
continued its singular delirium

- Come, borriquita!

So, so! Still! How dark it is! Alert for holes, and care He also, old. You know that sometimes,
when drunk, roll like a log up the ditch. Run, then, straight to the pine up there on the hill.
Well ... No I said it! ... There it is! ... is coming ... just ... serene ... How to shine
your eyes! Tennessee!

And so it was to meet ...

A POOR MAN

In 1852, came with us to California, aboard the Skiscraper, an individual named Fag, David Fag.
I think that the adventurous spirit had little effect on his departure, probably would have
no place to go. In the evenings, when young people gathered, pondered the magnificent placements we had
left, and how sad they had been our from friends to see us, when we taught daguerreotypes, and
loops of hair, and talked Mary and Susan, the poor man used to sit with us and we listened painfully
humbled, but without saying a word. Maybe it had nothing to say. Lacked comrades except when we
protected him, and in honor of the truth, we enjoyed a lot. No did wind to fill a hat, and I
was dizzy, could never get used to life on board. I will never forget how we laughed when
Abel brought a piece of bacon in a string, y. .. but everybody knows this classic joke, then joked
to its shores with great joy. Ms. Engracia could not suffer, he did believe that she had fancied
with him, and sent them to the cabin books and candy. It was funny seeing the scene that took place
when fighting stammering and dizziness, rose to thank him for the gifts. Menudo was she angry!
It seemed to Medora, said Abelard, who knew Byron by heart, and were not a little choked the
old Fag!

However, we do not hold grudges, and when Abelardo fell ill at Valparaiso, the old Fag nursed him carefully.
It was, in short, a boy good pasta, but lacked courage and enterprise. Absolutely devoid of all
aesthetic feeling once it became seen lounging sat mending his old clothes, while reciting Abelardo
the stirring apostrophe of Byron Ocean. On one occasion, he asked very seriously Abelardo if he thought
Byron had been dizzy on occasion. I do not remember the answer to Abelard but we all laughed,
and I think it would be good, it was not without Abelardo of humor.

The day the Skiscraper came to San Francisco, held a grand banquet. Convínose to meet every
year and perpetuate such an event. Of course, that we invite to Fag. Fag was a third passenger, and
as will be understood, it was necessary, since we were on land, be a bit cautious. But the
old Fag, as we called him, but was not more than twenty-five years (such as brackets), was
for us that day the subject of much banter. According to seems, conceived the idea of ??walking
to Sacramento, and really went on that form.

The party was complete: gave us all a good handshake, and each was by his side. Alas! No it
eight years ago, and yet, some of those hands, then narrowed friendly, have risen up against
each other, and have sneaked into our pockets. We did not eat together and next year, because
the young Baker vowed not to ever sit in occupy the same table as a villain as despicable as Remigio,
and Colas, which asked Valparaiso borrow the young Lupo, who served as a waiter in a restaurant,
did not like meet people of such ilk.

Having purchased a number of actions Cayote's Tunnel in Mugginswille, 54, is I did go up there
and examine it. I stayed at the Fonda of the Empire, and after eating, I looked for a horse,
I turned the village and went to the mines. I was told a of those individuals whom newspaper
correspondents call "our intelligent news "and that small communities can easily take the right
to give all kinds reporting. The force of habit and allowed to work and talk at once, without
forgetting never one thing for another.

Brought me a kind of history of the farm, adding:

- See you (and headed to the bank before it), surely there must come out gold (And here filed a
coma with his lance), but the previous owner (pulled stomach cramps the word of his pica) was
a poor man (and underlined the phrase with pica), an unhappy devoid of all authority, allowing the
kids to go up to her whiskers ... (The rest entrusted the operation
to remove his hat to wipe his brow manly with a large blue check handkerchief.)

Curiosity
led me to ask who was the original owner.

- It was called Fag.

I hastened to visit him, I seemed older and uglier. He had worked hard, as said, however, the
only thing he was going so well. Take his hobby and to some extent protected him. If I did, because
it started to feel distrust for kids like Abelard and Remigio need not speak.

Everyone remembers how the Cayote's Tunnel collapsed ignominiously and how we cheated. Well,
well, the first thing I learned was that Abelard, one of the major shareholders, was reduced
in Migginswille to save the hotel bar, and had the old Fag Rich, at last, and vareaba silver.
Remigio I learned all this when he came to fix their affairs.

He also told me that he had coconuts Fag daughter of the owner of that hotel. So, by hearsay
and by letters, I came to know that Robins, the owner of the hotel tried to arrange the marriage
between his daughter Rosita and Fag. Rosita was a strange child nice and plump, and I would
not do more than what his father commanded. I found it very convenient Fag to marry and to establish,
therefore, as a married man, would acquire all other authority.

Resolved, then, one day up to Mugginswille, to treat the matter myself.

There I had the great satisfaction that I serve drinks Abelardo yes, because it was Abelard,
the cheerful, bright, the invincible Abelard, who had tried for two years to despise. Talk about the
old Fag and Rosita, precisely because I thought the matter it would not be pleased. Declarome
that Fag never liked, and was sure that Rosita also liked: perhaps another person occupied the thoughts
of Rosita.

Then he turned to the desk mirror and smoothed his hair, I realized the vanity scoundrel, and
I thought to warn Fag so to hurry to formalize their union. In the course of a long conversation
we had and the tone in which he spoke, I wished I see that the poor boy was madly in love with the girl.
He sighed and coated prometiome courage to take the matter to a crisis. I also understood it,
an excellent heart, felt a kind of silent respect for Fag, but had
turned her head qualities Abelardo surface, which were nice and courteous.

I do not think Rosie was worse you and me: we are more willing to judge the face value known that
internal value. We are less work and more comfortable, except when we need to rely them. The challenge
for the women, is that in them the feeling is interested sooner than us, and you already understand
that in this case reflection is impossible. This is what had happened to the old Fag if it had been a
man of the most Light psychology.

But it was not.

The thing was hopeless.

Some months later she was sitting in my office when I showed the old Fag. After of a warm handshake,
talk about current affairs, of that mechanically own people who know
you have something to say, but that is bound to get there through
the usual ceremonies.

After a pause, Fag, with its usual ease, I said:

- I return to my
home.

- Does your home?

- Yes, that is, I think I'll do a trip to
the Atlantic States.

I've been to see, then, as you know, I have some properties and powers have given your name to
can manage: I bring some papers that would want to keep in your possession.

Would you take care of them?

- Yes - I said .-- "But what about Rosie?

Dumb fag, tried to smile, and this game was one of the most striking effects and grotesque
that ever witnessed. Finally he said:

- I will not marry Rosita, that is - and seemed to be asked internally as forgiveness of a sentence
categorically - I think I will better not to marry.

- David Fag - said with sudden severity, - are a poor man.

And to my surprise, his face became animated.

- Yes - said - that is, I am a poor man, so I've known forever, I'll tell you, I thought Abelard
wanted the girl as I do, and knew also that she loved him more than
to me, and it might be happier with my rival.

In addition, I also know that the old Robins I would have preferred the other because I was rich,
and that the girl would have obeyed his father, but, you know?, I figured that in the way,
as they say, so I chose to retire. However - continued when was about to interrupt him, - for
fear that the father Abelard rejected, I have paid enough to establish himself in Dogtown. Enterprising,
active, bright, as you know it's Big Bird, can advance and become again with his old position,
and there is no need for it urges him if he fails.

Alargome hand to say goodbye again.

Sentíame tired of leftovers for their way of treating such kind Abelardo to show, but as business
was good, I promised to take care of him, and departed Fag.

Some time passed. He came back the next steamer, and for several days, a terrible accident occupied
the attention of the United States. In all regions of the State leíanse eagerly the details of a terrible
shipwreck, and those who had friends on board met to read compressed breath long list of victims.
I searched the names of all interesting beings, and lucky ones who had perished, and I think I was the
first to discover, among them, the name of David Fag.

The poor man had, then, in fact, come home!

The outcasts of Poker Flat

To set foot Don Jorge, played by trade, in the main street of Poker-Flat, in the morning on 22 November
1850, and sensed that from the night before, was made a change in the moral atmosphere of the
population. Some groups where they talked seriously fell silent when he approached and exchanged
significant glances. It was noteworthy that dominated The air was quiet Sunday best, which in a
camp not used to influence Sunday, it seemed a bad omen, yet tranquil and beautiful face of
Don Jorge did not reveal any interest in these symptoms. Did you
perhaps aware of any predisposing cause?

That was something different.

- I suspect that going after any - thought, - perhaps after me.

Into his pocket the handkerchief with which he had shaken off the red dust boots Poker-Flat,
and with complete calmness dismissed from his mind all conjecture.

The truth was that Poker-Flat was after all. He had recently suffered a few thousand dollars,
two valuable horses and a prominent citizen, and the currently going
through a crisis of virtuous reaction, as illegal and violent as any
of acts that arose.

The secret committee had decided to expel any member of your breast rotten. Practicose this
in a permanent manner on two men hanging and the branches of a sycamore tree in the ravine, and
on a temporary exile of several other people abysmal. It is sensible to say that some of these
were women; but in defense of sex, I must warn that their immorality was professional and just
before a defect such as patent-Poker Flat ventured to establish itself as inflexible court.

A Mr. George had plenty of reason to suppose that he was included in the sentence. Someone from
the committee had suggested the idea of ??hanging him as an example tangible and safe means of
reimbursement, at the expense of his pocket, of the sums that they
had won.

- It is not fair - Simon said sail - let that young Rodrigo
Country, abroad by four sides, will drive our savings.

However, an imperfect sense of fairness, emanating from those who had had the good cleaning luck
in the game Don Jorge, silenced the petty concerns of the fiercest.

Don Jorge was the problem with the philosophical calm, the more suspicious about the hesitations
and of their judges. He was a good player for not submitting to fate. In his feeling, Life was
a game of chance and the percentage admitted to the bank usual.

An escort of armed men accompanied the social scum Poker-Flat to the outskirts the camp. They were
part of the departure of the expelled, in addition to Mr. George,
recognized as a man firmly resolved to intimidate and which had taken
care to assemble the picket, a young woman familiarly known by the
Duchess, another woman who had earned the title of Mother Shipton,
and Uncle Billy, who is suspected of stealing reefs and drunkard.

The ride does not excite any comments from the spectators, nor the guard said a single word.
Only when they reached the gully that marked the last limit of Poker-Flat, the head spoke four
words in connection with the case, which he wishes to preserve his life, should not be put
more boots on Poker-Flat.

Then, when the guard walked away, feeling tablets breathed in some tears hysterical by the Duchess,
in injuries to the mother and blasphemies Shipton that, like poisoned
arrows, spears Uncle Billy.

Only Don Jorge remained stoic mute. Listened impassively the wishes of the mother Shipton to
take someone's heart, repeated statements of the Duchess that she would die on the road, and
the startling blasphemies that seemed to rip off Uncle Billy shakes his horse. To not deny the
frank gallantry of his class, he insisted exchange his own horse, called The Five by poor mule
he rode the Duchess, but even this action aroused sympathy among the wandering of the party. The
Duchess arranged his feathers faded coquetry tired, the Mother Shipton glanced malevolently the possessor
of The Five, and Uncle Billy did not spare any of the game with his tirades.

Anyway, the way of Sandy-Bar, camp because of not having yet experienced the regenerating influence
of Poker-Flat, seemed to offer some encouragement to emigrants going
through a steep mountain, and offered travelers a day rather regular.

In that advanced season, the game quickly got out of the humid, temperate regions hills, dry
air, cold and strong in the mountains. The trail was narrow and difficult; around noon, the
Duchess, dropping from his horse to the ground, said his decision not to proceed further.

The spot was singularly wild and impressive. An amphitheater village forest, closed three sides
by rugged rocks on the bare granite, leaned gently on the crest of another precipice that
overlooked the plain. Without a doubt, was the most the way to a camp if the camp would have
been prudent. But Mr. George, not easily lose their orientation, I knew I had only done half the
journey to Sandy-Bar, and the game was not equipped nor provided to a halt. However, only served
to remind this circumstance accompanying his teammates a philosophical commentary on the madness
of folding before the end of the game. Were provided with liquor, and this contingency supplied the food
and everything else that they lacked. Despite his protest, soon fall into more or less under
the influence of alcohol.

Mother Shipton began to snore, Uncle Billy passed rapidly from the warlike state of stupor, the Duchess
was as lethargic. Only Don Jorge remained standing, leaning against a rock, calmly watching
them, because Mr. George did not drink, this would have hurt to a profession that requires calculus,
impassive and cold blood, in order to avail ourselves of his own phrase, not "could afford it."
Looking at his fellow exile and to philosophize about the isolation born of his office, on the
habits of his life and on their own vices, he felt depressed for
the first time.

He proceeded to remove dust from your black suit, wash hands and face and do other acts characteristic
of his habits of extreme cleanliness, and for a moment forgot his
situation. Do not ever commit the sin idea of ??abandoning their comrades,
more weak and pitiful, but yet he longed miss that excitement which,
strange to say, was a major factor in the quiet impassive which he
enjoyed. Embedded examined the sad walls that rose a thousand feet
high, steeply up above the pine trees surrounding it, the sky filled
with ominous clouds, and further down the valley and sinking in the
shade, when he suddenly heard his name called.

A horseman slowly
ascended the path. Did not take long to recognize the frank and lively
face newcomer Thomas Buffalo, called the Innocent of Sandy Bar. He
had found some months ago in a practice match where to the extent
legally beat any young candid his fortune, amounting to about forty
dollars. After the game was over, Don George retired as a young speculator
behind the door, and there told him these or similar words:

- Tom,
you're a good boy, but you can play or not worth a penny, do not try
again if you follow my advice