 As to the third relation, namely that of action a case involving
a body, can be found in all agents capable of acting on area, but it is clear that this situation
that it will be very different from that conceive in bodies or in its entirety: it is about
a completely different order, which rather refers to the pure idea of ??causality, not to
the intuition of space.

[193.] It is clear that we can conceive of a being that is not body or part of the body, or
exert no action on them: in which case this will not be any three relations expressed and then
not be in any place: and that is here or that is there, which is
close or distant you are, will use words without meaning.

[194.] In light of this doctrine is easily resolved the following issues.

Where would be a pure spirit that did not have any causal relationship
or influence of any kind, on the corporeal world? anywhere.

The answer does not seem strange but who did not understand the question is absurd. In the
case of course, nowhere; because where it involves a relationship, and here there is none.

Where were pure spirits, if there were no corporeal world? anywhere:
to Unless you mean that they would be in themselves.

But then the word will not mean the situation that we speak here, but rather the existence or
the spirit, or your identity himself.

Where was God before breeding the world? was, and was not anywhere: because there was no parties.

[195.]
Here you'll notice a mistake of Kant. Philosopher who has thought this space was conceived
by us as a condition of all existence in general, and this has founded one of his reasons for
holding that space was a purely subjective. In explaining in the second edition of his Critique
of Pure Reason, how to understand the subjectivity space, appears to state that we do not even
conceive of the intellectual order of things pure, no relation to space. Makes the observation
that in natural theology, being of an object of intuition can not be sensible either for us
or for himself, is careful not to attribute to his intuition or how to see, time and space, conditions
of human intuitions, "but adds, with what right can proceed well as has been done before in
space and time the forms of things in themselves, and forms such that as conditions of existence of
things à priori, there remain even after have destroyed everything with the thought, because
as conditions of all existence in general, should be also of the existence of God. If space and time
does not make them forms objective of all things, just subtract them subjective forms of our mode of
intuition, both internally and externally. Kant is right in that space and time should not be
considered as real forms, incapable of being annihilated, and therefore necessary and eternal,
but not reach the reason why the dilemma that if we do aims to space and time objective forms
of all things, we are compelled to turn them into subjective so that in the opposite case space
and time would be a condition of existence the same God.

[196.] We consider space as the current condition of the existence
of things situable; but not everything.

In the pure spirits were conceived without the existence relation to any place, and therefore
independent of position in space.

At this point, as all records relating to the purely intellectual order, are found in extremely
important doctrines theologians worthy of being consulted by those who want to deepen philosophical
questions, they could have been able to find the author of the Critique of pure reason, comments
that would have clarified problems whose solutions will embarrassed: in the present instance, would
have been able to see how inaccurate is that space is a condition the existence of all things,
finding the beautiful and deep theory with many Scholastic explain the presence of God in the
corporeal world, the angels in different places, their movements from one point to another without
passing through the middle, and the manner in which the soul is all around the body, and all
in any of the parties hereto. In these as little work as worthy of being consulted, there would
have noticed the German philosopher who the presence in a case of
spirits, was something entirely different the presence of bodies,
and that had nothing to do with the intuition of space nor in basis
of representation is sensible, even as a geometric idea.

[197.] Search St. Thomas (1. P. slope. 8. Art. 1.) If God is in all things, and responds yes:
but to prove his assertion, no need to lay hold of everything is located, before instead, you miss
the idea of ??space, and appeals to the causal. "Being God the same being in its essence, it
is necessary to be raised is its own effect: as the swell is characteristic of fire. This effect,
God will cause things not only when they begin to be for the first time, but when kept in the
self: as the light air, while maintaining light, the sun arises. It is necessary therefore that
while the thing has being, God is This, according to the manner in which it is being: being
is the most intimate that there is any thing, and what is more deeply
inherent to it: because that's all that formal is the thing: thus,
God is in all things, and intimacy.

"

Being located in space is to be contained therein, and we think all that we consider situated
therein: St. Thomas rejects this sense, when it comes to spiritual
beings, and says that while things are corporeal as content, the spiritual
and Instead, they contain things that are.

In the second article asks whether God is in all places, place, and says that God is in all things
giving them being, and the strength and operation, and in all places, giving being and capacity
virtutem locativam. We propose the argument that incorporeal things not in any place, and responds
with the following highly philosophic words: "The incorporeal things are not in place by contact
dimensive amount, but by contact activity, virtutis. "Then, explaining how he can be in different
indivisible Places says: "the indivisible is of two kinds, one that is the end of the continuum,
as permanent point in time thereafter. The indivisible in the permanent, can not be in many
parts of a place, or in many places, owing to having a situation certain: just as indivisible
in the action or the movement can not be in many around the time because it has an order determined
by the movement or action. But there indivisible one that is out of all kinds of continuous
and thus substances incorporeal like God, the angel and the soul called indivisible. What is
indivisible Thus, it is not applicable to continuous as something that pertenenezca, but as it
touches its activity: and so that it can be extended according to one or many objects, to the
small or, at large, is in one or many places and in a small or big. "

What could be more clear, referring to the intuition of space, that when a thing is all in one
place, it has nothing out of that place? and yet the holy Doctor, rising on sensible representations,
sits firmly that God may be all in all, all in any part, as the soul is all in any part of the
body. Why? because what is called in all bodily things, refers to the amount, and the whole the disembodied
essence is all that is therefore not commensurate with quantity, nor tight anywhere.

The Treaty of angels, (1. P. slope. 52. Art. 1.) Saying that are in place, warns this is stated wrongly,
æquivocè [2].

 
the angel and the body, because the body is in place, applied to him by
contact dimensive quantity, but the angel the amount is only virtual,
ie, in exercising its action on any body: which is not to say that the
angel is located in the continuous, ongoing in situm habeat.

The Treaty of soul, (1.P. cuest.70. Art.8.) Argues that this, is all around the body and all in
either party, and again to distinguish between essence and all fully quantitative, using a
similar argument we've seen with respect the angels. Those who have laughed at this doctrine,
which is found much deeper the more you think about it, have expressed with regard to surface
relations with spiritual things corporeal. In general, it is dangerous to laugh of views held
by great men in matters as serious, because if you do not succeed, have at least strong reasons
in its favor. Nothing more contrary to the representations sensitive to the possibility of
being one thing to the same time in different places; but nothing more philosophical than this possibility,
when you have thoroughly analyzed the relationship extension of the unextended things, and has discovered
the difference that the situation will quantitative causal situation.

[198.] Infiérese of these doctrines that being in space is not a general condition of all stocks,
even according to our conception: for a well conceived thing to exist, without regard to any
place. At this point, the imagination is confused with understanding, and it is believed impossible
for this so it is just for that. It is true that anything you can imagine, without reference to points
of space, and that therefore the case that we even in dealing with the objects of pure understanding,
always offers some representation sensitive, but it is true that the understanding is consistent
with these representations, as that is false. As the imagination is a kind of continuation of the sensitivity
or is an internal sense, and the basis of feelings is the extension, we can not exercise this
internal sense, but we offer the space, as we have seen, is but the idea of ??extension in general.
Thus, the situation in space is a general condition of all the things
on the senses, but not as understood.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

CONTINGENCY corporate relations.

[199.] The situation in place, is the relationship of one body with another, "these relationships
are necessary? Conditionally, yes, essentially, no, I mean that God has established well, and
in this sense are necessary: ??but God could have established otherwise and may even alter the
present, without changing the essence of things.

If supported, as one can not, a correspondence between the subjective
and objective or between appearance and reality, it is not possible
to deny that the relations of the bodies are constant, this constancy
arises from a need.

But, the current order is found subject to fixed laws, does not prove that they reside in the essence
of things, so that, assuming the existence of objects, their relations have not been very different
than they are today.

[200.] To say that the current order of the universe is intrinsically necessary, would be necessary
know its very essence, and we can not reach that far, because the objects are not present to our
understanding, but immediately, and in one aspect, namely, the which puts them in relation
to our sensory faculties.

The best proof of ignorance in which we are about the essence of bodies, is the great division
in this part has reigned in the schools, arguing about the extent, or dimensions, constituted
the essence of bodies, and others stating that the extension was
nothing more than an accident, not only different from corporeal substance,
but also separable.

The deep darkness that surrounded the issues in question to investigate elements of the corps,
said that these beings are unknown in to its essence, and only know of them, which has no
relation to our sensibilities.

[201.] The aspect under which there is a being, need not contain all
of nature: bodies say that there is only what we feel, is to build
our schools in order of things in themselves: an intolerable pretension
to be experienced at every step the limits of their activity, which
in its relations with the corporeal world is almost always in a passive
disposition, and that when he wants to exercise its powers in foreign
he is obliged to abide by the laws of the external world, on pain
of struggling with obstacles absolutely invincible.

If we ignore the essence of bodies, nothing we can decide on what is intrinsically need in them except
the composition, which appears to us, even in the sensible order,
and we can not strip them without incurring a contradiction.

Simplicity and composition, involving being and nothing, so in the same object is inconsistent.

[202.]
Of these doctrines is inferred that in all things appertaining to the relations of bodies, we must refrain
from judging the point of view whatsoever, and limit the conditional. We can say, 'this happens
now, this has to happen now established according to the order; " but we can not say, "this happens,
and this has to happen for absolute necessity." Transit the first proposition to the second,
is the knowledge that the aspect under which presents us with the outside world, is the image
of its essence, knowledge that no man may have.

[203.] One of the gravest mistakes of Descartes was taking in this dispute: the form the essence
of bodies in dimensions, is to confuse the real world the phenomenal, taking one aspect of things
by their nature. It is true that extension is affecting us, and this is the basis of the relations
of our sensitivity with the external world, but to infer that this world here considered in
its essence, is not more than what is presented in the dimensions,
it's like were taken by the essence of man, the lines that constitute
her figure.

[204.] The diversity of aspects under which it is offered to our senses the external world is
a warning that we must not confuse what it is for all with what has relative. A man deprived
of one sense, it will run, if the world follows has more issues than he perceived, what we know
about the manner in which the objects are presented to the pure spirits,
nor about the many other phases that could offer to our sensibilities?

So let your secrets to nature: no limit omnipotence, stating that the order the world is intrinsically
necessary so that relations can not be present altered without contradiction, and when asked
about the possibility of a new order relations between beings that surnamed bodies, not resolve the
question slightly, by taking only one type of everything, the skinny scope of our powers. What
would we think the blind man who laughed at those who see, to hear them talk about the relationships
of objects as seen.

Such we present ourselves in the eyes of a pure spirit, when we were talking about the impossibility
of a different order than is offered to our sensibilities.

[205.] If we look to the light of this doctrine, the first principles of physical science we'll
see that hold much of parole, because they are only true, on the assumption that the data supplied
are made by experience. If the occupation of a place, if the relationship of places, things are
not essential to the body, it the distances and consequently the movements are made conditional,
in which truth exists only under certain circumstances. Thus all the natural sciences, which
as we have seen, are reduced to calculation of extension and motion, do not penetrate the essence
of things, and are limited to one aspect, which is presented to our experience. By way that in these
sciences there is nothing absolute in all the rigor of the word, and in this part are far away from
metaphysics, which, or does not know anything, or know things absolutely
necessary.

This doctrine has need further clarifications, to be found in Chapters
following.

CHAPTER XXIX.

SOLUTION OF TWO PROBLEMS.

[206.] Theory variables representing the relations of bodies, is not by necessity entails the ruin of
all the natural sciences? Can there be science when there is no object to? can be compatible
with the variability need?

The natural sciences have two parts: a physical and other geometrical: the first involves Data
supplied by the experience, the second form their calculations according
to the same data. Alter the order of the relations of external things,
and the data will be different; we have a new experience which will
be a new physical science: the calculation is the same, but new data
correspond to new results. Behold the faint difficulty. All physical
sciences lie in the observation, all combinations run on data supplied
by observation, then all the physical sciences involve a conditional
part, are not entirely absolute