 Why try Esperancita
persuade that you die for it? Do you think that is good for something? Procura convince her otherwise
and see how much better the result.

- What to do? - Asked anxiously.

- Do not get so tired you manifest, man. Do not be such a melon. Do not go home much. Do not
look with eyes half-slaughter sheep.

Bring the opposite when you say something stupid: insinúala that there are women like you more.
Take a bit of tone, and you'll see how the making better-looking case ....

- I can not, I can not, Pepe! - Ramon said running his hand across his forehead at the height
of Grief -. At first he was still master of myself, I could talk with ease and flirting with
others .... Today it is impossible! So stunning I have before me, I atortolo, I say more than
nonsense. If I find it particularly bad mood. Each answer leaves me yours ice cream. You can not
imagine why so dismissive tone that girl knows how to draw when he wants. If I try to talk to
the other, simply that I put Hope's smiling face to let her immediately.

I have come to spend a month without addressing just the word, but finally I could not resist
any longer and went to surrender.

I prefer their conversation, but abuse me, to all other ....

They were silent as if you walk under the weight of a terrible tragedy. Pepe Castro meditated.

-
You're lost, Ramon - he finally pulling the tip of the cigarette
and rubbing the nipple with the tissue before storing -.

You're completely lost. All that you tell me no common sense.

Conduct yourself if you knew you had not reached such a state.

Women they are always treated with the tip of the boot, then go admirably ....

After pouring these brief and profound words, stepped in front of a window.

- Man, look at so beautiful necklace. If you come well to Perl bought it.

Ramon looked at the collar without seeing it, entirely absorbed in his saddest thoughts.

- Well, yes, Ramoncillo - continued the distinguished wild throwing an arm around the shoulder - you
are lost .... However, I am committed to ensuring that you would hope so you to do what I said
.... Tested my method.

- Rehearse what you want. I want to exit at any cost in this situation - said Councilman moved.

-
Well, look, so you will not go home soon Calderon but eight or ten
days .... We will together or we will be there.

You should not be alone: ??In a moment of weakness would miss to lose all the work. Speak little
hope and much to the girls there are. Procura extol blondes, to high, the white, in short, women
with type opposed to it and be sure to get excited enough. Bring the contrary, but no hurry much.
You are very stubborn and should not play too much. A soft and contemptuous tone takes best effect.
It is best to look at me from time to time. I will make a sign with dissimulation: so you will
always treading on firm ....

Yet, before reaching the door of the house of Calderon Castro had time to enlarge other valuable data
with this gallant didascalon sample of his talent.

Only an intelligence wonderfully perspicuous and utilized together with long experience, just a refined
spirit could penetrate so deeply into the secret conflict that resistance to devote Hope Ramoncito
his heart, he had created. At the same time was the only one who could provide a solution satisfactory.
The young councilman came to her beloved home in a state of relative tranquility. As for his
intimate purposes, we can only say he was determined to put on a great aspect of dignity and
resistance to openly oppose invasive tendencies Calderón of the girl.

Thought it appropriate to start putting your hands in your pockets and folded lips with a smirk
ironic and protective. Thus came into the room where the family was gathered wealthy banker, swinging
his head as if he could not because of her countless of thoughts
that kept indoors, the elegant manners of rude manners there more
than a step, as the sublime to the ridiculous.

So we dare not ensure that Ramon, the first stage of his conversation with Esperanza, it's
always kept this side of elegance. There are some grounds for thinking that it was not so.
What, saving our awareness of true historians can say is that pretty soon Esperancita time to
notice, after warning that it did not cause the deep impression which was expected.

In the sewing cabinet where introduced, they were embroidering Ms Hope, Mariana and Esperanza.
Or talking with accuracy, which were embroidered Dona Esperanza and Esperanza: Mariana remained
seated in a chair, staring into space in perfect stillness. Pepe Castro and Ramon were close
friends of the family and were received without ceremony and welcome. After a few handshakes elusive,
with the sole exception of Maldonado to Esperanza, which was not done intentionally because it was
distracted to give decent start to the large number of slights of any kind that torment their
thought adored acomodáronse in separate chairs.

Mariana alongside Pepe, Ramon with Ms Hope. Before doing so, the youth council has already had
a moment of weakness.

Seeing something Esperancita away from his mother and grandmother
thought it was propitious occasion to have conversation with her secret,
and hesitated in taking his seat there.

Castro A look expressive of him back in agreed.

- Buenos eyes seeing you, Pepe - Esperanza said, fixing his own, laughing
and nothing ugly in the famous wild.

- Precious are those who are
seeing now - Ramon said quickly.

Castro, before answering, he looked back severely.

The councilman, stunned, said to amenguar a bit his clumsiness:

- Because this is a family of pretty eyes.

- Thanks, Ramon. And you begin to be false as all politicians - said Mariana.

- Always righteous, Mariana! - Said that, red with pleasure, hearing
himself called a public man.

- How many days has it been since I've
been here - Castro asked the girl.

- The least fifteen .... You see,
has been the last time on Monday .... Pacita was here .... Today is
Saturday .... Thirteen just days.

Never had such a mind the days when Maldonado visiting the house.

Castro welcomed This indifferent interest test.

- I did so many days .... How time flies! said deeply.

- Sure! You are flies away from us.

The young man smiled kindly and asked permission to light a cigarette. Then he said:

- No, still happens to me more quickly beside you.

- More than at
Aunt Clementina? - Asked the girl in an innocent tone that cast doubt
of his intention.

Castro became serious and stared. His relations with the daughter
had Salabert hitherto kept quite secret.

Which were discovered at the home of his sister husband was disturbed.

Esperanza was like a cherry under the gaze of the young.

- Same -
concluded by saying coldly -.

All are good friends.

- Are you going home today from my sister? - Mariana said without
realizing what was happening.

- Ramon and I'll go: Is not today Saturday?

And you?

- I have no desire to receive. A few days ago I feel a little discomfort in the throat.

- Do not say you're sick, Mom. Say that you like better go to bed early - said Esperancita
with bad humor.

The mother looked at her with big eyes, dull.

- I have a sore throat, girl.

- What a coincidence! - Said it in ironic twang -. I have not heard it until now.

- If you feel like going - said Mariana finishing guess - you take your dad.

- You know that Dad, not leaving you, not come out.

Esperanza's tone revealed spite. Through the eyes of Ramon spent a flash of joy legitimate and
a look of triumph to his friend Pepe. She showed like going from
he knew that he would attend as well.

The conversation began shooting on public areas, stopping with a predilection
in most common of all in court, or on Real theater artists.

It spoke of the beauty of Tosti.

Ramon, touched by the victory he had gained, he wanted to deny it;
cursed tall women, and especially the blondes.

He did not like more than the rates skinned, round-faced, of medium
height and dark-eyed (well, that of Esperanza; needed was not named).

Your friend Pepe, alarmed by the relief that looked at first with all the plans that they had
agreed siege, he made a lot of hidden winks until he got to bring
it on track.

But he did so badly, that is, began to contradict in a way so pitiful
that the ladies did notice right away.

Were stunned and made a mess, which could not go out without a coat
that very time he threw his friend and teacher.

To repair a bit of awkwardness began to tell what had happened the
previous day at City Hall, with such details, which soon Mariana yawning
like a blessed it was, and Ms Hope became involved in embroidery and
showed signs of thinking about things very different.

Esperancita ended up making a sign to Castro to approach.

This was due moving to a seat near her.

- Hey, Joe - the girl said softly, shaking -. Recently I've seen you get me seriously. I do not
know whether I said something that might annoy.

If so, forgive me.

- Do not know what you allude. I do not bother anything can you tell me a girl so pretty and as nice
as you - said the young man with his beautiful smile Sultan.

- I'm glad it was only apprehension .... Thank you very much for the flowers, if you feel them,
which I doubt .... I hurt in my soul cause you an upset ....

Saying
these last words, she blushed to the ears.

- Well I have news that
you are fond of giving.

- Oh, no!

- So says my friend Ramon.

Esperanza's face darkened when he heard this name.

A severe wrinkle across her forehead virginal.

- I do not know why he says.

- Is not no remorse you conscience?

- Not a bit.

- Oh, what a heart so emperdenido!

- Why? If you have provided any penalty will be that he must have provoked it.

- That's what I said I .... But in the end, I think the patient is already on the way to recovery
and that there will be more available to their darts .... I see a
lot more fun to be around a few days for this part.

Castro worked sincerely and in good faith by his friend.

- I am very glad that was the case - said the girl with perfect naturalness.

Castro made an impassioned defense of his friend recommended it to all practical effect of benevolence
Hope. But when you pour it into the ear of some exaggerated words of praise, the tone dismissive of
the pronounced and not smirk fell from his lips, refute enough. While this was not the daughter
of Calderón any, received with the same hostility.

- Come on, Pepe, you feel like rag!

- That yes, Esperanza, yes! Ramon has a great future and it would be difficult to time you see a minister.

The council, meanwhile, explained with the fluidity that characterized him, and Ms Mariana Hope,
how he had discovered a fraud of consideration on the rights of consumption. Three hundred
and fifty hams had been introduced a few days ago, with the consent of matute some employees
of the municipality. Ramon thought to bring these employees to the bar very short term. Mariana
begged him not be too severe with them would be such Once parents. But he could not soften.
Undoubtedly, the principles of justice City were most adamant that their neck muscles, judging
by the countless of times he turned his head toward the spot where Pepe Esperancita and chatted.
Was not jealous. He had full confidence in the loyalty of his friend. But he liked her adored
him listen when he pronounced the sentence: "the bar", "I think opinion in the wrong direction"
"Municipal law requires appraisals, etc.., So that the angel of love is out penetrating the high
destinies that luck had it reserved so joining a man strong and as
administrative.

All those speeches aloud, they were just a continuous invitation to tender once entered "in the
realm of formality."

Steps were heard in this next room, and a cough that those present knew admirably. Ms Hope,
to hear, delivered in haste, rather, showed the work that had hand in the lap of her daughter. When
Calderon came, Mariana embroidered with affected application while his mother stood hand over
hand, as if he long time that would be in that position.

Ramon and Castro barely set at the maneuver. The reason for it was that Calderon did not forgive
his wife, apathy, laziness, judging these vices as true calamities often considered unlucky
for a woman to have joined so lazy. Not that it mattered little work, much at home, but his
temperament worker indefatigable revealed in the presence of another so diametrically opposite.
Slack, the Mariana abandonment clenched his nerves, gave rise to bitter quarrels and answers frequent.
She lightly defended. He alleged that his parents had raised for laborer, because it had sufficient
means to live as a lady. D. This Julian is furious even more, shouting that everyone has the
duty to work, at least do something. The complete idleness is incomprehensible. The woman
is obliged to care for is not wasted household finances because it does not help foster that,
and so on., etc. In short, the cause of domestic trouble was this hopeless laziness of Madame. Ms
Hope was very different from her daughter. Temperament active, vigilant, or more so greedy that
his son, no could never be a quarter of an hour without something in hand. In the internal affairs
the house was not very marked intervention. Calderón was pleased to order it and handle it everything
itself. And that means a contradiction that we must draw attention to that fully understand
his character. He complained bitterly that his wife did not serve to bring the housekeeping, because
he was forced to take care of him, and yet, knowing his mother served very well for that matter,
would not give it. This makes one suspect that but Mariana was a prodigy of activity and order, would
not agree not to leave the affairs of the outside indoors.

His character and sordid suspicious did you always prefer work to rest. I wish I had a hundred
eyes for them all on the objects of their membership.

Doña Esperanza also deplored the character of his daughter went very
according to the meanness of his son, helping not a little in home
monitoring.

But though often blame it for their apathy, as he had finally emerged from her womb, hurt
Calderon Doing so strongly felt the marital quarrels. So I always avoided them if I could be
at the expense of a sacrifice, covering the faults of Mariana, making
herself voluntarily guilty of them.

This was the reason for having given so quickly that it was pad embroidering.

D.

Julian came in with a book in hand, it was not the Journal or the Mayor, or the copier letters,
but the serial smoothly correspondence, I used to cut with great care and then stitched. Oddly,
D. Julian was fond of novels, but read nothing that correspondence, the pious gave his daughter
in school. Of its own accord had not ever entered a bookstore to
buy some. Not only was fond read them, but what is even more rare,
is softened significantly with them. Because he kept on his chest
a large pool of sensitivity. It was a weakness of his body, as well
as the asthma and rheumatism. The misfortunes of others, poverty,
extreme pity him. If could be remedied in any other way that was not
with money, make sure that disappear immediately. Traits of generosity
made him mourn with enthusiasm, but was judged, and with good reason,
unable to carry them out. Still made a supreme effort for violating
nature. In fact, it was no less rich beggars who had in Madrid. Had
a fixed amount to the poor and I kept track in his books as if they
were creditors. Having exhausted the monthly amount, we believe that
if he saw starving in the street to a creep, not socorrería a penny,
not a lack of sensitivity but by deep roots in his heart that had
the numbers. The idea of ??discarding something endorsed by other
means of disposal that was not the sale was for him almost incomprehensible.
His charity had merit so much higher than others.

When he entered
the sewing manifested in the face signs of being shaken. After saying
goodbye to the strangers, uttered by sitting in a chair:

- I just
read this novel, a beautiful chapter ... Beautiful! ... I could not
resist venírselo temptation to read them ....

Stopped because no
one dared to propose to Ramon Castro and, although he wished. Was
very fond of reading aloud, through what medium did. Mariana was pleased
hear a lot in reading. So, on this side, the marriage was fine.

-
Read it, man .... I think Pepe and Ramon not mind - it said.

Castro
made a slight sign of acquiescence, Ramon was quick to express with
gestures extremes that would be a great pleasure ... he was very fond
of beautiful chapters etc. Few thanks! Coming from the father of his
beloved, would be able to listen carefully reading the table of logarithms.