 Then came in
his boat, sailed a lot, and finally landed on the coast of his native
country.

But what had happened during his absence? Where was his father's hut? What had been in the village
who used to live? The mountains, indeed, were there as before, but the trees had been cut.
The brook that ran beside his father's hut, was running, but there
were no women to wash clothes as before.

Portentous was that everything had changed in such a way in just
three years.

He was right then to have a man nearby and asked Urashima:

- Can you tell me, I pray thee, where the hut Urashima, who was here before?

The man replied:

- Urashima? How to ask for him if he disappeared four hundred years ago fishing? His father,
mother, siblings, grandchildren of his brothers, has died centuries. That is a ancient history. You
must be crazy when you're still such a hut. For hundreds of years was rubble.

Suddenly came to mind Urashima the idea that the Dragon Palace, across the seas, with its walls
of coral and ruby ??fruit, and golden dragons with tails had to be
part of fairyland, where a day is longer than a year in this world,
and their three years, accompanied by the Princess, had been four.

Was of no help, then stay and in his homeland, where all your relatives
and friends had died, and where even his own village had disappeared.

With great haste and recklessness in Urashima then thought back to his wife, overseas. But
what was the direction to be followed? Who is mark?

- Perhaps, he mused, if I open the box she gave me, discover the secret
and the way I want.

So he disobeyed the orders he had given the princess, or not remembered at the time, I was
so upset.

Whatever it was, Urashima opened the box.

And what do you think he left it? Came a white cloud that floated over the sea. He shouted in
vain for the cloud to stop. Then he remembered with sadness that his wife had told him that,
after opening the case, there would no longer have to come back through
the palace of the god of the sea.

Soon he could not Urashima or scream, or run towards the beach, in search of the cloud.

Suddenly, her hair turned white as snow, his face covered with wrinkles, and their backs bowed
like a man decrepit. Then he missed his breath. And at last he fell dead on the beach.

Poor Urashima! Died for reckless and disobedient. If I had done as he was told the Princess,
had lived more than a thousand years.

Tell me you do not like to go see the Dragon Palace, across the sea, where the god lives and reigns
as king of dragons, turtles and fish, where the trees are emerald leaves and jewels for fruit,
and where the scales are silver and gold tails?

RAVAGES OF LOVE AND JEALOUSY

TRAGIC DRAMA

THIS drama, so too tragic, devoid of any literary worth, but is published here to satisfy the
curiosity of a few people who wanted to see him when he was represented and did not succeed
because of the smallness of the room that served as a theater. The
author wrote The drama at the request of the graceful and unobtrusive
Miss María de Valenzuela, who prescribed certain conditions that should
hold his work. The drama was not to last longer fourteen or fifteen
minutes, the action had to be as awful as fast, and, except for parades
and dumb characters, they only appear in the six partners, three male
and three females, all of whom had died of disasters and violent death
in the same scene. As frightening outcome was not to be due, or plague,
or famine, or fire heaven, nor any other supernatural means, but everything
had to happen simply because gruesome frenzy effect that love and
jealousy in the soul of a passionate woman. I believe I have fulfilled
the above conditions imposed Miss me then I am proud. I recognize,
however, that my play had not been so lauded and celebrated not for
the merit of the actors and actresses that made me the honor to represent
you. These were the nice lady Dona Rosario Conde Luque Rascon, the
two Miss Ms Mary and Isabella de Valenzuela and D. Alfonso Danvila,
D. Javier de la Pezuela and D. Silvio Vallin. They, not the reduced
and poor poet's inspiration, success must astounding that won the
drama, in the beautiful theater that Mr. D. Fernando Bauer improvised
in home, and whose magnificent Moorish décor beautifully painted Mr.
Conde del Real Appreciation