 

D. Jacinto de la Mota was never hypocritical or false in their devotions, or the austerity of
his life. Badly educated, very correct in everything and guided by the holy fear of God, fulfilled
their duties without the slightest trace of boasting. And not troubled them in mocking it
could make the libertines, calculated either never worldly honor and profit his modesty and
other virtues is at risk. When freed from the bonds that the Duke de Campoverde and friends laid
him, using Maria Antonia Fernandez, alias Wow, did what he did for his delicacy of feeling
and aversion to all sensual rudeness, no thought of winning reputation.

Caramba was so convinced of the sincerity of D. Jacinto and so in love with the sweet words
with which he mitigated the bitterness of his contempt, that the vicious itch that she went to
seduce him, became a true and deep passion of love.

At that time, the sculptor D. Manuel Alvarez, who frequently visited the Duke of Campoverde, heard
tell it what had happened between D. Jacinto and the Boy, and inspired by that event, made
the tiny image of San Vicente, putting on the face of D. Jacinto,
who happened to portray accurately from memory.

Maria Antonia had to know that D. Fernández Manuel Alvarez had finished
work so pretty and decided to buy it at any cost to himself, as did
in fact well to pagándosela sculptor, who would not and could not
refuse.

The Boy, although love sublimely D. Jacinto, is still far from being developed. As not a few women
adventurous and very broken life was full of extravagant superstitions. Thought she loved and
loved to frenzy D. Jacinto and aspired to be mistress of it by any means. His love sometimes
acquired the status of hatred and sometimes it looked like self-denial
and sacrifice.

The Boy, and wanted to kill him because she wanted to die for his sake, but anyway longed to
be loved.

She consulted a famous gypsy witch, who was then in Madrid, and this gypsy sold you the gold-handled
puñalito that nailed him in the heart of the effigy, as Caramba did. Not that won her the living
and true heart of D. Jacinto.

And move little later, his passions and disappointments, and a very eloquent sermon he heard
by chance Father Athanasius, in the Capuchin convent, left the shabby life that until then had
continued and turned to God earnestly.

Soon reached the ears of D. Jacinto new conversion as exemplary and miraculous, and from birth
to the greatest lack in your life that made D. Jacinto, stimulated, no doubt, by the demon of
pride, which the devil had to rely on feelings, most others, full of charity and mercy.

Was pride in not being afraid of falling into temptation and daring
to brave the hazards, and was admiring the merciful love in this sudden
change sinful woman in acute pain and pity tremendous for the conversion
had been threatened, and the irresistible sympathy which made defeat,
going to deal with it things of the spirit and pure friendship and
welcome him consolation.

Don Jacinto hallucinated in such a way that even for a moment thought that it sinned, but one day
it spoke to Father Athanasius, his confessor, and spoke, not as revealing
a fault own, but to weigh the penitent under the Caramba and treat
the father Athanasius the known and admired.

So when Father Athanasius was painted in the eyes of his soul and
colorfully, the awful danger of falling into mortal sin that he and
Maria Antonia Fernandez were exposed, and resolutely and strictly
forbade him to come back to visit and deal with it.

Jacinto obeyed, not without a fight vigorously and painfully against
friendship and against pure sympathy Maria Antonia Fernandez had inspired.