 

II

On a beautiful day of the month of May last, the Countess Poldy
was alone, as intricacies of the forest, between ten and eleven in
the morning.

Simple and elegantly dressed, wearing the graceful head a graceful Italian straw hat and left
arm slope a small wicker basket. That day was not meditation and contemplation of the beauties natural
for the sole purpose of his trip. Had other more practical. Was she going to pick strawberries
wild, the very delicate that wood produced in abundance, and also take florida some blade of grass,
called waldmeister, which puts on perfume and Conquer and season the Maitrank, delicious drink
of that season and that he liked very much the Countess widow.

Waldmeister looking strawberries, Poldy had strayed from the castle and deep in the the forest,
far more than it used to.

Thus came to be in place very lonely and wild where the thick broken trees that were crowded with
dense foliage, had a small lagoon. On the opposite side of that to which he had approached Poldy,
stood a dark and dilapidated tower. All the land surrounding the lake was damp and vicious. Fumes
malarious birds were scared away from that place. Birds not glad with their songs and chirps as
they did elsewhere in the same forest. Almost sunk roots in water here and there were cattails and
reeds in crowded clumps. On the face of the sleeping water, then curled not the slightest breath
of wind, extended the blade and the round green and broad leaves of water lily, whose white
flowers stood in the still air. Foot of Poldy sank into the grass had grown very high. Every
time fixed in the soil one of her little feet, frightened frogs in the grass were hidden, and gave
great jumping, splashing in stagnant water. The noise was the water, Frogs duck it was the only
thing that interrupted the strange silence that reigned around.

Poldy, by hasty and curious instinct, he walked by the banks of the lagoon to the site where
the tower looked like. And being already very close to him, suddenly saw an object that although
she was not shy, I was a nervous shaking, for being so suddenly and
when least suspicious.

He was a portly white stork, who left behind the tower, and without the slightest fear, but
gentle and serene, it came up with step Poldy slow, grave and majestic. Occasionally shook his
head from side to side with a graceful coquetry. When was closer, took a few hops, extended
and long wings flapped as a sign of joy, and repeatedly opening and closing the red peak,
was a son very similar to castanets. Turning then to walk more slowly and with some hesitation,
as if respect him contained, kept walking toward the bird pilgrim Poldy, and stopping every
two or three steps as if waiting for the permission to get to it.

Poldy understood the intention of the bird, not fear anything because he was considered harmless,
but missed that show him as loving and as resolutely as long strides as he strode come lean toward
it as if it were an old friend. Would you have known and dealt before
and did not remember then?

Poldy sought in vain by all the deepest and forgotten breast of his memory some vague memory
of that knowledge and treatment. Was not the least trace even the slightest trace if any have ever
had. The same could be seen than ever stork Poldy had met because, although could not quite express
in any human language but only castañetazos resonant with its peak, slow of gait, their frequent
stops and each of the looks that way to her brown eyes seemed to mean interrogation Poldy
and supplication, as if to say: charming Countess, may I see I close and treats? There was also
in a stork do not know what the exotic: a weird way of being, well similar to that note in a
traveler of distinction, came from very remote countries, with whom by that stumble and struck
up a conversation without thinking or intending, and only because of sudden and mysterious sympathy.

Poldy
undoubtedly sympathized with the stork. I fell in grace and earned him the will to compliance
respectful and friendly, so the stork gently looked at her. Admitted, back in himself, knew
the stork treat people as they deserved, and that naturally was endowed with exquisite good
manners, but because parenting is not learned, but rather should ease called fine or refined touch
of world.

Finally, Poldy acquiesced to treat the stork without anyone present and not knowing who was
or how many quarters did, she gave also to her a few steps, and reached out and pleasing in
his head touched. The stork was allowed to pet and satisfaction and caresses those noble taste
caused him, squinting eyelids as if asleep and gently rubbing the
long neck on the cover of the lovely lady.

It passed the hand down the neck of a stork, lowering it to the width crop, all covered with abundant
and white feathers. Then he realized with surprise that the stork had there, suspended ribbon
very subtle, a small piece of silk fabric, which flexible and crowded, was very little bulk.

Poldy
could not resist the curiosity or the desire to seize defeat from that pledge. Soon So broke the
tie bar through the garment hung the bird's neck and was with the garment in her hands.

It is not known if frightened or angry then the stork which might consider stripping, removed the
lady suddenly, spread his wings, flew, soared into the air and finally out of sight.

Poldy was embarrassed as if he had committed a theft villain, but in the end, dismissed the scruples,
thinking that she had had no intention of staying with the garment
and was ready to return the bird if the bird came back to it and somehow
the claim.

Poldy unraveled after more than a meter of ribbon was wound into the
fabric of silk, giving form of ball, and unwrapped the cloth, which
was the color of apricots, was written in it with very black ink in
strange lines and several tiny letters.

She looked at them and the Remiro, but in vain, because no one knew. Though he knew and exploited
moderately disciple of his brother, Count Henry, could not quite intently to determine which
alphabet language and those symbols and words belonged. He suspected, however, that registration
silk fabric were in Sanskrit, a language he studied assiduously and
enjoyment of his brother Count Henry.

III

Poldy the castle again spurred by curiosity and eager to decipher his brother he what the web
said. Lunch with very good appetite, and then, while the widowed Countess asleep after lunch,
as was his custom, he went to the library with her brother Henry told him about the bird mosquito,
taught him the silk fabric and begged translate what he had written
it.

Count Henry confessed that he was well versed in the language to translate Valmiki suddenly
the verses, as undoubtedly were verses there were in the fabric, but requested time and promised
her sister have an exact translation of all on the same day.

Indeed, just hours after the count sought Poldy, took her back to the library, and triumphantly
showed him the verses and translated.

- Do not know what to think, he told his sister. Sometimes I imagine that the stork came from
India, where spent the winter, and the verses are the work of a Brahman,
or Nabob Rajah well illustrated, and sometimes, I suspect that it
may be a learned countryman of ours who wrote the verses and who hung
the cloth on the neck of the stork to tease the one who find.

- What
end - Poldy said, was to propose a countryman of ours with that cheating?

I not yet know the verses, but I assured that the author lives on the banks of the Indus or the
Ganges, and not on the Rhine or the Danube. Let's see ... read.

- You'll see and you'll find some inspiration in the verses more European
than Asian.

Compositions are three: two very short, and one of these two seems modeled on four lines of
the Prologue in Heaven of Faust. The coincidence is unlikely. And, although not impossible,
I find strange and suspicious that a brahman read Goethe and imitate
him.

- Come on, read the verses without further preface.

- The verses
say:

I wish to heaven the brightest star; I call this land their
fullest; And no love near or distant love Touched my heart quieted.

-
True, "said Poldy, the verses are very similar to those of Goethe,
unless the poet self says what it says Mephistopheles of Faust.

-
Well, hear these others who have not stopped metaphysics which Christian
mysticism by Tauler style of the teacher or Eckart:

Without wings
and without light the human mind In vain in search of the ideal is
released; But the will goes boasts The immensity of eternal hope.

-
That's true, - said Poldy, and the same can happen to an Indian, a
Christian.

In India since ancient times, so I've heard, mystics as deep as Germany. Moreover, in all countries,
must have been thinkers and poets to imagine and express that could penetrate and come up with
a love that never goes up and enters the rationale by subtle and large it is.

- I will not argue.

I agree that a Brahman may have composed the song that just tell
translated.

    Maybe I in the translation I have rendered
    a European look in the original does
    not. Hear now the final composition.
    The poet falls in it lifts mystical, and folds and human as any earthly
love with love and sensuality inspire women.

Something, however, is still in the composition of the mysticism of others. It's like a small
piece of the Song of Songs, or better say the Gita-govinda, whose
compliments, tenderness and material descriptions can be interpreted
by otherworldly style and transcendent.

The composition in this case also has a uniqueness that has neither the erotic romance of the
Hebrews and the Indians.

    Crishna Solomon saw, heard and touched
    beautiful and love your friends, but
    this poet or touch or see, or
    hear his, if not the imagination with vague uncertain, and in such
a manner that it can live on this planet in another very remote, and
the same may be our contemporary, to be born the last forty centuries
or even be waiting another forty in the world of ideas, before it
reaches the day of his incarnation and its occurrence among people
of our caste.

- Very curious is what you tell me, but it is not original
or new.

It's so hard to be new and original! Do not you love Elena Faust, who lived 2500 years before
he was born? Is there no Arabic or Persian tale, where a Muslim prince, who lived two hundred
or three hundred years after Muhammad, is madly in love with some queen or princess of Serendib
or Sheba, which flourished in the days of Solomon and was Sulamita rival?

- All that is true, but even more vague and indeterminate Mrs. thoughts of our Indian poet. The
Muslim prince in love with the rival Sulamita had found and admired the portrait of her father's
treasure, while there is no picture or is there any indication through which to glimpse or have any
idea or notion of his lady, the author of the verses I have translated. Hear them carefully.

-
I'm all ears.

Count Henry read thus:

Where are you hiding, my beauty, they do not get to see my eyes, As I dream of my fantasy Full
of grace, free of anger?

Come do the Kokila sweet gurgles Do pay the lotus aroma in the wind Come see my longing wish And understand
you my understanding.

You're not dreaming, you really are; Do not pretend these spells soul, Although most beautiful
women Yours will call the immortals.

In the pure light in your eyes Love lights your darts gold and your lips are sealed ballot box
Source of their pleasure and treasure.

Ora reside off the ground Ora show up in another age, For the three worlds in rapid flight I will
go looking for you.

Bright pearl, though hidden In the deep sea are, I know I find you
well in my life For me des exalted prize.

    Poldy heard the verses carefully
    and discussed them with his brother
    and even tried with apparent
    critical coldness, giving some merit and pointing out their many
flaws.

    What she concealed and not revealed
    or his brother or anyone, was the swarm
    of assumptions and dreams verses
    that arose in his imagination.

    Already contained writing them
    an elegant look young brahman, not
    far from his magnificent villa,
    in green bower, on the fertile banks the Kausikí, as composed in
his own palace Ayosia Crown Prince of Kashmir or any other of the
kingdoms and countries that described the ancient epics.

    But the author of the verses
    was a contemporary of her and looked
    her end by the disease and passion
    that tormented him.

    Loved or rather wanted to love,
    nothing worth seeing around
    him of his love, and looking away,
    blindly and without guidance the rare and precious thing that deserves
to be loved.

    
    
    In the depths of his soul Poldy pondered
    much on this, and wove and wove countless stories, their feeling
beautiful, with which she delighted in secret without telling anyone,
not even the old governess Justina who was his confidant.

IV

Engolfadísimo in their studies, Count Henry had no will or understanding but to continuance. In
other matters of life was always subject to the understanding and Poldy will of her sister, whom he
loved greatly. Prohibiole it to speak with one of the meeting of the stork, the verses and the
translation, and Count Henry obeyed and I stopped everything.

Poldy did not want his mother to know of anything.

The Dowager Countess was a lady endowed a positive spirit so prosaically, would certainly have
destroyed all his speeches the poetic assumptions pipe Poldy had risen and that in no way wanted
She nobody tear down.

The widowed Countess Zaheri accused and often also his daughter, calling it extravagant of dreaming,
hallucinations, a staunch enemy of the wise and reasonable, and reckless unattainable ideal
persecuting and absurd. If the widow Countess of thought and ignoring Poldy the success of
the stork, did not they think and what would not say if he knew?

Poldy not return, then, to talk about him or his own brother, as if his own brother ignore,
or as if she had the pretense that he forgot.

Alone, then, and freely, Poldy be included as they desire, the author
of three poems.

Already assumed in Varanasi, and Delhi, and Calcutta, and elsewhere in India, but always noble, young
and beautiful, and Kshatriya or Brahmin, if not a prince.

The unknown character suffered a mental illness similar to Poldy

.