 

So could the barber quietly shaved continue Edwin, dropping their dense foam projectiles that
the spread on the ground were disturbed and frightened jump to the horses of the guards. When given
by this operation is completed, engaged cutting the hair of the giant, tough and dangerous
job.

Armed with a curved saber bearing held between the teeth, were climbing the slopes Skull, clinging
to hair bundles as if they were the thickets of a mountain. Then, using only one hand and brandishing
a scimitar with the other, were hitting to left and right in the thick vegetation. This work
enjoyed greater public that earlier, owing to the skill of the climbers and the dangers that face.
Could kill if they lost to such an enormous foot height.

A great character momentarily distracted the attention of the curious. Wide road was opened
in the crowd to give way to the open space to a two-wheeled carruajito, in the shape of a shell,
pulled by three slaves melancholy garment worn by all a cloth around their bellies. These
human beasts were driven by a woman, dry body, with aquiline nose, eyes, compelling and a whip in his right
hand.

Laurel crown that adorned their temples served to recognize that
even those who had recently arrived to the capital.

- It Golbasto,
is the poet - said they all looked at her with admiration.

She went through the crowd smiling protectively like a god, also became
among the officers females, who greeted her like a national treasure
and considered to be placed by range at the head of all vehicles privileged,
or is next to the legs of the giant.

Distinguished people stopped looking at the man-mountain to look at the great poet, and Golbasto
believed this made necessary murmur some words, like directed to herself, to correspond to the
silent homage of his admirers.

His eyes, accustomed to the dizzy heights of the sublime ideal, soared through the profiles
of mass giant rude to arrive at the top where the barbers working females.

- What audacity! What security! - Singer said in a voice that seemed to call for support Lit
-. Only women are able to do a job so risky.

As the barbers were cutting hair vegetation, the stacked bundles, binding them with her hair
down, just as if they were sheaves of wheat. And were so numerous that the harvesters moved with
difficulty, and one of them inadvertently pushed one of the do, by rolling down the sides of the
skull.

He shouted, waving his sword, to warn of the danger, but the heavy sheaf was faster than his
voice, and came to fall on the poet, bending under their burden stifling.

Ran to save officers who had dismounted and many of the privileged onlookers. The glorious believing
woman was fatally wounded screaming and the crowd, in spite of his admiration ended up with
a merry laugh at her irreverence.

To be sitting in his carriage again, free of the avalanche whip, equal to a huge bundle of reeds,
the fright he had suffered became proud wrath.

- Animal rude! - Shouted teaching fist to Gillespie, as if this were the bomber against his divine
person -. Hippo-Mountain! ... Man had to be! ... And to think a great people care about you!
...

Flushed with his own words, gave a strong whip to one of the calves of giant. Then wrapped in
another lash human his three horses, and those who knew the language
of the flogging, they went at a trot, passing the carruajito the crowd.

The

aggressiveness of the poet almost caused a disaster.

The man-mountain, feeling the sting of the lash in a calf, it was
both hands, bowing.

Those working at the top of his skull lost their balance, clinging to the strong time weeds capillaries
to non-fatal collapse from a height. Two strong men who were on a dropped shoulder, headache, and
had been shattered on the ground of not being stopped by a fold of
the huge canvas that covered the chest giant.

The scale supported by a knee lost his balance, toppling their horses
to three bearded and letting riders badly injured. Several of his
comrades dismounted to take them to the nearest hospital.

Barbers
down the giant's head, saying the operation is finished. The cavalry
gave a charge to expand the piece of land free and the man-mountain
could rise, returning to his home without crushing the curious.

Thus
ended barberil work, and the crowd began to retreat from what had
satisfied and propose to witness again as soon as announced by the
newspapers