 This difficulty would be reasonable if it were an isolated
event, wrapped in some obscurity, subject to a thousand different combinations, when there are
objections against Christianity is not only unfounded, but even contrary to common sense.

§ IX.

The moral failure or ordinary.

The moral failure or regular opposition to the regular and ordinary course of events. This
word is susceptible of many meanings, as the idea that ordinary course
as elastic, is applicable to different objects so that little can
be said in general that be useful in practice.

This failure has nothing to do with the absolute or natural things morally impossible not leave
so much potential to be absolutely and naturally.

We will give a very clear and simple idea of ??the impossibility Ordinarily, if we say it is impossible
thus all that, considering the regular course of things, or very rarely happens once or never. I
see a high character, whose name and titles all spoken, and whom
are taxed the respect due to his rank.

It is morally impossible that the name is of course and the character an impostor. Usually not the
case: But it has also suffered this disappointment once in a while.

We see at every step that the moral impossibility disappears with the help of an extraordinary reason
or unplanned, to pervert the course of events. A captain he heads a handful of soldiers, coming
from distant lands, addressed to unknown shores, and is a vast continent populated by millions
of people. Set fire to their ships, and says leave. Where does it go? A vast kingdoms to conquer
a few hundred men.

This is impossible; the adventurous are you insane?

Let him that his madness is the madness of heroism and genius; the
inability to become historic event.

Surnamed Hernán Cortés, who is Spanish acaudilla Spanish.

§ X.

Impossibility of common sense improperly contained in moral impossibility.

The moral failure is sometimes a very different sense from that set up here. There impossible which
can not be said that they are with absolute impossibility or natural; and yet we live with such certainty
that it's impossible not to be made, that gives us greater natural, and little he needed to
produce the same effect as the absolute. A man have on hand a box of printed characters, we will
assume cube form for that equals the probability of falling and supported by any of their
faces melded repeatedly without rhyme or reason, without even looking
at what he does, and eventually drops them the ground is it possible
that result by chance arranged such that they form the episode Dido?

No, responds instantly anyone in their right mind, expect this accident would be a delusion, so
sure are we that will be fulfilled, that if it became our slope of such a life chance, saying
that if this is confirmed it will kill us, would continue as calm as if there were no condition.

It
is noteworthy that there are no absolute or metaphysical impossibility, for there is in nature
repugnance of the characters essential to put in that way, as a typesetter in a short time
the well would have very easily, there is no natural impossibility, because no law of nature
to preclude falling for this or that side, or to each side the other
as appropriate to the effect: there is thus a failure of another order,
that nothing has in common with the other two, and neither resembles
what is called moral, for only be outside the regular course of events.

The

theory of probability, aided by the combinations, shows this impossibility, calculating, so
to speak, the great distance that this phenomenon is with respect to existence. The Author
of nature did not want a conviction is very important to us, depending on the reason, and therefore
it lacked many men, so we gave them all the way to instinct, as it has done others that we
are equally necessary. In vain I empeñariais in combat or even rudest man, he maybe would not
know what answer you, but wag his head and would say to himself, "this philosopher who believed
in the possibility of such nonsense, should not be too sound trial. "

When nature speaks in the depths of our soul in a voice so clear,
so decisive tone, is foolish not to listen.

Only a few men surnamed philosophers sometimes persist in this endeavor, not remembering that
there is no philosophy to excuse the lack of common sense and that evil will be wise who begins
by being foolish [4].

CHAPTER V.

QUESTIONS OF EXISTENCE, KNOWLEDGE ACQUIRED BY THE TESTIMONY OF THE
SENSES IMMEDIATELY.

§ I.

Need evidence of the senses, and the different ways in which we provide knowledge of things.

Settled principles and rules that should guide us in matters of possibility, let Now to those of existence,
which offer a wider field, and more useful and frequent applications.

The existence or nonexistence of a being, or rather that something is or is not, can we be sure
in two ways: by ourselves, or through others.

Knowledge of the existence of things that is acquired by ourselves, without interference others,
comes from the senses mediate or immediate, or they present us with
the object or impressions that they cause us to spend the understanding
infer the existence what is not sensible or not.

The view immediately informed me of the existence of a building that I have this, but a piece of SECUNDAIRE,
some remains of a pavement an inscription or other evidence, I do know that in such or such
a place existed a temple Roman. In both cases I have the news to
the senses, but in the first instant, the second immediately.

Who lacked the senses would not know the existence of spiritual beings; dormant for understanding
could not get this news, nor reason, nor faith, unless it be that God favored by extraordinary
means, that now it is not.

The distinction explained in any way prejudge up systems that can be taken on origin of ideas,
now they are supposed to be acquired, sometimes innate, sometimes come from the senses, are now
only excited by them, the truth is that we know nothing, think nothing,
if senses have not been in action.

Moreover, until they leave to the ideologues of power imagine what
it will seem good on the intellectual functioning of a man who lacked
of all the senses, we can safely give them so great latitude clarify
course nobody never what it really would have, since the patient would
not be able to communicate what happens, either by words or by signs.

Finally here they are men endowed with senses, and experience shows
that these men know, or what they feel, or by what they feel.

§ II.

Correcting errors on occasion of the senses. Your choice. Examples.

The immediate knowledge that the senses give us of the existence of a thing, is sometimes wrong,
because we serve as we have these wonderful instruments that we have been granted the Author
of nature. Corporeal objects acting on the sense organ, causing an impression on our soul's make
sure what good this impression, we know how point corresponds to the existence of an object Here
are the rules to avoid errors in these subjects. Some explanations teach more than the precepts
and theories.

Long distance to see a moving object, and say, "there's a man 'closer,
I find that it is not, and there is only a bush swayed by the wind.

Have I been deceived sense of sight? No: because the impression that she has sent me a package was
only moved, and if I had the feeling he served well received, would have noticed that I painted a man.
When I wanted him as such, should not blame the meaning, but to my little attention, or noticing
some resemblance to that between the package and a man seen from afar, I inferred that this
ought to be in effect, not realizing that the likeness and reality are very different things.

Having
some background that will be a battle, or are harassing some square, methinks I heard gunshots,
and I stand by the belief that the fire started. Post news I do know that it has fired a shot, who is
to blame for my mistake? not my ear, but me. The noise was heard in effect, but it was the shock
of a woodcutter who echoed the bottom of a distant forest, was to close a door, whose roar echoed
the building and its vicinity, was to anyone else that produced a sound like to the distant roar of a
cannon. "I was pretty sure that was not to my immediate the cause of the noise that gave me
the illusion? Was quite exercised to discern indeed, considering the distance that the fire was
to be the address of the place, and the wind prevailed at that time?

It is because the sense he has deceived me, but my lijereza and precipitation. The feeling was
as it ought to be, but I've been saying what she told me. If I had been content to say that I heard
noise like distant cannon fire, had not to mislead others and to myself.

One would have a food of excellent quality, and the test says, "is bad, intolerable, is known that
there is this or that mix, "because in effect your palate and experience it. Would you cheated
meaning? no. If it seemed bitter, could not be otherwise, considering
the indisposition stomach which was covered with the language of a
humor that maleaba everything.

Bastabales to this man a little reflection to condemn not so easily
or the servant or the reseller.

When the palate is ready and his feelings tell us the qualities of
food in Otherwise no.

§ III.

Need to employ in some cases more than one way, for proper comparison.

It should be noted that known through the senses the existence of an object, not enough sometimes
use one, but it is necessary to employ others at the same time, or attend to the circumstances
we can guard against the illusion. It is true that the discerning extent corresponds to the existence
of an object to the sensation we receive, we work of the comparison, which is based on experience.
A blind man whom cataracts are removed, it does not judge the distances, sizes and shapes, until
you gain the practice of viewing. This acquisition we do without noticing since childhood,
and so we believe that only to look to judge of objects such as are in themselves. A very simple
experience and are often convince them otherwise. An adult man and a child of three years are
looking through a glass offered by the sight landscapes, animals, armies, both receive the same
impression; But the adult, who knows who has never left the field, and is in a closed room, not altered
either by the proximity of wild beasts, or by disasters of the battlefield. The hard it is to preserve
the illusion, and more than once must be diverted from reality, and to supply some defects
or tool box for pleasure with the presence the show.

But the child that does not compare, which only serves to feel at all isolated, is frightened
and crying, fearing that he had to eat the beasts, or seeing how cruelly soldiers are killed.

Still
more: experience at every step an excellent perspective from which we had no News, views to the
corresponding distance illusion causes us and makes us take for objects of relleve they actually
are flat. The feeling is not wrong, but it is the trial which it formed. If advirtiésemos that
fit the rules for producing the same retina printing with a blunt object with another large, we had
indulged in the ability Artist without falling into error.

This would have gone looking at the object from different points
or availing of touch.

§ IV.

The body healthy and sick at heart.

Those who seek the good use of the senses often warn that care must be taken that any indisposition
does not affect the organs, and so we are able to communicate feelings deceive This is certainly very
cautious, but not as useful as people think. Patients rarely engaged to serious studies, and
so his mistakes are of little importance, besides themselves, or their relatives, soon noticed
the alteration of the body, thereby preventing timely the error. Those are the rules need
to be healthy in body are not in spirit and worried thinking put at his disposal and service
all your senses, making perceive, perhaps with the utmost good faith,
all that should excogitating system support.

What did not discover in the heavenly bodies the astronomer who runs the telescope, not profit
calm and unaware of bias, but with strong desire to prove a risky assertion lijereza more than
enough? What you will not see under the microscope, the naturalist who is in disposition similar?

By
the way I said that these errors were likely to suffer perhaps with the utmost good faith, because
happens very often that the man is deceived himself first, before deceiving others. Dominated by their
favorite opinion, anxious to find out the real tests, examines objects not to know but to overcome,
and thus it happens that is in them all you want. Many times the senses do not tell anything about
what he intended, but offer something similar: "This is, exclaims jubilantly, Lo here is what
I suspected," and when rising doubt in his mind, seeks to stifle
it, achácala to little faith in its irresistible doctrine strives
to satisfy himself, closing his eyes to the light to deceive the other
without being compelled to lie.

Enough to have studied the human heart to know that these scenes are not uncommon, and we play
with ourselves in a pitiful way. Do we need a conviction? as in one way or another worked in
formárnosla, at first the task is expensive, but in the end the habit is to strengthen the weak,
will he go to disallow the pride back, and fighting that began with
a hoax himself that he was not hiding at all, just by actually be
fooled, and delivered his apparently incorrigible stubbornness.

§ V.

Real feelings, but without external object. Explanation of this phenomenon.

In addition, it is necessary to note that not always the case that stunned feeling attributed
to the more than what she has, a lively imagination possessed of an object, work on the same senses,
and altering the normal course of duties, it is actually feel it is not there. To understand how
this takes place, we should remember that feeling not verified in the sense organ but the brain, rather
than force of habit refer us to the point of the impression which we receive. While the eye
stayed very healthy completely blind, if you suffer injury to the optic nerve, and private
communication from a member anyone with a brain, the sense is extinguished. From this it follows
that the real receptacle of all sensations is the brain, and that if one of its parts is excited
by an act inside the impression that is normally produced by the action of an external body,
there will feeling that there was no exterior posters. That is, if upon receiving the external
body the impression of a body, the brain communicates to the nerve
causing the vibration or other B affection, and by any cause, independent
of external bodies, there is in the same body at the same vibration
B, will experience the same feeling that if the body external reality
was affected.

At this point are in accord reason and observation. The soul is informed of objects immediately
outside the senses, but immediately by the brain when it get this or that posters can not ignore
her refer you to where usually proceeding and usually the object that produces it. If it is
advised that the organization is altered, it precaverá against error, but will not be leaving
to receive the sensation, but wary of her testimony. When Pascal, she says, saw a gap to his
hand, well knew that in fact they were not, but kept receiving the same feeling that if there
had been on such an abyss, and not enough to overcome the illusion of more to endeavor. This
phenomenon takes place very often, and is not nothing strange to
those who have some notions about such matters.

§ VI.

Cranky and withdrawn.

What usually happens in a state of brain disease, can occur very well when exalted the imagination
by any cause, now becomes sick with relationship what worries them. What are hobbies, but the
realization of this phenomenon? Well understood hobbies that are distributed in many classes
and graduations, which are continuous and at intervals, and arranged
extravagant, vulgar and scientific, and just as Don Quixote windmills
turned into monstrous giants, and herds of sheep and goats in armies
of combatants, you can also find a stubborn sage with the help of
their telescopes, microscopes and other instruments, whatever their
intention to comply.

The very thinkers and self-absorbed men at high risk of mania wise, in the illusions sublime to the
wretched humanity, but it is covered with different forms depending on various life situations,
always brings its heritage of weakness. For a weak little woman the whisper of the wind is
a mysterious moan, the moonlight is the appearance of a deceased, and the cry of night birds is the
cry of the evocations of hell for go to terrifying scenes.

Unfortunately, there are only women who have imagination fevered,
and take for reality the dreams of his fantasy [5].

CHAPTER VI.

KNOWLEDGE OF THE EXISTENCE OF THE ITEMS PURCHASED BY THE SENSES MEDIATE.

§ I.

Sorry to transition from the non-sense.

The senses are immediately given us news of the existence of many objects, but these are still
larger number who do not exercise the action on the material organs, or because incorporeal,
or for not being disposed to affect them. To what the senses tell us stands a building as large
and high knowledge of all kinds, looking at him is difficult to conceive how this could have
grounded in such small bases.

Can not reach the senses comes understanding, knowing the existence of objects insensitive by
the sensitive. The lava spread over an area know us the past existence of a volcano that we
have seen, the shells found at the summit reminiscent of a mountain the elevation of the water,
indicating a catastrophe we have not seen, some underground work shows that in earlier times
benefited a mine there, the ruins of ancient cities show us the abode of men not we have known.
So the way we have an object, and with this understanding comes half the knowledge of others
very different.

While noting this passage from the known to the unknown we can not do without Before we have any
idea more or less complete, more or less general unknown object,
and without at the same time we know that there is some dependence
between the two.

So in the examples put forward, but did not know that particular
volcano or waves that swept the mountain or to the miners, nor to
the inhabitants, despite all these objects were known to me general
and its relations with what they offered me the senses.

In the contemplation of the marvelous machine of the universe we
would not knowledge of the Creator, but we had causes and effects
idea of ??order and intelligence.

And it is by the way, this single observation enough to disrupt the system that are not in our
thoughts more than feelings transformed.

§ II.

Coexistence and succession.

The dependence of the objects is all that can empower us to infer the existence of one of the
other, and thus the whole difficulty lies in knowing this dependence.

If the intimate nature of things were clear to our view, suffice to fix be to find a course all
their properties and relationships among them discover which you are linked with others. Unfortunately
it is not, for in the physical order as in the moral, are very scarce and incomplete ideas we
have about the founding principles beings. These are precious secrets
carefully veiled by the hand of the Creator; of itself so that the
richest and most exquisite nature shelters, sometimes concealed in
the most hidden breast.

Because of this lack of knowledge with regard
to the essence of things, we often are compelled to guess their dependence
on only their coexistence or succession, implying that one depends
on another, because there are few or many times together, or because
this is after that