 

The name of Dona Bernarda, under terrible representation, falling in the middle of the conversation became
serious at all in the circle.

- The stranger - Rafael said he wanted to divert the conversation
- is that they all agree now the doctor's daughter.

It's been years and years, without anyone saying his name.

- These are things here - said the old man .-- The of your age you had not seen, and your parents,
who knew the doctor and his daughter, have always been careful not to get Talk to this woman, who,
as your mother says is the disgrace of Alcira. Occasionally he knew something, a story that Cupid
caught in newspapers and spread out there, a revelation the silly Dona Pepa, which had the curious
glories of his niece abroad; many lies that were invented is not known where or by whom. All
this was hidden as fire under the ashes. If that girl is not back to Alcira had happened ...
nothing. But it has come, and suddenly everyone is talking about it, and it is they know or think
they know their lives disgorge the news for many years. Would you believe me, my children? I've seen
slut always realize it, but here lies a lot ... much, is up a bad witness the same divine word,
and not as much as they say ... If one were to ignore! Was not Poor
Don Ramon, the greatest man on this earth?

What things said about him? ...

And no more was said about the daughter of Dr. Moreno. Rafael knew he desired. Woman was born a
short distance from where he was born, his childhood had been almost
together and yet, in the first game of his life, he had felt separated
from the chill of the unknown.

This separation would increase. She made fun of the city, lived outside its influence, in the
countryside, contempt, and the city would not go to it.

How close? ... Rafael was tempted that evening, walking aimlessly through the streets to look
at her shop to the barber Cupido. The cheerful bohemian Alcira was the only one that entered his home.
But fear stopped backbiting tongue.

At the respectability of a party man he hated to get into that barbershop papered with sheets
of the Mutiny and presided by the portrait of Pi y Maragall. How would you justify your presence
there, which had never entered? How explain to Cupido interest in this woman, without exposed
to the same night the entire city knew?

He passed twice against the striped barber crystals, not daring to
put hand on the knob, and finally take the field, following the riverbank
slowly staring at that blue farmhouse, which had never drawn his attention,
and now seemed the most beautiful paradise of orange dilated.

For among the trees I saw the balcony of the house and with it a woman unfolding bright clothes,
fine colors and skirts that shake to clear the folds of oppression in the suitcases.

It was the Italian maid, red-haired Beppa that he had seen the previous afternoon, accompanying his
wife.

He thought the girl looked at him, recognized him through the foliage, despite the distance, and
feeling a sudden fear of kid who is caught in full prank again back and walked rapidly towards
the city, after experiencing some satisfaction, as if something had advance knowledge of Leonora,
only arriving near the blue house.

V

The first rains of winter fell with emphasis on the region. The gray sky, loaded clouds, seemed
to touch the treetops. The red earth of the fields darkened under the continuous downpour, the
deep, winding roads between the fences and hedges of orchards, convertíanse
in ravines; paralizábase laborious life and poor crop orange, sad
and tearful, encogíanse under the deluge, such as protesting in this
change jump in the country of the sun.

The river rose. The red water and gelatinous, like liquid clay, crashed into the pillars bridges,
boiling and removed piles of dry leaves.

The inhabitants of the houses the immediate Júcar with anxious eyes followed the river bank and
planted in cane and sticks to convince higher level.

- Munta ?...-- asked those living in the interior.

- Yes, Munt - answered the riverside.

The water rose slowly, threatening the city boldly had taken root in the middle its course.

But
despite the danger, residents were not alarmed beyond a curiosity. Nobody felt fear or leaving
their home for the bridges, looking for shelter on land. Why Why? That would be like all flood.
It was inevitable from time to time the wrath of the river: up had
to thank her, because it was unexpected fun, a nice suspension work.

The trust was quiet Moorish people. The same was done in time their parents, their grandparents
and great grandparents, and was never the population: some houses while more. What was to
occur now the disaster? ... The river was a friend of Alcira: were kept the affection of a
married couple, kisses and slaps, it took six or seven centuries
of common life.

In addition, for the little people, was there the father San Bernardo, as powerful as God in everything
he touched to Alcira, and only able to tame this monster developed its undulating waves red
rings.

It rained day and night, and yet the city, for its animation, seemed to party. The boys, emancipated
from school for bad weather, the bridges were throwing branches to assess the current speed,
or descending on the streets surrounding the river to post signs,
waiting for the water surface, widening, came to them.

People in the coffee ran down the streets away from the big forwards, whose channels spewed
jets as broken arms, and after looking at the river, under the shelter
of their weak umbrella became too self-satisfied, stopping at every
house to give his opinion about the flood.

Was a difference of opinion, discussions and various prophecies burning, waving City one end
to another with the warmth and vehemence of the southern blood.

Was disputed, cooled friends, if in half an hour the river had risen four fingers or one, and
was shortly to come to blows over whether the flood was more important than the last.

Meanwhile the sky, crying incessantly for its many eyes, the swelling river of roaring anger,
with their red tongues licking the entrance to the lower streets, asomábase the gardens of the
banks and penetrated by orange groves, after opening holes in the hedges and the walls.

The only concern was whether it would rain while in the mountains of Cuenca. If down water there,
the flood would be serious. And the curious made efforts at dusk by guessing the color of the
water, fearing see blackish, a sure sign that came from the other province.

Lasted about two days the deluge. Night fell and the darkness sounded gloomy roaring river. Reflejábanse
on its black surface, like restless fish fire, riverside house lights
and lanterns from prying examining the banks.

On the streets low water, when extended, seeped under the doors.

Women and the boys refugiábanse in barns, and men with bare legs, splashed in the muddy liquid,
thereby excluding farm implements, or pulling a donkey receding scared,
getting more and more water.

All those people from the suburbs, when viewed in the darkness of the night, the house flooded mocking
lost his temper that had boasted during the day. The fear of what dominated the sought supernatural
protection to child anxiety, a strong power to tackle the danger. Perhaps this flood was the
final. Who knows if they would be for them perish with the last remains of the city? ... The
terrified women screamed upon seeing the miserable streets turned into canals.

- The San Bernat stop! ... You swallow to stop St. Bernard!

The men looked anxiously. No one could fix this as the glorious pattern. It was time to look
for, what other times that it might be the miracle.

Had to go to city hall: gentlemen force viso, unbelieving people something
to bring forth out the saint to console the poor.

At one point there was a large army.

Out of the gloomy streets, splashing in the water like frogs, shouting their war cry: St. Bernard!
St. Bernard! Men arms and legs rolled up, or nudity, no other concession to modesty that belt,
that garment that never comes off the skin of the peasant, women
skirts at the top, sinking in the mud your toast and lean legs of
beasts of burden, all wet from head to feet, with clothes hanging
limp and stuck to the meat.

In front of the huge group were a few guys went to wind axes, whose roaring flames curled in the rain
Fire walking their reflections on the vociferous crowd.

- St. Bernard! St. Bernard! ... Viva San Bernat stop!

Passed through the streets with noise and violence of a mutinous people, under the continuous drip
from the sky and jets from the eaves.

Abríanse doors and windows, new binding delusional voices to shout, and at each intersection,
a crowd thickened the black avalanche.

Iban all the council, angry and menacing like something that could
deny request, and the crowd could be seen guns, old guns and old guns
huge saddle as muskets.

It seemed that the river would be killed.

The mayor, with all of the council, was waiting at the doorstep of the city. They come running, followed
by marshals and people of the round, to cope with the riot.

- What voleu? - The mayor asked the crowd.

What was to love! The only remedy, salvation, lead to omnipotent saint to the edge the river to
tuck you fear your presence, what they were doing centuries their
ancestors, thanks to which the city still existed.

Some neighbors who were poorly regarded by people in the field because of their unbelief, smiling.
Would not it be better to leave the houses near the river? A tempest of protests followed this
proposition. Out! They wanted to come out the holy! That did the trick, as always!

And went to the memory of ordinary people the memory of wonders, learned in childhood on the
slopes of the mother as often as in former centuries had enough poke
to San Bernardo an alley from the shore, so that was immediately down
river, disappearing like water from a pitcher it is broken.

The mayor, faithful to the Brull dynasty, was puzzled. He frightened the populace wanted access,
as usual, but was not seeing a serious lack Quef.

Fortunately, when the great black mass began to stir indignation by their silence and out of it hostile
whistles and screams, came Rafael.

Dona Bernarda had made out the first hint of the popular event.

In those circumstances was wearing when her husband, giving provisions that nothing served.
But River returning to normal and away the danger, the herd popular admired their sacrifices
called the father of the poor.

If the miraculous saint had to leave, it was Rafael who grant permission. The elections of deputies
were coming, the flooding could not get more opportunity.

None of carelessness, or give her a scare, but to do something, for people to speak of him as he
spoke of his father in such cases.

Rafael Thus, after taking account of the most exalted expression of
the desire ordered with a majestic gesture:

- Granted, that bring
to St. Bernard.

Between a roar of applause and cheers Brull, the black avalanche headed for the church.

Had to talk to the priest to make the holy and the good priest, good-natured, overweight and so sly,
always refused to accede to what he called a traditional masquerade. He was pleased to recently come
out in procession, under an umbrella, rolled up his cassock, losing
every step of the shoes in the mud.

In addition, any day, after taking in supplication to San Bernardo, the river had half the city, and in
what position, - as he put it - was the religion because of that crowd of vociferous?

Rafael and his acolytes in the council were trying to convince the
priest, but this only answered his request by asking if he came Basin
water.

- I think - said the mayor .-- You see that this increases
the danger and becomes accurate output of the saint.

- For if there
is water - said the pastor - it's best to let it go, and San Bernardo
stay at home. These saints have things to play with great discretion,
believe me ... And if you remember from that stream where the water
went over the bridges. We took the saint, and came near to the river
water take him down.

The crowd concerned about the delay, screaming
against the priest. It was a strange sight to see church man protesting
in the name of good sense, pretending to fight concerns piled by centuries
of fanaticism.

- Since you want it, either - he said at last .--
Take out the holy and God have mercy us.

A huge cheer from the crowd,
which filled the church square, welcomed the news. Rain was still
falling and the serried ranks of heads covered with skirts, blankets
and some other umbrella, passing the red flames of the torches scarlet
staining the wet side.

Smiling people under temporary confidence
that success, rejoicing in advance with the terror of the river just
in it entered the holy image. What could not San Bernardo? His story
portentous, like a romance of Moors and Christians, all imaginations
inflamed. Was a holy land: the second son of the Moorish king of Carlet.
For his talent, his courtesy and beauty, won much success in the court
of King of Valencia, who became prime minister, and when his master
had to go into negotiations with the King of Aragon, sent to Barcelona
to San Bernardo, then called Prince Hamet.

On his journey, arrives
one night at the gates of the monastery of Poblet. The chants of the
Cistercians, spreading vagorosos mystics and in the stillness of the
night through the arches, stir the soul of the young Saracen, who
is attracted to the religion of the enemies by the charm poetry