 Where I
find it? Society is not virtuous or vicious. What are the people who compose it. And the vice
is more common virtue. "

Sometimes thought Don Braulio:

"If I banned my wife that was to accompany the Rosita, everyone who knew or presumed to be make
fun of me ... and with good reason. I would distrust samples not I honor and honor to my life partner.
Would believe that the suspected light or easily. My wife would exert
against a tyrannical act, which would also have something libelous.

She would then have reason to stop loving me ... to hate ... maybe to despise. "

The mere assumption that his wife came to not love him, hate him or despise him ... waving nerves
unhappy.

He was agitated, as if the sky were to fall out over, and only calmed down, just passing tempest
of his soul, when tears came to his eyes and vented with them the feeling of the heart.

Ines Beatriz and were therefore in complete freedom to go to Rosita
everywhere, and not failed to seize it.

Don Braulio became complicit in this, accompanied not infrequently. Then I used to feel the most opposite
emotions. Some were nice, some very unpleasant but all cleverly concealed by him.

The Don Braulio unpleasant emotions born of distrust of himself, tormented him. Recognized tired,
melancholy, old, slightly pleasant, shabby, inelegant, and each see step understanding men whose
clothes, whose moral worth, whose soul, in short, we seemed far inferior to what in his own being
noticed and appreciated, but they were at the same time, so superior to him in all that noticeable
and more easily estimated, for example, distinction and ease of manner,
youth, physical beauty, health and vigor, amenity and joy in treatment,
lightness and grace in conversation, he looked like inexplicable prodigy
his wife did not liked, rather than him, of any of these men.

Corroborated in his mind persuasion so sad thinking skills that he seen in men, and which was deemed
inadequate. The waltz was his despair. It a man admired waltz well, it seemed beautiful, lovely
waltz, and said to yourself, "What will my wife from me, not waltz?" More still admired by young
people hunt, pulling a gun and the foil, skating, riding on horseback, and are agile and strong
for all this. Even those who deal or are graceful in calves caused her tricycle envy. Back in
his conscience, yet secret, declaring to himself our Don Braulio that being a woman, he would
be very close to falling in love with a handsome young man who had such skills. So he gave
the unhappy the devil, and had made a pact with fixed him surrendering his soul, if the overnight
he had become clumsy in fast and of puny in robust, granting under skating, waltz, ride, fence,
fight, hunting and cycles.

Don Braulio just wanted to believe in spiritualism of women when they often prefer to the above
skills other manly virtues, but even so, what evidence there given him these other virtues? What
battle was won? What poem was written? What speech was delivered in Parliament? How much money was
earned in the stock market in the game or business? What picture was painted? What statue was carved?
What brand system philosophy had created in his mind?

What new machine or contrivance had given the industry human?

Don Braulio is plunged in such meditations, and out of them so mean and base their own eyes,
which instilled shame. He was unnerved and prostrate.

He looked at his wife, which was really beautiful, elegant, discreet. Appeared to him worthy
of a throne worthy of going in magnificent carriages, stepping Alcatifa of Persia, lace dress silks
and delicious, to receive adoration of the wise and brave and rich,
to award merit, skill, poetry, science and daring with a sweet look
of love.

Y as Don Braulio had done nothing to earn the award, almost persuaded that he was usurping,
that was a miserable possessor.

Doña Beatriz, meanwhile, was delighted
to all men of the party of her friend. His joy was talkative, his
speech, delightful