 

Nina could not take his mind the image of Doña Paca, or ceased to imagine, and in a way, and
of another foster care home that would be. At times he expected to be received with joy, at times
feared find Dona Francisca furious at having her request that alms, and above all, to go with
a Moor. But nothing put in so much turmoil and confusion his mind as the idea of ??the developments
that had to be found in the family, as Antonio with vague references to tell the exit Pardo.
Doña Paca, and he, and Obdulia were rich! How? This was something sudden, brought from the
overnight by D. Romualdo ... Go to Don Romualdo! He had invented it, and dark breast of the
invention out person Indeed, doing miracles, bringing wealth, and turning into reality the
dream gifts Quia Samdai King! This could not be. Nina suspicious, believing it was all joke
Antonito Joker, and instead of finding Francisca swimming in the abundance, find drowning,
as always, in a sea of ??traps and misery.

XXXVIII

Trembling came to the Imperial road, and having ordered the
Moor that was leaning against the wall and wait there while she went
up and found out whether he could not stay where he was home, Almudena
said: "No you bandon me, Amri.

- Are you mad?

"Forsake me now that you are unwell, and the two walk as the doldrums? Do not think such nonsense,
and Stay there. I will put you over there at the entrance of the street Lett.

- Would not you n'gañar me? "Golven you ready?

- In seguidita see what happens over, and if you are in a good temper
my Doña Paca.

"

Nina climbed out of breath, and with great anxiety rang the bell. First surprise: he opened the
door an unknown woman, young woman, of tipitos elegant, very clean with her apron. Benina thought
he was dreaming. Surely the devil had taken up the house to weight bear her, leaving in place
one that looked the same and very different. Entered the fugitive without ask, with no little
astonishment of Daniela, who at first did not know. But what they meant, what they were, where
they came from those gardens, which were as precious Mall shrubs from the door, all along
the corridor? Benina rubbed his eyes, thinking found even under the action of the stupid drowsiness
del Pardo in the fetid and stifling blocks. No, no that was not home, could not be, and confirmed
the emergence of another unknown figure, as a cook fine on straight, haughty countenance ...
And looking the dining room, whose door at the end of the hall opened, saw ... Good God, how
wonderful, what else ...! Was it dream? No, no, that it was safe to see with our bodily eyes.
Top the table, but not touching her, as if suspended in the air, there were plenty of precious stones
with different brightness, lights and shades, ingrown nails, others blue or green. Jesus, what beautiful!
Do Doña Paca, smarter than her, had made the spell of the king Samdai, requesting and obtaining
from him the truckloads of diamonds and sapphires? Before I could understand that whosoever glass
sparkle came from the flaps of the lamp room, illuminated by a candle that had just lit Doña Paca to
review the knives of the house Juliana bring loans had appeared at the door of this room, and cutting
happened to poor old said between laughing and tasteless:

- "Hello, Nina, are you here? Did you like now?

We thought you had gone to Congo ... No passes do not enter, stay there, we're going to get lost
soil, washed this evening ... Bonita come! ... Stand back those legs, woman, you stain the tiles
...

- Where's the lady? - Nina said, turning to look at the diamonds and
emeralds, and doubting and they were effective.

- The lady is here
... But he says no passes, it will come full of misery ...».

At that time appeared on the other hand Miss Obdulia, screaming: "Nina, welcome you are, but
before you get home, you have to fumigant and put in the wash ...
No, no I stand next to me.

So many days between poor filthy! ... See how nice is it? ".

Juliana moved towards her smiling, but through the smile, there was a glimpse Nina Edger authority
that was able to win there, and said: "This is now commands.

It is well known despotism. " In the arrogance with which benevolence coated he welcomed the
tyrant, said Nina would not leave without seeing his wife.

"Woman, go, go - he murmured from the back of the room, his voice choked by sobs Mrs. Dona Francisca
Juarez.

Staying at the door, a voice replied Benina whole "Here I am, ma'am, and as say staining the tiles,
do not want to spend, say no way ... Things have happened to me you do not want to tell you
not to grieve her ... They carried dam, have been hungry ... I have suffered shame, abuse ...
I kept thinking about the lady, and whether they would also hunger, and if he would be helpless.

-
No, no, Nina: Since you been gone, look what happened! entered the lot at my house ... It seems
a miracle, right? Do you remember what we talked aburriditas in this solitude, ah! in those nights
of misery and suffering?

Well, the miracle is a truth, daughter, and you can We understand
that you have done your Don Romualdo, the blessed, the archangel,
who in his modesty not want to confess the benefits that you and I
owe ... and denies its merits and virtues ... and says there is Patros
niece Dona ... and that have been proposed for Bishop ... But he is,
is it because there can be no other, no he can not have, to make these
wonders.

"

Nina did not answer syllable, and leaning on the door, sobbing.

"I gladly receive you here again - said Dona Francisca, whose side, in shadow, Juliana was, suggesting
it under what he would say - but do not fit at home very uncomfortable and we are here ...
You know I love you, your company pleases me more than anything ... but ... you see ... Tomorrow
we'll move, and you make a hole in the new house ... What you say? Got something to say? Child, you
can not complain, keep in mind that you went the wrong way, without leaving a crumb of bread at
home, alone, abandoned ... Go to Nina!

Frankly, your conduct deserves me to be a little severe with you
... And everything speaks against yours, you forgot the sound principles
always taught you, largándote company into the world in a Moraza ...
God knows what breed of bird is this, and what spells will have achieved
make you forget about morality.

Tell me, confiésamelo all: do you have left now?

- No, ma'am.

-
Have you brought with you?

- Yes, ma'am.

Below is waiting.

- As you are well, can you think of everything ... Up to bring him home!

- At home I had, because he is sick, and I will not leave the street
- said Benina in a firm voice.

- I know you're good, and sometimes
your goodness you blind and do not look for the honor.

- Nothing
has the decency to do with this, and I miss it go to Almudena, a poor
thing.

He loves me ... and I look like a child. "

The ingenuity with which he expressed his thought Nina did not penetrate the soul of Doña Paca,
without leaving your seat, and the knives on the side, he continued saying

"There is no other like you to fix things, and tweak your faults until
you get that look perfections, but I love you, Nina, I recognize your
good qualities, and not leave you ever.

- Thank you, ma'am, thank
you very much.

- Do not miss what you eat, no bed to sleep.

I've served, I've followed, I have held in my adversity.

You're good, very good, but not abuse, child, do not tell me you were coming home with the
Moor of dates, because believe you've gone mad.

- At home I had, yes, ma'am, as I brought Frasquito Ponte, for charity ... If there was mercy the
other, why should not having this? Or is that love is one for the gentleman frock coat, and another
for the poor naked? I do not think so, I can not tell ... Therefore we brought, and if he does
not admit, will be the same as if I was not admitted.

- You always ... I say, not always ... I mean ... we have no gap in home ... We four women, you
see ... Will you come back tomorrow? The wretched places in a good inn ... not What nonsense! Hospital
... Simply go to D. Romualdo ... Tell him from me I would recommend ... you look at just my own
... Oh, I do not know what I mean! ... as something of yours, and so you ... In short, daughter,
you see ... May you shelter in the house of Mr. Kidron to be very big ... you told me it's a
huge coffer seems a convent ... I well know, as imperfect creature, I have no virtue in a
heroic degree that need to switch to pobretería dirty and smelly ... No, daughter, do not: a question
of stomach and nerve ... I would die of disgust, you know. As I say, with the misery that will
bring about you! ... I love you, Nina, but I know my stomach ... I see a speck in the food,
and I already stir it all, and I'm sick three days ... Take your clothes if you want to move
... Juliana you give you what you need ... Do you hear what I say? Why are you silent? Ya, now
I understand. You get the humble best to hide your pride ... I forgive you everything, you
know that I love you I'm good for you ... In short, you know me ...
What?

- No, ma'am, I have not said anything, I have nothing to say
- Nina muttered between two sighs deep -.

Stay with God.

- But do not go mad at me - said in a tremulous voice Doña Paca, following her distance in its
slow march down the aisle.

- No, ma'am ... you know that I do not get mad at her old lady replied
...-- more compassionate than angry -.

Bye bye. "

Obdulia led his mother to the dining room saying, "Poor Nina! ... Leaves. Well look, I would
have liked to see that moro Muza and talk to him ... This Juliana, who all want to get !...».

Stunned
by cruel doubts that baffled his spirit could not express Dona Francisca no idea, and continued
to review the silverware performed. Meanwhile, Juliana, leading the Nina to the door with soft
oppression of his hand on the back of the beggar, the dismissed with
these warm words: "Do not worry, Sena Benina that nothing must be
lacking ... I forgive you the drive that I paid last week, do not
you remember?

- Lady Juliana, I do remember.

Thanks.

- Well, well take this one hard to suit tonight ... Go tomorrow home,
you'll find there clothes ...

- Lady Juliana, God bless.

- Nowhere
else will you be better than Mercy, and if you want, I myself will
speak D. Romualdo, if you get embarrassed.

Doña Paca and I recommend ... For my wife mother-in put their trust
in me and gave me money to keep it ... and to rule the house, and
furnishes as you need.

Much has to thank God have fallen into these hands ...

- Good hands, Madam Juliana.

- Take home, and tell him what to do.

- Perhaps I know without you telling me.

- That you will ... If you do not want to go home ...

- I will go.

-
Well, Sena Benina, until tomorrow.

- Lady Juliana, servant to you.

"

Quickly dropped the worn steps, eager to be seen soon in the street.

When she reached the blind, which was waiting nearby place, the immense grief that oppressed
the heart of the poor mourn old burst into a fiery, anguished, and struck his forehead with his
fist, exclaimed: "Ungrateful, unthankful, ungrateful

- No yorar you, Amri - said the blind loving, tearful Talking -. Lady yours ill be your angel.

-
What ingratitude, Lord ... Oh world ... oh misery!

... Affront to God is to do well ...

- Dir us Lueje ... Dirna, Amri ... Mondo Dispreciar you wrong.

- God sees the hearts of all, mine is too ... See it, Lord of heaven
and earth, see it soon.

"

XXXIX

Having said that, he wiped his tears with a trembling hand, and thought
in making decisions practical than the circumstances demanded.

"Dirna, Dirna - Almudena said grabbing her arm.

- Where? - Nina said with astonishment -. Ah! the former home of D. Romualdo. "

As he said this name stood for a moment lela, completely idiotic.

-
"R'maldo lie - said the blind.

- Yes, yes, my invention was.

Which has been so much wealth to the lady will be another one D. Romualdo glue ... creature of
the devil ... No, no, the glue is mine ... I do not know, I know.

Come on, Almudena. Think you're bad, you need to spend well sheltered at night. Juliana Sena,
which is now cut the cheese in the house of my lady, and all supplies ... in good time is ...
has given me this hard. I'll take you to the palaces of Bernarda,
and tomorrow we'll see.

- Tomorrow, we Hierusalaim dir.

- Where
did you say?

To Jerusalem? And where is that? Well, we want to carry that point, as it were, a supposition, or
Carabanchel Jetafe Down!

- Lueje, Lueje ... you marry me and be a Migo tigo.

Marseille Dirna roads asking ... In Marseille steam ... pim, pam ... Jaffa ... Hierusalaim! ...
Arreligión married by your own, arreligión mine ... you want ...
Veder you Sepulchre, enter S'nagoga you pray Adonai ...

- Hold on,
son, have a little quiet, and I'm not dizzy with the inventions of
your head delusions.

The first thing you wear is good.

- Me to be good ... I do not c'lentura
and ... contented me.

You come Migo always, mondo large walk mochas, freeing, sea, terra, Legria mocha ...

- Very nice, but now I realize that you and I are hungry, and get to dinner in any tavern. If
you think, here in the Cava Baja ...

- Onde want you, I want ...».

Dined with relative content, and Almudena not stop to ponder the joys of going juntitos to Jerusalem,
begging by land and by sea, without hurry, without care. It would take months half a year maybe,
but finally give their bodies in Palestine, although undertake by land to Constantinople. As there were
few attractive countries to go! Nina that she had objected and bones would be hard for so
long, and Africa, not and knowing how to persuade, he said: "terra Ispani n'gratituda ... Running
Lueje, juyando of n'gratos them. "

As they dined are reflected in Bernarda's house, bedrooms down, two real bed. Almudena was quiet
all night, unable to fall asleep, stuck with the short trip to Jerusalem, and Benin, to see
to calm him, showed himself willing to undertake so long pilgrimage. Restless and sore, as if the bed
of brambles out punching, Mordechai did nothing turn from side to side, complaining of burning
in the skin and itching grievous, which were not motivated, that is the truth, about anything concerning
the misery fought with insecticide dusts. This came perhaps a strange turn took the fever,
and is told the next morning in a red rash on arms and legs. The unfortunate desperately scratched
and Benin took him to the street, hoping that the air free and the exercise will serve as a
relief. After wandering about asking, not as usual, went to San Carlos Street, and went to
see Juliana Benina, there he had his clothes, and gave it a mess, saying that while it managed to
be contained in the Mercy lodged in any house price, with or without
man, but he was better, for decency left so friendly and indecent
treatment.

He added that once it was cleaned of all the filth that had brought the Pardo, could go visit
Dona Paca, to joyful receive it, but I did not expect to return to his side, because the children
were opposed to it, mindful that his mother was well served, and provided regularly. Yet he
was as the good woman who saw in it a superior untestable.

Juliana was not a bad person, parent, yes, eager to show the great gifts of government God had
given him, a woman who would not let two jerks fall prey into their
hands.

But not without love of neighbor, he felt sorry for Benin, and having
said this that the Moor the waiting in the street, wanted to see him
and judge him by his own eyes.

That the trace of the poor African seemed pitiful, met in the gesture he made in the look
on his face, and accent said: "I already knew him to this, to see
him on the street asking the Duke of Alba.

He's a good point, and very much in love.

Right, Mr. Almudena, who likes you girls?

- Like my B'nina, Amri ...

- Ajaj ... Benina poor, he has not been granted poor fly! If you do this for charity, honest
I say you're a saint.

- The poor guy is sick and can not use. "

And as the Moor, seized with very violent itching in the arms and chest, claws do your fingers
to scrape win, edging closer to look at her arms, which had stripped from the sleeve. "What
has this man - said to fear - is leprosy ... Jesus, what Leprosy
Benina sign!

I have seen another case, a poor, del Moro well, begging him, Oran him calling at Puerta Cerrada,
next to the workshop of my stepfather. And it got so lost, not Christian had approached him, and
neither will the Saints Hospital wanted to receive ...

"Chop, chop mocha - Almudena was all he said, turning the nail from
the shoulder to hand, as would a comb through the tangle.

Concealing his disgust, not to hurt the unhappy pair, Juliana said Nina: "Well not you have fallen
ill concern with this guy! Look at that scab sticks. Good are you going put, yes ma'am, good,
nice and cheap ... Or are you more stupid than to cook the butter,
or do not know what it is you.

"

With Nina looks no more expressed their pity the poor blind man, his
decision not to leave him and compliance with all the calamities that
God would send. And in this, Antonio Zapata who returned home, saw
his wife in the group, came up to her hurriedly, and aware of what
speaking, Benina advised to carry the Moor to the query of skin diseases
San Juan de Dios.

"More consideration will have - said Juliana - send to their land.

- Lueje, Lueje - said Almudena -. Dir Hierusalaim us.

- Not bad. "From Madrid to Jerusalem, or the family of Uncle Maroma
...'.

Well, well. In other thing, my little lady, do not hit and listen. I could not do your assignments,
because ... I tell you they do not hit.

- Because you've gone to the pool, rogue ... Up, up, and adjust accounts.

- Do not climb because I have to go back to the cars of pathos.

- What do you say, you rascal?

- Not big go cart for less than forty real, and as you sent me from passing thirty ...

- Will I have to see. These men do not serve more than a hindrance, do you, Nina?

- Truth. What is it? Mrs. Will move?

- Yes, women, but may not be until tomorrow, because this silly husband God has given me, out before
the eight to take the house and alert the car, and you see what time you pick up here, with
all that rennet, without having done anything.

- Pretty've run, girl: At nine I went home mom with the contract for signature. You see if we
won time. But you know I've lost Frasquito Ponte, He has given us a tremendous s boring? As
we had to take him home and I Polidura with the greatest job. God, how is the man, and why mess on its
head from the thud of yesterday! ".

Benin and Juliana also interested in good or bad fortune of the son of Algeciras, heard attentive Antonio
told them what the consequences of the fall funestísimas Rider Pardo on the road. When I saw
on the ground, fired by jaco, everyone thought that at that critical moment he had finished the
poor knight's mortal existence. But lift, Frasquito recovered, as he revives the movement
and speech, and ensuring have not been hit in the head, which was
the most sensitive, and felt in different parts the skull, he said,
'No, no, gentlemen, touch Me and not find the slightest bump. " Arms
and legs, if at first seemed to have come out with fortune, for surely
broken bone I had to jump-start some horribly lame left leg, indeed,
without doubt, the violent collision with the ground. But the strangest
thing was that, as he stood, broke into a gibberish, rash, red face
like a tomato, vibrant and breath language. They took him to his home
by car, believing that a complete rest will restore; frotáronle entire
body with arnica, I went to bed, they were ... But damn, as they after
the patron said he had no sooner left alone, dressed himself hastily,
and fell to street was home to Boto, and he stayed there until very
late getting to everyone, and leading to the peaceful insolence intemperate
parishioners. As this was contrary Frasquito the placid nature, and
his shyness and good education, which surely had disturbance severe
brain because of the bump. It is not known where he spent the rest
of the night: it is believed that was stirring in the streets of Midi
Grande and Chica. The fact is that shortly after arriving Polidura
Antonio and home of Dona Francisca, took Frasquito very excited, his
face flushed, bright eyes, and with great surprise and dismay of the
ladies, began to drop in his mouth, a little crooked, outrageous nonsense.
Combining skill with the force, could get there and get back home,
where they left him, ordering the employer to hold if could, and to
do for feeding