 The mummy in the presidensia. Sit there, mom, or not eat.

And the driving of an arm, caressing it with extreme love, as if to
indemnify years of wandering children who had been his torment.

When night came the National hanging out at home the teacher, as if this visit was a duty of
subordination, the gathering seemed animated. Gallardo, wearing rich sheepskin, as a master
of the field, bareheaded and smoothed queue up to about forehead,
received her mocking banderillero with kindness.

What the fans were saying? What lies circulated?

... How going 'why' of the republic?

- Doodle, give Sebastian a glass of wine.

But the National Sebastian repelled the gift. None of wine he drank. Wine was the culprit the
backwardness of the laboring classes. And all the chat, on hearing this, broke into laughter,
as if said something hilarious I was expecting. Banderillero began to drop from his.

The only one who remained silent, with hostile eyes, was a saddler. Hated National seeing him
as an enemy. Also it was prolific in his fidelity good man, and a swarm of urchins moving in
the tavern around the skirts of the mother. The two smaller had been sponsored by Gallardo and
his wife, joining the sword and banderillero with kinship compadres.
Hypocrite!

Brought home every Sunday to the two godchildren their best baby clothes, to hand besasen the
sponsors, and the pale saddler with indignation each time that the children received a gift of National.
They came to rob own.

Maybe even dreamed of banderillero with that part of the fortune of the sword could reach the
hands of the godchildren. Thief! A man who was not family! ...

When not welcomed with the words of National hostile silence and looks of hatred, trying to Zaher,
once favored the execution of all the nonsense that spread between the people and are a danger
to good people.

El Nacional was ten years older than his master. When it began to deal in capeas, he was already
in gangs banderillero poster and had come from America, after killing bulls in the Plaza de
Lima. Earlier in his career enjoyed a certain popularity, being young and agile. He also had appeared
for a few days as "the torero of the future" and the fans in Seville,
eyes on him, expected to overshadow the slaughter of other lands.

But this was short lived. Returning from his trip to the prestige of nebulae and remote exploits, rushed
the crowd in the Plaza de Toros de Sevilla to kill him. Thousands of people were no input.
But in this time of definitive evidence "lacked heart" as they called the fans. Nailed the flags
with aplomb, as a hard worker and serious does his duty, but to go for the kill, the survival
instinct, stronger than his will, kept him far ahead of the bull, without using the advantages
of his stature and his strong arm.

El Nacional resigned to the highest glory of bullfighting. Banderillero nothing else. Was resigned
to be a journeyman of his art, serving younger ones, to earn a poor
salary pawn to keep the family nest egg and make it possible to establish
a small industry.

His kindness and honest customs were proverbial among the people of queue. The woman he loved his killer,
seeing in him a kind of guardian angel for fidelity of her husband. When in summer, Gallardo,
with all his people, went to a cabaret in any provincial capital,
desirous of revelry and joy after dispatching bulls several runs,
the National remained silent and serious among singers of vaporous
gown face painted as a father of desert in the middle of the courtesans
of Alexandria. 

Not shocked, but was sad thinking about his wife
and the children who were waiting for him in Seville. All defects
and corruptions of the world were for him due to lack of instruction.
Surely, these poor women could not read or write