 

Quatí barely knew, the principal chief of all, the most fervent in the desire to receive holy baptism,
when leaving himself with grief, went around to all his subjects to avenge the deaths of the
Padres.

Offenders, seeing that they could not escape the fury of that brave chief, called on their
behalf to the Guaycurús, but even so the Quatí undertook with great value, and to the first attack
killed more than a few of the accomplices, the other, unable to resist, they entered fleeing
through the woods, and for a long time dared not leave them, for which all days this chief was
in the least ill to face with such an enormous crime, telling them to do what purpose life
had been taken to the Fathers that made them so good and so fond
of? they could go to the Mamalucos and would see if they were treated
better.

Let the traitors in their flight altar ornaments and other sacred ornaments, which, although
desecrated and shattered the Quatí collected and restored, it still
maintained its great desire to be Christian, but he finally vanished
for having some of their chiefs nation bordering the Assumption, broken
the peace with the Spanish.

It has been well particular providence God has had to give notice of all these events.

There was already a little less than two years was not known to these two Apostolic operators,
so we were on so afflicted and bereaved.

Some believe that, looking unable to return to Asuncion, had been hospitalized for the country to
preach in it the holy law of God, and was the basis for this lawsuit
insatiable zeal on both sides, then to wherever they would give them
opportunity to preach, were even at the cost large sweat and work,
others ran better than had been killed by the Payaguá, or at least
made slaves.

And I've seen written letter of the Assumption of April 30, 1717, written after death penalty
that was given to the Payaguá said, was said by the way he ran in
that city who had died only P. Arce, and P. Blende I had the same
Payaguá captive with some of his Indians, and that the Spanish rider
had sold to the Guaycurús.

God wanted to order some comfort from news of the arrival of these two very happy Missionaries the
position of bliss, a glorious death.

Were thus eyewitnesses of what happened, four Christians, companions
of P. Arce, whose names were: Joseph Mazzabis, Poquibiqui Jacinto,
Pablo and Pedro Melchor Tubal Guarayo, who having been slaves of the
Payaguá, were rescued by the Padres in the first trip, and this had
brought him the Father of that language interpreters.

These slaves were now the second time Payaguá.

The four, then, with India, Asion nation, also a slave, for the month of January 718, is left between
the Payaguá, under the pretext of going to find some wild fruits
motaquís calls, and leaving them neglected, seized were two canoes
and set sail, vogando with the force that gave them the desire for
freedom and the fear of being made of their cruelísimos owners.

Thing sailed two hundred leagues to the Mamore gap, where the boats left, they entered by the
dense forests to avoid falling into the hands of the Guaycurús, and
take the road to the town of San Rafael de los Chiquitos, consumed
with work and hunger, came with great difficulty that people, and
gave the news I have mentioned here.

It is time to give some account of these two zealous missionaries to illustrate this story the
relationship of his life and virtues, it will be quite concise.

Father born Joseph de Arce to November 9, 1651 year on the island of La Palma, a the Canaries.

His parents, no less illustrious blood in piety, he grew up in the fear of Devotion to God and Queen
of Angels, and discovering in it a kind that promised large hopes to overtake his family, tender
age he was sent to the University of Salamanca, where the culture
of science is capable hiciese get some dignity ecclesiastical or secular,
as the state chose.

But God Our Lord uses many times human interests, to achieve better to his eternal providence,
used the first leg of our Joseph to those universities to call the company and then the Apostolate
in the Indies.

Was making all efforts in the study of literature, always with an eye to what the world promises
and then does not comply, but as more available than others will,
had pinned their hopes in deciduous and perishable things, had little
to do in his disappointment, considering it the innumerable filled
with hope as he had joined the world's flags and had not reached more
award, after their toil and hardship, to be faded and mocked his attempts,
he was persuaded that the same would happen to him, if you take ill-advised
his party, but that if he offered his sweat and work to God in the
way of virtue achieved, by prize glory.

These and other insights have little understanding not lit, and lit the will in love to the things
of the soul, God and eternity, until the interior styling the Holy Spirit's grace in their hearts
this disappointment, we strongly bartered another man; and so on, determined to be religious, he
felt called to the company effectively, and as was already gritty century of things easily due
to the inspiration of heaven, and received the Company in the same
College of Salamanca, at the July 3, 1669, then moved to have his
novitiate in Villagarcía.

Just our novice set foot in this holy house, where, as chosen tree, transplanted flows beside the
waters of grace, began to bear fruit of all virtues.

He was then eighteen years of age, and was naturally ardent and lively,
but subjected and yielded both the vividness from the first months
of novitiate, which left no passion not domase, a rule that did not
observe, not practice virtue, adjusting very well indeed the model
and level of our constitutions.

So holy met his novitiate, he passed to higher studies, where the gathering fervor and devotion to
science, conceived burning desire to devote himself to God more closely
Missions in India and follow more closely the footsteps of San Francisco
glorious Apostle Xavier.

To fulfill their wishes timely opportunity offered to Europe's coming
of P. Christopher Altamirano, Attorney General of the Province of
Paraguay, whose charge was subjects take the Company to retain and
expand the faith in those provinces dilated.

First consult the business in prayer to God and to his great San Francisco
lawyer Xavier, and then expressed their desire to superiors, asking
them to give him a lot of body leave to go to Paraguay.

Our Father John Paul Oliva general, knowing the holy and laudable custom of the provinces Spain,
in Europe not to retain God chooses subjects for his holy preachers name in the New World, sent
the license to the discretion of P. Provincial of the Province of Castile, who at the time
it was Fr Pedro Jeronimo de Cordoba, who seems to be Arce younger brother who could expect much
fruit in the conversion of the Indians by their way of life set and in the spirit of the Company,
without ever dejection a point in the race for perfection, even in
the most dangerous time of the studies, we then quickly allocated
to the province.

He arrived at Buenos Aires in 1674, having carried across great example navigation and building,
and such was the size that gave their religion in that port, I heard a subject, which is now
the Company and then was secular, not tired of looking at him when came out of school and went
after him unfinished admire his silence, meditation and exterior
composure and modest joy on his face expressed the spirit of the Lord
that his heart was full.

What was then in India, I do not think I will be able to declare better or truer test and convincingly
that the universal sense of all this province, which accommodated those Sanctus copiossisime words,
with which St. Augustine epilogue the virtues of his great friend St. Paul, founded this concept
so high in the great zeal, profound humility, ardientísima charity, apostolic works, contempt
of himself and of his life and other heroic virtues that invariably
retained in the long space of forty-one or forty-two years spent here
in the service of God and the good of souls.

Not repeat here their toils in the provinces of Chiriguaná of ??Chiquitos and Guarani and the discovery
of the Paraguay River, the conversions made there, the churches he founded, repeated times
was in danger of losing his life, work with excellence in learning Barbarians many different
languages, Chiquito, Quechua, Guaraní, and Payaguá Chiriguaná, their ongoing tasks for the benefit
of souls and even the bodies of the infidels and neophytes the great
and grievous persecution he suffered because of this, until they came
to be mortified and publicly reprimanded as a man without prudence,
without trial.

I'll just say something about his other virtues, and first offered to the view that after admirable
harmony which had in the Father Joseph de Arce uses of Martha and
Mary, that is, the active and contemplative life, outdoor occupations
of service and support neighbors, and interior and close union with
God.

Missionaries continuously cry and seeing a lot of grief after employee
all day for the benefit of the neophytes, without the slightest break,
then into the night can only be collected alone with God for a while.

Plus P. Arce, after their regular jobs to help the neighbors, then that put before God in prayer,
I was so into each other, that everything was not God let him away from you, and trustworthy
person I know, eye-witness, who saw him pray before Blessed Sacrament, who watched the devout
Father composure, and this immobility body and senses, which pricked him and helped not a little
more devotion to meet to this holy exercise, rather than his praying and being in the presence
of God, not confined to hours certain, but never lost sight of that infinite good, so that was
all what he did, all in one for whom he did not just working for
love but love in the same act, and anyone who noticed he clearly knew
his eyes.

Therefore, not knowing him all over the world, beauty worthy of love, or kindness to which aficionados
even the smallest of his desires, but by looking at only God, who was always for him all nice
of her beauty and all desirable for her kindness, she forgot and lost sight of all things of
the earth and even to himself, chairs, pulpits, and other honorary office of which may tend to
estimate the least disappointed in the small world of religion, were for the P. Arce unbearable
burdens, and so, as we saw, did not stop to mourn and to make request
to the superiors, until he was discharged from the occupation to read
the Faculties higher in the Royal University of Cordoba.

And to make fuller concept of what is despised himself, refer only
case, singularly worthy of eternal memory be taken, and I've known
subject of the Company who were eyewitnesses.

Had outstripped talent pulpit Father Joseph, and therefore preached he was charged about the
virtues of his great apostle St. Francis Xavier to a brilliant and numerous audience in the
city of Cordoba, on the day of the saint's feast, here's keeper precept; but the Father, to
whom it was no small honor that role, wanted to turn it all in own benefit, so up to the pulpit,
he turned to the Hon. Bishop of Tucuman, D. Fr Nicolás de Ulloa, the illustrious Order of St. Augustine,
and apologizing to protest I had no ability to write or say anything good, he said, with periods
malformed and worse these, some points of Christian doctrine, and did not stop here his own dejection
and contempt for what the Father came to his will, someone else eventually, but he thought,
with scorn, because some young man, his disciple in philosophy, coming just days after public theater
clown suit, represented the live action that same pulpit, glossing
so you moved to, laugh to the bystanders, with no little disgrace
and contempt of P. Arce.

It was so far from feeling of outrage that his disciple, as before,
very glad, gave him many hugs and thanks to his insolent, of which
he little pricked, and was in perpetual forward eulogist of its virtues.

The

dress she wore was so vile and despicable, and so poor, patched cassock, that miserable beggar
could not dress more poorly. Their food, so sparse and poorly cooked, that even the barbarians,
who live like wild beasts in the forests, the stand could have been so long time, and passed
through the hands of many a pumpkin, which served as pot, bowl and glass, usually happened
with corn, no other dressing than that of yours has this bland delicacy, cooked in water, and
when his illness forced him, added a meat scraps badly cooked.

Conclude the Apostolic praise of this man with an act that by chance, the more worthy of know
and he just enough to tell between the heroes of this province, for whose intelligence I must take the
relationship further.

He had broken, do not know what causes the ancient peace and friendship among the Guarani Indians
and nation of the manure, the spirits of these were so exasperated that they had sworn not
to kept alive to any Guaraní who fell into his hands, and stopped here this damage enmity, but also
the total threatened ruin and destruction of Christianity floridísima Uruguay and Paraná, because
the manure did not allow Christians, for maintenance of their people, who do not use other
foods than meat, should pass the Uruguay to make provision cows, which used to collect twenty
or thirty thousand a year in the vast campaigns are the banks of the Atlantic Ocean, for which
the hunger and famine afflicting much to the people Reductions.

Our Missionaries had used many means to shut off all eficacísimos malevolence and hatred between
the two nations and reduce them to their old friendship, but it was all in vain.

Wanted, first, test whether they could turn to the holy faith to the manure, but they stubbornly refused,
by giving an answer the same reason because they were perdidísimos Jaros idolaters, to wit, that
the God of the Christians knew so much, that it was not anything
hidden, and because it was huge everywhere in looking at what they
do, they did not want have a God who had so much science and so open
your eyes, that in its forests and caves they lived with more peace
and freedom without having a receiver or ongoing court actions.

Not taking advantage of this medium, it was another case that only seemed more concerned to attempt
and went to buy the friendship and goodwill of the nobility Guanoá
some things present common between us, but between them very appreciated.

But not even thus could reduce their obstinacy to treaty of peace and harmony.

Meanwhile famine grew, people were crying and could be fear on the basis that despair plague or
destroy this illustrious church. Seeing this, the P. Arce, offered to go in person to speak
to the principal chiefs of the manure and risk his life misery to
rescue those souls and bodies of many thousands of Christians and
thrown to the fury of the storm, that by his death alone entirely
serene.

And in reality he had indeed lost his life, for the obvious signs
of I hate that we had the manure, for which our own, by giving hugs
to the past farewell, he cried as if it were certain to die.

He, with a serenity of face impassive, was on his way, asking God to accept sacrifice his life
in placación and peace, or in the manner most pleasing to His Majesty
and it was necessary to have such work, to those who gave up on his
journey to the missions of the Chiquitos.

Barbarians admired the generosity and greatness of his mind, or whether by virtue of they also
made great esteem, or for the skill and efficiency of their agencies, adjusted finally so difficult
business, the old and established peace between them and mutual remedied the need and hunger
for many people. This incomparable man died in the month of December , 1715, aged nearly seventy-five,
forty-six of religion and twenty-nine profession of four votes he
had made to the August 15, 1686.

Rector was a three-year the College of Tarija, which greatly promoted
religious observance and our ministries.

Let us stop to this wonderful man and move on to give some news of his apostolic partner.

Born, then, P. Bartholomew Blender August 24, 1675 in the city of Bruxas, one of the main county
of Flanders, of noble parents.

It was endowed with great ingenuity, and to do, began to study at
home lyrics something human and philosophy, but to learn God's call
in the Society of Jesus Gospel wisdom, did not have much work to obey,
because even in the midst of danger the world, lived with a lot of
religion and piety.

Having lived in the province of Flanders for nearly fifteen years, our Father reached general Michelangelo
Tamburini license to go to the Indies, which had long desired.

Flanders went to Madrid, where the Imperial College soon spread the smell of his holiness and
virtue, and all universally formed a unique concept that was apostolic man and gifted with those
talents that are needed for the missions of the Indies, for which,
long after his departure, there lasted fresh memory of his virtues.

Madrid went to Cadiz, where he embarked to March 2, 1710 in the ships leaving for the port of
Buenos Aires in the company of other eighty-nine Jesuits from many nations, but all the same spirit
that led from Europe to America to the fatigues and hardships of the laborious missions of Paraguay
and Chile.

While the next day sailed from strength to strength, rose a thick fog, and covered it was approached
by three Dutch vessels, which with a great din and noise of battle were arrested, artillery firing
a shot and was on the point of having a bloody battle on both sides, defending their assets
each and the high expectations that had been board, and others, hoping to get rich with a large
spoil, but as the Spanish ships to carry their registration, do not
follow the common measure of weight in proportion to the ship must
be loaded, but put more genres than you can fit, adding to that the
thick amount of provisions for six or seven months, there is born
to go so deep in water, only carry out what needs to stay in it, leaving
more than useless artillery to fight, to go into the water swaths.

For this reason, the captain wisely judging that it was just as well give up that fight, because had surrendered
hope that the protection of the Queen of England, who had passport, they return most of their possessions,
they threw flags, and even if they contradicted the sailors and passengers
shouting, protesting that they put clear danger to their persons and
flow, surrendered completely.

It is not easy to say what the hubbub and furor winners entered in the ships, which stripped
to the officers and passengers were treated to a very strange and cruel, recording breasts even
at the same captains with subtle instruments of iron to see if by chance had hidden within a
few pieces of gold or other precious thing.

What seemed so bad, even Senators and judges to the Netherlands, who had called the Dutch
masters to Amsterdam to give account of himself, deposed and deprived them of their offices.

Ours,
then, to whom the Company's cassock was worthy of worse treatment the trial of heretics, were badly
mistreated them, taking away all his clothes and others, and throwing
them in the worst and most inconvenient location of the ships, with
only the maintenance need not to die.

Meanwhile the victors feasted feasting and very festive with the provision that had found in
the ships, but at the expense of the conquered all, because he borrowed from the wine and brew
they were doing out so beside himself that he went running along
herds everywhere, fore and aft, making for fun and pleasure with taunts
deride them all insulting, with ridiculous grimaces, and treating
them so infamously, as if they were a vile mob of Turks.

Also, our maintained largely at his own expense or most of this event because, as making use of
them registered yet most secret breasts, and would be in the place of Cilician jewelry, chains
and disciplines, riding in anger at being deceived, they shook stoutly with them, sometimes,
as if using them for mercy to see them pale and consumed in many jobs, they offered a great vessels
filled with liquor their own, and if out of modesty or otherwise
refused reached the lips, forcing them to it with the gun in his hand.

In so many hard sufferings, they lasted from March 26 until April 6 was the P. Blende comfort
and relief of all, and his kindness and courtesy will be won the
Dutch captain, as he could achieve some relief for their brothers
until they gave Lisbon background Lazarus Sunday afternoon.

In that city he had come to fame for what happened had already prejudiced the distinguished San
Antonio College and the Novitiate some boats that went out to meet us, and with affection and love
that is imaginable, they sought redress of past work, and for all
time stopped there used to them all the subtleties of love that are
so typical in this observant and ancient province of Portugal.

Father could not Bartolomé de Blende enjoy these charity shows, because he repeated instances
of the illustrious Mr. D. Pedro Levanto, Archbishop of Lima, Lisbon whom no The Dutch wanted
to leave by a person of such distinction, it was necessary ordered Superiors were accompanying his
Lordship to Holland, for which, disguised in secular costume dress Jesuit because he was not
allowed to go the Dutch passed to Amsterdam not without known advantage
of many of them Dutch, whom Catholics hidden in secrets confessed
and urged to remain constant and steadfast in the faith.

Since, finely released prelate returned with him to Seville, where to August 15 1711, made profession
of four votes.

From this it started again without wanting to Cadiz receive any of
the present and delicious the illustrious Mr. Levanto offered in acknowledgment
of how much he had cooperated with the Ministers of the Republic of
Holland to his Lordship was restored to his freedom.

Admitted only a few booklets of devotion, useful to introduce, even
people of little or no consciousness, feelings of Christian piety,
and to increase the esteem and reverence of Queen of the Angels, who
was very devoted.

Made himself sailed to December 27 the same year of 711