 Know well thy soul, and to me Endangered
go there. Save me! Take me with you! ...

As he stood before him, was enough to raise their hands to put them
on his shoulders, starting the beginning of a hug.

Ferragut remained insensible to the touch. His immobility repelled these appeals. Freya had lot
of running around the world through outrageous adventures, and know
books on their own effort, no need to complicate their tangled again.

The story that had just report was not for him but a tissue of deceit.

- All wrong! - Said dully -.

I do not believe, do not believe ever ... Each time we meet I tell a new story ... Who are
you? When you say the truth, the whole truth of a time?

... Liar!

She, insensible to the insults, speaking of his future remained painfully, as if saw surrounded
by mysterious dangers.

- Where to go if you leave me? ... If I stay in Spain, continued under the domination of doctor.
I can not return to the Empires where I spent my life, all roads are closed and those lands reborn
my slavery ... I can not go to France or England, I have fear of my past. Any of my previous achievements
would be enough to shoot me: no deserve less ... In addition, it
inspires me fear the vengeance of mine.

I know the procedures the 'service' when you need to get rid of an agent who is uncomfortable
in enemy territory.

He himself complaint: voluntarily committed a blunder, makes some
documents are lost, sends a compromising letter with false address,
to fall into the hands of the authorities the country.

What if you do not I help? ... Where can I elite group? ...

Ulysses was decided to reply, pity on his despair. The world is big: I could go to live in a republic
of America.

She did not accept the advice. I had thought the same, but was afraid of the future uncertain.

-
I'm poor, I have little money to pay my trip ... The "service" pays well at first. Then, as we have insurance
because of our past, gives only enough to live with some relief. What am I going to, do in those
lands?

... Should I spend the rest of my life sold in exchange of bread? ... I do not want: rather die!

The desperate assertion of poverty Ferragut smiled mockingly. He looked at the collar Pearl eternally
admirable pad lying on his chest, the thick emerald their ears, coldly brilliant crackled in
his hands. She guessed his thoughts, and the idea of ??selling these gems he produced a major
concern to the terrors that inspired him the future.

- You do not know what this means to me - he said -. It is my uniform, my shield, the pass I
can hold on in the world of my youth. Women who own the land we jewelry
need to continue on unimpeded.

Hotel managers humanize and smile at his brilliance. The possessor does not inspire confidence,
although late in the bill of the week ... Employees borders gallant display: no passport more powerful.
Haughty ladies soften its sparkle at the hour of tea halls where one does not know anyone ... What
I have suffered to get them! ... Arrostraría hunger before selling them. With them is one: can
a person does not have a coin in your pocket and go where they enter the richest, living as they ...

Not
accept the advice. It was as if a hungry soldier offered him their weapons in enemy territory in exchange
for bread. Once satisfied the need, would be prisoner would degraded, equaling the miserable
hours before receiving their shots.

Her face all the dangers and sufferings rather than shed the helmet and shield as symbols
of their superior stock.

The suit over a year, the booties fatigued underwear with tears poorly made, not saddened in difficult
times. The important thing was to have a hat fashion and keep the fur coat, collar of pearls, emeralds,
diamonds, whole armor honorable and glorious, in which he wanted to die.

His eyes seemed to take pity on the ignorance of the ocean, who dared to propose such absurd.

-
It is impossible, Ulises ... Take me with you. In the sea where I can live more safely. Submarines
I'm not afraid.

People imagine they are numerous and tight as paving stones, but
only a ship in a thousand get their attacks ... In addition, you fear
nothing: if our fate is to perish at sea, we would die together.

It was insinuating, seductive, moving his hands on his shoulders, pulling her neck with a passion
that amounted to an embrace. Her mouth spoke, approached the the ocean. Bow lips caress round
initiating a kiss.

- So bad you would live with Freya? ... Do not you remember because of our past? ... Is it
that now I am another?

Ulises remember, indeed, the past, and began to recognize that this
memory was too vivo.

They came to him as distant melodies and voluptuous half-forgotten, bursts of good-smelling meat,
arousing their sexual memory. The contact of the hidden curves, warm and firm, which is pressed
against your chest without losing the turgid hardness, evoked in
Ferragut imagination of a dizzying array of love scenes.

Chastity observed recent times on account of his painful worries
tormented him now as a punishment.

She, who was this revolution with cunning eyes, guessing its contractions face, winning smile,
pressing her face to his. I was sure of his power ... And reproduced Aquarium kiss, that kiss
that shook the back of the ocean, causing hesitation on her legs.

But when he handed over to the suction dominating abandonment, was
repelled, shot manotón by a brutal, like the punch that was thrown
onto the cushions to beginning of the interview.

Someone had come between the two, notwithstanding they were embraced
closely.

The captain, who began to lose consciousness of their actions, as well as a castaway, descending
and down through the layers to vibrant an unalloyed pleasure, suddenly
saw your face Stephen deceased, with glazed eyes fixed on him.

Beyond just saw a picture sad Vanish: Tape weeping as if her tears were the only ones that
could fall on the torn corpse of the child.

- Ah, no! ... No!

The same was stunned by her voice. It was a wounded beast roar, a howl of despair dry writhing
in torment.

Freya, staggering under the rough push, he again tried to approach it, link to back in his
arms, repeating his urgent kiss.

- My love! ... My love ...

Could not continue. The tremendous hand returned to repel it, but so violently, that came to
give head against the cushions of the couch.

Shook the door with a rude jerk that it opened its two sheets at once, making the latch lock.

The
woman, tenacious in their desires, got up quickly, regardless of
the pain of the fall.

Its lightness will only serve to see how they could escape after
picking mechanically Ferragut his hat.

- Ulises!

... Ulises! ...

Ulysses was in the street, while in the small hall had just wobble,
breaking then on the floor with loud grinding, various earthenware
that had hooked and displaced the fugitive in his blind exit.

Sitting in the front of the outdoor feel, revived in his memory hazards Freya he had announced.
Explored the street with a hostile glance ... "No!" His desire was found with the enemies of the woman
who spoke to vent the anger was against himself. I was embarrassed and furious at his temporary
weakness, which almost had resumed the old life.

In the succeeding days repeatedly agreed the band of refugees was due to the doctor. When found
in the Germanic-looking pedestrians streets, looked straight through the eyes of challenge.
Would any of them responsible for killing him?

... Then went ahead, repented of his provocative, sure they were merchants of South America,
apothecaries or employees of the Bank, undecided between returning to their homes across the
ocean or wait Barcelona triumph of their Emperor always immediate.

Finally, the captain finally laugh at the recommendations of Freya.

"Lying from you! ... Inventions for the interest and take her with me. Oh, liar! "

One morning, when he stepped on the deck of his steam, Tony approached
him with a mysterious air.

His face had one, pale ash.

When they were in the aft lounge, the second spoke softly, looking around him.

The previous night had dropped to the ground for the theater. All literary tastes Toni and aesthetic
emotions focused on the zarzuela. Men of talent had not have invented anything better. It was
pulling out the hum that animated his long stays on the bridge. In addition, there was the women's
chorus, brilliantly dressed, with legs free; the sopranos abundant
in meat and scantily clad, a parade of pink tights, voluptuous curves
that cheered the imagination of the sailor, not to forget the duties
of fidelity.

At one o'clock in the morning, when he returned to the vessel docks lonely, had tried assassinate
him. He thought he saw people who were hiding behind a pile of goods
to hear his steps.

After three blasts rang out, three revolver shots. A bullet whistled through one ear.

- And as I was unarmed, ran. Fortunately, the ship was close, almost
next to the bow.

I just had to take a few breaks to get me in on the steam iron ... And no more shots.

Ferragut was silent. He too was pale, but with surprise and anger.
Then ads were true Freya!

...

He would not pretend disbelief or displayed reckless and contemptuous
of danger when Toni continued talking.

- Ojo, Ulises!

... I have thought much about this event. The shots were not for me. What do I have enemies?
Who would want evil to a poor pilot who does not see any one? ... Beware! You may know where it comes
from this: you treat many people.

The captain guessed he thought of the adventures of Naples and shameful that proposition kept a secret,
relating all the night assault. But neither his voice nor his eyes justified such suspicions,
and Ferragut chose not take notice of what was happening.

- Does anyone know what happened?

Toni shrugged. "No ..." He had gotten into the steam, soothing to
the dog board, barking furiously.

The man had heard the shooting guard, imagining were from a bout of sailors. In addition, he's
only interested in what happens after Grilled linking the dock with
the ship.

- You have not given part to the authority?

...

The second was shocked to hear this question, with the pride of the Mediterranean, never remember
the authority in times of danger and only trust your defense to the
skill of your hand.

"Have you had anything by an informer ?...»

Intended to do what the men are men. Thereafter, go armed at all hours while he was in Barcelona.
Woe to him who throw it on him, if not hurt him! ... And winking one eye, showed his captain
what he called "the tool."

The pilot is repugnant to him guns, toys, crazy and noisy, problematic results. He loved the
blow in silence, the knife, extended his hand with an affection ancestral that seemed to evoke
the blink of the axes of approach used by their ancestors.

With loving gentleness drew a knife from his waist English acquired
at the time was Boats pattern: a bright sheet reproduced the faces
that stared, pointed stiletto sharp and razor sharp.

Maybe soon makes use of his "tool." Remembering some individuals in days before slowly walking
along the pier looking at the ship, watching them that were entering and out. If it sees them
again, he would throw out of steam to say two words.

- Do nothing
- ordered Ferragut -.

I'll take care of it.

All day he was worried by the news. Walking through Barcelona, ??provocative eyes looked few passersby
seemed to German. He joined the onslaught of a character owner indignation is struck in your
home. The three shots were for him, and he was a Spanish and the
Boches were afraid to attack in their own land.

What audacity! ...

Several times he took the right hand to the back of his pants, playing an extended package
and metallic.

Expected the evening to perform a certain idea which had been established between the eyebrows
like a nail painful. While not undertake would not be quiet.

The voice of good counsel protested, "Do not do crazy things, Ferragut, do not look for the enemy,
not provoke. Defend yourself from anything else. "

But his reckless arrogance that made him embark on ships destined for shipwreck and pushed him into
danger for the sake of beating, he shouted higher than prudence.

"In my country !...-- stated mentally -. Wanting to kill me when I'm on my land ... I will make
them see I am a Spanish ... "

He knew the port bar mentioned by Freya. Two of her crew had been given new reports. His parishioners
were poor Germans, who drank in abundance.

Someone paid for them, and on specific days to be allowed to invite
patterns of fishing boats and port homeless.

A gramophone sounded continuously launching high-pitched singing
that concurrent chanted loudly.

When news of the war received favorable to Empires Germanic, redoubled the songs and the glass
until midnight and the music box sour not rest a moment. On the walls
were portraits of William II and several his generals.

The bar owner, a German fat legs, square head, with hair hard brush and mustache hanging answered
to the nickname of Hindenburg.

Marine smiled at the thought of the possibility of putting them under your desk Hindenburg ...
I wanted to see this place, where they often had sounded his name.

In the evening, his steps led him to the bar, with an irresistible urge to be joking of all the
counsels of prudence.

The glass door resisted his nervous hand, perhaps because the latch driving too hard, and the
captain ended up kicking open at its lower part, made of wood.

Glass almost flew the momentum of this coup, brutal.

Superb post! ... Saw much smoke, pierced by three red stars electric lamps had just turned on,
and men who had their backs or in front of him around several tables. The Gramophone snuffle like
an old toothless.

Hindenburg appeared behind the counter, bare-chested, with sleeves rolled up on his arms and legs
bulky.

- I am the Captain Ulysses Ferragut.

The voice that said it had a power similar to the magic words of oriental tales, left on hold
the life of a whole city, being immobile people and objects in the
attitude that surprised the powerful spell.

There was a stunned silence. Those who were beginning to head back attracted by the noise the
door did not continue its motion which were kept his eyes front fixed on him that went: eyes
wide with surprise, as if they could not believe what they saw. The gramophone suddenly stopped. Hindenburg,
who was cleaning a glass, was with his hands still, without removing the napkin from the crystal
cavity.

Ferragut was to sit next to an empty table, his back against the wall. A servant Only the establishment,
came to find out what he wanted, Mr. He was an Andalusian small and lively, that his wanderings had
brought him to Barcelona.

Served with indifference to customers, without being interested in their words and hymns. "The
did not get into politics." Accustomed to the facilities people happy and feisty, she guessed
the man who comes to "build rage" and wanted to tame your smiling and obsequious attitude.

The sailor spoke loudly.

I knew at that greasy spoon appointed him frequently and were many who wanted to see him. Could
give them the message that Captain Ferragut was there, at his disposal.

- So be it - said the Andalusian.

And he went to the counter, bringing a little while a bottle and a glass.

In vain Ulysses was set on occupying the adjacent mesas.

Some stood still, presenting the back, others had their eyes down and spoke softly, with a
whisper of mystery.

Two or three of them crossed at last his eyes with the Captain. In the pupils had a brightness of
the rising anger. Dizzy's first surprise, seemed ready to rise, falling on the newcomer. But someone
who had his back seemed to dominate with his orders in whispers, and he obeyed the order, lowering
his eyes to follow an attitude inhibited.

Ulysses soon tired of this silence. Beginning to find something ridiculous
attitude of the tamer. I did not know who to contact in a place where
all shunned his looks and his touch. In the next table was a newspaper
with pictures, and seized him, turning their leaves. Was printed in
German, but he pretended to read with great interest.

He had laid
aside, freeing the hip on which rested the gun. His hand feigning
distraction, walked along to the opening of the pocket, ready to arm
themselves in case attack. Soon he was sorry for this position too
confident. Iban to fall on him, exploiting his reading. But pride
made him stand still, so that could not guess your concern.

Then
he laughed in a defiant, as if reading in something that caused Germanic
illustration their taunts. He still did not seem so, and raised his
eyes to look with curiosity aggressive portraits adorning the walls.

Then
he could realize the great transformation that had just taken place
in the bar. Almost Parishioners had marched silently during the reading.
There were only four Drunk, wet-eyed, who drank with relish, caring
only for content its vessels. Hindenburg, back to back a strong clientele,
the counter reading a newspaper night. Andalusia, sitting at the back,
smiled at the captain. "What a guy !...» Held inside a land that had
put to flight shouting drinkers and brutal that bothered him so much
other afternoons.

Ulises consulted his watch: half past seven. He
had already frightened to all those people who inspired Freya terror.
What was left to do there? ... Paid and left.

The night had closed.
Under the light beams passing electric trams and cars into the city.
Following the arcades of old buildings neighbors groups of workers
marched port of maritime facilities. Barcelona, ??dazzling glow, appealed
to the crowd. The dock, black and lonely, is peopled with dim little
lights on top of the masts.

Ferragut hesitated between going to dinner
at his home or at a restaurant on the Rambla. Then suspected that
some of the greasy spoon fugitives could be near him, ready to follow
him. Spread their looks in vain: he could not recognize anyone in
the groups that were waiting for the tram reading newspapers or talking.

Suddenly
experienced a desire to see Toni. Uncle Caragol you improvise something
to eat while on its second adventure of the bar. In addition, it seemed
a fitting end to his deed offer the enemy, if his followers, the favorable
opportunity to attack the desert springs. The demon of pride was blowing
in his ears: "So you will see that no afraid. "

And he went boldly
into the harbor, passing over railroad tracks, outlining the stores
long walls, getting through mountains of merchandise. First found
small groups went to the city, then couples, then single individuals,
the final one: absolute solitude.

The reflectors traced in large
roundels on purple ground. Beyond lay the darkness, cut silhouettes
of ebony, which sometimes were ships and other alleys bales, hills
of coal. The black water reflected the snakes red and green lights
ships. A prolonged transatlantic cargo operations in the glow of their
reflectors electrical, standing on the gloom with the animation of
a Venetian festival.

From time to time a man walking slowly entered
the circle of a hearth, shining the barrel of his rifle. Others were
watching as the heaps of downloads. Were port police and guards.

Captain
suddenly felt a notice from your instinct. We were ... He stopped
in the shade attached to a bunch of bales, and saw men advancing in
a different direction, passing quickly along the edge of the red stain
of a light bulb to avoid being under the rain light.

I was beyond
recognition, and in spite of this, he was sure they were the enemies
seen in the bar