 Fr Juan Moreno Güeto Athanasius and returned to the castle immediately. Nuno took
somewhat longer to return, as had before bringing a message to Montilla, following the orders
his wife and his last orders, respect and liaison with people and things from this mortal life,
the century and the land that sustains us. Nuno was Montilla, and delivered demure younger brother
secretly D. Alonso de Aguilar, a long letter, written by Dona Mencia, and said thus:

VII

"When I said goodbye a few days ago from the castle, back at
you and sending you free and making demands that recover, I had no
courage to say goodbye yet also of hope See You in this world, oh
my sweet young friend!

Was already taken and hidden in the center of my soul the firm resolve never to see you anymore,
but I did not tell so far. Now I'm telling you now that last time I will make my words come
to you, even from afar, God will forgive me if I am happy to remember my loss, not for weeping
and wailing sorry, but to delight and honor Me with their memory. All the austerity of my life
for twenty years, my first love, gently preserved in memory with religious zeal and pure as the
sacred fire smoldering in the ashes of ara, and my pride and respect due to my name that I have been
honest and chaste decorum midwife, all faded and died in my soul to see your face and hearing your
words, perhaps from the first time I hablastes. Do not think I obfuscate, which blinded me and
I did not understand from the moment the intensity and ugliness of my sin and the almost irresistible
impulse fouling that I wore. Appeared clear in my mind that I'd love inspired, abominable
and how did the great difference in our age, that to become more self on your wife or girlfriend,
to provide, in relation to you for spiritual way, the chaste mother nature clean.

"I, however, knew not resist. It was my passion so intense that not only useless, stupid and
vulgar I found the resistance. Even in the same delay, I saw some mean and rude appeared in my
mind as cold artifice and studied prudery of woman who longs to sell more faces its niceties
and enhance more than just the price and worth of favors delaying
the grant them.

No wonder then that, due and rendered me fall into your arms of course without defending, and I
give my heart and be all yours.

"Had I wanted to gloss over the slope before it had felt to you, imagining vivid portrait of
the man whom I had loved in my early youthful days, and who had wept long years after his death.
But I soon discarded this idea, considering you coward hypocrisy
with which my understanding, more subtle liar who was trying to mitigate
the powerful vicious attempt at my will.

No: I do not like D. Jaime, but a thousand times better than him. His image etched in my soul,
not faded and disappeared well did your image affixed to it, a seal and mark of slavery that makes
it yours forever.