 Was very
fond of reading aloud, through what medium did. Mariana was pleased hear a lot in reading.
So, on this side, the marriage was fine.

- Read it, man .... I think Pepe and Ramon not mind - it said.

Castro made a slight sign of acquiescence, Ramon was quick to express with gestures extremes
that would be a great pleasure ... he was very fond of beautiful
chapters etc. Few thanks!

Coming from the father of his beloved, would be able to listen carefully reading the table of
logarithms.

D. Julian put on his glasses and began to read, with a white ruff voice that was quiet for these
occasions, a chapter that described the suffering of a lost child on the streets of Paris.
Instantly began to arrasársele alterársele eyes and voice.

He concluded by anudársele in such a way that barely understand him. Ramon found himself needed
to take the file and continue reading to the end. Castro, in the presence of those ridiculous,
man hid his smile behind big top puffs of smoke.

Completed Chapter and discussed in terms most flattering to all present,
Mariana turned his eyes toward his work.

He noted that would be needed a piece of silk backing, as it was nearing completion. Ms Hope,
who reported this thought, was of the same opinion.

- Ramon - said
the first - do me the favor of pressing that button.

The councilman was quick to fulfill the mandate. After a moment the maiden the lady.

- You must go out and buy a yard of silk - it said.

The home, after learning the peculiarities of the commission, prepared
to leave to comply.

D. Julian, who had listened attentively, stopped her with a gesture.

-
Aguárdese a moment .... I'll see if by chance do I have what they
need.

And he went briskly from the room. It did not take three minutes to come back with an old umbrella
hands.

- See if you can serve this silk umbrella - said -.

I think it's the same color ....

Maldonado Castro and exchanged a meaningful glance.

Mariana took him blushing.

- Indeed, it is the same color ... but it is all chopped .... Does not work.

Esperancita pretending to be engrossed in their work, but his face
like a peony.

Only Ms Hope took the matter seriously and discussed it. Was finally discarded with distaste
the banker, who was muttering some unflattering statements about the order and economy women.

Ramon
could not suffer more punishment of Tantalus that make the experience of his friend condemned.
She kept looking toward the place where he chatted and Esperanza. Began to rise from his chair
with a pretext to stretch my legs a bit and gave a few rides. Was slowly coming to them, concluded
a halt in front.

- Hello, Hope .... How long have not seen her friend Pacita?

What excuse to stop so gross! He himself understood this, and blushed
as he said these words.

Castro gave him a withering look, but either did not see, or pretended
not seen.

Esperanza frowned and replied curtly that he did not remember to
accuracy.

This would be enough for anyone to be given by a warning. Ramon was not made. Tried before
extend the conversation with phrases absurd or pointless. Even had attempts at grasping a chair
and sit next to them, but was prevented by giving Castro, neglect,
a fierce and expressive in the calluses stomp him back in their agreement.

He continued, therefore, your ride melancholy and quickly sit down again with his future mother
and grandmother. Soon was engaged in a lively discussion with Calderon on whether the paving
of the streets had to be done by contract or by administration. Would have gladly given. His
interest was to do so, because in the end it was the man whose hand was his happiness or Unfortunately,
but that stubborn and mischievous temperament which nature disputón
endow him, drew him to continue, but he saw his father on and about
to get angry.

Fortunately for him, before he reached this point, appeared in the
room a servant.

- What, Remigio? - Asked the banker.

- Just get
a friend of Brown, the driver of the lords of Mudela, and he said
that Leandro the gentleman was a little sick ....

- Sure!

What had to happen to that boy! ... Not accustomed to such revelry. All life on the college or
attached to the skirts of his mother.

Suddenly you bring to this life busy .... What is it about?

Leandro was a nephew of D. Julian, the son of a sister who lived in
La Mancha.

There come to spend a season in Madrid and spent happily together
with other boys the same age.

For some field trip had asked his uncle's carriage.

This, by not to offend your sister who by reason of interest was bound to observe considerations
he had been granted, albeit with great pain in his heart.

- I think
it has hurt the sun and the food ....

- Well, indigestion .... That
will happen soon.

- I think you should go there, Julian - said Mariana.

-
If it becomes necessary, of course I would.

But now I see .... Say you, Remigio, can not move here? Have you stayed in bed?

- That's the case, sir - said the man twirling the cap and lowering eyes if afraid to give
a very serious news -.

The point is that one of the mares, the Primitive is foundered.

Calderón turned pale.

- But can not come?

- No, sir, is quite Malita, says the driver of
Mudela .... Sure! how those guys do not understand, have had enough
water ....

D. Julian rose prey of violent agitation, and without
a word left the room Remigio followed.

Ramon Castro and changed again a glance and a smile. Esperancita surprised them and blushed.

-
Dad takes to heart what these things!

- I could not take it, girl!
- Said Ms Hope irritated voice -.

A log that has cost fifteen thousand pesetas .... Well I say if it is a grace Leandrito!

And continued good time venting his fury, almost as big as his son.

Ramon Castro rose at last to leave.

Mariana, who had taken very philosophy unfortunately invited them
to eat.

- Stay you .... Gone are the time of ride.

- I can not -
said Castro -.

Today, as in his brother's house.

- Ah! indeed it's Saturday, I do not remember.

We will go (if I'm not worse) at ten when the triplet.

- Do you
eat every Saturday at Aunt Clementina? - He asked in a low Esperancita
inflected strange.

The dandy glanced at it.

- Almost everyone at home of his uncle Thomas.

- Aunt Clementina is very pretty and very friendly.

- This reputation has - said Castro a little uneasy now.

- Has many admirers. Are not you one of the enthusiasts?

- Who has told you?

- No, I suppose.

- Have you guessed well. His aunt is, in my opinion, one of the most beautiful and distinguished
ladies Madrid .... Well, until another time, Esperanza.

And he held out his hand with a dismissive air that struck the girl. The latter was manifested
despite calling Ramon, who was standing a bit away.

- And you, Ramon, why do not you stay?

Do you eat well at Aunt Clementina?

- No: I do not ....

- Well, you stay, man. And trying not to get bored.

- I get bored at your side! - Said the council, almost faint with pleasure.

- Nothing, nothing, it definitely is not it? Pepe him go because he has other commitments.

Ramon would say yes with all the fervor of his soul, but above the head the girl, Castro began to
make negative signs, with such force that the poor said muffled voice

- No ... I can not either ....

- Why, Ramon?

--... Because ... I have to do.

- Well I'm sorry.

The council was so moved that he could barely mutter a few words of thanks. Left of stay almost
dragged.

Once in the street, Pepe congratulated him warmly and told him strongly that this would work.
But he welcomed the congratulations with marked coldness. Persisted in silence to his house where his
friend and teacher left the full order head of grim foreboding and sadder than the night.

VII

# Eating and sitting at home Osorio. #

The day after having gone to the house of Raymond, Clementina was more embarrassed and regretful having
done that at the time downstairs.

Proud beings feel remorse for an action that in his opinion has humiliated them, as the righteous
when they have failed to humility. Inside confessed that he had given a false step. The serenity
and courtesy of the boy, while it rose in his eyes, irritated his pride. What comments would not
have made him and his sister after that ridiculous and untimely guest! When thinking it is
the color rose to her face.

Not to see or be seen from the viewpoint of Alcazar, stopped going
out on foot.

The young man keep his promise: he found no trace of him anywhere.

But without knowing what causes the image of it floated continually before their eyes, often
came to mind. Was it dislikes? Why resentment? Clementina could not in good faith affirming.
His former persecutor had nothing in the figure or in the treatment Doing so abhorrent. Would,
on the contrary, he had too favorably impressed his presence? Neither. I saw many young people
every day in society more perky and pleasant conversation. So, the surprise as much as irritated
found him in mind. It never ceased to protest inwardly against this involuntary inclination, and
angry with herself. After few days after the scene told an afternoon decidióse out on foot.
Failure to do so cowardice seemed to him, give honor to that little boy too. When passed near home
looked up and saw him as always veranda with a book in hand. Underthe instantly and seriously crossed
long and straight. But a few steps felt vague discomfort as if you are not satisfied with herself.
The truth is that not even say hello or have not expected the greeting of the young, had not been
well done after his frank explanations and kindness that she had
used to show the rich collection of butterflies and provide him finely.

Next

day he went by foot and realized the injustice of the previous sticking to peer sight in the
upper lookout. Raymond sent a greeting and a smile as friendly as innocent, the beautiful lady was
flattered. He could not hide the fact that this young man was singular sweetness eyes, which made
him very likeable, and your conversation, if not full of pleasantries, showed understanding
and firmness of spirit worship. These observations should make them in due time, but did not
for reasons that we ignore. From this day started out as before. When crossing in front of the
house Raymond's never failed to send her nap friendly to the lookout, from which he responded
with genuine warmth. And as were passing day, the greeting was becoming more expressive. Without
speaking a word seems to be established trust between them.

Clementina did not try to analyze the feeling he felt for the young Alcázar. Was little fond look inside.
I thought vaguely that was a charity showing courteous to him.

"Poor fellow - you said -. I adored his mother! And how happy she had being a child so good and
loving! "One evening, when you took over a month of these greetings, he asked Pepe Castro

- Hear: has stopped following you and that blond boy of yore?

Clementina felt a strange thrill: got slightly red without knowing herself why.

- Yes ... ago and at least a month since I've seen.

Why lie? Castro was so far from thinking that between that unknown tracker and his beloved mediate
any relationship, did not notice the blush. Then went to something else with indifference. But
for our lady, shaking and that that singular warmth in cheeks was a revelation vague in his
mind what befell. The first specific evidence of this revelation was that he left the house
of her lover, instead of going thought in it, reflected that too faithfully fulfilled Alcázar
not followed his word. The second was that to stop at a jewelry shop window and see a brilliant must-see
figure butterfly, it was said that some of those he had seen at her blonde friend were much more
beautiful and bright. The third was purchased to enter the house of Fe to buy some novels French.
It occurred to see so many books, her lover Pepe Castro had not read any of them, nor read
probably. Before, it was funny this ignorance was now ridiculous.

Days passed.

Mrs. Osorio, weary of the fashionable life, having exhausted all the emotions that features
a lady distinguished for her beauty and wealth, would it please extreme in that innocent greeting
almost every day changed the young man's viewpoint. One evening, having dropped the car in Retirement
walk a few laps, ran with Alcazar and his sister in a street tree. He led a salute very expressive.
Raymond responded with the same affectionate respect as always, but noted that Clementina she did so
with marked coldness. This worried her and put her in a bad mood all day, more than ever wanted
to confess that the cause of your discomfort and it was melancholy. Shortly little, due to
his irritable temperament and capricious, that he had affair died at birth, was occupying
his mind sprouting in him a wish.

The individual is Lady appetites were always violent, especially if were an obstacle, as such,
passengers too.

One morning, after saying goodbye to Raymond's hand closing and opening repeatedly with the grace peculiar
to the Spanish ladies, and after walking a short distance, for a
almost involuntary movement turned his head and raised her eyes again
to the lookout.

Raimundo was watching with some opera glasses. He got heavily red:
his pace overcome with shame.

Why should the fact that nonsense?

What would he think of the young Naturalist? At least, to be embodied in love with him. For
despite these ideas swarmed disturbed in his head as he walked quickly
to turn the corner and concealed from the looks of it, was not so
irritated against herself as usual.

I was ashamed, that's true, but then he could walk slowly invaded
sweet emotion his mind, he felt a pleasant tingling in the heart as
there was already a long time since not feel.

"If you go back to my days fanciulla! he said smiling. And he began to recreate considering
their own emotion happy with that return shocks of the innocent the first age. Going so absorbed
in thought, upon arriving at the Cibeles, instead to take the Calle
de Alcala to go home to Castro who was cited for that hour turned
around as if walking through that site.

When I said hesitantly stopped. At last he confessed that he had no great desire to attend the
event.

"I'm going to see mom - said, --. Poor days ago not spend some time
with me.

"And she set forth toward the ride Luchana. It was an excellent mood. A mechanical piano played by
Lucrecia toast nearby and stopped to listen, she is bored in the
hearing of the Real's most famous altos!

But music is a voice from heaven, and only well understood when the
sky has already penetrated a bit in our hearts.

On the down Recoletos Pinedo, that memorable character who lived with one foot in the aristocratic
world and another in the middle class clerks to actually belonged. He brought his side to a nice young
man who must be his daughter, but Clementina did not.

Pinedo was removed from the society he frequented, the same carefully concealed that Triboulet.
Osorio's wife had always treated this character with a bit of arrogance, which was not unusual
as we know it. But now the pleasant state of mind the expansive became flat for a few moments.
As directing a serious crossed Pinedo sombrerazo ceremoniously as usual, the lady stopped and approached
him with a smile on lips.

- My friend, you are a practical man, also takes this time of morning
breath clean air and take a sun bath.

Contrary to custom and nature, Pinedo was a little confused, perhaps
because he did not present his daughter grace this colorful lady.

Repúsose instantly, however, and responded bowing gallantly:

- And see if God gives me a few unpleasant trips like the one we've
had.

Clementina smiled benevolently.

- You must not take this flower even indirectly bringing his side a young so cute. Is your daughter?

-
Yes, ma'am .... Mrs. Osorio - he added, turning to the girl.

This flushed with pleasure at being called beautiful by that lady
who knew both sight and name.

It was a tall, slender, brown face, with tiny features well drawn
and sweet and happy little eyes.

- Well I had heard that you had
a very pretty girl, but I see that the fame has been short.

The girl blushed even more and could barely mutter thanks.

- Come on, Clementina, do not you think it will .... This lady, Pilar
- he added, turning it - is pleased to tell lies like others to say
nice bitter truths.

- I can see it is very nice - the girl said.

-
Pay no attention.

You're beautiful, is in sight.

- Oh, Lady! ...

- And tell me, father
tyrant, why do not you a little more fun? Is it well done you will
see in any theater, dances and meetings and has locked up this beautiful
girl? Or do you figure that we have more happy to see you that she?

The
poor Pinedo felt a shiver of pain he tried to hide. Clementina had
touched frivolously in the most sensitive part of your heart. His
salary will already know that not consented but to live modestly.
If I entered a society that was just not his to maintain employment,
which was their sole support and your daughter. This he knew nothing
yet life plan. Pinedo expected to marry a humble and hardworking man
and he did not know ever that the world we could not live and that
he despised at the bottom of the soul, although such time, by force
of habit, and could not live comfortably in another.

- It is still
very young .... Have fun time - said with a forced smile.

- Bah,
bah! you say you're a great selfish .... And how long has it been
since have you been in Valpardo house? - said the lady going to another
conversation.

- Well, on Monday. The countess asked me with much
interest you and complains that has abandoned.

- Poor Anita: It's
true!

On the homeowners and their gatherings, Pinedo and Clementina
began a conversation lively and inexhaustible. Pilar listened attentively
at first, but as they knew most from those characters ended by casting
her eye distracted by the surroundings, olds to the few passersby
who happened to pass that hour there.

- Father: - said taking advantage
of a moment's pause -. Here comes this young friend of yours that
keeps his mother and sisters.

Pinedo Clementine and again at the
same time they saw the head and Rafael Alcantara the famous skull
we have met in the Savage Club.

- What has a mother and her sisters!
- The lady exclaimed in amazement.

- Yes, a really good guy, my dad,
called Rafael Alcántara.

Looking back, more and more amazed at Pinedo,
he nodded quite expressive. Not knowing what that meant, but figuring
that his friend was interested in not be characterized as a Alcántara
as he deserved, Clementina was silent. The young savage, crossing
them made a friendly greeting between family.

Pinedo hand instantly
reached out to say goodbye.

- You know that today is Saturday - said
the lady -