 This is said to loosen any spring of action and that makes people weak and prone servitude,
while in countries where people have had to fight hard and overcome great obstacles to earn a
living, after the wins and lives, is more dignified and energetic, and less experienced in
any kind of yoke and clamp. They may eg assertion of India and Egypt, and is not to deny that
they are examples that have the force. Argue, also the cause of the backwardness of Ireland and
humiliation have been the abundance and cheapness of potatoes. Have more reason, in my view,
those who think so, that they attribute backwardness, stagnation, or rather the ground of sterility,
but I dare not to give the reason or some or other, and especially in the case of Spain. I
do not think that neither the climate nor the soil, or fertility, or the exuberance of nature
and its products are or have been among us as in India and in ancient Egypt, nor are could
never produce similar effects.

They say other thinkers, who think little, that all our evil comes from the bad governments. This
statement is unworthy of refutation. No country, not to be under the yoke of tyranny invincible,
has more government than they give and deserve. How much is strongest in Spain, more enlightened,
more discreet, and has ruled. Just be a man left note in every game that has not been minister.
If they are all unfit, strength is conjecture that Spain does not anymore.

No lack of people our backwardness attributed to any love to the welfare and luxury to we are
happy and satisfied to live badly, and not feeling the sting of desire for enjoyment, we chose
not to work. This reasoning is absurd for the falsity of the premise on which is based. All
men, and peculiarly the Spanish, except for some fancy, prefer eating foie gras and truffles to
eat turkey and scrambled chanfaina, rich dress and velvet drapes, to wear cloth, living in a palace,
to live in a hut, and going by car, go on foot. It is not an occult science to know that there
are cars, good cuisine and excellent dishes, fabrics silk, gold and precious stones, and many
other delightful objects, nor is it necessary to have a very soul lifted to covet. No one not
ambitions. If you desire, desire to be rich, wealth depended, Spain is one of the world's richest
nations.

It follows therefore that we do not know why poor Spain, unless we claim, and this I I lean,
who are poor quality opposite to that just mentioned: the love of luxury, extravagance, by disorder,
because we are very lavish indiscreetly and generous, and above all,
because we do not spend and spend without discretion and without splendor.