 

    First, governments conquerors force. Second, governments
    theological, religion. Third, governments traditional
    caste. Fourth, historical governments; inheritance.
    Fifth, government social statistics.
    

Pitt in England, Sully and Colbert in France, Campomanes, Florida Blanca, Jovellanos and Florez
Estrada in our country are very worthy representatives of the new social history.

And this is the place to say that since late last century, have verified two movements in the
course of the world, there have been two new and far-reaching judgments the spirit of human
splendor, in that spirit that govern human life, although those annals were not written on paper;
earlier providential that spirit, law eternal of all time, eternal moral of all peoples and all
races, of which the historical book is just a sign, as the body is not nothing but a sign
of soul, that spirit which is of the form of literature, the press, as our mind is endowed with
eyes and forehead, for example, is an angel dressed in the rough.

I say it in that spirit that dominates man, which governs life, as if the endless reign in history,
two ideas are germinating deep and powerful, from the late past to the present day. These two
ideas are now lord of all forms, all the powers of all understandings, in short, is lord of all revolutions
who operate on reason in the world.

The two ideas of which I speak are the statistics and physiology,
statistics, explaining society, the man explaining physiology.

Who was to say to our former philosophers that physiology is a spiritualist in his own way!

See
carefully what happens in the world today, and perhaps find that the great struggle, the hard work
of our century is not merely the result of the natural antagonism that exists between traditional science
and the genius of history, this new spirit that has aroused in the soul of man more clearly, between
scholastic science on the one hand, and mathematics and the other physical. I mean, math, because
statistics is nothing that mathematics applied to social systems.

These two sciences, these two geometries, the internal and external, human and social: these two
most fabulous creations that fill the globe since the end of the last century mark today the
extent of the civilization of the peoples are the metal hand which measures the hours of world
that watch hidden and mysterious. Physiology and statistics that are currently were before
astronomy, theology and even magic.

Today is no civilized nation which knows more and more dispute, but
looks more and more shows.

One can almost say that today's physics, metaphysics is equivalent
to yesterday.

Time passed the word.

We are at the time of trial.

He spent time in the opinion.

We are
at the time of the experiment.

The time of pure reason, the theoretical
approach, the average time spent chivalric and a half fantastic, convinced
that science ruling the world and secretly, pawning words of honor