 His smile made Rosalia cloying effect of a fluid miasmatic seeping into
her and made her sick. And how impertinent nose girl, and how tiresome resobarse the skill of the
beard, as if to draw from it some substance! Man guapín, Rosalie was always indifferent, it seemed
then that a nice executioner presented with the rope and Hopa.

XVIII

And it did not come little urgency to this!

... What a point! By day 14 without fault required that. But before I could be delayed even a day
or an hour because his honor was committed Mompous's house, and if that Rosalie could not comply,
would be pointed to request Mr Money Francisco.

"By God ... do not say such nonsense. Jesus! ... You have gone crazy, "stammered the Rosalia
shaking and upset. "

He returned to take their accounts for the hundredth time. Not even selling things that did
not want to sell, could raise the sum. Had brought the lights up some numbers, but some of them
I had spent the good lady to buy trinkets to make up to four children. If Miracles would have returned
those six hundred actual anticipated him to pay the jeweler ...! Yes, it was necessary that
they be returned. They are strictly ask. If art Devil, or rather by a miracle of His Divine Majesty,
Candida had some money ...! Candida five dollars owed Rosalie lent to turn a ticket for a hundred
crowns. Even those lost were real return to the fold. Using energy purposes, went to the Marquise.
Accident fatal! The Marquise was at a religious function, that costs with other ladies. Ninth
was a dedicated patron saint I do not know why, with Manifesto Season, Rosary, Sermon, Ninth, Joys
of the Holy, Holy God and Reserve. Went beyond Rosalia eager to see her friend that afternoon.
The street was full of smart cars. In the church, made a blaze of gold, with velvet curtains
cheap, paper borders golden spotlight thousand, huge bouquets of cloth and a flag that resembled
theater third order, there was such competition, it was very difficult to penetrate it. Rosalie
did open way through the elegant crowd, but could not get to where she was the Marchioness which
had been perched in the sanctuary, near the priests. He spent long, long time, during Rosalia which
sermon he heard half pathetic, piping, a stew of cliches sauce theatrical gesture, he heard guttural
cantorrios more or less, and finally did so late, but so late that desperate to see the end of
the long role, had to leave without speaking Milagros. The poor lady was a martyr for the intolerable
methods of her husband, and not could delay his return home, because if the food was not on
the table when accurate, D. Francisco snorted and said nasty things, such as "Daughter, I
have died from weakness. Warns again, and eat alone. "

The night passed very uneasy, and the next day, June 13, around midnight,
when was preparing to visit his friend, here presented is, startled,
saying the expression on his face that something extraordinary was
happening, and it will say so, not only plastic neglect it, but the
confusion of voices and other spasmodic symptoms.

Rosalia part of that shock when she heard him say:

"Ah, friend of my soul, what conflict I am! If you do not me out for the good ...».

- Me? - Said Bringas away, then realized it was a money problem like
yours -.

Just you come in good time ... If you knew ... I was there.

- Home? ... I'll tell you what is going to be sorry for me, very sorry.

Tomorrow I have dinner dance, a feast of family, absolutely indispensable. I have given away
invitations ... You'll see what disappointment! Daughter, by God you give me a glass of water
because I can not speak. I have something here that my breath away ... (After swallowing a few
mouthfuls of water.) To avoid headaches, custom dinner at Bonelli. Yesterday I sent for him. I fix
it easily, but that, with all his impudence, I require that I have to pay three dinners that are
owed. I rather like, just imagine if I like you should ... Ah, believe you, my mariducho's fault
that we live this way ... But let what he said. What was I saying? You do not know how my head.
Ah! In view of the requirement Bonelli, sent this morning to Trouchín, the Arenal Street, which
never helped me nothing, I propose serve dinner tomorrow, I adjust, we agree, but the convicted
Would you believe?, With many courtesies and glibly tells me that if you do not pay in advance no
dinner ... This is already an insult. I've never been anything like it ... I'll tell you.
Is The cabinets are all about. Bonelli was undoubtedly to prevent and take Trouchín the story
that I had three dinners. It's a conspiracy against me, a plot ... While you look, they were
right, dear, "but I do fault I have? That man incapable, my maridillo ...! As you say it is
little. It is properly incalumniable ... Yesterday I had to pay a account of his tailor, who
had hung the bell on the front door ... That You see my situation, advise me, indicate to any output.

Rosalia,
with humble reasons, unable to compass told her friend that labyrinth, mostly when she was in
a similar predicament, and had one day to recover ... those hundred real ...

"Oh, yes, I remember it perfectly ... The day before I lay down on the purse to bring them you
... excuse me ... but before leaving home, was presented the collector of the Congregation with
the receipt of my share for the function of yesterday y. .. daughter
of my soul, I had no choice loosen ... By the way, yesterday I saw
you in church, and I felt that there was a to let me see some things.

Bonitísima function, but you do not see how mess? The cucurbit went to church with that loud of
snuff-colored dress that seems a habit of the order of stagnation. The home uniform. The San Salomó
was also very noisy. I've seen in my life more pouf, and although they say that the trend Fashion
is increase, I think the church calls for restraint on this. Nothing I mean the bearing studs
so great ... Why, and tail? ... As for me ... Have you looked at me right? You could not ask
for more simplicity ... But back to my suit, my dear. Did not advise me you something? Runs through
me, for I have become like a fool. If I meet here tomorrow the question, I'm lost ... Believe me
is to commit suicide. "

Out of curiosity, asked her friend Rosalia what I needed, and hearing him say that about nine
or rather ten thousand reais, put a grumpy face the tribulation which increased the already Milagros
so troubled.

"Ah, how little encouragement you give me ... And to make matters worse, yesterday afternoon I
was Eponine a scandal. If what happens to me does not happen to anyone ... I have put some
accounts ... of as loud ... For a creature of two thousand reales!,
And accoutrements of that gown, just accoutrements, 1500!

... Is to kill ...».

"Ten thousand reais! - Rosalie muttered looking down and counting the syllables like coins -.
With the fifth I would have enough. "

- Say you, D. Milagros Francisco ...-- said with animation, suggesting
that the blessed Bringas must have savings.

- Shut up you by God!

If you knew my husband said the other terrified ...-- -. These things take him crazy.

- And Candida? ...

- Holy Mother!

- It could happen ... I forgot to tell you, expending three or four little things, I can have
four thousand. I only need six.

- Impossible to all impossibility.

- That Milagros Torres ...-- muttered, my mouth was dry, the tongue stuck to her palate.

- Jesus! Torres!

... Rosalie said what nonsense !...-- watching stand up to it, as a fantastic appearance, the
image of his creditor -. I do not know if I told you that morning before of the twelve ...
Alas, it was crazy to buy that cape. You see ... What need I had these drownings?

- It's a bargain, daughter - said the Marchesa with that condescending tone and indulgent I knew
to take when it suited him -. If I leave my conflict, such that you futesa so hurry, run to me.
(Going over to her friend and squeezing his arm.) Don Francisco should be very parné saved unproductive
money, ounce for ounce, a style palette. What a big delay! That's the country as it is, because
capital flows, because all the cash is in the coffers, with no benefit to anyone, not to the possessor.
D. Francisco is among those who believe that money must be raised
cobwebs.

In this his significant your husband is like the locals rich.

Why do not you suggest something? I pay what I need ... means, with the interest due, and through
a formal obligation. I do not want ...!

- I doubt that Bringas ...

- (With heat.) Well, daughter has to have some influence you about
it ... Well, no more missing.

Are you stupid?

In saying, "man, for God's sake, that money gives us nothing." Y hard, hard, to learn. Or do not
have character ...? I thought that he consulted you all, and let himself be dominated by who
wins in intelligence and government ... Let's see, decide proposed. What this says: if we
fix the runs you piquillo my account. (Laughing) I consider as brokerage.

- I doubt that my husband ... Quia impossible ..!

But even impossible to believe what had happened to his ingenious friend, Rosalie pondered about
it. The same insuperable difficulty of the case drew its spirit, such as large problems captivate
and fascinate the above understandings. For a while nothing was heard in Gasparini louder than
the sighs of Hacking Pipaón and some of the Marchioness, which bronchi was not in the best
condition. As the two friends were alone in the house; Bringas had not returned from the office,
or school children, could speak freely their troubles without mystery of them. Telleria turned to
doze his proposal, strengthened with weighty reasons (oh, dead hands money is the cause of backwardness
of the nation!) and very cucas flattery: but he persisted in considering
Bringas proposal as one of the most difficult and rugged that could
be offered to the will human.

Only attack it was like climbing to the heights of heroism. In their own state followed the two when
he appeared Candida, very cheerful and plump. He came to see His Majesty and Dona Tula, and
later, had been in kitchens where the chef was determined to make entrecotes accept three
and a pair of partridges. "Things ...». Galland He was not tired of gifts, and not to offend, she said,
"Well, what I get on home."

"Then I'll send you a partridge and two entrecotes - Rosalie told whipping with his range -.
No, do not thank me ... If I do not have to prove.

A spare me meat ... Yesterday I shared between the neighbors a great steak I ordered to bring
the Plaza del Carmen, waiting have guests ... If you could see how
grateful these poor people ...!

My house is the Charity. The day I moved in that room have to run through there many tears. "

XIX

And then, taking their ideas to a very different field of charity, but also very interesting,
let's say that the letter is copied:

"Will I be able to tell you where and how and in what way could I put a little money an amount
I have left? ... That is a sure thing and a moderate intake ...».

The effect that these clauses were in the two friends was not as great
as was expected.

In Rosalie's face painted indifferent incredulity, it was resolved soon after in alarm, remembering
that the loan of five dollars requested a month earlier by Candida was had a preamble like
he had just heard. Milagros, without confidence in what the Grande García said, suspected that
there was some truth in it, or whatever it is, was justified to the
absurd as the desperate grasps at straws.

"But tell me, Candida ... "That money will you have?".

- My daughter, do not be a material ... I have not exactly in his pocket, but as if I had ...
One of these days you have to bring me Muñoz and Sones ...

- (With dismay.) One of these days ... now.

- And I usually think things over time ... Frankly, I like to have large sums at home, because
even in this neighborhood are palatial bad people ...

Without regard to projects of Candida rentier, Milagros watched the dress. At that time, the illustrious
widow began to decline noticeably in her bearing and the cleaning and repair of their clothes,
but had not arrived, nor much, sorry extreme neglect that we have known it later.

The children entered school, and Rosalie was to give them a snack.

"How cute is Isabelita!" - Said Milagros Candida, and some say, are directed towards Columns, left
alone with her bitter grief to my wife the Marchioness. This could hear the chirping of small,
the voice of the mother riñéndoles for his impatience and kisses smacking Candida gave them.
Soon Rosalia appeared in Gasparini, and Milagros was frowning and smiling at same time as when
we can not avoid the effects of one of these sets, comics might occur in the saddest times.

"You see how funny - Rosalie said her friend's ear -.

I've said in the dining room, with much secret, do you favor to overtake
the other five dollars.

"

Milagros smiled, as a patient who makes an effort to distract. He soon fell again in that deep
sadness that the flattened like a consumptive fever. Passed through his mind terrible launch of
the next night, the guests arriving, filling the halls, she dressed in her large pink satin
skirt, enormous pouf and lengthy tail, affecting joy and the problem still unresolved dinner.
Because in that night I could not get away with four trifles ... What a shame! ... Rosalie
saw her friend's eyes moistened by tears, and tried to comfort her.

"That dissolute without conscience, the futility ...»-- was the only thing that happened.

D. Francisco came in a little while, less lively and humorous than
it used to.

Miracles greeted in the most affectionate, complaining after his unhappy fate and the inexorable
God was with her, giving no more than penalties on penalties.

Bringas comforted her with reasons Christian, though he had some
grudge, and long-standing, not receiving it the Easter Gift to believe
warrant when he composed the ivory casket.

But very nearly my friend had come to forgiveness of the offense, but not forget, and if truth
be said, did not like much the intimacies of his wife with that lady,
even considering purely circumscribed with regard to branch of raiment.

"Do

not I have the pleasure of seeing you tomorrow at my house?" - Said
the marchioness.

D. Gallantly apologized Francisco, getting ready to put his hands
in his magnum opus.

Began to notice that the exits were bad night ... His head was not good. He attributed to nerves,
and was perhaps the effect of time, the cloudy, it seemed as if would
break off the sky in water, and never had to break.

That morning she had been badly in the office ... The boss thought it was all a thing of the stomach,
recommending a little pill of aloes at every meal. But he was so little friend to botiquerías, not
determined to take anything ... This unease was deprived of attending
the soirée of Miracles and be content to bring the relationship to
read newspapers.

"Yet, yet - said the dismal wretched with grief - I do not know, I
know ... Perhaps nothing ... Horrible things happen to me ... Do not
ask me.

It remains for me to myself.

Let me You do not say another word. My dear hubby is a gem ... but not for me tell me their
prowess ... Public are unfortunately too ... Do not laugh at me if I go mourn. Certain things
...».

Brinker did not know what to say. She took leave with a firm handshake and a warm Until tomorrow.

In
the living room and the hall the two friends are secreted for a while.

"I have prepared the ground - said Milagros in agony -. Now venture
you ... without fear.

...». Insurance

- Ah, my dear, you rave, you daydream.

Yes I know ...

- So ... means that there is no solution for me - murmured the lady hugging grieving your friend,
and pressed against it.

Rosalia conmovidísima not say anything.

"At least - stammered the Marquise - tell you what happens to me ... It may be that God touch
the heart. "

- I will tell you as soon as Candida. But if you see what little hope I have! ... Rather, Tongo
not any ... And I!, What about me, I look like a conflict? What invent me by tomorrow? ... And
now that I can think of, why do not you approach your sister?

- By God, daughter, do not know how you say that. My sister! ... I have saved so many times! I
abused so much! No way. We do not talk now. Some days ago we had a question. In Finally, before
I turn to my sister and go to His Majesty, I will lay at your feet ...

- Yes, yes, certainly ... is best.

- No, no, no ... I think by tomorrow I shall die of pain. Do you open the hood? I to pray for a
while and see if the Lord enlighten me ... Bye bye ... Back tomorrow,
see, see if there is any hope.

The downcast face either of Rosalia revealed that such hope was not
a dream of that arbitrista mind. Should be noted that the penalty
of our very high lady was Bringas motivated by their own difficulties,
not those of his dear friend. So confident Milagros skills the pilgrims,
saying to himself: "I do not know how it is, but she will leave step.
" When the Marquise gave the final handshake, Rosalie said:

"Now
you will tell me tomorrow how he has managed."

And when he went to
the niche Bringas to tell the case, he took the lead with these bitter
words

"What comes the Tellería entanglements? As usual, Apurito.
There are no dupes fien these people the value of two dimes. The cast
of fools is running out to get disappointments force. "

Rosalie's
mouth was a seal. Dared not utter a single word. Stuck in his mind,
as INRI, had a picture of Torres and the malevolent figures of the
sum that it was essential pay. Confess to your husband the embarrassment
under which he was to declare a series of attacks Against illegal
domestic economy, which was the second religion of Bringas. But if
God is not a solution in store, Eral forced to go through with this
painful confession remedy and its consequences, which must have been
very bad. No, Christ father, it was necessary to invent something,
find, stir half the world, delve into the darkest depths of the problem
to give key with him. Before selling the economist's secret shopping,
being such Once the main spell of dull and routine life, chose to
make the sacrifice of their galas, by pulling those pieces of your
heart that is manifested in the real world form of fabrics, lace and
ribbons, and cast them to the voracity of the lights up to be the
sold for little more than nothing. Heroism was needed, not tears.

Thinking
about this, he went to Carrion to think better, for there were always
more ideas clarity. Candida, after mess around with the children,
went to talk to Bringas. Rosalia heard from his studio, without distinguishing
more words and role of the state administrator ... Consolidated ...
Revolution ... Canary general ... Montpensier ... God help us ...
Spoke senior business and political low. Suddenly the lady heard very
violent crash, as furniture that comes to earth and breaking china.
The blow was followed by a cry of Bringas, but so sharp and painful,
Rosalie gasped, cold, stop ... What was it? Did he fallen below the
vault and picked the best of their husbands?

XX

After the brief
spell that caused him so unusual noises, Rosalie ran to Gasparini,
and there, Holy God, saw a show incomprehensible