 Dangerous social status, fatal forms peoples have need new
ideals and new young sap.

It is not scaremongering pessimistic ours: we look at social phenomena
objectively, putting muted passion and enthusiasm.

According to the statement of a humorist writer, skilled juggler of paradoxes, "everything
was mestizado in the country: trade, labor, agriculture, cows, horses, sheep; all that remained
was pure criollo politics. And is all that is wrong "[1]. Perhaps the only truth of an entire book.
That is the policy persists, it succeeds; purely empirical and emotional, personal. Or economic, or
social, or scientific. Sound of words, theatrical gestures of theatrical declamation, not an economic
idea, no philosophical principle or social order that determines. It's the old politics that becomes
- or rather, continuing - a Despite the change of some men by others, and the solemnity of
the palace declamations on Capitol Hill: that is, the policy of Tartuffe, which we will present
the Light of Day American pilgrimage, when, tired of living in Europe, made his trip incognito these
lands as alberdiana tasty creation. Is that Mr. Tartufo is an old friend ours. To Alberdi was a familiar
character. Miral how it portrays the ideal type of representative, with conditions also ideal: "You
should be looking - he says - all the skills of leadership, but really should be free of all
because if one is with him, that will be enough to never come to power, with the exterior of a
born ruler, should be more manageable a slave, must be a wheel with the air of a helmsman, a machine
with driver figure, a sheep skin of a lion, a rabbit with the skin of a hyena, a consummate
knave with gravely made man of honor. Must be a liar of birth and at the same time flajelo
of liars to notice the air of hate lies. The fact is a pitfall and vice of telling the truth
lies elsewhere. He who loves and hopes to have it, it must be maul hand before opening it, if it
is full of truths: truth and power are the antithesis. Must have talent to hide the truth by word
and the press. The phrase provided rules the world to be empty, because the phrase, as the drums,
more noise as more hollow "[2].

This page admirable eminent public seems written for our time. Land its Quijotania fantastic,
but it is not that we know, was always and still be still, conducive
to the truffles that have even sided with the sovereign people ...

"Fools
or criminals - says a respected writer - Grace or bittersweet, its
brilliant phraseology only serves to deceive the gullible and drag
them to destruction.

What a painful condition the nation is in such an opulent facade lies a ruined building and the
apparatus of civilization mask serves only to decrepitude and vices decay "[3].

The regression of this historic moment is undeniable. It is a state of full political pathology.
Bulk facts must pay the seriousness of this statement, suffice serenely
listening social environment to perceive.

It is "the shed of the old farce" that said Benavente. But it is not sorry for not tremble
and go collect the courage to Agustín Álvarez. Study it and meditate on the work of multiple
social projections, fruitful and sober teachings that in the strong fabric of your thinking,
strengthen our spirit, in his austere life find a role model and find the sower harvest the
good seed - yet fruitless - to spread it to the winds, in the certainty that contribute to improving
moral, social and political development of this piece of land in which we must act and live.

II .-- THE MAN AND THE WORK

For my part I have to confess with shame not to have known Alvarez,
but rather after twenty years, that is, in his work as a thinker,
moralist, sociologist, educator, it was in the highest conception
of the word.

His vast, complex and unusual work spread in many volumes, philosophy, education, politics
and sociology, written with that label is so characteristic, as his, which makes it distinctive
in a thousand.

I have not met before Alvarez.

On the other hand I'm not sure I would have covered full force and intent the value of their
writings and works, the first youth we like more than the phrase that sounds, the harmonic
clause in his ear, that content or substance. And it's not my fault, in my distant hometown
was unknown master and will remain so who knows for how long. Where, as saying of his, so
accurate as galling, it spends more to produce tallow and wax candles soap for hygiene, it is
clear that Alvarez and his ideas but could not get contraband. The environment is frankly
hostile to them. Ignore it as it ignores Ameghino, are known only in name. Just If Darwin and Comte
have an occasional unfaithful disciple. And how would hear the voice of lay teacher, the philosopher
of freedom, sharp and acerbic critic of our pathology social policy and if those societies
are an example of provincial Spanish-colonial past with all the prejudices and routines? Can
you hear the voice of Alvarez, his stout and strong criticism all religious dogmas which the meek
spirit of the father and calmly episcopal Esquiú governs the life of the people still in their
sermons in the odor of sanctity?

No one could see, then, the thinking among the deafening noise of the bells cast a daily flight
to better glory of the Lord, singing and begging beaterios mental poverty of the people. Compréndese
easily than in provincial towns where fanaticism takes forms so rare and where, we could say
without exaggeration, one learns to pray and to despise manual labor, a thinker of his race and
the strong texture of his criticism was systematically excluded. Thus, this virtuoso of thought
is almost strange to be known only begins today. On the other hand, the press gaucho and huckster,
who The truffle has to loose and easy applause, he took his silence for the war. And it includes
well.

Creole politician could not go look for his works a relevant phrase to adorn your appointment
speech indispensable, because he had filed a "Manual of Pathology." The lawyer, more or less leguleyo
and entanglements, the attorney black bird, finally, the endless series of those who fell under the
galling sharpness of his pen and all the huge legion of people "Good" that we encounter daily,
who lives to the worship of the prejudices rude and ridiculous, could not be friends with Alvarez,
and now have his name prendérsele their work with ill-concealed rage.

Things, people, customs, habits, routines, prejudices, hereditary defects, sediment social all focused
on the beam of his flashlight this spirit eager to learn and good.

Poke, remove, cut the sick, evil, ruthless with his knife. Everything falls under the dissection
and analysis.

A pair of diagnosing the disease state the remedy for the cure, although cautery is here or
there amputation.

His humor provincial breaks in sarcasm, in the light and barely perceptible smile mocking - I imagine
that constantly distending the corner of his mouth -; in criticism sharp, thin-sectarian social,
petrified bodies struggle to bring down the spirit of observation
and experimentation of scientific positivism, not revealed truths
and immutable truths, always having the right phrase, the timely appointment,
saying caustic for all these things as ugly as ours.

* * *

But what brings out the value of his work with accented relief, is that all of it, like himself,
was the product of their own efforts. Orphan boy, learned early the pain of life, that is, had to be
prematurely man, but that does not quench thirst perfection of his spirit, the ardent desire of knowing,
or abate the fiery temperament and determined. He came to Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires sighed,
dazzling and golden city, scene indispensable to all consecrations,
but not before having given proof of his strong character leading
a student revolt in the national association of Mendoza, where he
studied side.

So no gold in the bags, but with a great value to the fight, arrived in Cosmopolis, to fight hand
to hand with life. Was formed only in the studio and work without managers mental, without
guides, without guardians of their intelligence - the worst calamity - following their vocations
sometimes driven by the needs of others, to find the final guidance
its spirit, more than half of its existence, then following this path
of progress until his death.

This status of being the product of their work, owe nothing to their prestige and their merits
conquered anyone, will be later because of their pride, a pride legitimate,
Indeed, he repeatedly expressed in the words of his biographers in
relevant and expressive English: self-made man.

"

The vocation of the major characters is usually the ministry of an idea - said a writer Contemporary
[4], regarding our beloved thinker - and Alvarez had all the characteristics the apostle: the
unwavering faith that makes it persist in its stubborn fight in a hostile environment fantastic
visionary look towards a humanitarian ideal of social perfection, beautiful life and better for
all by cultural diffusion, because he understood that education is a second nature, believing "you can
change, through school, a village of rogues in a nation of good people and a land of misery and curse
in the land of prosperity and blessings "[5]. That's the hot passion that is discovered through
its social critique in its many facets, although it is directed more to the reason that the feeling,
prefer the brain to the heart and seek quiet reflection rather than the effectiveness impressionable.
Finally, the simplicity the writer, carelessness in man proverbially yours, that is forgotten
of the person to devote to others, the worship of an idea or ideal
that is often always a constant obsession in the predestined.

The man, his whole life, his spirit tempered in adversity and setbacks, is reflected in his work
as a writer, so clear, so the sharper the picture is more accurate than ever that style and
man. "And so the book reflects the personality of its author - says Alicia Moreau - if you
read seems to emerge from the pages that its original shape, simple and modest without affectation,
sober and friendly gesture, the look serene, smile goodness finely
nuanced irony, the author takes his work much as the work in its author,
it was never a man more moral authority to talk to their neighbors
"[6].

Seek in vain in that unit Agustin Alvarez, the spiritual consequence, they have often other writers and
thinkers, from his youth and full maturity. Not exist in him. Life made him like so many others
to follow guidelines, which may not be the favorite his temperament, and so often we change directions.
Multiple distracting activities and concerned about its existence.

Military First - and this is the most amazing case of Alvarez, - lawyer journalist, judge,
writer, member, university professor later.

But not lost in vain time spent in the various fields of activity; will accumulate data, different
notes, piling up observations, making the learning nature of men and things, customs and habits,
feeling errors, distortions, Ancestral vices, perhaps always with that smile of a good man,
"tinged with irony," which will serve to further review and advisory work as a writer and
philosopher manners moralist. That's what will abhor all Spanish-colonial past, feeling for him a holy
horror, like other great thinkers of our: Sarmiento and Alberdi, past that has shaped such
individuals and companies, resigned to fatalism, superstitious, fans and lazy, as a consequence
of bad political system of feudalism the detestable bonded to the economic and, above all, as
a product of morphine absorbed by centuries of Christianity in an effort to cultivate the soul for
the afterlife has neglected this "skinny Mortality," forming companies reluctant to hygiene, culture
and work, unsuitable for civilization and technological progress. With its moral renunciation
of pain and bitterness, depressive personality, that he will fight tenaciously knowing how deep
are your roots and how scattered they are, as earnest of science that was, without a man of science
itself. So try to show the basis for a new moral world based on the cult of life, beauty and freedom
of internal and external, by individual education in virtue and freedom that comes from wisdom.
So also will a European, coinciding in this as in his passion for popular education, again with
Sarmiento, because above all he was passionate about the Anglo-Saxon type. Strive to improve
the individual working on native yeast, depending on the model of the north, thus understanding
improve the community. Filled with a healthy optimism, confident in the future, working the
hard mortar without fear of breaking their hands.

Working for the future, generous and unselfish, trusting him, understanding
that "all the ideals of this can be done in the future as they are
exceeded in this all the dreams of the past.

"

* * *

We do not here a critical study. Just outlined, without further claim, the work together man.
Ethicist in the manner of Emerson, - with whom he has found somewhat similar - although not
as accurate likeness, will be the South Emerson, more properly, the Argentine Emerson.

His work as a writer would not begin until the thirty-seven years of his life, "South America ",
followed by other volumes that have a marked unit trends," Manual political pathology, "which
will be called the first"

Manual of Argentine idiotic, "changing later the name and content with some additions, will
appear after other books more: "Essay on Education," Where do we go? "to top it off, calm and thorough
writer, with "Transformation of Race in America", "History of free institutions" and " creation
of the moral world. "

By the virtuosity of its ideals and the austerity of his life as quiet and strong man "Was armed
with one invulnerable shield of goodness and justice that allowed Bergeret M. pick the stone
that he threw an angry mob because he had dared to say smile and whisper the truth: it is an
argument run, "we can consider the ideal type of citizen - who said of Alberdi, Jaures - in
the most honorable expression of the term and teacher of the people as well, because his life
was not like many writers of harem - away of collective life and his time - weaving filigree
arabesques, but dedicola in laborious years past and educate the people and the youth, from
the chair, books, pamphlets, public lectures, to free him from the
religious dogmas and prejudices and routines of all kinds, having
freed himself by wisdom, and because exponent is a high energy, work,
effort itself, is worthy to stand as a model for young people and
working men who are fighting poverty by improved every day, carrying
pinned to a healthy soul and noble ideal.

III .-- THE WRITER

Style was simple, easy and clear without elaborate erudition of those who want to dazzle more
than teaching. This does not mean that there was no scholarship in his books there is, and good
law, because it was an indefatigable student, passionate about science,
often enjoying there substantiate their allegations.

Or cumbersome, or solemn, in spite of being filled their Book safe and healthy moral maxims that
reflect their desire for justice and good, constant preoccupation of his life as a writer.

Sometimes
become mischievous, malicious, sharp, to censure vice, prejudice
or routine.

It is always picturesque, well, full of wholesome joy, as if he had proposed cure innate sadness
of our people, imbued with romantic sadness.

Would have said that he was concerned how little. His books are full of sloppiness - especially
the first, where even the grammar is suffering - at some nice carelessly.

Alvarez is not a stylist. Might argue - as was said of Sarmiento - who writes in his shirtsleeves.
Never mind that the word does not sound good, the phrase is a common place, provided it or accurately
express this concept and its meaning is well understood.

Literature will not empty of litter and bombast; not write or a page that has the convoluted affectation
of speech, the careful refinement of form, which degenerates often in a hateful verbiage, in which
so many people waste their time points. Will not never or a watermark, or an arabesque. He is interested
in the ideas, concepts and expression truths.

Go to the root of the problem or issue, and treat it with clarity and knowledge. Without this
amount does not like beauty, like that abound in his books beautiful
images graceful and betting as brides, since that does not disdain
to join with the sterner of the curve idea elegant and harmonious art.

But family always ironic. This last condition comes from his strong native strain, is the native
cunning of the educated man has been refined and polished.

It has been criticized, and rightly so, that was not the domain of
artistic synthesis of prose.

Repeats every time, turns and detours on the same topic. In this sense we can say he wrote many
useless pages, but this is not accept that accusation of bad taste and irrelevance that cast
him in the face for having given too much importance to the issue religious. She definitely has to
worry about writers and thinkers, and Alvarez was right, and we will thereafter.

There is something, especially in the writer and man, which make it unique, unique: it is their
moral courage. Knowing the truth is and, indeed, a merit. Say it without hesitation or euphemism
is itself admirable. But live, bringing the idea to fact, from theory
to practice preaching to the action is, no doubt, a heroic. Present
their prestige, their merits, their whole future is the highest modern
heroism and noble.

Tocol live a Byzantine era rampant corruption
that invaded everything and moral values ??were quoted in local currency.
A nation of gentlemen that there was abundant manhood, well, that
is, a town of respectable thieves