 

Bolivar accompanied on his trip to the new military representative of Spain, for as good patriot
could not live off the floor that he was born and whose fate so often precarious accelerated
the beating of his noble and courageous heart. The idea to give his country days of happiness
and prosperity, opening the path to their future independence, more than one occasion had come
to interrupt your sleep and halagueenas rocking their hopes of glory. On 17 May Bolivar Emparan
and stepped on the Costa Firme. The first provisions of the new captain general were so violent
and misguided, that everyone, without exception, so Spanish as Creoles, with the intention
of not separating the colony from the mother country, formed the plan to overthrow their power and
then be analogous to a government of that.

Expiring in the month of March 1810 and was agreed according to the Marquis del Toro, Col. militia
battalion of the valleys of Aragua, was to mark the entrance of seizing April general surprise
of the captain, whom news of the project, through an informer vile,
slapped hands with the conspirators.

Contrary to what might be expected, and at odds with his first acts
of government, was limited Emparan to confine in Maracaibo, Margarita,
and other parts of the province to major authors of the aborted plan.

Vague rumors spread by this time about the dissolution of the central Board the dispersion of
its members, rumors were confirmed on April 18, Wednesday Day Santo, in a very broad, as also
was learned that the entire Peninsula, less Cadiz and Isla de Leon, was already occupied by the
French, which was spread concern with lightning speed among all classes
of people, and even the Spaniards expressed fear, apprehension and
mistrust of government.

The occasion presented an excellent forum for the Creoles to revive past claims, and new spell, drew
his party to the principal chiefs and officers of the troops who
garrisoned the city, and to the council, which was composed of Spanish
and American almost equal parts, is ready to lead a discussion with
the captain general.

The next day, on the occasion of attending the celebration of the offices of Holy Thursday the City,
true to his promise, an invitation to step Emparan, who was present in the chapter house and found
the municipal body set up in extraordinary session, assuming an agena powers and trying the
danger to America, the policy to be adopted in those circumstances
and the urgent need to organize their own government that put it under
cover of anarchy.

Emparan, after having skillfully evaded the considerations and difficulties that the council
presented to him, concluded by stating: "it would inconvenientisima any innovation," and left
from there go then to the metropolitan church. But the conspirators are, will intercept the
pass, and one of them named Francisco Salias, helped the mob, forced him to return to the chapter
house no bodies found at the step guard oppose the least resistance,
but, on the contrary, they express their menacing attitude denying
its chief official honors.

Emparan had to assent to the idea of ??a supreme board, but having had the Chapter the weakness of
access for their party to continue occupying the front of her office President, a doctor and
canon of the Cathedral of Caracas, the Senor Don Jose Cortes Madariaga
which was announced at City Hall as a member of the clergy and people,
in an interesting and deposition eloquent speech of the captain asked
the general.

In such critical circumstances, Emparan, performing on the balcony to the crowd that surrounded
the chapter house, I appeal for your vote, but this, according to the sworn, shouted iAfuera!
iAfuera!

Do not you want .-- Nor I want the command, said the indignant, while trying to conceal his anger
and embarrassment. Record volumes of these words and felt right there as a voluntary resignation.

The
council, aided by several individuals known to its members as members of different kinds of corporations
and society, declared: "That the provinces of Venezuela would proceed to form a government charged
with exercising sovereignty on behalf and in representation Fernando VII, "net through which
recognize the authority of the regency, and then expelled its territory
by leading authorities that there had been represented to the nation
Spanish, at the same time abolishing the hated tribute from the Indians
and the futility of slaves.

Once banished the captain general, the upper control arms was conferred
on a sugeto great instruction and personal value, this was Colonel
Fernando Toro, brother of the Marquis of that name, who had been educated
in Spain.

Soon the provinces of Barcelona, ??Cumana, Margarita, Varinas and so on the other, less Coro
and Maracaibo who pleaded true to the regency, sent their deputies to the board, thus recognizing the
new government of Venezuela. While it is true that some Guyana will retract its first deal by
sending prisoners to the metropolis, to Havana and Puerto-Rico addicts to the new order of
things, on the other hand, the recognition by the Merida government
established in the capital, separating from Maracaibo with noble enthusiasm,
compensated in part similar defection.

The Board sent to Coro and Maracaibo some commissioners to deal with the Spanish authorities, and
they received them as traitors, and as such the submitted without hesitation to prisons in Puerto
Rico.

In view of such an outrage, ordered the Board that the Marquis del Toro depart in front of some troops
against the province of Coro, and the said gentleman, meeting with the provisions that it placed as
soon headquarters in Carora.

While these events were held, Colonel Simon Bolivar, invested with
the powers necessary by the Board and accompanied by Luis Lopez Mendez,
went to England to seek protection of his government against the common
enemy, if you're trying to take over Venezuela, and at the same time
to implore his good offices of Spain so as not to disturb the peace
and good harmony that had existed up there among the inhabitants of
both hemispheres.

Although Bolivar was well received by the Marquis Wellesley, Minister of Foreign Affairs of
Great Britain, received only evasive answers because of the alliance
at that time had made the two nations.

Once this mission, our hero sail back to his native country in the company of General Miranda.

The
general and special courts of the Spanish nation, installed on September 24 on the Isle of
Leon, gave powers to the minister embracing the Supreme Council of Spain and Indian Cortabarria
to Don Antonio, aided by some warships, troops Puerto-Rico, Cuba and Cartagena, intervene
in the affairs of the colonies, but with the prevention of non-resort to force of arms but
in the extreme case that the media of persuasion in all respects were sterile. To this ought to
act according to the governor Maracaibo, Don Fernando Miyares, who wore the same appointment
Cortabarria captain general of Venezuela.

The Caracas junta initially refused to recognize and render obedience to Parliament; but then,
by accessing the opinion of its most respected members, wanted to test disinterestedness convening
a National Congress. There was then an abortive uprising in sense of recognition of the Council of
Regency, and surprised by the Board, the rebels were sentenced to confinement in some vaults
of Porto Cabello and La Guaira, and other exiles in perpetuity.

The latter included the rich brothers Don Francisco Peninsula and Don Manuel Gonzalez and Linares,
trade in Caracas.

The news of horrific murders in Quito in the persons of several determined Patriots, was great
indignation among the people of Caracas, who, surrounding the palace the Board, called for
the expulsion of the Spaniards and Canary Islanders, but the Board, ruling it hiciesen funeral
honors to the unfortunate Americans, achieving appease the tumult,
and to avoid reproduction of such scandals and disorders, the evening
of that day, which was October 24, imprisoned and exiled to which
promoters supposed riot.

These were Jose Maria Gallegos, Jose Felix Ribas and his three brothers.

Thirty-five days after this event, ie, 28 November, the army the West, led by Toro, attacked
the garrison troops in Coro, evicting a stronghold and making them a fee, and two days after
fleeing to ponia Miyares, which met him in Sabaneta with 800 men between infantry and cavalry, doing
some prisoners and gaining a piece of bell. Carora stopped biting them in the rear, and then
and manned this population, as well as that of Barquisimeto, he retired
to Caracas, where ran the news of the arrival of Miranda to Venezuela.

The Board ruled in the name of Fernando VII, believed that giving asylum to so ardent Republican
would be highly contradictory to the situation in which he had placed and try to clog the landing
of this general, and even came to give a diplomatic dependence to remove him. But the people held
out his hand of protection, welcomes you with the most unique showing respect and deference.
Then the government made a show of enthusiasm and gave him the title
of lieutenant general, commanding us to seek and destroy all documents
the previous administration made against the good name of so distinguished
and patriotic military.

Thus ended the year 1810, preparing, through events that almost dare
us to describe as angels, the realization of desires that burned in
the hearts of Venezuelans.

CHAPTER III

, 1811 .-- Entry Reunion and organization of a Congress. - Measures taken by This body .-- .-- Departure of
General Conspiracies Toro for Appointment .-- Miranda Valencia as Chief of the Army .-- His acts Constitution
of Venezuela .-- .-- .-- The capital of the state .-- Monteverde Events of the time and after
the arrival of this character .-- Disturb the cause of Venezuela .-- Earthquake. - Influence of disasters
linked to the war .-- .-- Defection of some cities Suspension State law .-- Miranda Projects
Donations .-- .-- Elevation of the government Bolivar Puerto-Cabello
futile effort .-- .-- .-- Scenes bloody disgrace .-- Miranda Offers
Defeat sterile Dictator .-- .-- .-- Banditry imminent danger of Bolivar
and his trip to La Guaira Selection armistice .-- .-- .-- Capitulaciones
Monteverde is owner of the country.

We inaugurated the year 1811 with the blockade of the Venezuelan provinces, locking Cortabarria
ordered executed in compliance with a decree of the regency, while
the board, faithful calling, wearing out the reunion of the Congress
adjourned.

Pursuant to for it was to consist of forty-four deputies.

On March 2nd was the day fixed for the reunion, which was to be verified in the capital, where that body
shall be installed, forming a chamber, common and undivided, comprising respectable patricians
sent by the provinces of Barcelona, ??Varinas, Caracas, Cumana, Margarita, Merida and Trujillo.
Among its worthy members included General Miranda, the Marquis del
Toro, Francisco Javier Ustariz, Lino Clemente, Martin Tovar, Juan
German Roscio, Nicolas Antonio Briceno, Francisco Javier Yanes and
several others.

After organizing their service, Congress named three individuals responsible for exercising the executive,
and three as alternates to the necessary cases of absence or illness the first, that the lords
Baltasar Padron, accredited lawyer, Juan Escalona, militia officer
elevated to the class of colonel by the Supreme Board, and Cristobal
Mendoza who served as attorney.

Also established an Advisory Council.

One of the most important agreements was the legislative body of the enactment of the famous
minutes, by which it declared that the provinces of Venezuela in the representation, would form
hereinafter referred to a Confederation of Free and Independent States,
with complete separation of Spain.

Each of these could be the form of government that best suited him, as to the will of their
peoples.

He soon made to feel some revolutionary movements, promoted by agents Cortabarria, which were quelled
by government forces and sentenced to the ultimate penalty by its
courts persons who appeared as authors of the rebellion.

But a dangerous revolt broke out in Valencia, where the rebels, ignoring the authority of Congress,
proclaimed the legitimacy of Ferdinand VII.

The general flew to repress Toro, making at first to dislodge the enemy from their positions advanced,
and ending with being rejected in turn to Maracay, from which point sending emissaries to Caracas
to assist him with reinforcements. The government then appointed to Miranda commanding general
of the army, marched east against the Spaniards and forced them to
capitulate, entering revolt in the city on 13 July.

But due to lack of necessary precautions for the vanquished, who had kept arms and ammunition,
leaving his headquarters fell to the troops de Miranda, taking them in headlong flight to
Guaraca.

After a fact so little noble, Miranda, in the mood for revenge, came
up with new forces and on days 12 and August 15, reduced the Spaniards
to the last end, surrendered to discretion for having been rejected
many proposals of capitulation had submitted.

The prisoners were sentenced to death by the courts, Congress determined penalty be commuted by
others.

Formulated, discussed and enacted the Federal Constitution of the seven provinces of Venezuela,
The decree was published on December 21. Recognized as the basis of the representative system
sovereignty residing in the village split the power into legislative, executive and judicial forming
separate bodies each other; garantizabase popular law and the inviolability address; banned
forever the use of torture and the personal jurisdiction and no pronounced sentence for treason
against the State would remain defamatory children the accused, abolished the slave trade and
the Indians were matched to other Venezuelan rights and duties, we developed public instruction; extinguianse
titles of nobility hereditary, so degrading as any qualification
race and, finally, was adopted the yellow flag, blue and red, raised
by Miranda when his expedition of 1806, considering it as the hallmark
of the federation.

The city of Valencia was later declared as the capital of the State, and Congress suspended its work
on February 15, 1812, postponed its next meeting for 1 deg.

March, not be dissolved without first garrison commanded the left bank of the Orinoco to register
defensive.

From that date until the arrival of Commander Domingo Monteverde, a native of the Canary Islands
and the service of Spain, there were some meetings, prosperous and adverse about others, including
the Federal troops commanded by Colonels Francisco Gonzalez and Moreno, Manuel Villapol and
Francisco Sola and Spanish, these battles took place in Santa Cruz de la Soledad, in the waters
between the gray of Macareo and Pedernales in Barrancas, in Lorondo
and Angostura where, after a serious setback that had to fortify Villapol
to Maturin save its people, Single Moreno and disappeared, leaving
their soldiers in the most criminal neglect and at the mercy of the
enemy.

Choir came to Monteverde in the company of Don Juan Manuel Cagigal brigadier and other military
leaders, carrying money, weapons and other necessary to make war
on the rebellious provinces; and from that moment the Patriots, not
for lack of courage and determination but because of lower number,
were narrowed and harassed more activity every day.

The March 15 revolution Monteverde protected them in leaded Liquisique unfairly the Indian Reyes
Vargas, that no great merit he had received the appointment of Captain
the government of Venezuela, and six days of this defection the patriots,
who is serious condition deprived of their chief commander Gil, were
completely defeated Carora