 Oh, the dishes of the Mommy! So rich! ...

And just forgot to Seville on the evening of rest, when there were no bulls the next day the
whole band, surrounded by fans eager to get a good memory of city, got into a cafe in singing
"Flamenco", where everything was women and song for teacher.

Returning to his home to rest for the remainder of the year, Gallardo was satisfaction the powerful
who, forgetting honors, is given to ordinary life.

He slept until late, free train schedules, without emotion at the thought of the bulls. Nothing
to do that day or the other or the other! All his travels come to
the street Sierpes or the Plaza de San Fernando.

The family looked like another, more cheerful and better health insurance to have him home
for a few months. Thrown out with felt back waving his gold-headed cane and looking bright
thick fingers.

In the lobby, several men were waiting, standing by the gate through which the Irons could see
the bright white patio, with fresh cleaning.

People were scorched with Sun, sour smell sweaty, dirty blouse and slouch hat with frayed edges.
Some were farm workers who were on their way, and going through natural
thought Sevilla implore the aid of the famous matador, who was called
Juan.

Others lived in the city and tuteaban the bullfighter, calling Juaniyo.

Gallardo,

with memories physiognomy of a man of crowds, he recognized their faces and admitted the familiarity.
They were comrades in school or vagrant children.

- Do not leave
the business, eh?

... Times are bad pa toos.

And before this familiarity encourages them to greater intimacy, again Doodle, which the gate
remained in his hand.

- Tell the lady to give you a couple of pesetas pa a ca.

And she went out whistling, happy with their generosity and beauty of life.

In the tavern next to the doors asomábanse Mountaineer boys and parishioners,
as if she had ever seen, with smiling mouth and eyes devouring curiosity.

-
Salu, cabayeros!

... It agradese the orsequio, but do not drink.

And getting rid of the fan who marched against him with a cane in hand, went ahead, being arrested
in another street for a couple of old friends of his mother. Asked him to be sponsor of the
grandson of one of them. His poor little daughter was to deliver from time to time; in-law,
a "gallant" angry, who had walked with a stick several times to exit
the square to defend his idol, he dared not speak.

- But is Cursed!

... Is it that I take ustés by wet nurse? ... I have more ahijaos there in Hospisio.

To get rid of them, advising that you can see the mummy. What she say! And kept going, not stopping
until the Sierpes street, waving to some and leaving others who might
enjoy the honor of marching at his side, in glorious privacy, in the
eyes of passersby.

Asomábase club Forty-five to see if he was in his possession: a society aristocratic fixed number,
as indicated by its title, which only spoke of bulls and horses. It was composed of rich enthusiasts
and ranchers, figuring prominently, as an oracle, the Marquis de Moraima.

In one of these outputs, a Friday afternoon, Gallardo, on his way to the streets of Snakes, he
felt the desire to enter the parish of San Lorenzo.

In the square alineábanse luxurious carriages. The best of the city was on this day to pray the
miraculous image of Our Lord Jesus del Gran Poder. Ladies down their cars, dressed in black, with
rich shawls, and men went into the church, drawn by female competition.

Gallardo went well. A bullfighter must seize opportunities to rub
elbows with people high position.

The son of Mrs. Angus was proud of winning when he Messrs. greeted rich and elegant ladies whispering
your name, designating it with the eyes.

In addition, he was a devotee of Lord of Great Power. National tolerate the views on "God or Nature
"no big deal, because the divinity was for him something vague and
indecisive, like the existence of a gentleman of that can be heard
calmly all kinds of gossip, through what is known only by hearsay.

But the Virgen de la Esperanza and Jesus del Gran Power was seeing them from their earliest years, and
they that they are not touched.

Its sensitivity of rough strapping youth theater moved by the pain of Christ with the Cross,
his face sweaty, anxious and pale, like that of some comrades who
had seen lying in the infirmary of the arenas.

Had to be right with the mighty lord, Fathers and prayed fervently several standing before
the image, reflecting the candles as red stars in the corneas of his eyes in Africa.

A movement of women kneeling before him distracted his attention,
eager to interventions supernatural life-threatening.

A lady passing between the devout, attracting attention from them: a tall, slender, Beauty noisy,
light-colored dress with a big hat with feathers, under which outbreak of scandal shone bright
gold of her hair.

Gallardo met her. Dona Sol was the niece of the Marquis de Moraima, "Ambassador", as was called
in Seville. Happened among women regardless of their movements curiosity satisfied with the
glances and whisper their words, as if that were a tribute natural that should accompany his
presentation everywhere.

The costume of an exotic elegance and enormous hat stood out with bright enhancement on dark
mass of feminine headgear.

He knelt, bowed his head as if he prayed about moments, and then her eyes clear, greenish-blue
with hints of gold, paseáronse by the church quietly, as if in a
theater and to examine the competition looking familiar faces.

These eyes seemed to smile when they found the face of a friend, and persisting on walks, eventually
tripping over Gallardo fixed on her.

The sword was not modest.

Used to be the subject of the contemplation of thousands People in the afternoon of racing,
he believed heartily that where was he all eyes were being forced to him. Many women, in times
of confidence, had revealed the excitement, curiosity and the desire they felt to see him
first in the ring.

Dona Sol's gaze did not get off to meet with the bullfighter, but rather, remained fixed, with
a chill of a great lady, forcing the matador, respectful of rich, to divert him.

"What a woman! - Thought Gallardo, his petulance popular idol -. If this is for me !...» cunt

Outside
the church felt the need not to go, to see her again, staying close the door. He warned the heart
something extraordinary, as in the evenings of good fortune. It was a hunch that the mysterious
circle made him ignore the protests of public, and launched the biggest ever daring excellent
results.

When she left the temple, looked back at him without surprise, as
if he guessed would wait at the door.

Rose by open carriage, accompanied by two friends, and driver to herd the horses, yet he turned his
head to see the sword, marking in your mouth a slight smile.

Gallardo walked distracted all afternoon. He thought of his previous affairs, in the triumphs
of wonder and curiosity made by his arrogance bullfighter; conquests they filled of pride, making
believe irresistible, and now inspired him some embarrassment. A woman like this, a great lady
who had traveled the world and lived in Seville as a queen dethroned! That was an achievement! ...
In his admiration for the beauty reverently uníase of old urchin full of respect for the rich,
in a country where the birth and fortune are very important. If he got the attention of this
woman! What greater Win! ...

His attorney, a great friend of the Marquis de Moraima and related to the best of Sevilla,
had sometimes spoken of Dona Sol

After an absence of years, had returned to Seville a few months earlier, causing excitement young
people. It came after his long stay abroad, hungry for things land,
enjoying the folk customs and finding it all very interesting, very
... "Artistic."

He went to the old bulls nice suit, imitating the decoration and bearing of the lovely ladies painted
by Goya.

Strong female, accustomed to sports and a great horseman, people saw galloping on the outskirts
of Seville, carrying the black skirt Amazon a man's jacket, red tie and white beaver on golden helmet
of her hair.

Sometimes he held the pole crossed the pommel of the saddle, and a platoon boobies friends
was turned into the pastures to harass and bulls down, enjoying much in the fiesta brava, abundant
in danger.

There was a girl. Gallardo vaguely remembered having seen in his childhood in the ride Delights
sitting next to her mother and covered with curly whiteness, like dolls luxurious shop windows,
while he, wretched urchin, jumped from the carriage wheels looking for cigarette butts. Were
undoubtedly of the same age should be at the end of the score, but so magnificent, so different
from other women! ... It seemed an exotic bird, a bird of paradise down in a pen, between
glossy and well-fattened chickens.

Don Jose the manager knew his history ... A head that disrupted the Dona Sol! Your name romantic
drama fits well with its original character and independence of their customs.

His mother dead and possessed of a good fortune, had married in Madrid with a character years
her senior, but offered to a woman anxious to shine and the new incentive to travel the world
as an ambassador, representing Spain in the main courts.

- What fun is that girl, John! - Said the manager -. The head has become wild in ten years from
one end to another of Europe! Think of it as a book of geography secret notes at the bottom of
each page. Surely you can not look at the map without doing a little cross of memory together
with the large capital ... And the poor ambassador! Died, no doubt, boring, because he had
no where to go. The girl stung high. He was the good lord intended to represent us in court,
and before the year was already queen or empress of that earth writing to Spain to relieve
the ambassador with his formidable spouse, which newspapers called "the Spanish irresistible."
The crowned heads that has disrupted that cunt!

... The queen trembled to see her come, as if it was cholera. Finally, the poor ambassador
was no more room available for their talents that the republics of America but being a man of good
principles, friend of kings, preferred to die ... And do not think the girl was satisfied only
with staff eating and dancing at the royal palaces. If was really all that counts! ... That girl
is the most extreme: all or nothing, as soon is fixed at the top,
and looking below ground scratching.

I have said that back in Russia went after one of those hairy to throw bombs: a young boy with
a woman's face, which was not the case because it interfered in their business. And the girl,
therefore, erre que erre behind him, until finally he was hanged.

They also say he had his things with a painter in Paris, and to ensure that portrayed light
clothes, with one arm in the face for no be known, and thus walk in the phototype of matchboxes.
This must be false: exaggerations. What seems certain is that he was good friends with a German,
a musician of such who write operas.

If you hear her play the piano! ... And when he sings! Like any tiple of the theater coming
to San Fernando in the Easter season. And do not think sung in Italian only, she Camela all:
French, German, English. His uncle, the Marquis Moraima, which, here between the two, you know
it's something gross when she speaks in Forty-five, says he has his suspicions that knows Latin
... What a woman! Eh Juanillo? What female as interesting!

The manager spoke with admiration of Dona Sol, considering extraordinary and original all events
of his life as well as the undoubted uncertain. His birth and fortune inspired him with respect
and kindness, as well as to Gallardo. Ocupábanse it with smiles admiration. The same facts in another
woman would have given vent to a flood of comments irreverent, comparing it to the beast of prey in
thick tail that is the protagonist of many fables.

- In Seville - still the manager - leading an exemplary life. For this I think if it will lie what
you have abroad. Slander of some chickens who want to enter grapes and are green!

And laughing at the arrest of this woman, who at times was as brave and assailants a man, repeated
the rumors that had circulated in certain clubs in the streets of Suckers. When "Ambassador" came
to live in Sevilla, all the youths had formed a cut around it.

- Imagine, Juanillo. An elegant woman, of which here are not used, carrying their clothes and hats
from Paris, her perfume in London, and also a friend of kings ... As it were marked with the brand
of the first herds in Europe ... They went like crazy after their steps, and she allowed some
liberties, wanting to live among them as a man. But some went on the rampage, mistaking the familiarity
with something else, and lacking words, hands were long ... There were slaps, Juanillo, and
worse. That girl is care. It seems that shoots the weapons, who knows how to punch as an English
sailor, and also knows the way to fight the Japanese who call jitsu. Total, who dares a Christian
to give her a pinch, and she, with golden hands, not just angry, he pulls and leaves you a heap.
Now the plague less, but have enemies out there talking ill of her: some praising what is a
lie, others denying even that is pretty.

Doña Sol, according to the agent, showed himself enthusiastic of his
life in Seville.

After long stay in misty and cold countries, admired the deep blue
sky, the winter sun of soft gold, and languages ??made the sweetness
of life in this country so ... 'Picturesque'.

- The excited about
the simplicity of our customs.

It seems an Englishwoman of coming in Easter. As if it had been born in Sevilla! As if seeing
it for the first time! Dice will spend the summer abroad and the
winters here.

It is tired of life of palaces and cuts, and if you saw how people
treat!

... Has made the sister received as a Brotherhood, the most popular,
the Christ of Triana, the Holiest Puppy, and spent a Chamomile batons
money for brothers.

Some nights are full house guitarist and dancers: Sevilla few girls
learn the singing and dancing.

With them are their teachers and their families and to the more remote relatives, all swell
with olives, salami and wine, and Dona Sol, sitting in a chair like
a queen, spend hours dancing after asking dance, all land.

He says this is a taste that was equal to not know what king that opera singers made for himself.
His servants, some young men who came with her values ??drawn and serious, they put in tails,
with large trays, distributing Drinking the dancers, who, in full
Jumer, I pull the pin and throw them olive pits eyes.

A binge of the most honest and funny! ... Now Dona Sol receives for Owl morning when an old
gypsy, giving guitar lessons, teacher of the most traditional, and
when they do not find their visits with the instrument in the knees,
is with an orange in hand.

Oranges meals that creature has since he arrived! Still have not had enough! ...

So Jose was explaining to his killer the original features of Dona Sol

Four days after seeing Gallardo in the parish of San Lorenzo, the
manager went to the sword with some mystery in a street cafe Sierpes.

-
Gacha, are the child of the lot smoother.

You know who told me about you?

And his mouth closer to a bullfighter's ear, said hoarsely:

- Dona
Sol!

He had asked his killer, showing desire to report back. He was a so original! So Spanish! ...

-
He says he's seen you kill several times: once in Madrid, other do not know where ... I applauded.
Know that you are very brave ... For you see that if you take sticks! What an honor! Going to
be brother or something like that of all the kings of the European deck.

Gallardo smiled modestly, with downcast eyes, but also strutted her slender person, as if not
considered difficult or extraordinary assumptions of his attorney.

- But there should be no illusions, Juanillo - he continued -. Doña Sol wants to see up close a
bullfighter, with the same interest as the teacher takes lessons Luchuzo. Local color and
nothing else. "Bring you tomorrow at Tablada past," he said. You know what that means: a throw
of cattle ranching Moraima, a party that has organized the Marquis you enjoy your niece. We will go
I too have been invited.

And after two days the teacher and his attorney came on the afternoon of the fair district, as
handsome vaulter, including the expectation of the people who looked
out the doors and were grouped on sidewalks.

- Van to Tablada - say
-.

There demolition of cattle.

The agent, rider on a white mare and bony, was dressed as a field:
sturdy jacket, cloth pants with yellow leggings, and those calls the
leather leggings zajones.

The sword had appealed to the party as usual and bizarre outfit of former bullfighters before
the modern customs matched their clothing with that of other mortals. A hat covered his head
calanes velvet, with curly mote, subject to the jaw by a chin strap. The collar, clean tie, was
tied with a pair of bright, and two thicker flashed on the rolling
front.

The jacket and vest were wine-colored velvet, with black braid and
arambeles, the strip of red silk, the tight trousers of dark point,
modeling the muscular and slender legs of the bullfighter, together
the knees with black cockade leagues.

The leggings were of amber color, with stripes leather along the
openings, and the boots of the same color, half-hidden in temper the
broad Arab bared large silver spurs.

In the saddle of chair on the colorful blanket Jerez, whose borlaje hung on both sides of the horse,
resting a gray jacket with black patches and red lining.

The two horsemen galloped, carrying over his shoulder like a lance fine and sturdy pole wood,
with a ball on his shot guarding the iron. His time at the popular neighborhood aroused a standing
ovation. Olé handsome men! Women waved.

- Go with Dio, Gen boy! Fun, Senor Juan!

Stung the horses to move beyond the urchins running after them, and alleys blue and white walls
estremeciéronse paved the rhythmic jingle of horseshoes.

In the quiet street of stately homes with bars and big bellied viewpoints, where he lived Dona
Sol vaulter found others waiting at the door, motionless on their
horses and supported by the spears.

They were gentlemen, relatives or friends of the lady, who greeted the bullfighter with friendly
frankness, that it was pleased the game.

He left the house the Marquis de Moraima, immediately mounted his horse.

- Right now the girl down.

Women you know ... take long to get ready.

He said this with sententious gravity that gave all his words, as if they were oracles. He
was a tall old man, bony, with big white whiskers, including the
mouth and eyes retained a naive child.

Polite and measured in his words, gallant in his bearing, sparing of the smile, the Marquis
de Moraima was a great lord of the past, dressed almost Suit rider always the enemy of urban life,
disturbed by the social demands family when they held him in Seville, and anxious to run the
country between herdsmen and jeans, who was with a simplicity of
comrades.

He had almost forgotten to write, for lack of use, but so he spoke
of fighting bulls, breeding bulls and horses or agricultural work,
animábanse his eyes, speaking with the aplomb of a connoisseur.

Hazy sunlight. Gold paled the sheet lying on the white one sides of the street. Some looked to the
top. For the blue belt that limited the two rows Eaves spent a dark cloud.

- No cuidao - said the Marquis seriously -. On leaving home I saw a papeliyo it er yevaba wind
in a direcsión that I know.

No Yovera.

And all agreed, convinced. I could not raining, as it assured the Marquis de Moraima. Same time
knew that a pastor old, and had no fear of being wrong.

Then he faced Gallardo.

- I'm going to miss this year some were running great.

What bull! See if you give them death Christian Bueno. You know that this year I have not
quedao der happy too. The probesitos meresían more.

Dona Sol appeared, holding in one hand and the black rider showing below it rods of high leather
boots gray. Man wearing a shirt with red tie, jacket and purple velvet
jacket, and graciously tipped his hat velvet calanes on the loops
of her hair.

Rode smoothly, despite the abundance of tasty visual
beauty and took the pole at the hands of a servant. Hello friends,
excusing his delay, while his eyes were going to Gallardo. The manager
gave her mare espolazo to approach and make presentation, but Dona
Sol, ahead of him, approached the bullfighter.

Gallardo was embarrassed
by the presence of the lady. What a woman! What would he say it? ...

He
saw that she held out her hand, a fine hand that smelled like heaven,
and precipitation Stunning, just squeeze its paw knew that overthrew
beasts. But the white zarpita and pink, rather than shrink under pressure
and brutal involuntary, which would have cast another cry of pain,
convulsed with vigorous effort, easily getting rid of this closure:

-
I really appreciate you coming. Nice to meet you. 

And Gallardo,
feeling in his dazzling the need to answer something, he stuttered,
as if you greet a fan:

- Grasias. Does the family Güena? ...

A slight
laugh Dona Sol was lost in the din of hoofs slipped on the rocks with
the first steps. The lady put his horse into a trot, and the whole
squad of horsemen followed, forming around her escort. Gallardo walked
embarrassed the tail, without leaving their amazement, realizing he
had said vaguely silly.

Galloped on the outskirts of Seville, along
the river left behind the Torre del Oro, followed avenues of shady
gardens with yellow sand, and then a road beside which alzábanse inns
and picnic areas.

Upon reaching Tablada on the verdant plains saw
a black mass of crowds and carriages next to the fence that separated
the pastures of the closed, inside which were the cattle.

The Guadalquivir
extended his current along the meadow. On the opposite bank stood
in San Juan de Aznalfarache costs, crowned by a ruined castle. The
cottages showed their whiteness among the masses of silver-gray olive
trees