 

Pepe, hearing this, stood in the middle of the sidewalk, looking at
his friend with the utmost curiosity.

- Yes, your lord brother.

Leocadia not shown me like before, not so expressive, and so loving ... has varied greatly, and
the move coincides with the arrival of Tirso, rather, with your mother gone to church. In a word,
fear and influenced Dona Manuela to read, try to get your sister does not want me ... We'll be
nasty ... What I know why!

- That to him what does he care? Why you be so disagreeable?

- You look stupid! Did not you heard? Do not you know I like you and your father? Did not you see
the look on his face the day of the discussion highlights the origin of the stones to portraits
the Pope? I seem to be healing, and its vehemence, has enough.

At least believe that the girl is in love with Pedro Botero of boilers.

-
Do you suppose that Leo has spoken against?

- I suspect not: I'm
sure, as if he had heard.

- And you found?

...

- A book you put in a bad mood: other me has made me understand what is happening. You know your
sister is always asking me books to read, and I took her novels a woman we will not give the legislative
library. Well, last Sunday, returning the penultimate volume of Notre Dame and one of Ivanhoe,
he said: - "Do not bring more Miller, now I can not distract me, I have a lot of work. "

- It is not true: two weeks ago that do not give work.

- So I realized
what was happening.

Soon, your father, not knowing that refused Leocadia to me to take what remained of Our Lady,
told me in front of your sister not I had a job, and she left the room at once. When we said
goodbye in the hallway The question that was due that and was evasive. In this came out of
his room Tirso and, as one is aware of what you hear try, I said :--«¿ to insist? Can not you
see that not read indecency? "

- What you say?

- For your brother and your home! Shut up and leave, but, I confess, I wanted to put him a
volume by the snout.

The least has figured the man who took the girl books wrong gender!

-
What an ass!

- Not the best.

It was the first time Leo and I parted well, slightly less than bothered, and I could not wait to
return on Monday. Do you remember that afternoon was the pretext test and was talking to her?

-
Go on: what did he say?

- Man, there are things that can not be explained point by point. You understand the difference
you there to be a loving woman, who exudes the satisfaction of being loved, to be cold, aloof,
and who does not care less about the man next to him.

- As one of two things: either you're wrong, and there is nothing
that suspicion, or is Tirso guilt, and in this case, no doubt in my
house is going to be more civil war in the North.

- Much I fear,
and about what we were talking, I think Leo is no longer for me.

-
Come with care.

Do you have any trouble, some wheeling and dealing that she has known for angry?

- No: word of honor.

- Well, since I put the record straight.

- I warn you one thing. I did not think the matter further formalize ... for lack of rooms; but since
things have been filmed, stating that your father and you can consider
me, if you like, and the house, you know? - and tended to Pepe's hand,
he warmly shook .-- Since you know, as is customary titles: I beg
the hand ...

- I promise we will leave doubts.

- What are you doing?

-
Soon I will be able, or clearing the situation.

In the first conversation you have with Tirso I remove the mask.

We'll see who has the upper hand!

Next step quickened, spreading to reach street near the keypad, where fired, leaving some hopeful
Millán offered intervention. Pepe entered its house on tiptoe, slowly opened, not to awaken
the sleepers, lit the candle Leocadia left to prevent a wing of the hall, he entered his room
and lay down, thinking about events and ideas that interested him, on suspicion that he felt
for his brother in the affection that had his parents and feared complications. Then, serenely mind,
he remembered the worsening peace and imagined note in his love. What would be the cause? Why
the girl raised in the present, far from convinced that this was crazy gave his promises more
strength and greater expression of sympathy from his eyes?

XVI

Tirso seeing the mother tended to his exhortations, not only
insisted on them, but tried to conquer the minds of Leocadia, sharpen
it necessary to be so cunning, as the difference in character between
Dona Manuela and her daughter asked for different tactics.

The first ceded by kindness and gentleness: it was habit bend to the will of others. As a young
man due to her husband erected after chief Pepe family by force of circumstances, got used to
looking at him as such, and was home giblets those of her daughter, showing all be born to
obey. Leocadia conditions were different: he had headstrong genius, but without lacking respect,
responding to their parents with integrity; in their whims poor girl, had always a certain obstinacy,
if he persisted in reform a suit, did not stop to turn the pieces of fabric, to achieve what
he wanted; liking styling, could not find peace until her hands got to learn how to make him,
and even in these small details, the tenacity of its resolutions, betrayed a very firm deploying
energy difficult to master. Tirso also noted that, in spite of its humble situation, the girl was
rather vain and was paid him, charging different Still, the eagerness to please, and as a latent desire,
but self-indulgent, to imitate clothing and customs of girls more favored by fortune. Never consented
to, for example, to make his brother blouses to work in print, and was constantly at the next
corner store with tissue in the head, Pepe wanted to see the best dress possible, and in their
costumes own, still struggling with lack of money for frills and frippery, always tried to
imitate elegant cuts. By not having them gold, had no outstanding ears and fingers without rings.
It was not demanding too expensive to ask what the efforts of their parents, but only accepted
poverty as an accident of his life, not as a condition of their origin. Willingly admitted Miller's
love, while this year with Pepe's career, but seeing her boyfriend had to leave the books and engage
in a trade, was for her very great disappointment. To continue his brother in college, perhaps soon
had sought to break relations with the printer, but seeing Pepe forced to do the same soon
after, realized Leocadia why could not reject Millán, and continued to accept his love, without
correspondence that actually paid it deserved the name of love. Perhaps for lack of background,
no Tirso was in a position to appreciate all this, but enough to convince reached that neither
Leocadia was truly in love, and cast off by the shameless Miller greed language called a proportion,
which allowed him to imagine that if the mother ceded by docility, vanity and self-esteem would
be good ways to subdue daughter. I would rather he take pity in their hearts with the vehemence
of zeal inflamed him, but he realized that he was forced to follow the maximum bend to the nature and
character of every sinner, to become more likely. Finally, many days talking to Dona Manuela,
determined to probe to Leocadia, and finding it an evening reading in the dining room, while
Don José rested and mother was out, approached, bringing him another book in hand.

- Know God - the said between severe and smiling - what tome that will be! Is it that brings
you the groom?

- Yes.

- Lovely role for a young man attempting readings harmful to the woman he wants, and good way to
love ... if you love!

- Why do you say that?

- Calm down, child,
calm down, no I mean, God forbid! that young do not wish, what strikes
me is that you love him.

- I think what I want!

- It seems in bad
kind, but what happens to your brother must be plagadito of ideas
now, and of those who do not believe in the light of day.

Ready, it will be, too bad office has so ugly!

- The of his father ... He began studying to be a lawyer, but then
the same thing happened to Pepe.

The word office rang in the ears of Tirso Leocadia as planned.

-
You will always be stuck between ordinary people, workers and laborers,
then they tune your ... but bad work is.

- But can you imagine that
Millan is a porter or serene? - "She said, laughing forcedly .-- I
wrong: it's a decent guy, like Pepe, who has to live well, working
as Pepe.

- No, daughter, and Pepe, no, our brother is the son of
a public official, the father of that young, if I heard correctly,
was a compositor, a laborer.

- Printer.

- Call it what you want.

Being old, was the owner of the printing press, but its origin can not be more humble. That does
not mean it is bad person, but, finally, why do you dislike we covet
for you the best?

Leocadia looked at his brother, surprised that and worry about their future.

- What I tell you - continued the priest - is that, so young, and
collecting terms Women are key to healthy prosperity, should not a
formal commitment lower man to you, because I do not deny it.

Position has perhaps better off than ours, but one thing is the welfare,
and another area of ??each.

Today, we have money, but not our parents or our grandparents were artisans. Believe me, Leocadia
do not commit yourself to anyone, and not give up your freedom of
action.

No you're born to women a laborer.

- Dale with journeyman! is an industry, we, a printer, but not a laborer.

- Bah! my dear: let us call things by their names.

Worker is only worker and if you marry him, God knows you have to go some day to take the food
basket as a bricklayer.

- So, according to you, I expect you to come and ask for my hand a
degree of Castile.

- Not at all: it seems that even a good guy, is
not justified to give up on it's what you reserve for the future.

Nobody knows what the future for a girl.

Tired Leocadia knew that after that problematic hope of future greatness, which Tirso real impetus
was the antipathy felt against Millan, since he met in politics and lack of religion coincided with
Pepe, but as these same arguments He claimed to be the ever own, succeed in putting pressure
on the heart. It seemed undeniable Millán goodness, but Tirso was partly right. The touch with
the people in the press had given his harsh frankness tinge, sometimes
bordering on rudeness, his feelings served honored coarse language
interpreter, to see something neat and composed, it was necessary
wait till Sunday: have not walked Tirso misguided and, in time, she
had to bring in the food basket, resigned to be a craftswoman, ie
the opposite type that of the girls, whose manners and clothes tried
to imitate.

At different times her sister did Tirso similar reasoning, and as the ground was well prepared,
the seed began to germinate.

It started the turn, the first thing he was to prevent often Millán
visits during the week, based on borrowing books: then came the scene
narrated by the lover scorned Pepe, which intervened Tirso and finally,
the girl so strongly stressed his indifference, the bridegroom almost
stopped deserve this name.

To be the love of deep-rooted passion Millán, had been striving to regain what they lost, but
he also beat a fund and exaggerated self-esteem, that was of greater
account of the pride that the baby .-- "Do not talk about this to
your sister - had told his friend - because the will is not imposed
or received anything for charity.

"

That was a very bad impression Pepe, but even more displeased to see the intervention demonstrated
the cure. The thing was out of doubt: after trying to seize the spirit of the mother, began to explore
various means of a daughter for the same purpose. What would their ulterior motives? Reasons
of personal convenience, apparently none. The only plausible that work was driven not only by
religious proselytizing, and in this case, to commit company in the peace and happiness of the family,
their fanaticism would be great. How risk, in any other way, promoting a rift between parents
and children, venturing the tranquility of home and the poor health of Don Jose, for only the lack
of compliance by the pious duties?

Pepe hated it so much, given his ideas that he could not be attributed to his brother so great blindness,
assuming that if only the zeal prompted him, had moderate affects more mundane but no less pure.
His understanding rejected the possibility that there man to embarrass their parents to give luster
to the religion. The nonchalance with which Millán Leocadia and began to look lost with this
significance in the eyes of Pepe: Her True concern was the conduct of Tirso, and came to dislike
so much that I threw his beloved Peace to see immediately.

* * * * *

First, a romantic spirit, typical of free-educated girl, she becomes infatuated to Peace with the love
of Pepe: later, when he came to understand how much he was worth, that tilt insensibly deepened
and, at the beginning was game of the imagination, came to be, the more natural, simple, sincere
and well-rooted love. The clerk, as she imagined her friends would call him if they should know, he
had entered the soul, persuading that he wanted because his face began to fear that his father would
know that, despite Democratic Posturing I used to do in Parliament. But this was not what most distress.
Their concern stemmed from disgruntled continually see Pepe, and the conviction of being in love
came out of that relationship he established his mind between the pity she felt and concern he
showed. When peace was made aware that, even ignoring the cause, despite saddened by her boyfriend,
when, unable weighed, felt a pain of others as their own, then noticed that his heart began
to reign a will different from his, and the man, only with loyalty and good faith, was taking over
his will slowly but probably as large river channel deepens the underpinning. Peace, apparently
frivolous, like anyone who has not suffered, but very clever, was persuaded early on that loved,
because his thoughts, far from intimidated to the obstacles that could love cause it was fixed
exclusively on the pain of the man he wanted.

       The first sample true passion was the sincerity with which he spoke.

One morning, being in the library of his father, who was where whenever he saw one missing from
there, "said Pepe, mild language and using its free, then more open than ever:

- I have to tell you something very serious.

- What?

- I made a discovery: you do not want me and I love you more than me contained.

- I do not understand.

- Clarito, son, that your love - will use this word, for greater solemnity, but you know that I
prefer to say love - well, your love is much warmer than mine.

- Let's see how it is shown that great lie.

- In a very simple way. I always pass that you are bored with being rich and you me poor, of course,
that does not offend me, pass the mania of celite, which makes no
sense common choke pass without coming three to four days in a row,
so you want to wait more ...

- No, for fear that your father guess
what happens.

- Let me finish, what is not happening, is that you
have trouble, you're sorry and I streets.

So silly me, that no good to say not a word of comfort?

- What does
this tenderness, my soul, with the discovery?

- Because nothing can
be more visible.

You, suffering and ocultándomelo, reveal a lack great confidence,
which is lack of love, and I, aquejerándome, as they say in Andalusia
for your book, I show love a thousand times.

- But where did you
get that I have trouble?

- That I was missing, add the pretense of
a lack of confidence.

Will not you tell me what's wrong?

Pepe, who preferred to talk only about their love, or had proposed
internal streets of home, said denying, and ended by telling Peace:

-
If you think it is mere curiosity, it displays the lips, but stating:
stay free to find out.

- Find out what pleases you, but love me a
lot.

The entrance of Don Luis cut dialogue

.