 And along with it
  another of the same who had responded to the Marquis, which said:
  he had understood everything, and that the appeal to he had questioned
  or denied the king of the land, was to with much greater confidence
  to ask the King of heaven, whose no appeal has to be private.
  Not be excused after possible to set on track for his poor health,
  and to be near death, and added that all mandates renewed above,
  and which required the PP. all the laws that could, but
  knew that everything had to be futile, as neither he or them
  to have control over so many free and so many will of the Indians:
  and if in his will in such a way were including the Indians, as
  in Adam, the their offspring, or at least as that of the PP. Missionaries,
  through holy obedience, I would not hesitate from effect, but being
  so, he did not expect anything, that Marques with his
  sharp trial to suggest that this mode with more effectively
  be enforced, or that requires the bishop, who walking on a
  visit in the immediate cities, to reach these nearby, and with his
  authority and gently persuade them. He so judged, and would
  be well, and what is more, the would ask to do so, releasing the
  afflicted people, they had no disability. Even after publication,
  not missed fights and movements, especially as PP compelled again.
  to leave the Indians, and to a withdrawal impossible.
  
  101. How are you so harsh words, no less than wicked and never
  expected, troubled them in the minds of the whole province, knowing
  them Indians, some insist, but other advised and encouraged the PP.,
surrendered and, for the Luisistas, Lorenzo and Santo Angel were loading
their things, especially when for the second time they came to the
other peoples letters of Captain General of the Army, in which (were
two) was the Indians with softness, calling siblings, friends, misled
by bad advice from a mood greedy and therefore did not believe that
to another but to him already their PP. had fallen from grace of the
King, which was a sign having repudiated his confessor, and that the
monarch would give hereafter many arguments on its severity: they
knew their good cheer and wanted to trust him, and that what egecutando
ready sent them, would improve their situation.

  
  
  102. With PP. however used threats, and exaggerated the killing,
  throwing the blame to them, for being so, that other times
  I got from the Indians all things, now interest both to the faith
  or real word, and his interests, were reluctant to hand over
  hand. Who had the hope get real clemency, if persuaded the Indians,
  and PP. same in person to come to him with the chiefs and councils
  exhausted and humiliated, because if they did so, then the egecutar
  point was to the contrary, seen and heard things.
  
  103. The Luisistas were the first to send heralds to Letters to
  the Captain General, in which they promised to were to move as they
  turned their captives, and notify them intended to land, which
  had sought in vain before.

  The Lorenza Legacia similar reused, but the sugetaban one
  apparently. The Santo Angel had already done it such a letter,
  and sent 20 men to Monte Grande, towards the village of San Javier,
  to have the road. But then disrupted all things by the obstinacy
  and suggestions other peoples, and because ten caciques de la Concepcion
  came here where we were. They regret to the Luisistas of their
  submission, and more a messenger who came back from Governor, who
  resented the face excessively seriously that was received,
  and to more than this, for not achieved should give them
  their fortunes, and most of all, because letter of response had not
been referred to the Indians, but the cure, and this amply dry and
tasteless.

  "This is not the response, they said, by which it is entering upon
  the clemency del Rey. Should be omitted that the priest with his
  parishioners come out humiliated, and suggested this be enough,
  envano expected, and have no other choice. "Insulted, therefore
  these things back to the old obstinacy, and so arranged new
  troops against the enemy, numbering 400.
 