 

"Her spirit rebelled against death, hiding the sharp pain of a maimed body, whose rearward palpitations
were extinguished in seconds. Try to lower the camera, but was unable to wrest the castle.
At last, yielding to our prayer, he realized it was necessary to leave the command. Called Moyna,
his second, and said he was dead; called the commander of the first battery, and this, though
severely wounded, went to the castle and took over the command.

"Since then the crew bailed: giant became dwarf disappeared value, and realized that it was essential
to surrender. The consternation that I was owned since I got in my arms the hero of San Juan,
I do not see the terrible prevented effect caused in the minds of all of this misfortune. As if
a sudden paralysis moral and physical crew had invaded and they were all frozen and mute, without
the pain caused by the loss of dear man gave rise to the embarrassment of surrender.

"Half the people were dead or wounded, most of the guns removed, the
masts, except the foremast had fallen, and the rudder was not working.

In so pitiful state, still wanted to make an effort to follow the Prince of Asturias, who had
raised the sign of withdrawal, but the Nepomuceno, mortally wounded, could not govern in any direction.
And despite the ruin and destruction of the ship, despite the dismay of the crew despite to
attend our damage such unfavorable circumstances, none of the six English ships dared to try an approach.
Feared for our ship, even after they quit.

"Churruca, in a paroxysm of his agony, he ordered the flag stick and
not to give the ship while he lived.

The period could not but be unfortunately very short, because Churruca was dying in a hurry,
and those who assisted him that asombrábamos we still encourage a body in such a state, and
was thus kept him strength of spirit, attached to irresistible commitment to life, because for him
at that time life was a duty. Did not lose consciousness until the final moments, did not complain of
pain or regret for his end was near; Rather, every effort was above all that the officers did not
know the severity your state, and any failure in its duty. He thanked the crew for their heroic
behavior, addressed some words to his brother Ruiz de Apodaca, and after dedicate a memorial to
his young wife, and raise the thoughts to God, whose name we hear softly spoken several times
by his dry lips, ended with the peace of just and the strength of heroes, without the satisfaction
of victory, but also without resentment of the defeated; involving the duty to dignity, and making
the discipline a religion as a military strong, serene as a man, without uttering a complaint,
or accuse anyone with such dignity in death as in life. We beheld his body still warm, and
we seemed to lie, we thought we had to wake up to send back, and we had to cry less fortitude
than he to die, for the expiry took all the courage, the whole enthusiasm that had inspired us.

"Rindiose
the San Juan, and when the officers boarded the six ships that had shattered, each intended for himself
the honor of receiving the sword of the dead brigadier. Everyone said, "has surrendered to my
ship," and played for a while claiming the honor of victory for either of the vessels belonged.
Commander wanted San Juan accidental decide the issue, saying which
of the English ships had surrendered, and he answered: "To all, which
one would never have given up the San Juan.

In the face of the corpse of the late Churruca, the English, who knew him by the fame of its
value and understanding, showed great distress, and one of them said this or something similar:

"Illustrious
Men like this should not be exposed to the hazards of combat, and other preserved for the advancement
of the science of navigation. "

After the funeral was arranged to make forming the British army and navy of the Spanish side,
and all their actions were Gentlemen, magnanimous and generous.

"The number of wounded on board the San Juan was so considerable that transported us to other own ships,
or prisoners. I happened to pass it, which has been among the most abused; but they have it can
be towed to Gibraltar before any other, because they can not be to
Trinidad, the largest and most coveted of our ships.

"

* * * * *

       Malespina ended here, which was heard with deep attention during the
story of what had witnessed.
