 

There are so many causes which impel them to Isaac to destroy his work, and death occur after
which the reader fails to identify which of them has been the most important, if unsuccessful
that the City has had his speech, if the censors, though severe, not entirely unfounded some of their
artwork, whether the separation of the Philippines, making it almost impossible be paid the monument
to Legazpi, if their great pecuniary distress, and, finally, if the insolent indifference
and disdain of his wife, painted on the novel by a master hand.

The intimate scenes of conjugal love so ragged, one in which her husband asks Marta you buy the
diamonds, and that happens in the garden at night, and in light of the moon are the best and
most clearly shown in Mr. Lasso the sharp talent of observation and
the rare power of expression and playing style to the observed.

The orgy of the council in the former convent, the lively description of the fire, with Calderón's
feat to save the girl, and the famous meeting of the council with all its details, and not a
few other episodes, are well observed and described, but complicates the action by giving various
reasons, each of which weakens the other rather than increase it. The reader asks: "Isaac had
committed suicide if it collects the money the monument to Legazpi, or had experienced better
with the money the disdain of his wife? If triumphs at City Hall and after the elections of deputies
would not have resigned to live? If the critics had been fair and very kind and had no defect
identified one in his works, extolling without objection, it was not his consolation and left
large thought effective to remove the violentísimo purpose of destroying
what he had done and then kill himself?

In real life, in every true historical event, are often left standing unsolved such doubts, but maybe
in a fiction novel, and when the author gets into the most intimate
the soul of his hero and there sees and searches all such uncertainties
and cloudiness undermine the effectiveness of the composition rather
than increased.

In short, I believe that after read the novel, the reader can not but recognize that Mr. Lasso is
a good novelist, but wishes to accumulate less stuff when you write another novel, and that
it represents human life, without being, or even without, who can
be their figures are true portraits of certain people, without containing
a charge each episode, and without every accusation leads to a defense.

The

nineteenth century has already passed, and we are on the twentieth of what we should be happy
for having passed also mania that spread among the writers, everywhere and for many years,
order to qualify for the rascalities century and evil. This also wanted to give understand
that such rascalities were like the refined product of centuries of effort an exquisite culture
and the sad result of our material progress. Far from being and it is understood that the men
to be bad and scoundrels have no need to live in late century, or very advanced age and society.
Regarding tunantería, known as need to know, and does what needs to be done from the earliest
times.

Not in Gandulia or late nineteenth century where the council are released
only to taste