 

LPA

POST.

1st ISSUE

Comments that are cited.

That the action taken by the government, establishing a post office in Manila, varying around
the way he had, without regard to that project is not new, to have been touched actual and real
damages that incurred by the Treasury and the neighborhood, and in a word that is not conducive,
or in any way advantageous that office as ordered set. All will be shown in the most simple
and clear, and if the reasons were expresses himself such that fixing the true point of view
that should be the question, clarified in a conclusively the disadvantage
of the new establishment of that office, and convenience that income
here and then continue as before with only the most accurate or necessary
reform, and by virtue of so agreed to, the silly venture to ensure
the gratitude of the inhabitants of such provisions and that their
work in this case would be just satisfied.

But before entering upon the esplanacion of the items listed, it is appropriate and should precede
a brief relation of state income post in the Philippines since its creation, and what annual
expenditure class has orijinado, to come out of here to deduce that under the look and feel
which has always had, has given the treasury income security, more or less, as most or less
competition for domestic vessels (only drivers of correspondence).

In view of this relationship, and comparing the old method with the mandate set Dec. 5 1837,
and will certainly at first sight the advantage of that on it.

Post income in the Philippines was established in 1762, but limited and restricted to only
mail overseas in national vessels. Captain General-was certainly born to judge this income, as superintendent
Gen. subdelegado, and the only administration was responsible to a neighbor of honesty and
trust, with only the allocation of 25 per 100 on everything it collects. This appointment was approved
by the office of general of Mexico, from which depended everything.

By this simple method is that if the rent for a year or more produced nothing, allegedly caused
either charge, and for every hundred dollars of production, entered the treasury seventy and five.

During
the domination of the Americas, the administrator of the Philippines surrendered to the accounts
general of Mexico, who was receiving orders and instructions, as well as the upper emanating
of the Peninsula. Emancipated the Americas, the postal authorities began to Manila deal directly
with the direction general of Madrid, and shortly after this time, he administrator in the
Philippines rose to a payment of three hundred dollars on account of house and a hundred weights
for a clerk, only rent costs, and guarantee that if you wanted but
their income, just add a controller to the percentage also was made
as you could wish for the safety of their funds.

The shipping of the cards, or the tariff of prices, have also been changes in different times,
and always in favor of progressive increase in income, then, that towards the end of rates last
century marked a weight per ounce, silver and two real strong for each card simple or not
to arrive half an ounce, and the day rate postage stamp twelve reales silver Deposit per ounce,
and four real simple letter idem idem, more on this there are no Why stop, the postage is paid
as ordered lately, and therefore no claim whatsoever. It follows that the rent for all their
annual expenses paid only 25 per 100 of administration, three hundred
dollars on account of house, and one hundred dollars for a clerk:
these data should not lose sight.

HE Islands ruling. D. Eurile Pascual, settled on land communications the entire island of Luzon
in 1833, directed the first line to the southern provinces by through a weekly email that out
of Manila on Wednesday at noon, arrived at the point its destination on Sunday morning, through
the provinces of Laguna, Batangas, Tayabas, Camarines and Albay, to Naga, capital or head (as there is said)
in the province Camarines Sur.

This point came out another email on Thursday, meeting in the way of correspondence from the
same provinces, came to Manila on Thursday morning.

That this communication was provided to establish a service of great importance, nobody doubt,
but it is also true that the correspondence of these five provinces was and always will so little bulk
and value, it does not deserve indicated.

Established and organized this line of communication, after a few obstacles to It opposed, formed
another to the north, passing through the provinces of Bulacan, Pampanga, Pangasinan, Ilocos
Sur, Ilocos Norte and Cagayan, with which communication was established weekly the entire island
of Luzon: more letters to this email no lien was imposed because very While the Manila government
knew that this e inside any profit could be drawn as that all correspondence
is reduced to leading a dozen letters from trade, and parts of the
mayors and other employees to their bosses, and nothing else.

So you see, that attention to the mail of land is not necessary that new office, because revenues
can not offset its establishment expenditure demand.

Budgets these records, which are the true story of the beginning and progress of rent post in Manila,
is for them that attention to the new internal mail is not necessary, as stated, the new office,
and with regard to maritime mail, not was of absolute necessity that reform was enacted, because
only advantage to tax to the treasury, and depriving him of income without the new spending
would have, because if you created an administrator with 35,000 rs., an auditor with 20.000, and
what do I know that other assignments by reason of home office expenses, is just that this administration
is not out of the General-competent number of junior and provincial banks, with managers, supervisors,
young guards, Balikh drivers, & c., but where do we go with this way of creating costs and nothing
else? Is possible that on an income that can not produce to keep the main office is wanted to
create such allocation and fixed salaries, when products are limited and temporary? and not
having, not say for sure, but even likely that their incomes rise, because no items for this: do
not be real and effective harm the public treasury? and is not be prudent, necessary and fair
to avoid it? seemed so regular, but the fact is that although on scarce and potential yields are
sent to establish the new office, with assignments fixed and wasteful, which does not say much
in harmony with the good and economic administration of public funds, because if they wanted
to reform the post office in the Philippines it means for employees have not been the best,
it should only be recognized by such those who set their administration and expenditure in
line with the performance, and cautious opportunity any harm that could act in any other way and
detract followed national interests. Not done so unfortunately the founding of the new office, and time
justified, if and to this date he has not established that it suffered
a serious mistake and harmful to national interests, as can be seen
as related.

Turning now to show that it is less damaging to trade and neighborhood Philippines reflections
are brought by the following reasoning.

It seems, according to come to understand that in theory, and to start the approval of this new
office, have included large new revenue to be given to income, for which it The main dock,
where all correspondence of any kind comes to the Philippines will
lead to mail and freight earned, wherever it comes from, with vessels
strangers then delivered the letters, then, and this is where you
find mainly the loss of that trade and neighborhood, as will be demonstrated.

The

application of the postmasters in the Philippines for all letters coming from abroad and on ships
of the same was taken to his office and earned behave like other conducted by Spanish vessels
is not new, and even had to request transport manager double, but this is not the case: the
fact is that since the Philippines began to mail regularized, administrators did all the pretension
to his income above, having put more than once in execution, and always has been withdrawn: that has
been otherwise? no reach another reason to bring in response, but the effect on trade was
effective, if it were not so, the measure was adopted and had continued when he came to be established;
The opposite has happened, then the consequence is lejítima, which was harmful and costly trade. About
it is more than one expedient, that are brought to the hearing and review, and will be the
just reasons for the trade nswers Manila to resist such determination; resistance was always
greeted and approved by the Government. Among them will be found that in August 1797 in Manila espidió
a decree preventing any new development was not done in particular, and then repeated at different
times so; but more especially in 1819 it was agreed by that government, after hearing the
prosecutor and counsel gentlemen, and voting top advisory board of finance, innovation certainly cease
to be had fact lead to mail correspondence from foreign countries and ships same class and national
came to the islands, observing the practice up there soon, As warned in the superior decree
of August 16, 1797, all as requested Manila by several neighbors and members of the consulate.

This
exposition, in her view of the fiscal relapse of MS, opinion of counsel, an advisory vote
the superior board of finance, and decree provided on their agreement, all this justifies that
about not being of great use to the Treasury this discretion, is
harmful to one extremity trade.

Also brought to this place deserves the report of the Manila consulate February 5, 1833, in which
indicates "who brought the serious difficulties and the novelty had
said, and actual damages that would be born new trade by the lien
being imposed, and little astray safe unless their replies to the
correspondence they received.

"

Lately, in this particular must occupy a preferred place Government consultation Manila July
17, 1834 and the reasons supporting it, because in addition to the
visible damage irrogaria which to trade, trade adds that taxed abroad,
this could make same with ours, as has already happened, if that refers
to the same query.

Now Well, if these thoughts, but Thin, documents taken from blameless, and may not be reproof
of suspects, such as the above, addressed to Spain on the decision in Philippines by those authorities
in the expedients of the model, prove the actual damage of that trade, and the disadvantages that
are pressed to give that income to rent, single that can be counted for promotion, "to which
we abide, not venturing anything to avoid errors and exposes the interest income? What data may
be the most luminous certainty and to reform, albeit in a small establishment, and if possible give
greater expanse and promote their income, or at least keep those who have? and what reasons
more weight may be the case, and that from Manila have been established with knowledge of which
is the country and accredited by a constant practice experience, or those who in theory have
been able to devise and propose in Madrid? Anyone will be judged impartially by first, because
the esperiencia at all times and ages has been said and they say, is the teacher, the standard
and best rule, almost infallible, of making reforms in all probability, not that certainty, the
happy results and ensure success in everything that theories to step Always have damaged,
and some restitution impossible. Had this been present what is said and documents cited, perhaps
the reform would have done otherwise, and as exijian income needs, without taxing so strong as
it was.

In conclusion should not be spared to bring this place another reflection of no less weight to
purpose behind these observations. This is that if you look at the establishment of the new office
as a new duty, tax or contribution, it appears nothing according to the fundamental law for having
verified without knowledge and disposition of the courts, only they
can agree taxes, remove the set, and create again, according to the
needs of the state, then when that was done and the Constitution vijente
Reji.

The Philippines has never been regulated the communication inside the country, and less correspondence
with the stranger in his own ships, trade, the neighbors all looked on their Manila means to establish
and maintain their communities and in the interior and abroad, and though interrupted, and sometimes
far behind, is very accommodating as best they could.

Was established later, as we have said, that government by constant communication throughout week the mainland
of the island of Luzon, but not to tax it to anyone, and without care for it to make any profit
because the government knew what I could negligible and insignificant be, and so established the internal
mail weekly in both lines in a disinterested this cooperation to all classes of authority, from the
captain to the last General-mayor, without forgetting the mayors, who weighed on the main care
and responsibility as they were in charge of exercising the functions of case managers, pick
and giving direction, and distributing correspondence. All, therefore, cooperate with zeal
and disinterestedness the achievement of establishing the weekly communication, so useful and
advantageous for many titles the government and trade. Now if that communication in such an established Power
generator, the gravel is now with the poise that point to each letter rate that is established,
when all you can produce is so insignificant, is not therefore that such a measure to cause trouble?
Is not easy to form the idea and create some that this is to establish a tax, whose name alone could
be sufficient to produce sponge concerns the public tranquility? therefore, mean that interest
should be postponed to the desire to keep the public peace as unalterable as it always has
been, and therefore should be terminated is not reached for reform as it was agreed and ordered,
by contrary and burdensome to the national interests and damaging to trade and other inhabitants
of those islands.

ADDENDUM: should show those who say that not having an accurate knowledge bases about what is left
for the reform, and data that could support the establishment of the new office which was sent,
not having seen the expedient of reference should not be judged reluctance of malicious interpretation
or any inaccuracy in the observations notare made, to which it moved
only a desire to contribute to the better resolution and accuracy
in the most economical administration of the interest income of as
little product and performance and seek to trade and the Philippines
neighborhood relief or tax burden to be imposed, according to which
all came to learn from what we saw on this question in reporters on
his arrival at Madrid, and whose articles, as conducive to illustrate
these ideas, copied below.

Eco Trade on Tuesday December 26, 1837 moved the following observations.

A subscriber asks us to give rise to the following lines.

It says, although with Sijil that réjimen and administration for the miserable post income of
the Philippines has created a great office and made a pompous boasting advantages regulation
that time and events the imajinarias denounce, and warned that without observing the in the recent
Royal orders dated by the Ministry of Interior to send publish vacancies,
have been named two favorites, one with 35,000 rs. annual salary and
6,000 for home and another with 20,000.

There is no reason for hiding, and if history should demonstrate that since the mid last century have
rejido the field, subject, gentlemen publishers that vds. will serve illustrate the point, because
having to preside over the most severe economy in the administration of state revenues, the
allocation and repugnant consequences on low fixed salary Any products, and clashes with the
administration of that system, that even when erect In happier times long gone under the eventual
character that was, and never enjoyed their managers, nor should
enjoy another salary that the percentage of performance.

If you are certain advantages to be favorites to get appointed as an effect of communications
results promised to be open, why not have the same concept is the administrator to whom they
are going to rob, but its merits and the progress that has been rent?

Hardly gave rules for the administration of post Manila towards the year 1762 under the dependence
of the principal of Mexico, began to touch the serious difficulties offered its establishment
in 1767.