 I planned to spend this evening at the
palace Visit Donna to ask about his health.

- Shut up, fool, I've
never felt better, especially since this morning.

The slap I have given to "those" not attending to the choir with them, grazed my not put me
in a great mood. For the record my best intentions, I have come to see you. Please know that I'm fine,
what the disease is not true. That they know everyone in Toledo that the archbishop does not
see its canons, and this makes for dignity, not for pride, because while low to see his old
friend the gardener.

And the fearsome big man laughed like a child to think about the disappointment that this visit
could give the town hall.

- And, believe me, Tomasa - continued
- I come to you only as a convenience, this afternoon was upset in
the palace, I was bored.

Visitation busy walking with some friends in Madrid and I have felt that arrechucho that gives
me time to time to reminisce. Felt need see you, and I thought well in the garden of the cathedral
is always fresh. Outta here Heat oven makes ... Oh, Thomas, how strong I see! So thin and so quick,
you keep better than me. You're not wrapped in fat as this sinner, or have medical conditions
that bitter tea night. Your hair is still almost black, well-preserved teeth, no need, as This cardinal,
wearing a device in the mouth .... But anyway, Tomasa, you old like me. We have a few years of
life, much as the Lord would preserve us. Who could return to those days when up to your house
with the red sotanita, seeking your father, the sexton, and I took off for lunch! Hey, Tomasa
...?

The two old men, ignoring the social differences, with the resignation
of fraternity beings who walk to death, they remembered the past.

Everything was the same as in childhood: the garden, the cloister, the cathedral had not changed.

His
Eminence, closing his eyes, he still believed the acolyte Naughty half century earlier. The
spiral blue drag of his cigarette seemed his mind by the endless
riots past.

- Do you remember how fun of me your poor father?

"This boy - said in the sacristy - it a Sixto V. "What will you be?" I asked. And I said the same
thing: "Archbishop of Toledo. "And some that mocked the good sexton of the confidence with which
I spoke of my claims!

When I was consecrated bishop, he believes, Tomasa, I remembered a lot from him, feeling that he
had died. Would have enjoyed seeing his tears of joy to contemplate with the miter in the head
.... I have always loved, you are an excellent family, and many times you killed me hunger.

-
Calle, sir, street and remember those things. I am that I have to thank it so good, so llanote, despite
its category, which is almost in the back of Pope .... And the truth is - said the old with the
arrogance of his candor - which loses nothing that way. Friends like me you will not have any. You
do not surround more than sycophants and crooks, as all the great
land.

If it had been a priest for Mass and pot, no one would look face, but Thomas would continue
to be their friend, always ready to do a service. If you want both, it is because you are simple
and friendly. If you spend pride, like other bishops, would kiss the ring and hasta la vista!
The cardinal in his palace and the gardener in your garden.

The bishop welcomed with smiles energetic openness of the good woman.

- You will always be Don Sebastian for me - continued -.

When he told me not to call him Eminence and all those treatments
that gives people, I thanked him more than if I had given the mantle
of the Virgin del Sagrario.

It choked me further treatment, I wanted to scream: "But what Eminence truncheon and Grace, if we
scratched small thousand times, because thief saw this great crust and apricot in my hands
that I would not scoff! " Thanks I talk to you since I saw him benefited from the cathedral, as
a priest is not well tutearle as an acolyte.

The two old men were silent. His eyes wandered around the garden with some tenderness, as if each
tree or foliage covered arcade find a souvenir.

Do you know what now comes to my memory? - Said Tomasa -. Then again I remember we met here
in this garden, a whopping years ago: the least forty-eight or fifty. I was with my poor sister,
who had just married the gardener Luna. Walked through the cloister which was then hovering around
my husband. Vi enter a beautiful arbor soldadote, a sergeant, with a great noise of spurs, the Shiv
arm and a helmet with a tail like the Jews of the Monument. Were you, Don Sebastian, who had come
to Toledo see his uncle, the beneficiary, and would not leave without visiting his friend Tomasita.
And what you were cute! It's the truth I do not mean flatter. You had a rogue air for Girls!
I even remember that I said something about how beautiful and fresh that I was after years of
absence. You do not feel bad to remember, right? Were chicoleos soldier. So many say then!
When it was you, my brother said: "This has hung habits forever, it is useless to his uncle,
the priest wants to do it benefited. "

- It was a folly of youth - said the Cardinal, smiling with pride recalling the arrogant Sgt dragons
-. In Spain there are only three races worthy of man of the sword, of the Church or the toga.
My blood boiled, and I wanted to be a soldier, but had the misfortune to catch peacetime. My career
had been slow, and not bitter in recent years my uncle, I followed your advice and return to
school, returning to the Church. In one place and in another it can not serve God and country,
but believes that many times, with all my cardinal in tow, I think with envy that you saw military.
What times so happy! Even I pulled the sword. When I see the cadets would change comfortable
with any of them, giving them my staff and my cross. Doing so and maybe better than all of them! Ah!
Who should they be returned time of the Reconquista, in which the prelates went to kill Moors!
What a great Archbishop of Toledo had made me ...!

And Don Sebastian stood his old body fat, stretching his arms with the arrogance of the last
remnants of his force.

- You have always been men - said the gardener -. I tell you many times a certain bandages do
they talk about you, criticizing him for if patatin or potatoes. "Do not play with you His Eminence,
who is very able to get a day in the choir, and I want and it does
not, remove them slap everyone to clean.

"

- More than once I've been tempted to do so - said the prelate firmly, shining in their eyes
a spark of energy -. But I stopped considering my position and my character peaceful priest. I
am pastor of the Catholic flock, not a wolf that frightens the sheep
with fierceness.

But sometimes one can not more, and God forgive me! I've been tempted to raise the staff to
start a fight with the rebel who flock shelter in the cathedral.

The prelate excitábase talking about his struggles with the council.

The calmness of spirit that provided the tranquility of the garden disappeared hostile to remind
their subordinates. Needed, as usual, confide his sorrows to the gardener, with that instinctive
benevolence that drives the big to cross with the humble.

- You do not know, Tomasa, which these men make me suffer. I am the master because master, because
I owe obedience under the discipline, without which there would be no Church or religion, and
I resist and disobey me. My orders are complied reluctantly and when I want to impose, to the
last priest comes out with what he calls his rights, and makes me litigation, and go to the
Rota and Rome if necessary. Let's see: I am the master or am I not? Is it discusses the shepherd
with his sheep and consultation to guide them in the right direction ...? I dizzy and stunned
with their disputes and issues.

There is no middle man between them, they are all gossips and cowardly. In my presence with
downcast eyes, smile and praise to His Eminence and just turn my
back, they are snakes who try to bite, scorpion than anything language
respect ... Oh, Thomas!

My daughter! Hold me sorry! Cree when I think I get it very sick.

And the prelate paled, leaving his seat with painful gesture, as if his bowels moved by intense
throbbing.

- Pay no attention - said the gardener -. You are above all, you win.

- Of course I shall overcome, because not so! Be the first time that it is below. These wives'
tricks annoy me slightly. I know that eventually I will see my feet to the repugnant enemies.
But their languages, Tomasa! What they say about things I love most in the world! This is what
hurts me, what kills me.

He sat down again, closer to the gardener to speak quietly,

- You know my past better than anyone I've told you because you inspire great confidence. Besides,
you are ready, and I guess you do not know.

Visitation know what is for me and certainly not ignore what these wretches say about it.
Do not play dumb: the You know, all in the cathedral and even outside
these slanders they hear and believe.

You you're the one that you can not believe them, because you know the truth ... But alas, I can
not quite say it, I can not cry: me prevent these habits.

And grab a handful of his cassock with clenched fingers, as if to tear it.

It took a long silence. Don Sebastian looked down with hard eyes, contracting his hands as if to
catch the invisible enemy. Occasionally felt pangs of their illness and sighed painfully.

- Why think about such things? - Said the gardener -. It makes you bad, and this is not was
necessary to bother coming down to me. Best had been staying at the palace.

- No, you distracted me, find some comfort communicating my sorrows. Up there, I despair alone, having
to make efforts to swallow the rage. I do not want them to know my family they would be able to laugh,
do not want you to know anything my poor Visitation ... And I do not know disguise!, I can not fake
joy when I'm angry ...! What the hell I suffer! Unable to say I've been a man, I've been weak,
as I am made of flesh, and I carry the fruits of my fault, not wanting to part with them even
slander after me! Each work as she is, and I want to be good in the midst of my sins. I could
have separated from my children have abandoned them, as others to maintain their reputation
of saints, but I am a man, I am proud of it: a man with his faults
and virtues, no more nor less the generality of humans.

The feeling of parenthood is so ingrained in me, so deep, you lose before the miter to leave
my children. And remember how I got when Juanito's father died, was going through my nephew. I
thought he died. A beautiful big man and a future so bright! I had made judge, Chief Justice
minister I do not know! And in twenty-four hours I die, as if heaven would punish me. True
I have left my grandchild, but that Juanito in no way resembles his father, and I confess: I I bit, I
do not see it but a distant reflection of my poor child. In my past, that time that was the happiest
of my life, I can only Visitation. A portrait of the poor dead, I love it! And that this petty
rabble me that the mob with their slander ... There to kill them!

Dominated by the fond memories of the spring which had flourished in its early years bishop in
a diocese there Andalusian Tomasa repeated once more, his relations
with certain devout lady felt since childhood horror to the world.

Devotion had gathered, but life does not soon recover its rights, breaking through in their
relationship almost mystical uniting them in carnal embrace. They had lived faithful to each other
in the mystery of church life, loving wisely scrupulous, without the secret of their relationship
transcended the public, until she died, leaving two children. Don Sebastian, a man of strong passions,
I felt parenthood to the vehemence.

Those two things were the image of the poor dead, the I remember
the one romance of a life entirely devoted to ambition.

Calumnies circulating enemies, rooted in the presence of his daughter in the archbishop's
palace, he put like crazy.

- The think my dear! - Said in a tone angry -. My poor Visitation, so good, so affectionate,
so tame for all converted into any one of these wretches! A lover I've taken my fun for the
College of noble maidens ...! As if I, old and sick, was to think about that crap! Indecent
...!, miserable ...! For less committed many crimes ...!

- Let them say, God is high and sees us all.

- I know, but this is not enough to reassure me. You have children, Tomasa, and you know what
love them. Not only hurts us what you do against them, but what you say ... Which days I've been
suffering! As a child you know that my dream was to become what I am. Looking the throne of the
chorus and thought how good it would be him in the immense joy of
being Prince of the Church.

Well, I'm on the throne. I walked half a century away stones, leaving
the skin and even the meat in the bushes of the hill.

I know how I black mass exit and get to Bishop! Then ... Archbishop am already!, And I am
a cardinal!, I can not get more! So what? Happiness always march ahead of us, as bright cloud
guided the Israelites. We see, almost touch, but not get caught. I now feel more unhappy than
at the time struggling to be something and I thought the most unfortunate men. I have no youth:
the height where I am, look at me all the looks, prevents me defend myself. Oh, Thomas! Pity me,
I'm pitiful. Being a parent, and having conceal a crime! Wanting my daughter with a love that
grows more and more as death approaches, and having to suffer people to take this love so
pure for something disgusting ...!

And the dreadful sight of Sebastian, which frightened the whole diocese, hazy with tears.

- Also, I have other pains - continued - but are farsighted man who fears the future. When I die,
all I have is for my daughter. Juanito has about his mother, who was rich, and has a career and
support my friends. Visitation will be powerful. You know that, my adversaries reproach me what
they call my greed. Greedy, no: proactive, welfare lover of mine.

I saved a lot, I'm not handing out the bread at the door of his palace, nor seek celebrity for
charity.

I have pastures in Extremadura, many vineyards in La Mancha, houses, and especially the role
of the state, a lot of paper. As good Spanish I want to help the government with my money, especially
as this produces a profit. I do not know certainly what I have: will be twenty million reais,
maybe more. All saved for me increased with good business. I can not complain of fate, the Lord
has helped me. And all Visitation for my poor! My joy would see her married to a good man,
but she does not want leave me. You like the church, and this is my fear. Do not be surprised,
Tomasa, I, Prince of the Church, I shudder to see how it comes to devotion, and do all I can to
deflect it. I like the religious woman, devoted not only found it in the church. Women must live,
must enjoy and be a mother. I've always looked bad to the nuns.

- Leave it, sir - said the gardener -. No wonder you like the church. Mode as live, can not have
other hobbies.

- For today, I fear no evil. I am at your side, and I care not who likes dealing with nuns.
But I can die tomorrow, and just imagine how great the poor bite will visit with his millions,
alone, and with this love of religious life which others can exploit
ready ...!

I seen a lot, I'm in class and I'm in the secret. There is no shortage religious orders engaged
hunting for inheritance, for the greater glory of God, they say. In addition, those out there
foreign nuns of great coif, who are lynxes for this kind of work. It terrifies me thinking
about my daughter falling.

I'm from the old Catholicism, of that religion net Spanish: Castilian Catholicism, as they say
in panllevar, clean Aliens modern.

It would be sad to have spent my life saving, to fatten the Jesuits or those sisters who can
not speak in Castilian. I want my money not suffer the same fate The sexton of the adagio. Therefore,
the troubles of my fight with the enemy mob joins the pain it causes the weak character of
my daughter. Perhaps the hunt, and a rascal is fun of me taking over my money.

And excited by his dark thoughts, gave a pure and obscene interjection, I remember of his time
as a soldier. In the presence of the gardener, had no reason to hold back. The old was used
to the outbursts of his character.

- Let's see - he said desperately, after a long silence -.

You know me better nobody: I'm as bad as supposed enemies? Do I deserve that God will punish me
for my faults?

You are a good soul, simple and good, and you know more about this with your instinct all doctors
in Theology.

- Do you mean, Mr. Sebastian? Jesus ...! You are a man like any other, neither more nor less.
Perhaps better than most, it is simple, all in one piece, without deception or hypocrisy.

- A man: You have said. I am a man like everyone else. We reach a certain height we are like
saints in the church facades. Below, are admired for their beauty, viewed closely, a horror by the
ugliness of the stone gnawed by time. As much as we try to sanctify us, putting us at a distance,
we are but men weak flesh beings to those around us. In the church are few and those get rid
of human passions. And who knows if even those few do not feel privileged bitten by the demon
of vanity, and the extreme asceticism of his life, they think seen the glory of the altars ...!
The priest who manages to dominate the meat falls into greed, which
is the ecclesiastic service excellence.

I've never treasured by service, I have saved for mine, never for me.

The prelate was silent a long time, but in his irresistible desire to confess to the simple woman
continued

- I'm sure God will not despise me when my time comes. His infinite mercy is above all the littleness
of life. What is my crime? Having loved a woman as my father loved my mother, have children,
as were apostles and saints. So what? The ecclesiastical celibacy is an invention of men, a detail
of agreed discipline councils, but the flesh and their demands are
many centuries earlier, dating from Paradise.

Whoever breaks this barrier, not vice, but irresistible passion,
because it can not overcome the impulse to create a family and have
a companion, that certainly needed to Church law, but disobeys God
.... Approaching death, I have fear.

Many nights doubt and tremble like a child .... I have served God in my way. At other times he
had defended with the sword, fighting heretics, now I'm your priest,
and He battled every time I see the wickedness of the times curtail
some of its glory.

The Lord forgive me, receiving me in his bosom. You who are so good, Tomasa, and you have a soul
of an angel under your bark rough, do not you think so ...?

The gardener smiled, and his words pierced the silence slowly dying afternoon.

- Calm down, Mr. Sebastian. I have seen many saints in this house worth less than you. To ensure
their salvation had abandoned the children. To maintain what they call the purity of the soul
would have denied the family. Believe you me, come here not saints;
men, all men.

No regret having followed the impulse of the heart. God made us in His image and likeness, and
gave us some sense of the family. Moreover, chastity, celibacy and other trifles, which you invented
to distinguish from ordinary people. Whether you are a man, Don Sebastian, the more it is, will
be more good and better will welcome the Lord in his glory.

IX

Corpus few days after a morning Don Antolin was in search of Gabriel. Silver Stick Luna smiled,
talking with a patronizing air.

He had thought about him all night. It hurt him inactive, walking in the cloister. Lack occupation
was what inspired those ideas as evil.

- Let's see - he said -: "I should be down with me every evening at the Cathedral to teach Treasury
and other treasures? Many foreigners come to understand only if left when asked. You know its
language, know the French, I do not know how many languages more, according to your brother. The
cathedral may prove to win a lot of these foreign having an interpreter available, you'd do
us a favor and do not lose anything. Always is entertainment to see new faces. As a reward ....

Don
Antolin stop there, scratching his head under the bonnet. Would be to scratch something of funds
Obrería, if it was not possible at first, being weak and drained income of the Primacy, as
would be provided later. And waited with anxious eyes the answer Gabriel. He showed himself satisfied.
At the end was a guest of the cathedral, and something should. And since that afternoon down
to the temple choir when to teach foreign riches of the church.

Never missing passengers, displaying color confetti Don Antolin, expected Time to admire the
jewelry. Silver Stick not seen a foreigner who does not imagine I was a lord or a duke, wondering
many times their clumsiness in dress. For him, only the great of the earth could afford the pleasure
of traveling, and opened some eyes shocked and incredulous when Gabriel
said that many of these people were shoemakers in London or Paris
shopkeepers were given in the holiday gift of a trip by former country
of the Moors.

The ships moved through five canons to surplices chorus,
each with a key hand. They were the guardians of the Treasury. Opened
every lock in their custody, heavily spun and left the door open the
chapel with its ancient treasures. In large displays, like a museum,
displaying the old opulence of the cathedral silver images massive,
huge balloons topped by graceful figurines, all of precious metal;
chests complicated task ivory, gold and virile custody; huge golden
plates and embossed, mythological scenes came back to life the joy
of paganism in that sordid spot dusty Christian church. Gemstones
extended their range of colors pectoral turbans and robes of the Virgin.
Diamonds were so huge that cast doubt on its authenticity, pebble-sized
emeralds, amethysts, topaz and pearls, many pearls, hundreds, thousands,
dropping like hail on the garments of the Virgin, The strangers were
astonished before this opulence, dazzled by its sheer size, while
Gabriel, accustomed to visiting Daily, I looked around coldly. The
Treasury had an air of sad disrepair. Riches had aged with the cathedral.
The shining diamonds, gold seemed tarnished and dusty, The blackened
silver, pearls were dull and dead