 Stroke of genius.

If the understanding is that it can behave himself, if an examination of the works of great writers,
he is hard to imitate, and among them, not pygmy among giants, but as among their peers, then the
method of invention suits in a particular way, then it should be limited to know the books, he
must know things, not content with following the beaten path, but must seek paths you get along
better, straighter, and if possible to peak. Do not admit idea unanalyzed or proposition without question,
without examining or thinking, or rule unchecked, be formed a science itself, which it owns
as his blood, which is not a simple recitation of what have read, but the fruit of what he has
observed and thought.

What rules should be present? Those that have been identified above for all thinkers. Going
into details would be futile and perhaps impossible, that efforts to trace the genius a fixed
gear is no less reckless than hold the animated face expressions the petty circle of compassionate
gestures. When you see him boost his huge rush career, not words Turn then dull, sterile or advice,
and no rules have not observed; just tell him: "Image of the Deity, march to meet the targets
that you noted the Creator, do not forget your beginning and your end, you take flight and do
not know where you, raises his eyes to heaven, Just ask your Maker. He will show his will stick
to it faithfully comply are encrypted in your grandeur and glory
[18].

"

CHAPTER XIX.

Understanding, heart and imagination.

ยง I.

Discretion in the exercise of the powers of the soul. Queen Dido.
Alejandro.

I said (Chapter XII) that to know the truth in certain
matters, it was necessary to deploy same time to different faculties
of the soul, and between them I had the feeling. Now add that while
this is necessary when dealing with those truths, the nature consists
of relations with that feeling, like everything beautiful or tender,
or sad or sublime, not when the truth belongs to a different computer
that has nothing to do with our ability to feel