 Cutting then
you stout and secular pines and cedars of Lebanon, making them carry on shoulders of the strongest
men of the defeated nations, as the Rephaim, for example, insolent race of giants, almost barking
instead of talking, and locking each other logs art and skill, Solomon did build floating castle
that withstood the blast of the hurricanes and the fury of the waves. In the desert, Solomon
was founded in Tadmor, famous after the name of Palmyra, an oasis filled with palms, so that was
rich emporium and resting place for caravans going from the banks of the Euphrates Jordan and the Tigris,
Damascus, Nineveh and Babylon. I was finally interested in Solomon Phoenician trade with Tarshish
or Iberia Mutileder homeland, and even beyond to the North West and the world, far beyond,
because the ships came to Tyrian Baltic. For all of which ebbed over Jerusalem as God created
for temporal goods. The Silver was so common that was viewed with contempt. Everything was made
of pure gold, to Tackle kitchen. Came perfumes of Arabia, of Egypt, linen, horses and chariots
black slaves and ivory, Nubia, and spices and sandalwood, and pearls, and diamonds Jimi and
parrots and peacocks, and cotton and silk, beyond the mouth Indus. Gold came from everywhere,
and in Tibar, and Ofir, amber and tin, North Europe, copper and iron from Spain. Thus abundant
especially in Jerusalem. The fame of King flying around the world, because the king exceeded the
other kings, have or might have, in science and wealth, and no person of good taste who does
not wish to see his face, and especially the children of Israel, whom the respected and feared
foreign nations, where they lived calm them and fortunate, in the shadow of the vines and her
fig trees, from Dan to Beersheba, all the days of his reign.

For, as we were saying, to this splendid city of Jerusalem was our bermejino prehistoric accompanied
by his guide, but more confident in his fiery club and the gorgeous
deep that Echeloría had given, and which, as they say, no bread is
baked until avenge his first love, broken pate the abductor of a violent
and unjust accurate stone.
