 Le blame
the death of Captain Tonda.

- So that's how you say! So I am the most unhappy woman who treads
the world!

Alas, without having harmed anyone all fall on me!

- Do not cry, nor regret, girl. Although the cause of our misfortunes, his grace is innocent no
fault.

- How should I not mourn and grieve, if pursued after me unjustly,
made of stone scandal of women in this house, harass me with your
questions and nonsense, for auction has been you, it says I grew up,
and I reproach the misfortunes of you and her husband?

Is there more unhappiness than mine?

- When I told him my story, woven with that of his mercy, will be
convinced that I have a lot reason.

- But who are you?

- My name
is Maria de Regla, humble servant of his grace, Leonardo Gamboa child
slave.

- Ah!

Cecilia said standing up and hugging her interlocutor.

- Listen! said it with feeling. The child recognizes and embraces me as a child slave Leonardo not
the mother's milk as I am of his mercy.

- No, I embrace both reasons, especially since his coming is a bringer of salvation for me.

The
black crossed his arms and began to contemplate Cecilia face to face. From time to time murmured
in a low tone: See you! The same front! The same nose! The same mouth! The same eyes! Even the
dimple in his beard!

Yes, her hair, her body, her air, her own angel!

What!

His very image!

- Who? asked Cecilia.

- In my daughter Adela.

- Who is this girl?

- Milk My other daughter, sister, father and
mother of the child Leonardo.

- "So much I look like her?

That's what I had told some friends who know her view.

- And say that it seems. Not be more like twins. Could it be because the child why Leonardo is
so enamored of his mercy? But he sins and sin to want to worship as they want. If you would
like as friends or brothers, go, as a man and woman is a sin. Both are in mortal sin.

- Why did you say that? Cecilia asked, surprised.

In loving a man and a much woman, I do not know who has sinned.

- Yes, there, child, sometimes you have to sin tight.

On the one hand, he is white, but within Soon it will be of blue
blood, because his father is the Count of Casa Gamboa.

And he has a palace to live with that is to be his lawful wife. And
his mercy ... Sorry, girl, that is so clariosa.

His mercy is poor, has no drop of blue blood and a daughter ... of
the Creche.

You can not be left to marry his mercy.

- Everything is to be put on the head.

A good man he is and does what he wants.

And although no, I'm sure the word that has given me.

- You can not fulfill it, girl.

Undeceive, yet still can not fulfill.

- Why not?

- Why not.

In time you will know their mercy. That marriage is a dream, are not checked ...

- Then you are opposed. I do not understand why.

- I am not opposed, my child. Not me who is opposed, is another, that's nature are the laws divine
and human. It would be a sacrilege ... But what do I say? At least it is too late. Tell me,
girl, what's in your eyes?

- I have nothing in their eyes, "said Cecilia scrubbing innocently.

- Yes, I see something in them that is a bad sign. I think that has yellow eyeball. No doubt. These
circles, the pallor, the face distorted ... Poor thing! His mercy is sick.

- I sick!

No, no, she said a hurry.

- His mercy and Leonardo child is female.

- Do not understand what you said.

- Have you ever felt your mercy nausea? So as a desire to be provocative?

- Yes, several times. More often since I'm in this house.

I attribute that to the shocks and sorrows my unjust imprisonment.

- Tate. Some are the bulls. Did not I? The cause of the illness of his worship is another. I know,
the soothsayer. Do not know the girl I've been a nurse for many years? What am married? There
is no healing. None ... Poor girl! Innocent! Unhappy! In his mercy has made much damage that
face so beautiful that God has given. If your worship had been born ugly, perhaps does not
matter what happens now. Would be free and be happy. More ... which has no cure, is best forgotten.
Finally, tell the child Leonardo the status of your mercy and safety pin that rush to get
the girl in this damn house.

Leonardo Gamboa strongly affected the latest news that Cecilia brought
the slave.

Without loss of time, as he had intended it, he focused with his classmate and friend Mayor,
who had decreed the arbitrary order of imprisonment, to which he claimed those titles, along
with this circumstance. He also revealed the delicate state secret the girl. Spilled all over
the gold with both hands and had the ineffable satisfaction to see
their efforts crowned with success all the way over the last days
of the month April.

Cecilia went to his place, despite fierce opposition from his father. Led prison the house they
had rented in the Rue des Dames, by giving cook, servant trust and owner of Mary always rule. It
seemed there was not the happiest man on the face of the earth.

While all this was executed with total reserves of Don Candido, Leonardo
hid anything Dona Rosa.

From beginning to end kept informed of the steps being taken, as were given. And, sorry to
say, do not know who was more rejoicing in the outcome of the drama, if your child or the
mother. This raised an insurmountable barrier, she sincerely believed, between the girl and the reckless
claims of her husband.

Amid these scenes, displayed Leonardo skill and willpower without
example, by great care in fulfilling the conditions of the contract
held secret to her mother.

Attended to law classes regularly, and when it came time to graduate, visited one by one doctors
to be discussed, mainly to Don Diego de la Torre, who enjoyed very stiff reputation with graduates,
he went out to Fray Ambrosio Herrera, Secretary University, who secretly informed that instead
of the three tips of hard custom, intended to put three ounces of gold in each cartridge. That
paved the way for reception, and managed to stall the ordinance hood,
up to the chair of the lecture hall, get in the crown of the head
red biretta, delivering a speech unintelligible in Latin, and obtain
the degree of Bachelor of Laws "Nemiña dissentiente [60] April 12
1831.

Satisfied with this side its commitments, he still had time to take formal possession of palace
that his father had given him. Then, with the aim of monitoring numb of it, ran to give a "caradita"
to Isabel's paradise Alquízar, and see to conclude with it, if possible, the manner and time of marriage.

Found
it quite cold and discouraged. Repugnábale highly the idea of ??witnessing for second time,
the horrific scenes of wit.

As a guest, it would lack the time together with desire, like love, because if failed to stop
loving the terrible punishments blacks there, by a fatal necessity of the institution, could hardly
promised that married were abolished. Leonardo And pray take these reasons for which mere scruples
nun friend, now they might be persuaded it would relieve a promise
that is no longer interested much his heart, turned to Havana without
trying to pave the unexpected inconvenience.

Had flown out with inconceivable rapidity. In late August was a beautiful Cecilia girl; event
that, far from happy with Leonardo, it seems that only made him feel the full weight of the grave
responsibility that had been thrown over in a moment of amorous rapture.

That not his wife, much less their equal. Could you submit it without blushing, that beautiful
as magu sun, anywhere?

He had not yet fallen so gentle slope of vice sambenito that would
make the gala.

Vanished, without a doubt, the enthusiasm with easy coveted possession
of the object was only contemptible in quality above.

When love took place shortly shame. After this was due repentance, and presented at a gallop,
much earlier than This was expected, called the cold storage conditions and moral laxity that
had tests the young Gamboa.

The first symptoms of change not long in discovering Cecilia with
pain came towards rush of jealousy to complicate the situation of
things.

After three or four months of marriage unlawful were less frequent and less prolonged visits
to Leonardo's house Calle de las Damas. What value than the height of gifts to the beloved,
who advanced to all tastes and whims, even if it was ever more cold and reserved with her,
but showed pride and joy for the child, if ever they failed to achieve even for a night trocar
the house of his own parents?

This explains the strange behavior of Leonardo with Cecilia, the biggest influence on him vigorously
pursued his mother.

Because it was a certainty that if the boy had fled with all the virtues at the early age of
22 years, fleeing the timid pigeon loft struck by lightning, was
no less true that warmed her heart still sweet filial marble.

Doña Rosa also had learned from those days true story of birth, baptism, parenting and fatherhood
of Cecilia Valdés, told Mary Rule now in order to obtain complete
forgiveness of their sins and some help for Dionisio, who was still
in close prison.

Terrified this lady of the abyss to which he had pushed his son,
he said with apparent calmness:

- I was thinking, Leonardite, it's
time to loosen up on the little boy like wild pears ... What do you
think?

- Jesus, Mom! shocked the young man replied.

It would be an atrocity.

- Yes, it is necessary, the mother said
in a resolute tone.

Now, to marry Elizabeth.

- This, too?

Isabella no longer loves me.

You have read his last letters. They do not speak love, speaks only Monji.

- Nonsense! Never mind. I'll fix the business in two Palotada. Things
have changed.

It should get married early on primogeniture, even not for any other purpose than ensuring
legitimate succession to the title. To marry Isabel, I say.

By letter of Don Tomas Don Candido Ilincheta, said Dona Rosa Isabel's hand for his son Leonardo,
heir presumptive County Gamboa House.

In response, the alleged bride, accompanied by her father, sister
and aunt came to his time Havana and was removed at the home of her
cousins, the Misses Gámez.

It was therefore postponed marriage for early November in the picturesque Church of the Angel,
because the most decent, if not closer to the congregation itself.

The first of three revelations Regular ran last Sunday in October, fairs past San Rafael.

There were those who communicate with Cecilia's new link next to Isabel
Ilincheta her lover.

We disclaim paint the tumult of passions aroused in the breast of the proud and vengeful mulatta.
Suffice it to say that the sheep, in fact, became a lioness.

At dusk on November 10 knocked on the door of an old friend Cecilia, who not seen since his
concubinage with Leonardo.

- Jose Dolores! she exclaimed, throwing her arms around his neck in
tears.

What good angel sent you to me?

- I come, "he said with grim countenance and terrible voice, because
it gave me the heart Celia could need.

- Jose Dolores!

José Dolores of my soul! That marriage should not be.

- No?

- No.

- Then tell me not to be Celia.

- No more off him in his arms and
walked outside.

Cecilia, a little, limp hair and the dress loose, ran to the door
and shouted back: Joseph!

José Dolores! To her, he does!

Useless warning. The musician had already turned the corner of Calle
de las Damas.

Numerous candles and candles burned on the altar of the church of
Santo Angel Custodio.

Some people were standing, leaning on the railing of the broad plateau
ending the two stone steps.

On the Street looks up a large group Compostela ladies and gentlemen whose carriages were down.
The couple put the foot on the last step, when a man came by the
other side, his hat pulled down over ears, crossed the plateau and
ran diagonally to Leonardo, an effort to win before this the south
side of the church, where he finally disappeared.

She took the boy on the left hand, gave a muffled cry, wanted to lean on the arm Elizabeth, rolled
and fell at his feet, splashing blood on the shiny white silk dress.

Brushing the arm at the scum, he became the knife right way the heart.

CONCLUSION

Far from appeasing Rosa convinced that Cecilia Valdés was the daughter
of his adulterous half-sister, husband and hence his unfortunate son,
that it seemed to turn it into anger divestment and the desire for
revenge.

Pursued, then, the girl with real fury, and it was not difficult
to make the convict as an accomplice in the murder of Leonardo, a
year of confinement in the hospital for Paula.

On these roads came to recognize and embrace daughter and mother, having recovered this trial,
as is often the insane, a few moments before his spirit left the
wretched human shell.

It makes Isabel Ilincheta, disillusioned would not find happiness
or quiet the soul in the society within which happens to be born,
retired to the convent of the nuns Teresas or Carmelites, and was
professed there after a year of novitiate.

Rosa married to Diego Metieses, strove to replace the older sister in the care of father and
aunt, going to dwell with them in the paradise of Alquízar.

Formed the criminal case for killing Dionisio Tonda, did not come
to fail but five years after the events recounted here.

The court sentenced him to ten and the popular chain Don Miguel Tacon
assigned him to the prison in Havana to the composition of streets.

FIN

GLOSSARY

A

includes: rustic leather footwear that covers the ground beef, fingers
and most of foot and secured with ropes or straps.

Agramonte field: instead of much confusion, where no one understands.

Water Marketplace: agualoja, houses, refreshing drink made with water,
sugar or honey, cinnamon, cloves and some other ingredient.

spying,
stalking.

perch, perch or put varal where falconry birds.

alcarraza:
porous clay pot, which seeps water evaporation cools the remaining
inside.

icing: white paste of sugar and starch which usually cover
several kinds of sweets and snack bars are made in various figurines.

pearls:
pearl of irregular shape and small communities, things like the pearls,
as dewdrops.

almo: nourishing, invigorating.

Yellow gold coin and especially ounce.

ambigú food, usually at night,
consisting of hot and cold dishes that are covers a time table.

eyelet:
metal ring shank nail or screw into a solid body.

Arrente: following the helmet.

forlorn: overworked.

embrasure: long, narrow opening in a wall to shoot her.

adz: woodworking
tool consisting of an iron steely and sharp, with wooden short handle.

B

Badulaque: informal foolish person.

Crossbow: a weapon for shooting
arrows and bolts.

sidewalk, street pavement.

lip: either from the
lips of horses and other animals.

bilorta: vilorta, small iron rings
were used in the axis of the carriages prevent the hub of the wheel
is out of place.

upside down: punishment of lashes applied to slaves
making them lie face down.

Speaker: round piece of straw that puts
defense around the wheel hubs car.

Muzzle: black straight out of
their country.

bronco: said of the voice and instruments that have
sound nasty and rough bushy rough.

ore: waste of anything.

C

rafter:
upper and lower cross rails that form the framework of the doors and
windows.

cap: hair bun or for which you need some filler or artificial,
which was used in the time and still today in several Spanish provinces.

Box:
drum.

cabochon: nail head shaped button that is used for upholstery
and decorating.

swap: barter for items of little value.

camuesa:
very foolish and ignorant man.

Cannon: Large pipe or water pipe.

caravel:
name used by the slaves to their colleagues or comrades who had come
from Africa in the same slave ship, whether men or women.

caradita:
caress, slap in the face.

caritate, to: causing envy or jealousy.

carranclán:
woolen cloth.

tasting: look, look.

Caudine, forks, passing one by:
submit the strongest.

Ciara: walk backwards, backwards.

cicerone,
who teaches and explains the curiosities of a place, building, etc..

citadel
called modern solar.

cochiherviti: hastily, in haste.

doublet: inside
of a person.

swing: balance, rocking chair.

Comptroller: official
royal honorific equivalent to what in Castilla called seer