 

The Treaty of sensations (f p., c. XI), which examines the ideas of a limited man the sense of
sight, sits distinguish the colors to our eyes, because they seem form a surface which they occupy
one hand, and then asks, "our statue judging that is at once colorful, would you feel to itself
as a kind of surface red? "It must be noted that according to Condillac, the statue limited to one
sense you would think the feeling itself, that is, would think that is smell, sound or taste,
according to were the nose, ear or palate, the senses that had in-Office, for which reason, if
the sensations of sight enter the area, the statue should believe surface red. Dispense with the
accuracy of these comments, especially the main point which is the relationship of sight to the
surface.

[67.] According to Condillac, the statue would not believe a painted surface, that is, perceiving color,
would not perceive the surface. Let's talk at the same philosopher, for its sufficient own
words to condemn his opinion and uncertainty discover that the professed or the darkness that she
suffered. "The idea of ??the extension is the perception of many some other things outside,
this perception can not deny it to the statue, because he feels repeating itself off as many
times as there are colors that change, while it the flesh, you feel out of green: while it
is green, you feel out of the flesh; and so do the rest. "Anyone would think that according to these
principles, Condillac was to establish that the view gives an idea of ??the extension, because that
makes us perceive things, some outside the other, as according to the author, is precisely
the idea of ??extension; but on the contrary, Condillac, further away from the true path, is
unfortunately lost, and to be more at odds with the principles just settle, significantly alters the state
of the question and continues, "but to be distinct and accurate idea of ??a magnitude, you need
to see how things were perceived some other, are linked, are completed each other, and as all boards
have limits that circumscribe. "This, again, is to alter the state the question: for now is not a
distinct and accurate idea, but only a idea. The extent to which the hearing could improve the
idea of ??extension, this is a question different, but jumps to the eyes if the eye alone can
give us an idea of ??extension, the continued exercise of this sense would go perfecting the same
idea.

[68.] La statue, Condillac's opinion, could not feel limited to no limit because they would
know nothing outside itself, but do not just tell the author that the statue you would think the
different colors, these are one off from others, and when serious one would feel out the other?
Is not there by chance with this one, not one but many limits?

This argument is not hiding at all to Condillac, after having asked if yo the statue surface modified
by a blue bordered with white, blue would think not over, says, "at first sight would be inclined
to think so, but the contrary opinion is much more plausible. "And why? "The statue can not
feel long for this area but as each one gives you the same modification, each should produce the
sensation of blue; but if it is modified in the same way by a foot of the surface by an inch
or a line can not be represented in this modification, a magnitude rather than another, then does
not represent any, then a sensation of color brings a sense of extension. " It is easy to see
that the same or Condillac supposed to be played, or not say anything conducive to resolve
the issue. According to him the statue is modified in the same way by a foot of a painted surface
by a line that, if by this he means that the two modifications are identical in every respect,
is the same as to prove, because this is precisely what is disputed, namely, whether the different
surfaces also produce sensation magnitude different, and if you mean, as he shows his words, that
the sensation as color, and only in color, is the same in his foot in a line, tells the truth
very true, but we are not useless. Undoubtedly, the sensation of blue, as blue is the same
in different sizes, and nobody thinks of denying it, but the question is not 're at it, the remaining
question is whether a same color, the sensation of sight is modified in different ways, according
the range of magnitudes where the painted surface is presented. Condillac denies it, rather than
from an uncertain and fluctuating, but I think this refusal is as baseless, which can prove quite
the opposite.

[69.] Condillac I wonder if there can be no surface color, if you can paint on retina unextended
object, if we can not even conceive of a color without extension, none of this possible: then
the vision is necessarily accompanied by the extension.

[70.] Condillac extension gets the idea that some things are presented to us out of others; This,
he admits, is verified with the sensation of color, then the vision of what Colorado must produce
the idea of ??the extension. The evasion of Condillac, is extremely weak: tells us that to get an
idea of ??the extension is necessary to take the limits, but first took place and proved by
the same author's doctrine, that these limits are felt; and besides, is very singular pretension
of giving sight to give us the right idea an unlimited extension, and refuse to produce idea
of ??limit: as if the same thing see the extended, not born the idea of ??limited, or other causes,
the same limitation the body, as if it were not feeling more inconceivable
that the limited unlimited.

But I would assume that the boundary is not felt, the unlimited extension
longer extension "?

Is it not rather the extension of excellence? Does the idea of ??endless space, being unlimited,
longer extension idea?

[71.] Put in front of the eyes two red circles, one of an inch in diameter, and another of a rod, irrespective
of any sense of touch is the effect produced in the retina will be
the same?

Obviously not: this is opposed to experience, reason is opposed founded the laws of reflection
of light and mathematical principles. If this impression is different the difference will be
felt, then the difference of the magnitudes can be appreciated.

But I suppose that ignoring the experience and reason, insists on the claim that any the feeling
of the two circles is the same: I am going to make palpable the surprise and even absurdity
of this opinion. Imagine that the two circles are colored red and finished by a blue line,
take the small circle and put a more confusing within their centers; wonder: does the eye see
the figure, not see the small circle within the larger? Is not see the blue line that completes
the circle of an inch in diameter, contained within the other blue
line that completes the circle of a rod? is clearly yes.

Now, feel extension, is it nothing but feel some parts out of others? feel the difference
magnitude is not feeling the greatest about the other and holding each other? is evident yes.
Then feel the magnitude of the eye, then feel the extension.

[72.] Still can be confirmed more and more the truth I'm showing. Experience teaches us, and when
this did not exist, reason would tell us that the visual field has a limit, according to the
distance at which we are the object. So when we set eyes on a wall of great extension, we
do not see any, but a part of it. Suppose that in a visual field is an object of a given quantity,
but not very full or surface covered by the eye, according to the system of Condillac, the vision
can not be different, provided the color is the same, which will result that the feeling will be
identical whether the object occupies a small part of the visual
field, whether it occupies almost everything.

Result also, that if the visual field is a great blank canvas for example a hundred yards square,
and the object is a blue canvas of a square yard, the feeling is the same as if the canvas
Blue was an inch or ninety yards square.

[73.] These arguments that at least on confused, they must be offered to Condillac, rendered
him speak with hesitation, and even contradictory. We have already been noted in the above passages,
but is still clearer in the following. "We need the term to express precisely the feeling he
has of the statue itself changed many colors at once, but at last she knows that there is in
many ways, is perceived somewhat like a red point beyond which there are others in which she returns
to find; and in this respect we can say that it feels long. "Before, we had said that the color
not it be extended to the statue, until instructed by the light touch, form eyes the habit
of referring the simple and unique feeling, to all points of the surface; Immediately afterwards, says
the opposite as we have seen, and it feels large statue: and the ideologue can not find another
way to avoid contradiction, but to warn the feeling of the extension would be vague, as it
would have no limits. This is a contradiction that it is palpable above where does this lack
of limits? if a visual field a hundred yards of white surface, are
assumed various shapes of different colors, green, flesh, the sight
perceive the limits of those figures, as is evident where it Condillac
has discovered that endlessness that speaks to us?

[74.] The observation that, although the sensation of color wrap the extension, not follow that produjese
us up because of that we do not draw from the sensations all ideas they contain, but only those
which we noted, although very real, does not lead to anything in the present instance, it is
not what we might draw from sensation, but what is in it, and if that Condillac Seats can
touch the remove the extension idea what right can deny this power
with respect to the view, assuming that the idea of ??extension is
contained in both sensations?

If I am not mistaken, there is here a tacit confession of the falsity of his opinion. The idea
of extension will be in the sense of sight, but we can not remove it, why? because is vague, but
then who takes the year, bringing the comparison and reflection,
make it accurate?

The difficulty is to acquire one way or another, the improvement is the work time.

Undoubtedly, the first sensations of sight would not have the accuracy to which arrive after a long
period, but their own is verified touch. This made perfect sense like everyone else, you also
need their education by decirio so, and those born blind that by
dint of concentration and work, come to possess him with an astonishing
delicacy, give us proof of this truth patent.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE BLIND Cheselden.

[75.] Cheselden The blind, who speaks Condillac in confirmation of their views, presents no phenomena
in which they can support. It was this blind a boy of 13 to 14 years, to whom Cheselden, a distinguished
London surgeon, made the operation of cataract, first in one eye
after the other.

Before operation, make out day of the night, and bright, even knew what white, black and red.
This circumstance is important, and it should fix the attention. The most notable events, and
more relationship to the question before us, were as follows.

1. ยบ when he began to see, believed that the objects touching the outside surface of your eye.
This suggests that the view alone can not make us judge of distance, but rather discussed the
thing you see that the argument is inconclusive. No one would claim that the view the first time
of exercise, can also communicate clear and precise ideas, the experience that when we used
to compare the different views. As in the hearing takes place at the touch, a blind man with
his long habit of being guided by their own sensations of touch in many of its movements, to know
the position reaches and distances of objects with admirable precision. Assuming a private man
sense of touch, and suddenly it becomes, not judge rightly of objects this sense, but after having
exercised. Experience teaches us that perfection Touch runs a large scale: the blind see in their
highest point, and it is probable that the minimum of its perfection in the first moments of
his tenure, would come to view the act of falling in cataracts, also
objects are presented in confusing without the subject that experienced,
could fully appreciate their differences before the practice would
have trained to discern and classify.

With respect to the distances it is noteworthy that the Cheselden blind, was not only private
the habit of knowing, but he had otherwise. Because she was not completely blind, he perceived
the light through cataracts, and if was very rich, until he to distinguish between white, black
and red, was presented as attached to the eye, which can form idea watching what happens to us
closing the eyes when too bright. It follows that to see, due to imagine that the new vision
was the same the background, and therefore did not happen other than a simple change of object.
To appreciate the force of the view with respect to the distance, a blind man would have been
better all because I had not had any habit or otherwise favorable
to the knowledge of them.

2. No. I was very hard to conceive that there were other objects beyond those he saw; not manage
to distinguish the limits, everything seemed immense.

Neither knew how to conceive the house could seem larger than his cabinet, even though I knew
from experience that this was smaller than that.

From these facts you infer Condillac confirmation of your system, I wonder about Similar data proposes
to found a philosophy. I submit to the consideration of the reader the following observations.

[76.]
This is a 13 to 14 years, thus lacking all spirit of observation,
and of course, express the greatest disorder impressions experienced
in a situation so unique and so new.

The organ of sight exercising for the first time, had to be extremely weak, and therefore serve as
a very incomplete for sensory functions. At every step experience making a transition to sudden
darkness to light, if this is very much alive, just spotted objects,
and we see everything with a lot of confusion, what was to happen
to the poor child the age of 13 opened his eyes for the first time?

According Cheselden referred to herein, the objects were brought before the blind in such confusion
that not distinguished, whatever the shape and magnitude. This confirms what I just stated, namely,
that the confusion depended largely, if not all, of the organ produced
wrong impressions, because if these had been as convenient, would
have distinguished the boundaries between different colors, because
the simple case of feeling, seeing is distinguished.

We noted that the hearing did not recognize that he had known objects by touch: but this only proves
that not having been able to compare the two sets of feelings, did not know which corresponded
to the impressions one another. By touch conoceria bodies spherical, but as ignorant of the
impression that an area to the eye, it is clear that introduce a ball that had thumbed a thousand
times, I could not even suspect that object seen was the same object
touched.

This leads me to another observation that I think very important.
[77.] Experiments were collected from the mouth of a man who spoke
in a language did not know, such was the boy who was to express their
feelings in visual order