 Was capricious and intractable,
complaining about Toni and the other two officers because it accelerated the repair of the vessel.
He then spoke of the convenience of having no hurry to work more complete. To Caragol was the
victim of his temper, which he vented in the form of cruel sermons against the poison of alcohol
aficionados.

- When men need to be happy with something better than wine, which
provides more drunk that drink ... It is the woman, man Caragol.

Do not forget this advice.

The Cook, by force of habit, he replied: "Yes, sir ..."

But pity inside of the ignorance of men, which makes them focus all their happiness in spasms
and faces the most frivolous games.

Two days later the people on board saw that the captain breathed moved ashore. The ship was in an
uncomfortable place, near the coal descargaderos, its stern high so that the propeller was
recomposed.

Workers replaced the battered and broken plates with a hammer irresistible. Since I had to wait
about a month, it was better to stay in a hotel. And he sent his luggage to Paternope harbor
in the ancient shore of St. Lucia the same man who had appointed Freya.

Give to release a five liras, and advanced several questions, was the first thing Ferragut
did when installed in a high part, seeing the blue circle framed
Gulf the framework of a balcony.

The waiter, swarthy, mustachioed, listened intently, with a gratification third, and was finally
able to form a complete personality with all its data. The lady who
asked the signora was Talberg.

Was traveling, but was to return at any moment.

Odysseus spent a day with the tranquility of waiting in a safe place. I looked at the Gulf from
the balcony. At his feet was the Egg Island, joined to the mainland by a bridge.

The bersaglieri occupied its ancient castle, built by the Viceroy Don Pedro de Toledo. There were
several dark pink towers, who crowded on the narrow oval-shaped island. This fortress was
locked in the past the Spanish garrison cut to record your culebrinas
bombards and against the people of Naples when he did not want to
pay more imposts and taxes.

Its walls were erected on the ruins of another castle in which Frederick II kept their treasures,
whose chapel was painted by Giotto. And the medieval castle, which was only recall, had risen to
turn over the remains of the palace of Lucullus, who had the center of its famous gardens in this
small island, then called Megaris.

The bugles of bersaglieri glad the captain as the announcement of
a grand entrance.

"It's going to come, is going to get from one point to another ..." He looked at the two mountain
on the island of Capri, black in the distance, closing the Gulf as a promontory, and the coast of
Sorrento, rectilinear the same as a wall. "There she is ..." Then followed lovingly over the
steamers plying the vast blue cup, opening a triangle of foam. In all of them Freya come.

The first day was golden and hope. The sun shone in a cloudless sky, boiling the Gulf bubble
of light under a stationary atmosphere, without the slightest gust rizase its surface; the plume
of Vesuvius was straight and slim, stretching over the horizon like a pine tree white fumes.
At the foot of the balcony was succeeded by the hour buskers, singing barcarolles and voluptuous
love serenades. And she did not come!

The second day was silver and despair.

There was fog in the gulf, the sun was no more than a red circle could look ahead, as in northern
countries, the mountains had a lead gown and the clouds hid the cone
of the volcano, the sea seemed tin, and a cold wind swell, such as
candles, skirts and coats, by running to the nations by walk from
the shore.

The musicians were singing, but with melancholy sighs, the shelter of a corner to escape the
fierce gusts of the sea. "Die ... per die te! "moaned a baritone voice from harps and violins ...
And she did!

To tell the waiter that Talberg signora was in his room downstairs, Ulises trembled with anxiety.
What would she say to find installed in your hotel?

...

Lunch time was near, and waited impatiently for the daily signals
to lower the dining room.

First, an explosion sounded in the rear of the harbor, that shook walls and ceilings, stretching
into the vastness of the gulf. It was the noon cannon out of high Sant Elmo Castle. The horns
Egg Island to respond then your joyful call to the steaming pot,
and the hotel staircase stood the racket chinoiserie the gong announcing
that lunch was served.

Ulysses went down to take his table, looking in vain for the other
guests who had gone ahead.

Freya would be presented with the delay of a traveler who has just arrived and is busy in according
to him.

Lunched evil, continually looking at a large window with drawings of boats, fish and seagulls atragantándosele
snack every time they opened their multicolored leaves.

And it came at the end of lunch, and took his coffee slowly, though she appeared.

On returning to his room sent the mustachioed waiter for news ... La signora not had lunch at
the hotel: la signora had left while he was in the dining room. Probably to the night that would see
them.

During the meal suffered the same concerns, believing that Freya would appear whenever a Blurred
hand and a vague silhouette of a woman pushed the door to the other side of the opaque glass.

Long time walked through the lobby, furiously chewing his cigar, until
it was decided to addressing the porter, brown and crafty head sticking
out the edge of his desk, on flaps blue embroidered with gold keys,
seeing everything, hearing everything, as he seemed to sleep.

Ulises's approach made him jump up, just as if he heard the flutter
a paper currency.

Their reports were accurate. La signora Talberg rarely ate in the hotel. I had some friends who occupied
a furnished apartment in the neighborhood of Chiaia, and with them spent almost all day. Sometimes
even came to sleep ... And sat back down, fixing tight in one hand the ticket that was submitted
with your imagination.

After a bad night, Ulysses rose, determined to wait his widow at the entrance hotel. He took his breakfast
at a little table in the lobby, read newspapers, had to leave at
the door morning cleaning fleeing, pursued by dust brooms and carpet
shock, Once there, he pretended great interest in traveling musicians,
who spent romances and serenades, rolling his eyes when he presented
his hats.

Someone came to her company. It was the porter, who was familiar confianzudo as if the night
before had been established between the two strong friendship based on a secret.

He spoke of the beauties of the country, advising various excursions ... A smile, a word Ferragut cheerleader,
and would have immediately suggested other breaks which seemed ad
turn around their lips.

But the sailor sulking welcomed so kindly. This belitre going to interfere with his presence
the desired encounter, perhaps kept his side by the desire to see and know ... Taking advantage of
its fast absences, Ulysses away from the long Via Partenope, following the railing overlooking
the sea, pretending to be interested for all that was, but without losing sight of the hotel door.

He stopped at the stalls of the ostricarios examining the shell-pearl
shells lined on shelves, in baskets of oysters Fusaro, the huge shells,
hollow bodies, whose throat bellowed, as sellers, as a reminder, the
distant hum of the sea.

Miró, one by one, all boats cars, racing sloops, fishing boats and coasting schooners moored
in the small port of the island of Egg.

Froze to the gentle waves combing the foam on the rocks of the seawall
under the horizontal rods bourgeois, several villagers.

Suddenly he saw Freya along the avenue by the side of houses.

She recognized his time, and this discovery made her stop beside an intersection, wondering
proceed or flee into Naples.

He went to the sidewalk from the sea, moving toward Ferragut with
a placid smile, greeting him from afar as a friend whose presence
there is nothing extraordinary.

This puzzled the master security. Shook hands, and she asked quietly why he was there watching the waves
and if advanced repairs of his ship.

- But you will confess that my presence was surprised! - Ulysses said, somewhat irritated by this peace
-. Recognize that not expecting to find here.

Freya repeated his smile with a sweet expression of pity.

- It is
natural that you're here.

You are in your neighborhood, at the sight of your hotel ... We neighbors.

To

recreate the astonishment of the captain, was a long pause. Then he added:

- I saw your name on the guest list yesterday, reaching the hotel.
It is my custom.

I like to know who my neighbors.

- Is that why you did not go down to the dining room? ...

Ulysses asked this question hoping that she responded negatively. I could not do otherwise, if only
for good education.

- Yes, so - Freya answered simply -. I guessed that I hoped to get out to meet, and do not want
to get into the dining room ... I warn you I'll always do it.

Ulysses launched an 'ah' of wonder ... No woman had spoken so frankly.

-
Nor am I surprised by their presence here - she continued -, the expected.

I know the innocent wiles of men. "Since yesterday I found the hotel, I expected today in the
street" I said this morning when I wake up ... Before I followed his walks out from the window my
room ...

Ferragut looked at her with surprise and dismay. What a woman! ...

- I could have escaped any side street while you were back. I've seen
you before to me ... But I do not like false situations are prolonged.

It is better to say all the truth face to face ... And so I came to meet him.

Instinct made him turn his head toward the hotel. The doorman stood in the doorway, looking
sea, but certainly with his eyes to them.

- Let - said Freya -. Join me a little, talk, and then I leave you ... Maybe we split up more friends
than before.

They walked in silence all the way Partenope, until they reached the gardens of the riverside
of Chiaia, losing sight of the hotel. Ferragut wished to resume the conversation, but found the
first words. Apparently feared ridicule. I was afraid of this woman.

He realized to contemplate with adoring eyes of the great changes
that were made in the adornment of his person.

Tailleur no longer wearing the dark with which he had first seen time. She wore a silk dress,
blue and white, with a rich leather on the shoulders and a plume heron feather on top of the
wide hat.

The black hand bag that accompanied on his trip had been replaced by a bag of gold of ostentatious
wealth, Australian gold, a shade of green, similar to the patina of the bronze Florentines.
She wore in her ears two large square emerald and fingers half-dozen of bright, which moved
from side to side in the sunlight.

The pearl necklace was fixed on her neck, poking out the neck angle ... It was a magnificent artist
rich I check everything over, the love of jewelry that can not live
without his touch and puts on his skin just jumps out of bed, ignoring
the time and the rules of discretion.

But Ferragut could not distinguish the lateness of this luxury.

All of it seemed admirable.

Without knowing how, was launched to speak. The same was shocked to hear his voice, always saying
same things in different words. His thoughts were incoherent, but all were crowding around
a constantly repeated assertion: his love, his immense love for Freya.

And Freya continued marching in silence with a look of pity in the eyes and the corners of his
mouth. He liked his women proud to watch this strong man babbling with a childlike confusion.
At the same time, impatient at the monotony of his words.

- Do not
follow the captain - broke at last -.

Guess all that's left to say, and I've heard leading often said. "You do not sleep, you do not
eat, you do not live because of me." Their existence is impossible without love you. A little
more conversation, and I threaten to stick a shot if I am not yours
... Music known!

They all say the same thing.

There are no creatures with less originality than men when they want something ...

Avenue were in a walk.

Through the palms and magnolias was seen on one side Gulf bright and rich on the other buildings
on the banks of Chiaia. Some little boys chased ragged around the couple, chasing. They were
then placed next to to a white gazebo that stood at the bottom of
the avenue.

- Well, love Sea Wolf - continued Freya - you do not
sleep, eat you, mates if it is your whim, but I can not love him,
I'll love you ever.

Lost all hope.

Life is not fun, and I have other serious concerns absorb all my time.

Through the playful smile which accompanied these words, Ferragut surmised a will very firm.

- Then - said in dismay - "everything will be useless?

... "Even if I make the greatest sacrifices? ... Even if you provide evidence of a love as ever
known? ...

- All useless - she replied flatly, still smiling.

They had reached the temple, dome supported by white columns, with
a gate around.

Virgil's bust stood in the center: a huge head of something feminine beauty.

The poet died in Naples, "the sweet Partenope 'on his return from
Greece, and his body maybe he was gutted in the belly of this garden.

The crowd Neapolitan Middle Ages had attributed all sorts of wonders, to convert the poet powerful
magician. The sorcerer Virgil built in one night the Egg Castle, placing her hands on a large egg
floating in the sea. Also had to blow open the old tunnel Possilipo, near which there is a vineyard
and a tomb for centuries as a last visited home of the poet.

Urchins, playing around the gate, threw papers and stones inside the
temple.

I drew the white head of the powerful enchanting, feeling at once admiration and fear.

She stopped near the derelict monument.

- So far nothing more - he ordered -. You follow your path. I go to the top of Chiaia ... But
before we parted as good friends, I'm going to give his word not
to follow, not to importune with amorous, of not interfering in my
life.

Ulysses did not answer. Head down with a real disappointment. A disappointment was added the pain
of wounded pride.

The things he had imagined so different to when they saw for first time alone! ...

Freya took pity on her sadness.

- Do not be a child ... That will happen. Think business, think about
your family awaits back in Spain.

And the world is full of women: I'm not alone.

But Ferragut interrupted. Yes, it was the only ... The only! And he said with a conviction that
it brought back a smile of pity.

The tenacity of this man get sore.

- Captain, I know well. Are you a selfish, like all men. Your ship is detained in port for a fault,
should you stay a month on earth is on a trip to a woman who foolishly
agreed that he knew in the past, and says: "Superb opportunity to
pleasantly entertain the hassle of waiting ..."

If I believed, if he accepted their wishes, in a few weeks to get ready the ship, the hero of my
love, the champion of my dreams, the sea would be as a last salute, saying: "Goodbye, asshole!"

Ulysses protested vigorously. No: he desired that his vessel was never reassembled; estimated
with anguish the days remaining. If need be, leave him, staying forever in Naples.

- What do I have to do in Naples? - Interrupted Freya -. I am a bird of passage here, which same
as you.

We met in the seas of the other hemisphere, and we have to rediscover in Italy. Next time, if we
meet again, will be in Japan, Canada, on Cape ... Keep going, amorous shark, and let me go
mine.

Imagine that we are two ships are in a calm, miracles, exchange greetings,
wish for good luck, and then each away by his side, perhaps never
to be seen ever.

Ferragut shook his head. That could not be, he was not resigned to
losing seen again.

- Men! - She went on, more and more irritated
-. Everyone can imagine that things must be according to their whims.
"Because I want you, you should be mine ..." What if I do not want?
... What if I do not suffer the need to be loved? ... I can not live
in freedom, no other love than I am by myself? ...

Considered a disgrace
to be a woman. The men inspired envy for their independence. Could
stand aside and refrain from wearing life passions, and nobody come
to intrude on his retirement. Les was lawful to go everywhere, to
travel the world without her steps lead behind a trail of applicants.

-
You are nice to me, Captain. The other day I was glad to meet you:
it was an appearance of past. I saw in you the joy of my youth starting
to leave and melancholy of certain memories ... And yet, I'll end
by hate: I hear you, Argonaut heavy? ... I abhor because it serves
to friend, because only you know about the same thing, because it
is a character novel, a Latino, maybe interesting for other women,
but unbearable for me.

His face contorted with a gesture of contempt
and pity. "Ah, Latinos !...»

- All are the same, Spanish, Italian,
French. All were born to the same thing. Just found a desirable woman
to believe neglect of duty if they ask for your love and what comes
next ... Can not a man and a woman just be friends? Could not you
be a good comrade and treat him as a partner?

Ferragut protested
vigorously. No, I could not. He loved her, and after being repelled
cruelty, his love would grow. I was sure. 

A nervous tremor was sharp
and cutting Freya's voice. His eyes took on an unhealthy glow. He
looked at her companion as if it were an enemy whose death wish.

-
Well, you sepal. I hate those men hate them because I know them. I
would like death of them all, all! ... The evil they have done in
my life ... I would be immensely beautiful, the most beautiful woman
on earth and possess the talent of all the scholars concentrated in
my brain, and be rich and be a queen, that all men in the world, mad
with desire, come to bow down to me ... And I lift my feet with iron
heels, and would crush heads ... well ... Well! ...

Hit the sand
of the garden with the soles of their shoes short. A hysterical grimace
contorted his mouth.

- You might excuse him ... You, with all the
arrogance of the bully, is a naive simple. I can drop him to a woman
all kinds of lies ... believing you before. But to the others ...
Ay, to the other! ... How I hate them! ...

He looked towards the
palace of the aquarium, stretching his whiteness between the colonnade
of trees.

- I want to be - continued, thoughtful - one of those sea
animals that cut with pliers their legs ... they have in the arms
scissors, saws, pliers ... to devour their fellows and absorb everything
around them