 

This would have said, if you have found them, but there was no such meeting or such words were
pronounced. He turned back home very sad, and no longer went out of his mind the idea that Guadalajara
is the beneficent priest was not his own invention, that everything we dream has its own existence,
and that involve truth lies. They spent two days in this situation, no more news that horrible
growth of economic difficulties. With so much pordiosear morning and evening, never leaving the account
was not born there and you should trust no one value real amenazola Pitusa to give the party
if not returned within a brief period their jewelry. Faltábale and energy, and great courage wavered,
lost faith in Providence, and form opinions unflattering human charity, all errands and excursions
to procure money gave no other result than a hard few days lent by Juliana, the wife of Antonito.
The charity was not enough or far, in vain until she was deprived of his usual food, to cover the
shortage at home, in vain he went with broken sandals, bruised feet. The economy, the sleaze
itself, were ineffective: there was no choice but to succumb and fall, saying: "I came to where
I could, what else do God, if you want."

One Saturday afternoon filled their woes with an unexpected and sad incident. Left to ask in
San Justo: Almudena did the same on the streets of Sacramento. She Estrenose ten cents, unprecedented
windfall, which it considered a good omen. But how great his error, to rely on these goodies
that fate throws at us and hurt us adverse to lure comfortably! Happy Soon Release, an individual
appeared in the secret round that pushing a bad way, he said, "Come, good woman, take you to
walk forward ... And I live, I live ...

- What? ...

- You shut up and walk ...

- But where it takes me?

- Shut up you,
you have more account ... Hala! to San Bernardino.

- But what am
I doing wrong ... sir?

- Are you asking!

... Did not I tell you yesterday that the Governor does not want
ask in this street?

- Well, keep me Mr. Governor, I hunger I will
not die, for Christ ... Go with men!

...

- Street you so drunk!

... Walking say!

- Do not push me!

... I am not a criminal ... I have family, I know who paid me ... Hey, I'm not going to where
you want to take ...».

He leaned against the wall, but the fierce policeman took off with a push violentísimo Stevedores. Drew
near two public order, to which he sent round to take her to San Bernardino, together with all other
pobretería of both sexes in this street and adjacent streets found. Benina even tried to win
the will of the guards, was willing in affliction alive. Begged and wept bitterly, but tears
and entreaties were in vain. Forward, always forward, leading to the rear of the blind African,
who, as he learned that picked her up, went to the Order, asking that he also cast him the
network and Hell itself will take, provided he does not leave her