 

  The railroad was not completely finished more than to the right
  place. Today comes to Turin.

  

  # TURIN. #
  
  The capital of Piedmont, which I had dreamed of beautiful, is a beautiful
city, it is undeniable, but extremely monotonous and insubstantial.

  
  
  All streets are cut from the same pattern, annoying and equality
  so tired studied: its magnificent arches, which have been prudently
  distributed to the city appearance, beautified, hold the view that
limited circle monotonous tired to disgust.

  
  
  Although the town is small colossal plazas abound: the most Beauty
to me is the Victorio Emmanuel, to the extent the city.

  
  
  Its extension is prodigious, to find encircled by three walls of
  essential arcs, like all high and spacious.

  Opens in a semicircle on the side of the long street which leads
  straight to the square of the Palazzo Vecchio.
  
  At the foot of the vast square is the historical tendency Po,
  with its clear and abundant waves. From the center of that square
  is a table very picturesque: the mighty river, which saves an elegant
  stone bridge of five arches, at the end of which, and facing,
  stands the church of the Gran Madre di He, with its cupolas
  and slender crown, and a humble peristyle by colonnaded front: right
and left and closing the horizon, artistic mountains, pompously dressed
vegetables.

  
  
  On the right, and located on a scenic hill, is presented
  a convent of friars, to the left, the beautiful church of the Superga,
with elegant columns, two towers and a graceful dome.

  
  

  Before going further I want to point me the impression that was
  the view of the friars.
  
  In Venice, where he first was able to examine closely a monk. Accustomed
  to hearing about them from my childhood in the makes sense now,
  persuaded me that it is an institution happened fortunately for
  humanity, and what happened never to return ever, without having
  a clear idea of ??them, because in Spain were abolished when
  I was seven, I frankly confess that he passed to me the first to
be offered to my view Venice, I left an almost spontaneously repulsive.

I

  watched him curiously short, and when I lost sight of me congratulated
  again, as he had done before, that there I have in my country.

I
  am convinced beyond all doubt that the monks have passed forever
and fortunately, all human institutions have the time.

  
  
  Another good places Turin is the Carignano: wide spacious, with majestic
buildings.

  
  

  The Old Palace Square, behind which lies the king of Sardinia
  in a building called the palace, by mistake without doubt, is large
  and clear as any in the city to it lead to the most elegant streets,
  where trading has its luxury shops [24].
  

  The Old Palace, which provides isolated in the middle of the square,
  not interested one minute achieved in spite of his venerable age
  historical color. His canvases uneven and abandoned their old
  towers, its dark practicable balcony poor, your wretched stature
  that does not even come with a lot to the size of the palaces,
  all together in a word offer nothing to admire, reason why
  we move forward, and truth is a no small trouble to me, I do
  not know where to take the reader as Turin Venice is different [25]!

One
  of the most beautiful ornaments of the capital of Piedmont me, of
course, and nothing is to men.

  
  

  I speak of the magnificent Alps, always wonderfully impressive,
  with its snow-white hair secular.

  
  The name of the nation amply indicates the situation of Alps in Turin,
Piedmont, ie, at the foot of the mountains.

  
  
  Indeed, entering into many streets of Turin, straight and mostly
  flat, suddenly preséntanse the Alps closing the horizon,
  closing the street at the foot materially. This
  superb decoration, that both captivates and enchants me, beautifies
  my eyes the streets of Torino, close horizons with majestic mountains
  to silver splendor of the dazzling sun, offers in the City splendid
  magnificence with which God graced perfect work, and beautifies all,
the box and accidents.

  
  
  This intimate neighborhood of the Alps, makes the winter Turin is
too cold, although its action is neutralized and in Switzerland by
the frequency and abundance of snow.

  
  

  The churches of Turin, considered under the aspect of art,
  no offer absolutely nothing to admire [26].
  
  Turin is perhaps the only population that lacks Italy monumental temples,
churches where art shines: toured many and not found one worthy of
praise, it is understood under the qualification of art.

  
  
  One of the most picturesque sites around Turin is Regina della Vigna
called: lushness and vegetables, cheerful and white houses, hills
all handsome.

  
  
  A short distance from the bridge of the Po, which links as I said
  Victor Manuel square to the Church of the Great Mother of God
  just built a suspension bridge that I crossed after have paid a short
amount required by the passage, according to happening in London on
several bridges.

  

  
  Dora also be at the Torino.
  

  A large street, very wide and spacious, with double rows trees surrounding
  the town on one side, it's a very good ride beautifies the
  proximity of the Po.
  
  In Turin, there are many libraries that mostly takes the Paris trade:
encuéntranse many good books: reading rooms and libraries, as well
as other Turin literary establishments are mounted and understood.

  
  
  In terms of hotels and cafes are plentiful, especially the
  latter, which are everywhere. Theaters, Real exception, are of poor
  appearance, they were very little encouraged when I saw them:
  it is true that the tragic Ristori with all the theater company's
first line of Turin, was in Paris, where after I saw it.

  
  
  Attended a performance of Linda in a miserable theater called Cervino,
theater is to the right of the square Victor Manuel.

  
  
  The company was detestable, the provincial orchestra, the called
  inside the theater difficult to describe: the Linda sang,
  very ugly, with Donizetti's forgiveness, which is said to I had not
really known.

  The best theater of Turin is Royal.
  

  One of the visits abroad must be dispensed in any Turin is the
  Egyptian Museum.
  

  The building where the collection is an ancient Egyptian palace
  is one of the main streets of Turin, the New Street.

  
  
  In the same literary establishment is a corporation and a
  Cabinet agriculture.
  
  As I said in Turin, the collection of mummies and statues I speak
Egyptian, was collected and purchased by a Frenchman who Luis Felipe
wanted to sell.

  It appears that the absence of agreed price, Carlos Alberto
  who asked for and offered the got it, thereby enriching his country
  with a rare and precious collection.
  

  On the ground floor of the building, occupying two rooms, statues,
  busts, columns and ruins of temples, all pure Egyptian, with its
unintelligible hieroglyphics and their corresponding inscriptions.

  
  
  This collection is curious and worthy of more than one concept be
  accessed.

  
  There, in the presence of those columns, the old is reborn, and
  Egypt, which before it was Greece that the cradle of knowledge
  and a very advanced civilization, especially in arts, holds still
  young and artistic.
  

  There are there five or six statues of the gods that infinite Egyptian
  polytheism created to please on all passions, even the most awkward.

  Also found in this collection four or five miniature
  Egyptian temple, give accurate and complete idea of ??the real,
  because they contain up the smallest detail.

  
  
  On the top floor are the mummies, perfectly preserved and intact,
after the centuries that count.

  
  

  Among them is a priest of a remote Egyptian Seniority: cuéntanse
  sixteen or eighteen admirably preserved.

  
  The cabinet of natural history is also interesting: it is composed
  the rich collections of birds, quadrupeds, birds, etc.., etc.,
  in very good number.

  
  There are some very friendly employees, who through a greeting expressive
  hands, explain and teach everything.
  

  There too, as in our Madrid, taught very well dissected and
  put the huge skeleton of a megatherium.
  

  The three mineral, animal and plant with different ramifications
  and families, are fairly represented in rich collections. The
  cabinet held a variety of rooms, the objects are very well classified.

The
  museum of paintings, who lives near the palace Victor Manuel, is
poorly poor and hardly worth an hour of examination: It is composed
mostly of copies, and good teachers schools of Venice, Florence and
Rome do not appear there.

  
  
  The general appearance of Turin, is a town has four days of existence,
  everything is new, everything is new, all modern.

  
  

  In vain the traveler asks where are the buildings that Everywhere
  there were generations, it is useless Turin will find the preceding
  day, it is not found, does not exist.
  
  This, very meritorious for me, I look for in a people their history
  and their past, coupled with its tired monotony of a business as
usual, I did leave Turin to the few days after my arrival.

  
  

  The same think happens to all foreigners like me go with
  the sole purpose of visit.
  
  The communications system, since it has entered Piedmont in good
  faith in the path of a constitutional people, traveling no obstacles
  to its development and progress, has received a important momentum,
helping to enrich their present and the future because it is known
that communications are now a safe source of progress and wealth.

  
  

  Turin departing from different well-built railways full of life
  and animation.
  

  For all sites that are delivering life and travel movement,
  people close to the capital change advantageously, and general
  utility, all products; promote the works of utility and pleasure
  wherever they go, and increase in short public wealth, as
  in all countries that have good communications.
  

  In Turin there railroads to Novara, Genoa, Alexandria Suse, to the
foot of the Alps.

  
  
  The lines are all very important, especially Novara and Genoa: the
coaches are good, excellent grading, movement and service.

  
  
  The railway from Turin to Suse, about fourteen line Spanish leagues,
  speaks volumes on behalf of Piedmont. The line important in every
  respect, walking on the side of the Alps and direction to the Savoy,
overcoming great obstacles materials, as are the slopes of these tremendous
mountains around Turin.

  
  
  This was the one I I chose to return to Switzerland.
  

  I left Turin at three in the afternoon: to half past four we
  came to Suse, playing physically with Mount Cenis, and therefore
  with immense heights to climb.
  
  His tenure there is no longer possible, I had taken note from
  Turin to Geneva: come to Suse I went up to the coach, pulled by vigorous
fourteen mules and nine after rising steadily hours, we reached the
summit of the highest mountain, snowcapped bright.

  
  
  It was two thirty in the morning, in a hotel there There
  we had coffee with milk, and continued on our way to since there
  is a decline, and steady decline, no stopped a moment to reach
  the same Geneva.
  
  The road is superb, imposing, magnificent: the Alps, those mighty
mountains that I had the unparalleled pleasure of crossing for different
sites, those high mountains that large Carthage son went through the
first, one of the miracles aborted his genius, volunteered again to
my astonishment the through the Savoy.

  
  
  Swollen with snow deep valleys, waterfalls and bustling bright cliffs
  of immeasurable grandeur, the small San Bernardo, hills and contours
  secular Profile picturesque, stunning saves road and crosses from
  Suse side, near Turin, to the very streets Geneva, all these
  incidents together, made my trip a scholar and enjoyable recreation,
it produced a non- interrupted series of bleak emotions.

  
  
  Half a league from Chambery, the capital of the Savoy [27],
  begin to see the magnificent and numerous cottages that Savoy
  aristocracy and the English and Germans who have travel built
  around him. Is a delightful place of recreation in summer, with
  the agreeable vicinity of the Alps, Chamouny picturesque, Mont
  Blanc, the Hospice of San Bernardo, and Glaciers.
  
  The capital of the Savoy has very few charms for traveler, there
  are only two good roads: the end of the main, is a monument to
  a man truly dedicated large and modest: it is a marble fountain,
surmounted by a bronze statue, a bust of the illustrious city of Chambery
[28] bequeathed part of his immense wealth to the poor, who raised
and founded by real estate own the home for foundlings, which behind
her statue stands, who created and endowed a school free education
for the poor, and did enfin other many important works of charity,
earning the love of those who knew him, assured him the veneration
of those who living and respect for those to come.

  
  
  There are two good hotels in Chambery and many other medium, a small
theater, a cathedral curious, some cafes and a street chic boutiques.

  
  
  From Chambery to Geneva, there are some people important: the countryside
  is well cultivated as possible, and is very clean and cheerful appearance
of the people that go to step from Chambery to Geneva.

  
  
  I arrived at that city which I have described in speaking of Switzerland,
and from Geneva to Bern, I found more comfort in No country in Europe.

  
  
  I made the journey in fourteen hours over and Yverdon
  Neuchatel, traveling by steam lakes, soil vapor in diligence and
buses, all within a short time, and admirably.

  
  
  And this concludes my notes from the trip to Italy: the memory Venice's
  most agreeable eternal and carefully will keep my memory: none
  of the big cities I've visited both in Europe and America, I have
  produced the emotion that Queen of the Adriatic was in my mind, it
is true that Venice does not seem to any city.

  
  

  Over the Alps on the Gotthard is worth in itself a Travel:
  good memories too.

  
  Italy has excellent roads, and the media everyday communication
  are a big boost.
  

  Piedmont march at the head of the other towns of Italy, and their
  well-built railroads, and soon cover subject to a single common
  center, the different provinces constitute the kingdom.
  
  I say nothing of Florence, because only stayed twenty-four hours on
its premises; fáltame carefully visit Rome and Naples.

  Y Now they are collected and digest my impressions Italy, the reader
is to me a short expedition to that was a Lola Montes theater day,
and from there to Vienna.

  

  
  # Germany. #
  
  Berne to Munich, capital of Bavaria, there is only one walk.

  
  
  This circumstance, which gave me the desired pleasure little
  known in Germany, the more people thinker Europe, I decided to
  take a short walk from Berne to Munich, and thence to Vienna.

  
  
  From the federal capital of Switzerland to Zurich, diligence travels
  the distance in thirteen hours: there we take the short stretch
  of road there is iron, it rises back up to the care for three hours,
and arrive at the border of Bavaria, and from there to Munich, railroad,
three hours.

  
  
  Communications in Germany are somewhat different from all the rest
  of Europe: the severe formality that characterizes children of
  the Germania, even in the most insignificant detail life, a special
character to all that they do, to everything they undertake.

  
  
  The dignity and humble spirit together, make the German complacent
beings and formal, which I prefer with great interest to the false
and courtesy of the French, dry and tasteless roughness of the English,
and to the humiliating hint of Italian.

  
  
  I love Germany, I had the pleasure and satisfaction to see confirmed
  the views he had formed of European nations that I visited before
  leaving Spain.
  
  True to judge people is indispensable visit: the frequent and
  continued dealings with foreign make it disappear completely
  and forever that prevention to treat them has even the most educated
  man when it has not never left his country. They see and learn
  many new things widens the circle of knowledge, takes an idea
  some of the state of people living beyond the borders of their country,
  they acquired imperceptibly and without noticing a sum of special
knowledge, studying, see, touch, compare, it runs exactly on rise
and fall of nations.

  We analyze the spirit age of each village, attends to his interior
  life, you learn much in a word.
  
  There is no book more precious than the journey, that is, to put
  well, a geography practice: but it is also true, resuming truncated
my thought, there can be a general ideas form on other countries without
leaving their own, and those are precisely what I have confirmed with
my travels.

  
  

  Always my predilection In reviewing the nations remember to Germany.

I
  hasten to protest against the deduction that could be assuming
  that in politics I prefer the larger system German governments,
  not in any way, and even this protest was useless, as are written
  and published my opinions on the government of Austria.

  
  
  No, not that, I mean the German intelligence, German thinker of the
German writers, of Germany studious and serious, the German-educated
and deep.

  
  
  It is without doubt the most advanced nation Germany in Europe
  lyrics, the more people who meditate and read, the people who have
more literary consciousness, but righteousness thinker, if I use the
phrase.

  
  
  To enter Germany and begins to feel the noise leaky press books,
  the flight of the illustrated newspapers circulating, faces begin
  to be serious that the study and only the study folding, not the
political turmoil in other countries, not in existence as stunned
more.

  
  
  In Germany, unlike France, is read and studied more than is written.

  But by chance something can be compared in these two peoples?

The
  literary Spain is very popular in Switzerland and Germany, and
  England also, in Germany especially, where ceaselessly studies
  and results, comments and admires the literary treasure our country.

  

  
  But let's get into Munich, that but never arrive.
  
  A circumstance indispensable for foreigners who visit the capital
  of Bavaria and want to take full advantage is ... of knowing buried
in his stomach at least a dozen glasses of beer per day means, if
you can drink more better.

  
  
  No joke that just joined, it is true, drink beer all day and everywhere,
  with it you engage the illustrated literary polemics that make
  up life at Munich; as it appears it facilitates the use of
  the word discútense arts, literature, history, every day,
  forever, "but How? admirable, admirable, with deep knowledge, spirit
quite clear, with sound and high critical.

  
  

  In Germany it happens everyday to review the literatures of Europe,
  but magazine thorough, reasoned, profound.
  
  To enjoy the immense charm, which to me is, to discuss on letters,
  you need to know to drink beer is not beer of London, is not giving
  pale ale in the taverns of capital of Albion and the British hold
dear, no, is a nice beer that I liked very, very much, for using I
witnessed it lively and interesting discussions.

  
  

  The first visit abroad in Munich is the famous gallery of paintings
  that enriches the city [29].
  
  There is certainly plenty to see and admire in the Museum of Munich.
  It consists of nine rooms, there are superb collections of painters
  Flemish and German; delicious paintings of the Italian school and
marvelous pictures of the Spanish; there Murillos, Zurbaranes and
Velasquez, the sculpture gallery is rich in monuments Ancient Greece
and works of Canova.

  
  
  The formation of the Munich museum has chaired the order and good
  taste, the enlightened monarch who has been at the forefront
  of nation until recently, that monarch artist who has made many
  trip to Rome just to study, that both protected the artists, has
spent many sleepless nights at the magnificent gallery I speak