 Raymond arrived at that moment. The lady put her finger on the lips making sign to
stay away. Irene did not notice anything. When he returned to his side Clementina gave account,
in tears and sighs, of the wrongs that her husband had inferred that night. First, Emilio
Hungarian dressed to come to the dance. Irene had observed as he entered, dressed Mary Huerta
also Hungarian. They must have agreed, what which was a shame that more than one person had
noticed. After dancing a waltz and quadrille. While it lasted, Emilio had not stopped to speak
to the ear. All night he had been serving the same as a servant, have the same sources of sweets
and fruit ices. Once, to give one of these, he had pressed his fingers, well I had seen. This was
indecent! Irene wanted to commit suicide. Rather die a thousand times to suffer such torments.
Clementina consoled as he could. Emily loved her so much: it consisted. Only men maybe have these flashes,
which called bullfighters strangers. As the heart is not concerned, letting loose a moment and
become disgusted with what they truly love.

To fix a little and wash the eyes would not take her to the toilet dance: subióla the the duchess.
After a few minutes down both. Irene promised not to disclose his penalty. As Clementina Pepa
learned what had happened, was angry in a way that felt the need to contain it so that it was
not a scratch to his son.

- Well, if I scratch him now, I shall scratch later - he said, shrugging his shoulders with
indifference. So it was resolved -. Whatever happens, I can not agree that this marmoset mate
my daughter, you know ... And as for that slut earless, I will not
rest until the spit in the face ... and her husband's bastard, just
.... As we are Aviados!

- Is not it better that you try rid of them?

Huerta is in the Ministry. Watch see if you send a governor anywhere ....

- It's true! Now I'm going to talk to Arbós .... But what son is not my master I forgive you!
... Tonight to me paid, or not call me Pepa.

The duke, always surrounded by a group of faithful, left vex censer beating, dropping at long intervals
some spiritual that electrified growl, made them burst into exclamations joy. The ladies were most
distinguished by their enthusiasm. The genius speculator of dizziness Salabert infused them with
astonishment, as if it were publicly to calculate how many dresses could buy with his millions.
And he, as generally flexible, which had come to put occupied, as he himself confessed, by
dint of kicks in the butt, to be among his worshipers mercilessly mistreated. His jokes brutal,
as falling on men that on the ladies. Enjoyed in the barbaric display of his strength. If those
devotees Fans were left not so patiently humiliate them anything, what would not happen if I bestow
including their millions, if the calf of gold began to vomit coins?

In the playroom, where he was fired after the sovereigns, it had materially
blocked a portion of speculators in the second and third row.

- How
are the actions of Rios, Duke?

"- He dared to ask one.

- Do not talk to me about that - growled the grim hero rolling her eyes.

Llera plan was unfolding on time: that is, the duke, after taken an increased number of shares
dealt in producing a panic among the shareholders. A few months ago that through secret agents
to sell the shares bought instant loss. Thanks to these operations, the paper had dropped
considerably.

Now preparing the final blow, buying most for fling market, this advantage of the low yield and acquire
half plus one of the actions.

- Not all businesses have to do well - said the other smiling with
ill-concealed satisfaction -.

You have always been lucky ....

- It is not Fortune who owes his success to the duke. In his genius, his ability inconceivable
is to whom should - said a third herding a stench of incense.

-
No doubt, no doubt - was quick to say the other instead of trying
to seize the censer -.

The Duke is the first financial genius to come out in our country. I do not understand how is not given the
Spanish Treasury.

If he does not fix, do not expect salvation us ....

- Well, if I
hit a save as successful in the business of rivers, are the Spanish
Aviados - uttered Duke tow moody accent.

- But has the business gone
bad?

- F. ...! for the Government, but for me, I've made a par actions,
I think has not been good.

The Duke has been blamed him as the animal put its administrator, Llera, which he had gone over
his head against all his hunches.

- Men like you should not rely on anyone but his instincts - he said
-.

When it is the business genius ....

And the word genius came at every moment to the lips of the faithful idolatrous calf.

Suddenly appeared at the door of the room followed Clementina Osorio,
Mariana and Calderon.

The four brought the countenance anxious and scared.

His eyes fell at once Salabert to which moved abruptly.

- Dad, listen to a word - he said Clementina.

Salabert highlighted the group and went to meet with others in the
opposite corner.

- That woman is there !...-- it said in an agitated
voice, eyes flashing with anger.

- It's a scandal! - Said Osorio.

-
Some people have already gone, and as they learn, they will all -
he said more calmly Calderón.

- What woman is there? - Duke asked
opening her eyes bulging.

- That woman!

... Amparo that the Malaga - said his daughter looking more contemptuous tone.

- What? - Said the Duke, with deep amazement -.

Have you dared to report that z ---- at the dance? Who has missed? Tomorrow goalkeeper dismissal.

- No, it's the one to fire her right now is ... In seguidita! - Clementina said tripping over by
anger.

- Yes, yes ... now! How so?

Daring that shameless to set foot in this home and such a day!

Have you no shame? Have you no shame? What country are we? But how it happened? A party that
had begun so well!

- He brought invitation, apparently.

- As has been stolen or is counterfeit.

- Well, well, we conclude soon - irritated voice said Clementina -.
It's in the classroom.

You need to go to there and to notify that you please leave, in a manner best you think .... But soon!
rather than what people perceive ... and above all, Mom ....

- No, girl, I'm not going .... I know well and know I could not contain
my indignation.

We attention should be drawn at this time .... You go, you go ... and beat it soon ....

Clementina, without saying another word, he briskly walked away, his face pale and contracted, trembling
lips. He rushed into the vortex of the rooms and looked anxiously at the intruder. It did not
take many minutes to find it oh shame! arm of the Marquis de Dávalos.

It was splendidly beautiful former florist in his suit of Mary Stuart. He wore an overcoat sleeves
slashed open, crimson embroidered with gold, an elegant lacy enamel and tiny flowers and pearls.
Her incomparable beauty further angered anger Clementina.

The beautiful odalisque Salabert, although very limited intelligence, had time to reflect their
presence in the dance might lead to conflict. But her craving was so Live and disorderly, which
was determined not to leave to meet, show off their expensive dress Queen of Scotland. He thought
he could overcome this difficult situation going to last minute taking
a few laps through the halls and retiring soon.

Bearing was accompanied by a friend venerable-looking old.

Must have experienced bitter disappointment when to enter the Banquet
and encountering a distinguished portion of who was wild with privacy,
Pepe Castro, Count of Agreda, Maldonado and others, noted that all
turned their backs and hurried away.

Only the faithful Manolo, the mad Marquis de Dávalos, recognized
and consented to the decline of offering his arm.

A few minutes could enjoy support from Malaga.

When a triumphant smile folded and his lips and was slow and stately
giving his coveted around the halls, the Clementina was suddenly face.

Without any greeting or the slightest inclination head or ignore
any of his companion, that he put his hand on his shoulder, telling
her:

- Have the kindness to hear a word.

Mary Stuart turned pale, hesitated a moment, and then said firmly and proudly wave:

- I have nothing to talk to you. Who want to see is the landlord, the Duke of Requena.

Margaret of Austria who nailed a angry eyes, the other said without
blinking.

Then mouth close to his ear, he said in angry tone:

- If you do not follow me now, I call two servants to being pulled out of the room by force.

The
Queen of Scotland shivered, but still had the courage to answer:

-
I want to see the Duke.

- The Duke is not visible for you .... Follow
me, or call!

And while he glanced around as if to keep his promise.

The Stuart paled even more. Shedding Dávalos arm followed the end.

This scene was observed by several people, but no one dared to follow
if not Manolo insane, which he did from afar.

Philip III's wife went to the lobby and there told a lackey

- The cover of this lady.

Not another word was spoken. The groom gave his coat. Mary Stuart-handedly put anyone, with a trembling
hand. Then walked a few steps, and turning suddenly, he directed a look of deadly hatred Ms Margaret
of Austria, who handed it back together with a sneer.

God was the unfortunate Queen of Scots was to be humiliated forever. First I was by his aunt Elizabeth
of England. Queen Margaret now put it bluntly in out on the street. Where he found his venerable
friend into and the car. To see the beginning the last scene had slipped cautiously. Before splitting,
the Marquis of Dávalos joined them. We do not know what the rooms Requena won in its moral aspect
with the departure of Mary Stuart, but we can say that they lost much in the aesthetic. Because,
in truth, I was pretty.

The dance was ending. Began preparations for the great party favors. The crowd had cleared
a bit.

Some left before the end of the dance, mostly old who was hurting the late nights. Among the ladies
was the agitation and movement always precedes the cotillion. In this last stage, the dance
takes on a family recreation very pleasant. The art and imagination involved to extract sensuality
and make a hobby innocent, beautiful style festivals in the fourteenth
century were held in halls England and France.

Marriageable age for girls is usually also the moment you end the first act of the comedy
of love that have begun to represent.

Pepe Castro had received advice from his former mistress Clementina
regarding the advisability to celebrate the apple of Calderon, with
laughter as we have seen.

However, did not sit in deaf ears. As he danced and joked with other girls, did not fail to remember more
than once.

By the cotillion Esperancita approached asking if I wanted to be your partner, knowing that this
could not be, as all are quick to ask Pollastre that thanks to the ladies and entering the
dance.

But it suited for the plan began to unfold in your brain, fruitful abstractions. The girl had
in fact committed to the count de Agreda, but on hearing the application
for Castro, he felt such desires to access it, which yes amazing audacity.

The

Duchess lady appointed as director to the Countess of Cotorraso, which joined Cobo Ramirez. This was imposed
at all the balls as party favors very able director. As was the case, that many days before the
dance had already held long conferences with Clementina about this most essential point.

Formosa the circle of chairs. Pepe Castro went to get Hope, who took his arm good grade. But
before taking a step forward was the Count de Agreda.

- How, Esperanza!

Had I not given you the cotillion? - Asked surprised.

The audacity not abandoned the child, the audacity of the woman in love.

- Oh, pardon me, Leo! When I granted what you remembered that I had already committed Pepe - replied
in a tone that could envy the most accomplished actress.

The count withdrew saying a few words of courtesy, they could not
hide his bad mood.

When they were alone, Esperanza, afraid of that testimony was given interest Castro was quick to
apologize blushing.

- The truth is that I remembered that I had committed to Leon .... And as already taken the arm
of you ... and also the count dances in a manner that distresses me a lot ....

Pepe Castro did not abuse its triumph manifested modest and submissive. Instead of flirting
shamelessly adopted a more ingratiating temperament, filling it with delicate care, establishing
more trust between them, showing, in a word, much love, but without speaking of love. The girl
was full of joy. Espezaba to feel adored. I thought that sympathy and affection with who had
always treated Pepe and she finally transformed into love. His heart began happily jump into
the chest.

Ramon was also satisfied with this exchange. The Count de Agreda it was a short time back very unfriendly,
almost as unpleasant as Cobo Ramirez, because he began to feel he same jealousy than the other.
Instead, Pepe Castro considerábalo as his very self, another councilman slimmer. The attention that
Esperancita kept him, would take them as directed at their own person. So, when he saw the
arm, was deeply moved, and approach them for insignificant say a few words could not help blushing.
Pepe winked Malicious as saying: "You have succeeded in every line." Councilmember Young felt
that giant steps closer to achieving their hopes and the height of his happiness.

The cotillion was decent shot of that brilliant dance. The fantasy of Cobo Ramirez, pressed the
seriousness of the case, delighted guests with pilgrims delicate traces and devices: had disposed
of about an hour. He drew attention, and earned unanimous acclaim, a ring game organized in the middle
of the room. Queen knights divided into two crews, who shot arrows
alternately gorgeous golden arches around the ring suspended by a
ribbon from the ceiling.

The victors had the right to dance with the ladies the vanquished, while they had to continue
giving the air with the fan. Organizóse then another set of tapes for the ladies. The winner
came a time of games and appeared then in a chariot drawn by four
footmen dressed in black-given and a turn surrounded by all others,
to the beat of a triumphal march.

These and other no less famous inventions, forever left sitting on a solid foundation of Fame
son of the Marquis of Casa-Ramírez.

Over the cotillion began the parade of people.

It was a precipitous withdrawal.

All that crowd rushed to the lobby and on the steps, talking loudly, laughing, crying ever claim
the car.

The vast garden, lit by a few electric light bulbs, looked quite
fantastic, implausible, as the landscapes of the peep show.

Those white lights, intense, made even more black and deep foliage, erasing boundaries Park
extending beyond measure. The night was clear. In the eastern Azul the aurora. It was very cold.
Wrapped in fur coats, wild youth burned the last rounds of their
ingenuity in honor of the beautiful ladies who were near.

Expensive and colorful coats they screamed under the light bulbs. The pawing horses, the servants
cried, and the cars, slowly approaching the steps, crunching sand roads. Shots rang doors, kissing
noise, voices Farewell.

The wheel of the car, passing in front of the grand staircase, was
snatching little by little to those who were there to disperse around
Madrid in search of rest.

Pepe Castro had been placed next to Esperanza and spoke softly in
his ear.

The girl, muffled to the eyes, smiled without looking.

When his car arrived at last shook long hands.

- I do not suppose we have so long neglected up to now, which will be at home most often - yet she
said taking her hand in the wild gallant.

- Do you really want to go home often? - Said staring at her as a
magnetizer.

- You bet I do!

In saying this strongly reddened under her veil, and releasing his hand sharply, followed her
mother who entered the carriage.

Pepa Frias had told his daughter:

- Look, girl, when we leave, I
want Emily to accompany me.

I'm nervous and could not sleep if not set before the accounts. I want no more scandals, you
know? I'm going to direct the ultimatum. If it persists, you're coming with me and he is going
to hell.

I was furious.

His daughter, even if I wanted to object to this separation, as adored
her cheating husband, did not dare.

He lowered his head submissively. When it came time to go, Pepa went to his son:

- Emilio, do me the favor to accompany me. I want to talk to you.

"Bad!" the young man said to himself.

- Irene E?

- Let him go alone. No wolves eat it - responded harshly.

"Too bad!" turned to Emilio said.

In fact, Irene directing glimpses of fear and anxiety to her mother and her husband went alone
in the saloon, while they rose to the first.

As the carriage began to roll, Emilio, to disarm his mother, wanted, like a child I was, pulling
the beam deflect a conversation that could entertain.

- Did you see what Amparo audacity? The thought capable of many follies, but not One like.

And he spoke of with great verbosity Amparo not get your mother's
lips unfold. The same happened when he began to comment about Salabert
fortune of Dancing costs, the extraordinary honor that he earned the
sovereign that night, etc.., etc. Pepa reclining in his corner, he
quietly announced that fierce no good. But Emilio, confidently, skillfully
played key responding in all women.

- Do you know, Pepa (thus kept
calling, like when I was her daughter's boyfriend), which in a group
where he was President of the Council heard inadvertently praise you?
Much lauded the costume, but still the figure. Said there was no girl
in dance that could compete with the freshness of you, that you had
a skin like satin, every day smoother and brighter.

- Jesus, what
nonsense! These are antics, Emilio. At one time, I say ....

- No,
Pepa, no, the proverbial skin of you are in Madrid. And would give
anything to have him Irene like you.

- Is it better than Maria Huerta?
- Asked ironic twang, which not guessed, no But much irritation.

Pepa
plan had changed: he thought it would be much better to take the diplomatic
channel. A boy as Emilio, who had been unruly until then, it was easy
to lure him with affection. He, in the darkness of the car had been
red.

- The Mary Huerta is worthless.

- So you like. All men are
the same thing about changing the ears and tail. Look, Emilito - said
taking his hand, - I had to reñirte much talk very seriously say bitter
things ... but I can not, I have a heart so stupid that for all offenses
is apologize. Today you have made a mark evil thing, enough to Irene
to separate from you, but to me it seems to me that is not as great
as it sounds, because you are a dazed boy. I'm sure you yourself do
not you explain the seriousness of it ....

Pepa continued his sermon
sweet tone and persuasive. Emilio, he expected a dash of insult, was
pleasantly surprised. Escuchólo with submission, and then, with trembling
voice, began to apologize. Truth that had flirted a bit with Mary
Huerta, but swore he was not interested in her. It was a matter of
pride. When he was married to Irene, Mary had told this house Osorio
Irene did not understand how a husband accepted a guy so ugly and
pointless. Then swore he would swallow those words was already achieved.