 

CHAPTER XV # animals Rica mountain forest vegetation, shrubs, grassland
and moss, mountain seems poor animal would be almost completely empty
if the pastor did not take their herds of cows and sheep are on the
green grass, the white dots or red, and if not jealous cattle dogs
run continuously to the right and left, making the echoes repeated
barking.

These are temporary migrants in spring rose from the plain, which
is back in the winter because they do not hide behind the stables
in the villages of the valley.

The only child of climbing the mountain slopes are insects found crossing tracks, scurrying through
the grass, or whizzing through the air, butterflies black notice among them a Erebus metallic
luster and magnificent Apollo, life flits among other flowers bloom here and there, some reptiles disappear
between some rocks. Few birds singing in the silent forest. However, mountain, natural fortress
that stands between the fields, has also guests: some fearful fugitives seeking refuge inaccessible
to other thieves bold predators to examine the horizon of its distance advantage before taking
their trip robbery . Weird and cowardly people who understand unbroken beasts that destroy and kill
others are only the most admired. They would gladly copyright, and in myths, fables, legends and
even in an old book of natural history, they are given the name of
kings.

Let's start with the eagle and other birds of prey and carnivores
that all owners have chosen as an emblem, sometimes putting them two
heads, if they wanted them to have two mouths to devour.

It is certainly nice when planted on the rock eagle lofty inaccessible people, and even more magnificent
when floating in calm air space sovereignty. But it matters little beauty.
If the king likes hating pastor, and declared war on the enemy, the
herd.

Soon will be eagles, vultures and more GIPACT museums: it is seen more in the mountains or a nest,
or one that is not saved more than a solitary and wary bird, old,
crippled and half eaten by worms.

Also, the bear is a devourer of rams, and sooner or later destroy the shepherd in the mountains.
Despite his prodigious force that crushes the bones not art, a favorite
of kings, that finding would not be smart enough to be on their clothes,
however, many people love him for his skills and he feels that aims
Hunter even inadvertently, a certain sympathy.

Ostiak after his last shot and tended, covered in blood in the snow, kneeling in front of the court
to ask for his forgiveness and tells him: "I killed, but we were hungry, my family and me, and
you so Well, my God, you will have to forgive my sin. " However, it makes us the effect of a
god, but it seems fair, honest and kind. How well the virtues practiced by the family! What's good for
their offspring, and how happy they are jumping and cranky! patriarchal customs that we hear so much
praise, will have to find its nest cave bear or big, comfortable,
lined with moss. The truth is that the animal occasionally gives some
bite to shepherd the sheep, but generally the same sobriety. Bilberry
leaf chewing Content grazing, taste of honey combs: sometimes risk
up to the beach to go quietly to eat grapes and pears in a plant that
produces them.

Tsendi, Swiss naturalist, says parole if the animal is well on the way to the girl with her basket of
strawberries, with the leg slightly under the basket to request your part. And when they come
to serve man is a kind and generous: it has good humor and not take into account the insults.