 The Payaguá the usually
expect a multitude of very light canoes, each of which are six or seven men, and to avoid detection,
they come with their canoes under the branches of trees, coming to play in the water: and when they
pass the Portuguese, the assault of a sudden and give them a volley of arrows, throwing Portuguez
always white, and lie on canoes can take, and collecting gender and blacks, are lowered to
the Assumption, where the Spanish out of compassion to rescue the captives. To avoid the Portuguese
these assaults and damage Payaguá do in their fleets, have reinforced the call of war canoe,
for the escort from the Tacuarí to Cuiaba.

The weapons of war canoe is a bronze Cañoncillo a rod or something else long, which promptly fired
several shots. And for this they bear in their drawers well conditioned cartridges, made of
canvas instead camellote because in this way prevent is some fire in the canyon, and say they are
not so hot, although shoot then with that many shots Cañoncillo. The alacrity with which soar,
due partly to have everything ready, and be able to easily handle the gun for being so short,
and partly because those who exercised four well concur in charge: one with the cartridge, other
with the heel and attacked, one with a fuse that sticks in the stove filled with gunpowder not
stopping at prime, and the other end with boot-fire. The Cañoncillo, although it is well strengthened,
not unlike some other guns in his factory. Only the carriage is somewhat different, because
it has no wheels and is arranged with its spigot such luck on a bank of the canoe, which can
easily get to all parts, and so shooting a hand, they can come back and shoot the other.

The crew of the war canoe consists of twelve soldiers and their ensign,
and eight or nine black spade oars in their uniforms.

The ensign is in the canoe for sun protection and rain His chariot very good with curtains and
seats. The soldiers are also in canoe through the canopy off for safekeeping. The rowers are
to the fore and aft, and one with the blade serves as a helmsman.

To sleep, and those of war canoes as the load, looking preventable
any camp site before nightfall on the river bank, where the mountain
is very close, and have overgrown with weeds and thorns, of which
the land is in abundance among the trees.
