 

Thus Dona Luz confided all his secrets to the doctor's daughter.

The friendship of two young women narrowed since then, and beyond it all trusted.

The marriage of Donna Manolita did for the post. A month after giving his side friend was already
married.

His prediction that his marriage did not cool the friendship with Dona Luz was fulfilled to
the letter. Doña Manolita was a great prophet.

Also served as compared with Pepe Güeto she had predicted. Nor was there rod wicker, and she came
over in sewing when I was single, but instead, Pepe Güeto laughed like crazy, especially with
his wife's jokes, which made him very much, and with their laughter
they had for him a lot of pleasantly contagious.

For Dona Luz months passed between both, no other news that the alternate
and regular exchange stations.

Spent the spring, spent the summer and until the month of October,
station vintage.

Something very important would have to say D. Acisclo Dona Luz, when
one morning, having now harvested, came to see her and speak not less
morning that Dona had come Manolita months earlier.

E Villafría reached late at night and handed out at dawn.

Don Acisclo open and brought a letter in his hand, shook with cheers and expressions of satisfaction
and joy.

-VII-

Father Henry

- What? What does that letter? What pleasant news in it? D. Acisclo, have you fallen V. the
lottery? - asked Dona Luz.

- Better than that, my dear, better than that - said the questioning -. Read and find yourself
- and delivered the letter to Dona Luz.

This, before reading, he met the letter and saw the sign that said,
"Enrique."

He was a nephew son of a sister D. Acisclo had, which was a Dominican
friar nephew, resident in the Philippines.

Almost all those who deny it rich perhaps, fortune, fate or luck, they will names seem futile,
behind which hides the sloth, waste, clutter and foolishness. From here to be taken by people wiser,
more reasonable wittiest and wisest of the earth. And can they about
right. I do not deny nor affirmed. I only say that D. Acisclo was.
I was very happy of himself and imagined had no merit higher than
yours. All other glory seemed to him less and less carats. However,
a glory to something supernatural and otherworldly, if not in means
in the end, and acquired by member of his family, did not seem to
D. Short Acisclo not assert, and such was the glory of his nephew
Fr Enrique; glory that is somewhat reflected on him and the whole
family. Was almost a couple of the money acquired ring nobility to
his house.

Don Acisclo idolized, then Fr Henry, and spoke of him
with complacent boasting, saying:

- Here we serve for all, the same
for a scrub that sweep, I wanted to be a millionaire and I am, Henry
gave the sanctity and still we have to look at the altars -. To demonstrate
and the probable fulfillment of his prediction, D. Often referred
Acisclo adventures Fr Henry: so that Dona Luz known and regarded him
as a friend, even though it was about twenty years he was missing
the place and Europe