 Almudena treated her,
with success, since it was orphaned, and dragged her so, and gave him three things a little:
advice, charity and a stick. Met him one day his scrofula healing with juice fig pear, and aligned
by the hair to the sun. Propúsole to go with them, paying each half of the rent of the house,
and her commitment to root out vice drinking. Discussed, parliament, God solemnly to the convention,
pledging both their faithful adherence to a sticky plaster and broken comb picks, and slept
that night Pedra in the fourth of Santa Casilda. The first few days all was harmony, sobriety drinking,
but the goat was not long in throwing the mountain, y. .. devilish female again having fun
and giving the guys that make the Order.

"Unable to me with it. B'rracha forever. It's a pain ... pain. I be out of pity she Migo ...».

Seeing that the two women, after poked a couple of inks, mocking the
blind looked and Benin, it was afraid and wanted to retire.

"Dir not you, Amri. Migo be - he said the blind man holding her arm.

- I fear that arming these indinas anger ... Come here now. "

Aproximáronse the such, and the Benina could see and examine your face like the Peter, a bleak
beauty and bouncing. Morena, factional as regular as pronounced magnificent black eyes, eyebrows
that join wriggling, and well strummed dirty mouth, which did not
seem made to smile, body straight and esbeltísimo in his weakness
and disarray, the companion Almudena was a tragic figure, and as such
Benina impressed, although this did not express his trial, but thought
that you'd be afraid to meet that person, at night, instead alone.

From Diega could not determine if it was young or between-old. For like a child's height; the
emaciated face and neck rugged, all folds, a decrepit old woman, for the eyes, a lively little
animal.

His weakness was so extreme that he could not help Benina comment Andalusian mentally to use
a phrase used to his wife: "This is one of the thorns that take with
your elbows.

"

Peter sat down, giving good morning, and the other he stood up, without
raising the ground rather than Almudena's head, on whose shoulders
he slaps strong.

"Tati still - he said this brandishing the stick.

- Beware of he
who is evil and treacherous ...-- said the other.

- Jai ... Is it
true that you are wrong and you hit me?

- I ero beno, you bad, b'rracha.

-
Do not say that the old lady will be shocked.

- Elderly not be her.

-
What do you know if you do not see?

- Decent her.

- Yes it will,
without offending.
