 In each street,
every corner, every doorway or wall, balcony or window, you see some precious object to the
antiquarian, surprising for the traveler who goes first as a city special like that. Here there
is a beautiful mosaic piece, a beautiful marble tile, a rare bust of stone or a historical inscription;
there with ogival window, a balcony Moorish, an unusual viewpoint, a Gothic turret or a lamentable
debris. Toledo is the cemetery magnificent two civilizations, two races, each building is a tomb
and each door or wall contains an epitaph ....

We hasten to speak of that wonderful bygone quickly called the Fortress, for end with the monumental
and show the reader some features of the social physiognomy of Toledo. This remarkable ruin is
situated on the eastern side of the city on a hill overlooking while the depths to Toledo and
the Tagus. The foundations and different bodies and Alcazar facades dating from very different
eras. Founded in the same place a fortress Roman, Gothic and immediately after Arabic, the
conqueror of Toledo, Alfonso VI, several times mentioned, gave more great ways, governor of
the castle doing nothing less than the Cid heroic. Many kings improved on the famous fortress,
until Charles V decided to demolish almost all buildings over, keeping only a facade Gothic cellars
and formidable foundation. Felipe II finished the work, invested in her fifty years that have
passed from 1534 to 1584, and worked there the most eminent artists as Villalpando, Covarrubias
and Juan de Herrera. In 1710 was burnt the palace-fortress admirable by Allied troops who fought against
Philip V in the war of succession. Restored care, incendiáronlo his turn in 1810 the invading French troops,
leaving small to a sublime debris. Today there are but the interior and exterior walls, the
towers broken, the four splendid facades, basements and foundations, no no roofs, torn arcs
that bound the walls, empty holes of the balconies and all in ruin.

! But what a ruin! That is impressive and grand as a mountain naked,
indestructible granite and brick hard.

To wander in the midst of these colossal masses, for those big stone steps on many vaults of unprecedented
strength and singular audacity, and in the dark depths of the vast underground (which once harbored
entire infantry regiments and cavalry), one feels possessed of a deep respect for the genius of the
architects, and acquires, questioning the echoes of these formidable works, the whole idea of ??a
civilization terrible, founded on force and artificial antagonism, from whose womb was born,
for a of these wonders of the divine mystery of progress, the new civilization that has its only
principle of freedom and justice.

The Alcazar is a 200 square feet per side, which has four different
facades, magnificent, that despite some general harmony correspond
to different styles of architecture dominate the Renaissance.

One of the facades, the oldest, is Gothic in its general character, although its details later, is of
the Renaissance. Four massive towers, at the corners, frame the building, giving different aspects according
to the side where it provides. It consists of three parts or floors, excluding the basement,
which is on one side. The interior is sumptuously snatching, in spite of its ruinous state. The
Super Cellars palace-fortress that could contain thousands of soldiers, prisoners and horses,
food, and ammunition and weapons on a large scale, in short, a whole small army garrison or
strong, can withstand long siege. A huge subway leading from the bottom of this artificial
mountain to the very distant margin the Tagus, to a great depth, to give drink to the horses,
take water river, etc.., etc. This was great about the system architecture of old Spain, which
has left everywhere the most superb monuments.

* * * * *

Nothing more interesting than the spectacle of the plazas and streets
of Toledo during the procession Holy Thursday.

       Of course it chose for the passage of Christ and the Virgin streets
less impossible, the ecclesiastical and popular support has to go
through the most large cracks to find a way out for those possessed
outstanding and air passages free.

Everyone is close, rubs, put in the press and choke, resulting from confusion and distress the most
striking contrasts in the thousand groups that move among those gorges. The sumptuous luxury
of the great lady from Madrid or Toledo, covered in velvet, of rich lace and jewels, there has
to rub against the RAID layer of cloth and peeled time light brown and grimy after a yellow
inscrutable, which is the ornament Toledo indispensable, - worker, treating or beggar, and the
manchego and all inhabitants of Castile.

In Toledo absolutely missing in the lower classes these colorful costumes, colors Live and whimsical
cuts, which are in Valencia, Seville and other cities less impregnated Castilian applications.
In Toledo everything is sad, and a man of some comfort, as artisan and the Pauper, all have
an air of antiquity, sorrow, ruin and misery The dark makes the eyes
of travelers.

When I wandered through the long and complicated tumult of the procession, carried away in all
directions by a yellowish layer wave blankets and black, seemed to me to attend a carnival of death.
Over my head, at one and On the other hand, saw the low balconies full of women and children,
looking to crush the pedestrians falling like huge clusters, while the appearance of the streets
and mobility of shadowy groups had no resemblance to know what the tiny waves and rock groups
black within a reef, waving wildly in a storm day.

The bands of beggars swarm and travel there everywhere, besieging the country without truce.
Surrendered to fight with the masses movent in the procession, I sat on a bench stone in the shade
of some trees in the main square, called Oven Biscuits. Was thirsty and bought some oranges.
Cayéronme point in sheaf closed, seven or eight guys hungry, the
closest, asking each one an orange, or a little kid, as they call
beggars copper coins called farthing.

Alejáronse happy to receive some coins, and I thought his release quietly eating my oranges.
But in brief attacked again in greater numbers, to contest the bark that I threw to the ground;
and I had to get in except that no halt between prepubertal maelstrom of beggars. They are not enough
coins and oranges, because in a moment swallowed all bark like pieces of bread!

That scene affected me deeply, especially since I knew that this example of misery was no exception.
Toledo, however much they do not come out of poverty. It is a rubble will not resurrection but
to under extraordinary efforts. Being the mother church the country (where the canons are very
happy) and having a great school and a military garrison wonderful sights and a total lack
of industry, Toledo is a set of four main revealed in four different dresses: the cassock of the
priest, the uniform of turns yellow and red military, odd overseas
elegant avocado, and layer ratty beggar's sickening.

Founded with a military target, according to the ideas of another civilization, - to be a strength
- the isolation is the condition of Toledo. You can not have industry because no water to move
machines, but having no tanks or tanks, nor has elements for trade and agriculture, for its exceptional
position. Toledo, then, will remain sublime ruin, a great curiosity and nothing more: the museum of
old Spain, guarded by clerics, soldiers and beggars! ...

Toledo offered me the occasion to test my stomach and check the reputation (usurped legitimate
one and another) of the pot and wine rotten Valdepeñas. During the three days I spent in the imperial Toledo,
so beautifully sung by Zorrilla, I was forced to resign the flesh, receiving the law from the
situation. But as there was no fish, no eggs, no milk, is at the discretion of the cooked chickpeas
and other iniquities of Spanish cuisine, neutralizing something my misfortune with good shots
of an exquisite Valdepeñas. This, HOWEVER, had the audacity of subírseme at the head, without ceremony,
forcing me to multiply the brews coffee.

Finally had mercy on me and sent me the hostess serving pot .-- "A Spanish stew! I said with
transportation, let this be better than the Cathedral and the Alcazar. "

! Mentirosa illusion! I had already made some unsatisfactory experiences in Barcelona and Valencia,
on the rotten pot, and had found such sophistry as the monarchy Spain constitutional. In Toledo, the
illusion is over, the pot legitimate completed his mission on Spanish soil, now belongs to history as
the former greatness of the people conqueror of the New World. Today there are the glories
of the ignoble but chickpea stew cooked, capable of indigestible an elephant, the vile and
shameless pork sausage, which has lost its importance since the Moors
and Jews have accepted the wickedness of the kitchen and Christian
cellar.

Disappointed and hungry, I had to devote all my worship in Toledo Dining Valencia oranges to
rich and bold Valdepeñas.

Despite some unpleasant impressions, Toledo had pleased me much by his teaching social, no
less than its monuments. Had been able to compare the old Spain represented in Toledo, with Spain
and progressive regenerated revealed in Barcelona and Madrid - the first based on the isolation,
motionless, sluggish, too much prayer leader, miserable and begging: the second looking for progress
in freedom and movement, carefree, tolerant and thinking seriously about the future. I said
goodbye to Toledo as the one just visited a grave and out of the
cemetery to long strides back to look back from time to time, mixed
feelings of sadness and hope ....

* * * * *

CHAPTER V.

* * * *
*

LA MANCHA.

Two traveling companions aspects of the country .-- .-- .-- Memories of Don Quixote of La Mancha populations
- The Sierra Morena.

April was ended and the time to visit the fertile and beautiful Andalusia so full of memories, so
quaint and original in everything. I took the train from Alicante; Aranjuez train passed, and
Villasequilla Castillejo, and 100 kilometers from Madrid descended
the wagon, in Tembleque to take a seat in the diligence that would
lead to Granada, through the Montes de Toledo and Sierra Morena, Jaen
and passing.

       La Mancha had begun between Aranjuez (which belongs to the province
of Madrid) and Castillejo, corresponding population to that of Toledo.

The province of Ciudad Real, separated in part by the mountains of
Montes de Toledo, are the region of plains and mountains that had
the denomination naked Antique Mancha.

       

Tembleque is an important point in Spain's internal communications, it is not only happening there the
main rail, but leave the center of the roads leading one hand to
Granada and Malaga, Cordoba, Seville and Cadiz, and another to Ciudad
Real and Badajoz, through the center of the basin of the Guadiana.

With almost miserable hamlet, a plain, poor and marshy, and dominated by the hills south of
Toledo, Tembleque not started to rise again but under the train to Alicante. Its population
reaches just about 4,000 inhabitants, steady living in greater numbers, despite the production
of cereals, wine, some sheep and several coarse cloth mills and salt.

As I begin my journey to Andalusia fortune wanted to protect me. Lunch in the canteen (or buffet)
Tembleque the station, I found that my colleagues would care to be two French knights who were
traveling for pleasure. They could not speak a word of Spanish, and appeared to be subject of distinction,
able to please and instruct a teammate.

Your itinerary was equal to mine, and had for me the advantage of being Parisians. I wanted very
much to know privacy in the type of distinguished French province, because in general it was
not paid very Parisian world of man. Also wanted to teach me the things concerning to provincial
life in France, travel associated with smart people and watching how as the French judge to Spain.
We are, therefore, agreed that I would be his interpreter and would treat us like old friends.
They corresponded well to my desires, Today, after a long time, I see in either of two people who
never let me forget how France is good and honorable.

The mobile home called "diligence" drawn by ten mules started jumping like demons driving about
17 guests at discretion of 13 gross (assuming that drivers deserve be classed with mules).
In short save the Montes de Toledo by one of his best open, and we are in full Mancha, in the
great valley or plain that is central to Guadiana river, between the mountains of Toledo and Morena,
and extending the Estremadura, west, towards Portugal. This vast region we crossed from north to
south, is rather plains a number of more or less extensive than a great plain or valley. Wherever
the field is choppy, or by steps of the mountain side, which is moving towards the center,
or by cords or small isolated groups of hills that border the skyline.

The mountain ranges that dominate the region, almost completely bare and sterile, the dry ground,
its general composition of the different alluvial plain, the multiplied sloping hillsides, and
how the winds turn on so vast pit enclosed by all sides by mountains,
all that is determined not only the nature of the productions La Mancha,
but also isolation, immobility, customs and spirit of Mancha populations.

I have not ever seen more strange loneliness. They bring together the idea of opulence and of desolation,
hunger and abundance of life and death. No Spain is in a region that reveals as clearly as the fatal
Mancha action of Spanish misrule, the inability of supporters of isolation, flawed monastic institutions
and all that was the last of Spanish society.

The floor of the Mancha, sandy-clay in general (except limestone and granite rocks in the mountains)
is a huge filter. Wherever there swamps (and these are many) exterior dry land is absolute
rare streams. Penetrate water easily the sandy outer layer and stop at another thicker clay,
overlaid sediments to very strong.

Hence, while the water is that almost completely lack the surface, it is easily found in abundance
making excavations or wells, wells in the country called.