 800 Various drugs, timber, skins
of monkeys, parrots, etc. 1,000 Husk, 3.000 bushels at 8 pesos
[1]. 33,000 -------- TOTAL 129.800
                                                      
                                                The expenditure budget of the province is as follows:

Personal contribution
of indigenous peoples.

7,800 Customs duties. 16,000 Salaries of the priests, in fruits and
money.

12,000 ------- TOTAL 35.800

It is therefore the difference between the two totals, the
                                                province
                                         still has 94.000 pesos, serving this amount to its residents for
the purchase of merchandises that they come from without.

Exportation trade is done with the neighboring provinces, located
on the high plains Department of La-Paz, and some parts of Peru.

This trade, as told speaking parishes in particular, is pure barter, arranged on fictitious values
well below the positive value, resulting in fat therefore benefit from the merchants traveling,
going to end up Caupolican. Import trade items are: fresh or salt meat, tallow, cheese, bread, salt,
flour, brandy, all tected indigenous kinds of heavy wool and cotton for use by the Indians, some
portion European fabric for employees: the mules, horses and some burros charging transports.

Communication
facilities are in every country the first requirement for the advancement of trade and civilization.
In this regard, as must have been already interviewed by the itineraries that are detailed, poor
roads have always been in the province Caupolican main obstacle to the spread of trade: this
state of affairs was meanwhile maintained purpose by employees secular
or religious, in order to retain exclusively for them a monopoly of
trade-offs.

Having neglected as the government altogether and for a long time the repair of roads, there certainly
could not trade but at the risk of men and animals, so the dealer, to make sales, it looked
specified to count losses in the budget of the mules broke down and those that perished by
because of bad roads. The vast spaces of marshy land, on which were placed some trunks crossed to
facilitate the movement, were mostly transits danger, because where a log be missing after the
poor mule fell, breaking his leg, or sinking up to the meetings in the deep mud. Fortunately the
current government apply now by far attempted to improve these roads, anxious to give greater
impulsion to trade. Have renewed some old ones, and open a new one hase of twenty leagues, ranging
from Apollo to Guanay.

Meanwhile, personal charges weighing on the Indians of the interior, as required are to replace
the beasts of burden, transporting on their backs and very long distances all kinds of goods are
undoubtedly the cause that makes it late advancement trade in those regions, crippling the
very desire to reap the fruits nature spontaneously offers everywhere.

Improvements, agricultural, industrial and commercial center of the
province is susceptible.

This chapter should be very long, on account of the varied terrain and the various offshore areas than
is in the province, but as I have to consider, when talking about Moxos the question concerning
the warm plains and in the Yungas section regarding to the forested
mountains, warm and temperate, as well as that of La-Paz with respect
to the lofty plains and mountains bare and sterile, I refer to these
various provinces for indication of the best that are common to Caupolican,
siéndome allowed appreciate them much more success in those places,
since I've picked myself them very lengthy notes on the subject.

I shall therefore, for now, only those significant changes, which
seem to me most special to the province of Caupolican.

Just seen that today, in spite of the abundance of grasses eSCelente making the nature on the
heights of Pelechuco, near Pata, Santa-Cruz de Valle Ameno, Apollo and Aten, in spite of the
profusion offered to the plains of the inland districts, fresh meat and dried meat are among the
items of import trade.

If you promote the breeding of cattle, it is clear that instead of receiving the exterior, he would
become an important branch of trade out: The same would happen with
the herds sheep, which can multiply to supply to both their meat and
wool in abundance.

Equal proportion increasing by horses and mules, was significantly activated exportation of
fruits, contributing to this in the increase of the income the province and to the cessation of the
painful and degrading servitude of the Indians today Abbe inside, as they are forced to go to remote
points by the office of the beasts; freed from such a charge these
poor, then their days would use in working the land, or simply to
harvest the natural productions of the country, without which they
are entitled fair enough fear that forced them to dispose of before.

The vast extent of the inland plains Moxos serious as in the breeding center of any species of cattle,
they would move to fully look after a few years covering thousands of cows and horses. With
the possession of these, you would see the government of Bolivia gorging resourced to his army
resources that are quite distant possess the republics of Chile and Peru.

Moreover, the application to look beautiful dresses animal skins, such as the Marimonos black
and red, would not fail to produce large profits, just as conservation of large-animal skins,
which would become tanning hides the most suitable for car harnesses,
shall we say the same of the skin of the deer, that is so elastic
and soft as chamois leather, which the gloves manufactured in Europe
most esteemed, or more comfortable shoes.

Turtle eggs found on the banks of the Beni, Darien, through preparation used in the banks of the
Orinoco, the great turtle butter, one of the elements of the indigenous cuisine.

Having unparalleled abundance of fish found in the Beni River and its tributaries, points could
be brought about some fishing in all rules, then by keeping salting out her products, so as
to come to create a new and very important branch of exportation, which would not fail to be
estimated, especially in populations High Plains, as the cities of Oruro, La-Paz, etc.

The vegetation is what primarily offers significant improvements.

As soon as industry city ??takeover of the natural products of the interior, they will be filled
the malls of the most beautiful woods for cabinet, thus benefiting vast forests covering the
mountains and plains.

The box, now so scarce and so expensive in Europe, and you can not get large plates, he would
be replaced by those yellow wood, very abundant in those regions, and, besides being so strong
and compact as this, have the advantage of providing sheets of all sizes to recorders.

As to the drainers, not only would bring them trade their exquisite
coconut and rich wood cabinetry, but also its very useful to the oil
industry, as it would take advantage of almond Cavina.

Massive benefits would be obtained to look carefully and supplies various resins, especially copal,
which is the first element of the most beautiful varnish that was made in Europe.

The importance of rubber, used in Europe for the manufacture of various items such as corsets,
garters and braces or suspenders, is increased day to day, being the most important branch of
trade and industry of the inhabitants of Para, which are exclusively
devoted to his great culture, what deterrent is there for the rich
province of Caupolican can not do the same, being also possesses this
plant?

The scale, which for some years has given millions to trade, even
when not exhausted.

Until today only has practiced cut near inhabited areas, and much sludge mind the strategic
sites where they are.

According to reports I could gather, the Indians dedicated to this task are scattered through
the mountains, and so isolated one by one in the woods, cut the precious plant without any
kind of precautions without choosing the station even more appropriate to the case. Parag also devoid
where to put it in storage and covered against the frequent rains, often befalls the completely
ruin their stockpiles, or to see them largely damaged. As obvious as the harvest of the husk
is destined to be one of the safest classes of income State, would
agree that the authorities much rules the way to practice cutting,
dictating to do certain ordinances, whose main object was to put an
end to the destruction that spreads and spreads everywhere, leaving
the trail marked on some of its transit with the total absence of
trees that the hand of nature had planted.

The need to conserve its timber, woodworking and even those who are destined to serve as firewood,
forced to France, long ago, to create the Management Forests, which aims to cut abuses of
all kinds in order to conserve resources for the future. Time is now also to Bolivia, where he still
belongs to the state of half of the land, try to create a vigilant and active body that has
under his charge;

1, People of European trees such as spruce, birch or poplar, etc., Mountains adjacent to La-Paz,
Chuquisaca and Potosi, in order to provide to these great cities of firewood timber and joinery;

2
° prohibit, subject to more stringent penalties, clearing by fire, thus preventing to stop
the clouds gathered strength day by day the lack of moisture, and thus to deprive the fields of
natural irrigation, making them sterile, or let the rain rushing,
taking free passage, start and drag on the high topsoil, which was
followed naked and barren rocks in places where the trees grew more
beautiful;

3 ° Do the Indians pull up instead of cutting the bushes
that provide firewood and coal, so they can take these back to shoot,
having, moreover, that the courts are affected by successive boards,
which prevent the complete destruction is already done feeling on
many points where they grow woody plants

EXTRACTION 4 ° Practicing
the big scale, but according to certain ordinances, and setting primarily
the more favorable season, so while we may enjoy in all the product
of the annual harvest, may always kept this plant the future.

Meanwhile, the most effective measures that I feel obliged to state for conservation regular and
beneficiation of this important branch of the treasury entries are as follows.

1 st Can the government of the republic in Europe to recruit an employee of Forests, intelligent
and versed in the use and application of improvements on the subject,
to entrust the inspection forests overall scale, which moved from
one point to another monitor and direct subordinate employees to continually
placed in each province.

2 ª The junior employee will be responsible for ordering and directing
the EXTRACTION of hulls in each of the parishes of the province.

For the harvest is done with perfection due, it is necessary to start from then on open road leading
to all the valleys where this plant is grown, then dividing the territory into ten sections,
for example, To only benefits a year, thus giving time to the others to return to populated for
when their turn.

3rd Harvest should take place only in the months of June, July and August, when stems are in
a more perfect state of maturity, and when the plant contains Most sap, without the fear that comes
to cutting dry accordingly.

4 th is a need to start in each parish to the operation of the court, drawing primarily a path
of extraction, and building one or many barracks in the center of the section that benefits,
for laborers can be dispersed in these sotechados depositing the daily intake of their tasks,
and make it dry there husks without accidents complete breakdowns or failure.

5 th order not to destroy the bushes to make the cuts will be necessary to choose when most seasoning,
and cut a little above the roots, drawing on billhooks; after taking the precaution, if the strain
does not cast forth suckers, leaving some plants in reserve Here and there, which again planted
and naturally their surroundings, in the course ten years between
each cut of the section.

If the Bolivian government enact measures similar to those taken in France to the regular court
State forest, it is clear that never would see the need to suspend scale crops, for that today
employs to prevent the total destruction of this specific. Every year substantial proceeds
would be collected and better: these products always retain the same
value, in view of lowering of stroke, as when the court left to the
discretion and discretion of the natives is practiced with such disorder,
would seem better, with such abandon, that stockpiles Overcharging
factories and then European markets, causing them to stop hand crops
in general, for some years.

Finally, for trade in the expanse take a convenient scale, so that
can, to be more durable, produce the incalculable advantages of being
capable under good administration, it would be necessary that the
Government institute a severe and well-regulated regime about crops
and trying to establish the Bank as soon as rescue projected which
depends on the regularization of this trade on the stranger.

The second branch of the trade in the province, which also can receive a huge expanse, is undoubtedly
cocoa.