 He had never known or owned
more proprietary know that Don Pedro Miranda. The institutions of law force, the old law, universities,
army, navy, constitution politics and even religion, had no reason to be in their eyes, but
as elements that a direct or indirect entrenched those rights. The amazing machine of the
Universe was formed to support his undisputed title to the freehold of Praducos, village situated
half a mile from the village, and had direct on the Meanas, with a canon hundred and fifteen ducats
yearly. This awareness of their right engendered very clear, however, excess of clarity, some conflicts.
A settler came and said: - Lord, Joaquín el martinetero, has cut the cane yesterday walnut hanging
over their garden .-- But walnut was mine! - Don Pedro exclaimed suddenly flushed with anger
and surprise .-- Yes, sir ... but hanging over their garden as ...--¿ How this scoundrel dared
to touch on one thing that is mine, mine? - immediately filed an injunction, and naturally,
he lost. Of these injunctions had lost a few dozen in your life, without ever deterrant.

Don Roque de la Riva, constitutional mayor Sarrió, who have been honored
to compare when I first saw him in the theater, a courtier of Louis
XV, or a coachman big house, not remarkable for the purity of diction,
before it was so run down and confused, that the caller he could scarcely
understand.

We do not know if it was in the mouth or throat or in the region of the nasal passages, where Mr.
de la Riva was kindly crushing and tormenting the words, the truth is coming out almost always
transformed into sounds dark, hollow, chaotic, completely unintelligible. Particularly after
eating it was impossible to talk to him. And this, for no other reason, they said, but because
they don Roque used to instruct pilots a wine friends Rivero, so exquisite, that nobody would
to drink, even at the risk of staying silent. The paramount chief of the village civil leaving all
evenings home alone, in appearance, actually pleasantly accompanied. Its huge face shaved wanted
to take the blood through the pores, preferably focusing on the huge back Bourbon your nose.
The eyes, with bouquets of blood also, half veiled by not being able to suffer the great heaviness
of the eyelids slowly were spaced across the width of the street expressing an enviable level
of fitness. Serious step, slow, hesitant, accused just as a perfect harmony between their
mental and physical faculties. He lacked Don Roque to achieve happiness rather than tripping over a
sheriff, or a street sweeper, or serene, or chipping, with any employee, in short, of the municipality.
From afar I descry, and suddenly lifted her eyelids, and nostrils of the smell was opened dam.
If this, sniffing the tiger, he spent the other side, or trying to hide Roque called him a voice
of thunder.

- John, Juaan, Juaaaan!

The victim's head went down.

- Have you taken the job to Don Lorenzo?

- Yes, sir.

- Have you
told the clerk to leave the file section of the cemetery?

- Yes,
sir.

- Have you taken the cards to the headman of San Martín?

-
Yes, sir.

- Have you been to tell Manuel to remove the debris that
is in front of your house?

In short, I was wondering, until the poor sheriff answered negatively.

Then, the voice of choristers of the mayor was heard across the street,
and even in the confines of the town.

His eyes were injected, and his face came to be apoplectic purple.

Impossible understand what he said, if they were not splashing the
garlic with the speech, and even these the cupped so that only the
jack was seen clearly.

The rebuke never lasted less than fifteen or twenty minutes, the
time required to leave the vast amount of garlic that had been accumulated
in the body from the night before.

Just as there are people morning put their fingers in the mouth to cause bile Roque inevitably
needed this relief to be comfortable. He had not ever heard another interjection, but instead of
this possessed such abundance that was not enough to put one on each floor, sometimes put two or three.

Shopkeepers
came out to the door to listen, but smiling, not surprisingly, as usual of old to this show.

-
Don Roque today pulled Swifts firm - told each other aloud.

- Look if you do John.

Indeed, the sheriff at every turn in the round that gave the mayor, had the thumb the mouth and
made the sign of steep.

Don Roque would rather find a sweeper or chipping in the exercise
of their functions.

Cautiously approached him from behind, and he knelt his dedazo in
the neck.

--¡... Garlic! rascal so, what is so sweeping that?

Do you think ... garlic! I'll pay for let me half the crap between the stones? ... Garlic! Is
this gratitude? ... Garlic! Is it this shame?

... Garlic!

Sometimes himself in the speech enthusiastically grasped the broom and began to give the sweeper
a lesson in his craft. Shopkeepers, the few pedestrians crossing the street and some lady who
was leaning on the balcony with the noise, burst out laughing merrily.

The sweeper itself, despite their plight, could not repress a smile watching this madman with giving
the coat rolled up angry and confused wipe the floor.

- This sweeping! ... ... Garlic! (Broom terrible blow.) This sweeps! ... ... Garlic! (Another
hit.) This sweeps! ... ... Garlic! (Another hit.) This sweeps! ...
... Garlic!

Until exhausted, sweaty and ready to fall to earth with a stroke, gave him a broom and picked up
the baton with tassels.

Thus vented his noble bosom of the copy of garlic that was upon him,
undertook again their way and arrived at a most happy disposition
Saloncillo body and spirit.

Gabino Maza was a man of about forty-five-year-old naval officer, retired early because his maverick
nature could not bear to military discipline. Face olive-brown, small eyes and dark circles
live with constant hawking his temper too bilious. High, dry, muscular, his beard and hair that
was black in color in blue, the always broken and violent gestures, voice indefinable, sometimes
serious, other, when angry, which was almost always began to talk, shrill and sharp as a falsetto so
shrill that broke the ears. Enjoyed a small income and a very small removal, with which he
could live and feed his family with respect Sarrió a wealthy gentleman. In the capital of the
province and it would be impossible. Eternal struggles, putting in each dispute, it was trivial, a
lot of passion and violence really amazing, always willing, be contrary to everything they
said although it was clearer the noonday gloom of a fierce and unfriendly to judge men, for
that point was not made the case that never believed pure motives of human action by noble and
honored to appear, spiteful and vindictive to madness. This man, however, did not attract the hatred
of the neighborhood against another, as might be supposed. In villages and towns, by the intimate,
long and steady people, penetrates into the soul of each than in large populations. Superficial
treatment does, in them, many men sympathetic cold, selfish and even evil. Courteous manners, gentle
words, insinuating smile, immediately provide opinion 'nice and decent person. " In the province worthless
this. On the contrary, is wary of excessive friendliness, and above all, smile sweetish, is
looking to every man the folds and recesses of the soul with the same care and attention to
a taxidermist is feeling and putting the scalpel view all fibers of the body machine. Which
are generally hated by some men that stranger seduce him, while others, hard, violent, aggressive,
often fall into grace. The dissimulation, which is the talent of rude and vulgar natures, not
ever forgive province, perhaps to be the predominant service in all social relations. The geniuses
alive, exalted temperament, not scary like the "bulls clear." There is almost always in them a spirit
of justice, which, though exaggerated and corrupted by passion, not just them unfriendly. Moreover,
as the exaltation of violence and constant cause of suffering, physical and moral discomfort,
rightly judged that men of such temperament are in themselves the penalty of their excesses.

Gabino
Maza was not hated and loved too. Those with grievances him, he murmured and prevented their
meeting calling him "jealous" and "bad language." Those who do not laugh at his exaggerations
and he led themselves with pleasure, without professing great affection
either.

Another character was gathered there Feliciano Gómez.

Grocery merchant genres retail owner at the same time three or four and some quechemarines that pataches
coasting trade made by the Cantabrian coast, venturing once in a while the more transport to
get to Seville. Of medium height, bare head of hair in pyramid-shaped pins that reached her
nose, almost always hoarse voice. It was fun man, kind, optimistic. He was unmarried and living
with three sisters over age, who had made real ladies workforce and economy. The payment as they
gave public voice, was to have him dominated and subject as a child, bitterly rebuke lighter
faults, and mortify and boring by all means imaginable. However, he never was heard a complaint
from them.

The Belgian engineer, M. Delaunay, had come to Sarrió years ago, in
order to benefit mining the preserve of a powerful English company.

The operation did not work. The company withdrew his commission and salary. But Delaunay, who had
some money and entrepreneurial genius, went on for six or eight industrial companies. First set
up a paper factory then another tip from Paris, and later tried to form an oyster farm, then factory
cheese and ice. Finally wanted to take a large marsh that was near Sarrió. All these companies had
failed, without anyone knowing why. Delaunay was smart, illustrated, time-consuming. Each industry
knew it was going to exercise as the most competent teacher; charge devices to England, riding
and running was happily getting very acceptable products. The attributed its fall to the lack of
roads. The last of big corporations, aborted before birth, it more than any other discredited. In
a of his trips around the village, had been near a small river certain uncultivated land with
little effort could be reduced to cultivation. Took hold in mind; up the plane. A few months later,
when he was forced to close the ice maker and fire workers, the Marsh remembered and spoke of
them to Don Rosendo Belinchón Don Feliciano Gómez and two more Indians to assist him in his
great undertaking. Replicated them that was necessary to see them, and concertóse the tour. One
morning mounted in two horses secretly initiated the march to the estuary of Orlean, distant
four leagues Sarrió. When you get near the horses she left and went on foot of a hill, from
which oteaban marshes. What would be the shame and confusion of seeing the land Delaunay trying
to steal the sea, covered with corn, green and flowering were a blessing God! In fact, more than
six years were under cultivation. His mistake was born seeing them in December when they were
resting. They turned to the town, and incident occurred in her laughter that must be assumed.

Laid
out ruined. Was obliged to live miserably. But far from going out in his mind the fury of
the business burned in poverty with more momentum. So not leave a single Sarrió capitalist
who does so in order to embark on one. Sometimes it was a tram to the capital, others a port
of refuge or a wooden piers, other great restaurant. Some Indians, just by the way, he seduced,
paid some thousands of dollars his innocence.

The fact is that Delaunay was a man of talent, scholar, learning very well with all the advances
of science and industry. Despise impossible without making an injustice.

The Assistant Port Marina, Alvaro Pena, young man of thirty, dark, big eyes black mustache Victor
Manuel, was characterized by a deep hatred, implacable, the state church and all who represent
him, even if his own brother. Without being amateur in any way to science or literature, had a
fairly large library, composed entirely of books against religion and its ministers. He was signed
to three or four newspapers known for their anti-clerical views,
and said he had been had been seized a few years to accumulate data
for a book meant to be published under the title of religion within
the reach of all fortunes, which many neighbors knew and some fragments.

He was cheerful, courageous, fond of stories and jokes, which always played paramount role a priest
or nun. Mispronounces Rs.

Don Jaime Marin, owner of four bushels of bread, the contribution amounted about six thousand pesetas,
would be a large skull, a profligate, a monster of corruption if not have to wife to Dona Brigida.
This distinguished lady was achieved with a healthy energy that your husband does not ruin
the family and cast them all for doors. Before disrupt their finances secured the court deprived
him of property management and was assigned to it. It is not easy how firmly grasped Dona Brigida
the reins of the house. No Roman patrician was never a more perfect idea of ??sui juris, of
the sacred rights "the city" had placed in his hands.

Since it came to pass, Don Jaime, despite his fifty-odd years, became in his hands a real thing
as preventing Instituta. In his juris alieni condition was suffering the direct action and continuing
her lord and master, and secured in an all-embracing to their will. Farewell dinner sumptuous
seafood and wine from Rueda in the cafe of the Marina! Goodbye hare hunting Marcelino Fermo
the butcher and the carver! Triplet seductive nights Goodbye! Afternoon peace and happiness in the
winery Sebastian de la Puente, goodbye! The lady inflexible deposited in their hands every Sunday
three pesetas, no more no less. It was all available to flow during the week for their services,
except smoking, which it subsidized, buying cigarettes itself. When I needed a hat, she bought
it, when a suit or a pair of boots be warned the tailor or shoemaker to come to take action. He
even kept him from going the barbershop, lest they run the two real. The barber came to shave
the Saturdays. By the way, with little or no consideration, the bearded rapador got some sometimes
at nine o'clock, when Don James was sleeping.

- What do I do? - Asked Dona Brigida.

- Shave you - answered the lady very severe.

The barber, following the slogan, was approaching, he smeared his face with soap and robbed him
the beard nicely without Don Jaime awoke more than half. He missed another dream and when you
wake up really used to say to the servant who served the chocolate:

- Today is Saturday, they call, the barber.

- Tonto, borricote, unable
sacraments! - Answered her sweet consort from the cabinet .-- No see
you shave yet?

- It's true! - Said the good man feeling his face.

At first I used to ask friends or acquaintances of coffee some money to play ombre, and drinking
on credit in coffee but soon or friends want to give anything, nor
establishment owner trusted him and the value of two rooms.

Stopped short of Dona Brigida to throw him down the stairs one day
that has brought him a hundred and twenty reais.

Don Jaime was thus reduced to spend hours sitting watching play and
giving players do not appreciated advice.

Used to pay the greedy cup of rum. Once in a time playing checkers with Mr. Lorenzo, as he flatly
refused to follow the game without interest, was that Marin arbitrate should not be any precious
metal. Discoursed expose one of the two cigars that his wife was in the morning. When he lost, that
afternoon was not smoking. Sometimes looking for a rematch, losing
two and three would one by one, giving his opponent in the following
days.

Then he spent, as their Friends would say, "the grammar", that is, to ask here and there a cigarette
to calm the unbearable itching to suck. Poor Marin!

Dona Brigida what could not ever do was lie on a regular time. Years of staying up all night
until four or five in the morning, had formed a habit impossible overcome. As holding him was
not going home anyway to bed until daybreak, and spent the evening poking around the rooms,
and as the vice late nights alone the cheapest is known, the witty lady let him retire at
the time wanted. Coffee remained in the Navy with the last customers. After they retired, still remained
while the boys placed the dishes in place and the owner pointed out
the latest games.

When he threw the establishment materially was to company to the serene de la Rúa Nueva, very
friend. Chatting with the hours he killed still lacking for the dawn.

Don Lorenzo, Don Agapito, Don Pancho, Don Aquilino, Mr. Germain and Don Justo were Indians, that
is, people whose parents had sent to America for children to earn a living and had back between
fifty and sixty years with a capital ranging from 30-100000 hard. There were over fifty of them
in Sarrio. The hard work and subjection in which they had lived for many years, I did have an idea
of ??happiness is very different from ours. To us the joy is to enjoy a new pleasure every
day, shaking, traveling, enjoying the body and spirit of the amazing variety of things that nature
offers us.

For them was estimated solely on not working, spending day after day of hard redeemed law
imposed by God to Adam after sin. And the truth is that fattened fiercely this singular enjoyment.
Most of them had their capital in the Funds, whose income when it comes to not cause discomfort.
Rising up early in the habit of early rising, and walked all morning through the streets or at
the dock in gangs of six or eight player entry and exit, loading and unloading of ships. After
dinner they went to the mezzanine Navy coffee or Friendship, and spent three or four hours playing
or watching play billiards.

"Come on, ball of bone, go, go to hut! - Leave, leave, Don Pancho, which is wound .-- Sal girl,
leave the manigüita .-- Ah, ah, how nice ute hits, Don Lorenso! - Do not get mad, don Pancho!
"

The game was always peppered with such phrases that smelled like banana and coconut. When the days
were long, there veíaseles afternoon by walking near the village also gang or sitting on the grass
at the edge of a fountain.

It was time for tropical memories.

"Remember ute, Don Agapito remembers mulatta aqueya ute dog that came
to give plasma to the store? - And how well he sang the guarachas,
the sinvergüensa! - a design that ute vese the rubbed, Don Agapito,
the hard rubbed .-- And why not, Don Pancho, if what I would improve
the dance of people with black slipped my Justo compare? - Wow, man,
do not say So I Enoha!

The dance that was going to ute. Vese Poquita trabao I saw him with eya dancing down the little
girl, little girl down! "

There was no count on them to subsidize the orchestra, or theater, or other public recreation. Young
indigenous people if they wanted to have fun need to appeal to the pocket of his parents. And
knew it was useless to seek the help of American gold. This angered them. On the back, and even
from the front, called them rusty, villagers, donkeys laden with money. But the Indians have
tough skin and despised such outbursts. The hatred they had declared (Who was not?) Was Gabino
Maza .--«¿ What are they pulled all those fifty vague on the street,
opening his mouth and stretching like dogs?

If earmarked even your money to some useful industry to the people! "

When Don Melchor de las Cuevas and his nephew entered the Saloncillo, who alone remained standing
in the middle of the circle was the same Gabino gesturing Maza. I could not stay two minutes
sitting. The continued glorification of his body, the vehemence with which he tried to persuade
his audience, forcing him to take up the seat immediately, jumping into the middle of the room
and screaming and slapping until he concluded his breath and strength. There was talk of the
company the theater had announced his departure to have experienced
losses in the first installment thirty functions.

Maza was to convince them that there had been no such losses, it was all a hoax.

- Not true, not true! Anyone who says they have lost a penny lying! ... (Down voice and shaking hands
with Gonzalo .)--¿ How are you, Gonzalo? I know you've arrived yesterday. Come Good: I'm glad
... I repeat that lie! Do not dare to say it to me?

- Six thousand pieces have been lost in the thirty functions, according to data presented me Baritone
- Don Mateo said.

Maza grinds his teeth. The outrage is not allowed to speak. Finally breaks.

- And you ignore that drunk, Mr. Mateo? ... Go, go (with affected contempt), to force to deal
with comedians you've forgotten the office, as the blacksmith of
yore.

- Hey you, smarty, I have not said what he believed.
