 Then paused, as if those words cost him great effort.

Followed the path in silence, parting near the hut.

- Bona nit and
greasy! - Said the girl.

- Bona nit! - And disappeared Tonet marching
toward the village.

For it was a minor incident, a pleasant meeting, he had removed fear no more. And yet, Rosetta
had dinner that night and went to bed thinking of the grandson Tomba
uncle.

I remembered the times she had met in the morning on the way, and even seemed Tonet tried to always
march in step with her, but something separate to avoid drawing the
attention of the stinging spinners .... On occasion, the head sharply
back, believed to have been surprised with his eyes fixed on her ...

And
the girl, as if spinning a cocoon, grab these loose ends of his memory
and pulled and pulled, remembering all of his life that was related
to Tonet, the first Once they saw it, and compassionate sympathy for
the fun of the spinners, he bore downcast and shy, as if these harpies
in band will inspire fear, then frequent encounters on the road and
the stares of the boy, who seemed to want to tell her something.

To go to Valencia in the morning, saw him no, but at night, to start back to his cabin, he
felt no fear, in spite of the twilight was dark and rainy. Sensed the appearance of reassuring
companion, and actually met him at almost the same point the previous day.

It was as expressive as ever, "Bona nit!" And walked beside her.

Rosetta was more talkative.

Where did it come? What a coincidence, found two days!

And he, trembling, as if the words cost him great effort, he answered as usual: "D'there ...
d'there ....»

The girl, who was actually as shy as he felt no desire to laugh but his embarrassment. She spoke
of her fear, the shocks during the winter went on the road; and Tonet, flattered by the service
they provide to the young man finally opened his mouth to tell it often accompany her. He
always had his love affairs that required him to march through the meadow.

They said goodbye to the brevity of the previous day, but that night the girl stirred in bed,
restless, nervous, dreaming thousand foolish, seeing themselves in a way black, very black, accompanied
by a huge dog licked her hand and had the same face Tonet. After out a wolf to bite, with a nose
vaguely reminiscent of the hated Pimento, and fought the two animals with his teeth, and left
his father with a club, and she cried as if the back Soltan in the beatings he received his
poor dog, and so was yacketayakking your imagination, but always seeing the scenes of his dream
run over the grandson of Tomba, with blue eyes and her face covered with a girl, blond hair,
which was first sign of manhood.

It is broken up, as if to come out of a delirium. That day was Sunday and not go to factory.
The sun came through the little window of her bedroom and all the people of the cabin was and
out of bed. Rosetta began arranging to go to mass with her mother.

The devilish dream was still upset.

He felt another, with different thoughts, last night as if it were a wall that divided his
life into two parts.

Happy as a bird sang, while he was removing clothes from the ark and placed it on his bed still warm
with the traces of his body.

Much liked Sundays, with their freedom to get up later, their hours of idleness and his little
trip to Alboraya to hear Mass, but that Sunday was better than the others, shone more sun,
singing birds harder, went through the little window air that smelled
to glory: how to say!

... in short, that the morning was for her something new and extraordinary.

It had been taunted until then a female care for herself. Ten and six years and who thought it was
time to get ready. How stupid was to laugh his mother was always calling her awkward! ...

And like a new dress that I saw for the first time, Then he put over
his head with great care, if it were subtle lace, the skirt of calico
every Sunday.

Then squeezed much the corset, and if you do not oppress one frame still quite high shovels,
a true corset styling, which cruelly crushed chest rising, as in the Valencian garden is immodesty
than singles do not hide the seductive trappings of nature so that
no sinfully can mean in the future virgin motherhood.

For the first time in his life was the spinner over a quarter of an hour before the middle
span mercury glass and painted pine frame that gave him his father had a mirror in which to
contemplate the face sections.

She was not much he recognized, but were uglier to dozens in the garden. And without knowing
why, he delighted watching his eyes light green, mottled cheeks of those freckles that the sun raises
the skin toasted white blond hair, with flaccid fineness of silk, the little nose of sheltering
a mouth quivering wings shaded the hair of a seasoned fruit, half
opened and the teeth showed a strong and equal, whiteness of milk,
which seemed to illuminate his face shine: a poor teeth.

His mother had to wait. In vain the poor woman made haste, writhing impatiently the cabin, as spurred
by the bell sounded in the distance.

Iban to lose mass. While So calmly combing Rosetta, then undo your work soon satisfied it. Then
she arranged the blanket with angry jerks, we never find on your taste.

In Alboraya Square, entering and leaving the church, Rosetta, raising just your eyes scanned the
door of the butcher, where people crowded around the table sales.

There he was, helping his master, giving pieces of sheep skinned and
frightening clouds of flies that covered the meat.

I flushed the borregote watching!

... As she passed a second time, was as delighted with a leg of lamb in the right hand without
giving it to her paunchy employer, who was waiting in vain, and which,
dropping a wad round, was threatened with the knife.

The afternoon was unhappy. Sitting at the gate of his barracks, surprise several times haunting
thought the paths somewhat distant, or hiding in the Canaro to her. The spinner wanted which soon came
on Monday to go to the factory and move to the horrible road back together by Tonet.

He left the boy submitted at nightfall the following day.

Even closer to the city than in the other day, was met by Rosetta.

- Bona nit!

But after the usual salutation not stopped. He seemed timid progress much during the rest day.

And
awkwardly, grimacing accompany their expressions and scratches on the legs of trousers explained,
but passed between words sometimes two minutes. He was glad see her good ... (Smile Rosetta and a
"greasy" murmured softly.) "Had fun much on Sunday? ... (Pause) He
had been pretty bad. Bored.

No doubt the usual ... well ... seemed that something was missing .... Sure! law had taken the
road ... no, the road no, what he liked was to accompany ...

And here he stopped short. So it seemed to be biting nervously Rosetta language to punish for
his audacity, and pinched in the armpits for having gone so far.

They walked in silence for a long time. The girl did not answer; continued their march with the
swagger unscathed from the spinners, basket in left hip and right arm slicing the air with a
swinging pendulum.

He thought of his dream.

He figured to be in delirium, seeing extravagances, and several times turned his head to perceive
in the dark thinking dog that licked his hands and had Tonet's face, remember that even made
him laugh.

But no, what I had to hand was a good able to defend fellow, rather shy and cramped, yes,
head down, as if the words I still had to say it had slipped to the chest and there were poking.

Rosetta
still confused you more. "Let us see, why was that? Why went out to accompany in their way?
What would people say?

If her father found out, what disgust !...»

- Per what? ... "Per what? - Asked the girl.

And the younger, more and more sad, more cramped, as a convicted criminal who hears the accusation,
nothing answered. Marching in step with the girl, but separated from
it, stumbled on the wayside.

Rosetta even thought he was going to mourn.

But near the hut and when they went to separate, Tonet had a timid
start.

Spoke with the same violence had stopped, and as if they had spent many minutes answer to the
question of the girl

- Per what? ... Perqu'et vullc [12].

[12] - Why? ... Because I love you.

He said it closer to her to throw her breath in his face, gleaming eyes as if you leave them the
whole truth, and after that, sorry again, fearful, appalled by his words, began to run as
a child.

Tonet's wanted! ... For two days that she expected these words, and yet I caused the effect
of an unexpected revelation. She also loved him and all night, even in dreams, was heard, whispered
by a thousand voices with their ears, the same phrase: "Perqu'et
vullc."

Tonet not wait to the next night. At dawn he saw Rosetta on the road, almost hidden behind the
trunk of a mulberry tree, watching with anxiety as a child who is afraid of reprimand and repentant,
ready to flee at the first sign of displeasure.

But the spinner smiled, blushing, and there was no more.

Everything was spoken, not returned to say that they wanted, but it
was something agreed in the engagement, Tonet and did not miss a single
time to accompany her on her way.

The roaring of courage bellied butcher with the sudden change of his
servant, once so diligently and now always inventing excuses to spend
hours and hours in the garden, especially at dusk.

But the selfishness of his happiness, Tonet was concerned both tacos and threats of his master,
as the spinner of his feared father, to whom he was usually even more afraid that I respect.

Rosetta always had a nest in her bedroom, he said he had met on the road. Her boyfriend could
not be with empty hands, and explored all the Canar and orchard trees
gift to the spinner wheels of straw and twigs, in whose bottom a few
urchins, with the pink skin covered with fine hair and bare butt,
chirped desperately opening up a huge bill never satiated with crumbs.

Rosetta kept the gift in his room, as if the same person as her boyfriend, and cried when their
brothers, the little people who had the cabin per nest in force to
admire the birds, eventually wring his neck.

Tonet sometimes appeared with a lump in the belly: the strip full
of lupins and peanuts Copa purchased house, and slowly going the way
they ate and ate, looking at one in each other's eyes, smiling like
fools without knowing why, sometimes sitting on a bank not realizing
it.

She was the most sensible, and scolded him. Always spending money! They were two little real
or least in a week had left the tavern with so many gifts. And he
showed generous.

Who wanted the rooms but for her? When they married - ever have to be - and would keep the
money. The thing would be there at ten or twelve years, there was no hurry, all engagements
of the garden and lasted one season.

The marriage was to return to Rosetta to reality. On the day his father knew everything ....
Blessed Virgin! was going to break one's back to sticks. And speaking of the future beating calmly
smiling like a strong girl accustomed to the paternal authority,
rigid, imposing and honradota, manifested to blows and sticks.

Their relations were innocent. Never appeared among them the sharp desire, the audacity of
meat.

Marched through the almost deserted road in the twilight of dusk, and the same loneliness looked
away from his thinking unclean all purposes.

Once touched unintentionally Tonet Rosetta waist, as if he ruborizóse
the girl.

They were both very far from believing in their daily encounters could
come up with something would not speak and look. It was the first
love, the expansion of youth just wake up, who is content to see,
to talk and laugh, without a shadow of desire.

The spinner, who in
his dreadful night had so desired the arrival of spring, was developed
with concern the long, luminous twilight.

Now he met with her boyfriend
in broad daylight, and never missing in the way the factory partners
or women of the neighborhood, that seeing them together smiling mischievously
guessed everything.

The factory started teasing by their enemies,
who asked him ironically when married, and called her the nickname
"Pastor", by having an affair with the nephew of old Tomba.

Trembling
with concern the poor Rosetta. What was going to make a beat! Any
day was the news to his father. And then when Batiste was the day
of his sentence in the Court Waters, saw her on the road accompanied
by Tonet.

But nothing happened. The happy event of irrigation saved
the girl. Her father, contented have delivered their crop, limitóse
to look several times with a frown. Then the voice said slowly, a
high rate and accent imperative that in future take care to return
one of the factory, otherwise it would know who he was.

And one came
back for a week. Tonet you had some respect to Mr. Batiste, and content
to ambush near the road, to see happen to the spinner or follow after
from afar.

As the days were longer, there were many people on the
road.

But this separation could not last for the couple impatient,
and a Sunday Later, Rosetta, idle, tired of walking outside the door
of his cabin and thinking she saw Tonet on all paths passing through
the remote, grabbed a jug painted in green, and told his mother he
was going to bring water from the fountain of the Queen.

The mother
let her go. Be distracted, poor girl! had no friends, and to the youth
there to give his own.

The source of the Queen was the pride of all
that part of the garden, ordered water wells and liquid and muddy
crimson running down the drains.

Was compared to an abandoned farmhouse,
and was "what is old and of great merit" in the words of the wisest
of the garden: the work of the Moors, as Pimento monuments of the
time the apostles were baptized crooks in the world, as stated in
majesty oracle Uncle Tomba.

In the evening walked along the road,
fringed with poplar silver foliage restless groups girls still wearing
her pitcher and right on the head, remembering with its rhythmic step
and svelte figure to the Greek canephori