 As
in all ancient cities, the streets are generally narrow and winding, and unsightly buildings.
But if one considers the whole city with its features monumental and has plenty of picturesque natural.
Its half-ruined walls, flanked by some towers, its ancient churches and remarkable for its Roman
architecture and gothic interior gardens and orchards, in contrast to the rough terrain and
factories, tanneries and many industrial establishments, give a very curious. Poitiers contains
important educational institutions, and their productions, similar in general to those of Angouleme,
are of considerable value.

The railway, crossing rivers on Vienne, Creuse, Indre and Cher, enters the great valley of
the Loire Valley (one of the most beautiful regions of France) plying the department Indre-and-Loire
(320,000 inhabitants), whose major cities are in via Tours and Amboise. The first, which is the
capital, has about 30,000 souls, located in a vast plain in the middle of the rivers Loire and
Cher and to the left bank of the former. It is a very ancient and very remarkable in the political history
of France. Apart from the value they place his great and varied activity manufacturing and agriculture
in the neighboring regions is an important center of communications river and land, flowing where
the roads of Paris, Bordeaux, Nantes and high Britain. The beautiful gothic cathedral and other
public buildings make it interesting in the eyes of the artist the simple yet curious traveler. It
has many notable institutions, including an excellent library (40,000 volumes) and museums of
painting and sculpture, natural history, antiques and mineralogy, with a beautiful botanical
garden. Among cities of the third order (and still almost second) Tours is, without doubt, one
of the most interesting in every way. Is this city ??a special feature worthy of mention. Among
its various printing has one of proportions gigantic, the largest and most powerful in France, making
immense scale publications and in all languages. From there come every year from 7 to 8.000
works, and arises mainly prodigious mass of elementary books for public education. Thousands of
workers have permanent occupation in that vast establishment, whose powerful steam presses do not
stop providing food to civilization.

Amboise is only around 5.000 inhabitants and is remarkable only for its significant manufacturing
metal, whose products are generally estimated. This ancient city also delay on the margin
of the Loire. His strong castle served as temporary residence to the kings of France during
the XV and XVI.

The Loire Valley, as I said, is one of the most beautiful regions of France, but unfortunately have
suffered major disasters by the terrible floods of this river, whose waters overflow easily
owing to the shallowness of the channel and the complete natural grading the plains. The picturesque
may consist of natural forms and colors of objects and in artificial forms. It is to this second
kind of graceful beauty that belongs the exquisite scenery of the banks of the Loire, which would
be monotonous and tedious, because of their lack strong inflection, if it had the charm of the hand
of man has attempted. Plain is a vast open horizon, populated whole grain, vineyards, plantations
Hemp and beautiful carefully preserved forests. At the bottom of this magnificent panorama
vegetable slips the Loire, slow and quiet, with its endless shaded margins rows of poplars and other
large trees, and forming long beaches where the hot reverberates summer sun.

Here and there stands a mountain some distance, or a pretty flat hill inclined approaching
the river, where shine among gardens and parks on small towns fifth elegant, graceful houses gives
work (fermes), or the splendid castles history more or less aristocratic and heroic, raised
as watchmen on the heights of valley. All that region has both the smiling freshness and charm
of a vegetation very careful, the hallmark of productive activity, and a look of quiet majesty reminiscent
thousand episodes of French history.

Following the right bank of the Loire, in the midst of the richest and cheerful landscapes,
train enters the department of Loir-and-Cher (260,000 inhabitants), whose capital to Blois. The
Loire deserves particular attention, being the most significant river of France, although its
navigation is difficult in the upper and central in the summer. Born in remote mountains of the
Ardeche (which separate the valley of the Rhone), and has a total course to St. Nazaire, on
the coast of Ocean, 1.226 kilometers. Its basin covers an area of 131.000 square kilometers
(about a quarter of the territory of France) receiving many tributaries, of which 32 have over
50 courses and 13 miles are navigable. He fed waters Loire several very important channels for internal
navigation.

Since its margin, and at a distance of several kilometers, are achieved to see the famous castle
and towers of Blois, with a wonderful effect on the bottom of the vast panorama. Hallas also on
the plain, to the right bank of the Loire, and is a city of considerable antiquity he did great
role in history courtesan do France. It was a school that left Blois to successive figures in the
court of Louis XIV (the great corruptor crowned) Louise de La-Vallière and Atenais de Montespan,
there lived Louis XII, Francis I, Charles IX and Henry III, there was assassinated in 1588, the
famous Duke of Guise, and resided there in 1814 the imperial regency that was so ephemeral. Blois
has only about 14.000 inhabitants, but is a significant manufacturing center, and agricultural production
is considerable, especially in ordinary and famous fine wines vinegars.

It

was six o'clock in the afternoon when the train station playing in the Orleans (the Aurelia of the Romans)
beautiful old city of 42.000 inhabitants, situated in the center of a vast plain on the right
bank of the Loire. It is the capital of the Loiret department, which occupies almost the center
of the French territory and numbers 330.000 inhabitants. Its cathedral is one of the France's
most magnificent monuments in the Gothic genre, and contains many other buildings remarkable.
Orleans is one of the first capital of the second order in France, for the importance of his administration,
his vast industry and agriculture and other social conditions, but is it, after Paris, the most
historic of French cities. Their land was, according to the general opinion of antiquarians,
the seat of Genabum taken and destroyed by Caesar. Reedificóla Emperor Aurelian, who gave his
name, and was gathered by the kingdom Childeric of the Franks. Capital at the time of the duchy
of Burgundy, Hugh Capet has incorporated his crown, and later came to be the heritage of the
house of Valois and base of the industry actual Orleans whose secular struggles with the branch staff
have been so interesting in the history of France and still survive. It was there where the
famous heroine Joan of Arc defeated the English invaders earning the nickname of Maid of Orleans,
and that cost him a celebrity martyrdom at the stake in Rouen. Religious fanaticism has paid almost
always such as large acts of devotion and heroism sublime.

- The night had come when the train played in the small town of Etampes (of 8,000 souls) that belongs
to the department of Seine-and-Oise, strong 490.000 inhabitants, and whose capital is the famous
and historic Versailles. The train was running in the darkness of the countryside with the
speed of the hurricane, and soon realized, by the immense illumination that shone the valley
of the Seine, which was at the gates of Paris and had completed my journey.

       

* * * * *

       

CHAPTER VI.

* * * * *

CONCLUSION.

If the chapters in this series of souvenirs have been drawn with skill descriptive or purely
literary and artistic, yet would be very incomplete. Could scarcely offer a picturesque image
of the main features of Spanish appearance, and excite more or less the curiosity of readers enough
volunteers to encourage Colombians to his attention these pages. Also, always written in haste,
sometimes on tour and in any case within the final limit of a regular correspondence (in 1859-60)
these pages, although now collected in one volume, they must suffer the defects of its primitive
form.

In order to make them more useful, the reader will allow me to summarize my most notable travel impressions.

Nothing
can be as interesting for the people of the New World as the social study of Spain. The societies
of both regions are very consistent in its essential terms - where education above all - and should
compare them to see that wherever the same causes, ie, the same institutions, produce similar
results, given consideration to geographical differences. Rapid three-month trip I could do
in Spain is undoubtedly no, quite inadequate to make assessments pretty solid, more especially
as Spain is one of the people who have less ethnographic and social unit among the most notable
Europe. I feel strongly also did not have time to visit some provinces important (those of
Extremadura, Galicia, Asturias, Aragon and Navarra) that deserve special attention for more than one
reason. However, I do not adventurous some general observations that I can inferred from the rapid
observation of the rest of Spain, namely their mass, or the main its four major social groups.
Summarize, then:

What is the opinion can be expressed regarding the character, customs, institutions, the economic
and literary situation and the future of Spain? "The Spanish people and the nation Spanish
are similar and harmonious? Does the constitutional system has made real progress to Spain
as a society and state? What influence there have been revolutions this century? What hope can be
legitimately found in the current situation?

I will try answer to these questions as possible conoision.

Spain can be considered under three different faces, as to their division (out of legal or political)
in which the proportions vary widely depending on the combination
adopted.

These phases are: first, natural or topographical, and second, the historic, third, ethnographic
and social.

If you go to the first, check to see that the mountain system of the peninsula has been divided
the territory into seven major regions, well demarcated and very unequal proportions. These are,
beginning with the eastern end of the Pyrenees

1 The vast basin of the Ebro, between the Pyrenees, the parallel branching (which separates the
valley of Castile) and the Mediterranean, comprising the Basque provinces of Alava, those of
Logroño and Navarra, the whole house and all the Catalonia Aragon, with a total population (In
figures round) 2,962,000 souls.

2 The sea valley region of the ancient kingdoms of Valencia and Murcia, the province Almeria and
the alti-plains Basin - between the Mediterranean region, low Ebro
valley and mountain ranges that, rolling beads, still somewhat the
Pyrenees from Teruel to the Sierra-Nevada.

The population amounts to 2,158,000 contained therein souls.

3 º The Almeria Andalusia without, or is the Guadalquivir basin full
with the maritime region the narrow Mediterranean - containing 2,605,300
inhabitants.

4 The basin of the Guadiana, in fact composed of the main part of La Mancha (province Ciudad-Real),
part of the province of Toledo, Badajoz and all that is the main Extremadura. Population, 665.000
souls.

5 The basin of the Tagus, or New Castile (less Cuenca and Ciudad Real) and the province of Extremadura
Cáceres, with 1,300,000 inhabitants, round numbers.

6 The vast basin of the Duero, including Galicia (though harshly this is a separate group) and
excluding the provinces of Old Castile Tramontana of Logroño, Santander and Oviedo. Total population,
3,800,000 souls.

7 The maritime region of Cantabria, composed of the Asturias, and Santander province the Vizcaya and
Guipuzcoa Basque, between the Pyrenees and the Atlantic, and a population of 1,056,500 souls.

But
if we leave the old division of Spain (the actual history) as well as current policy, or purely
administrative, and beyond rather to the social divisions determined
by race, more or less mixed, customs, the old institutions, traditions
and economic conditions - in spite of the lines that separate orographic
some other counties, we will in fact Spain is composed of four or
groups Spains different populations can be determined as follows:

First
group .-- The Arab Spain or in predominantly Arab part, by blood,
customs and industry - vast region that encompasses the entire coastline
of the peninsula from the mouth Ebro to the Guadiana or maritime border
of Portugal, - understanding in Andalucías and all the ancient kingdoms
of Murcia and Valencia.

Second group - The Gothic Spain (although perhaps this adjective is not the most proper), which
primitive element predominates as amended by the Goths and Visogodos, and that was more strongly the
seal of the Middle Ages, vast region of alti-plains, plains and mountains
that includes the full Castile, Extremadura, the ancient kingdom of
Leon, Galicia, Asturias and Aragon.

Third group .-- The Catalan Spain (if I expression, but in itself does not accurately the idea),
a country populated by races are very mixed, but predominantly the
Roman element the strongly French, consisting of the four provinces
of Catalonia, and very special its language, customs, industry and
other social conditions.

Fourth group .-- The Celtic-Gallic Spain, character and special topography,
consisting of the Basque provinces and Navarre, a country that, by
its institutions and customs, could called democratic Spain.

These four groups, which are actually four different people have within themselves discrepancies more
or less sensitive by reason of topography, language and traditions
and customs.

But deep down have a clear analogy at all, justifying the classification indicated.

How work these social groups, and what are the differences more visible As to population density,
customs and the respective social condition?

                                   The following box, with its explanations (in which I have tried to
condense the groups) will respond, I seems, to these questions [6].

FIRST
GROUP