 

If the purpose had been clarified and scored more, sprucing up the author's ironic style sharpening
its tip, rather than the novel titled Lully Arjona, he could have the title Demolition of ideals.

In
effect, whether or not because things are not as good in this world
as desirable, because of the unpleasant nature of a social organism
or wrong and vicious, the fact is each of the ideals that Lully is
forming and placing way idol on a pedestal or stand, was demolished
soon, because the base or pedestal is grounded.

So just by Lully ideal lose some, but very sadly disappointed. From all this it could be inferred
the most ascetic Christian morals, that we should not put in this life, but in another better
target our aspirations and desires.

Lully, elegant and beautiful and so noble as poor, the daughter of a title thundered, aiming first to
marry a nice gentleman who is tender, love alive and reasonably, and enjoy of twenty or thirty
thousand dollars of income, to love you with luxury, comfort and
all the profiles and workmanship Eligible required.

Lully or blanket arrives in thirty years, and does not find such a boyfriend. The basis of this
ideal is crumbling. Lully has be content with half of the idealized. A lack of boyfriend or
husband, beautiful, love, handsome and discreet, happy and resigned to be rich. And Lully home.
Then tries for use to build a smaller, but still poetic ideal. In your imagination given to her
husband, and that no talent, straight view, extreme kindness, tenderness and sensitivity of affection.
With these qualities, and he being as good looking, elegant and agile sport, can not fail to satisfy
the pride of her and have her, if not in love, so grateful and devoted almost touch and be confused
with gratitude and love its performance.

Unfortunately it appears that Cabrera, who's the name of Lully's husband is a gentleman as
rude and vulgar sentiments, a few days of married, esteem or put in relationships daeef or sinful
with zuripantas, which in its path on the honeymoon.

No longer possible the conjugal devotion and affection with which he had dreamed Lully. New ideal
ground. Lully intended to replace the sublime poetry of motherhood,
in their joys, duties and sacrifices, but the thalamus is sterile
Cabrera.

There is a time when dreams quintessential Lully with a passion, pure,
chaste, without the slightest blemish to tarnish cleaning.

Lully fortunately found the right man for this purpose. Bespoke or could be better, but also
by a series of fortuitous events, long to present here, this arch-loving semi-mystical spiritual
and goes further: it seems that vanishes.

In short, the poor Lully, creating ideal bucket that chance or the
devil knocks then comes to fall in the most real and imaginable pitiful
meanness.

Middle surprised and a half violated, in a moment of weakness and blindness, almost without conscience
or spirit to resist, Lully surrenders and is delivered to a bold, bad man who did not deserve.

Even
after this fall Lully seeks comfort in an ideal, not again renewed. Expected to be a mother and intends
to devote to the child she bore all the vehemence affective of his
heart, his thoughts and life and being of his spirit.

So it is time Lully, and consoles himself with these ideas and plans, until it reaches the
expected day of delivery.

Lully is about to die, and stop a dead child.

The disappointment can not be more complete and more terrible. To top of misfortunes, he has
her sister died shortly before the humpback, discovering his love for the very violent man Lully
abused by surprise. And because this man had flirted with shit and up had intended, on the
grounds strange or perhaps by calculations of expediency, the poor Lully is not even the consolation
of her seductive figure, or as we like to call it, unless vile and heartless than I was.

This is the first fake story, really sick little consolation that Mr. Danvila has writing. Great
boldness is in the narrative, but are bordered or saved with art. And there is remarkable variety
and richness of the sets and episodes, and not a few jokes and discreteos in the dialogues, arguments
and letters that come into the fabric of the novel, his reading is not tired or distressed,
but delight, and also promises that its author has to keep writing, genre surpassing what has
already been written, and ensuring that their heroes and heroines high-life put on firmer ground
the foundations of their ideals so as not to sink into silt to the lower flip.

SISSY LEON

ORIGINAL NOVELS OF JOSEPH AND NOGALES NOGALES

Mr. Nogales, known as the general public by the prize story in the
open competition by The Liberal, has refused to confirm and confirmed,
in my opinion, the justice of earned that triumph, not just writing
stories, but large novels.

The headed the section that serves as I understand it has gone further still: Ladybug Lion gives
more to my liking than The three things we were promised Uncle John.

Life in a small rural Andalusia is well observed and neatly painted. Not the author of sin nor does
it follow neat fashion of certain French novels, where there is no object by mean and insignificant,
not weighed, measured and described in detail how more scrupulous in the inventory drawn up
by experts. Mr. Nogales is not, by that. Painted in broad strokes, and we thank them. The descriptions
of the novel is very far to tire, and are yet so alive, and seem as accurate and as true,
we see a Venusian, which is the name the village scene of his novel, walk down the streets
with the author the place and the fields that surround it, and entered the houses, yards and warehouses
of the farm houses of wealthy landowners.

The novel has a trace of romance, but not ideal and fantastic, but taken with keen observation
of reality itself and reproduced with art wise and sober.

The characters are real and have consistency, so that the main characters say they live, and
their actions and passions and stir interest.

Most of these characters, the chief Figs, his son, Tantrums, and Mayor-larán Larán is morally ugly
and mean, but the fans pessimistic prevails today in the works of genius, and we dare not
criticize the black of the box, although he would have preferred
less black.

All his figures, however, are not blackened by vices and sins. Some are sympathetic and morally
beautiful. Thus the physician D. Jacinto, the virtuous, energetic and easy Father Baquero,
Jayan graft rustic holy and venerable servant of God, rich in evangelical virtues, and the lovely
Mary Janes, that while in the background is very blurred, is an excellent young man.

The protagonist is soon as it is said, to praise. Ladybug Lion wants to be, and almost successful,
the prototype of the richest female of our time, no noble of high rank lady or servants of
the soil and fortresses and castles, but democratic peasant who she milked the cows, make cheese
and is used in other household chores and rustic duties. Ladybug Lion is laborious, active, clear,
and has the vigor and integrity suitable to rule his house and his property and to gain respect
and fear of enemies. And why has no sargentón Mariquita, tomboy or nun ensign. Mariquita is graceful
and beautiful, neat and tidy, charity to the poor, plain and affable in dealing, generous with
the little people, and with friends, loyal, loving and gentle. All the aforementioned characters
and not a few other second and third order in the novel speak very naturally and how they speak,
that is, without Mr. Nogales they do say the infinity things that in real life had to say
without a doubt, but no matter the purpose history, so the author
must do without them as if they never said.

The first rule of art, more importantly perhaps, the most difficult to observe and that rare
once observed, is to discard the irrelevant, and I think that Mr. Nogales hits Mariquita in
León to observe this rule.

Another rule is that, in my opinion, should always be followed, though Zola, books training
who has written about the art of composing novels, the repeal as useless, but as Zola follows
although often take for Repealed anyone would figure that is fun
and malice endorsed the repeal of that rule.

A novel is a series of cases experienced, observed experienced by those who play them later without
unity of action, but must have convenient link that makes all these cases, accidents or events,
attend the same order and contribute to the proper termination to the story.

Against this rule, which in my view should not be repealed, the author of Mariquita sins León. His
novel undoubtedly interest and delight, but absent from that rule, but interested and delight
most if not missing. And it is not necessary, but it is enough. In Ladybug Lion can say that
There are four actions rather than one: the feud between the mayor and tantrums, which is
stirred as beleaguered beast, and ends up killing his persecutors, the greed of Figs, which
excites Juanito without salt to steal the grain, and the disgusting and appalling struggle
between father and son discovered the theft causes and resulting in the death of the father, the
poetic and just started love between Mercedes and the doctor, sadly ending a separation thing, in
my view, dark and subtly reasoned, and finally, the painful disease sickly child, beloved son
of Mariquita Leon, whose death ends the novel. The above four actions, I do not see that influence
one another. All paths simultaneously and only agree on one point: to contribute to the disappointment
of the doctor D. Jacinto, disenchanted Village life goes on Venusta to live again in large
cities, where such After no less disappointments await. Peasant roughness has not given fruit
Venusta naive innocence, but the grossest corruption.

Desire to continue to give us medical D. Jacinto, begging Mr. Nogales
to accompany us and guide us to see if further of Venusian and largest
population and civilized things are a little better and we should
not ashamed of sin and regret so much misery.

ADVENTURES, INVENTIONS AND mystification

OF WILD PARADOX

No more bitter unlike me to fashion in literature, but how to prevent
it what should not be anything?

Good verses must always be esteemed and applauded. This can not be denied. It is most evident,
however, that the little Spanish that reads large audience tired of verses and shows disdain them
sick. The fans of the novel and prose story spreads and fans increasingly providing incentives
for many authors to cultivate the genre.

Little was prolific novelists throughout Spain in the eighteenth century and the first two-thirds
XIX. English and French novels translated into Castilian, almost sufficient for consumption
and serials published in daily newspapers, already inflicted on volumes.

It seems in the country where he had written the Amadis, La Celestina and Quijote, was lost
the ability to write novels. Today, by that, I flatter myself and believe that I am happy reborn
fitness, and waiting to be given by no less spicy fruit and tasty than come from France, England,
and even Sweden, Russia and Poland, and taste like with much delight the educated and that our
critics often get so through the roof.

To make this happen do not ask me that unfairly belittle foreign production
and imported, or that too much praise for what occurs here.

I ask only a little less of admiration and astonishment at what comes out and some more leniently
for the in Spain is written and published. It should also lay down the public's attention this
and thus arouse the curiosity and interest, even half that inspired the theater, tenth that
inspire even bullfights. What I propose is to contribute for this purpose to the extent of
my poor and almost weary.

It is, in my view, unique and enjoyable castizo roots that have the letters in Spain. Despite
of despondency where we have fallen, and despite the admiration and adoration semi-attached
want to own some of us feel contempt, not only by English novels and French, but also by the Swedes
and the Russians, the itch to imitate or not given, or if there is unexpected occurs imitate
the effect that, perhaps unintentionally, and even unsuspecting invincible driven throwback,
the old Spanish novel. Clear example this gives us implied by its title as head of this little article.
Don Pio Baroja, perhaps unwittingly, thinking of many foreign books undoubtedly have read,
it has been writing and has written the adventures of Silvestre Paradox, and renewed, as can
be renewed today, with different costumes, customs, habits and hobbies, our ancient novel picaresque.
Lazarillo de Tormes, Guzman de Alfarache, Marcos de Obregon, Estebanillo Gonzalez the hustler
D. Paul, donated talkative and other characters of the same stamp, are to be found in the realm
of fantasy and recognized as a very close relative of the hero disaster novel D. Pio Baroja. The
similarity of this hero to those above, highlight each step, while the differences come from different
ways of living there now. Wild Paradox page is no longer, nor squire, nor soldier going to
war and panache to Italy, Flanders and America, and becomes captive
in Algiers, not just as a penitent hermit in a desert, but struggle
through life as is customary now, and companies rush bold and sexually
adventurous, and presents from his new vantage point of human life
long series of paintings in which it does apply reality and truth,
but sometimes blackened by satire and grotesquely exaggerated by caricature.

Silvestre

Paradox is not a rogue former mode, but a bizarre semi-wise trying to invent or think you have
invented quite a few scientific devices. Models this has been able to find Mr. Baron in our
land, where little or no importance is invented long time, but where there is no shortage purposes
and attempted to invent flying machines direction, ships submarines, missiles smelly that whole
armies sufficient to drown mephitic with miasma, and squaring the circle, and continuous movement,
and countless other of workmanship.

I do not know me or throw me to scrutinize and investigate whether Mr. Baron has tried with his
novel prove any thesis or give us a moral lesson, social or political. But whether or not
his novel lesson or thesis, I'm just as free entertainment, I declare I had fun, and that is
enough for me to hold the author and recommended reading of his book, which is well written
with simplicity and grace, and without being heavy philosophies dissertations and other unwelcome.
Much appreciated is the latter in the day, when in the novel is to teach you everything you
need to know, incurring the heavy novelists unbearable. Because, as I said yesterday a friend of
mine, not a few novels teachers now is for him like chess: to play about scientists, and science,
about games.

For something enters the science on the novel by Don Pio Baroja, but enters as an element or ingredient
to entertain and outwit.

Although it is a bad comparison, is like seasoning or salt and pepper stew.

Someone censorship disorderly or almost rhyme or novel at hand. I believe very severe and all
but unfounded such censorship. The action, as in most all novels of its kind, is the protagonist's
entire life, or at least part of this life until he gets tired of writing who writes, and always
left open field and cut fabric to make up the second part, for while the latter said Cervantes
never any good, gloriously contradicted his Ingenious Hidalgo, accompanying
in contradiction with its new Lazarillo Moon, Matt German and others.

Pursued by creditors, full of disappointments and overwhelmed by poverty, Silvestre Paradox
Madrid escapes and goes to Valencia. Who knows what interesting or funny can happen next! Suffice
for now that we have fun and Mr Baron told us. And hopefully, finally, that by writing a second
part of Silvestre Paradox, and bringing out other heroes and taking new directions and issues,
Mr. Baron keep writing novels, and has aptitude for it, and try, without ceasing to be realistically
brighten, beautify and brighten the world with flashes describing ideals. Anyway, its Silvestre
Paradox, but so deep in the pond impure reality and almost drowning in it, we are very sympathetic
for his cheerful stoicism, for her ease and good humor that never
deserts him in the midst of his destitution incorrigible, cares and
troubles.

THE LAST PATRIOT

NOVEL BY JOSEPH AND NOGALES NOGALES

No doubt that everything that happens good and bad is because God wants, but the designs of
the Almighty are inscrutable, and risk making mistakes and even if we insist on swearing declared.
I infer here, that is risky to attribute to other punishment from
heaven the misfortunes that might fall on a community or an individual.

The beads droll often have a moral full of good sense. He played a man on Friday and lost its
flow, but not lost by playing on Good Friday, as the greedy also played on the same day and not on Saturday.

Many
times I have heard from serious subjects, and I've read in newspapers and books, which in
last war between France and Prussia, the French lost because they were then very corrupt and
cancan dancing too, but what was perhaps the Prussians some parents
of the wilderness, and not spent the same dance or other no less decomposed
and lewd?

His triumph was, therefore, other causes, not the greatest severity and purity of manners.

Yet another more rigid morality that people often rely to explain the large events, placing it
as one of the basic philosophy of history. People get a winner, and other people is defeated
in a war. Are we to say why the apparent degeneration the vanquished? Could be required as a
duty, could be regarded as an unavoidable condition for not go through degenerated before maturity
have heroes and martyrs in abundance? I I understand that. I understand the heroism and martyrdom
are highly praiseworthy for the same they are rare. The hero and martyr achieved immortal fame, but
when the doctrine, belief, the people or society for whom the sacrifice is to win out. Three hundred
of Thermopylae would be forgotten or madmen would pass, if after
slaughter had not sprung the unfading laurels of Marathon, Plataea
and Salamis.

It is also true that the heroic acts always worth much, if only to clean the defeat of all shameful
stain. Dying D. Rodrigo on the banks of the Guadalete and Hasting Harold, with his blood covered
up the shame of the rapid conquest of Spain and England Moors and Normans. And the last of the Paleologos,
fighting and dying gloriously in defense of Constantinople, was worthy
of the majesty cesarean; put an end to secular glory to Greeks and
Romans, and deserves no less acclaim that Leonidas and more pious
sympathy.

I do not want to clarify here, because the events are quite recent, if circumstances are similar
or are very different, and if there was or if it should be at the end unfortunately the Empire
Spain's colonial that had lasted four years, something beautiful and worthy of a great tragedy
characters that are tantamount to the Rodrigos, Harold and we said Paleologos. What I think you
might make is that the greatest sacrifice we have made blood money and would have had the
same result or more disastrous, because, on the loss of our colonies, the Yankees could have
ruined some of our cities the coast, and cause grave damage to our industry and resurgent trade
without throughout the former Spanish courage, reborn and even increased, we would have done much against
large armored ships, against right-handers against marine and sure
aim of colossal guns.

Abandoned throughout Europe with the sterile and useless commiseration of some powers and the superb
secular disdain and hatred of others, we'd always fallen in the struggle, and the more the fight had
lasted, deeper and more cruel it would have been our downfall. Must is resigned: no other choice.
What advantage can bring and recriminations? Concede there have been faults, whose punishment
has been our defeat, but the culprits have been and are so many that it is wiser not absolution,
but the amnesty, forgetting what has already happened, and forget the most horrible dream,
and make new life. Explain here how it should be this life effort is beyond my mental faculties,
and I think the few that have not taken the job of regenerating and reciting speeches or write
books therapeutic. The all you can say, without the presumption that claims to be endowed with
the power to regenerate or heal, is that in the day than at other ages, should be rich to be strong,
and should also win allies and friends, and not be alone in the world. The heroic courage,
can make miracles, but miracles should not rely on luck and the future of the country. And
that same heroic courage, whose fitness miracle granted, sometimes declines, and to die when
you are lacking in the community or the individual material resources, skill in arms and all means
of defense and offense are now more complicated and expensive than ever and require constant
study and long training to be well employees.

I moved to put the foregoing considerations here reading a novel
or as we like to call it, D. work Jose Nogales, whose title is the
last patriot