 

The wind was thickest at the crossing of Santa Barbara than in any other place of population.
This road is open between the bishop's palace and the walls of a patinejo of cathedral, where
it is to drop the chain lightning, goes to completion under a bow and a dark bend in the hurricane
encalleja and cries and laments at night as hellish as this.

A man muffled to the eyes quickly crossed the square in front of the house of bishops and entered
into this corner. Hurricane force arrested him, and rain, penetrating between the fold of the coat
and hat, he was deprived of sight. Resisted a moment to walk sign the fury of the blast, and
instead of releasing a strong interjection, never was more the case, let out a sigh of anguish.

-
Oh, my Jesus, what a night!

He leaned against the wall, and when the wind calmed his impulses kept going. Passed under arc
that connects the palace with the cathedral and entered into the better off and enlightened of the
voyage. An echo of oil set in the corner served to illuminate the whole. The poor fellow made
futile efforts, supported by a large tin butterfly, to send some clarity to the confines of its
jurisdiction. But, beyond ten yards in radio, nothing raising suspicion of their presence. However,
we must have seemed a lamp wrapped Edison ten thousand candles, judging by the care with which even
got her veil and the haste with which left the sidewalk to walk adhered to the wall of the courtyard
in the shadows thickened. Released in this fashion to the streets of Santa Lucia, glanced quickly
from one side to another, and ran back to the darkest place. Santa Lucia Street, to be the
most central, is also the loneliest. Is close to completion at the base of the tower the basilica,
slim and elegant as few in Spain, and usually serves only way the canons that go to the choir
and the devotees who come to Mass at dawn.

On this street, short, straight, poorly paved and old village, stood the palace Quiñones Leon. It
was a big factory dark baroque facade with projecting iron balconies. It had two floors, and on the
central balcony of a huge shield worked first coarsely and defended by two giants in high
relief as crude as their barracks.

One of the side walls fell on small wet garden, neglected and sad and closed by a regular wall of
elevation, the other on a street even more wet and dirty open between home and the black wall
and peeling of the Church of San Rafael. To switch palace to the church, where the platform had
reserved Quiñones, there was a bridge or broker closed, smaller, but similar to what the bishops are
on the journey of Santa Barbara. Clearly alive by leaving a slit to pass the half-open balcony
warned that homeowners were not yet delivered to the rest. And if the accused clearly did not, acusábanlo
more clearly the muffled sounds of a piano that was left inside when you hear the heartbeat I
consented furious hurricane.

Our wrapped followed briskly and hiding in the shadows as he could, to palace gate. There he
stopped, turned to take a look suspicious to them both sides of the street, and went resolutely
to the portal. It was large, pebble-paved as street, smooth and whitewashed walls of a long time,
sadly lighted by a lamp oil hanging in the center. The muffled through him swiftly, and without
pulling the cord hood hit his ear against the door, so that was still some moments listening.
Made sure no one was down, turned to the front door and headed another look for it. Resolviose
finally opened her veil and drew from under a package layer deposited on soil with a trembling
hand, near the door. It was a basket. It was covered with a blanket of women, which could not observe
what was kept there, although I suspected. From Moses, the mysterious baskets seem destined
to save infants. The batter, and desarrebozado, threw three times the bell cord, and instantly,
from above, opened by another string. The three bells indicated that he entered the aristocratic
Quiñones mansion was a noble, a pair of gentlemen. Time was the establishment of this custom,
not knowing how. A workman, a servant, a subordinate, for any reason, but did not call a bell
called with two visits, and the half dozen or so Nobleman of people that Mr. Quinones considered
his equal in Lancia did three, by agreement tacit or express, that never was found. Whispering
in the city this difference: those who had never walked the halls of the house, those who
teased visited them daily, they responded by denying the species, but even secretly humiliated
respected the feudal custom, no one was daring to give the three strokes of the second estate.
Paco Gomez ventured only once to make a joke or boast, but to reach room was received with surprise
and so contemptuous coldness, were you not want to repeat.

The man hurried into the basket and close the door, crossed the porch
and up by the large stone staircase on whose steps are worn by use
constantly oozing some moisture.

On reaching the main floor a servant came to fetch him the cape and hat. And without further
ado, as if someone chased him, threw himself in haste to the door plant the room and opened it.
The bright light of the chandeliers and candelabra darkened him instantly. Was a tall, burly, thirty
to thirty-two years of age, appearance and sweet regular features: hair cut spending at the
point of scissors and luenga beard, blond and silky. At that moment his face was pale and showed
deep concern.

As he raised his eyes, too clearly that forced him to shut down, straightened
look the lady of the house, sitting in an armchair.

She in turn stared at him another intense and anxious. It was a shock that instant gave rest
to their faces, like two forces equal to neutralized. The gentleman stopped at the door waiting
to cross five or six pairs who came spinning to the beat of a waltz, and her lips were folded
with a smile faded so sweet and sad.

- What an afternoon!

We did not expect you to come and - said Mrs. holding out his hand fine nerve, which contracted
three or four times with intense emotion to collide with it.

She was a woman of twenty to thirty years, petite body, pale face
and expressive eyes and very black hair, small mouth and nose slightly
aquiline.

- How are you, Amalia? - Said the gentleman, without answering
the cry, hiding anxiety in a smile that shone through his grief was
as tremulous voice.

- I'm better ... Thank you very much.

- Does
not it make you damage this noise?

- No ... I was very bored in bed
... Besides, would not deprive the girls of the only recreational
which currently have in Lancia.

- Thank you, Amalia - exclaimed a
young woman who had been dancing and heard the last words the lady.

This gave him a kindly smile.

Another couple was behind collided with the gentleman, who was still standing.

- You always clogging, Luis!

- Nobody but you, Maria Josefa - the young man, laughing to cover
up involvement still felt pregnant.

- Are you sure it only me? -
She asked while raising his leer to the gentleman who took her in
his arms.

Josefa María Hevia was already at least forty years, and fifteen were almost as ugly despite saying,
as his forties.

As also did not have enough finances to restore balance, no courage had come to redeem the purgatory
of being single.

Up short time ago still flattered by the hope that, if not a chicken, at least throw to ask her
some of the Indians who were arriving singles to settle in Lancia. Fundábala in the trend they
showed to marry the daughters of distinguished families of the population, but they should take
dowry. She belonged to the male line to one of the most illustrious, as a relative of Mr. Quinones,
whose we are home. But his father had died, and lived with his mother, low-class woman, cook
before entering the bridal chamber of his master. Whether by this or, more likely, well stated
and the proverbial ugliness of his figure, nor the Indians chopped bait the hook. And yet,
with or without cause, usually low-cut over the account to ostensible which, according to public
voice, was less wrong with your body. The face was repulsive, factional incorrect, swollen
with erysipelas We often disfigured by some red flares he rose to his nose. Female of his dreams
he had nothing left but one, that of dance: it was a passion: suffering horribly neglected whenever
the chickens Lancia let her eat turkey. But revenge is so beautifully from them and they possessed a
language so steely that most of the young men sacrificed at least one dance soirees at all: when neglected,
these girls remembered him, fearing the wrath of the fierce maid. Dancing, as well as the most
beautiful damsel Lancia for the opposite reason, ie the healthy who had managed to inspire
terror. She knew, and even humiliated in the depths of the soul, not left to take advantage,
choosing which concluded lesser of two evils. He had shrewd and malicious spirit, looked great
ridicule of the actions recounted with grace and was also equipped with a special gift for each
person hurt when he fancied, to the quick.

- Have you already reached the count? - Said a gruff voice coming out of the next cabinet and overcame
to click the piano and the footsteps of the dancers.

- Yes, here I am, D. Pedro ... I go there.

The count took a step toward the cabinet, without looking away from the pale lady. You nailed it
another intense look that read a question.

He closed his eyes saying, and became immediate stay.

The same thing is that the room was furnished without luxury. The Founding Fathers Lancia disdained
these refinements of the set, as usual today. Not by greed but to understand rightly lay prestige
rather than wealth or richness of purple, the hallmark of respectable antiquity possessed,
refused them any innovation, the same internal than external. Aged furniture, tarnish, carpets
and curtains would be fraying. The owners appeared not to notice it. Above all, D. Pedro Quiñones
showed negligence in this respect that bordered on swagger. Neither the entreaties of his wife, nor the
indirect that some daring, as Paco Gomez, used to jokingly allowed, I decided never to call painters
and upholsterers. It is guessed that this resolution was influenced by the disdain with which looked
at the luxury displayed by some Indians in the furnishings in their homes.

The lounge, which is up to the dimensions, was superb, spacious, very high ceiling, occupied
all the balconies in the street of St. Lucia, except for the cabinet.

The old stalls, but not imitating forms of remote centuries, as now used, was built in the past
the taste of the time, and lined with green velvet and worn. The carpet weaving discovered in several
places. On the walls hung some magnificent tapestries. This was the luxury of home. D. Pedro
Quiñones had a collection of great value. Once used to display them year, hanging from balconies
on the Corpus for the passage of the procession. It was reported that an Englishman they had
offered him a million pesetas. Also had some pictures former merit, so obscured by time, if
a skilled hand did not come soon restore, conclude disappear. The only new thing in the room
had was the piano, purchased three years ago, shortly after marrying his second wife D. Pedro.

The
cabinet also large, with a balcony overlooking the street of St. Lucia and two of the garden,
scenery was worse yet. Large damask curtains, two oak cabinets without mirror silk-lined sofa,
some chairs of cowhide, a round table in the center and some chairs
for the sofa, all tattered and faded well.

Around the central table and lighted by large oil lamp with green screen, were three gentlemen
playing ombre. The homeowner was one of them. Would have forty-six to forty eight years old,
for three he was entirely unable to move, as a result of a stroke that paralyzed his legs. It
was big, brown face and features strongly marked, strong, his hair and beard, whitening and for
many points, strong abundant, curly, black eyes and sunken look awesome. In his appearance had
an expression of pride and ferocity that even the friendly smile that welcomed the Earl of
Onís able to extinguish it completely. I was leaning more than sitting in a chair built purposely
to facilitate the movement of the trunk and arms, and leaning to the side table so that it was possible
to play and have your legs extended. Although the fire burned some logs of wood, wrapped with
a gray Talma closed his neck snap gold. Embroidered on her side of the heart, there was a large
red cross of the Order of Calatrava. Mr. Quinones rarely dispensed this Talma, which made her
look a little beat and theatrical.

He had always been extravagant in dress. His pride led him to find a way to distinguish the vulgar.
On several occasions he saw closed coat, hat and clogs: spent long hair, like a knight of the
seventeenth century; We often wore velvet dress or corduroy riding boots, wearing boots when no one
remembered them, and large necks shirt turned on the vest, imitating the old flange. Never was man
more precious of nobility or more effort to revive the prestige and
privileges they enjoyed it in past centuries.

The crowd murmured their extravagances and many laughed at them, because Lancia is a town where there
are many humorous spirits, but as always happens, This hubris was over fierce prevailed. Those
who mocked more gracefully of the oddities of Don Pedro were the most submissive and removed his hat
performance so I saw half a league.

He had lived at the court some time during his youth, but it did not take root. He was a gentleman
with exercise and enjoyment of the benefits and privileges that his wealth and birth granted it,
but not enough to satisfy her heart swelled with pride. The strange amalgam of the aristocracy
of blood money to hurt him and irritated him. Respect to granted to politicians and that he was
obliged to pay taxes because of their by reddened with anger. A son of nowhere, a ragamuffins pass
him with head up, giving him a look indifferent or contemptuous!

To him, a direct descendant Sovereign of the counts of Castile! Not to suffer and the love he
professed for Lancia resigned employment and came to live again churrigueresco palace where we are.
Pride, or perchance his eccentric character, he did commit, at this period of his life mayorazgo
bachelor thousand extravagances and absurdities that amazed and were the delight of the city
until they become accustomed. D. Peter did not go out into the street never unaccompanied by
his servant or a steward, uncouth man, wearing the peasant costume of the country, ie short
pants with wool socks, flannel jacket and slouch hat green stripe. And not only Manin was dating
(by that name was universally known), but led him to theater. Was to see both a main stage, he, rigid,
right, casting her eyes distracted the room, the servant, with the palms of your hands on the railing
and beard on hands to the astonished eyes on the stage, dropping barbarian raucous laughter, yawning,
scratching his neck and screaming in the middle of silence. Came to him in cafes and even took
him to dances. Manin became an institution in a short time. D. Peter barely deigned to speak
to the wealthiest people of Lancia, held talk roll with him and admitted being contradicted
in the rough and rude manner that he could only.

- Manin, man, you're bothering to repair these ladies - told him maybe being found both at any
store.

- Well, well, because if they are to taste, bring home a mattress and lie down - responded the
barbarian aloud.

D. Peter bit his lip to hold the cloth, because it made such extreme
grace rudeness and brutality.

If I entered a cafe, Manin paneled downed red wine as he used to drink sparingly a glass of muscat. But
always ordered a bottle and pay, although leave almost full.

Showing some surprise by this prodigality an apothecary of the population to who ever deigned
to speak, replied with a cold arrogance

- Pay a bottle, because
it seems unseemly D. Pedro Quiñones de León ask for a drink any c.
.. inks political government offices.

Also caused surprise in the city that the clerics greet them kiss in the street hand, imitating the
custom of the nobles in other centuries.

This respect was not only a distinguish themselves and prove through his high rank, like everything
else. Because the chaplain at his service, even kissed her hand in
public, he was treated as a domestic in private.
