 In mock where
the ceremony that celebrated the moral and material regeneration Peñascosa was a insolence,
and as rightly said D. Juan Casanova, "was not a good idea of ??the culture of Lancia press.
"kissed not because, although D. Gaspar was certain tendencies to do so, their noses too close
to the face of purple appeared, but this one withdrew, giving evidence of prudence, because
it spoke in terms of very serious Peñascosa D. noses Gaspar.

Finished the anthem, started again and repeated indefinitely to desserts. Governor again addressed
the floor to the public. A few governors to oust gives municipalities, others because they take
the mattresses placed the Provincial. To him was by eloquence. D. replied Peregrin Casanova,
and was able to call him "my distinguished companion "and allude to the high duties imposed
by the government of a province," he had tried to meet once the extent of weak forces. "He also
spoke D. José Mary the apothecary, advocating the advancement of religion as "an element of progress"
(le frasecillas were certain that the time was a freethinker) and as "obstacle to the desires
bastards. "Jose spoke the tobacconist, spoke D. Remigio Flórez, the manufacturer of canned food,
spoke the editor of El Porvenir Lancia (a few days ago that he had fought a saber D. Rosendo
Belinchón, director of The Lighthouse Sarrió). And the governor spoke again. An editor of The
Young Sarrio tried to say a few words, but he was interrupted with a few murmurs from the boxes,
and sat very bland. Finally, D. Gaspar Silva walked across the stage with a paper in his hand.
"Silence! Chis, hush! ... That shut up! - Silence! Out! - Chis, hush! "In the midst of a religious
silence, the famous bard of rocks began to read an ode to dramatic voice of religion. No sacred
subjects were his specialty. He had always preferred to put the lira to the service of freedom
and democratic ideas. His best composition was a sonnet to synallagmatic bilateral pact. Understanding,
however, with profound insight, the sublime destination that heaven had designated sang, as
poets and demigods of antiquity, all that is offered his view, peace and war, democracy and
manors, religion and free thought. This ode, which began: "Oh sweet religion immaculate!" Was
spirited and was greeted with live samples approval. The banquet ended dark.

At six o'clock the sexton and some city employees began to illuminate the lanterns the Venetian
Field of fainting, so that the eight were almost all on.

The evening was made very happy. In one corner of the villagers danced to Country sound of the
bagpipe and drum, and another did the same the craft to the beat of the municipal band. People ran
through the free space less and less relief, as the street Quadrant could not stop vomiting
blue blouses and scarves on the above Country percale. The most exquisite peñasquense society took refuge
on the porch of the church, establishing the familiar caste divisions. Organizose a walk immediately
where strangers could Lancia see at a single glance all the great and majestic in its enclosed
Peñascosa breast. There was the mass gathering of Ms Eloisa, and also another part of the nobility
The villa, with which we could not put the reader in relationship. Having enjoyed for a long time
the pleasure of seeing, as the immortals on Mount Olympus, isolated and above other created
beings, that society was breaking into the field of Fainting to watch the fireworks from the
renowned pyrotechnic Palencia. Entered without decomposition, with a disdain and severity of respect
calculated to replenish the heart of the lower castes.

Flowing down like a monkey through the beautiful dark, seeking the proximity of the obese women
and if not, the of which were in regular meat, he was our friend Osuna, administrator Montesinos
home.

By the time he was not surprised won more than a slap; strange case, because in these nights of
fun used to meet half a dozen, so less. Somewhat disappointed in this aspect, not so much as slapping
what preceded them, She moved impatiently glancing butchers around him, without finding a place
enough pleasant and delightful to set their steps. That night they had met all the skinny of
rocks. But lo, when it starts to burn the first round of gunpowder, discerns not far from the cool
Ms Theodora, the constant dream of its existence, more radiant and lush than ever, with his
white hair and pink cheeks smooth and shiny skin. Verla and set out for it was all one. But
this way in such circumstances was more difficult than anyone can imagine. People thronged to
see the fireworks and remained motionless, forming a thick wall. Our hunchback's through with
diabolical art, writhing like a lizard to pass through the narrow holes. After a good time managed
to get behind the cute buxom. He was escorted by two brothers Casanova, who had come along together
with the maid. Continued fighting over their hearts, furious effort by the D. Peregrin, with
noble and severe tranquility by D. Juan. In this contest the virtuous and mature love girl suffered
a lot, believe guilty of the best fights that erupted between two brothers. Sought to maintain
neutrality but missed seeing D. Peregrin took the brunt. Explicábale it in the tone sufficiency that
characterized him, some interesting details of the fireworks industry and cited a number of
fires he had seen during his time as clerks, truly amazing. D. Poor Juan, who had never left
the narrow space of rocks and could not cite anything, silent as ever. But he ran buxom pulquérrima
occasionally a soft look and a soft smile still, they could compensate for his sedentary life.

When Ms Theodora turned his head to see who pressed both and found Osuna changed color. That damned
hunchback never gave her no peace. At the gathering, on the promenade, in the theater, church, anywhere
where I had occasion to approach, was known need was seen to suffer the nasty touch their legs
and sometimes their hands too. Osuna was familiar with his ground. The beautiful and buxom pudorosa
had fallen before dying of embarrassment to admit to any attacks
he was receiving.

But if the confession, anyone could ascertain them, noting the state of agitation he was. On
this occasion, the hunchback walked excessively bold. Ms Theodora began show signs of anxiety such
that for any would be visible. D. Juan did not see no however. It was a pure and magnanimous
man, incapable of suspecting the big dirt can have on earth. But D. Peregrin, a man of the
world, concluded by noting some what was happening. Osuna spied the corner of my eye, and when
his spirit went into government the conviction of the violation being committed, he began to
snore and whistle for nose as a mist in danger, while throwing glances of indignation flashing
the bold hunchback. He ignored those whistles at all afraid, and did not see even fateful
expression of the eyes of former acting governor of Tarragona. What had happened? The boiler
of the tug, having no more relief than the nose, broke out with horrible noise.

- Listen, rude, dirty, cynical, earless! - Roared D. Peregrin catching by the neck the deformed and
shaking with rage .-- If you continue in this way annoying Madam, with this hand (holding the
right) give a slap on the cheek, and with the other (Holding the left) will give you another slap
in the opposite direction. Continuous act will come back to you, and with these boots fat you see
here I give you two kicks in the butt.

Physicist D. Peregrin was no purpose to instill panic in the heart
of enemies.

However, severe and administrative continent as few and the voice stream great that nature endow
him pretty well made up for the deficiency of other organs. In addition, Osuna was to be weaker
and more wretched than he. For this and the uproar that ensued then, instead of coping, slipped
into the crowd and disappeared in a time. Ms Theodora, to be the subject of public curiosity,
she fainted. D. Juan and the Maiden sustained it. D. Peregrin kept
shouting at his enemy away.

The crowd laughed, cried, stirred noisily. At last all was peace, and returned to his buxom
prudish home where we will spread a flood of tears.

Obdulia, busy all day by a sharp pain and a rabid desire to redress injustice had been committed
to his beloved spiritual director, did not leave home or bed. Was really sick. Had a fever,
the fever that occurs in the temperament like hers a single thought to be exacerbated by degrees.
At night he got up and dressed hastily. Her large blue circles are now marked in a way shocking.
A Wrinkle deep, unshakable resolution sign, he furrowed his brow. She called the maid and said
he wanted to go out and see the fireworks.

All it did to dissuade her, by representing the serious damage that could cause the cold and damp
night, it was useless. He took the blanket, threw it over the head with convulsive hand, forced
to be domestic hers and took to the streets. The Field of boiling and people fainting. It took
a lot further work to be placed in the middle. Obdulia wanted at all costs approach the house the
pastor, where he was staying prelate. He had seen it shining glasses and hide immediately in one
window. Below, on the very doorstep of the rectory, a large group giraldilla girls danced, singing
as loud improvised couplets of circumstances at the time. Them alluded to the new church, compliments
to the Bishop, the Governor, Peñascosa the founding fathers, without missing either, of course,
the usual little stitch to Sarria.

The imagination of Osuna's daughter worked tirelessly to increase the fever that consumed her.
But over a thousand thoughts and ghosts circling it, sticking out an idea fixed, stubborn,
who unwittingly drove his way with his elbows through the crowd, followed by the maid, who did
not understand the desire of his lady. When they were coming to the rectory, she stopped a few minutes.
Observed from the corner of the eye to her maid, and when he saw more absorbed in the contemplation
of the fires that were burning, maneuvered skillfully and moved away
from her hiding among the people.

Once alone, he stopped again. After conducting countless looks of anxiety and fear of the priest's
house after met more than twenty times and to repent so many, finally slipped like a shadow behind
the girls dancing and having a circle of spectators around, and entered the door of the house. Inside
it had a few servants who talked looking from there they could. Was wide open, and Obdulia,
without saying word was introduced by her and climbed a few stairs. But stopping suddenly and
remaining an indecisive moment, turned to lower them and went to the group home.

- Is the secretary of the bishop's up? - Asked to nearest.

- D. Cayetano? ... Yes, ma'am, is up - said one of the most distant.

- Could you speak a word with him?

- Why not? ... I will tell ... Go up with me.

Rose both in the dirty step D. Miguel, as neither by the arrival of
the prelate had cleared.

- Have the kindness to wait a moment.

Appeared shortly after the secretary, a middle-aged cleric, ugly, ungainly, but look smart and
outspoken.

He looked with great curiosity and asked, trying to appear friendly:

-
You ask me, ma'am?

- Yes, sir.

- You tell me ...

- I talk to the
bishop.

The secretary looked at her more curiously still, and after a moment's
hesitation, appearing on her face a hint of a smile, replied:

- You
understand that the time is appropriate ... Your Excellency is going
to retire soon to rest ...

- It is urgent and very important I have
to tell ...-- said abruptly.

Again looked at the priest with penetrating eyes, noticing her agitation.

-
Well ... What I can do is tell your gift to His Grace ... Do not answer
that you receive it at this time ... Can you pass this room and wait
a moment.

No take to bring the answer.

He opened the door of the boudoir of receipt, he brought a lamp and
left her alone.

At that moment She felt that leaving all his strength. The heart started pounding him chest.
The room was moving slowly as the chamber of a vessel.

Was forced to be held with both hands on the back of a chair for
not coming to the floor.

Secretary appeared within minutes, without crossing the door frame,
said with affected solemnity

- Your Excellency will arrive at this
time.

Obdulia closed her eyes and gripped more tightly to the chair.

When he opened them before him him the towering figure of the prelate.

The room was half-lit because of the screen that covered the lamp. Contours of that figure
faded into the shadows. But diamonds sparkled pectoral and glass lenses also shone the faint
rays of light on them fell. Advanced a few steps down the hall. Obdulia dropped to his knees.

- Is it for a matter of conscience, my daughter - the prelate asked him sweetly, giving at the
same time to kiss his ring.

- Yes, sir - the young voice replied with emotion altered .-- It is for a matter of conscience of
His Excellency.

- About my conscience? - Said the bishop, rising slowly and dropping on it a look of surprise
and curiosity.

- The pure consciousness, His Excellency knows better than me, is
subject to error.

When believe we are doing good do evil. The Soul of Your Grace is noble and holy, according to
all who know her.

For something God has chosen to shepherd his flock. But the eyes of His Excellency does not
reach all parts as those of God. His arm is extended in vain to bless. The blessing does not reach
everyone. Among the pastors that His Excellency is positioned to help the need to keep faithful
and love the flock, there are also with the light and love fixed upon themselves ...

- Get you, my dear ... What do you mean by this?

- What I tell you, sir - Osuna's daughter uttered boldly, suddenly
sobering under the impulse of exaltation - is that we had in this
town a zealous coadjutor, model self-denial, humility, duty, who had
made immense sacrifices to force inspire devotion and piety to the
many who never had felt that without any violence had arranged the
parish and returned to God what belonged to him ... Well, I known
... we learned with pain all the faithful, instead of letting him
in the position that performed in the interim, Your Excellency has
given it to someone else ...

The bishop gazed in silence for a space.

The young woman under his gaze, which passed by penetrating glass lenses, inquisitive, lost
again serenity.

- Is the interim coadjutor who sends you to address a representation? - Asked with extreme calm,
stressing each syllable in a way that was epigrammatic.

- Oh! No, sir - all troubled the girl exclaimed, turning red .-- Mr.
coadjutor not has no suction.

He is so happy with the job and without it. Nothing I know or anything you know ... It was I
who by hate injustice inspires me I dared to take this step ... perhaps
unwisely ...

- No case!

No chance! - Murmured the prelate, shaking his head.

Quedósela again staring without blinking, absorbed in intense contemplation. Obdulia lowered
his head.

- My daughter - she went on gravely, - youth has its rights.

You may be dazed, forethought as enjoyable without the gifts that
God has favored us, living obfuscated without the thought of sin ...
But youth is not entitled to play for our salvation eternal, life
and death.

The Holy Catholic Church has its ministers to ensure the faith. I, though unworthy, I am one
of them and I am responsible before God and Supreme Pontiff of my
actions.

I have not learned any Pope or any decretal prelates that we had to account for them girls like
you ...

- Oh, my lord ... I did not want! ...

- Listen, you listen with patience, my dear, I heard you on your knees to your bishop.

Obdulia knelt again full of confusion, as red as a poppy.

The portly figure be enlarged enormously from the bishop before his
eyes, his white hair crowned purple skull shining majesty.

- The
offices of the Catholic Church should not be coveted jobs: not searched
accepted with humility and resignation.

The higher, harder and thorn is for those who want to serve God. You, speaking of injustice,
has apparently seen as a means of gain, and sinned grievously. If I have not given the post
of coadjutor to the person for whom you interest, that person should
thank me because I have fought many terrible responsibilities that
hamper their eternal salvation.

Obdulia, watching the lightning march again towards his confessor, found words to deflect.

- Again I say, my lord, Gil's father knows nothing of this happened ... to die of sorrow and shame
if it comes to know, because it is the modesty and humility personified.

The estimation and respect that teachers, like all residents of this
village, and my desire to see the parish in order and well served,
I drove in a moment of levity to go His Grace ...

- But do not you
understand, my dear, that in taking this step, unusual in a young
wise and pious you commit yourself, and what is worse, you commit
yourself to a priest seriously?

- Oh Holy Virgin!

What have I done? - Said the girl covered her face with her hands .-- Yes yes, I understand
now that I've been a fool, than trying to do good I have done a terrible bad ... His Excellency
and rightly despises me because I'm just a poor dumb ... But is not that bad ... The horrible
thing is that from now on will be warned against poor fool ... Jesus in my heart, what temptation
was mine! ...

She broke into sobs madly muttering unintelligible phrases.

The bishop leaned her and spoke softly.

- Sosiéguese you, my dear. Sosiéguese you and learn that a successor of the Apostles did not
prevention may feel no hatred. If you have sinned, ask for absolution from his confessor. Serénese
you, no punishment has caused more than herself ... Neither the innocent
and the guilty are nothing to fear from me.

I fear that all of God ...

After asking many times for forgiveness and shed countless tears, kissed her again with Obdulia
devotion ring prelate, and rose. Without raising his eyes from the ground muttered weakly

- Goodbye, Mr. Bishop.

Excuse me Your Excellency the disgust that I have caused, and forget it.

- May the Blessed Virgin protect you, my child.

Say a save for me, well I need it - answered The prelate, letting go and looking at her expression of
shame until it broke through the door.

Left stunned, mad with shame, his hands trembling and her cheeks flushed.

As came home got into bed with a raging fever.

XI

Already guessed the riddle, father Gil - said D. Álvaro from his chair
when he saw him enter.

The smile that accompanied these words was so surprised that was contracted and cold.

       

- What enigma? - Asked P. Gil, a little shaken by the presentiment of some misfortune.

- Do not be frightened, not that of Creation: an enigma more modest, the coming of my Peñascosa
woman a few months ago ... Know you this letter.

The young priest took from the hands of primogeniture which presented
itself and began to read:

* * * * *

"My dear Alvaro: I know that
Joaquina gave birth six days ago a child, which enrolled in the parish
and civil registration with your name.

I have tried to inform me and they said it was perfectly legitimate,
since your wife has been in Peñascosa few months ago and has stayed
in your own home.

       I write in haste to ask if true.

I doubt it, because I've never said a word about it. Answer me immediately.

JULY.

"

* * * * *

Fr Gil dropped his arms, bent his head and muttered hoarsely:

- What a disgrace!

The mayorazgo laughed.

- But do you think there is still infamous in the world? What works for you much as it has read?
I want to tell me how it is possible to crap in a toilet. For Apparently, you are still attending
the first performance of the comedy.

I am in the second, and I can say in advance what will happen.

- Anyway, D. Álvaro, it hurts in the soul is unworthy that you have made without merit.

- Indignity? Do you call the spider outraged that drowns the poor flies in his web, or milano
falling on the innocent chick and grabs the air?

For the same force infamous (Now that's the infamous!), The same force that moves the spider
and the dove is the living inside my wife. The fly, chicken and I deserve the same fate for
being born. Because felony - the man is being born, has already said Calderon, who was a priest
like you.

Fr Gil thought for a moment and said at last, as if speaking to himself:

-
I can not quite persuade us that there is more than blind force, that
light occasionally shines in the hearts of men, and sometimes called
justice others love and devotion, depend exclusively on chemical combinations.
Is infamy infamy always in our minds and awakens a feeling of disgust.
The Spider and the Kite not that they do evil, but his wife knows.

-
What does it matter? Empower you to the beast with an awareness of
their actions and you will be formed man. Consciousness is not just
a torch. The same crimes can be executed in darkness than light. If
I thought like you there is a God conscious creator of all beings,
we send a "kissing hand" praising him for having been a child so kind
and lovely as my wife and thanking her for having reserved for me
particular application