 The usurper was forced to replace
the momentum of the fact consented, it is the strength of a species (and missing always done
again when the environment has not changed), a supplementary force equivalent of another species, which
in our case was designated as the "special powers". Thus, the chronic terror, which was enough for
the fact chronic terror becomes acute acute need for fact.

As the French terror, terror Argentine left of the foregoing circumstances, continuing in different
shape and size. "Do not be deleted but it is replaced," and when replacing with something of
the same species, in varying degrees, "plus ça change, plus c'est la même chose."

Force and fear was the former colonial regime, more strength and fear was fatally and Regular restored
by Rosas regime. A new factor, and other species, was introduced after, say one for only the influence
of this have been possible other, not being viable ignorant and backward people in European immigration,
free press, railways, telegraphs, etc., etc. And the most interesting problem of sociology
Argentina may be posed in these terms: why we were still semi-barbarian in the first half of the
century last, after 1,500 years of Christianity forced, and we are already more than half-civilized
with 50 years of schooling almost mandatory?

* * *

Of course, civilization is the economics of life and suffering, and the corresponding enhancement
of the amenities of life.

Although theology was not proposed to civilize the men for this world (such as philosophy, pedagogy,
politics and health), but for the other, the men had proved even in this civilized involuntarily,
but had the disability itself or springs immoral, in a back room of ancient monstrosities,
enough to neutralize and even sometimes overcome all of its elements and cultural factors, even
at its highest representatives. It is legitimate to assume that without the intervention of
Greek philosophy and positive science, the pure Christian civilization would have remained
semi-barbarous and absolutist such as Islam. And it is equally certain that the Spanish Christianity,
as introduced in America by the conquistadores, contained more elements
diabolical than divine, more fear that love, more harm than good,
removing men confidence in themselves and making slaves of terror.

According to modern theories, that daily experience confirms, the individual plays in brief
the evolution of the species, so that even in civilized nations, we all start the existence in the mental
state of the wild adult, both unjust and vengeful feelings needs, desires, hopes and fears, and
knows no duties or responsibilities, we are naturally easier and accessible what has this character
and not the opposite given that the anger, hatred, terror, alcohol or accidental brain damage
or permanently deprive us of acquired and superimposed culture - the more easily the weaker
or newer ie - stayed in the initial pure barbarism, and overlooks
the wild is always latent in civilized man.

Consequently, what all have of primitive religion is what the child
can understand and treated immediately, it is consistent with his
intellect early or primitive and it will stay when other factors do
not rise to higher skills.

Conversely, what a religion has its own high and the highest development of spirit, you can not
understand, and it will happen by raising the child and the poor
in spirit, as happened in the experiment of the Jesuits, who developed
the Christian automata Missions.

"The Chinese preference to entertain the gods of evil, says Beauvoir. His maxim is: Do not care
of the divine good, as good, but will support the poor that can harm. "Understandably While
the gods of savages are always bad, if you think that only then respectable character are intelligible
to the child or those of civilized peoples. "Tata God, who has no toys or candy, and angry with
bad or disobedient children, and punished, not unlike the "Cuckoo" but it always does evil, without
before you get angry, because it is bad profession. Also, if God was angry and punished, the child
would not touch a case. And if not accustomed send cataclysms, earthquakes, plagues, epidemics.,
etc., for the reluctant, nor would a lot of money for churches of
believers adults.

"Present the wild, says Lecky, the conception of an invisible being, to worship without the aid
of any material representation, and will be unfit to understand. Have no force or palpable reality to
his mind, and therefore can not influence your life. Idolatry is the common religion of the natives,
simply because it is the only that its conditions Intellectuals can admit, and, in one form or another,
will continue until those conditions have been changed. "When they are, the semi-wild mind will
be a seedbed of invisible beings, which later will become incomprehensible, for the former
wild, this is how progress amazing lights made witchcraft, and testo
sacred, "not suffer a witch alive, "has been recited, but impractical.

Preventing or prohibiting the intellectual culture and tolerance, culture is morality, Christian
churches that were in it the heaven and hell, civilization and barbarism, suppressed mental possibilities
for the upper parts of their own doctrines, and they were misunderstood, unheeded, while the
parties were living below letter during the ten centuries of pre-scientific era, in which Christian
civilization, with hell and devils, witches, goblins, and wizards hechicheros, incubus, succubus,
Sylphs, gnomes, etc. with servitude, slavery and torture, it differed
from the Jewish or Muslim but because of their greater ferocity.

The music itself can understand or ignores each in proportion to the pitch or the detuning of your
ear, and goes without anyone can understand and feel but what within their reach intellectual
and moral founders of religions have been common spirits, but exceptionally
high, and therefore almost always misunderstood by their peers, to
pursue and kill them.

A natural tendency leads us to think and feel that everything is good to be believed, spread and spread.
But believing is not understood or felt: everything can be believed, from the absurd to the incomprehensible,
which is why there are so many religions in the human spirit winds in the atmosphere, but not
everything can be understood and felt by all. A big idea can not fit into a narrow-minded,
not a generous sentiment rooted in a wretched soul. For this credulity is not a substitute
for the intelligentsia. The believer of a religion can believe it all whole, but only you can understand
the share of their mind, and it alone shall be substantial component
of his spirit, and will result in their actions else being as simple
tenant verbal, spoken word, but unworkable.

* * *

If you believe a doctrine were sufficient to acquire a superior intellectual and moral superior,
there would be no possible explanation for the 1,800 years of Christian barbarism that have run
in parallel the Sermon on the Mount.

"Behind the cross is the devil," says the proverb under heaven is hell. The Christian clergyman,
born in barbarous times, with eternal punishment and such sentences,
and for this diabolical and divine at the same time, half savage and
half sublime, is directly comparable up to the wild in what is a savage,
but in it that is just sublime high spirits, or exceptionally good
temperaments, which appear even among the completely barbarous.

This explains why all inflaming religious was always accompanied by
an upsurge correlative of barbarism, as in Scotland Knox Calvin in
Switzerland or Spain's Torquemada.

The development of the human spirit in its various phases, during the Greco-Roman civilization
could be figured by a zigzag upward, ending at the end of empire, eclipsing to disappear completely in a
form of moralism that meant to dispense with all forms of mental activity which had thrived
under paganism and led to the re-flowering side of primitive superstitions,
relegated by them to the second plan, but not extinct.

Is what would happen today if schools were closed and destroyed the books, suppressed banned the press
and modern forms of thought. Earlier forms provided underlying take the place vacant, rising
to the first plan, the casters, the relics and the images again to evict miracle doctors, theologians
to lawyers; the whip to teaching methods, and the letter, again converted
into vehicle absurd sacred blood re-enter by the back sides of recalcitrant
pupil.

Ruled disinterest safety or hope of reward to virtue, salvation from evil and death through ceremonies,
rituals and magic words, the largest of wonders was not feasible then than it is today, educated
or trained minds reasoning, and was more viable so that now the spirits naive acclimated causation
mysterious stream. Repudiated by them was accepted by them, together with the vegetation of superstitions
Asian, African and European, which may travel pot in the underworld of the Roman Empire, and
were also accepted in part and repudiated the rest, just as we have today supported superstitions,
superstitions tolerated and superstitions banned by the state.

Would not be feasible in such an environment without assimilating any part thereof to serve as bridge between
the old and new, that's how much of the evil deities of antiquity, which had transferred the wild
terror of the unknown - making the race of oysters, which began to be humble dish to finish the
disinherited in prized delicacy of the wealthy - have become the
pillars on which rests teachers the power of the Church of the privileged
classes and the ruling families.

Built poverty of spirit in Christian virtue, being the most favorable condition to admission and retention
of the most wonderful human conception, the descent of spirit critical, so disqualified, was
the immediate result, but not enough in the beginning. Natural credulity enough to accept
a closed bundle beliefs of our ancestors, when you have none, and is the biggest obstacle to
abandon them when it does. The new religious truth, therefore, had to take the place of it
by the door wide superstitions, putting guards there to theology, to prevent access to new arrivant
of the same or another strain, and it was the goalkeeper threw him
all away.

The criterion of supernatural truth was, then as now, the fact supernatural miracle, that is, the
absurdity met - in theology, and in theosophy, in spiritualism, healing or "christian science".
The Christian miracle was performed against the devil and pagan gods was supposed to be their representatives,
then the first thing was ratified by the miracle the pre-existence of the devil, because without
it lacked what reason. Miracles good miracles involving bad, and the effectiveness of a remedy
confirms the existence of relevant disease, and the Christian devil, who was the personification summary
of all evil powers of all gods barbarians barbaric past of humanity, coupled from the first
moment to the Sermon on the Mount, could cause more than ten centuries of barbarism effectively
in parallel with the highest moral theory, and the heels of the highest
civilization of classical antiquity.

Indeed, in the seventh century, which marks the "Nadir" the human spirit, begins the preponderance
ancestral forms resurgent after the disappearance of the philosopher, and the dark barbarizant
infernal wave that starts from the spiritual abyss, obscures the Middle Ages destroying lives and
property, and delaying for centuries the development of positive science and humanitarian sentiments,
because it is the economic basis of the power hierarchy Church, which is what is the secret
of its periodic exaggerations and duration. Until well ahead of the eighteenth century, women
perished by hanging or burning at tens of thousands in the single line of witchcraft, as men
for heresy, inhumanities from religious morality, and did not give
up until the advent of human morality.

* * *

The fight for life raises in each species the conditions for quality particular, real or imaginary.
It is at least doubtful that the condition of scared of hell and haunted by demons, has earned
to fend of evil men as they have been worse at times when that has prevailed more strongly, and still
are in the regions and social strata that is more widespread. This condition involves modes specific
thinking, feeling and acting, variables with intensity and personal temperament, from the charity
to the poor through construction of temples, from simple devotion
preservative to mysticism and madness tracker, which transformed his
delirium exacerbated persecution.

In the first form, "the holy terror of hell" covered with churches, convents and shrines Asia Minor, Egypt
and Europe, in the second, led to the Crusades and orders religious chivalry, spawned the Inquisition
and the Jesuits, in short, raised Inter-Christian wars, in which the pursued by the demons, chasing to
kill for their faith in different condoms, marking the moment when
the religious idiocy climaxes in Christianity: because it has been
reduced to a minimum and diabolism has reached the maximum.

"How bad we are when we are afraid!" Says Anatole France, and indeed, the same animals home,
scared, ipso facto lose his meekness, and become even more dangerous than in the wild. The
danger, scaring the timid, makes them dangerous, with ruthless and ferocious to the humble,
when men are more gallant, aristocratic angered by fear, are also a serious danger of reciprocity,
even for women as in the Bazar de Charité, rue Jean Goujon, Paris. Theological Dangers panic engendered
religious ease panic and the inclination to frighten, exploited in the political field, produced by
the political danger of political terror in vicious circle and so came in Christian societies
reversion to the methods of companies wild.

Large catastrophes crazy shot in theaters, churches, shipwrecks, are cases of sudden and devastating
ferocity caused by the panic that comes from also probably most of the killings. The heads of
the "Mashorca" which was shaking the residents of Buenos Aires, were timid fear that were beheaded
cutthroats. In Uruguay, where the Jordanian war, a Basque brick, which in life had slaughtered
a lamb, haunted by frequent beheadings, volunteered to Cutthroat informal, and the first candidate
who had given him, naked and bound hand and foot on the ground, Chambonea so that the victim
in retaliation, he broke the ropes feet that held him, he joined dripping blood, slain by halves,
and undertaking to kicking the hangman's apprentice, rebuked him: "If you can not slay what you
get, Basque of so and so! "