 

By virtue of their ancient superstitions, since these natives out of any saved danger, thrown
to the ground an ear of corn, to give thanks to Providence if any favored with your protection.

SAN-RAMON.

The
mission of this name was founded in 1792 by order of Governor Zamora,
with the surplus Itonama the population of Santa-Maria-Magdalena:
the village, built in imitation of the missions of the Jesuits, without
ornaments, occupies a delightful position, stretching out on a solid
ground, filled with hydrate of iron, and high enough to be always
covered against Machupo River floods, which passes not far from there.

Nearby are some banana plantations, while other parts are grown somewhat
distant, above all, belonging to the Indians, who were coming to the
river rather ITENE.

Industry of this population does not differ at all from Magdalena.

A distance of half a league from the village is a beautiful lake is another of the same nature
two leagues: both have an oblong shape and a diameter more hugs as a league. The fish to be
drawn from them is very exquisite, but the crowd of alligators no longer a great hindrance
to fishing. These ferocious amphibians are also common in the Rio Machupo, but the way of hunting
them is different than we've seen used by Canichana of Mission San-Pedro. The inhabitants of San-Ramon
tie a dog to the river bank, placing before him an open loop, so
the alligator can not get near him without in it, arranged so the
armadijo, hidden a few steps, holding in his hand the other end of
the loop.

A howling dog is soon to appear some caiman, showing first on the water outgoing orbits of his
eyes and the extremity of the muzzle remains certainly some moments in observation, and staring
at its prey, then dives to reappear on the shore, where creeps slowly towards the poor dog
that magnetized by such terrible enemy, there is no movement, sometimes trembling, others in short,
makes the most violent efforts to break the ropes that sugetan, and escape to the grim mouth
opens to swallow. Fortunately, their fears are short [1], because Indians are quick to pull the
rope and dragged to the caiman, stunning tally of being sacked, and even tries to defend himself.
Because you can not turn around, acercánsele the Indians behind, and take away the life of
two or three axes. The regular size of these reptiles is five yards, but in general are provided
to the expanse and breadth of rivers where they dwell. Are never large alligators in the creeks, or
small in large rivers.

The population of San-Ramon, totally Itonama, was composed in 1804, four in 1200 five individuals
in 1808, four thousand fifty-five but a plague of smallpox came to destroy much of it dropping
to just 1984. The people is divided into nine installments as follows: Béchu, Gualano, gouache,
Iaca, Pacasnane, Muchusmo, Morochia, Guacleca and Yaracaca.

In 1830 there were there, eight thousand three hundred head of cattle and 1400 horses, property
of the state. Also collected in this mission, cacao, wax, the sassafras, cotton, and made
them tected in the other counties in the province. His productions gave the State in that year
of 1830, the amount of 1600 ninety-four pesos.

San-Ramon Road to Magdalena.

To go to San-Ramon Magdalena, count five leagues in the direct line towards the east; but as you
have to make many detours, this distance is increased by a third party. In the dry season pass the
extensive plains on horseback, stopping at different points have
been built cabins to house the travelers: they are also, in this way,
several farms established on the beautiful plains that separate the
river Machupo River Itonama.

If you have undertaken this journey, in that season, to lead goods, it is necessary to go on
board, and then the distance is doubled, it is necessary to lower Machupo river to its confluence
with the Itonama, and then climb up the Magdalena, drawing a sharp angle.

During the rainy season this road is abbreviated, canoe through the
flooded plains.

It then down the river about three leagues Machupo, to enter right into a stream, very uncomfortable
for navigation, being trimmed trees, among which is necessary break through with ax in hand
and fighting a very rapid current, but soon the waves are quiet, the creek widens, its steep banks
are cleared of trees, coming from last to form a gap of a quarter of a mile wide and a mile
long. Of elsewhere in this lake, the waters, which remain a moment stops, change direction;
so that instead of further upstream, we follow the natural course of the stream. It meanwhile
warned that the said lake, whose waves are directed from one side to the east, Huarichona toward
the river, and the other west, towards the river Machupo, represents the height separation of those
two areas, provision which is quite remarkable.

Moving path is still four miles down the same stream, first it is quite wide, and will then
tapering more and more, to be trimmed back Ramage, continuing and to go and meet with other arm.
This stream, which has the same name of the river Huarichona, is navigable only during the
rainy season, and empties into the river Itonama, ten leagues below point of reunion with the
new arm indicated, which is necessary to go as two leagues, continuing the journey to Magdalena.
The slopes of the second stream are also trimmed, such as the above, the tree as immediate
one another, difficulty that the boats make their way through the midst of them, especially, being
the water almost to the height of their canopies. Over this stream, it enters a floodplain,
browsing it as two leagues, in which transit is discovered near a forest huts stop the journey
by land. After leaving behind two boscages isolated escentos of flooding, is still rowing across
the plain in the east-southeast direction, until they reached a stream, called Chunanos, laying
low until the first crossroads, crossing two groves near which appears immersed in the water another
hut high for the season dry season. There then go up the other arm to lead again in the plain,
where the poor traveler has to spend a day, exposed to the heat of a scorching sun or to the raging
storms. The general flooding throughout this region the perfect level test of their land and the
total absence of highlights from the various currents: by everywhere but that is not water,
but it often happens that there is not enough to row, then being forced to drag the canoes.
These plains are covered in some Parages large herbs, whose plumes, which come out of the water,
supporting a platoon red formed by ants, which can not live sodre flooded land, are grouped thus,
to wait for two or three months the return of dry, but at the slightest shock such groups often
dispose, scattering ants, when not in water, in of the canoes, which is added to the other discomforts
of traveler sailor.

After the plain, down a stream until he reached the residence of Saint-Charles. Departing of this,
it continues to decrease by the same stream (whose banks are beginning to be covered from there almost
entirely flooded brush), before emptying into the river Itonama. To get Magdalena is necessary
to navigate in another five miles up this river, which lowers with some speed toward the northwest,
crossing a flood plain, bare of trees, to go and meet with the Machupo.

San-Ramon Road to San-Joaquin.

This land transit is eight leagues to the north, and twelve going down the river Machupo whose
flow, tortuous and very deep on all sides, is adorned with beautiful boscages: This river is in considerable
crowd of dolphins. In the dry season through horseback the plain without any difficulty taking
the left bank of river.

SAN-JOAQUIN.

This mission was founded by the Jesuits at the White River and at a distance far removed site it
occupies, in a later period to 1700. In March 1796, under the pretext Baures the Indians,
who composed its population under the scheme administrators, were continually persecuted and
robbed by the Savages, was transferred to where found, ie on a small
platform surrounded by marshes and situated on the banks left a quarter
of a mile of Machupo.

The temporary buildings of the village, which is up by a causeway,
are of simple construction and a single floor.

Otherwise, nothing remarkably this mission, whose industry is not unlike the other missions. Point
San-Joaquin occupied is covered with mineral hydrated iron nuggets. Cultivated fields for the government,
and are a league of people inside a forest embrace a large space of ground where plants grow full
of vigor: banana, candy cane, cocoa, cassava and maize production
are excellent.

Half a league distant the mission is a beautiful lake that is never
dry.

It is also to the northeast, After crossing a swamp than a league wide, dry ground, very remarkable
for the large amount of hydrated iron nuggets that cover the ground and which could make a fat
profit to the establishment of Catalan forges forges or high, forest is populated all its contours.
It is very strange that the Jesuits, so very industrious, have not benefited from these mineral
riches which would have doubled its resources, and since a large drive to the advancement of
those regions. These horizontal layers and to discovered, studying two leagues, always surrounded
by woods, as if nature purpose had been placed next to mine, the means to practice their tillage.

The
vegetation in the vicinity of San Joaquin is wonderful. Are trees in forests and a huge but varied
foliage: distínguense there among the palm fronds and other plants known, some beautiful palms, called
Rosary [1], to serve their coconuts to make accounts rosaries. This palm, whose trunk is smooth and
crowned with large law leaves gracefully arched, is without question one of the most elegant.
The ground is covered everywhere of magnificent ferns, while the branches of the trees hold the stems
grown in a kind of Palma christi, whose fruit is ten times higher than the ordinary kind. Nótanse
also on the edge of the woods two other species of palms, the very high and holds its leaves
in a single line divided to the two sides of the trunk, forming a beautiful green range [2]
and the other thorny [3] leaves similar, though smaller, to the Royal Palm Chiquitos. Something
closer to the mission, a wild fruit is grown the shape of a pear, which only eat when you're black
of ripe, they taste like the loquat, and their seeds are very analogous to those of the pear.

;

The San-Joaquin population in 1823 was composed of seven hundred sixty-six Baures Indians; but the
devastation caused in 1832 by the smallpox and Sarapion, the reduced number of six hundred and ninety
souls. The village consists of five installments, known under the names of Paschiono, Caparebocono,
Tacarano, Abeabano and stumps.

The cattle of the state property amounted in 1830 to three thousand eight hundred and eight
heads, and the horse to three hundred thirty-five. In that year the product of the mission was
six hundred seventy dollars.

San-Joaquin roads to Exaltation.

To go to San-Joaquin San-Pedro, it follows (as stated in speaking of this mission) during Machupo
River through San-Ramon.

To go in the rainy season to Exaltation, which is twenty-seven miles
in a straight line towards the west, it is necessary to cross a plain
canoe cross in all directions for several streams that are routed,
one at River Machupo others to the Mamore.

In dry times it has been traveling the same path to the magnificent horse plains, but for the
conveyance of goods there is no other vehicle than the rivers, and path then extends one hundred
and twenty leagues. They got the first thirty Machupo River to its confluence with the item or
Guaporé; next forty east to its junction with the Mamore, which is
necessary to rise, following his lengthy detours by space of fifty
leagues, to get to Exaltation.

To learn more about these vehicles transport, which are both the most beautiful rapids of
the province, I will describe detail.

San-Joaquin leaving you sail for two days by the Machupo, descending
towards the north-northeast.

The banks of this river are trimmed with very dense forest, which reveal the effect of a active
vegetation. Savage appearance, but varied in these solitudes, not without a certain greatness.
On one side, dark green tint of the forests, the windings multiplied the river, the troops of
monkeys, the many dolphins that travel to two canoes, and the other the multitude of coastal
and terrestrial birds, encourage landscaping making it more interesting. The river, whose width is
one hundred yards, received tributes from a number of creeks help drain the flood plain. At
noon the second day passed by a site where both sides are covered with plantations grown and
belonging to the Indians San-Ramon and San-Joaquin. Machupo along the banks of the river are
quite high over a long space of course, a fact which should encourage the cultivation of its
banks, being therefore strange that is not thought to put less distance missions. A little more
than two in the afternoon, the confluence of the river has Itonama, under whose name continues running
to meet the Machupo Guaporé or ITENE.

Then we discover towards the north above the trees, the western prolongation of the Sierra's Diamond.
From this starting point to show thousands of dolphins playing on the airwaves, and transit Some
leagues, are three beautiful species of palms, which are not found anywhere else Part [1]. At
about five river flows into the Iten, whose confluence would have been very desirable to establish
a population, given the great elevation of the left bank of Itonama, but certainly not this
have given rise to endless discussions between Spanish and Portuguese, on the limits of their
respective possessions, and is already referred to, eager the latter to retain its monopoly of
the navigation of these rivers, the Jesuits espulsaron trying to settle on its banks [2].

Items which the river is a quarter of a mile wide at this point, and its majestic waters fairly
quickly by running between the islands of the most picturesque appearance. On one of his banks,
filled with trees, is a Brazilian place: to go to him, it is necessary to fight upstream from
the rivers Itenes é Itonama, we hit form a barrier force movable, an imposing appearance. The post
is occupied even a sergeant and four soldiers, they have orders not to let any vessel without
the consent of the commander the fort of Beira, which is located two miles below. It is therefore
essential writing advance to the trustee at the request of a pass in front of the fort. Although
the left bank owned any property to the Republic of Bolivia, the Brazilian are considered the
absolute masters of the whole river course. The soldiers guarding the post, They are just clothes,
and live in abject poverty, a handful of farinha pao is the ration given daily for their maintenance,
and every eight days, get some powder cartridges that hunt elk and other wild animals whose meat they
also serve food.

Fort Prince of Beira.

When you have achieved the specified permission, or descends Guaporé Iten, admiring the picturesque
in its margins, and the mountains that dominate its left bank. Two leagues, little more or less,
presents a strong Prince of Beira on which the flag flutters Brazil. This strong, square and surrounded
by moats, it is also a bastion at each flank. Carboniferous sandstone, consisting of the adjacent
mountains, is the material used in its construction, which has been well executed by a European engineer.
His garrison, now reduced to thirty men. It was this strong in its foundation, a prison for
murderers, but today is intended to serve as the condemned political exile, who are deprived
of all kinds of resources in this secluded place where they have yet some ease.

The little town of Santa Rosa, under the strong, and half a league originally was far towards
the west, is placed at this háacia the north and to less distance, being composed single row of
houses, whose inhabitants are all black and mulatto, amounted to
number four.

Dealing with this population to traffic with checkpoints, rising
from Para, on the Madeira River and then by the Guaporé, to Mato Grosso.

These large boats, awnings and flat bottom are the size of a sloop of twenty to thirty tons;
and though in proportion to the depth of the river may have more capacity, no number jumps of
the Madeira River (which are presented whenever sailors forced to withdraw to water to carry
their boats overland with the help of round logs, placed by way of wheels) makes its size is decreased.
Otherwise this is the only difficulty that provides the navigation of this river, which is enough
depth everywhere to serve as a vehicle for steamboats of the largest dimension.

Para Starting up the booths to sail or paddle to the mouth of the Madeira River, then to paddle only
to stumble at the first rapids, which is necessary to save the So I have said, renewing operation
more than twenty times, and in which much is lost time [1].

Having saved the last cachuela you paddle with great work to the confluence of Itenes and Mamore
rivers, and from this point, the fort of Beira, where the food makers to go up at once to Mato Grosso.
Be necessary to use a full year in the first leg and return of these expeditions, it is preferred
by ground lead directly Rio Janeiro Santos or value of merchandises, and although the distance
is traveled by mule is eight hundred leagues, while the economy continues to be considerable,
so that the booths, being reserved solely for the purpose of transporting a lot of volume or weight,
no are but three or four expeditions per year from Pará to Mato Grosso.

Around the fort of Prince of Beira forest villages are spacious, where palm trees stand out:
the hills immediately, placed in an amphitheater, is gradually rise towards the north, coming to be
quite far from its peak. The ground remains entirely composed of sandstone, is barren, and
only some pieces adjacent to the river bank Itenes lend to agriculture
and produce very good results.

On leaving the fort of Beira, the river Itenes or Guaporé [1] is about half a league wide; clear
water, but black sheen, are slowly down through forests and magnificent an savage aspect rather than
picturesque. The nature in this place is too big and majestic for them to understand the details.
Meanwhile, very rarely be disturbed any traveler this beautiful loneliness that holds no more
ornaments than the rich vegetation of dark forests, because even the birds cross only by chance
and without ever stopping. No However, the uniformity of landscaping is occasionally interrupted
by some garrisoned islands trees, and blue mountains on the right bank, highlighting the distance
on dark green background of lush forests.

After having gone a long journey, rowing with all the speed of the current, halts at dusk,
or on the right bank where there is a very dense forest where the ground should be excellent
for farming, or on the left is filled with magnificent forests. The Brazilians attacked the fort
are often very often these Parages by Indians Itenes inhabiting both shores, and exploit every
opportunity to strive for violence, weapons and iron that they are absolutely necessary from
the time of contact with the Spanish and Portuguese.

These savages, an independent and proud, have retained their entire freedom, preferring to be
decimated every day from over a century, rather than submit to the religious zeal of the Jesuits
or the yoke of the Spanish. Today are still what they were in the time of discovery, and its conservation
should independence to the close union that seems to reign among them.

This nation occupies all the angle formed by the confluence of the rivers Itenes and Mamore.
The tribes who live scattered component within a desert surrounded by huge impenetrable swamps and jungles.
These Indians, whose customs are extremely unique, just ignore the middle civilization around
them, so clever and covertly slip their canoes in small tributaries
of the Mamore and Iten, where the Indians lurk mission or the soldiers
of Fort Brazilian Beira, attacking the neglect, many times for the
shadows of the night, another attempt to procure the few tools.

On the second day, you see the river as wide and beautiful as the day before, but much more tortuous
and almost entirely rid of islets is seen among both trimmed its left bank palm palm fronds,
whereas on the right comes from too many trees varied, a new species of palms, known as the
Indian chuco and most remarkable for its leaves, whose figure is equal to that of a sun, it
is composed of numerous leaflets it like a lightning start from a central point to which they are
sugetas [1].

Upon arriving at the angle formed by the reunion of the Mamore Itenes, a spectacle more impressive
is presented to the eye, which embrace one stroke both the majestic
swing currents can easily compare and admire the wonderful contrast
[1].

The river Iten, which, as already stated, receives all the waters of the province of Mato Grosso and
northern and north-west of Chiquitos, and whose tax, dropping from some high hills, are gently
by a vast area of ??plains, which have strong embankments, it retains its waves almost always
pure and never carries plant offal; to step the Mamore, not only remains murky and muddy throughout
the year, but carries bubbling trunks, leaves, roots, and sometimes
whole trees, therefore, to have more of their resources on the high
cerranías provinces of Cochabamba, Mizque and Valle Grande, or on
the north side of the last slopes of the mountain, all its tributaries
are formed and cross the raging torrents plain with such rapidity
that start passing along the banks of one of its edges.
