 Legislative power cantonal
resides in a grand council, composed of 195 members popularly elected by the circles, which
meets in Lausanne twice a year in ordinary sessions without the right remuneration. The credentials
of representatives last four years. The Great Council appointed Members of the Houses of the
Confederation and senior officials, among them the 9 Members of the Council of State, which
exercises executive power for six years. These 9 directors must leave within the Grand Council,
and they appoint annually from among themselves the president or head of government. The court
order is under the jurisdiction of the legislature. The State attends to all your needs with an annual
budget of about 550.000 pesos.

In Vaud are abolished in recent years the death penalty, forced labor in prison, public embarrassment
and confiscation. The prison system is entirely analogous to Geneva and the beautiful Losana Panopticon
is the first to be founded in Europe. The vaudenses and other Residents enjoy the full freedom
of religion, advertising, instruction, locomotion association, etc. Except for the roads and free
public education that the State holds, the manifestations of social activity belong to the
private sector. Is so great was the interest that there is progress in public education almost
there is a city that has its well-stocked library, museum and many colleges and libraries important.
There are about 800 state elementary schools, 10 community colleges and 22 schools secondary, some
classical and other polytechnics. There is viewed with particular attention science economic, and
not many months [16] that met Lausanne congress and a competition economist to combine the best
European tax system. It's very small minority in the State of individuals without any instruction.

[16]
in 1861.

       * * * * *

Vaud localities we play, three of us and drew particular attention
unto them reduce some quick observations.

Vevey, which disembarked to cross the Leman from Boveret, is a city so funny its structure, its
admirable situation and beautiful scenery nearby, and interesting by social movement. Starting from
the bank of the lake, whose waves bathes small springs, elegant villas, terraces and gardens
and walls of many of their homes, first extends on a plain low extension and then climbs amid
vineyards and orchards to the hill that dominates, which serves as a seat at the Cathedral Saint-Quentin
and various works of an ancient castle, limited by a large terrace
shaded leafy elm and chestnut trees