 His first pictures were gathered at the crowd curious. Desnoyers
watched him carefully: "It looks like a good person." His instincts order man felt flattered
by the grave and serene air of General of the Republic. Suddenly experienced a great trust, similar
to the one that inspired managers Bank of good looks. This man he could trust interests, without
fear hiciese crazy.

The avalanche of enthusiasm and excitement to finally drag Desnoyers. Like all those who around
him, lived minutes were hours and hours that seemed years. The events are trampling; the world seemed
to recover within a week of long quiescence of peace.

The old man lived on the street, attracted by the spectacle of the
crowd waving civil to the other uniformed crowd leaving for the war.

Evening on the boulevards witnessed the passage of the demonstrations. The tricolor flag colors fluttered
under the electric lights. The cafes, overflowing audience, throwing swollen mouths by their doors
and windows the musical roar of patriotic songs. Suddenly he opened the crowd in the middle of the street
to applause and cheers. All Europe went there, all over Europe - except the two empires enemies
- spontaneously greeted with cheers to France in danger. Iban parading the flags of the various
peoples with all Iris inks, and behind them the Russians, with clear eyes and mystics, the
English, with bareheaded, singing religious songs of gravity, the Greeks and Romanians, aquiline
profile, the Scandinavians, white and red, the North Americans, with the noise a little childish enthusiasm,
the Jews without a homeland, friends of the country of revolutions equal; Italians, arrogant,
like a chorus of tenors heroic Spanish and South American tireless in their cheers. Were students
and workers who honed their skills in schools and workshops, refugees had taken to the hospital
in Paris as beach Shipwrecked Members of wars and revolutions. Her cries had no official significance.
All these men moved with spontaneous impulse, anxious to show their love to the Republic.
Y Desnoyers, moved by the sight, thought that France was still something in the world, still
exerted a moral force on people, and their joys or misfortunes interested to humanity.

"In Berlin and Vienna - he said - also cheers at this time ... But the country no more. Surely,
no stranger ostensibly to join their protests. "

The people of the Revolution legislator on the Rights of Man collected the gratitude of crowds.
He began to feel some remorse at the enthusiasm of foreign who offered their blood to France.
Many complained that the government twenty slowing voluntary admission days, until they had completed
mobilization operations. And he, who was born French, doubted hours
before your country!

...

By day, the mainstream led him to the Gare de l'Est. A mass of people thronged against the fence,
spilling into the streets near tentacles. The station, which was acquiring the importance
of a historic place, like a narrow tunnel through which tried sliding around a river, with great
shock and kindled against the walls.

Part of France in arms throwing this out from Paris to the battlefields of border.

Desnoyers had only been there twice, to the leg and the return of his trip to Germany. Other now
undertook the same way. The popular masses were coming from all ends City to see how they disappeared
inside the human mass contours station geometric, uniformly dressed, with rhythmical flashes
of steel and accompanying metal shock. The glass half points, shining in the sun like mouths igneous
people drink and drink. In the evening went on the parade by the light of electric bulbs. Through
the gates spent thousands and thousands of horses, men with iron-lined chest helmet hair and earrings,
as well as the champions of remote centuries enormous boxes cage that served as the condors to
aeronautics; beads long, narrow canyons, painted gray, protected by steel bulkheads, more similar
to astronomical instruments that drains to death, masses and masses of red kepis moving with
the pace of progress, and rows of rifles, a black and bare, dismal form reeds, others topped
with spikes appeared bright bayonets. And on these restless fields of grain steel the flags
of the regiment quivered in the air like colored birds: body white, blue wing, the other red,
a gold tie at the neck and above the peak bronze, iron spear pointed to the clouds.

Of those dismissed Don Marcelo returned home to vibrant and tired nerves as which has just witnessed
a spectacle of rough emotion. Despite his tenacious character, that always refused to acknowledge
the error itself, the old man began to feel ashamed of their previous questions. The nation
lived, France was a great people; appearances had deceived him as to many others. Perhaps most of
his countrymen were of an ease and forgetful delivered in excess to sensuous life, but when came
the hour of danger, simply did their duty, without needing the last taxation suffered by people
under railways to organizations.

On the morning of the fourth day of action, while leaving his home instead of moving the went
downtown with opposite direction, toward the rue de la Pompe. Some imprudent words Chichi and the restless
eyes of his wife and his sister made him suspect that in July had returned from his trip.
Felt the need to see from afar the windows of the study and if this could provide news. And
to justify to their own conscience exploration in contrast to their intention to oblivion, he remembered
that his carpenter residing at street.

- Come to see Robert. A week ago I promised to come.

This Robert was a tall boy who had "freed from the tyranny outs', in his own words, working
alone at home. A piece about underground room and served as workshop. The companion, which he
called "my partner" ran with the care of his person and home, while a child grew hung on to her
skirts. Consented to Robert Desnoyers their declamations against the bourgeoisie, because they
paid to every whim of incessant furniture arranger. In the luxury housing of the Avenue Victor
Hugo, the carpenter singing International moving while the saw or hammer. This and great boldness
of Mr forgave language, considering the cheapness of their labor.

Upon arrival at the small shop she saw him with his cap over one ear, baggy corduroy to the Mamluk,
spiked boots and several tricolor flags and ribbons on the lapels
jacket.

- You're late, boss - said cheerfully -.

Will close the factory. The owner has been mobilized and within a few hours will join his regiment.

He pointed to a paper written fixed on the door of his hovel, like posters print contained in all establishments
in Paris to show that employers and dependents had obeyed the order
of mobilization.

It had never occurred to her carpenter Desnoyers could become a soldier. Was rebellious to any imposition
of authority. I hated the flics, police in Paris, with he had changed his fists and sticks at
all turns. Militarism was his concern. At rallies against the tyranny
of the barracks had figured as one of the demonstrators noisy.

And this revolution was going to war with the best intentions, without any effort? ...

Roberto spoke enthusiastically of the regiment, of life among comrades, taking the death to
four steps.

- I believe in my ideas as before, pattern - continued, as if guessing what I thought the other
- but war is war, and teaches many things, among them that freedom
must be accompanied by order and command.

Someone needs to lead and others follow, voluntarily, by consent ... but still. When war comes
you see things differently than when you're at home doing what he wants.

The night I killed Jaures roared with anger, saying the next morning would revenge. He had looked
to their partners of their section to find out what they planned
against the bourgeoisie.

But the war was about to explode. Something in the air that is opposed to civil strife that
left in momentary oblivion particular grievances, concentrating all souls in a common aspiration.

-
A week ago - continued - it was anti-militarist. How far it seems to me that! As if one year ... I still
think as before: I love peace, hate war, and like me, all comrades. But the French have not led
to anyone and threaten us, they want to enslave us ... Let wild beasts, and that force us to be,
and to defend well, nobody out of line, that everyone obeys. The discipline is not incompatible
with the revolution.

Remember hosts of the first republic, all citizens, like the generals that soldiers, but Hoche,
Kleber and others were rude compadres who could send and impose obedience.

The

carpenter had his letters.

In addition to newspapers and pamphlets of "the idea" had read in
books loose to Michelet and other artists in history.

- Let us make
war on war - he said -.

We will beat for this war is the latest.

His statement did not seem quite clear, and continued:

- We will beat about the future, we will die so that our grandchildren will not know these calamities.
If the enemy triumphed triumph continued war and conquest as the only means of aggrandizement.
Would take over Europe first, then the rest of the world. The stripped would rise further: new
wars! ... We do not want conquests. We recover Alsace and Lorraine because they were ours
and its people want to come with us ... And nothing else. Do not imitate the enemy appropriating territory
and threatening the peace of the world. Napoleon had enough: we must not repeat the adventure.
Let to beat us by our security while the security of the world, life
of weak nations.

If it was a war of aggression, vanity, conquest, we would agree of our anti-militarism. But
the defense, and the rulers are not to blame. We attacked and we should all go together.

The carpenter, who was anticlerical, showed a generous tolerance,
an open mind comprising all men.

The day before had found the mayor of his district to a reservist who was going to go with
him joining the same regiment.

A glance had enough to admit it was a priest.

- I am a carpenter - had told him appearing -. And you, mate ... working in churches?

Used this euphemism for the priest could not suspect him foul intentions.

The two had shaken hands.

- I'm not the Calotte - continued, turning to Desnoyers -. Some time ago I started wrong with
God.

But everywhere there are good people and good people must be understood at this time. Did not
think so, boss?

The war flattered his hobbies egalitarian. Before her, speaking of the coming revolution was
a wicked pleasure imagining all the rich, who lose their fortune,
they would to work to survive.

Now I was excited to participate in all French the same fate, regardless of class.

- All backpacks and eating ranch. And he extended the military gravitas for who remained behind
the army. The war would bring great Shortages: everyone would meet ordinary bread.

- And you, master, that is old to go to war, have to eat like me, with all million ... Recognize that
this is beautiful.

Desnoyers was not offended by the malicious satisfaction that inspired the carpenter future deprivation.
I was thinking. A man like that, an opponent of all existing and material had nothing to defend,
going to war, to death, by a generous ideal and far, to avoid that humanity knew the horrors of
the future today. When you This did not hesitate to sacrifice their ancient faith, all beliefs
cherished until the day before ... And he was one of the privileged
of luck, which had deprived many tempting things defense, given to
doubt and criticism!

...

Hours later he returned to find the carpenter near the Arc de Triomphe. Group was Several workers
look like him, and this group was linked to others and others who were as a representation of all social
classes: well-dressed bourgeois, fine gentlemen and anemic, discharged tuxedo worn, pale face
and thick glasses, smiling young priests with some malice, as if engaged in a skull. In front
of the human herd was a sergeant and several soldiers in the rear with a rifle on his shoulder.
Reservists Come! ...

And a musical roar, a chant serious, menacing and monotonous emerged from this mass of mouths
round pendulum arms and legs that opened and closed as well as bars.

Roberto energetically sang the chorus warrior. Shaking eyes and drooping mustaches of France.
Despite his corduroy suit and canvas bag packed, had the same look great and heroic figures of
Rude in the Arc de Triomphe. The "associated" and the boy trotted by immediately to accompany
the sidewalk to the station. Eyes from them to talk row with a partner, shaved and looking serious:
surely the priest who had known the day before. Tuteaban Maybe now, with the fraternity that
inspired men to contact death.

Followed the millionaire with a look of respect to his carpenter, disproportionately enlarged to be
part of this human avalanche. And his respect was something of envy: envy awareness arising from
unsafe.

When Don Marcelo spent sleepless nights, nightmares, a source of terror, always the same, haunted
his imagination. Rarely dreamed of mortal danger to him or his. The vision was always fearful
that he had to collect documents credit agreements concluded with his signature, and he, Marcelo
Desnoyers, man faithful to their commitments, with a past of spotless integrity, could not afford.
The possibility of this made him shaking, and after waking her chest still felt oppressed by
terror. For your imagination, this was the greatest disgrace that a man can suffer.

To upset their lives with the turmoil of war, reappeared the same anxieties. Wide awake, in the
use of reason, suffered a punishment equal to that experienced seeing his name in his sleep without
honor at the foot of a bad document.

All the past came before him with extraordinary clarity, as if even then had remained blurred,
in a confusion of darkness. The land of France was threatened yours. Fifteen centuries of history
had worked for him, he found the open progress and amenities eyes that know not their ancestors.
Many generations of Desnoyers had prepared his coming to life struggling
with the land, defending it from enemies giving birth a family and
a home free ... And when it came his turn to continue this effort,
when he reached the turn in the chain of generations, fled the same
as a debtor avoids payment!

... Had contracted by coming into the world's land commitments their
parents with the human group which had existence.

This requirement was necessary to pay with their arms, refusing to
sacrifice danger ... He had eluded recognition of signature, absconding
and betrayed its ancestors.

Ah, you bastard! Never mind material success of their existence, the wealth acquired in a
remote country. There are faults not cleared with millions. The restlessness of his conscience
was proof. So were envy and respect he felt for that poor workman going to meet the death to other
beings equally humble, impassioned all for the satisfaction of having met, the sacrifice accepted.

The
memory of Madariaga came to his memory.

"Where we are rich and have a family, there is our homeland."

No, not true to say the centaur. In normal times, perhaps. Far from home of origin and when it does
not run any danger, you may forget a few years. But He now lived in France, and France had to
defend itself from enemies who wanted to suppress. The performance of all its inhabitants, rising
to Desnoyers mass represented a shameful torture. At all hours contemplating what he should have
done in his youth and would not do.

70 veterans were on the streets on the tab displaying the green and
black tape, I remember deprivation of the siege of Paris and the heroic
and ill-fated campaign.

Given these satisfied men of his past made him turn pale. No one remembered their own, but he knew
him, and it was enough. Vainly tried to calm her right inside the storm ... Those had been other times:
there was no unanimity of the present time, the Empire was unpopular: everything was lost
... But the memory of a famous phrase was fixed in his memory as a obsession: "There remained France!"
Many thought the same as him in his youth, and yet had not fled to
avoid the service of arms had been trying to the last and desperate
resistance.

His arguments useless excuses.

The reasoning ignores the strong feelings as useless. To understand the political and religious ideals
are essential explanations and demonstrations: the feeling of the country does not need any of this. The
homeland ... is country. And the workers of the cities, incredulous and mocking, the selfish
laborer, the lonely shepherd, all move to spell this word, understanding it instantly, with
no previous teaching.

"We need to pay - he repeated mentally Don Marcelo -. I pay my debt. "

And felt, as in dreams, anguish and despair of the honest man you want meet their commitments.

Pay! ... How? It was late. For a moment he got the heroic resolution offered volunteer, to march
with the bag on the side in one of those groups of future fighters as well as his carpenter.
But the futility of sacrifice arose in his mind. What which could serve? ... Seemed strong, stayed
strong for his age, but it was beyond sixty years, and only young people can be good soldiers.
Does anyone fight. The mood was more than enough to take a rifle. But the fight is nothing
more than an accident struggle.

The heavy, shocked, and sacrifices are the operations that precede the match, endless marches, the
rigors of the temperature at night to ceiling, remove the earth, digging trenches, load trucks,
from hunger ... No, it was too late. Even had an illustrious name to slaughter could serve as an
example.

He instinctively looked back. He was not alone in the world, had a son who could answer the debt
of the father ... This hope lasted only a moment.

His son was not French: belonged to another people, half of his blood was from various sources.
Besides, how could feel the same concerns that he? Would I understand if your father exposed them?
... It was useless to expect anything from this graceful dancer wanted by the women of this Bravo
courage frivolous, who risked their lives in duels to satisfy a childish honor.

The modesty of Mr. Desnoyers rough after these reflections! ... His family felt awe to see the
shrink and the gentleness with which he moved into the house. The two servants imposing gesture
had gone to join their regiments, and the biggest surprise they reserved
the declaration of war was the sudden love goodness, the abundance
of gifts to his farewell paternal care in guarding their travel arrangements.

The dreaded Don Marcelo's embraced with moist eyes. The two had to struggle not to accompany them
to the station.

Outside his house slid with humility, as if mutely beg pardon to the people who around him.
All seemed superior to him. Were times of economic crisis: the rich momentarily knew poverty
and unrest, the banks had suspended operations and paid only a tiny
part of their deposits.

The millionaire was deprived for a few weeks of their wealth. And she was concerned to see
the future uncertain. How long would to elapse before you send money to America? Do not come
to abolish war fortunes as well as the lives? ... And yet, never
appreciated the less money Desnoyers or disposed of it with greater
generosity.

Many popular aspect mobilized loose marching to the stations
found to a man who stopped them shyly, he carried a hand to his pocket
and left in his right hand the twenty-franc note, fleeing immediately
to their astonished eyes. The workers returning to say tearful farewell
to his men saw the same man smiling little children marching beside
them, stroking his cheek and walk away, leaving in their hands five-franc
piece.

Don Marcelo, who had never smoked, attended the offices of
snuff. Leaving them with hands and pockets full, to overwhelm with
a bounty to the first packet soldier was