 Took leave of his friends, who had many very good; prometióles that would
be with them next summer, illness or death if not prevented, left with them half of his soul, all
your wishes delivered to those dry sand, which seemed to him more fresh and green Elysian fields.
And because they are already accustomed to walk on foot took the road in his hand, and reached
two sandals from Zahara to Valladolid, singing "Three ducks, mother." Dwelt there fifteen days to
amend the color of the face, extracting mulatto to flamenco, and trastejarse, and removed from
the draft and put into clean rogue knighthood. All this made as and gave comfort hundred that
came true Valladolid, yet reserved Dellos percent to hire a mule and a boy, in its submission
their parents honored and happy. They received him with great joy, and all his friends and relatives
came to give them the good wishes of good coming of Don Diego de Carriazo your child.

Among those who came to see the newcomer was Don Juan de Avendaño
and his son, Don Thomas, Carriazo whom, being both the same age and
neighbors, locked and confirmed a friend very close.

Carriazo told his parents, and everyone, great and Luengas thousand lies things that had happened
in the three years of absence, but never touched, nor think, in traps, since in them had to
start contino imagination, especially when he saw the time came where he had promised his
friends around. Nor amused hunting, his father occupied, or the many, honest and tasty treats
at that used gave city like means any hobby you tired, and all the more to be We placed the
offering he had received in the traps.

Avendaño his friend, seeing him often melancholy and imaginative, confident in their friendship,
dared to ask the cause, and was forced to address it, if I could
and it were necessary, with the blood itself.

Tenérsela Carriazo declined covert, not to injure the great friendship professed, and so, point
by point told seine life, and how all your sorrows and thoughts born of the desire I had to
return to it: pintósela so that Avendano soon as he had heard, before they praised his taste reviled.