 Today, there is more than a place of travel which begins to rise again amid rubble, thanks
to the interior and agriculture of the great advantages offered by
the navigation of Magdalena.

I have never seen a city that is as well represented as in Honda's life. It holds in the power
of an exuberant nature, splendid, a lively trade and death which appears to be nested in the
solitude of the ruins blackened by time. Fighting against each other endlessly, there is no doubt who
who will be playing to win as it is to the previous, protected by the freedom and industry,
as they are representatives of progress, which is the synthesis of
life!

Honda City is the restraint or center of two entirely different regions: Southern and Eastern
regions of the upper Magdalena admirable, towards the north, the endless wilderness, the burning
deserts and the recurrent likeness of the lower Magdalena. Top of the most splendid region of southern
Colombia is found a boundlessly varied landscape of plains, hills, jungles, mountains, endless
contrasts in shapes, colors and resources of nature. Continuous are all the succession of valleys,
lakes, luxurious mountains. These elements are enriched by an active population both large and
very civilized. Having an advanced agriculture, this brings brings together trade, livestock, arts
and mining industries. Within all of this gorgeous region of the burning paradise of New Granada,
is a civilization developing an an active social life.

Honda which is below, follows the course of the Magdalena, the scene changes dramatically. The
river better reveals the wildness of the surrounding region. It is more inactive and the further
along deep into the channel it splits into many directions which sometimes widens as small inland
sea waters that hides among the foliage of the forest secular. Standing in its way are a
cluster of picturesque islands and later becomes more unpleasant by the abundance of poisonous
insects and alligators. In Ardentia the beaches were consumed by the sun and the absolute solitude
of the beaches twists and turn. The marshes and wild ravines sadness,reveals that humanity had yet
to have the courage to go into battle with the Empress of Nature called deserts! I followed the
stream of Magdalena, this is the region where I had no other choice
but to cross and give my farewell to the homeland.*** ***The Champagne
turned around, the beach paddles stirred the beat of the wild cries
the stream, and few minutes later, to turn its course for between
monstrous banks of Magdalena, lost sight of the last tufts of coconut
trees that indicated the site of the winery.

Man disappeared to give the field exclusively to the vegetation. Always huge, wide at first, loved
everywhere, presenting the most beautiful high cliffs that overlooked
the shore, or in the luxurious halls of vegetables that came to extend
their floating lace parasitic vines on the beach itself, to where
it leaves to bake in ignited sand beds, the fearsome and monstrous
crocodile, the terror of the inhabitants wave.

       

Entire forests contain earthly cedar with its dark shadow covering
a slope failures disrupted by the upheavals of nature, and groups
of towering palms are pavilions where flocks of parrots swinging gorgeously;
and on the cliff of red clay layers composed of mixed layers, rises
a group of giant guaduas (bamboo), which for a thousand thin woven
covered Bejuquillo flowers flexibly cast their feathers on the waves
of the river, and open for fans the wind, where a fairy forest has
drawn on the most whimsical green background arabesques and mosaics.

Everywhere luxury and lush vegetation, rich contrasts and variety of forms and colors in nature exist,
with complete absence of population and culture. If one still notes
the inflections in the field, is because they have not yet completed the
ramifications that two main mountain ranges of the Andes - Central
and Eastern - throw on the Magdalena different directions.

After the hills disappeared, the forests became the horizon, and
eyes of the traveler became tired and sad now sees nothing but endless
desert.
