 

Professor of Psychology and Ethics Logic was the reverse of this: pedantic windbag without a trace
substance, obscene word and deed, and angry when he thought he denigrated. Did not reach at
thirty years old and had already made nine or ten chairs opposition to no avail one, only once
he had obtained a second. Outside the times when sitting in chair, not speaking of something else;
opposition from above and below, he knew the names of all professors in Spain, high school and
college, I knew how they had entered on the faculty (usually by intrigue according to him),
had an accurate count of all vacant chairs and even they were to vacate, which the opposition
played a turn or contest courts had been appointed from ten years to date, and calculated that they
could hereinafter named, and better yet who you should be named. Despite their pretensions, was
a journal that was left snuff gift, tie pins and even as it peseta by students. His name was
D. Benign, but they nicknamed him stressing Pppsicología p much as he used to do.

Professor of Physics and Natural History, Mr. Marroquín, was a former
Republican barricade, which had lost the auxiliary space at the Institute
of San Isidro for their ideas political and religious.

Throughout Spain there was no man more heterodox than himself did not believe in the mother
that bore him. D. Jaime, who was not intolerant, and the proof is holding him in his school,
had forbidden, however, to do show off their ideas, contrary to all positive religion, before
his disciples .-- "Friend Marroquín, no balzamina uzté zea in zu route; too eztamo enterao
of that Dio and holy are gun on his shoulder, but if Dad and Mom laz zuz children want to
believe it, what goes lez V. to do? Eye can, with the peak "Eztamo? Do not go to atufárseme
D. Juan (Don Juan was the priest), and have I a mess. "- By instinct conservation, rather
than later or never leaves even the enemies of God, sought Marroquín refrain, but with hard work
he succeeded. He found an ingenious way to express their grudge against the Supreme Being without
compromise, and was the omission: not by chance escaped him the name of God to replace his nature
always said, and when a boy was named, used to rectify smooth and slyly, saying: - "That is,
the forces of nature perfectly. "- was a man of tough, hairy like a boar (and he was called in
school), I went to the hair below the eyes, firm and bristling like spikes; the head were always loom
blurry scrambled by the absolute impossibility of tamed, and spent long to be best observed.
Then we shall say nothing of sows he went out of the hands and wrists, which could compete
very well with the brush rougher. When Marroquin wrote, one of the biggest jobs was to fight
with that hair of the wrist, maybe you erased the lines: I had no choice but to metérselos
each time the cuff of his shirt, but sometimes terribly impatient. These indecent hair! And angrily
tore a handful of them. "Long hair is in the soul and in the body, "he said of the chaplain of
the deaf school with anger. We are not satisfied with this trial. Marroquin was a poor devil,
not exempt from the passions that torment humans, such as envy, lust, gluttony, but not in
the highest degree most of them. However, much wandering austere man boast of a refiner, breaking
in the presence of the disciples recommendation cards and dealing with affected disdain the son
of a title, it was actually far from it, and so we have data incontrovertible.

Irreconcilable enemy of this was the chaplain D. Juan Vigil, spiritual director of students,
Christian doctrine teacher, and professor of Latin and rhetoric and poetics.