 Although a presumption on my part, I beg you let me go tuteándote when we're
alone ... I do not forget, I can not ever forget how many hours of happiness I owe, how much happiness
you have poured into my life dull and dreary. You have revealed me as sweet and intimate that
existed in my heart without me even suspected. For you have been the first stirrings of my
soul. Only you have penetrated so far into it, you've probed and know their blues, their weaknesses,
and tenderness. If I separate from you, if I say goodbye our love, do not think it's because
I no longer required: only obey a law of nature that drives us all to create a family. I have
no more than the world My mother, a poor old woman soon leave me alone ... You should not want
to seem wrong make a home and have an heir of my name and my title ... Moreover, the cry of conscience
chasing me ...

The Count, delighted with the improvement of the girl, showed more expansive and talkative than usual
could not hide the happiness that was upon him, thinking that everything was arranged as their
wishes. Josefina happy next to his mother beside him happy Fernanda; Amalia taxed resigned
and sweet and always love the purest daily.

It looked at him with mock curiosity. When he finished, he smiled benevolently:

- Especially since the night you saw that lovely Fernanda with low-cut
dress, that cry must have become unbearable.

The Count smiled, embarrassed.

- Do not believe it, Amalia, I've always felt remorseful. It is clear that to be an old one see
things more clearly. My beard and bleaching in several places, as you are watching. What a young
person can apologize as madness, as the hopelessness of the fire expansion runs through the
veins, called on an old crime. Love, at the age where I am, should not cover with their wings
in the light of reason, and if the lid deserve the label of a fool. My serna bitter resolution
may both. To me it is much, I can hardly let go of a passion that time force has almost become
a habit. There is also, by Unfortunately, a bond between the two
completely unbreakable.

Fate has given birth the mire of our sin a beautiful flower, a naive lily. Murdering his depart
Front: as it has been generated by an illegitimate love, not spotted with our behavior reprehensible.
Let us make ourselves worthy of it live as Christians.

- It is well that. I just feel that this course of Christian doctrine has been so late and
coincided with the arrival in this population of your old girlfriend. Because it looks and
if you had forgotten all about the catechism, and she came to refresh
your memory.

But in sum, I must not get involved because it does not concern me.
The result is that you marry.

Do well.

The only bad man, and when is a worthy companion, as you have found, no to miss the occasion.
Fernanda is a good girl, I'm sure that will make you happy.

You will have many children and, after a long and happy life, you will go to heaven.

Luis watched; that resignation and could not help but feel some concern.

- And you will be happy too? - Asked timidly.

- Me?

... What matters to me to be happy or unhappy! - Said, shrugging
his shoulders with a gesture dismissive.

- Do not say that, Amalia!

Happiness is not madness to give us seven years.

There was a bitter aftertaste that I perceived it long ago, and you
would soon perceive.

A pure and decent life, peace of conscience, the estimation of honest
people give you more happy that the guilty passion ... You also have
what I have no ... have by your side an angel, a sweet and fragrant
lily to embalm your existence.

- Ah, yes, Josefina!

... Indeed, it will provide to me the only good times we pass on.

He said a strange voice inflection, so sharp and shrill, that Louis felt a chill.

- What do you mean?

- What I have said, which fortunately I have a Josephine to recover.

- Is that what you say in a way so weird!

The Valencian chuckled unique out beyond the bottom of the throat
and sounded so sinister.

Luis stared at her, getting restless.

- But what a fool you, Luis!

But what retontísimo! Selfishness has such cataracts your eyes do not see or what you have ahead.
If you had twenty years, that innocence may might inspire pity your age does not inspire me more
than laughter and contempt. Think that four palabrillas insolent about morals and conscience
would be enough to force me to accept satisfied with the humiliation that I impose, I suppose,
if you do not know who you ought to know, I agree that I throw like a dirty rag, which I love
drag as a captive at the foot of Fernanda to serve you up a cushion
when your bed is the height of stupidity and bravado.

Why not also ask me to be your bridesmaid?

The count watched with eyes wide, expressing anxiety and fear.

-
So what I have said about the torture you happen to our daughter is
that true?

- And so accurate!

And still not know completely ... Look, I referírtelos everyone to not mislead you ...

And with word brief, incisive, with a cruel satisfaction that is reflected
by the voice, he front of the big picture of the miseries and horrible
pain that the unfortunate creature had suffered in recent months.

That painting was infinitely more terrifying than Mary had exhibited
the ironer.

The count, pale, haggard, without the slightest movement, it seemed the statue of despair. After
a while she covered her face with her hands and so listened to the
end.

- Oh, how vile!

Oh, how vile! - Murmured softly.

- Yes, very infamous, but still hope to be more.

Have you heard all these outrages?

Well, are nothing compared with that will.

- Not gonna make such a wicked child, - uttered Luis rising and rushing to her .-- Before you
drown in my hands.

The Valencian escaped out the door.

- If you take a step further, cry!

- Oh, infamous, infamous! - She cried a deep voice Count .-- And God
agrees on land these monsters!

He stepped back and fell back on the couch.

He rested his elbows on his knees and put his head in his hands.

After a long silence up, saying:

- Well, what do you demand of me?

Amalia took a step closer.

- What you need and expect, if you have a little common sense.

I do not demand that our relationships continue because the terms
we have reached is not possible: it would therefore and beg for your
love, and I have too much pride for that.

But neither you nor I want that woman laughing at you to stay me
not want to serve as mockery to those who know our relationships,
which are all frequented the house.

I demand, therefore, as a condition for the child re- to what it
was that break immediately with Fernanda and do not remember most
of it.

- But Amalia! - Cried with pain accent .-- Well you understand
that is impossible.

My wedding is concert; not already know all Lancia: Fernanda waiting
for me in Madrid, missing a few days ...

- Although it is one minute.

This wedding was not held. Fernanda If you marry, your daughter will pay the grievance in the
manner you know.

- Oh! I stop you. Give part to the authority.

I will ask for the deposit of the child.

- That's only talk, Luis
- replied calmly and smiling .-- Amalia authorities Lancia are making
of Quiñones.

No one will dare to declare a word against me.

- I refer particularly
D. Pedro.

- Do not believe, and if you believed, what would advance?

Instead of stopping my revenge, as yours too, help me.

There was a long silence.

Count meditated with his forehead resting in his hand.

Suddenly rose violently and began to give tours agitated murmuring

-
No way!

Can not be!

The Valencia was followed by sight. After all, said taking a step toward the door:

- Bye.

The count stopped with a gesture.

- Wait.

Amalia stood motionless, his hand on the door frame, he looked sharply.

The count continued walking a few moments still ignoring it.

- Okay - said hoarsely, standing, - not be marriage. You tell me what to do.

His haggard face showed the calmness of despair.

- Need to write a letter to Fernanda waving goodbye.

- I will write.

- Right now.

- Right now.

Amalia went to the stairs and asked Jacoba writing material. As there was no table put it on
the dresser. The count went up and started to write up.

Amalia also approached.

- Is this what I want you to write - presenting a paper said.

It was the draft letter. The count he scanned it.

"My good friend Fernanda - he said - I wanted to tell you you were writing what word would be beyond my strength.
I can not be yours.

No need to explain the reasons because you the guess.

I would love you enough to get through everything and run away with you. Unfortunately or
fortunately, there are things that weigh on my heart more than your
love.

Forgive the Having A fooled and try to be happy as you want your
best friend - Luis.

"

He traced the lines of this letter with a trembling hand.

Before concluding, some tears came their eyes.

XV

Josefina sleep.

The Grandee noble easily gave the author of her shame. So read the anonymous and recovered from
the shock, their suspicions went to the Count de Onis. Nothing else pushed him It seemed that, now
clearly warned, between it and the child collection. As others, or because excessive pride
blindfolded or have you had known for Amalia deceived, never noticed among them more than a
cold and ceremonious friendship that had nothing offensive. The same pride stopped during their
bitter thoughts to this account: Why give assent to what the anonymous said? Why not assume
that it was a vile slander an enemy that wanted to poison his existence? But as the dart had
entered deep in his heart he could not wrest. All considerations desire suggested it was not
enough to destroy the great certainty that, without knowing how he had been cast Rondon in the brain.
Some details, which had gone unnoticed for him, acquired suddenly
high relief, rose like torches to guide you.

The main all was, of course, the illness of his wife, coinciding with the onset of girl. He remembered
the strange tenacity with which he opposed any doctor to come up and see it then the mime, the
exquisite care that is lavished on the creature. Also attended his memory those visits that
once made his wife the pretext of picking Farm some plants. No situation was concerning the friendship
of the count and finding the girl, not stirred and weighed in his thinking.

It became a quiet and thoughtful. The hard eyes sunken eyes rested strongly in Amalia long
as it came into his room. On different occasions, he brought the child on any pretext and
looked long, trying to decipher the features of his face the riddle of his existence. Amalia
watched all this, and so well read in the brain of her husband as an open book.

- When Louis married? - Asked him one day in affective tone distracted Grandee.

- They say they still take some time. I do not know what needs to fix issues before going to
Madrid - answered with greater confidence.

- Continued on the Farm?

- Always. Comes only occasionally in the evening, as I said one day
I found him in the shop of Barrosa.

The next night just appeared in the party the count.

- How? You here? Have you already returned the Farm? - Asked D. Pedro, stabbing a penetrating gaze.

-
Definitely not. I have the car down, and go back to sleep.

- You are bored there, right? - Asked D. Christopher Matthew.

- On the day there. I am very busy with farm work, the mill, bugs, etc. But the nights are so
long! ...

Luis came only to see his daughter.

Amalia did not permit until the child was moderately response.

Dress again as before and returned the privileges I had. But not caring. The spell was broken.

Because
Luis loathed: he was subjected to force.

With this burning passion, with that love full of mystery and pleasure
had also joined the crowd at the creature.

But the martyrdom that his anger had made him insane suffering from
a chasm opened between them.

Josefina ever love to his executioner. The poor girl, dressed in rich costumes, wandering alone
through the palace Quiñones, without finding no tenderness. Amalia fleeing from it. The servants,
ashamed of their ill-treatment and despite the sudden change, which rose again on the foundling them,
not on speaking terms. The long-suffering and martyrdom that the dreaded disease ended had left
deep scars on his face. His pale face shone through as nacre. Around that circle the eyes remained
dark, black, agitation and pain.

The count felt his heart tighten every time I see it. Costabal work back tears.

Amalia did not inform his reckless anonymous lover who had led Quiñones. Fearing by the attitude of
this, some grave event, resolviose to mislead you, and to become
Calm was not possible.

The party he chose was suspected Luis away and direct them to James
Moor.

It was only because of their age, shape and position could appear credible as a lover. Began
to treat him in the presence of D. Pedro, with particular affection, distinguishing it from other
talk shows so tired visible.

Looks and smiles Dirigíale significant, liked to stand behind his chair when he was playing
ombre, and tease; llamábale every moment under any pretext and held
him beside her long times speaking in secret, bringing the account
over his face to hers.

It was not so easy as it may seem Moro seduce, if only in appearance. There was nothing unfriendly;
On the contrary, enjoyed fame of chivalrous and gallant with the ladies. But when the ladies became
incompatible with the pool or sitting not more rude and wild were six miles around. Amalia
infinitely mortified him by withholding when ombre waiting for him.

Then do not respond according to your questions, smiled and ran machine
frequent and covetous eyes at the table where his classmates and enjoyed
some sweetness Please turn to bat.

- Moro, you sit here, let's chat.

Moro shivering the world was coming over. He sat beside the lady with a face long, long, which
gave no clear idea of ??the passion that was burning in his chest.

The Grandee had done little for those asides, preferences and smiles suggestive of his wife. I
looked distracted eyes, not to mind any venírsele suspicion, concerned
entirely with the real track.

However, after a few days Amalia and both insisted there was such
skill that the noble knight began to notice Those signs and give them
some value.

The Valencia felt the pleasure of triumph.

Their calculations their way to perform. And to give strong and decisive
impetus to its plot, it occurred when a trick pilgrim.

She was sitting in a corner, taking his side to Jaime Moro, in full view of D. Pedro. Moro, distracted
as usual. Quiñones's wife needed do wonders ability to sustain the conversation, I smiled, petted
him, wrapped him in a network of honeyed words, which strongly emphasized with a smile to draw
D. attention Pedro.

- What is that? Are you looking at my bracelet?

Moro had not noticed it.

- It's very nice - was quick to say complacency.

- It belonged to
my mother.

Has more merit than it seems. This portrait, which is to my grandmother, is made of mosaic
... see you.

At the same time raised his hand.

Moro gazed with admiration affected.

- Fix you well.

And the rose even more, putting it near the eyes. Noting the corner of my eye Don Peter looked
at her, still rose slightly, to almost her young lips. But At that moment live abruptly withdrew
gesture. Moro was stunned. Unwittingly glanced toward D. Peter, and noting that he drove a cold,
penetrating gaze, flushed to the ears. Amalia got up and left the room, as if to conceal his
embarrassment.

It was great that proud Grandee seized with the secret thought surprising. His ideas have experienced
violent shaking. Agitated by a thousand suspicions to the contrary, dominated by a furious rage,
his trembling hands moved between cards, without thinking about them,
imagining horrible revenge on his wife and against ...

Against whom?

What was the traitor? The question further ignited their rage.

What he saw was either inconclusive. And yet, his mind could not depart the Count de Onis. Against
the testimony of his own eyes alleged instinct, an inner voice constantly stated that his enemy.

It
appeared in the party. Amalia greeted coldly and went straight to the cabinet, but Manuel Antonio
kept him swinging for the skirt of his coat.
- Where are you, Luis? Come here, boy, you enfrasques us so early
in the game. Mira, Maria Josefa and Jovita here have been disputing
all night on the date of your marriage. I have told them: "Do not
quarrel over. If today is Luis, is so nice that you have insurance
you to say. "

- For those you cheated - said the count closer to
the group.

- So you have become rude?

- It is not rude, it is ignorance.
These girls know very well that things are not made never as they
want. If I tell them now is a time and prove to the other, think I
had tried to make fun of them.

Despite the efforts made to smile,
the countenance of the count reflected infinite sadness. His voice
was coming off and hoarse.

- No, no! Not so! - Jovita said laughing
you .-- Tell us any day, although it then another, thinking it was
not by choice.

- Well, tomorrow.

- That either! - Both maids shouted
jubilant.

- Not easy to please you. What day want to marry me? You
point it out.

The count had not said a word to anyone for the breakup
of his marriage. The innate weakness of his character forced him to
shut up a story that soon was to spread. I was afraid public curiosity
to questions, to which he divined the face of such causes resolution.
And trembled and deeply saddened whenever, as now, he played this
point.

Hitherto it had nothing transpired. He believed in the city
one day to another would to Madrid to meet with his future. However,
Manuel Antonio, whose nose was above of all his contemporaries, had
smelled something. And with the tenacity and cunning of Isabel England,
began to gather news and connect the dots so that when this who is
much closer to the truth.

- Very sad to see these days, Luisito -
he snapped .-- More than double you will face.

The count was troubled
and knew not to answer most forced smile:

- Marriage is a very serious
step.

He tried to leave, but retain Manuel Antonio again. At all
costs I wanted to find the key to the riddle, namely a positive way
what I suspected. And the help of Maria Josepha he knew better what
to expect, the conversation stayed alert for some time on thorny issue.
Luis was in embers. Frequent glances directed to the site of Amalia
as claiming it was obliged to grant. Arose at last the lady came to
the door and returned to sit. A few moments appeared pale and soft
Josefina. Sad eyes wandered around the room, and a sign of her godmother
turned his steps to the cabinet. Crossing behind the count, he turned
it half and threw a quick look and anxious which did not escape the
sagacity of its partners. The girl looked up at him, glittering with
happy smile. Magnetic shock was a sudden he burned all the joy your
child's heart. The circles they called it, tried to hold her, but
she, obeying the order of his godmother, went to the cabinet. A few
moments later he heard the harsh voice Quinones.

- Is not the Comte
de Onis out there? How not to go?

- Here I go, D. Peter - was quick
to respond Luis, glad to be separated from those annoying group.

Upon
entering the cabinet came in less time than referring it can take
on a terrible scene that ended in shock and awe the entire gathering.
D. Peter was with cards in hand and the same Jaime Moro and D. Enrique
Valero. Saleta, which made the room, talking the chaplain sitting
behind him. Around the table were three or four people standing watching
the game. About Josefina was Grandee noble with his arms crossed waiting
for your blessing to go to bed