 Pacha immediately sent to the punished to the full rigor of the
law, but at the time of execution, all the inhabitants gathered implored his grace with such
request, and the poor girl had so many protests that finally the head Gave forgiveness. Six or
seven months, entirely forgotten that he had escaped death tempted a second excursions for the
same purpose, and having done all the spy Pacha directions with strict orders to apply the
terrible punishment decreed for him, was pinned Four days later, and neither tears, nor could soften
his despair at his captors, incontinently that posed by the horrendous ordeal of being buried alive.

The
unhappy parents, overwhelmed with horror to the news of such an event,
abruptly fled of Irimo, and went to Aten to complain to the judge
the awful punishment which had just suffered its daughter thereby
discovered the mansion in Pacha.

Immediately ordered the authority apprehends this, which was made so, you drove to La-Paz for trial but
it took so long to execute him, that in 1823, when the city fell to the Patriots, Pacha was
seen covered by a general pardon and could then return to his country.

Irimo still exists, and is composed of the same families, subject to the jurisdiction this Aten civil
and ecclesiastical.

Its inhabitants, the great fertility of the land enjoy all the comforts of life, under a mild, in
a delightful position.

The waters of the river to meet the Aten are Mapiri, a tributary of the Beni: at Moreover, this
is the only power center in the province that does not address the Tuyche.

PEOPLES PARTY OR SMALL INTERIOR.

Under this denomination usually meet people from inside, such as San-Jose of Chupiamonas, Tumupaza,
Cavinas Isiamas and separated all of them, vast deserts, from those
just discussed.

I will therefore also describe these people, old missions, also founded,
as stated above, by the Franciscan Fathers.

SAN-JOSE DE CHUPIAMONAS.

Coming to the northeast of Apollo, and going through horrible roads full of dangers of all kinds,
in the middle of a desert without end, and after thirty-eight leagues a march excruciating, it finally
comes to St. Joseph of Chupiamonas, which takes its name a river whose waters are reddish to meet,
not far from there, the river Tuyche. The people composed of seventy-three Indians, all similar
to the Athenians, who speak the same language, is located near the confluence of the said river
which forms the Tuyche, which is so wide at that point, it is necessary to pass it on rafts,
so that people are very helpful to the travelers and merchants, dealing
in a band pass of river to the other.

Because so little number of its inhabitants, had intended to gather this population with that
of Aten, but the just claims of the dealers have made retained as an indispensable item for trade.

The
San-Jose temperature is very warm, but why is there any way know diseases: their abode can not
be more pleasant, it seems that nature had pleased to pour out his gifts in uncivilized places, with
a bounty worth the promised land. The foreigner who comes to Saint Joseph is stunned with admiration
at the sight a vegetation so beautiful, and the infinite variety of fruits that abound there. Indeed
its forests offered all over the vanilla, balsam oil, Recinos, aromatic bark, gums, wax and honey
and many medicinal plants. There spontaneously Críanse the most exquisite fruits, and including
cocoa, which grows wild without being planted by bear abundant crops everywhere. The game
offers prodigious amount of birds and quadrupeds: among these may be mentioned the large beast,
the bear-ant, the parrot-light many deer and wild boar, and a kind of very little pigs, called on the
country Quebo-queres. The Tuyche also abounds in fish. Finally, this extraordinarily fertile soil
produces rice, maize, cassava, peanuts, bananas, pineapples, cotton and sugarcane-sweet, but all
of these productions serve only for the consumption of the population,
and in no way to trade.

TUMUPAZA.

Twelve miles northeast of San-Jose, on a small rocky hill composed of whitish and in the middle
of a horizontal field, covered with small forests or grasslands, is old mission located Tumupaza
[1], converted to this in a parish. When the months of August, September and October, up one on the
hills, warnings to the distance, on many different points, the smoke produced no doubt by the fires
of the savages, which unknown until today live in such places as
to Tumupaza surrounding fertile.

This parish, It consists of eight hundred-eighty-five souls, gathers, in regard to their crop
productions and natural, absolutely the same circumstances as St. Joseph.

These Indians, belonging to the nation tacana are well made and elegant figure, have black hair
and very fine, regular face and a pale white complexion, her face is pleasant and expressive,
and everything in them the joy announces. Are otherwise very plain: all your dress is a robe made of
cotton fabric, which falls to them knees, and he has only half sleeves, are always bare, and
no cover head. Women are very neat, and like a lot of makeup: wanting to get to nature, In this
respect, its ordinary limits, from his youth begin to get bracelets leagues and cotton fabrics, to
modify this procedure by their arms and legs, and appear better educated than they are. Also
adorn the neck with fake corals, and are so exaggerated at this point, that if they could take
it over itself a store of similar ornaments. Vístense the same as the Indians with a cotton tunic,
without sleeves, which give dapi name. This tunic, white, blue or red, replace it, when they
can, for a dress large flowered chintz to Ramage and scarlet background: just go barefoot.
All having a family is, moreover, in a house, some kitchen utensils, instruments of hunting,
the bow and arrows, two or three layers, in as many dapis, and some
blankets, which are covered by lying on the bare floor.

Tumupaza grounds are very productive, but the lack of trade means that its inhabitants do not
grow very accurate but it satisfy their needs. Money [1] is not yet known including replacing
up to the present, to procure the items they need, their fruits that give in return. The eSCelente
cocoa [2], which is grown wild today all parties, can supply enough to cope to the most populous
cities. The Spanish believed that originally planted this plant had been scattered in the
woods for the countless monkeys that they abound: as it may, it now covers immense surface,
and the only task of picking a product yield substantial annual. Despite this abundance, which is continually
growing by the extent taken by Cacahual Native only collect what is enough to pay the personal
contribution of six pounds nugget of cocoa per year, to give his ration of eight pounds a cure,
more like ten to fifteen pounds to barter for needed clothing to the family: the remainder, ie
thousands of pounds are lost every year, being abandoned to the birds and other animals jungle. It
is very easy to understand that there is however a reason for not wanting the people pick
up the leftovers of cocoa that is, because the priest or the mayor do not force to carry on their
backs, for the space of sixty or eighty leagues from the capital, the collection of these fruits.
Indeed, these poor wretches are beasts of burden alone of their country, and were chartered in
the same way that the mules, each man has to carry along with its provisions, thirty-three pounds
of cargo, in a basket called a kid, for wages both slightest regard paid in goods, and do not
represent those only half real value. Where do these trips transport, at public expense or
in service the priest or the mayor, they are paid the actual amount of fourteen, and when they
do on behalf of the traders are starting to Tumupaza three dollars and three and a half since
Isiamas.

It is clear that the costly occupation that now hangs over these unfortunates, not only hinders and
the cast makes the state less salvage, which were seen even free but also contributes to paralyze
one of the most productive branches of the trade republic.

If the current state to more actively engage people in the harvesting of cocoa centuplicar
come to their resources, but this would be necessary, above all, open roads practicable for mules,
or undertake the voyage by the Tuyche. A small part the years invested in this task, being
able to devote the rest of the cotton fabric for not having to pay a cent for the staff of those
lousy cotton cloth that lead them traders.

ISIAMAS.

The people of this name, old mission of the Franciscans, is located nineteen miles north-northeast
of Tumupaza, in the midst of a vast plain punctuated by forests and marshes. The central position
relatively to the other inland towns, we made deserve the prominence
of party-boy capital, and is therefore a distinct vicariate of of
Apollo.

With regard to agriculture and hunting, Isiamas enjoying the same privileges as Tumupaza: in his
district is also a very large species of deer and also often much higher the product of their
fishing in the river Beni, which is far from alone there, when over a thirteen leagues towards the
east. Every year, for the months of August and September, the Indians down to this river, to collect
large numbers of turtle eggs, found in prodigious abundance on its
shores.

Also fish in the rivers of Tequije neighbors and Ithaca, and an infinity ponds and puddles
that form when the rivers run full.

The inhabitants of this village, who seizing the total in 1170, belong to tacana nation, and therefore
their customs and their costumes make them similar to the Tumupaceños entirely.

Isiamas forests are filled with trees whose wood is highly prized for cabinet; We can mention
among them the rosewood and mahogany: there are too many trees there resinous such as sandragon
and oil plants as tumijojo (name equivalent to seed stone), a palm tree, coconuts whose extremely
hard, containing almond oil filled: Retrieves this is only to power the lamps in the churches,
and rarely for trade.

Also take oil several species of palms, and the comoruru, for example,
skin has been thorny and Tueme and Asaja.

The latter is the plant preference, even in the same populations,
near the houses where usually see also some tamarind.

It is unremarkable in cattle breeding Isiamas; are there, however, some horses.

Cavina.

This parish, situated at an immense distance from Isiamas [1] is the last mission which is north
of the province. From the people who just called, you get to sail Cavinas by the Beni River,
which flows eastward a short distance from this place. Although it would be very easy initiate
a communication by land, opening a way through the plains, no doubt the navigation is preferable,
providing the replacement of rafts made of logs tied, they now serve, regular comfortable vessels.

The
people of Cavinas, having been reduced later to other parishes, is exempt from paying taxes, its
population consists of Tacana, in the number of thousand, not but his chief priest, who is responsible
for rule them both spiritually and in civil it is he who leads off to exchange for items they
want.

For the rest, This district has the same production that Tumupaza having direct it, a giant tree
that produces some sort of almonds contained in groups in a shell very thick. The plains would serve
advantageously for raising cattle, if not the vast crowd of bats
[1] that preys at night to suck blood in poor animals, and this at
present a great obstacle to progress.

The Rio Madidi, which takes its origin near Carabaya (in Peru) passes north of Cavinas and not far
from the village, which is built precisely on the very acute angle formed the reunion of that
river with the Beni.

The position so far away from this population quasi puts into contact
with many tribes still savages, but are in the best provision for
converting to Christianity.

Already in 1830, seventy Indians of these tribes came of their own
will to be brought under providential parish so if the government
would protect their conquest, they would soon all of them to establish
new and large populations, and this so more spontaneity since then
it sustraerian incursions of the warlike Machuis, his relentless enemies.

Population

of the province.

As we have seen, Caupolican province consists of ten parishes, whose population divided into
three separate nations, is as follows, according to the reviews undertaken in the year 1832.

+-------------------------------------------------
----------+ | NAME | NAMES OF NATIONS, | TOTAL | | | and number of the population | | | Of | of each district.
| DE | | |--------------------------| THE PEOPLE | | PEOPLE | Quichua | APOL | TACANAS | in each district. | |-------------+--------+--------
-+-------+------------------| | Suches | | | | | | Pelechuco | 2500 | | | 2,500 | | Pata |
165 | | | 165 | | Moxos | 122 | | | 122 | | Apollo | | 2775 | | 2775 | | Santa Cruz | | |
| | | Valle Ameno | | 941 | | 941 | | Aten | | | 1,033 | 1,033 | | St. Joseph | | | | | | Chupiamonas
| | | 73 | 73 | | Tumupaza | | | 885 | 885 | | Isiamas | | | 1,170 | 1,170 | | Cavinas | |
| 1,000 | 1,000 | | |--------+---------+-------+------------ ------| | Total | 2,787 | 3,716
| 4,161 | 10,664 | +-------------------------------------- ---------------------+

This form shows that the population entirely indigenous to the mayor exception and the priest
in each district, amounting to ten thousand six hundred sixty-four inhabitants, whose number, two thousand seven hundred eighty-seven
belong to the Quechua nation, three in 1700 sixteen to the nation
Apollos, four thousand one hundred sixty-one to the nation Tacana.

If these amounts are added to about three thousand Indians, still savages, who live towards
the northwest, north and northeast towards Tumupaza and Cavinas, it will be a total General
thirteen thousand six hundred sixty-four souls.

The three primitive languages ??spoken in the province although it everywhere: just in Suches,
Pelechuco Pata and Moxos means only people in Quichua, the Apollo and Santa Cruz de Valle Ameno
still espressi in Apollo, while in Athens, and in all the inland
towns, language is the only tacana that is in use.

As the Franciscans precision had to communicate continuously with the Indians, in each population
are interpreters, over trade relations, due to the collection of the scale, will gradually helping
to spread the use of Castilian among the Indians, who do not leave and to understand some words.

These
Indians, generally speaking the more docile, they are held without ever complaining, to the
laws imposed on them, while being suitable for all, both in its character, for ease of understanding
them is natural. What I have said in detail Each parish will suffice to give an idea of ??their
customs and their habits, could only Caupolicanos add that everyone is poor, not poverty that
afflicts such because they have what it takes to eat to satiety and
to dress and procure some pleasures, can not stir them on the other
hand the future of their children, in the heart of this nature so
fertile.

Relative poverty is a real wealth of the current state of affairs, because As desirable objects
that do not have the slightest idea! And why work harder than is necessary to obtain the few
things that are known today? The spirit of possession of wealth, and go mustering the means
to procure all future kind of enjoyment, it is now, so to speak, a principle of civilization
unknown to the people to come, much as that of Caupolican, the primitive state. The only way
natural remedy that apathy, indolence that they reproach to all nations yet half savage, is to
be born among them, by the frequency of trade relations, needs that they are at present unknown.
Then, the desire to satisfy, necessarily determined efforts of work, which must provide the
means.

It must be said in praise of the character of these people, they all considered if they belonged
to one family, living in the closest fraternity: thus, for example, when there is one which
the crop becomes insufficient provision for the year, requests as a very natural thing Ausilio
his neighbor, who with the greatest goodwill in the world part with everything he has. Telling it
with his own, never asked a native to the foreigners the slightest thing. If they so generously
give to his countrymen what is necessary for subsistence, are not less willing to lavish superfluity
to those who are his friends.

Abuse of functions, which, with large number of religious festivals has introduced Caupolican the
clergy, as well as on the plains of Bolivia, is undoubtedly the main cause of ruin and disorder.
If such days the natives of the interior villages content with grotesquely attired and carry on
their persons the varied plumage of birds of their forests without drinking anything other than the chicha,
the fermented liquid made yucca, which is neither too strong nor harmful, not the case with the natives
of Caupolican, dresses with the same extravagance that make use of
spirits and caused this drink great expense while the loss of his
health.
