 

I left Cochabamba July 2 to conduct my business. I climbed the mountain first Tiquipaya, even
Tutulima found no obstacles in my way. Leaving this place, last lived, walked through the
side of the river and cerranía Tutulima of Paracti, finding on the other side of the Yuracarés nation,
with whom I built a canoe continuing then the river Securi, I, at forty days of excruciating journey,
to the province Moxos completely satisfied with the successful outcome of my adventure resolution.

Meanwhile,
my company had been frowned upon by some employees of Moxos, which
being sent from Santa Cruz de la Sierra, worry did not stop with the
establishment of a more abbreviated communication by way of Cachabamba.

Awaked the old rivalries and Then came a sad event to mess up the forecast.

Col. Davila, whom I had left in Cochabamba, and soon to depart for Moxos with mission to operate
the numerous reforms, which in concert with him we had Mr. Carrasco
indicated the benefit of the unfortunate inhabitants of this province,
had to succumb to strong impulses that had befallen colic in the evening
before their departure, to the Within hours of being in your home
from a party.

Such was the sad news brought by canoes, which had gone for Isiboro. I saw it with feeling
that is rendered useless much effort as I had done to get the improvement of the condition of
indigenous inhabiting these remote regions.

On September 8, following the course of the river Piray, I found the bishop of Santa-Cruz,
which was commissioned by the government to visit the province of Moxos, to extirpate in her religious
abuse. A sandbar toilet served us for twenty-four hours, at which period had a long conference
with Mr. Cordova illustrísimo, educated personage and very friendly,
about the sorry state of the province of Moxos, telling me means I
appeared as leading to the sauté of abuse of all kinds, ranging daily
auento.

I then tried a moment of satisfaction, finding in this worthy prelate protector solicitous of
humanity, ready to bring into play all the strings to make ends both wanted, improving the condition
of the Indians.

I found myself in Moxos in 1832, Mr. Carmelo Rivera, acting governor of the province, tried to
suppress the riots and purge the country of those speculators and dishonest employees, taking
to do a crackdown. Sent wagered on all roads, emissaries charge of possession of the canoes loaded,
then check in the capital goods the year that they drove. This measure failed to produce the
desired effect.

All managers were caught with more fruit on his property, that the party intended to the State,
no testimony was needed lighter lawless that made use of its functions, and the party that drew
the poor Indians, using the authority they had over them to make them work as slaves. Fully
convicted of so much guilt were all dismissed on the spot.

STATE OF THE PROVINCE

Policy Division.

It is to believe, what happened to the missions of Paraguay [1], that
the preservation of Jesuit institutions, under different governments
that have happened in the period sixty-five years has prevented the
destruction of Moxos missions, as well, visiting I the province in
1832, I found, with men as rulers, with different customs prosperity
and well below, all still intact and administrative institutions religious
missionaries who had left in 1767, a time of their expulsion.

With the suppression of four missions, under the administration of the priests [1], and the
creation del Carmen and San-Ramon-time governors [2], the province currently consists thirteen
inhabited areas, which are generally divided into two parties, one called Mamore and Pampas
and the other Itonama and Baures. The first consists of Trinidad, Loreto, San-Xavier, St. Ignatius,
San-Pedro, of exaltation, of Santa Ana and Kings. The second contains missions San-Ramon, San-Joaquin,
Magdalena, Concepcion and Carmen.

Party Mamore and Pampas.

TRINIDAD.

The mission of Trinidad, one of the oldest in the province, was founded
by the Jesuits in 1687.

She is the center of a vast plain that is located three miles east
of Mamore, and as to two Ivari river, its surroundings, very dry in
the winter and flooded in summer, lack of trees: there towards the
east a large lake, a quarter of a mile distant from people.

Its population, made up of Indians Moxos, amounted, in 1691, the
number of 2200 fifty-three [1], and in 1824 came this mission to be
the capital of the province.

His church is vast and beautiful architecture, though somewhat overloaded with sculptures wood.
The Government House, which has a high floor, is large and quite comfortable. This village similar
to all others in terms of its circulation, exercises the same kind of Concepcion industry and Saint
Xavier.

Its original inhabitants of the nation all moxa, and come to two thousand and four, are kindly
in the extreme, they begin to become civilized and dress and as in inner cities. Some women have
also adopted the dress belt, adjusted at the waist.

Every year for Passover, they leave managers of the province their respective missions, to make
his way to the capital, leading productions of the year. On arrival of each boat, many merchants
who came from Santa-Cruz, attempt to deceive the poor Indians, not
it will heal completely ignoring the value of items received in exchange
for cocoa and other fruits.

Trinidad is the residence of the vicar general of the province, the governor, and secretary
which carries the title of general manager.

Trinity Road to San Xavier.

There are twelve miles from Trinidad to St. Xavier, which is towards
the north, to pave the Instead, it is necessary to cross the plains
on horseback planted here and there carondais palms, While for the
conveyance of goods is lowered as a league and a half, the plain of
west to the river Ivari by which it follows, carrying cargoes canoes.

This river born in the country of Guarayos, crossing to the southeast across the plain, on
more than two degrees long, receiving many tributaries in its course, and then going to four
miles from the Loreto mission, not far from the mission of Trinity, to go and lost an arm of
Mamore; still running some time longer, parallel to the river, before meeting him definitely.
The island formed by these two rivers, is covered with beautiful plantations of bananas, for cassava
and other various fruits, such as cocoa, which also is grown wild in boscages the banks, giving
abundant crops every year. After having continued for half a day Ivari countless rodeos, you get
the Mamore. The junction formed by these rivers is perhaps of all parts of the province, the most
dangerous for seafarers, as chócanse Both strands him with extreme violence, raising tides and
swirling foam, where the flimsy boats sink: every year there are numerous examples of such failures.
From this confluence of the Mamore edges are trimmed with magnificent forests, and also of swamps,
to the port of San-Xavier, which lies about two leagues from the mission.

Trinidad roads to Loreto.

Loreto far little about twelve miles southeast of Trinidad. In the dry season make this journey across
the beautiful plains covered with palm trees here and there carondais.

Firstly it runs along the stream of Trinidad, you pass this on followed
by a period, as a mile away from a stay of the mission, we publish
a thin stream that crosses by a marsh, and a little later the San-Miguel
stay where they are many cattle.

Leaving this place is the middle of the road, cross the San-Miguel Curichi bathed spacious,
and after having traveled two leagues we present the river which at all times Ivari is necessary to
pass in canoes, two leagues beyond is the residence of San-Antonio and the stream of the same
name, amid some bushes, where there are also beautiful pasture. A league of plains is the remainder
of the road from this point to Loreto.

The distance from Trinidad to Loreto, going down the river, is three times larger, and generally
two days are used to make this journey. First the river was up to its confluence Ivari Mamore
arm. Most notable is the contrast that at this point is presented to the eyes the traveler.
The Ivari, coming down from the marshes to the east of the country
of Guarayos clear water very slowly, although black sheen, while the
arm Mamore near muddy red exes run with speed.

You have to walk through this arm as a league, passing through the middle of fields covered with
bananas, to lead in the Mamore. Some of its corners are filled with trees uprooted by the current,
and that have been piling up little by little in those places. In the dry season passes night
on a sandbar, with sand right and left and steep slopes, that continually undermined by water,
usually collapsed with a crash, promoting corpulent waves that failure to fund thrown vessels,
filled with water, damaged the cargo; so the Indians are forced to watch all night, to avoid
damage semejentes. Continuing the journey passes through you pocket two large lakes which
are to the right, and soon comes the big mouth of a river called Securi, coming down from the
mountains of Yuracaré: this river, as wide as the Mamore, and which is more encased riverbed,
was which I discovered when opening the new road from Cochabamba to Moxos. Departing from the
mouth Securi river, to go ahead by the Mamore has finally come to a marsh that is to the right, and
on whose shore is the port of Loreto, located about seven miles the SSE of the mission.

It is composed of two houses that port, the one that is not only a spacious barn to house to travelers,
and the other for the mayor of the port. From this point, which, incidentally for Santa Cruz
de la Sierra or Cachabamba, necessarily attend to the travelers provided of food, goes to Loreto
on horseback through a named extended cacahual, and then a cane to go to a marsh covered with trees,
where it is necessary to bend at every step to avoid the vines, besides taking care not to
trip on the swollen roots that adorn all the ground. It then presents a floodplain, in which
the horses are put to the knees.

A league of port is the residence of Nevis, where there are many cattle, and after to cross
a stream deep enough, you follow a boscage thin and full of water, leading Finally in a flooded
marsh in which water gets to the meetings of the horse. Is need to go at a gallop down the middle
of the marshes and forests to palm carondais get in Loreto. The horses are so accustomed to
these roads, walking for them as safe as the mules in the mountains, and is something that really
surprised to see them save with such skill holes covering all that ground. Finally, after
Tico had crossed the river, through a bridge of logs, is cast in Loreto dismounted.

LORETO.

Our Lady of Loreto, the oldest mission in the province, was founded by the Jesuits in 1684
[1], not far from the Mamore and quite apart from the site it occupies today. Composite Indians
who speak the dialects of moxa, had in 1691 three thousand eight hundred twenty souls. Having moved
in the different times it has been definitely established, after the expulsion of the Jesuits,
between the rivers Tico é Ivari, distant ten leagues the reunion
of the latter river with the arm of the Mamore, and within a beautiful
plain partly trimmed trees, but too wet in summer.

Built like the other missions Moxos, Loreto has a vast and beautiful church, and a chapel attached
to the exterior, near the cemetery. In countries where people content themselves with wild fruits,
it seems very rare to find tree plantations fruit, as in this population, which has a beautiful garden
in which there are guaporus, guyavos, custard apples and other bushes covered with flowers more
colorful. The inhabitants, belonging to the nation of Moxos, and are now reduced the number of
two thousand one hundred forty-five are very industrious and honest.

Moreover, this mission shares the same conditions as other comprising the province.

SAN-FRANCISCO XAVIER.

Jesuits founded the mission of that name in 1690, on the west bank of the river Mamore between the mouths
of rivers and distant Tijamuchi Aper and about eight miles north of Trinidad. To visit the
governor of Santa Cruz in 1691, found in her two thousand three hundred and sixty and souls
that number later accretion to three thousand.

After the expulsion of the Jesuits, this mission was transferred
to the opposite bank, on a broader floodplain in parts, and where
a small stream that communicates with the Mamore facilitates navigation
in the period of rainfall.

The buildings of St.-Xavier de Moxos are still provisional, the school consists only of a low
floor, and the only thing remarkable there is a cross COAB, embedded with the bright pearl from
the shells of fresh water. Industry, compared with the other cantons, is in very good condition,
the tissues are higher and the work joinery and pearl inlays run with much expertise. Its population,
which consists today of 1515 inhabitants of the nation moxa, is also a farmer and harvest large
amount of cocoa annually. These natives are generally good-natured, but somewhat fanatical.
In 1833 had by an Indian chief instructed to play fairly well as a director, and whose integrity
to every test was the most estimable your clothes. St. Xavier is the more uncomfortable by mosquitoes,
to whose stubborn attacks the inhabitants are accustomed, but which are a torment to the travelers
newcomers. The abundance of these insects comes from the vast floodplains, where they form swamps
and temporary lakes covered with reeds.

In 1832 this mission possessed six thousand one hundred seventy-one cattle, one hundred forty
and three horses, donkeys eight hundred and forty-six goats, fifty-one sheep and ten and eight pigs.

Camino
de San-San-Pedro Xavier.

Saint Pierre is located twelve miles north of San-Xavier, in the prolongation of eastern plains of
the Rio Mamore. This journey is done on horseback in the dry season in the rainy season and
to transport goods, it is necessary to do down in dugout canoes by
the Mamore River.

Leaving San-Xavier, takes a stream that winds through the plain between carondais palm groves, and
after having gone about two miles, you come in a marsh on which is the port, which is only
distinguished by their booth and the countless boats moored in it:
there is input immediately Mamore.

Offers this vast river at that point, the same look as above, ie
that its banks are composed modern land also, and are covered by wetlands
which crosses many times to shorten the road, or for not having to
fight against the tide when he travels upstream.

This will reach the port of San-Pedro, far more than a league of the population, whither goes
horseback. In times of rising, pass two streams on rafts made of leather, leads to a naked
Indian to swim to the opposite bank. In the province of Corrientes, and almost all of America,
its value this shaky boat, which is not possible make a move without risk of tipping.