 The improvement and progress,
also (because I will not deny that there has been), come out and overlap and do not stick our inner
being, he enlarged and improved. Although I have said, I still say that, in my opinion, that
Napoleon Alejandro worth more than Hegel and Aristotle, Pindar or Isaiah more than Victor Hugo,
and Phidias and Praxiteles than Canova and Thorvaldsen. In all this is denial progress. Superman Superman
was two thousand or three thousand years in the day. The distance to be infinite intelligence
that we have separate sovereign, can be saved at any time, please the sky, rapture of love divine,
precious prize awarded a unique person and has nothing to do with progress. What is as a series of
degrees bringing us closer to perfection, is not the path that leads us to the point where superhumanity
appears. Or almost with others of different breed than the man hit me with wands in that way. I'm almost
to assert that, as radical and substantial, between God and man intermediate excellence is
not discovered. After God, it seems that man is the highest today is conceived and has ever conceived.
All beings with the appearance of higher to us, we submit and get to our service. Through incantations
to evoke demons through exorcism's throw from where he ought not to be; the Sylphs and the sprites
are dying of love for us, the gods and goddesses of all religions tend to fall in love with
mortals and marry them; genii come to avail ourselves, to protect and to inspire poetry, prose and
other charms, fairies weave rich fabrics, made bright jewelry and favors for the princesses and
even the fregatrices, the angels are our custody and come to us as ambassadors and even as messengers,
and the archangels, and are Paraninfo and as a squire and guides to accompany us on our trips. Let's
see, I ask, if is lawful to ask or expect more after reaching or have reached all this?

In other improvements, we could achieve over time, I noticed immediately that the contradiction
arises.

Let's say you became widespread among men to be as beautiful as the Apollo Belvedere, and among women
to be as beautiful and shapely as the Venus de Milo or Callipygian, and the elegant and aristocratic
point would find vulgar and ordinary to be so and to distinguish and be deformed skull, compressing
or filling him Burujón, empecatadas incur and other extravagances. And let us also if the
end so skillfully arranged the body of society, that vice is always punished and virtue always
rewarded. Well in my opinion, I could not think of anything worse. Then yes virtue would be
but a name. Cuckoos and ragamuffin, motivated by the sure reward, would be the most virtuous,
and when someone, despising the interest, was delivered to ugliest vices and crimes perpetrate
senior mark, we would be inclined to believe either that was crazy, and it was therefore irresponsible,
or that was a creature of condition very high, whose spirited and sublime passions drove him
to dispose of the vulgar selfishness and run off the common pattern that we all would have
locked up.

In short, no more tired and I would say that no one Columbro by the
advent Superman, without simultaneously occurring insoluble contradictions.

Possible is not However, the occurrence superman. But who assures me that is better morally
than man now, and not with more knowledge and power, lawless and wicked? Fracastoro, in the
verses that I serve as an epigraph, considered possible the emergence of a caste supermen, but
will not be good, but are insolent and ferocious giants will not puppet head will rise up against
God, and try to throw the sky, and make us victims and their slaves. And Swedenborg, when
he was on the planet Venus, saw and treated the men there, and so tells them, and so hurry to enter
them was, we can calculate how much they would suffer and the great misfortune to come upon
us if such a breed, so smug, arrogant and powerful, appeared in this globe we inhabit.

I conclude, therefore, (and not because I'm running out of reasons, but because I run out of
patience and I fear that readers will end well), that the most wise and prudent is not wish
or hope that superman comes, and be content with regular men as they
have always used, although rich, increasingly, with ingenious inventions,
already achieved as electric lighting, and how that will undoubtedly
be achieved in give direction to the balloons, take out the colors
in the photographs of the camera obscura, and who know if you get
to feed and convoluted extracts quintessence without this gross power
now, which, after a year, every man swallows a lot of substances,
hundreds of times heavier and bulkier than his body.

In short, much, much is can invent and improve even before the time comes that the appearance
of Superman we come over. What is Sarah Bernard skills and witty writings John Richepin, but
I am glad because I delight and I love, I dare not infer that the appearance is close.

SR inductions. D. POMPEY GENER

Among the thousand misfortunes that beset today to mother Spain, not least the itch remedy that
has taken hold of many people. Spring from the itching, as abundant wellspring, social and political
speeches, articles, novels and dramas and not a few scientific books or most scientists, who
could well be described as political or psicoiatría therapeutic endemic. And do not condemn I understand
the itch, which is natural and invincible, no less the result, which, if it becomes profitable,
is without doubt, or can be, and fun as interesting. And how can I condemn them without condemning
it, which I also got a healer writing or dictating modestly some
recipes?

What I dislike me, or rather me afraid, are not the same recipes,
and pronounced, as written, in the gallery, theater, in newspapers
or in large volumes, but people are passionate about what prescriptions
prescribe, look at it the more excellent panacea and it strives to
implement the country ill disturbing the rest of you need more than
anything to convalesce and regain their health and old force.

Anyway, the books written and published and, with the intent to heal and regenerate, deserve careful
study, which, if God gives me life and good humor, I think I devote myself, no no hope of
picking some fruit, artwork and contribute a little theory, and that practice, I am disabled,
to the desired regeneration.

For now, I shall indicate here a few questions that I offer, because I think in any science or
art of medicine throughout the former has to be the knowledge of the disease, and secondly to
find and implement the remedy.

The disease often remains hidden and only known symptoms, external phenomena visible or tangible,
are no cause and effect.

And if we take has the effect, do not expose ourselves to wander the cure? Such is the consideration
that discourages me, I retract the office of healer and that moves me not to give more credit
than I give myself more confident other healers.

I will say here, in this regard, what inspires me and pre-scientific common sense creeping.

Who does not agree with me say, as I have repeatedly stated on other
occasions, Spain is now richer, more people supported, grows best
in their fields, have more industry and trade and can boast of illustrious
sons, so smart, so well spoken, so unobtrusive and skilled as any
other time in its history?

The decline, prostration, degeneration, or as we like to call it, is not therefore absolute but relative.
In the path of progress, where the nations of Europe are guiding and instructing the rest of
human race and this for three or four centuries, Spain has been lately far behind, and hence the
contemptuous isolation that leave us going forward, our mistrust
and despondency in whom peculiar self-distrust.

For something like a spiritual backlash, there are times to avoid being killed more than arrogant
we just, we assess the merit of our men and our things of the past, and until we do the apotheosis,
or at least the most superlative praise, and this, and of that of the present times. Then qualify
unbeaten General excites us, more eloquent than Cicero and Demosthenes our favorite speaker;
and the author of the comedy or the drama we've welcomed much more sublime than Shakespeare,
whose works have usually been careful not to read.

Unfortunately, this laudatory enthusiasm soon as the fire goes out
of tow, and prostration deeper again lord our souls, saddened and
humiliated.

There is a way of reasoning from which many individuals do not realize. Run without receiving that pass,
and take the consequences can be very cruel. Of inferiority patent visible and clear on issues
and cases of practical life, we infer inferiority that is most substantial and important in being and
in the lives of the people. Take a example to clarify and better explain this idea.

Let us imagine a lady, beautiful and rich, who want to live and lives in Spain with all the refinements
workmanship and now style. This lady will come from England his cars
and horses, and France their headdresses and costumes.

Perhaps fearing that a Spanish cook the poison, will come from foreign land, with the view of an
aristocratic poet, a

Some excellent chemical He studied and earned the fringe In the Café de Paris Sorbonne cooks.

Done
all that, the speech comes fatally above.

When here, will run the lady, and is woven with the delicacy in France, or make cars like the English,
or so beautiful breed horses or caps and gowns are made as in Paris or even seasoned tasty dishes
that delight my palate, it is clear that in other tasks with determination and in other higher
yields lucirnos we will not.

    I should, therefore dismiss
    that should have very little
    value and be very pesky,
    as they say now, novels, poetry and even the philosophies of my homeland.

Under such consideration, or the lady does not ever take a book in her beautiful white hands, or
if it blunts literate or philosopher, Paris will also bring their spiritual nourishment, and
brings its beauties, ornaments, elegance and material gifts.

I am not an informer tilde. I do not betray or accuse the lady, if she alone sinned. What more,
what less, we all sin in the same style. Cast the first stone against the guilty who is considered
innocent.

Has deep roots in our soil the tree of our ancient and pure culture. Exotic seeds, even food
and tasty, and weed also coming outside, not drown the tree, or near
dry and burning him and suck the juice yet; but begin to deteriorate
a bit.

The Gallicism invades our thoughts minds more than they should. I do not disapprove at all
the imitation, but it is necessary that the trial straight forward to refuse the evil and choose
good to then imitate.

The pity is that referred to imitate without prior selection, simplicity or extravagance all
transpyrenean seduce us, and let ourselves be carried away by the enthusiasm with no criteria
reasonable to restrain us.

Now living alone who has this writing and not paying attention, for their old age their illness,
almost anything that happens outside of Spain, a substantial chunk of doctrines philosophy, the
direction it takes and follows most of the spirits and the current ideas and opinions that inform
the newest literature, but sees everything, portrayed as a faithful mirror, in the Spanish literary
productions now, especially when presumed to contain or to be philosophy.

Whenever I condemn or deplore this travesty, this lack or shortage of originality castiza, but
I find it difficult or impossible to avoid so, and absolve the writer or the thinker to whom
notice is required. Why did not commit to accepting the concept of philosophy usually forms
today? What forms do I say today, when I should say that has formed forever? Even as a former
classroom sounded a familiar proverb that I dare to quote here, because it comes in support of my
assertion, but it uses pretty words and nothing of pure vulgarity. The proverb says: Grammar and Philosophy
babas with beards, which means that in order dialectical philosophy may be the beginning and
foundation of all knowledge, but in the chronological order of philosophy is the last thing you learned
or can be learned: is a firm seat, very solid and secure the throne where reflection or thought
to put the experimental science and long series of observations and analysis has become and tidy.

Move
me to say that reading a recent book entitled inductions due to the significant cultivadísimo
and eloquent wit and enthusiasm of Mr. D. Pompey Gener.

I am delighted to coincide with the author as understood to have the same concept of philosophy. Is undeniable
to me that philosophy is not good without empirical knowledge of what on that philosophy, and
when not philosophize about something, the philosophy has to be vain and mere play of empty
words.

Now as long, and let for whatever reason, we have not worn the Spanish in the sciences of observation
and study of nature or of the visible universe, it can be inferred
that the crown of the life sciences and this study, or philosophy,
or must be between us anachronistic and out of fashion, or to some
extent has to be imported, as the electric telegraph, photography,
telephone, the phonograph and not a few other subtle and astonishing
inventions.

Do not be surprised, then, that philosophy as imported into Spain imported the inventions mentioned.
It should, however, make a distinction. Take for example any of the aforementioned devices:
phone, for instance. Its usefulness and reality are so tested, there is no means by which we deceive
ourselves. It may be that in practice we are more clumsy, we do bad and inconvenient, but at the
end of the day we will learn to call. I think we have learned, and phoned in Spain as well as
in any other country world. But philosophy, and forgive me as despicable and lowly expression,
is a whole another matter: it is a matter a thousand times more complicated
and mysterious, and it may happen, and my view happens, we take as
truth the lie, the dream and reasoning wise the biggest delusions.

It may happen also something contrary to what happens with the inventions of science natural that
they all agree and do not oppose each other or roar of being together as they say.