 He is dry and hard with me, I can I
be loving and gentle with him? Come on, say you. Never gives me no chance to show my Sweetheart,
if I tried. But do not talk about the case, turn the page and try something else the other. What
was dad when you married?

- There was something, was pretty, yes, sir. It had a wood workshop in the North, shingle, brick,
cal ... back in the Alameda or Paseo, near the Point. The land on which was also belonged, though
worth little to be very muddy and low. He was also there, where now manufactured home from school
in Buena Vista, a hut. Certainly the last muzzles marked in the left shoulder with the letters
G and B are still some in the mill's Tinaja, I inherited from my father. Candide, in partnership
with Don Pedro White often brings Africa still black. But both the British pursued the issue,
which expeditions lost many more being saved ...

- Imagine, Mom, Leonardo said with much laughter, while lowering his
voice, a male plagiarist Conde become ... the Hut, for example.

What a cute title! - How's Mom?

- What do you mean by that stand out banks? Rosa asked not bother unless surprised.

- Oh, Mama! Do not you know that according to Roman law are those who steal plagiarists men
to sell?

- Ya. In that case, your father is not the real plagiarist, as you say, but Don Pedro Blanco,
who is known from its factory in Hens, on the coast of Guinea, (many times I've heard those names
that I have been printed) is black with trinkets and other things and forwards shipments to
the island Your father takes the need for their farms and the others sold to the planters, because
until recently he has been acting as agent and before White as a
partner, when there was no contraband trafficking in Africa, or tolerated.

For your account at least, has not released but few expeditions. From time to time expected
the return of the brig Speedy. God grant that has not fallen into the clutches of the English!

-
You, unintentionally, are advocating on my behalf.

I said what I said in jest, but it is clear Mom, that under law a crime so that kills the cow
and the that holds the leg.

- Do not give me your principles, your purposes and your Roman laws. And they tell them what
like, the truth is that there is much difference between the behavior of your father and Don
Pedro Blanco. It is there in the land of savages, he is the one who seeks to treatment, he
is the one who captures and forwards for sale in this country so that, if there is it a crime or
guilt, his will in any case of your father. And, while you look away Gamboa do anything bad
or ugly, makes a profit, something to be celebrated, because if receives and sells, as agent, it
is understood, savages, is to baptize them and give them a religion that certainly do not have
on their land.

So if you say so, you know that if the holder, as for now do not
think, not pretty and would lack titles all honorable.

Well, as I said before, this time I will go to excite given your father's bag.

- Why do not you go?

- Why would you tell the truth, that is, he wanted the money to make you a gift.

- Well, so what? He will never deny anything.

- True, but as is so angry with you, I fear I deny it.

- When he is not angry with me, Mom?

That is yours endemic, chronic, better said.

If I go, because I go, if I do not go, because I'm home. Anyway,
enter year and year out and dad is never happy with me.

I was caught between his eyes, Mom, this the truth is plain and simple. Why beating about the bush?
The result is that it does not seem While nothing of what I do or fall apart.

- Not your father's so unjust, nor so lacking in parental love, if you behave, believe that you misbehaved.
Look no further than last night you were in correntón Rule.

What hours you come back?

- "For whom did you know him?

- It matters little canal, but he knows that he was told this morning in the spring of Cavalry.

-
Vamos!

That will not wash. By early spring but do not attend the news Tasajero and sniffing, because this
is their hangout, spending the morning waiting for the signal Morro Courier Spain, Santander
boat or Montevideo, with flour or beef jerky. Such kids do not attend Palace dances Rule. The
storyteller and fall on who was, could not be other than Aponte. I assure you, and pay me
very talkative dog.

- Was not that the informer.

However, had I been, you would hit so bad, for if your father asked him, I know not how could
hide the truth.

- He could say he did not know, he did not hear the bell of the clock
of the Holy Spirit, who ... any thing, unless I came to this or that
hour, I was not here nor there.

He has very loose tongue the Taita Aponte and dad gave him like asking vein. Miracle did not
tell ... But, in a nutshell, what was I doing in Rule last night?

- Do not tell me, I do not know, I guess you did not do anything wrong. The result is Leonardite,
you do not apply to studies that do not advance in anything good or useful, and that time you
had to devote to reading and meditation, you waste on frivolous parties
and as harmful and dangerous raids.

That can not be liked by him, or ... me either, the same thing that I love dearly. Want your father
and I want to study more and unless you walk, have fun, but do not
give in to the dissipation, which is not bad passes nights, you moderate,
..., in short, you behave yourself.

The emotion experienced Rosa deprived of the use of the word, filled with tears her beautiful
eyes.

- You're no good preacher, Leonardo said, perhaps with the intention of distracting their attention,
because you matter too much possession.

- With respect to Aponte, Rosa continued after it had calmed down, I know it is a talker, but
in honor of the truth, I must say that your father knew the time you got back by noise that was
made in the hall with the opening of the door, the carriage entrance and the tramp of horses. With
the silence of the night, every noise is thunder. He awoke, lit a snuff with the tinder-box, looked
at his watch and gave a cry of anger.

I pretended to be asleep.

It was two thirty in the morning ... Still know you in the face of bad night.

There was another brief interval of silence between those two parties, during which Leonardo
esperezó yawned and different times, until he stood up and said:

- I go to sleep ... If you buy the watch, well, if not, it hardly
matters.

He turned and began the ascent of the staircase of his bedroom, step to step, which if you count
the steps or cost you a great effort. The mother, meanwhile, was followed eyes, without saying
another word or move in the chair, but that he lost sight in the
highlands of the stairs, briskly stirred and called loudly: - burst!

A more pressing call, was quick to respond in own person the butler
said in the previous chapter.

It was a short man in body, stocky, dark, round face and very curly
hair, so in appearance and in manner stated resolution and agility.

Although dressed in clean, came in a vest, translucent leagues that came from Asturias, uncommon
type of Spanish then in Havana.

Butler was at Don Candido Gamboa, and whether certain books had not dealt with on the desktop,
as in other committees more in line with their employment.

When he appeared in front of Dona Rosa, was the pen behind ear, and
she said in a tone of command:

- Resale, Gamboa tell you to send
me to twenty ounces.

He was the man and returned promptly with the money order, which took
out the small iron box, under the folder, where there were several
bags stuffed with gold and silver coins.

- Put on the jacket, said
Rosa ounces spilling on the table to count, and now go to the streets
of Lieutenant King, the other door of the pharmacy of St. Augustine
Dubois watches, and buys you the best repeater that has recently received
Geneva.

You say it is for me. Have you heard?

- Yes, ma'am.

- I guess you do not understand clocks.

- I can not
achieve much, they say, but in Gijón, where I was born and raised,
more than one clock, and an uncle, brother of my mother, God rest
his soul, was in the nail, so to says, the mechanism of clocks.

-
Did not say so, Don Meliton, he said to warn against any deception
could practice with you, if you believed that the watch was for you
or someone like that ... "You I mean?

- Ya, ya, I'm aware.

- Listen.

Dubois Emphasize that you watch for me. He knows me and know that it would cost expensive ...

- To you for a ride, "interrupted the steward.

Granted it would cost a fortune face, if that did the very villain.

Too much I know and I know him.

- I do not I have to villain, as you say, but good to be prevented
...

- Because the soldier was never prevented up, again interrupted
the butler, playing thinking their way of love.

- Ah!

Have you put in a thin, as a gift. Do you understand you?

- Take it if you understand! Perfectly.

- Okay. You go

- Flying.

- Do you agree? Gold watch, repetition, Swiss, I mean, Geneva, from the previous Geneva received
by the watchmaker Dubois, who lives on the streets of Lieutenant King, the other door of the
pharmacy of St. Augustine.

- Yes, yes, Dona Rosa. All that I remember and I will present. And in a break ...

- Listen! I limit myself to 18 oz. You want the best repeater, Geneva legitimate regardless.
If more money is needed, you come for him.

- Will be served to Mrs. Rosa literally.

- Ah! Burst! Burst! Come here. The main thing I forgot. Do you do them within the top brands: LGS October.
24, 1830. Do not forget.

In fact, in just over an hour Butler was back and turned over to Dona Rosa a small box, square,
morocco, with gold fillets. No doubt this lady was waiting for him impatient, because take, open,
contemplate for a short time with a kind of joy child up and go into his room, with no further case
of Butler, was all one.

It did not take longer than just using the relationship of the comic scene.

Leonardo on his part, so sure was he that would not get the sun of that day without a new watch came
to decorating his costume in the pocket of his trousers, having laid them on the couch in
front of his bed, he lay quiet, determined to sleep and repair forces broken by fatigue and
lack of sleep last night. Dozed only when the sound of tiny footsteps and clothes of a woman,
came to confirm their hope. It was his mother.

Pretended to be asleep and watched quietly approached the couch, lifted up his pants, put in the
front pocket something round that shone long, hanging from a belt pink and blue silk, forming
water, more than an inch wide and six long, subject the ends by a gold buckle. Smiled with pleasure,
and closed his eyes, to her mother retire upon the persuasion that he had prepared a surprise.

Returning
Rosa pants on the couch, watching the tape of the clock is visible and slide in the pocket
of his waistcoat two ounces left over from the purchase of the former,
he felt that his son had moved in bed.

He started as if he had been making a crime and then, in fact, came
a ray of light in his consciousness of mother vividly recalled the
words of her husband's conversation in the early morning, and felt
a kind repentance.

Something inside her told her that if she did not actually evil,
not be not a well known and their proofs solid tender and loving with
Leonardo when not born of merit made by him, but the spontaneous outpouring
of his heart and indiscreet mother.

     
 Puzzled, including pick up the garment, something to keep it for more
opportune time, and face hence the distress and unpleasantness of
the son, stood still, as transfigured.

He, although brief, was a crowning moment for the sad mother. At last he cast a furtive glance
to the bed, he saw Leonardo naked from the waist up, arms on the pillow and the beautiful head resting
on the palms, chest open and lifted, raising the aspiration and down
on the breath, which the wave does not break, long nose, mouth ajar
to give free passage to the entrance and exit of air, pale countenance
the Sleep and agitation of the day, but full of health and strength,
a sense of pride took over his whole being, changing suddenly and
completely the order of his thoughts.

- Poor! exclaimed in a tone
almost audible.

Why could I deprive him of anything, when in the age to enjoy and have fun? Enjoy and have fun,
because, as you lasting health and the youth, which will come to you, as they have been for
us all the days of trouble and sorrows. The Blessed Virgin, in whom both trust and put all my hope,
will not to hear my prayers. She will protect and serve the good
of the world's dangers.

God make you a saint, son of my heart.

He moved his lips together as a sign of throwing a kiss, and was so creeping like wine.

PART TWO

CHAPTER I

Ossa venientibus later. (Those who arrive late to the banquet gnaw the bones.)

We have to stop for a short time these characters, to deal with others not being inferior braise,
represent our true history minor role. We refer toilet now famous clarinet, José Dolores Pimienta.

To
see him with the needle in his hand sitting on the couch together with other officers to tailor
a low platform, tacking a coat of dark green cloth, still tops or skirts, strength is that
we get to the master tailor Uribe on Wall Street, the gateway immediately the corner of Villegas,
where there was a dry goods store called the Sun

The first of these facilities consisted of an oblong room with three
entries: that of the primitive gate wide and high, and the two windows,
whose gates had been removed.

Against them longitudinally, there was a long narrow table on which were various pieces of
denim, quilted, Arabia, of a genre called nutsedge cotton, satin and fine cloth, all coiled and stacked
at one end. And to the opposite, lying two Mahon fabric pieces, which had already drawn a pair
of pants for men with a sliver of soap ashes.

Behind the table or counter, standing in shirt sleeves, white apron tied to waist, scissors in his right
hand and tossed around the shoulders, as a tape paper folded in half along its length, with stitches
here and there, was the master tailor Uribe, a favorite at the time of the elegant youth of Havana.
Although I would like, I could not deny the black, white mixed with that owed its origin.
It was high-class, lean meats, carilargo, was disproportionate arms,
nose flattened, eyes bulging, or flower of the face, small mouth,
and while barely fit in it two strings of teeth sparse, wide and lips,
her lips blackened, very thick and pale copper color.

Short pin used, the cleric, sparse and curly, like the hair, although it is thicker and erect in tufts
on his head giving the same appearance assigned by the fable of Medusa. [29]

As a tailor who had set the tone in fashion, wearing denim pants Uribe adjusted legs, narrow top,
figuring an M italic, without the final link, and the indispensable leather straps. Instead of the
shoe bootie, then in general use, wearing thongs Cordovan, exposing feet that had nothing
to boys, and well shaped, because of showing too much bunions, were only bridge. However little would
prevent in favor of Uribe looks, no doubt it was the kindest of the tailors, very ceremonious
and if not paid on the ability of your scissors. He was married to a mulatto like him high, thick,
unwrapped, who at home at least, liked to go both legs, dragging
the satin slipper, and to teach more than what suited decency, back
and plump and glistening shoulders.

Began the afternoon of one of the last days of October. Up and down many carriages wagons and
carts the narrow streets of the Wall, perhaps the busiest of the city as the most populous central
and be all stores of various kinds. The noise of the wheels and the horses' feet on the stones,
sounded like continuous thunder inside open houses to the winds. Not infrequently clashed against
each other, and obstructed step for a long time. In such a case, the thunder of carriages and the
voices were happening the suits from the road and rickshaw pullers,
without regard or respect for the ladies.

The transient walk, if I wanted to be trampled by horses or crushed against the walls of the
Bocines houses with projections of the wheel hub, had to take shelter in shops until it cleared
the road.

On the evening of which we speak now, there was one of those frequent collisions between chitin occupied
by three young ladies, coming down, and a cart loaded with two boxes of sugar, up. Force clashed
with opposing hubs of both vehicles, the result of which the second wheel up first and came by
his rays, yielding one. The shock two carriages were almost across the street, the chitin in
the rear to the door Uribe's tailor shop, which penetrated the head of the mule cart. Carry
On, which philandering had been sitting at one of the boxes of sugar, with a whip in his right
hand, lost his balance and hit the mud and stones of the street a terrible his side.

And this man, African by birth, as well as the other, black, Havana,
rather than come each in his respective vehicle in order to undo the
mess and to facilitate passage with dreadful curses and insults are
rammed each other, blind with fury wild.

No was that they knew were at odds and had to avenge past wrongs, but being the two slaves,
oppressed and mistreated by their masters forever, with no time or means to meet their passions,
they hated to death purely by instinct and vented that anger was owned, at the first opportunity
presented to them. In vain the ladies of chitin, very startled, screamed to the sky, and most of
them repeatedly threatened to coachman with a harsh punishment if he did not give up the fight
and took care of the restive horses. But the fighters, in their anger and lashes rain that was
dumped, not heard word. Then the Spanish shops, tailoring officers, all looking out at the
door in his shirtsleeves, increased noise and confusion with his spokesmen and laughter, signs
of joy to some who witnessed the fight.

In this, a poor man came in through a door degustation of tailoring, to avoid the carriage wheels,
and leaving the other arm extended above the fallen bellow and came off the comb tile head
of the youngest of the girls, thus the long braid of her hair abounds developed and disentangling
all, over his back with silky, shiny waves which Totí wings.

She gave a cry and put both hands to the head, at which time, José
Dolores Pimienta, so far as spectator others, made an exclamation
of surprise, "murmured the name of"

Virgin of bronze ' and jumped on the thief, or rather on the dam,
which had carried her in triumph. Achieved claw throw, but was brittle
as hawksbill and was, moreover, nicely set, is I was shattered in
his hand only thing he could return to his grieving and frightened
owner. A confusion for the thief escaped, though none other than the
official tailor lie had stopped at that occurrence. However, the cry
of it, their action generous when the generality of the spectators
thought only fun, drew attention Uribe, who turned suddenly to him
and said:

- Are you crazy? Do you imagine that this also was Cecilia
Valdés? If I say that you see visions.

- No, answered dryly José
Dolores. I know what I'm saying