 Always doing it is
profitable, and the reward is many times less I thought that he could do and what they lost in
many benefits, one is thankful, is still more useful that damage of all those lost.

Infante Montaner found the security at the port, what gift they gave for their livelihoods, just before
the Genoese have helped, although he was with the same interest and enjoyment.

CHAPTER LIV.

Pass the army to Macedonia.

Paragraph field Montaner, Berenguer de Entenza dead, and Fernan Jimenez fled left alone Rocafort absolute
lord and master of everything, and so was moving to his taste and whim determinations across
the board. The resolution was taken among all the captains prior to go aside of prisons, was
to rush to Cristopol and become strong in him, as they did in Gallipoli and have the two provinces
of Thracia and Macedonia neighbors to make their entries. Seemed at first easy the company, because
they believed the Greeks get neglected, and no time to be prevented, and no doubt they thought
went well, if the road does not stop four days to avenge their particular grievances and passions
with which the Greeks had space and place a lot, not only for defense, but also to offend them,
and finishes, whether between Greeks were men of courage and care.

The delay of executions in war is very harmful, and very useful any alacrity, which cut a lot one
day, one hour and even less time, large sets and sometimes lost.

Rocafort after he learned that the City was put on defense, it was decided to move to close
of Cristopol which is the maritime part of Rhodope mountains, and
do not stop, in attacking the place.

The next day all the field passed the strait, not without great distress, because the road
was harsh, many backgrounds, and children, women and patients. The Greeks, but warned the
path that led the Catalans, they could not or dared not daring to step impedilles.

Crossing the Rhodope mountain, down to the fields of Macedonia about eight thousand men service
among all nations, large enough army to any company, whether the mood was united, and Berenguer's
death had not made odious Rocafort, even to his own friends, because since then he vanished and they
were offended, and at last fall were found in the middle of the province of Macedonia powerful
enemy towns and have not abused the war, but the damage from Thracia its neighboring province, they
served as a deterrent, as a precaution in the Cities, and reap the fruits of the season. Careful
because the Catalans to put your seat for this winter off somewhere, ran all the earth, recognizing
that we can occupy positions, and pick up supplies and provisions bought with blood, and money.
Lately, after having done great damage throughout the Province, became strong in the ruins of
ancient Casandria, one of the best positions throughout the province, being neighbor to the
sea, and all of that out fertile region and peaceful, for the many
breasts, and tickets to the sea and where it easily, or at less with
more comfort than any other place, could do to land tickets inside,
and have to Thessalonica head of the province in continuous fear of
damage.

CHAPTER LV.

Prison of the Infante Don Fernando in Negroponte.
Infante left the Isle of Tarsus with Ramon Montaner and ordered to
be handed Montaner the best gallery that was the one who called Spanish.
With these four galleries, a log armed Montaner and a boat was sailing
along the coast of Thrace and Macedonia, to the port Almiro