 The pauses will be more
or less long, according to the response that was expressed or presumed.)

No:
what we've done so far can not be followed.

A sneak mom in walk, on the street, making accomplice to Dona Rita, I will not say nothing to
you but very occasionally to time. Talking and journaling would be very ugly. You yourself
think ill of me. The people who see us mutter. Mom would come to know and scold a lot and every
reason. (Pause). Well, I'm glad with all my heart that you are determined to be present as before.
That is what is right and fair.

What? ... I dare not answer that. I do not quite understand this machinery. I fear that women
from Central and hear me laugh. (Another pause.)

Well since you insist, as so earnestly requested, there is no choice. I'll say, although I hear.
Repeat what I said three or four times, when they cast migajitas bread to ducks and pond fish
Retiro: for you the migajitas of my heart it will be all yours, if
you pay me with love.

(Pause.)

Is that a lot of precipitation. Mom will say, if not denied, that we should try that before; to
ask me in seguidita, out of the blue, is stabbed rogue ...

Flatterer.

By what my eyes are the rogues that give the stabbing? How you are the wounded? Well, I declare
that the rogue you are. If the Father Gonzalez had not even suspected you're evil and incurable
disease that would cause me, I sure did not presented her daughter's
confession, that I am ...

There'll see if, as you predicted, my illness
incurable this is said with all truth "that no ill wind that blows
no good.

" Goodbye, enough talk.

Afraid to surprise us. Introduce yourself your mom and come home soon. Mom receives twice a
week.

TABLE TWO

The same decoration of the table first. Manolita alone, entering the room the phone and closing
to enter.

(In order not to repeat quotations, it relies on the ability of those who read or recite the soliloquy
to distinguish the sense, when the public goes Manolita as if speaking to himself, and when on the
phone and speaks for him).

Today I am very poor health. I am furious. Mama, do not believe in
me wrong, it started quietly to their gathering.

As I ate at the table, a little mom had to go hungry and come for dinner. Threaten me great pain
and work and should restore the strength.

Me not wait to talk to the narcissistic. I have a thousand things
to tell you many sad news from yesterday to today!

It is useless to present to Mom. It would be very badly received. But ... (Ring the ten on
the clock on the mantelpiece). Ten. I'll talk.

Will cold narcissist? What a voice so hoarse it today! Sares ... All right. Egeneto. But what
a voice so hoarse!

- I do you mean, narcissistic, what those words mean convoluted? ...

Lying
seems to be as concise language and in just four words spout so things.
So the words are Greek and means "You are an angel came down from
heaven to earth, took a gentle body and you became Manolita. "

I
suspect you are joking. How can they say so much just four words ...?

What
is paraphrase, not translation? Then you will understand. But enough
of paraphrase. I'm not for them or for me to throw compliments.

I'm
desperate. So desperate I am, I am inclined to believe that I have
not had to pretend disease, but actually I'm sick. The doctor has
believed and has left a prescription long, Dona Rita have read and
comply. The doctor will be nonsense ...

Oh, my God! What fun is this
heavy? How narcissistic do not you answer