 Answer
me.

- Also is from God, because God made gold and silver ... Tickets do
not know ... But also, too.

- What I say, Nina, is that things are
of that is ... and everybody has except we ... Aha! hurry up, I feel
weak.

Where do I put the medicine? ... And: are on the dresser. I will take a ballot of salicylate
before eating ... Oh, what job I get these legs! Instead of taking them to me, I have to pull them.
(Rising with great effort.) As I would walk with crutches. But you see what God does with me? If
this sounds fun! I was sick of sight, legs, head, kidney, everything except the stomach. Deprived
of resources, I have to digest like a vulture.

- So does me. But I'll take it the wrong way, ma'am.

Blessed be the Lord, that we gives the greatest good of our bodies: hunger Blessed! ".

VII

Already in his early sixties, the unhappy for so many reasons
Zapata Francisca Juarez, known in the years that their deplorable
decline by Dona Paca, a dry, laconic and plebeian familiarity.

Behold how the glories and Highnesses stop this world, and what was pending touring the said lady,
rolling to deep poverty, since dogs tied sausage, for the years 59 and 60, until the alms are
living unconsciously, between agony, pain and shame thousand. Countless examples of these falls
offer us large populations, more than any that of Madrid, where there is little habits of order,
but all the examples above the Dona Francisca Juarez, sad toy destination. Looks good these things
and the rise and fall of people in social life, it is great foolish to take the target to blame
for what is exclusive work of the characters themselves and temperaments, and good example is
Dona Paca, who in his own self from birth carrying the disruption of all things material. Born
in Ronda, his eyes became accustomed from childhood to the dizzy depressions, and when she
had nightmares, dreaming she fell to the profound depth of the crack is called Tajo. Those
born in Ronda head must have very strong and not suffer from dizziness or such thing, made to
look frightful abyss. But Dona Paca could not stand firm on the heights, instinctively tumble,
and his head was not good at it or the government of life, that is security of view in the moral
order.

Paquita Vertigo Juárez was a chronic condition since she was married very young, with D. Antonio
Maria Zapata, who was twice her age, intendant of the army, excellent person, comfortable position
for his home as the bride, who also owned much real estate account.

Zapata served in the Army of Africa, a division of Echagüe, and after Wad-Ras became the Address
field. Established marriage in Madrid, he lacked time to put Mrs. foot home in a frivolous
and flamboyant life, if he started the frame by adjusting the Vanities of income and wages, soon
got out of all bounds of prudence, and not long in coming delays, irregularities, debts. Zapata
ordenadísimo man was, but so he dominated his wife, who even made him lose his eminent qualities,
and how well knew how to manage the flows of the army, saw his men lost, forgotten art conservation.
Paquita did not set rates in elegant dress, or the luxury of table or continuous shaking dances
and meetings, or the wasteful whims. So notorious was and disorder, that Zapata, terrified, looking
to come the thunder fat, had to overcome drowsiness in which he had half his face, and began
to make numbers and want to set method and rationale in the government of his estate, but oh
sad fate of the family! when I was more engrossed man in his arithmetic, waiting for his salvation,
caught pneumonia and passed away life on Friday afternoon, leaving two young children: Antonito
and Obdulia.

Flow manager and owner of assets and liabilities, Francisca soon demonstrated his ineptitude to
manage these tangled issues, and next came, like worms in body corrupt, countless people who ate
it inside and out, devouring her mercilessly

.