 

I refer not repeated acts of the times we have found in these waters to the English engaged in fishery,
because the dam is enough that they did the day of the year March 10 earlier near the frigate
called the Mayo, about 34 to 35 degrees south, with other of the same nation were engaged in
this task, and recognizing the frigate Santa Sabina, and Perpetua, on the journey they had just
done to Montevideo, leading to VE I only go to demonstrate how different we can take advantage
of these utilities through the establishment of the Black River.

The attempt that just made D. Francisco de Medina, resident and trade in this city in the port
of San José, with the frigate called the Ventura, (and before May when it was in the the English)
gives us a true knowledge of the proportions that has that port. Without leaving him 50 whales
harpooned in a month. It is true that this laudable enterprise miscarried the poor quality of the
harpoons, and ineptitude of those operators.

Repeating the same attempts, repaired the causes that failed, it's all up, and with the aid that
clears the establishment of the Black River in the sale of its fruits, is easier and less burdensome
to the person concerned this fishery, and at the same moment as does need to from that port, without
touching on the Rio de la Plata, to journey with her cargo to those of Spain. The establishment
of the Black River will sustain and prosper with the output of its fruits, and through them
can be such fishing without the expense of maintaining other the smaller vessels that are
needed for it. The others that are more expensive and expenses, it is provided through their
cargoes, may engage in conduct salt Puerto de San José, or Black River to the capital of Buenos
Aires and Montevideo, and a same operations as an accessory, does this useful supply the province,
its abundance crossing convenience and benefit to salt meats that are lost in its massive campaign
by introducing this new market in Spain, Africa or other European Parages: for use only with the
much of our military and prisons will release, and gets to avoid extractions money that attracts
us to buy in the north, are to the benefit of the kingdom. Stakeholders in whaling will take advantage
of what you can pay them the first kind. The Buenos Aires natural populations and their neighbors
in the cattle MatAns to the collection of corambre have this new utility to increase their wages.
Owners can take perhaps by this means the costs of them free, and Black River are engaged in
work of the salt out and driving to the pier, which is another great support to their livelihood.
For these media has to go take the population increase, and perhaps, seeing the fruit to be drawn
from these new plantations, the Spanish extended their fisheries further south, and we discover
and provide some comfort and provides ports for ships arriving sail to Lima and back to promote
the establishment of San Julian, as experience has expressed its fruits can survive, and recognizing
the Strait of Magellan the accuracy you need and deserve, where all paths ensure there are plenty
of woods: circumstance credited adapted to people, without any evidence to the contrary cause
the effect of populations was Sarmiento, who could not have other result with method, forms and regulations
that attempt.

In Tierra del Fuego, which is composed of several islands, the year
of 1765, or 1766, was lost ship called the Conception of Escurruchea,
on the shores of one of them, about 14 miles the mouth of the Strait.

The crew was saved, made itself a pretty boat transport to transport their supplies to Buenos
Aires, where the Governor reported to D. Pedro Ceballos, that the Indians of this island had
been very human and compassionate, helping to pass timber for ship building, and assisting them
in all, with other features and those Parages news: all of which sent D. Pedro Ceballos an
exact relationship to the Court, and proposed establishing a colony on the island. But, having
been on the occasion that it was bought to the French the Falklands, had no effect this proposal.

That
these stories offer many people hope to survive in those areas, and be very useful to trade,
state and religion can not be doubted.

The latitude of 52 degrees and minutes, the pole, although very cold weather can not be compared with
The situation in Sweden, Denmark and Russia, which, being over 70,
not without grounds fertile and very abundant.

Love without the help of cattle, without the benefit of agriculture, without proof of the experiments,
fix and improve the quality of land, with knowledge of weather to use the work, and the effect of
its productions, is to shoot white eyes closed. Desert climates vary by the competition of people
and livestock that make a stable population. With the fires, wings and heat of the living, little by
little tuning the atmosphere, land and produces steam, which make it more benign and is attracted
to another fertility.

These are the principles and secure foundations, which have to sustain
and support a business so arduous, and some difficulties at the sight
of all have graduated from impossible.

The Black River establishment and promotion of whaling should be the sole agent that over time has
insensibly the raid and conquer.

On the day, which is committed to promoting this fishery for their
own profit have to see required, the duration, to keep a job or temporary
establishment in the port San Jose to repair his people from the weather,
and preserve foodstuffs, utensils and effects.

If this trade to join the salt, which abounds there is year-round occupancy. To They need oxen,
and the fresh meat would be very helpful and inexpensive. For all offers proportion those areas:
promoting the raising of livestock, may abound over time in terms take some fruit of their hides and
meat, because there will be easy and cheaper this trade, the abundance and excellent salt salt
flats, and be of superior quality such meat to the fields of Montevideo and Buenos Aires,
so their salty pastures. This is another incentive, added to the background, a population ready
to make that useful port for our ships sailing to the South Sea in arrivals, as the immediacy
Black River and stock can be cooled as needed, to prosper in this way navigations, closing the door
to the English why have easy entry into this river, and consequently in the whole kingdom of Peru,
cutting off the progress they make, and can forward with the lights that we have taken these important
discoveries in the fishing the whale, and all this at greater length I have explained to him that
my Lord Vertiz the memorandum is dated October 13, to which I refer.

If our Spanish arrived to establish the trade with accessories that are proposed in terms which the
Crown to produce the same or greater interest out of Portugal the island of Santa Catalina,
by granting temporary licenses to companies established to this end may be the most effective
and proportionate way to go recognizing the coast and Strait, and
advancing stocks.

Optional only the real power to grant temporary or permanent license to use of these fisheries, as seas
belonging to his dominions. Eyes open knowledge the great practical value of this trade, will attract
interest to their use.

This is the fruit that can take the crown, not by the interests that rotates Portugal, but by the survey
and those populations most advanced Parages south she cares about or interested. At that excels in
the most useful, and we show port insurance for the shelter of the boats, offering people, these
costs compénsesele the granting of any privilege or license to the fishery in the time it seems
regular, formal contractual obligation and mortgages. Unansele those graces which allows the real
protection and sovereignty, and thus, without squandering the royal purse, get the These wastes
to useful Rey domains, preparing a means to attract true knowledge many heathen souls occupy
in the propagation of the faith and usefulness of State and provide different benefits to navigation
and trade.

While the Magellan Strait and islands of Fire is important to us a true and accurate recognition by if
you allow ports that provide us passage to the South Sea, no be neglected the Gulf of San
Jorge, which is located at 45 degrees and minutes to look with the
indifference that so far.

The recognition that in March 1780 did the pilots of the expedition which came to control D. Antonio
Viedma, to set in San Julian, only recognized with the launch of
the packet boat San Sebastian, about 40 miles from the northern side,
pulling the west of the gulf.

For and news reports are from practical Indians their surroundings, ensuring that to this course
comes very close to the mountains, where some streams draining water sweet, and half the land to
them, is the way of the Indians of San Julian to Tucamelel river, or of the Incarnation. This
is evidenced by the daily recognition Villarino Black River, which relates the journey they
had just done to that river near those expressed Indians. If the English recognize and take
hold of the Gulf, would have input for him to Valdivia and other towns of the kingdom of Peru,
and he could easily be established without Our news. Abundant large number of whales, which place provides
the fishing greater advantages than others. These grounds, that to be true express their importance,
encourage stakeholders in the fishery to its recognition, we must disabuse, and give a true view
of the importance of the gulf, and communication that is feared. The fact is that the Indians
of those Parages transiting the Black River by the way you say, and from this river go to
the borders of Buenos Aires.

All of these utilities will attract to us the survival and development of the population of Rio
Black. She has to shake hands at the port of San José with its fruits and cattle, and as scale,
such aid must go to other towns, discovering the ways that pass the
Indians, their watery, campaigns and mountains to the Straits, because
of all there is news and has only missed the previous ministry, the
heat required in such cases, that in time the two Super-mayors have
been on their committees, have but recognized the principal of this
continent.

The internment of trade for Valdivia, Chile, Mendoza and other Parages by the Black River, would
be very useful for smaller gap compared to that of Buenos Aires, for the help of navigation, and because
they have other amenities that can make softer asperities the road.

The more enemies opposed the establishment of the Black Rio admit
the usefulness of this hospitalization, but are impossible, speaking
with such courage and security, as if they had measured inch by inch
on those roads, and had learned with a practical knowledge of navigation
River.

No need sugeto whom he should confess the justice of instruction and superior talent, that supports
and sustains the same impossibility, and they assure me it has become
clear in a paper that gave the government greater, the more steps
that I could not get.

Would be most useful These challenges were reciprocal and mutual knowledge of them: for the contentious
and rational opposition is the discovery of the truth which is that crave and seek those who
seek the wisdom. If so many opinions to be taken to give ground with the establishments, that is, to
deter the King and his Ministers of the importance of them, they
had first gone to the Super-intendant, to inform its view and respond,
then it would have had more news and knowledge that shed light the
whole truth.

For these reasons, the aforementioned request and feel like paper, they are matters should not be
booked as much mystery about sugetos they have earned the trust of King for the performance of
this important commission, mostly when it seems has run between people who have no connection with
these materials, which I notice those points most essential for this role, though confusing,
of which I will to meet and demonstrate As I proposed.

Two are the most powerful objections to this individual seems to show, in which supports and
maintains the grounds of their opposition. The first, which made navigation difficult Villarino
in recognition of Black River to the Catapuliché, where she arrived, she herself demonstrates
its irrelevance to trade. The second grade of impassable mountain ranges, from that place to
Valdivia.

For the same operations, expressed in log Villarino, this individual demonstrates the Black River
inaccessible in its navigation. If we would have to be to that point, at that station, to that
state in which they found and navigated the river Villarino, it is
necessary to confess futility, but this varies with the time difference,
and repeated tests over give a true view of the channels, reefs, waterfalls
and river flows, showing how to overcome them with other aid, seems
somehow strange that so vividly, without waiting for other than practical
knowledge, is useless to condemn and fail for a case that both interest
to our happiness.

Villarino navigation was made at the station opposite. The forty-five days we stopped at the Choelechel,
food waiting to be continued, we delayed the time, So when he arrived at the confluence with Diamond
makes the Black River, had fallen water, in terms that caused the
hardship of his voyage.

This lack discovered jumps and reefs, and their maturity was the greatest difficulty. If he
had come to this recognition for the month of July, which is the time that begin growing, and
last until March, would be less difficult and softer, not so many breaks were discovered and
reefs, and carcasses would not cause so vehement currents caused constriction of them, as with
most water extends the river and avoids the momentum of its effects. With the help of horses
or mules (that could not fend Villarino, the risks that were expected of the Indians, who are
the attractiveness of their invasions) was smoothed and facilitated navigation and throwing them
to the towpath, falling all the work of the sailors on the strength
and vigor of these animals, removing and opening the way for the banks
of the river to do useful these operations.

To take a true knowledge of all this, it is necessary that the different experiences seriousness
of the case he asks: We must not defer to the relationship of a hasty and obscure tentative,
which may be misleading for many reasons.

Discoverer is characteristic of all ponder the difficulties and work that has prevailed to to assert
their merit, and even without fail the sincerity and good faith, those first impressions in
humans often cause different looks in proportion to the affection in which he is caught. Would
not it strange that he and his Villarino, the loneliness of those spot, lack of communication,
and others perhaps, I produgesen an affection or passion hateful in his imagination soar to
lofty mountains of difficulty accessible hills or ravines.

When they discovered the Black River, the first pilot of the royal fleet, D. Manuel Brunel, and
infantry lieutenant D. Pedro Garcia, the San Antonio Zumaca Oliveyra, such was the impression
they caused the bar, which retreated to the port of San José, and
gave for impossible input.

Villarino was, and proved otherwise, and on the day it is so easy, windy the bow on board have
entered the launches. If we had been to the decision and inform sugetos those we would not have been
a disappointment so clear.

Black river navigation presents is not impossible, but difficult: it is fitting to all principles, since
the best facilities that we despise in the day, at its source would
cost hard work and maturity.

The time and the practical demonstration of the importance of this post and walk, subsisting
the establishment of the Black River, are to give light to start preparing and paving the horror,
much difficulty as it appears, extending its upstream populations, which will serve to your comfort
level, prepare more interest to trade; contain the audacity Indians
in insults and robberies that experience the frontiers of Buenos Aires,
will be more solid foundation on which to found their hopes of reducing
these infidels inhabitants of the vast and fertile lands that make
up the skirts of Huechuhuehuem and ranges, to Concepcion, Chile, whose
industries benefit operations wool, ponchos and blankets that make
the cultivation of agriculture in which we imitate, fixed population,
but widely dispersed from their homes, we offer the most extensive
and happy ideas for the exaltation of our holy faith, and prosperity
of the State and the day may come that imitation we laugh at these
apparent difficulties.

To meet the second objection, would need all of the evidence and rationale
it gives the author because the first acquired some news that I got
the diary Villarino was in navigation.

But this, if it is true that given by inaccessible mountains by those spot, I can not hit upon
them, because they do not have to draw from their vast comprehension, science and literature,
if not a disappointment in the physical, that can reason and be dealt with the most uncouth
rustic.

It is true that the ranges are inaccessible for many Parages. The Indians of San Julian answer,
that from the Straits, pulling the northern part, they are even for the brutes: noticed the
same Super-intendant D. Antonio de Viedma when he recognized the Santa Cruz River to its source
[A] but should not be understood with the rigor that the author thinks, because only the is
accessible by road we use for Mendoza to Chile. They are also passable from Huechuhuehuem, or
Catapuliché, on the Portillo, the Indians and cattle driving. The give evidence to this claim
is the standard reply of the Indian inhabitants of those spot, with
whom I have asked repeatedly prolixity, news of which went checking
with the findings of Villarino, and to be found near the river Diamond,
livestock cattle and horses that the Indians had stolen them from
the borders of Buenos Aires, to sell to Valdivia, where the consignment
had been offered a year earlier, and as for having reported these
infidels, when he came to Catapuliché, who had fallen Christian Valdivia,
as a day Road, where he was, to try and adjust the purchase of it,
giving individual signs of person [B].

All these tests are indeed his own: those of the author must be of ideas and references, which inequality
is evident in the faith of a justification which is supported so legally. But congratulations, I have
to grant equality, which do not: in this case, we should not have happened to Valdivia to examine
and verify those quotes that were a true testament of truth?

But what was it made? Differ by a whole to the authority of the author, as if the inaccessible
mountains, which was his imagination and discourse, were true.

Of course there is evidence advanced for and against the inaccessible and transit of ranges by
Catapuliché, Huechuhuehuem to Valdivia, we should be in favor of the latter, Unless a physical
disappointment sincere and true people do see the opposite. No we must know that nature gives
us two ways that I have proposed by water and by land to the plaza and the kingdom of Chile, at the
proper time for not only I can navigate as shown at the place where he Villarino, but the gap Huechum-lauquen,
or limit the source of the river, which is a more distant day's journey. From this site Valdivia
to throw the Indians three days by mule, by the harshness of the mountains, traffic very short,
compared to half that by Mendoza to Chile, crossing us less expenses and other amenities.

Since the establishment of Black River to the lagoon-lauquen Huechum land, its distance not even
reach 160 leagues to the top of Diamond to open way too comfortable
carts along the same river, which washes the largest livestock rescue
and relief.

A site can be conceptualized 120 leagues: from him at this gap 40, and from this to Valdivia 20,
so that the whole distance being 180 miles, the 120 is very smooth turnpike road and comfortable,
the 40 with time maybe you will in the same provisions, applicable to soften some missteps, and
the remaining 20 is the only bad thing is that travel. But this, as explained by Indians,
not those aviaries and cliffs to the Mendoza Chile. Compare, then, the increase of this from Buenos Aires,
which went from 500 leagues, painful and risky for the crossing of
the pampas, of water scarcity and Indians, with short soft and can
be opened by the Black River, and the safety of these infidels, taken
its main avenues and places, that is another issue that matters most
to the prosperity Buenos Aires, as I will show in place, expressed
through the populations.

I've talked to Promote the concept to what I discovered in the Black River to the Plaza de Valdivia;
regardless of the recognition of Diamond Rio, or Sanquel, which made observation Villarino the
pilot, at the confluence of this river with the Black, 38 degrees 44 minutes and other combinations
and news, there is reason to hope, has with the Tunuyan, which passes by the city of Mendoza, and to be certain
they discover equal proportions.

We arrived as the most important point, and that happiness lies across the province, this is
to repair the destruction caused by livestock in the vast Indian
campaigns and borders Buenos Aires, in book to those who disbelieve
so many deaths, robberies and captivity, to take advantage the vast
fields that mediate this capital Black River, where you can expand
and encouraged raising cattle, which must be one of the branches has
to sustain this facility and support of others.
