 I can not, no ... My conscience revolts ...

- Let the riots, that we are here troops. Or you take away the pesetilla, or me anger, as God
is my father. D. Bottle, do paperwork, you're more beggar the inventor of hunger. Or do you
need more money, because it has more to Bernard? In this case, I can not give it, because I
have not ... But do not be lilac, D. Bottle or is made of honey, which the Lizard of Bernarda eat it
alive, if not charged forty. For a customer like you, of the aristocracy, not denied housing
because they need a pose, three nights, four nights ... Frasquito Plántese good, with a hundred
thousand pairs, and will Bernarda how bends the ears ... It gives you four real account, y.
.. to pour sleep peacefully on the bed.

"

O Ponte was not convinced, or convinced of how good it would be for him the possession of the
peseta he hated the physical act of reaching out and receiving alms. Strengthened his argument Benina
saying: "And since the child is so shy, and does not dare to her
employer, even giving account of the singing, I will speak to Bernard,
I would say that does not fight, nor rush ... Come on, take what you
give, and no more cold blood me, Mr. D. Bottle.

"

And without giving him time to make further protests and negative, took her hand, put it currency,
cerrole force fist and ran away. Ponte made no move to return money, or throw. He remained standing
and silent, watched as the vision Benina vanishes in a flash of light, and keeping in his left
hand the peseta, with the right took out his handkerchief and wiped
his eyes, he cried horribly.

Cried irritation senile eye, and also of joy, admiration and gratitude.

Benina still took over an hour to reach the Imperial Street, passed because before that of
The Ruda to do their shopping. These had to be on credit, because he had concluded money. Ended
up in his house after two hours is certainly not untimely: other days had come later, but this
is the angry lady. Depended on being right or wrong received from the streak of humor that Doña Paca
picked up at the time of entry. That afternoon, Unfortunately, poor Mrs. Ronda was one of its most
violent irritability crisis nervous. His genius was sudden eruptions, sometimes determined by
any setback small, sometimes by mysteries of the body difficult to appreciate. This is that
before of Benin through the door, threw the Dona Francisca dash: "Do you think they are these hours
to come? I have to talk to D. Romualdo, to tell me when to salt your home ... I bet you now you
pick up the lie that you went to see the child, and you had to feed him ... Do you think I'm an idiot,
and I believe your lies? Shut your mouth ... I do not ask explanations, neither need, nor
I, you know that believe anything you say, liar, tangled '.

Aware of the nature of the lady knew that the worst Benina system against outbursts of anger
was contradicting explanations to give, open up and defend themselves. Doña Paca not admit reasoning,
and thoughtful they were. The more logical and fair were the clarification
the contrary, she sulked more.

Not infrequently Benina, innocent, had to file guilty of the offenses alleged against the
lady, because doing so would calm down soon.

"See how I have right? - Continued the lady, who when put in such a state, was of the more unbearable
than you can imagine -. You shut ... by silence, grants. Then it is true what I say, I am always
aware ... It is what I thought: you have not gone home Obdulia, and that's the path. God knows
where you've been ping. But do not care, I'll find out ... Keep me here alone, dying of hunger!
... What a morning I've actually happen! I've lost count of those who have come for the shops peppers,
amounts that have not already paid your disorder ... Because the
truth, I do not know where You put you the money ... Responds, women
... even defend yourself, that if everything you give no answer, I
seem to still tell you little.

"

Benina humbly repeated the above: that it had completed later at the
home of D. Romualdo, that D. Carlos Trujillo, entertained the sea
of ??time that had gone after the Calle de la Cabeza ...

"God knows,
God knows what you've done, correntona, and what sites you've been
... Let's see, to see if you smell a wine.

"

Smelling breath, broke into shouts of disgust and horror: "Remove, take off there, drunk. You reek
of brandy.

- I have not tasted, ma'am, I can believe. "

Doña Paca insisted that in those crisis situations became his suspicions, and his stubbornness forged
his conviction.

"I can believe it - repeated Benina -. I have not taken more than a glass of wine that gave me Mr.
de Ponte.

- I 'is giving me a bad feeling that M. de Ponte, who is an old fox
and green and very rascal.

Kind, as the plants you too silent ... Do not think you fool me,
hypocrite ... After aging, it gives you the solution, and litter of
brown peaks.

What things come, Lord, and what derangement drag the damn service! ... You shut up, then it
is true. No, if even I deny not convince me, because when I tell you one thing, it's because I know ...
I have I ...». eye

Without giving time for the offender to explain, came by the following record:

"And you tell me, woman? What made you welcome my relative D. Carlos? What? Is good? Do not burst
yet? No need to say anything because, as if it had been me your secret
behind a curtain, I know all that talk ... Do not I right?

Well I'm telling you what happens to me is my damn habit of not keeping
accounts.

No one will PASA of that folly. To each his own theme, the folly of my relative is to fix everything
with numbers ... Has enriched them, robbing the Treasury and the parishioners, and with them
wants to life to save his soul, and the poor, we recommend the medicine of the numbers that
it does not save him or us any good. With what success? Was this what you said?

- Yes, ma'am. Looks like you were hearing.

- And after crush with that gibberish of debit and credit, has given you a handout for me ... Ignore
my dignity rises up to receive it.

I see him as he opened the drawers wants and does not want to take the taleguito in having
the bills, hiding to avoid being you could see, I see him rubbing the pouch, store carefully, I
see you turn the key ... And very dirty off-hook with a crap.

I can not specify the amount he has given you for me, because it is so difficult to anticipate
the calculations of avarice, but of course I assure you, without fear of contradiction, that
has not reached the forty dollars. "

The look on his face Benina hearing this can not be described. The lady, carefully watched, pale,
and said after a brief pause:

"It's true: I've run a lot.

Forty, no, but even so stingy and mean it man, there will be dropped from twenty-five dollars. Less
than that will not admit it, Nina, I can not admit.

- Madam, you are delusional - said the other firmly planted in reality -. Mr. D. Carlos has not given
me anything, which is called nothing. To begin next month give you an allowance of two dollars
per month.

- Liar, swindling ... Do you think me fool me with your clutter? Well, well, I do not bother me ...
I have worsening account, and I am not to take tantrums ... Understood, Nina, understood.
There you will understand with your conscience. I wash my hands and leave it to God give you
your due.

- What, ma'am?

- Join now simple and Marirramos kitten. Can not you see me immediately
and I guess calo your fabrications?

Come on, woman, confess, do not try to add to infamy deception.

- What, ma'am?

- Well, you've had a bad temptation ... Confiésamelo, and I forgive you ... Do not want to declare?
For the worse for you and your conscience, because you bring out the colors in the face. Want
to see?

For twenty-five drives that you gave to me D. Carlos, you have given to this Frasquito Ponte
to pay their debts, and go to lunch, catering, and buy shirts, ointment,
and a stick again ... You see, you see, bribonaza, how everything
you guessed it, and me not worth your concealment.

If I know more than you. Now you have been given to protect the deli Tenorio, and I want more
than me, and he now serves me no, and you feel sorry for him and me, how much you want, damned me.
"

Mrs. broke to mourn, and Benin and answer felt like such impertinence
giving lashes like a crafty child, seeing the compassion tears.

I knew that crying was the completion of the cholera crisis, sedation of access, rather, that
such happened, it was best to let the laughter, bringing the dispute
into the realm of delicious mockery.

"Yes, Mrs. Dona Francisca - said hugging -.

Did you think when they had gone that boyfriend as sorcerer and as salt shakers had to leave
me in need, without giving hair?

- Do not think you fooled me with your little jokes, swindling, flattering ...-- said the lady,
and unarmed and defeated -. I assure you I do not care what you did, because the money Trujillete
I had to take ... I'd rather die of hunger or stain my hands with
him ... Give, give it to whoever you want, ingratona, and leave me
alone, let me die I missed you and around the world.

- Neither you
nor I will die so soon, because we still give a lot of war - he said
maid, preparing with great care to feed.

- We'll see what crap you
bring me today ... Show me the basket ... But, daughter, do not you
ashamed to bring to your loved these filthy scraps?

... What else? Cauliflower ... I have already plague-stricken with your cauliflowers, they
give me fart, and I am repeating three days ... In short, what we
in the world than to suffer?

Dame soon these comistrajos ... What brought you eggs? And know that not happened, and not very
fresh.

- Eat what you give without grumbling, that putting so many objections to the food that God da,
is offended and aggrieved.

- Well, my dear, whatever you want. Eat what you have, and give thanks to God. But like You too, I'm
sorry to see you so busy, desviviéndote for others, and forgotten yourself and your body relief.
Sit with me, and tell me what you did today. "

In the afternoon, ate two, sit-to kitchen table. Doña Paca, sighing all his soul, between bites
another, expressed in this way the ideas bubbling in his mind:

"Tell me, Nina, among so many strange things, incomprehensible, what's in the world, what would
be a medium, a form ... I do not know how to say, a spell by which
we could spend from scarcity to abundance, by which all that the world
has a place in many hands greedy, come to ours who have nothing?

-
What does the lady?

What if it could happen in the blink of an eye go from poor to rich, and saw a mean, our house
full of money, and everything God created?

- That I mean. If miracles are true, why is not the case one for us, that it We deserved what
we got?

- Who says it does not happen, we do not have this outcome? - Said Benin, in whose mind emerged
suddenly, with strong relief and extraordinary plasticity, the spell Almudena had taught him to
seek and obtain all the goods of the earth.

XX

Thereby took possession of his mind the idea and images expressed by the blind African that point
was to tell her mistress the wonderful method of plotting and to bring the King baixo terra.
But fearing that the secret would be less effective the more you disclose, contúvose in his
loquacity, and only said it could be that of the overnight tuck them through the gates of fortune.
At bedtime with Doña Paca, for sleeping in the same room, thought
everything was a potato Almudena, and take it more seriously of nonsense.

He wanted to sleep, but could not, he turned his mind to give entertainment to the idea, thinking
it might be carrying, and if efforts made by waste more tenaciously the mischievous idea he
got into the brain.

"What is lost by trying it? - It was said, wrapping up in bed -. May not be true ... But and
if it were? There were many lies then truths became fists! ... For what that's me, I'm out
to try, and tomorrow, with the first money I take, buy the lamp of clay, without speaking.
The story is that I do not know how to treat an item without talk ... Anyway, I'll make the
deaf ... Then look for the stick, even without speaking ... I need to teach the Muslim prayer,
and I learn it without a verb ...». escape me

After a brief sleep, woke up believing strongly in the parlor next had a Seret large basket or
very large, very large, filled with diamonds, Rubilar, pearls and sapphires ... In the dark
room could see nothing, but that those riches were there was no doubt.

He took the box of matches ready to light, to recreate your eyes on the treasure, but not wake
Doña Paca, whose sleep was very light, left to morning the examination of so many wonders ... After
a while, soon to laugh at his enthusiasm, saying: "Well, I'm not little purple! ... It is too
early to bring this ...». At dawn, awoke to the barking of two white big dog came out from under
the bed, felt the doorbell, he fell to the ground and ran in his shirt open, secure calling a gentleman
of the King assistant or a long beard and dressed in green ... But there was nobody; there was no
living thing on the door.

Arreglose to leave, having breakfast the lady, and taking the first scan to home, and at seven and left
with his basket on his arm and Imperial Street. As he had no cent or where he came, he went to San
Sebastian, thinking down the road in D. Romualdo and his family, since both speak of those gentlemen,
and both comment and describe them had come to believe in its existence. "I'm gill Go! - They
said -. I to this invention D. Romualdo, and now it seems to me that is a person EFET and can
help me. There is no D. Romualdo the begging blessed, and that I, and see if you drop something,
with permission Caporal. " The day was good to get him, and said Pulido was the first funeral
and wedding in the sacristy. The bride was the niece of a minister pleniputenciano, and the groom
... thing newspapers.

Benina took his place, and was released with two cents who gave a lady. Its companions tried to
sing it for what he had called D. Carlos, but only answered with evasions and half-words. Casiana
Assuming that Mr. Trujillo had tried Sena Benina with the leftover food to give your home, treated
her with courtesy, no doubt by calling the party.

At last thing the funeral was not subdivided further, and if the bodorrio were run something
else, went so pobretería other quadrants, and there was such a din and confusion, which took
about five, and others stayed in albis. Seeing out the bride, so dolled up, and Ladies and gentlemen
of his company, fell upon them like a cloud of locusts, and the sponsor I squeezed his coat, and
he even muss his hat. Labour cost the good lord shake the terrible plague, and had no choice
but to throw a handful of pennies in the yard. The more agile made a killing, the most awkward crawled
avail. The Caporale and Elisha trying to impose order, and when the bride and groom and all the support
they got in the car was near the church miserable mob, grunting and kicking. Dispersed, and again met
with swirls buzzers. It was like a riot, defeated by his own fatigue.

The last shot was, "You fucked more ... I have removed mine ... here there is no decency ... how
rogue ...».

Mockery, that was the most they swipe, missed toads and snakes of
his mouth, attracting the minds of all the crew against Caporale and
Elisha.

Finally, Police intervened, threatening to pick you up if not silent, and this was like the
word of God.

The intruders made off, the house got into the passage. Benina took all Day campaign, including
funeral and wedding, 22 cents, and Almudena, 17.

Casiano and Elisha were said to have taken peseta and a half each.

When he retired Moroccan together blind and Benin, lamenting his evil shadow, ended, as before,
to the Plaza del Progreso, and sat at the foot of the statue to deliberate
about the challenges and drowning that day.

He no longer knew which saint entrusted Benina: with the alms of
the day did not have to start because Eral forced to pay some deudillas
establishments in the Rue de la Rue, to sustain the credit and power
trick few more days.

Almudena said to him that he was in absolute inability to promote it; the most he could do
was give the dogs in the morning and at night so take could the rest of the day, asking in its
usual place, street of the Duke of Alba, along the Civil Guard barracks. He rejected the old
woman's generosity, for he too needed live and feed, to which said the Moroccan coffee with
a bread crumb on the Cross Rastro, had enough to pull up the night. Loath to accept the offer,
raised Benina avert the issue of the King of baixo terra, showing trust and faith that easily
be explained by the great need it was. The mysterious stranger and seeks his proselytes in the
realm of despair, inhabited by the souls who find solace anywhere.

"Right now - said the poor woman - I want to buy things. Today is Friday, and Saturday morning
do the test.

- Compressed you things, let alone ...

- Of course, without saying a word. What is lost by doing the test? And tell me another thing:
Why has be precisely at midnight? ".

The blind man answered yes, saying the rules and conditions necessary for effective spell,
and tried to fix Benina everything in your memory.

"I know - he said at last - that'll be all day in the fountain of the Duke of Alba -. If I forget something,
I'll be asking you, as I teach prayer. Now that I must be hard to learn, especially if I put
it in Christian language, what is in yours, son of my soul, I do not know how to compose myself
for not wrong.

- If you quivoquiar, King not vinyl. "
Discouraged with these difficulties, separose Benina of your friend,
I had to hurry gather some bitches to complete what the obligations
of that day needed, can not expect anything and credit, began to ask
at the corner of the street San Millán, next to the door of the cafe
of the Naranjeros, pestering passers with the story of their misfortunes:
they had just left the hospital, her husband had fallen a scaffold,
which had not eaten in three weeks, and other things that left their
hearts. Something was fishing the unhappy, and had caught something
else, if not look like a fucking there chilli that enjoined to take
her to the basement of the prevention of America, if not Long cool
wind. Ocupose then buy the gadgets for the spell, company sick cumbersome,
because everything had to be made by signs, and went home thinking
it would be great difficulty making the devilish sorcery there but
found out the lady. Against this had not recourse but to include that
D. Romualdo had been very ill, and leave velarle night, going home
Almudena ... But the presence of Petra could be an obstacle: the danger
that a witness preclude incredulous thing, added the serious drawback
that, if successful happy, the drunks would appropriate all or part
of treasures donated by the King ... Certainly better than precious
stones, which would bring him everything in common, or in bundles
of bank notes, secured with a rubber band, as she had seen in the
exchange houses. Because ... was not having to go loose pejiguera
the silverware to propose the sale of many pearls, sapphires and diamonds
... Finally, it bring as give them the win: it was a matter of cavil
or require many perendengues.

Dona Paca found in an ill temper, because
it had seemed at home in the morning, a clerk Store and insulted Tell
them brutal and vulgar expressions. The poor lady was crying and hair
pulling, pleading with his faithful friend plowing the land in search
of the few drives that were needed to tirárselos to face the beast
of a shopkeeper and racked Benina brains to find the solution to the
terrible conflict.

"Woman, by compassion, runs, invents something
- I said the lady, a sea of ??tears -. For chances are friends