 

[226.] Although these functions in the current order, dependent on certain conditions to which
they are subject the bodies, however, considered in itself, as are a modification of the soul,
present no essential relationship with the corporeal world. It seems then that would be contrary
to the principles of sound philosophy, to say that the disembodied soul can not experience conditions
similar to those felt while it is in this life. If this does not refute the soul separate, why
repugnant to other spirits?

The sensitive faculties are a kind of perception of a lower order, although see beings united
to bodies, are carried out immediately by a corporeal body, far from repugnant to the simplicity,
the demand: and for this reason we have seen, that matter is incapable feel (Lib II, Cap. II.).
Serious philosophers are of opinion that the causality of the bodies with respect to the feelings,
is merely casual, and this opinion is the difficulty to explain how a compound can be produced
conditions of any kind in a simple. Far because it has no contradiction between the simplicity
and the sensory faculties, there is a link required: no composite
being can be sensitive.

[227.] Perhaps one could believe that there is no longer any doubt as to the possibility of sensation,
regardless of the bodily organs, and to say otherwise would must maintain that God can not produce
itself, which occurs through the causes second.

The observations made so far, seem to exhaust the issue, but on reflection more about it, we'll
have to see what is little more than intact.

We should not forget that here we limit ourselves to consider the powers sensitive in comparison
to a single attribute of beings, simplicity. This limits on so the question, making it not be solved
only under one aspect. Simplicity, is a negative property: to say that one thing is simple, we
deny the parties, but not assert any of its properties: we say what is not, not what it is. From
this it follows, arguing that the sensitive powers not inherently repugnant to a pure spirit, we
restrict the proposition, and we would express more accurately if,
instead of saying "The sensitive faculties are not repugnant to a
pure spirit," we should say: "The sensitive faculties not repugnant
to the simplicity of a pure spirit.

"

[228.] This latter observation has in my view, the question in its true view: the rest is confusing
ideas, and solve problems without sufficient data. In effect: who knows, if disgust is not
between sensitivity and simplicity be found between sensitivity and some attribute that we
do not know? this argument not valid for the human soul, which we know is capable of feeling,
but applies to the other spirits, which neither know the essence,
nor have we undergoes what is the nature of their powers of perception.

[229.]

One of the distinctive characters of sensory perception, is the reference to objects individual,
and this, not with regard to the essence of them, but as being somewhat provision, which varieties
do not affect his inmost nature. The same extension, which objectify instinct and reflection,
is rather a result of the relations of beings entering the large compound, not the beings themselves.
This shows that the powers sensitive are the last grade in the order of perception, because their
functions are limited to indicate when that has a certain disposition of external objects, without
teaching anything on their nature. As pure spirits are in a higher degree in perceptual scale
of beings, and one of the characters of intelligence is to penetrate the intimate nature of
things may well be that higher intelligence to than ours, they hate the sensitive faculty,
not for reasons of simplicity, but the gender of their perception.

[230.] This we can guess based on a matter of analogy, what happens
to us themselves.

Sensible representations are often useful aids for the perception purely intellectual, but there
is no doubt that sometimes we get pregnant and confused. Any will have experienced that in the very
abstract meditations on objects, representations sensitive are a kind of hindrance of intelligence,
which we would like to get rid For some moments, if it were possible to our weakness. Sensible representations
seem in such cases, to shadows that stand between the intellectual eye and object be linking
the need for continuous stirring, slows and weakens the perception. We propose For example, think
about causality, it is clear that this idea taken in the abstract, should not can not get any
sensible representation, and however much we try, representation occurs to us: now is the same word
causality, written or spoken; now the image of a man running any thing now of any other agent,
but never we may dispose of any sensible representation. The understanding is compelled to
say continually to himself: "this is not the idea of ??causality, that is an image, a comparison,
an expression "unmarried defending illusions that would make it particularly confusing universal,
the necessary quota, appearance with reality.

[231.] From the above we infer that the reluctance of the sensitive faculties to nature of a pure
spirit, could very well arise from the nature of his own intelligence,
which, because of his perfection, not agree to this duality of perception
we experience in ourselves.

The object of the intellect is the essence of the thing, quidditas, as expressive of the scholastics;
and sensitive performances tell us nothing about the essence. We offer a look of things, and
even this is limited to the perception of the extension, for in that respect to other sensations,
but rather experience a subjective fact that instinct and reason do we attribute to external causes,
we can not perceive the same arrangement of objects.

[232.] This latter observation suggests to me one that can support the conjecture that, in rising
intelligence to some degree, is incompatible with the sensitive faculties.

In feelings We note, we would say even anything about that aspect or disposition of the external world
if they had to base the extension, what do you reduce the corporeal world if we assume unextended?
Having thus shown (Chap. II.) That the extension, but based on some feelings, no is direct and
immediate object of sensation, is the only thing in the sensitive faculties makes us feel something
about the reality of objects is not really sensible. Then if the character of intellectual perception
is to know the reality of the object, the more intelligence is raised, more distant find the feeling,
being able to get case that intellectual and sensory faculties are incompatible in the same
subject.

[233.] Will understand better the strength of the observation above,
casting a glance at the scale of beings, and noticing what happens,
as they are more perfect.

The isolation of a being, indicates imperfection: the slightest idea that we form an object, is when
you conceive of absolute limits to its existence, without any internal activity, or external,
completely inert. So we figured a stone has its existence with shape: it is what has been
done, and nothing else: it retains the form that you have given but did not involve any activities,
to communicate with other beings has no conscience what is, in all relationships is completely passive,
receives, but does not give or can give.

[234.] As things rise in the level of perfection ceases isolation: with the passive properties,
combining the active, such agents conceive corporeal While not yet reached the status of living,
and take an active part in the production of phenomena emerging from the laboratory of nature.
In these beings, to more than have, find what they can: their relationships with others are many and
varied: its existence not limited to his own circle, it expands,
communicating in some way to rest.

[235.] As you enter the order of organic beings, and we find ourselves with a more nature expansive:
life is a continuous expansion. The living being, somehow extends to time they have ceased to exist,
confining itself reproductive germs, not itself only for itself but also for others in its
smallness, is nothing more than an imperceptible link in the great
chain of nature, but this link vibrates, so to speak, and their vibrations
propagated to the farthest reaches.

[236.] When life rises to the feeling, spreads even more, the feelings, somehow locked in the
universe with the consciousness of what they experience, is put into new relationships with all
that work on it. The perception is immanent, that is, lies in the same subject, but combined
with the subjectivity of objectivity, by which the universe is to be reflected in a point.
So just being there in itself is somehow the other things, verifying the saying of the scholastics,
so full of deep meaning: "What we know is the thing known." The feeling there is some order, are
the more perfect The less subjective: the noblest, are what put us in communication with objects
strictly speaking, those which are not limited to the experience
of the objects that cause us, but knowledge of what they are.

[237.] There for the objectivity of the sensations a base that is the extension: and this, and
is not directly and immediately felt: the only thing that moves us as it were, to the outside, is not
proper sense. The extension, which teaches us something about the reality of beings, with respect
to certain provisions of them together, is rather the subject of intelligence sensitive to a power,
the sensation is over, and science is born. And science is not limited what appears to objects,
but to what is in them, the understanding does not stop in the subjective,
passes into the objective, and when you can not reach reality, it
expands by regions of possibility.

[238.] In this look just throw on the scale of beings, is that perfection of these is proportional
to its expansion, that, as they are more perfect, leaving more of the own field, and enter the
outside. Here is that perception, the highest, is less subjective: the smallest degree what
the feeling is limited to what is experienced by the subject percipient,
the highest level, intelligence, dispenses with the experienced and
deals real, and its own object.

[239.] We should infer from the above that if we know the intimate nature of pure spirits, you may
find that the sensitive faculties, were completely incompatible with the elevation of his mind: and
that the analogies based on the nature of our perceptions, are useless, referring to a way of understanding
more perfect than ours. Whatever, it must be acknowledged that the issue would be resolved in
a very incomplete if we had limited to one aspect of simplicity, and that considerations the nature
of intelligence should make us cautious not to assert as possible,
perhaps we would not be, if we knew more about the nature of things.

[240.] So far I have spoken referring to the inner possibility of things, what we will think
of reality? this is a matter of fact that can only be solved with
data provided by experience, and these data are missing: because we
are not in immediate communication, or with separate souls, nor with
pure spirits.

[241.] If we find any reason to deny the soul all the sensitive faculties, as soon as it is
separated from the body, and equal to all the pure spirits could find, rather than the essence of
things, in consideration of the purpose for which these powers are used. The soul, while united
to the body, presides over an organization subject to the general laws of the corporeal universe.
In exercising its functions as convenient, it needs to be in constant communication with his
own body and the around him, taking sensible intuition of corporate relations, being advised
by pain of any disorder that occurs in your body, and guided by the sense of pleasure, as by an
instinct that guided and tempered by reason, I can tell helpful or necessary. When the soul
is not attached to the body, there is no reason to have any of these diseases need to target
not having them in their actions: and as this reason militaria with respect to all pure spirits,
you can guess the cause of the difference that should exist between the state of our soul in this
life, and spiritual beings not attached to any body.

[242.] This argument, taken from the end of things can not be regarded as a test; has no more
value than a guess, because not knowing how far the soul separated and pure spirits, they may
be in relationships with some bodies, also ignored if these conditions might necessarily be
so sensitive or useful for purposes which are outside our reach. Moreover, assuming that no
separate soul or pure spirits, no they had to do with any body, we could not say with complete
security sensitive conditions that they were useless, on the contrary, as we can achieve,
it seems to strip the soul of his imagination and feelings, is to take two beautiful powers
that help them over their understanding, is a powerful mobile many
of their actions.

We have some difficulty to form the idea of ??pain or pleasure, but by mediating conditions of
feeling. In the will of the purely intellectual, wanting to conceive or not to want: most simple
acts of relationship, we do not mean pleasant or unpleasant affection. Many times we want a thing
happens, and yet experience great distress in it: and conversely, happens very often that
we feel a pleasure in what you do not want.

After wanting and not wanting their own, and while in this life, do not involve pleasure or
displeasure, are independent of these conditions, and may be in opposition with them.

[243.] It may be noted that this discrepancy comes from the sensitive powers are in disagreement
with the intellectuals, that, albeit very true, is not opposed to it we are saying. Whenever it
is clear that the will of the intellectual order, when in opposition to the sensitive conditions,
it involves pleasure or displeasure destroyed; triumphs is true, in virtue of their free will,
but their triumph is like that of an owner who must to seek compliance with stringent requirements,
experience disgust, at the same time manages the execution of their mandates. Who knows then,
if you will, even after this life, walk accompanied by conditions similar to those which now
feels, rather than purified of the crude to mix them, the body that adds to the soul? There
seems to be no contradiction inherent in it, and if the philosophical
issues could be resolved by feeling, I would guess that this beautiful
set of faculties we call heart does not fall into the pit, but flies
with the immortal soul to the regions.

[244.] Concerning to the imagination, that mysterious power, than to represent over the real world
has an inexhaustible fertility create new ones, deploying in the eyes rich and resplendent soul
scenarios, does not appear that a soul could be separated smirch the body. The ineffable harmonies
that we must assume in nature, why could not be perceived in a sensitive manner? Beware of venturing
on arcane propositions unknown to us, but also beware of the draw
boundaries to the Almighty, calling impossible that the sight of a
sound philosophy, is in the order of possibility.

CHAPTER XXXII.

POSSIBILITY OF PENETRATION OF THE CORPS.

[245.] The more you meditate on the corporeal world, but the contingency is found in many of
their relations, and therefore the need to resort to a cause greater than been established.
Even the properties that seem more absolute, cease to be when are
subjected to the test of reason.

What could be more necessary than the impenetrability? And But from the moment it looks severely,
it is reduced to a fact experience, which is not based on the intimate nature of the objects, and
that therefore can exist or cease to exist, without contradiction.

[246.] The impenetrability, is that property of bodies, which can
not be together in one place.

For all who do not make a pure reality independent space of bodies, this definition means nothing:
for if the place as pure space, is nothing to speak of a spot, with abstraction of the body, is talking
about nothing. Then impenetrability can not be anything but a certain relationship, or of
bodies or of ideas.

[247.] First order to distinguish between the real and the purely ideal. Impenetrability can be
considered two species, physics and geometry. Physics, is what we see in nature; the geometry
is what is in our ideas. Two metal balloons can not be in one place, here is the physical impenetrability.
The ideas of two balloons we offer two extensions that are mutually exclusive in the sensible
representation behold impenetrability geometric. When we imagine that the two balloons will match
perfectly, and there are not two, but one, when we imagine that a balloon occupies part of
another, is a new figure, Either one is considered as a portion of the other, and therefore
is contained in his idea, so is the case in which the child is placed inside the larger. In
both cases considers the interpenetrating balloons in whole or in part, but this penetration
is no more than the designation of certain parts in the one, considered as a pure space, in which Place
the other, also considered as a pure space. No geometric impenetrability exists only when the two objects
are supposed to separate, and only insofar as they are separated; in which case the impenetrability
is absolutely necessary, because the penetration equate to confused to what is supposed to separate,
that is, they affirm the separation and non-separation, which is contradictory. Then the geometric
impenetrability is no evidence in favor of the impenetrability physical, because that exists in
the single case of this budget, ie that the required under penalty
of contradictions.

It is clear that the same would be in the reality for if we assume two separate bodies, they can
not empathize while they are separated, without crashing into a manifest contradiction. At this point,
the ideal order teaches us nothing on the real.

[248.] Rapport can exist in reality? A metal globe, for example, could come within a metal globe,
as we enter into one another, two geometric balloons? clear is that
it is not the regular order, which contradicts such assumptions, but
the very essence of things.

In this case, stated that there is no contradiction in penetrable bodies do, and that analysis of
this matter shows that the impenetrability bodies has nothing essential.

We have seen that the idea of ??place as pure space, is an abstraction, then it is an assumption
entirely imaginary, one in which every body to give a certain extent, to fill some space, so
that I can not but fill, and will not be possible to one while to admit other in one place. The situation
of the bodies, in general, is the set of their relations, the extension
of each individual body is but a set of relations of its parts together,
to reach or to unextended points, or an infinite smallness, he will
be approached by an infinite division.

The set of relations or indivisible beings is what we call infinitesimal extension and space,
and everything is understood in the vast field that offers us the representation sensitive. Who
told us that these relationships are not variables? Is our experience is perhaps limit the
nature of things? Obviously not. The universe has not been traced on our experience, but our experience
has emanated from him, saying there is no nor can it be anything but what it testifies, is to
make our self the kind of universe is to assert that its laws are rooted in us and are emanations
of our being: pride imperceptible atom fool for that which is presented for a few moments in
the vast theater nature and then disappears foolish pride, for that spirit in spite of the grandeur
capacity, feels powerless to evade these laws, to these phenomena,
according the monstrous assumption, should be the work himself.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

A TRIUMPH OF RELIGION IN THE FIELD OF PHILOSOPHY.

[249.] From the analysis I just made in the preceding chapters, is that objects extensive two things:
variety and continuity: the first is absolutely necessary if there be extension: various parties in
this fall, and difference can not be identical without manifest contradiction, continuity posters
displayed in the sensitive, is not essential to extended things, because there is only the
result of a set of relations, inseparable in the current order of sensitivity, but not absolutely
necessary in the order of reality. Transcendental philosophy, rising above the sensible representations,
leaving the phenomena and into the contemplation of things themselves, not discover in any part
the need for such relationships, and is forced to consider them as simple facts that could cease
to be, without any contradiction.

Thus the correspondence is saved phenomenon of reality, and harmonizes the internal with the external
world, but do not move to this all the subjective conditions of that so, than necessary for our representations,
it is also in itself and absolute necessity.

[250.] Having reached this point of transcendental philosophy, the spirit is as set a high peak,
from which to discover new worlds, and grateful to say, and comforting
the experience, between these worlds is discovered a new proof for
the divinity of the Catholic religion, and received a very salutary
lesson for not surrendering to the ravings a senseless philosophy,
which believes contradictions spot wherever you are offered August
shades.

[251.] There is in the Catholic religion a mystery that the Church celebrated with ceremonies
Augustus, and that the Christian worships with faith and love. The unbeliever has been the
holy tabernacle, and smiling with contempt, said: "Here is a monument of superstition, behold
the man loving the absurd. "There is still a work of theology, but philosophically, I could
do without responding to the objections of unbelief, but it seems very timely occasion to Drop difficulties
raised by the superficiality and lightness that I can not help seize it. The genre of the work
forces me to be brief on this topic, but the importance claims that the object does not overlook,
mostly when Catholic authors who have Solid writing philosophy have
also made some clarifications on this matter, in places have thought
more appropriate, and particularly when dealing with the extension