 Portugal,
a pygmy, "Brazil absorbs the giant by his side? Let us be honest and practical resting in the conviction
that not only American independence is a fact and a right, but nobody has the idea of ??attacking
things accomplished. Spain still has reorganized and much to do to regain a shadow of its importance
in the sixteenth century. France, torn, his eyes fixed on the Rhine, barely keeps his possessions in
Africa ... and their own European limits. England look to grow with India's anxiety, cope Canada,
and move silently democracy, which it considers a threat of dissolution. The Germany Thus,
hardening its foundation, is homogeneous, while Austria, lost their old European prestige includes,
under the experience of misfortune, that the real path His greatness is to the East, at the
head of the "sick man." The Portugal! ... Let's be serious I repeat, no one threatens the independence
of America, and for the more adventurous blundering or deluded is still alive the memory of Maximilian,
who paid with his life an absurd concept and undignified business, ignored his chivalrous spirit.
America can ignite in a continental war, committing serious European interests as those who have
suffered so much endless war in the Pacific, Europe does not give off a soldier of his paintings
and a ship of their reservation. Gone are the days of the Anglo-French intervention in Silver
or in Mexico, and Europe could, and this time with reason, to change the formula of Monroe
repeating Europe for the europeans!

What modern meaning, real, positive, has today, then, the famous doctrine?

Simply this: American influence rather than European influence, the American trade rather European,
American industry instead of Europe. Is that a legitimate desire? Undoubtedly, but it is a
simple national aspiration, selfish in their patriotism, unique in its ambition, but that is not covered,
as I said before, the character of a principle of justice, natural law, which is able to impose
on the whole of America. That within five years the astonishing development of Argentina, its
industry overflowing, the inexhaustible resources of its soil, inspire our statesmen the resurrection
of the doctrine Monroe on behalf of the Argentine people, just natural. But what then answer American
nationalities who have not reached their level of achievement, moreover, that geography place
outside the orbit of Argentina? Precisely what we must answer United States today frankly
and openly, whether in the table of a U.S. Congress is by the discreet voice of the foreign
ministries, and that's not only us but every country from Panama to Buenos Aires: "We must not, want
not, we will not break with Europe should benefit a theory without political sense at the present
time, the Europe we are the intellectual life and material life. She and only she fills our
deserts, buy and consume our products, replaces the shortcomings of our industry, give us your money,
his genius and science; is, in short, the architect of our progress. Instead, what we receive from you,
Gentlemen? The institutional case, in the midst of its advantages, brings the power of our institutional
conflicts, because we imitate indiscriminately, and evil result, there is lost under the massive
weight of the mass, we are unbalanced and us in separate sheds dire. For how industry? Pine
timber and cotton bales. Come to buy our wool and leathers, sell at prices lower than Europe,
tissues and artifacts; abridnos your money markets to help us make railways and canals; establish,
in a word, trade and intellectual now have with the Old World desbancadlo, what the hell!
under the laws governing the economy of nations, and then ... Oh! then we would not have, neither
you nor us, screaming need shouting America for the Americans, but the formula would be a fact indestructible
the force of things. Such are the ideas that imposes the slightest observation of our current state,
the slightest deviation could only be momentary, and the return of unjust Via cost maybe our
brothers in Mexico (neighbors, however), many sacrifices.

Now, what should our attitude on the issue of South America Warranty Panama Canal? It is clear
from the above premises, the undisputed choice of the collective security of Europe and America on
the Union's exclusive warranty. I declare, without merit in my view the criticism of skeptical,
he founded today minor in this issue of guarantees, treaties with
the wind when sailing fan of interests [30].

And in the course of positivism today launching the human spirit advertisers shout, but Europe
shrugs when Wolseley takes hold of the Suez Canal, and for the sake of a transit stop military operation,
not the flag insurrectionary Arabia, but universal trade. Browse hand and then change notes,
here is all politics. Is good, is morality, is the fair? I do not know, but the only one that works,
and Therefore, any statesman, moaning by the depravity of the ideas, will always who loves
his country, has the heart and see it as a bit unclear.

With all the guarantees of the land or his own, the United States at the time must have to seize
the Panama Canal. Definitely return it, yes, after the peace and much exchange of notes.

The importance of the issue to the South American countries lies, therefore, to reject indirectly,
through its commitment to collective security, all solidarity with
the doctrine Monroe, as is understood and practiced by the Americans.

There would be no reason or justice, or common sense, to follow the U.S. stupidly, intended
to issue a new Bull of Alexander VI, divided the two worlds to their advantage. Our future is
in Europe and with it every day we strengthen our relationships,
mistaken, if possible, our life with it, indeed, draw their ideas
of order, conservation, purity administrative you have to fertilize
our democracy strong ...

I've wondered what England would respond
if the United States will propose the substitution your warranty exclusively
by the collective guarantee of all countries of both Americas.

It just laugh, what could we do in the likely event that our huge ally occurred to him do what he
pleased?

The real South American politics, as in the case of the planned convening of the Congress by the
United States, or any occasion, it is strongly express their wishes not to depart from Europe,
at the same time trying to insinuate themselves into the general concert, claiming a modest
seat at any conference in which American interests are concerned. Cavour got 15,000 men through a crack in
the Crimea, and then maneuvered so However, he did the Italian unit.

Our emerging countries now have a purpose so vital to pursue, but the results of a general approach
and the advantages of marching on the same line of great nations, just once, can be of incalculable
importance ...

I now ask forgiveness for the last few pages, but as the end of the day is approaching and soon
we parted, I expect that will be read with that patient, full of vague hopes, heard that the
last paragraph of a nuisance that has the hat in one hand and the other on the doorknob.

* * * * *

When I went to Alene, who had to leave the next morning, I found a number of unloading men and
women over fifty wagons had just left a locomotive the side of the vapor, which transshipped
content.

Do you know what it was? Bananas! Never I have seen a similar amount of bananas. Thousands, millions
of bunches were stacked in vast warehouses of three ships that carried simultaneously. Such development
has taken the industry on the Isthmus, which had been founded exclusively for steamship the transport
of bananas.

       Later, in New York, I explained that special use.

The streets are full of fruit vendors, and rare is the U.S. that the move does not buy a couple
of bananas, peeling bravely with his teeth and swallows without diminishing their gymnastic
step. Has reached such a point the thing that has required a police edict grieving with heavy
fine for throwing banana peels on the street, thus providing opportunity to more than unfortunate
to break your neck.

Now, you know how much has promoted the value of banana exports from the port of Columbus in
1881? A one million two hundred thousand pesos inert, that is, six billion Swiss francs or thirty
million pesos currency (Buenos Aires). I figure in several types money for their enormity is not attributable
to error [31].

"Ye pretend the pyramid of bunches of bananas that is needed, a paltry
price paid for reach that amount?

And yet, one of the strongest exporters, the initiator idea, has double the exports in two years,
accustomed to the banana the whole region central United States that has not bitten the soft fruit.
It is good to note that bananas from Panama, which is the best in the world, occurs throughout
the year.

Pore, as before existing plants were far from sufficient to meet export, owners huge plantations
have been hired, and on the day but are not full of banana fruit along the railroad from Colon
to Panama. The banana is shipped green, begins to brown After four or five days, and full flavor
arrives in New York, where he soon disappears to the formidable consumption.

If, as expected, the fifty million people in the United States habituate to eat bananas in the proportion
that today they are New Yorkers and people in general coast, Panama's future is assured. Leaving
the tropical climbing sap joyous Palm and swell the golden fruit that can become the richest
state in Colombia.

Alene was a small steamer built in Glasgow, strong, solid and seaworthy. Found the board some
Colombian families heading to New York as well as numerous American and English from California
or South American Pacific ports.

Cross view of the island of Cuba, the Bahamas face and stopped to take coal one of the islands
of Barbados, these were all accidents of travel. My only entertainment on board was caring for a
child carrying a turpial Colombia.

The melodious bird paid me their attention with its melancholy whistle of a sweetness and depth.
Turpial throat has not this extraordinary Virtuosité nightingale or the canary, the agility he is unknown.
But his singing, equal and monotonous, is like those delicate pieces of music that always elicit
new sensations ... I concluded to take true love to turpial, it was for me a source of bitterness.
When anchored, a sailor who bothered cage for some maneuver unexpectedly placed on the boiler
that projected in the housing. In the time to go ashore, the poor girl, with the expansive
joy of arrival, came running taken from my hand to find the turpial ... The poor animal was
dying, half a roasted by the heat boiler, had the instinct to retreat into the water container all
the morning is put in the cage. From two doctors who came on board, just the last passenger,
all came up with twenty different remedies to no avail. The poor bird died a moment later. The little
girl was crying inconsolably and could not shake the turpial, who had pressed against the breast,
as if to give his life ... I walked like a fool in bridge, cursing at myself and my stupid sentimentality
that made me a hard time by the death of a turpial when I absorbed annually a number of birds
killed for my private use, with the most perfect peace of mind. I make an exception, however,
but does not refer to a bird. About two years ago not as a turtle. Here's why: One morning, up
the Magdalena, the boatmen had caught a huge turtle, whose shell, over, there would be less
than half a meter. As chance had fallen to the kitchen when I met one of the helpers on the way
to kill the turtle, but that barbarian, by dint of axes and machetes, tried to separate the body
from its shell without thinking about killing previously the poor animal, whose head hung and whose
eyes narrowed with each blow Axe ... She was removed from his hands, forced him to kill her
in the act, but I have not to try turtle!

* * * * *

On the morning of the eighth day, we saw, far yet, five or six small candles to the north and
west. They were pilots, in their small and fast yachts, with sometimes venturing up two and three
hundred miles from New York, running a real steeple-chase in search
of ships to drive the port.

       There are two rival companies, happily, explaining that request.

In fact, the port of New York is so well known and is so well marked, that masters not need the
help of the pilot to enter safely. But, as in case of a contrast always possible, insurance
companies do not pay if they have not taken all precautions, the character is indispensable. As
the wind was against them, had a good time watching the skillful maneuvers, the beautiful embroidered
made to gain ground, approaching the vapor. Finally, one of the yachts, when his opponent was only
twenty fathoms managed to grab a tie that he began to port and the other board tacked on the spot,
without any remarks and put forward a black dot visible on the horizon, some ship that was certainly
our route. A man with a full beard but no mustache, coat and top hat, serious and solemn,
appeared on the deck of the yacht, with a newspaper in his hand. This is the last issue of the
New York Herald who have taken before departure, to give away the captain. He who forgets that
requirement is sure to be shunned by the captain on the next trip by a simple maneuver, if the
number of his yacht (painted on the sail), is between likely candidates.

The arrival of the pilot is always an event on board, seems to have an air of city some aspect
of joy to the spirit land. Comes from among the living, you know what happened in the world, is the
embodiment of that hope of the arrival in recent days ago rough and violent ... We were all
crowded into the stairwell. The pilot waved seriously "What is new?" - Someone asked. "Garibaldi
is Died."

So I had the first news of the death of the hero of San Antonio. I do not know what made me more
of an impression, if the news itself or the way I got it. In 1870, when boarding the pilot to be
made Southampton port, he said, when asked about the news: "Charles Dickens is dead. " Upon my
return, in 1871, I also discovered a workable in a transit port, the death of Alexander Dumas.
These curious coincidences struck me in an inexplicable way, and since then I look at the practical
as birds of ill omen.

But who would get the New York Herald, after the captain? Serious issue. The wolf locked herself
in her room, and I think, not only read to the ads the very miserable, but Typographical errors
corrected until. When we succeed, we find nothing can satisfy our curiosity. It seems incredible that the
march of human affairs so monotonous, there are so few rail crash,
given the length of railway lines so rare and heinous crimes, given
the conditions of our friendly species.

Behold, at last, the famous port of New York. Undoubtedly, the deep cove, bordered capricious
hills, dotted with mountains, gleaming houses, villages and castles modern presents a charming
appearance. But no, it is the bay of Rio de Janeiro, the pride of tropical zone, with its
deep blue sky and waters, its mountains, palm trees and coconut trees,
islands smiling.

Nor is poetic and serene calm of the Gulf of Naples reflection of the soul of Virgil, who was impregnated
with this picture of heavenly peace. But to the truth, the New York Bay pleasantly surprised when
he walks the floor of the great nation american spirit only willing to contemplate the positive
side of human life the shows great industry, not natural beauties ...

All new, all fresh and rosy.