 He did not disdain
olive branches and flowers and winning graceful palms that day received of his triumph. His
faithful, more simple and naive, love love material objects him, and surrounded by roses and
herbs, in the early days of May, the sacred tree it was his gallows, and when, and below the spring,
when the unfolding richer vernal Church celebrates the sacred mystery whereby he wanted to communicate to
us, infused in the liquor that gladdens the hearts and the bread that feeds us, the people Christian
gayomba smelly carpet and fresh green pine needles the passageway for, and women shed a rain
of flowers on the artistic and golden temple, ark of the new alliance, where he is in custody.

Must
be confessed, is unfounded, is unfair accusation of the wicked. Doctrine did not come of Christ
to condemn or devilish nature.

The three enemies of the doctrine capital not have less influence, jurisdiction and control in the
realm of spirit than of matter. Also following people can be spiritual. There is only lust in
the flesh: is there in spirit. And if divine spiritualism, evil does not stop him, and more unfortunately
common and frequent.

Now, I understand that this devilish spiritualism, not divine, is
what sets us apart nature and its innocent love.

Although I acknowledge gullible, largely benign, wanting to forgive him everything, I will declare
Here is a confidence thing.

In my view, even the devil himself and lost no seduces us so suddenly and without further ado.
It would keep it very well: you would not mind none. The devil is founded at the beginning something
reasonable takes us good terms and roads, until we reached a certain
point, where and, very gently, start the damned of God leading us
enamored by shortcuts, and so we lost and we lost.

In the case of spiritualism, to which we refer, it is clear that the principles are not bad and foundations.
Nature did much for the man, but the spirit has been supplemented natural work, making it more
suitable, more beautiful, more useful and more suited to our needs and aspirations. The man,
the weaker and more helpless than the lamb, the spirit, become blacksmith and fireworks, has given
weapons and forces a thousand times greater than the lion, the man, more naked Chow, spirit,
become a weaver, a tailor, a shoemaker and hat, he has dressed the most gorgeous costumes peacock,
the hummingbird and parrot; man, little smarter than the mole or the owl in point of view, the
spirit, become a manufacturer of telescopes, has provided him with more penetrating view of the
eagle, the man never would have done naturally and instinctively something were worth half
hive, the spirit become an architect, taught him to build castles proud, slender towers, enormous
pyramids, columns, graceful, comfortable homes, cathedrals, theaters, and in addition, cities
wonderful, the man who in the state of wild nature is prone to eating their similar, and that gave,
and still often given away in some regions, with rough acorns with grasshoppers crushed or raw fish
and rotting, the spirit, become a chef, artistically prepared dishes will welcome up to the
eye, and makes an act remember him most as he has in common with the animal is a solemn, white
tie and decorations, where they may celebrate the most momentous triumphs of religion, science,
philosophy and politics, the man, in short, that after sin means, and the state of nature and
no longer grace, must have been nearly as ugly as monkey, and dirtier than the pig, and most
pestiferous to the skunk, the spirit, become braces, a fisherman of sponges, a manufacturer
of toilets in civilization to put it a word, has made clean, fragrant, clean and quite nice
to be a model Minerva and Jupiter of Phidias, the Vatican Apollo and the Venus de Milo and
Medicis.

It would be no end to the referring here to go he has done in the
spirit to complete, beautify and glorify the work of nature.

So, a rule of thumb, it can be ensured, without fear of being exaggerated, that even the things that
seem natural, nature, although under review, has made Six-party one, and the spirit of man
has the other five. Could, for example, feeding our globe, in a state of mere nature, two hundred
million people?

I fear that no. Thus there is, what they say, because I have not counted, 1,200 million, then
one billion are sons of art, pure creation of the mind, a product of our fertile wit.

Let us, therefore, that one-sixth of all there, and perhaps much to, has given him nature has gifted.
The other five sixths have cost a lot of work to the spirit. And this work of the spirit, this
supplement to nature is what has value and price and measured and plotted and moves under the round
shape of coins or making the trace of a filthy vile papers are called
bills, which, as well as discs or ingots of metal, come to be incarnation
of the spirit, the subtle and lively and circulating of its value,
the imperishable essence of his secular work accumulated.

So far things are going well, but here the devil, as they say, starts screw up. Spiritualism
and excites leads us to love, to adore about this embodiment, or better expressed, the metallization
empapelación and spirit. For this spiritualism and not by Christianity, the natural disdain:
Do not feel all the beauty of spring. If you do not have, or in your chest, or in your pocket,
some of these tejoletes or some such Spiritual vile papers, all the flowers will seem thistles,
and spring, winter, and the you carnations flower smelling like sardines, the marjoram, wild
thyme, lemon balm and basil, rue and infect you, leaves you velvety punctured Begonia hands
as if they were Scotch thistle, by touching the touch gorse believe mimosa pudica and nettles will
be for you as spurge peppermint and chamomile, the cane will be bitter sweet the palate as a broom,
to the red pomegranate blossom prefer the yellow arugula; confuse the nightingale's song with the
frog you crave crows and owls doves pigeons; and butterflies painted and air, and the slender damselflies,
fireflies and lucent and fireflies and aromatic macuba fly will cause you more disgusted that
the weevils, cockroaches and dung beetles.

Once dominated by the aforementioned man spiritualism, hates him and the idyllic rural life and
the eclogue. Aminta and Silvia, Daphnis and Chloe, and Philemon Baucis and authorities seem
unbearable.

What is opposed, therefore it is natural to artificial. The shooting to destroy the poetic charm
the world is the spirit of industry, not science, nor religion, nor philosophy.

A thousand times I have said and never stopped to think: the most devious and subtle experimental
wise not ever discover the secret of life, always escape the force chemical analysis mysterious
links, work and combines the individual atoms and create, love, consciousness, thought, due to
move, to grow organically, to feel and to represent one to the other beings, not ever be at the
bottom of the retorts or leave through the entrance of the stills. What network will invent
the wise delicate sprites to fish, hunt Sylphs or get the tireless gnomes from the bowels of
the earth?

The only reason I have for deny its existence is that you can not catch them: they are removed
from their gross inspection senses.

Moreover, nymphs, goddesses, all supernatural beings that populated air, land and water in the
first ages of the world, can live and is likely to live now as then.

Science does not depopulated the nature or penetrates their innermost secrets. The mystery continues
and will continue forever.

Isis will not lift the veil that never covers.

Mysticism, which seeks for the shortest path to their God, in the abyss of our own soul, not
seek to have him there in solitary confinement.

Your God will be in the abyss of the soul, and that center will join the narrowest mystical
bond with God, but God is also all over the universe and all He is in everything and all things
in Him shall not psychological mysticism excluded, but involve naturalistic theosophy.

The axiom of this sublime science capital is infinite intelligence that is not the word Finally,
only the beginning of things, while being so close and central to where gravitate, and the point
where their disagreements are peace, and shaking homes, and solution its contradictions and
its qualities perfect unity and conditions.

In this high sense, all things ascent towards greater good and perfect life all progressive evolution
of a race of beings, in a marked space and a period greater or lesser time, is a spring. Things,
looks at a whole move, not Indeed, in a circle and back to the point where they started. On
the whole there is no progress.

With it, total if we could assume something added to the glory of God. Although there deep
of his being, the idea is and live with all its future development and refinement, while it go at least
as much to process without end, it looks as it grows divine glory as God is more creative than
before, as his works are giving increasingly clear and fulfilled testimony of his knowledge and his omnipotence.

It
is therefore undeniable that there is no overall progress.

The immutability of perfection implies God's infinite perfection total immutability of the universe,
which is the work yours. It is, however, moving into the details, and hence the partial or
temporary progress this or that.

As I engrossed in meditation metaphysics, I might add, with all due respect (not to God, for whom it
would be absurd and ridiculous to go out with this exception, but
apparently other meditators) divine wealth does not grow or decline,
it's not quantity, is infinite.

God is always creating, and always has everything set up. If you would create an atom would
be more creative, if you annihilate, would be less, if somewhat improved throughout, would be
corrected in some way, himself.

So to hold back the progress of our planet is partial and transient, is offset by a decline
or to other worlds, and is limited in time, although dilate hundreds of thousands of years, and
in space, but covers the entire solar system which we belong, and even a complete set of suns, our
sun is minimal part.

Considering now the evolution of life, within such a wide space, we may declare years maximum
for which we live, that, in the spring.

The maximum spring of this year began, according to authoritative scholars, makes twenty million
of years younger and usual. Then came the first to be organized. Since then plotted scholars with
the most scrupulous our family tree. Start a tree be called Monera, compromise between the
inorganic and organic, germ, embryo, element prime of life, endowed with a force, an itch, a
propensity for indiscriminate be a vegetable or animal. Then the tree will spread, and are unfolding
forms and differentiating, until the end of the Paleolithic age, and our ancestors have achieved
rise to the level of lizards and fish resources. During the Mesolithic age or secondary progressed
further. By going to come to an end, in the Cretaceous period, we are marsupials, that is,
we, like kangaroos and gerbils, a bag, where our little ones are hiding. In the Eocene period
of the Tertiary period, we achieved the dignity of monkeys are catarrinios, or say to yourself
monkeys with the windows down and nose to tail. In the Miocene period, and we drop tail, and
we resemble the gorrilla, orangutan and chimpanzee. In the period Pliocene are almost men, although
pithecoid and Alal, or without words, without understanding, as any monkey. Finally, in the
Quaternary, the period known as Flood, we unleashed the language, we started talking and we are
true men. From this moment sages less dramatic and more timid and economic in their chronologies,
put up the day Today some 25,000 years. Alala race, the antropiscos, the nearly men, as it were,
Africa left the center or a southern continent called Lemuria, which sank in the sea like
Atlantis, and was between Africa and Asia. These were antropiscos black as soot, and lived
in herds or flocks to fend off the beasts. So were spread around the world. During dispersal
and migration, invented languages, and here that can not be reduced to a primitive all. A
brown race, which is then and they belong to the Egyptians, gives an age of 15,000 years, rising
in improving of the black race.

Comes to light after the yellow race, whose most famous representatives are the Chinese and Japanese.
Its origin is set 10,000 years ago. And he is, after all, race white Aryans, Semites, Caucasians,
etc.., which is granted 8,000 years old least. In this race we have the honor to belong, but
nobody says that does not appear yet another top tamañitos neglected and leave us, which will
be very unpleasant. Sea as, despite the twenty million years ago that appeared monera, has not
to deny that we are still in the springtime of the year than we've
spoken.

What progress, what wonders, what new creations should not be expected yet? Just if mankind
is born. I have read in a very learned book this sentence, I will never forget. "Mankind, in its
collective life, not yet born."

All this long history that we already living in the spring of maximum and descry a long future,
glorious and fruitful, must not, however, rejoice too much, or less hubris. Compared our twenty millions
of years already served, plus twenty million at least last spring still on this planet, with
other springs and peak years of other planets and solar systems larger ones, may seem more brief
this spring that the ordinary and vulgar fine year, which only lasted three months.

I spent days pondering on the subject, and found myself in the field, in pleasant solitude in deep
valley surrounded by steep rocks, where there was quiet, cool and a thousand plants, herbs and
flowers, had awakened a dream that seemed pure spiritual vision and intuition to something real,
but for me physically imperceptible.

Within the area of ??one square kilometer understood that there were some subtle emanations of
certain fluid thousand times fainter than the air flow that penetrated the air around, infusing
in the gaps and interstices that allow molecules. This fluid, that man does not see, neither weighed,
and never feel with your senses, does not rise beyond a mile. We therefore a cubic kilometer
of this fluid filled thin, diluted in the air as perfumes or fragrances. Figureme, then, my
world as a cubic kilometer apart, and saw that it was populated by a lineage of sylphs so tiny
that if you accidentally swallow any one of the meanest molecule
air, this molecule and perhaps you will drown or choke as any of us
a peach pit.

My lineage sylphs breathe, therefore tenuous fluid which I spoke. With air molecules do sylphs
thousand beauties, and even play when they are young, huge disparity through blowguns.

Outside cubic kilometer is for my sylph infinite, unknown and unfathomable. Living in one hour,
but his mind is so fast and so subtle that at this time have time plenty of room for instruction,
love, spread, careers, rising to the highest positions, leave an illustrious name to its legitimate
offspring, and even tired of life and appeal suicide.

One minute for any of them is much more than a year for any us. Their poets composed verses
desperate and disillusioned at fifteen minutes after birth, and his
wise invent the deepest and most convoluted systems of philosophy
at thirty minutes.

The voice of my sylph is so thin that only the fluid can be transmitted
in waves above sound.

His words are so early in a second story concerns a sylph who the most concise of us take three
or four hours to count. Everything between us is extensive, it is
intense among the sylph.

In four hours of any day is extended History of the Sylphs, and is so rich in revolutions, changes,
wars and progress, like ours in the 1870-odd years that separate from the Christian Era until
the time of writing.

Sylphs have my human figure. I understand that every soul, every thought that informs a body,
big or small, gives this figure as the most beautiful.

The beauty of my sylph is such that if we could make a very powerful microscope to get to see
them, men envy and we desperately fall in love with the females.

They are very advanced in civilization. They have had many prophets and founders of religions;
but passes including age of faith, and scratching the dawn of the age of reason.

His knowledge of history, without any mixture of fable, what gives severe criticism by Indeed,
nothing more than ninety days, which amounts to over three thousand generations. And like a
minute for them is to be equivalent to a year for us, we can say that they make up the age of their
civilization over 129,600 years. Beyond that, going against current time, the Sylphs are not clear,
but if among them are a Darwin or a Haeckel undoubtedly place the
appearance of the first world monera sylph at a distance proportionately
much larger.

The concept of the universe are very different from that formed us. And not because his reason
is inconsistent with ours, but because there are other data from their senses. Fail with the
view to the sun or the moon or the stars, where the streams of burning light Throwing on them
first, and warm, silvery light that bathes the moon, come for them from a hidden spring. So are
a thousand scenarios to explain. Course there are long historical
periods of light and other long historical periods.

In his world
there are living beings, of such gigantic proportions that we do not
even conceive. A wasp is cheaper for them than it would be for us
the Nevado de Sorata, if pulling himself from rennet, cheering and
throwing wings, to receive a fly and show us through the air. Fortunately,
the excessive smallness of the Sylphs and agility portentous save
them of these monsters.

It is clear that the infinite is always infinite,
so in the mind of a sylph and mind of a man. At this point, if we
incur a rational speculation, our concepts are equal, but to count
on extended to greater numbers, to notice much, Sylphs beat us, penetrate
your senses and see and perceive depths extension of time, volume
and duration in the infinitely small, where the median, the mean for
us, the universe of a cubic kilometer is more daunting for them the
whole vastness of the heavens to us