 And in the shadow of our sleeves, trusting
in San Isidro, rural people sleep waiting for the angels to do their job! How to preach it to
"eat their bread by the sweat of your face," when the work that sweat means you do not need?

Unconnected
to the Bureau of Education of the Philippine government have proceeded
in the how I have done, not to defend the secular schools of an unjust
accusation and unjustifiable, not to attack people or religious or
political ideals, but to help remove one of the bases, one of the
strongest causes of criminality, corruption, training of individuals
useless and harmful to society: superstition!

And, gentlemen, is not only a superstition worthy of laughter, in any way. It is a superstition
ridiculous, yes, absurd, but tragic, dangerous, because it offers the wicked, the criminal the
ignorant, the means to succeed in life, get away, to get what they want giving them the means
to avoid punishment, on the ground circumventing justice men, and getting God's forgiveness
of eternal damnation, by the simple means of invoking the name of a saint, or a Latin word, like
a sesame, devotee crosses the gates of heaven.

Lamentable failure of the Bishop of Cebu

The prelate accused in the aforementioned manner to public schools, has made a mistake regrettable.
For my part I can assure you that his accusations aroused my curiosity investigate the causes
of immorality and perversion of morals that the prelate, and we with
it, we all regret.

According to those who have studied the mentality of most of our
people, it is evident that superstition is the enemy we to fight,
she is the moral cause of the errors we observe.

Both priests regular and the secular clergy confess that the mass of people is still in bondage
superstition inherited from the ancestors, superstition could be called genuinely Filipino,
which comes from the ancient beliefs in nunu, the asuang and anito and all the spirits of ancient
idolatry, before the introduction of Catholicism by missionaries Spanish.

The failure of the missionaries

According to own admission, these missionaries, after three centuries of preaching, have failed
remove these superstitions embedded in the consciousness of people.