 

A remark on the interest in cheating.

There are cases in which the narrator that seems interested in not telling the truth, it is unlikely
you have done, because soon discovered the lie, without recourse
to alleviate it, would become against him in a disgraceful manner.

Experience teaches us not to be trusted for certain military relations can not be contradicted
later, clearly and with the presence of positive data, producing complete evidence. The greatest
strength of the enemy or under the order or the dispersion with that this or that part of his
army retreated, the number of dead or wounded, I more or less favorable for some positions to address
the situation of the combatants, more or less impassable roads, and other things along those lines,
how can clarify the While the public? Everyone referred to things his own way, according to their
news, interests or desires; and they who know the truth are perhaps the first to darken the circulating
most egregious untruths. Those who come to get rid of the mess, and to see clearly in the
business, or silent, or are challenged by many thousand to sustain the illusion who care, and
falling on the spot cheaters never so shameful that do not allow any disguise. But suppose
that a general who is besieging a place, and can do nothing against it, is imprudent to send
a pompous part of the government, announcing that he has taken by assault and are in possession
of the remains of the garrison who have perished in the fray, at a few days will know the government
knows the public will know the same military that the general lied in a manner so shocking,
and ridicule and the shame that will befall you will impostor pay
dearly for his glory for now.

Here is that in such cases the public's sense often ask if the part It's official: and if it
is, but that ignores the circumstances that seeks to enhance the fact nevertheless lends credence
to the existence of it. So it is noteworthy that when most serious troubles it lies in a scandalous
manner, with the aim of encouraging a few hours and lead to more time, rarely invents a part naming
people, it appeals to the formulas "we know the positive, an eyewitness to refer just" and the
like; offices are supposed to be printed later received, etc. are sorted public rejoicing.
but always tends to leave a way open for a lie does not hit the front too with good sense,
are careful not to compromise the name of specific individuals; in a word, to reign the greatest
audacity, always saved some considerations to public awareness.

To leave it to lend credence to a relationship, not enough to object that the narrator is interested
in not telling the truth, it is necessary to consider whether the
circumstances of the lie is so unfortunate, that soon after its discovery
there in their nakedness, without that fits the deceiver the excuse
that he was mistaken or had been misinformed