 

His strength.

Commander, Col. D. José Cabrero.

Second, the Chief Justice of Paucartambo, D. Francisco Zelerio.

His strength.

Infantry, Spanish and Indians faithful 550

Reserve Corps.

                                               Commander, Colonel of Dragoons, D. Gabriel de Aviles.

Second, the Army Captain, D. Jose Leon. Third, the colonel of militia, D. Gabriel de Ugarte.

His
strength.

Lima infantry veteran of Guananga 300 Idem 200

TOTAL. 500

TOTAL. 15,210 ======

A more expressive of strength, two detachments were used, consisting of 1.846 men to take the
posts of Urubamba, Calca y Lares, with a view to cut off the retreat
of the rebel on that side: and after having provided the appropriate
and necessary for subsistence Army, was set in motion the day March
9, 1781, with 6 guns, ammunition and corresponding ammunition, and
according to what they had nswer the patricians of the country, The
order was given to the commanders of columns, to lead the march, in
this way.

The 1. Nd by Paucartambo Quispicanche and Ink. 2. ª Quispicanche the Gorge. 3. ª by Orocoroco
Heights, Quispicanche to Tungasuca and Ink. 4. Nd by Paruro to Livitaca, Chumbivilcas Yauri and
Coporaque Ink. 5. Nd by Cotabamba, Chumbivilcas to Livitaca. 6. Nd by Paucartambo Heights Azorayaste
Ocongari and posts, and the roster for Orocoroco highland.

Implemented all the columns and the roster for the routes indicated, began since then he undergoes
the biggest nuisance, and by the excessive rain, hail and snow, which are very common in those
high, rugged mountains, and the lack of food, fuel and other aid, which caused the rebels have
closed communications faithful to the people where they could and should behave: in whose footsteps
kept so surveillance, the troops of the King came to undergoes the greatest needs, and were nswers
sometimes to be victims of cold and hunger. But were then with laudable perseverance all these works,
inspired by the example of the Commanding General, and other officers
to be unveiled to keep them on guard to repel the insurgents, often
tried to surprise the camp, taking advantage of the time of sunrise:
whose glorious occasions always got advantages, and refused to known
attacks warning to the contrary, they left in all the fields covered
with dead bodies immediately.

These repeated victories all the needs and situation of the army grew obstacles, and increased
escaseses; in such a way that considered and D. Joseph's Valley in a critical and sensitive
situation, determined to make his way vary from route to Ink, where he was the rebel headquarters
and parts of war: and down for this achievement a valley situated between high mountains, found a mild
temperament, and such abundance food, which his troops succeeded in a few days to recover their
past losses, and continue gears comfortably: either with many difficulties to overcome, and
the narrow steps, such as by large and deep cuts that the enemy failed to defend, or less advantage
of these and countless other benefits that those providing rough land, which in many places, nature
has become inaccessible. Stubborn yet made resistance in some places and less severe rookeries, pursuing
daily, right and left the road, the gears of our military, particularly in the gorges, without
neglecting to take advantage of the darkness of the night to surround the camps and fatiguing, forcing
the troops to be continually under arms, feeling the fire of musketry and cannon, which easily transportable
and bet on all sides, being of small weight and small caliber.

Always tolerate the insults of the rebels, and repeated threats to surprise the army, arrived at the
outskirts of the village of Quiquijana, after suffering all the way some fire of his artillery
and musketry. Those neighbors had been the most tenacious in promotion and support of the sedition,
trusting no doubt in the advantageous position occupied; of So, recognized by the Commanding
General, D. José del Valle, has estimated that to reduce was necessary to spend many days, and that
would not get but at the expense of much blood, no Despite the incompetence of the rebels,
the espugnacion graduating from that position, can two months to stop an embattled army, and
many, if he had been occupied and defended enemy otherwise. But taken over all, decided to camp in
the vicinity, and from was then greeted with the fire of artillery and musketry, which caused
no effect, for be stationed too far. At dawn the next day, the priest's own people gave notice
that the rebels had abandoned the plan to meet the Army their principal Chief, José Gabriel
Tupac-Amaru, who was in ink, having cut before the bridge to delay the continuation of all
terms of the march to our troops and also prevent them pursue and pulverized the back. This
notice went into the army Quiquijana del Rey, where they had just left the women and men, who
by his old ailments or had not been able to follow others. All are welcomed to the temple asylum
in where, with many tears and signs of repentance, asking forgiveness of their lives and the
pardon of their homes and farms, that were not delivered to the flames, as they deserved.
All were granted, and only experienced the harshness of punishment, Luis Poma, Inca, a cousin
of usurper Joseph Gabriel, Bernardo Zegarra and confidante, who paid with life on the gallows their
heinous crimes.

More accurate view of the provisions in the town of Quiquijana for
safety and grooming, our army marches continued without intermission
of days, and upon reaching the first camp presented the enemy occupying
the next mountain, whose absence had placed a cannon, and prevented
the summits many large and heavy stones, to which they give the name
of gauges, to throw and precipitous to offend our own in a very narrow
inevitable gorge, adjacent to a river flowing, who had to wade precisely.

To avoid the danger is named 100 Rifles light troops with all the Indian allies Chincheros Anta,
who was given the order to evict the rebels from three positions very advantageous that occupied
the crest of the mountain where they were housed, whose attack courageously undertaken, and
were fortunate not only to achieve the intent, but also defeat it entirely, to view the rest
of the troops they expected the success of the event.

The following day it was reported by a deserter from the enemy, who had placed a battery at the
foot of another mountain, the road which was to immediately follow our army, and that 10.000
defended combatants. Immediately appointed a column is greatly enhanced, so that taking another
direction, went round the mountain and go up to dominate the rebels back, and Major General with
the rest of the army set up by the plain, but at half a league had
to turn to avoid another mountain, and down to a very wide valley
spaces, with more maneuvering could disengage their troops.

Then they spotted the loads of the rebel Indian Ink and Chincheros that had gone ahead without orders,
attacked them with greater boldness and audacity. Gentlemen adventurers and dragons Caravaillo
Lima, who had been the vanguard of the army, came to the defense, and this reason pawning was
on the other troops with the bulk of the rebels, and locked the action, they were defeated completely,
leaving the field a great number of bodies, excluding retired or injured countless prisoners
were taken, and even same José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru would have been had it not been freed by
the lijereza of one of his horses, which undertook a hasty flight, and so stunning, that forgetting
ford the river which was to cross to go to Ink, rushed to swim in the deepest, which was very
close to being submerged in water, and they end up in your life. This accident more and more
dismayed by the mind of the tyrant, and determined run away without going through ink, and before
implement this resolution, he wrote to his wife in the most pathetic and melancholy diciéndules:
come against us many very brave soldiers and we have no other choice to die. Were ignored in the
army these last particulars, without knowing how it started moving again, to monitor progress
with the resolution to stay the night in ink, but could not be verified, owing to the river
immediately stopped the passage to the troops for being so large, that despite the precautions and active
measures it took Commanding General, D. José del Valle, he could not help two men drowned.
In this maneuver, always slow and dangerous in the army, we used the rest of the day and the next
and was necessary to camp overnight in the nearby town of Cambapata, a distance of Ink a league,
and our troops the first nail tent stakes, broke the enemy fire with three guns, a battery which had
placed, but always with the ordinary failing to place them too far, making this the most useless
times its effect because bullets do not reach our stores, or other objects intended to offend.

At
2 o'clock the next day they sent out 150 Rifles troops litgh with the Indian subsidiary of
Anta and Chincheros, to occupy a mountain overlooking the plain, where the army was to pass just
to go to Cambapata, which people recognized, he felt he had surrounded the insurgents, with
a wall of bricks, topped and covered with thorns, to embarrass the march, as they delay the arrival
possible of troops in ink. At 4 o'clock in the morning, he sent the same General placed a
battery five guns in a position dominated by the enemies whose well directed fire, was the
advantage that desert in less than an hour, and followed shortly afterwards, Ink 30 residents, who
said that people have been absent from the family of Joseph Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, taking the
silver coin, engraved, jewelry and other valuable effects, they had seized since the beginning
of the uprising.

With this new beat immediately sent General stores, to transport all the army to the town of Tinta,
where he found the portrait of the slope of the main rebel gallows, without finding out the
author of that action. It had certainly felt as appropriate, to celebrate sério act to uphold the
legitimate name of our August Sovereign and then sent many detachments in different directions,
with orders more effective, to seek terms for all the capture of fugitives to the prevention
of the first care was to go to close the passage to the Andes in the province of Carabaya order that
the rebel and his family had no insurance seekers who boasted on a quest those impenetrable rough
or confused among the savage Indians.

There followed the attempt by the rebels, rather Langui took the road,
and as he had made public their latest defeat, dare to chase D. Ventura
Lard, together with other residents of that jurisdiction, which has
arrested the same José Gabriel, his wife Micaela Bastidas, and to
two sons, Hipolito and Fernando, who delivered for safe driving and
custody to one of the detachments who had been following his reach,
and were taken to field Spanish, where that same day had already suffered
the penalty of hanging 67 rebels, who were arrested in that neighborhood,
whose heads were hung in public places, as a warning of the other
rebels, whom they took eight guns of different calibers, being the
greater of four, 20 rifles and shotguns, two pairs of pistols, four
pounds of cannon balls and rifle, as many of gunpowder, 30 spears,
and much of the theft and looting that had been done.

Prisoners were also, as a result of these favorable and prosperous events, Antonio Bastidas,
brother of Joseph Gabriel, whom he had appointed Captain General; Cecilia Tupac-Amaru, his half
sister, his cousin, Patrick Noguera, Colonel Jose Mamani; the commanders, the artillery, Ramon
Ponce, Diego Ponce Diego Verdejo, a relative of the tyrant; Castelo Andres Felipe Mendez, Puma
Isidro, Mariano Castillo, Sergeant Major; Diego Ortigosa, Advisor: Manuel Gallegos, feather, Melchor
Arteaga earned Butler, Blas Quiñones, Butler more, Tomasa Tito, chieftain of harassment; José
Venel, confident, Estevan Vaca, founder of artillery; Francisco Torres principal commissioner, Luke
Colquhoun, Commissioner and Mayor, four captains, two lieutenants, soldiers black and fleeing
individuals, including Antonio Oblitas, D. Slave Antonio Arriaga,
and the same one that was her tormentor in Ink.

After the main rebel arrested, his wife, children and most of their leaders main, it seems ought
to expect a favorable crisis, which restored at its former quietude altered the mood of the natives,
but far from it, began to be assured and lighter new rebellion, because, having achieved the
leak Diego Cristoval Tupac-Amaru, half-brother of Joseph Gabriel, Mariano Tupac-Amaru, his son,
Andres Noguera, and Miguel Bastidas his nephews, having followed a different route than the others,
managed to free themselves happily and take up residence in the province of Azangaro, blindly
continued his devotion with the surrounding of Peace, and the Collao, forming the party to hold
considerable their ideas. In this attempt arranged with the most active and effective measures,
gather all its partial wicked, and collect thousands of weapons and ammunition, to seize the prisoners,
while they were driven to the city of Cuzco, where he had given refer the Commanding General,
D. José del Valle, to suffer the punishment they deserved for their grave crimes.