 I've served, I've followed, I have held in
my adversity. You're good, very good, but not abuse, child, do not tell me you were coming home
with the Moor of dates, because believe you've gone mad.

- At home I had, yes, ma'am, as I brought Frasquito Ponte, for charity ... If there was mercy the
other, why should not having this? Or is that love is one for the gentleman frock coat, and
another for the poor naked?

I do not think so, I can not tell ... Therefore we brought, and if he does not admit, will be
the same as if I was not admitted.

- You always ... I say, not always ... I mean ... we have no gap in home ... We four women, you
see ... Will you come back tomorrow? The wretched places in a good inn ... not What nonsense!
Hospital ... Simply go to D. Romualdo ... Tell him from me I would recommend ... you look at
just my own ... Oh, I do not know what I mean! ... as something of yours, and so you ... In
short, daughter, you see ... May you shelter in the house of Mr. Kidron to be very big ... you told
me it's a huge coffer seems a convent ... I well know, as imperfect creature, I have no virtue
in a heroic degree that need to switch to pobretería dirty and smelly ... No, daughter, do not:
a question of stomach and nerve ... I would die of disgust, you know. As I say, with the misery
that will bring about you! ... I love you, Nina, but I know my stomach ... I see a speck in
the food, and I already stir it all, and I'm sick three days ... Take your clothes if you
want to move ... Juliana you give you what you need ... Do you hear
what I say?

Why are you silent? Ya, now I understand. You get the humble best to hide your pride ... I
forgive you everything, you know that I love you I'm good for you
... In short, you know me ... What?

- No, ma'am, I have not said
anything, I have nothing to say - Nina muttered between two sighs
deep -.

Stay with God.

- But do not go mad at me - said in a tremulous voice Doña Paca, following her distance in
its slow march down the aisle.

- No, ma'am ... you know that I do
not get mad at her old lady replied ...-- more compassionate than
angry -.

Bye bye. "

Obdulia led his mother to the dining room saying, "Poor Nina! ... Leaves. Well look, I would
have liked to see that moro Muza and talk to him ... This Juliana, who all want to get !...».

Stunned
by cruel doubts that baffled his spirit could not express Dona Francisca no idea, and continued
to review the silverware performed. Meanwhile, Juliana, leading the Nina to the door with soft
oppression of his hand on the back of the beggar, the dismissed with
these warm words: "Do not worry, Sena Benina that nothing must be
lacking ... I forgive you the drive that I paid last week, do not
you remember?

- Lady Juliana, I do remember.

Thanks.

- Well, well take this one hard to suit tonight ... Go tomorrow home,
you'll find there clothes ...

- Lady Juliana, God bless.

- Nowhere
else will you be better than Mercy, and if you want, I myself will
speak D. Romualdo, if you get embarrassed.

Doña Paca and I recommend ... For my wife mother-in put their trust
in me and gave me money to keep it ... and to rule the house, and
furnishes as you need.

Much has to thank God have fallen into these hands ...

- Good hands, Madam Juliana.

- Take home, and tell him what to do.

- Perhaps I know without you telling me.

- That you will ... If you do not want to go home ...

- I will go.

-
Well, Sena Benina, until tomorrow.

- Lady Juliana, servant to you.

"

Quickly dropped the worn steps, eager to be seen soon in the street.

When she reached the blind, which was waiting nearby place, the immense grief that oppressed
the heart of the poor mourn old burst into a fiery, anguished, and struck his forehead with his
fist, exclaimed: "Ungrateful, unthankful, ungrateful

- No yorar you, Amri - said the blind loving, tearful Talking -. Lady yours ill be your angel.

-
What ingratitude, Lord ... Oh world ... oh misery!

... Affront to God is to do well ...

- Dir us Lueje ... Dirna, Amri ... Mondo Dispreciar you wrong.

- God sees the hearts of all, mine is too ... See it, Lord of heaven
and earth, see it soon.

"

XXXIX

Having said that, he wiped his tears with a trembling hand, and thought
in making decisions practical than the circumstances demanded.

"Dirna, Dirna - Almudena said grabbing her arm.

- Where? - Nina said with astonishment -. Ah! the former home of D. Romualdo. "

As he said this name stood for a moment lela, completely idiotic.

-
"R'maldo lie - said the blind.

- Yes, yes, my invention was.

Which has been so much wealth to the lady will be another one D. Romualdo glue ... creature of
the devil ... No, no, the glue is mine ... I do not know, I know.

Come on, Almudena. Think you're bad, you need to spend well sheltered at night. Juliana Sena,
which is now cut the cheese in the house of my lady, and all supplies ... in good time is ...
has given me this hard. I'll take you to the palaces of Bernarda,
and tomorrow we'll see.

- Tomorrow, we Hierusalaim dir.

- Where
did you say?

To Jerusalem? And where is that? Well, we want to carry that point, as it were, a supposition, or
Carabanchel Jetafe Down!

- Lueje, Lueje ... you marry me and be a Migo tigo.

Marseille Dirna roads asking ... In Marseille steam ... pim, pam ... Jaffa ... Hierusalaim! ...
Arreligión married by your own, arreligión mine ... you want ...
Veder you Sepulchre, enter S'nagoga you pray Adonai ...

- Hold on,
son, have a little quiet, and I'm not dizzy with the inventions of
your head delusions.

The first thing you wear is good.

- Me to be good ... I do not c'lentura
and ... contented me.

You come Migo always, mondo large walk mochas, freeing, sea, terra, Legria mocha ...

- Very nice, but now I realize that you and I are hungry, and get to dinner in any tavern. If
you think, here in the Cava Baja ...

- Onde want you, I want ...».

Dined with relative content, and Almudena not stop to ponder the joys of going juntitos to Jerusalem,
begging by land and by sea, without hurry, without care. It would take months half a year maybe,
but finally give their bodies in Palestine, although undertake by land to Constantinople. As there were
few attractive countries to go! Nina that she had objected and bones would be hard for so
long, and Africa, not and knowing how to persuade, he said: "terra Ispani n'gratituda ... Running
Lueje, juyando of n'gratos them. "

As they dined are reflected in Bernarda's house, bedrooms down, two real bed. Almudena was quiet
all night, unable to fall asleep, stuck with the short trip to Jerusalem, and Benin, to see
to calm him, showed himself willing to undertake so long pilgrimage. Restless and sore, as if the bed
of brambles out punching, Mordechai did nothing turn from side to side, complaining of burning
in the skin and itching grievous, which were not motivated, that is the truth, about anything concerning
the misery fought with insecticide dusts. This came perhaps a strange turn took the fever,
and is told the next morning in a red rash on arms and legs. The unfortunate desperately scratched
and Benin took him to the street, hoping that the air free and the exercise will serve as a
relief. After wandering about asking, not as usual, went to San Carlos Street, and went to
see Juliana Benina, there he had his clothes, and gave it a mess, saying that while it managed to
be contained in the Mercy lodged in any house price, with or without
man, but he was better, for decency left so friendly and indecent
treatment.

He added that once it was cleaned of all the filth that had brought the Pardo, could go visit
Dona Paca, to joyful receive it, but I did not expect to return to his side, because the children
were opposed to it, mindful that his mother was well served, and provided regularly. Yet he
was as the good woman who saw in it a superior untestable.

Juliana was not a bad person, parent, yes, eager to show the great gifts of government God had
given him, a woman who would not let two jerks fall prey into their
hands.

But not without love of neighbor, he felt sorry for Benin, and having
said this that the Moor the waiting in the street, wanted to see him
and judge him by his own eyes.

That the trace of the poor African seemed pitiful, met in the gesture he made in the look
on his face, and accent said: "I already knew him to this, to see
him on the street asking the Duke of Alba.

He's a good point, and very much in love.

Right, Mr. Almudena, who likes you girls?

- Like my B'nina, Amri ...

- Ajaj ... Benina poor, he has not been granted poor fly! If you do this for charity, honest
I say you're a saint.

- The poor guy is sick and can not use. "

And as the Moor, seized with very violent itching in the arms and chest, claws do your fingers
to scrape win, edging closer to look at her arms, which had stripped from the sleeve. "What
has this man - said to fear - is leprosy ... Jesus, what Leprosy
Benina sign!

I have seen another case, a poor, del Moro well, begging him, Oran him calling at Puerta Cerrada,
next to the workshop of my stepfather. And it got so lost, not Christian had approached him, and
neither will the Saints Hospital wanted to receive ...

"Chop, chop mocha - Almudena was all he said, turning the nail from
the shoulder to hand, as would a comb through the tangle.

Concealing his disgust, not to hurt the unhappy pair, Juliana said Nina: "Well not you have fallen
ill concern with this guy! Look at that scab sticks. Good are you going put, yes ma'am, good,
nice and cheap ... Or are you more stupid than to cook the butter,
or do not know what it is you.

"

With Nina looks no more expressed their pity the poor blind man, his
decision not to leave him and compliance with all the calamities that
God would send. And in this, Antonio Zapata who returned home, saw
his wife in the group, came up to her hurriedly, and aware of what
speaking, Benina advised to carry the Moor to the query of skin diseases
San Juan de Dios.

"More consideration will have - said Juliana - send to their land.

- Lueje, Lueje - said Almudena -. Dir Hierusalaim us.

- Not bad. "From Madrid to Jerusalem, or the family of Uncle Maroma
...'.

Well, well. In other thing, my little lady, do not hit and listen. I could not do your assignments,
because ... I tell you they do not hit.

- Because you've gone to the pool, rogue ... Up, up, and adjust accounts.

- Do not climb because I have to go back to the cars of pathos.

- What do you say, you rascal?

- Not big go cart for less than forty real, and as you sent me from passing thirty ...

- Will I have to see. These men do not serve more than a hindrance, do you, Nina?

- Truth. What is it? Mrs. Will move?

- Yes, women, but may not be until tomorrow, because this silly husband God has given me, out before
the eight to take the house and alert the car, and you see what time you pick up here, with
all that rennet, without having done anything.

- Pretty've run, girl: At nine I went home mom with the contract for signature. You see if we
won time. But you know I've lost Frasquito Ponte, He has given us a tremendous s boring? As
we had to take him home and I Polidura with the greatest job. God, how is the man, and why mess on its
head from the thud of yesterday! ".

Benin and Juliana also interested in good or bad fortune of the son of Algeciras, heard attentive Antonio
told them what the consequences of the fall funestísimas Rider Pardo on the road. When I saw
on the ground, fired by jaco, everyone thought that at that critical moment he had finished the
poor knight's mortal existence. But lift, Frasquito recovered, as he revives the movement
and speech, and ensuring have not been hit in the head, which was the most sensitive, and
felt in different parts the skull, he said, 'No, no, gentlemen, touch Me and not find the slightest
bump. " Arms and legs, if at first seemed to have come out with fortune, for surely broken bone
I had to jump-start some horribly lame left leg, indeed, without doubt, the violent collision
with the ground. But the strangest thing was that, as he stood, broke into a gibberish, rash,
red face like a tomato, vibrant and breath language. They took him to his home by car, believing
that a complete rest will restore; frotáronle entire body with arnica, I went to bed, they
were ... But damn, as they after the patron said he had no sooner
left alone, dressed himself hastily, and fell to street was home to
Boto, and he stayed there until very late getting to everyone, and
leading to the peaceful insolence intemperate parishioners.

As this was contrary Frasquito the placid nature, and his shyness and good education, which
surely had disturbance severe brain because of the bump.

It is not known where he spent the rest of the night: it is believed that was stirring in the streets
of Midi Grande and Chica.

The fact is that shortly after arriving Polidura Antonio and home of Dona Francisca, took Frasquito
very excited, his face flushed, bright eyes, and with great surprise and dismay of the ladies,
began to drop in his mouth, a little crooked, outrageous nonsense. Combining skill with the force,
could get there and get back home, where they left him, ordering the employer to hold if could,
and to do for feeding. Among other monomaniacs toughness, was that of his honor demanded he seek
explanations for the unprecedented affront Moor presumably to say in public that he, Frasquito,
made the cut in Benin. More than twenty times tore Midi to Grand Street, trying to see Mr.
de Almudena, determined to give card, but the African slipped the package and would not let anyone
see it anywhere. Clear had gone to his country, fleeing from the fury of Ponte ... but he was
determined not to stop to discover, and force him to meet a gentleman,
but he hid in the last corner of the Atlas.

"If my lover venier Bunite - Moor said laughing so loudly, that the ends of His mouth caught on
the ears - to me he legs mochas.

- Poor D. Bottle ... wretched soul of God - Nina exclaimed clasping
her hands -.

I feared to stop this ...

- Valiente fright! - Said Juliana -.

What does it matter to us that this old wallpaper Whistle or not it nuts? Do you know what I
mean? Well, all that comes from drugs that is placed on the face, which are poisonous and attack
direction. Hey, do not waste your time. Antonio, go back to Imperial Street, tell them to
prepare everything, and I go to the car to see if fix it this afternoon. Nina, go with God, and
care not hit you ... You know? Oh, daughter, shall cling, even toilet you have! See? and start
to suffer the consequences of bad step ... by ignoring me. Doña Paca told me that I let you go there.
Wants to see: Poor lady! I gave my consent, and take you with me today I thought ... but I
do not dare, daughter, I do not dare. Having in between this plague, can not Rozart ... I had
you were given every day to collect the leftover food in the house that was your mistress.

-
And I do not ...?

- Yes, yes, the food is yours ... but ... see what to do ... you get to the portal to hours that
I set, and my cousin Hillary will bring it down and I will give ... coming at you at least I can
... You understand ... each has its qualms ... Not all stomachs are like yours, Nina, bombproof
... that ...

- I understand ... Lady Juliana. Stay with God. "

XL

Adversity and crashed in the heart of Benin, as the vague waves in
the robust cliff.

Rompíanse thundered, were broken, melted in white foam, and nothing else. Rejected by the family
that he had sustained in saddest days of misery and pain without story soon remake of the deep
trouble that caused him so notorious ingratitude; his conscience gave him unspeakable consolation: he
looked at life from the height at which his contempt of human vanity put it, saw the ridiculous
smallness beings around her, and spirit was big and strong. Had achieved glorious victory,
I felt victorious after have lost the battle on the ground material. More intimate satisfactions
of victory not deprived of his gift of government, and attentive to material things, came
in a little while depart from Juliana, to solve the most urgent as the life both body concerned.
It was crucial to seek shelter, then try to cure your scabies Mordechai or whatever, then
leave him in such a pitiable state would not do for anything in the world although she saw
the filthy infected wrong. And ran with him to Santa Casilda, and finding vacated the small
room occupied by the Moors with Petra, he took it. Fortunately, the drunk Diega had gone to live in the
Cava de San Miguel, behind the ladder.

Installed in that cache, which was not without comforts, the first thing that made the old
Alcarrian was to bring water, all the water he could, and wash and body soap, old habit in
it, that whenever he could practice at home of Dona Francisca. Then he wore clean. The welfare
cleanliness and freshness gave his body, somewhat confused with rest of his conscience, in which
he also felt something like absolute cleanliness and freshness comforting.

Then devoted himself to the arrangement of the house, and with the little money he had made
his purchase, and Mordechai prepared a good meal. They planned to bring the consultation the
following day, and so it said, showing the blind according to all with what she wanted the will
to determine. While they ate, entertained and encouraged him to hope and sweet words, offering
to go, as he wanted to Jerusalem or a little further, as regain health. Pending to take away
the rash, there was no need to think about travel. It would still, at home, she going to ask
for one every day to see get to live on, surely God not let them starve. So pleased the blind
conceived and proposed plan by his smart friends, and with his affectionate expressions, which
burst into singing the chant Arabic Benina already heard him in the landfill, but as to escape
the stoning had lost the small guitar, could not accompany the son of that rough instrument.
He then proposed to companion to cast incense, and she did it willingly, because the smog
and flavored saneaba poor room.

They left the next day for consultation, but as they nominate for this one-hour evening, entertained
the first half of the day pordioseando on several streets, always good care of the chili, not
to fall again in the hands of those who cast the tie to beggars, as if they were dogs and take them
to the warehouse, where they treated like dogs. It must be said that the ungrateful not come from Doña
Paca Nina woke up in hatred or malice, and that compliance with the ingratitude of this took away
the desire not to see the unhappy lady, who dearly wanted, as a partner of bitterness in many years.
Longed view, even if from afar, and brought this fondness, it was the street of Lettuce to
discern a discreet distance if the family was in the process of moving or had moved now. What
time has arrived! He was in the car door, and the boys got stuff in it with the barbarous quickly
that used in this operation.

From his vantage Benina recognized the decrepit furniture, bent, and could not contain his excitement
at seeing them. It was almost his, of its existence, and they saw, as in a mirror, the image
of their sorrows and joys; I thought that if approached, the poor tackle had to say something,
or cry with it. But what was strongly impressed to see out through the portal and Obdulia Dona
Paca, with Polidura and Juliana, as if it were a new home, while the maids are elegant remained in
the former, providing for collection and transportation of offal, and all the trash home.

Troubled and confused, Nina hid in a doorway, to see without being seen. What impaired Dona Francisca
found! He wore a new dress, but so heinous appearance, as cut and sewn in a hurry, it seemed
like the poor lady dressed in alms. Covered his head with a robe, and held a sombrerote Obdulia
with deformed flourish and feathers. Doña Paca walked slowly, staring at the floor, overwhelmed,
sad, as if carried by guards civilians. The girl laughed, chatted with Polidura. Juliana was
behind herding them all, and sending them they were in a hurry by the way that marked them.
No more than he needed to look like wood to that on Christmas Eve the streets leading flocks
of turkeys. How dawned despotism in the smallest movements! Doña Paca was the humble response
that goes where the lead, even at the slaughterhouse, Juliana and the shepherd who leads. Disappeared
the Plaza Mayor, the street of keypads ... Benina took steps to see
the sad cattle and when he lost it, wiped the tears flooding her face.

"Poor dear lady! - Said the blind man as he met him -.

I love her as a sister, because together we spent many penalties.

I was all for it, and it all for me. Forgive me my faults, I will forgive their own ... How
sad it is, perhaps thinking of how bad ported with Nina! It seems
that rheumatism is worse, so lame, and his face is not have eaten
in four days. I brought cherry-picked, I was cheating with good shade,
hiding our misery, and putting my face in shame for him to eat according
to what was his taste and custom ... In short, the past, and said
the other, it happened. Come on, Almudena, let's go here, and God
put you well soon to take the little road to Jerusalem, not and scares
me by far. Walking, walking, child, comes from a part of the world
to another, and if one hand we get the benefit of fresh air and see
new things, on the other we get the certainty that everything is the
same, and that parts of the world are a guess, as the world in together,
you say, that wherever people live, or verbigracia, women, be ingratitude,
selfishness, and ones that send to others and will catch them. As
we must do what conscience commands us, and let those who fight for
a bone, like dogs, the other over a toy, as children, or those by
bully, as older, and not to quarrel with anybody, and take what God
put us ahead, like the birds ... Come to the Hospital, and do not
be sad.

- Me not sad - said Almudena -; be satisfied tigo ... God
you know how things tudas and I quiries you and Angela Bunite ...
And if you do not want to marry me, this be your mother mine, and
I was a child Bunite yours.

- Well, man, that's fine.

- And you
com palm desert D'granda, Bunite thou zucena branca com ... Illyricum
you ... Telling me Amri you: my soul. 