 Screams of women, children Yoros, men na desi, but paresis Jech's will. And I
told passengers: "With you is not your na. Calm down, ladies Sallu cabayeros, and bon voyage ... To
see, to take that fat foot down. "And our man, who shrugged as if it were to hide under the skirts
of women, had come down, too white if would have been blood, eses hasiendo the same as if he
were drunk. It was the car, and we were alone in der way. "Hey, I'm the Plumitas, and I'll give
you somethin to you remember. "I gave him. But it was killed on. I gave in desert place I know
I, PA lived twenty-four hours even when being picked up by civil guards who was able desir Plumitas
who had killed him. So there was no other and could not be equivocasión importansia.

Doña Sol listened intensely pale, her lips tightened with fear and eyes the strange glow that
accompanied his mysterious thoughts.

Gallardo contorted face, bothered by this story fierce.

- Every one knows his Ofisi, Sr. Juan - Plumitas said, as if guessing what I thought -. The both
live in matá: Nah, you and I bulls kill people. There is only Nah, you is rich and the yeva
jembras parma and good, and I raged Many times of hunger, and I'll finish, if I neglected,
fact der a screen in the middle field, pa that I eat crows. But I do not know Ofisi wins, Sr. Juan!
Nah, you know where to give the bull pa come to the ground continued. I know where to give
a Christian who falls reondo pa, pa entoavía something lasting, and
pass raging pa remembering a few weeks der Plumitas, Quie not mess
with anybody, but who knows shake to those who mess with him.

Doña Sol again became curious about the number of their crimes.

- And dead? ... How many people have you killed?

- Nah, you make me dislike you, my lady, but because it is committed! ... I Believe toos agreement,
even though I haser memory. Maybe go pa thirty or thirty and sync:
I do not know well.

With so dragged down this path, who think yevar accounts? ... But I am a wretch, my lady, a
desgrasiao. CURP was aqueyos hisieron I bad. This of deaths is like cherries. Pull on one and
the others come back to ocena. Pa must kill to live, and if you feel bad, eat it.

There was a long silence. The lady looked short and stubby hands of the bandit, with gnawed
fingernails. But Plumitas paid no attention to the "Marquise". All his attention was to the sword,
wanting to express appreciation for having received at his table and fade the bad effect that
seemed to cause his words.

- I respect Nah, you, Senor Juan - added
-.

Denque bullfight I saw for the first time, I said "That's a brave
lad."

Afisionaos Nah, you have many who love him, but like me ...! Imagine I see that pa disfrasao
Many times and I've come in siudades exposed to throw me the glove. Is that afisión?

Gallardo smiling, nod, now flattered his pride as an artist.

- Aemás - continued the bandit - no one will say that I have come
to La Rinconada at pedaso asked nor of bread. Many times I was hungry
and I have made walking hard Farta serca Sinco of here, and today
entoavía occurred to me to spend the alambrao der farm. "The Senor
Juan is sagrao pa me (I said always). Earn money as I do: Exposing
the road. There dyeing fellowship ... " Because you fail to deny,
Senor Juan, that although you and I is a one desgrasiao presonages
of peorsito, the two are equal, the two played live with death