 

With this new walked for three days after he departed from neighboring villages to Constantinople,
and pitched his property be the river that the natives of the province
called Xerogipso.

And after two days he was there, around midnight, the announcement came as the Turks were nearly
full of great plunder.

Préparose Philes for battle, and at sunrise were found clearly and distinctly on both sides.

The
Turks with great haste put the cars around the captive and prey,
making his usual prayer so Gregoras account, and throwing dust on
their heads.

While fight, rushed to anemigo Philes, but he who ruled the right horn, killing his own hands
two Turks, was wounded in a foot of luck, that had to leave the battle.

This

so astounded people who fought on the side that was almost derailed, if Philes with its value
does not encourage them and stop.

Peleóse great time, but the victory leaned to the side of Phil, and the Turks routed and losers,
most of them having died in battle, fled.

Ensued the extent to which the Turks came to a castle where they had fortified. Philes continued
its victory, and in a few days he came to bring them site.

The Emperor knew Quando the good fortune of the day, sent some galleys of Genoese to keep close
to and pens that no relief could come to them. Seeing the Turks so desperate for have all closed
paths of their choice, decided to leave the castle at night, dying as men.

Phil came to him two thousand horses Tribal, and many Genoese, to press closer to the site. Turks
to see more powerful not moved Philes mind, before with new courage and brio, came by night and
attacked the quarterings the field, but were refuted and cast with
his great loss.

Another night they returned to try his fortune, and gave in stores Lodging of the tribe, which
became very badly treated. Finally resolved to remedy abandon the castle, and take back the sea where
they were the galleys of the Genoese, in whom they thought to find some mercy for them not offended.

Night
was very dark, and so many Turks are thinking about going to the sea, gave in the hands of the Greeks,
who were killed mercilessly. Others came to the language of water, says Nicephore The Genoese
killed many, and many captives, but Montaner adds that this vnder was word that would go down
without hurting them Natoli, and that when they had them within their galleries, they threw chain
and killed. Since this is, the Turks colleagues from the Catalans and Aragonese ended on this
day, after having them alone disturbed the Empire about three years, retiring five hundred miles
out there, or little least, from Athens to Gallipoli, and even to destroy them, with so few,
there Andronico to avail themselves of the tribal, and Latinos, and
yet it was a miracle that God worked through Phil, because when they
saw Miguel desvaratado and defeated, I felt that we would not be Human
strong enough to resist, but had to come to the divine.

CHAPTER LXX.

In some events of the Catalans and Aragonese in Athens.

The Catalans and Aragonese and insurance firm and in the provinces
of Athens, and Boeotia, gobernaronse Roger Deslau some time, as above
diximos, but shortly after, or death of Roger, because they got tired
of his government, and had been placed, sent ambassadors to King Don
Frederic, whom he loved from the heart, for more injuries and less
price than he had received, and begged them were served Prince and
Lord to govern.

The King with the ambassador gave himself for feeling satisfied with the past because he would
not admit the Infante D. Fernando his nephew in his name. But as Rocafort, who was had indeed
that was the author of this council, was already dead, and now offered him the same as a then
pretended not passed on their anger, even though I understand that
most live his despondency was not as good dexára lose his opportunity
to increase child a state so big.

Don King took his advice Fadrique the person who would send them,
and then seemed Infante Manfredo appoint his second son by Prince
and Lord of those states, and swore that the ambassadors on behalf
of the entire company