 With him! A priest comes by night in doorways whispering with beautiful
women and elegant! Ugh! Would be ashamed to do so. Obdulia was quite sure a woman talking to her
confessor was cute. This assurance was torturing. Of course that if he had the audacity to come
to talk, give him a cold shoulder from the fat, I would back. And confess again with D. Narciso.
And tell his friends in what situation you had seen a lady unknown and elegant. Because there
was no doubt who was dressed elegantly While he had repaired. Long coat that was not done in Peñascosa.
Who would? Some Lancia, sure, that would pay him a visit. And why do you come from afar to visit
a priest, not his mother or his sister or his debt? Do not you know that lady that fame Priests
are very delicate and anything bankruptcy? The brain of the young did not stop spinning and
turning these ideas and the like, while his body remained motionless, dejected, staring stubbornly
at the hands of Ms Marciala, leaving no a time when his sock. He felt ill, wanted to leave but
a vague hope that he could not define the retained despite himself.

Meanwhile Fr Norberto was surprised and confused by the unusual attention
of it was subjected by Candida.

The poor man was not accustomed to being the lavish. The fair sex of her professed disdain
Peñascosa compassionate. Teníasele by a priest virtuous, but very short-sighted. His own companions,
when they talked about it, they did while the protective lips half smiling, half-mocking. For
the ladies, virtue Fr Norberto was not poetry, it lacked the charm that other priests becomes
contagious, was a pedestrian under that did not translate into delicate and sublime concepts as
in P. Narciso, P. Gil et al. So rare was the girl who confessed to him not least that felt
like it had the taste in conversation or envelop in clouds of incense, Candida as he did at that
time. His own inclination to rescue the lost sluts, much they respected, was not sympathetic
to the ladies. Truth that he spent admirably Without this sympathy and did not detract from fat each
day and spend my life laughing. Flattery he was pouring his ear with his new daughter insinuating
voice of confession, instead of pleasing, troubled him, annoyed him visibly. It was one of the few times
he could seriously seen lounging. It was grinding the seat, changing position every minute, and
Knuckles crackled hands in a formidable, coughed, blushed, and occasionally let out of the throat with
a slight snort alarmed protested his modesty. Finally, as requested strongly by the sweet prospect
of sitting, took a break from the maiden to rise and say a little twisting hips by way of greeting:

-
With your permission, Miss.

As distressing situation that left his face and dilated blood reappeared in it the universal benevolent
smile which was his principal ornament.

Arrival the group where they were Counsellor, D. Martin, Osuna and
another military gentleman was greeted Lancia with joy.

- I present
- said D. Stranger to his friend Martin, lowering his voice and glancing
suspiciously around to make sure his wife could not hear him - the
father Norbert, a priest who will be able report all the huts of the
people, if you want to know any.

- Oh, oh! D. Martin, by God!

-
Dare you to say they do not know!

- Well, yes ... some know ... Unfortunately,
I need to enter them once ...

- This man is dedicated to the lost
youth - continued D. Martin, addressing his companion, smiling in
amazement.

- Jesus!

Consider, D. Martin, who this gentleman does not know me ...

- But that knows you talk.

Ms Eloisa, by far, cast glances of terror to her husband, noting the confusion of D. Norberto and
the laughter of others.

- Well - continued Mr. de las Casas, becoming cautious and conciliatory,
- I will not tell, D. Norbert, you go with bad idea to these houses
of iniquity, but what always argue is that it is you provide a great
service: you're making a killing.

- How, how? - Scared the cleric
asked.

- Very simple, helping to raise the price of the commodity.

Recall the example Carmen the zapatillera ...

This was a girl whom
Fr Norberto had managed to get a house of prostitution and lead to
a convent.

After some time he went out and returned to the bad life.

D. became Norberto to persuade her to repent, and again she came and gave asylum to vice.

- And what does that matter? ...

- I'll explain, Father, I will explain ... Meet you ... When you catechized Carmen, I do not deny that
the merchandise was quite undervalued and ...

- I do not know!

What things have you, D. Martin! - Said the cleric embarrassed.

- I know, father, I know.

Well, after he spent a year there and a bit fatter in the convent
and became surrounded by an aura of honesty, the price rose significantly.

You take it back when I was a bit estropeadilla and demand had diminished to a point raised
fears for the bucolic, and now it comes again chubby and sanctified
is quoted again as in their heyday.

- Jesus!

Jesus! Go all for God - said the priest covered their ears, but not angry .-- you will be very
bad, D. Martin.

Ms Eloisa, it warned that what was happening, finally rose from his
chair and came toward them, asking in a bad mood:

- Do not play today
ombre?

- Here we go, here we go - her husband said, stifling laughter
that flowed from the body, such as others.

They sat Adviser, D. Norbert and he was at table, and soon block out
all worldly sounds fascinating under the influence of the sword, the
bad and the rough.

Shortly after Councillor gnashed his teeth and mustache pulled cruelly, being twice followed with
three clubs, his personal enemy. Many years ago that had declared a war to death. Every time I
came to the hands, twitched Chief, swore silently like a trooper. The three of clubs, malicious
and cunning as any other card, enjoyed apparently irritated him, and whenever he could sneak nicely
in the pile he distributed.

Not only in the party, but in the whole village was known this antipathy. Some, with certain precautions,
of course, because D. Romualdo easy shooting I teased her.

On one occasion, angling behind the church, pulled in hook a card that turned out to be the three
of clubs.

He had no doubt that he had thrown there on purpose, but said nothing
so as not to laugh.

Osuna meantime had gone to rub a little against Ms Eloisa. Among all the ladies attending that
gathering there were only two fat, Ms Teodora and Ms Eloisa. Was also good meat Ms Rita, but it
was soft, yellow. Other "pure Scotland," as he called the skinny, referring to cod. So there
was no end to our contempt Hunchback professed that degenerate society and exhausted from adipose
tissue. Just going by there to find his daughter, or materially did not know where to shelter. Ms
Eloisa looked sympathetic (as I watched all the good lady) the passion that the monster seemed
feel to it. When you are too close, gently parted without extinction so his kindly smile.
Ms Teodora Instead you had a great fear, real fear. The same approach was Osuna, who was already
suffocating caste buxom, restless, color it was and another was coming. But such was the shame
he felt, had not declared to his own father's dirty insinuations misshapen. What is the difference
between this indecent and serene, majestic and romantic D. Juan Casanova! D. Ni Peregrin could
compare with, to be the latter, by way of the mature girl, a subject
much more voluptuous and land.

D. Pilgrims had arrived, as usual, in the past. And if the gathering is not warned most strident
of nasal snorts, as infinitely more solemn blink and the serious way to put a leg over the other
and lean back to something important, important, had to communicate was that he did not want
to notice. He waited patiently, like all men sure of success, to have a break, and when he arrived,
he uttered with his shrill voice, piercing, turning to the lady of the house:

- Do not you know whom I have just seen entering the house of his brother, accompanied by excused?

A
Obdulia he jumped so hard the heart that thought hit the ground. Other, including Ms Eloisa,
looked up curiously.

- Who was that?

- Your sister Joaquina - cried more that said former acting governor of Tarragona, as announced
Judgement Day.

Deep stupor throughout the party.

- My sister! - Exclaimed.

- His own sister - confirmed D. Peregrin with trumpeting horrid.

- There can be - said Ms Eloisa.

- There can be - said her husband,
suspending the game.

- There can be - repeated Ms Serafina Barrado.

The ex-governor of Tarragona let out through the nose some deafening
snorts as an engine that displaces the excess steam, and said:

-
Do you think, gentlemen, I have no eyes in his head?

This momentous question, accompanied by the appropriate frown, produced
enough impression among the switches.

- Well you could have been
mistaken - said the invalid.

- It's so easy! - Said Ms Eloisa.

-
I've seen as you see them now, three steps away.

I came to talk to the clerk to the issue of the anniversary of my
father, when the hole street Quadrant I to P. Gil with a lady who
seemed a stranger.

I wanted to know who he was, and I paused a little near the lantern,
hiding behind a doorway.

It was Joaquin, no doubt. I waited a bit and followed with his eyes until he entered the house
of Montesinos.

- But you know well? - Asked P. Narciso.

- The same as you.

- Peregrin, please note that you have not done more than a visit to Madrid, and the night, as
I've said - she said timidly D. Juan.

The ex-governor threw his brother a look of unutterable contempt.

- John, do not put the leg.

- Peregrin I do not know why ...

- John! ...

- Peregrin! ...

- Do not the goal!

Not the goals! A lady that I saw after visiting another portion times in the street, and I welcomed.
Therefore, I feel the sad need to show yourself what you just said is an impertinence. When assured
that I knew this lady, is because the know. I never talk to smoke with straw. If I were a man
light and baseless could not occupy the positions I have occupied. Sírvate of government.

- Now I remember - Candida said, - today I have seen alighting from the coach to a blond lady with
a very elegant dress.

D. Peregrin shrugged with a gesture of disdain, as if to say: 'What
you come in my support to counter the absurdities of this fool?

"

That data and concluded that gesture to annihilate D. John, whose face expressed dejection. But
Ms Theodora, with her large calm eyes, he plunged a look so warm that the factions knight, contracted
with grief, went gradually dilating, and a placid concluded by a melancholy smile on his lips
disappear. The head of D. Peregrin, however, was instantly crossed by a portion of wrinkles.
The undeniable superiority was about his brother, what he used? The better showing in front of the
fresh ham, the more it was inclined to favor.

Right the trial judge Tarragona when he said that the woman was a tissue of contradictions.

Obdulia
felt an intense joy, infinite, we fell in streams within the soul. His body, enervated, unable
to move, suddenly became the lightness of a bird. I wanted to go promptly in this room and ride
the air and sing their joy. Anyone could see the change in her. The obstinate silence followed
by a loquacious lying extreme a chat, pointless, interspersed with laughter that was happy strange,
venting the emotion that seized, stretching his cramped nerves. Neither knew what he was saying, or
Ms Philomena, who was talking, he learned not attentive to see the face smart Fr Narciso and enjoy
the brilliance of his jokes. Soon throat felt dry and unusual warmth in her cheeks. The Lancia
Knight, who was there remarked, he hastened to inform Osuna, that his daughter's eyes were black
and shiny and to sit very well embodied rosettes that had taken heat in the face.

The news had been feeling at all. There were few who knew where his wife Montesinos, although
everyone knew the incidents of marital drama that he had withdrawn the Peñascosa entailed estate.
But what was just curious strangers, the good Dona Eloisa offered, of course, with the appearance
of deep and profound emotion. Intended course to find out what happened at his brother, later sought
to be her husband, wanted send a servant. A whole opposed D. Martin, seeing things more coldly,
comprised any step of these at the moment was inopportune. The conversation was extremely animated,
to the point that ombre suspended the game and took part in it. Comments that were made infinite. Thousand
scenarios were forged on the case. Some felt that the wife sorry, came to apologize to her husband, others
who made the trip just to claim of food, others that his intent was to formalize sue for divorce,
others had called her husband, unable to banish from his heart the love that the professed (Most
of the female element was inclined to this assumption), other than P. Gil, motu own, had written
to Ms Joaquin and had prepared the scene, so that D. Álvaro forgive her, others who had persuaded
him to that calling Peñascosa. Missing or not who assumed that D. Alvaro and his wife had long
corresponded, and it was she who refused to come to visit him until the present time.

- Anyway, what is beyond doubt is that the P. Gil has a very major intervention in the case
because he owns the glory of Reconciliation - said gravely D. Narciso.

-
If so - said Director.

- The will - said the chaplain .-- The will,
and here D. Maybe Martin will soon taste see a nephew who will distract
you with their antics and their thanks.

D. Martin, who his hero's soul did not detract from having a great
desire to inherit the brother, whose health was feeble, wrinkled his
nose and muttered rudely:

- I do not care.

- I do not think I can
not believe it, D. Martin.

You can not fail to cheer the noble Montesinos home is not extinct, that anyone honorably carry
this name ... Then has to look good that big house with a few guys
who rejoice with laughter and shouts.

The work of Father Gil is the most meritorious that has taken place, and why has made very good.

Obdulia
stabbed an angry look, but tempered suddenly said with a smile innocent

- You have nothing to envy, Don Narciso. Who does not remember the town's many marriages through
it are now well-matched? Without going any further, everyone knows that D. Feliciano wanted
very little to Ms. Nieves ... and as you see today are like two chicks.

This D. Feliciano was the husband who was said in secret, had broken
a leg P. Narciso throwing down the stairs.

Bystanders looked uneasily. There was an awkward silence. Counselor dropped the laughter, and exclaimed,
putting a letter on the table, as referring to the game:

- Come on, you return the other!

Everyone understood that the father was going Narciso, and this increased
concern.

The cleric blushed and whispered:

- Thank you.

We all have an obligation ...

- You go beyond the obligation, father ... Often what you do is pure
devotion - said Osuna's daughter with charming simplicity.

- Yoho
- she cried Director, staring at cards.

- What is it, D. Romualdo?
- Asked laughing D. Norberto .-- Have you played the three of clubs?

-
Yes, sir, but I take comfort that there are clubs for everyone.

-
Well, I have none - replied the priest candid.

- Another will receive!

-
We do all we can, but there is no doubt that some are stronger than
others.

Fr Gil is a saint, an apostle of the early days of the Church. None of us has the presumption of competing
with him in zeal or wisdom - expressed D. Joaquin, coming in aid
of his friend, with a chuckle poison that would jump a stone.

- In
wisdom you may have reason, D. Joaquin - Obdulia strongly replied,
- but zeal, I think you are wrong.

You're too modest ... There is flatter, but in the case of jealousy,
I think you're as jealous as the first, right, Dona Serafina?

A grunt escaped all strange point at the time of the throat of Director,
to which was immediately followed by a violent fit of coughing that
left him breathless by some seconds.

D. Joaquin also felt some itching in the throat, forcing him to cough
back head.

Ms Serafina did not answer the question, because I was distracted talking to Ms Eloisa.

The conversation veered, as if tacitly all agreed that this was dangerous. Soon after he ceased
to be general, and returned to form the usual cliques

.