 As for the French, it is not necessary say that
as we had so many losses. Except for the four ships that were removed with Dumanoir not going to fire
stain in a long time could not shake the Imperial Navy, heroically leading our allies in the
battle. Villeneuve, wishing to forget his faults in a single day, tirelessly fought to the end and
was taken prisoner Gibraltar. Many commanders were captured by the English, and some died. Their
ships the same fate as ours: some retreated to Gravina, others were captured, and many were
lost on the coasts. The Achilles flew in combat, as I indicated in my relationship.

But despite these disasters, our ally, the proud French, not as expensive
as paid Spain consequences of that war.

If I lost the flower of their navy, ground reached in those same days noisy triumphs. Napoleon
had been transported in a short time the great army from the shores of the Channel to Central
Europe, and put in execution the colossal plan of campaign against Austria. On 20 October, a day
before Trafalgar, Napoleon witnessed in the field of Ulm the parade of the Austrian troops, whose generals
handed him his sword, and two months later, on December 2 of that year, winning in fields
of Austerlitz the most brilliant action of his reign.

These successes in France eased the loss of Trafalgar, Napoleon himself
ordered the newspapers not to speak of the matter, and when he realized
his relentless victory enemies the British, merely shrugged his shoulders
saying, "I can not be everywhere.

"

-XVII-

I tried to delay the time to introduce myself to my master, but in
the end, hunger, nakedness where I was and the lack of asylum, forced
me to go.

My heart, as I approached the house Dona Flora, pounding so hard that every step I stopped
to catch his breath. The great pity that announcing was going to cause the death of young Malespina,
weighed on my soul with sorrow so awful that if I had been responsible for this disaster, I
have felt more anxious. Finally arrived, and entered the house. My presence in the yard produced
a great sensation, I felt strong steps in the upper galleries, and had not yet had time saying
a word, when I embrace. I quickly recognize faces Doña Flora, more pintorreado day that an
altarpiece, and disfigured with ferocious joy that my presence had on the spirit of the excellent
old. The sweet names of bud, Remon, angel, and others who lavished me with all liberality,
not made me smile. I went and all were in motion. I heard my master say, 'There he is! Thank
God. " I went into the room, and Dona Francisca came forward to me asking me with mortal anxiety:

"And
D. Rafael? What has become of D. Rafael? "