 Meanwhile, the capital of the republic was in a state of continuous alarm,
as the slaves of Curiepe and other parts of the coast and the eastern valleys, the pretext of defending
the rights of Ferdinand VII, from June 24, which had taken arms, walked committing all manner of
outrages, outrages and humiliations with the most ferocious vandalism, and Monteverde was moving
there, after leaving some troops in front to Victoria.

At the point that the enemy movement was taking place, a new disappointment ponia Bolivar in
imminent danger to the republic. The last day of June, the militia officer Francisco Fernandez
Vinoni, with some troops, the prison and several inmates of state, proclaimed Ferdinand VII,
peaking at the castle of San Felipe de Puerto-Cabello a red flag and after some fruitless summons
was breaking its artillery fire against the square. In such a critical situation and beside himself
with an event that would perhaps decide the fate the country, trying to sustain Bolivar however,
and did so for three days, but know that the Spanish and Valencia were headed to their jobs
there and advanced passed the enemy, before leaving Puerto-Cabello wanted to tempt fortune and
control to meet 200 men with colonels Mires and Jalon. They were defeated at San Esteban and having
been imprisoned the last seven soldiers just back beside the first Bolivar.

With 40 men who were, after having surrendered the people of Puerto-Cabello
fearing the ruin of the population, the worthy chief still try to
defend themselves outside from Trincheron, but not counting the day
6 but 8 officers in his service, he embarked with Borburata them,
arrived in La Guaira and communicate it to Miranda in Caracas, some
days later, incidents as unfortunate event.

So I knew the Generalissimo, proposed to Monteverde, who was in Valencia, a suspension of hostilities,
but the general Spanish in reply offered to grant a capitulation; who accepted in principle by Miranda
will soon receive this in the conditions, then of tight, led to some
differences.

But pressed by the ratified Monteverde Miranda on July 25 of that year, the 1812, being the Confederation,
according to chapters as well as weapons and other military objects held by the Spanish general Warranty
of respect for persons, whatever may have been their conduct and opinions during the revolution.

The
next day the Spanish troops penetrated the Victoria, and three later in Caracas, they fled some
patriots with intent to engage in La Guaira, and among those who so rushed, unreliable compliance
with the terms, are also the unfortunate Generalissimo of the Venezuelan Confederation ephemeral.

CHAPTER
IV

Bolivar embarked for Curacao and Trojans Tyrians .-- .-- .-- Constitution of 1812 Plot number
young patriots .-- Marino and Bermudez de Zuazola Atrocities .-- Its consequences .-- .-- Site
Maturin revive .-- .-- The Revolution Bolivar in Cartagena .-- Principia to execute their plans .--
Step Zulia rises to brigadier .-- .-- .-- Venezuela penetrates to
death .-- War .-- Proclamation .-- New Achievements Entry .-- wins
Bolivar in Caracas.

Bolivar, whose encouragement accustomed from childhood to major setbacks and whose love of country
not struck in any circumstance, which dominated so cruelly hung over the town Venezuela for the idea
of ??saving and one day shake the heavy yoke that came to enslave again, trying to keep, and thanks to the friendship
of the Spanish Don Francisco Iturbe, who enjoyed great favor near
Monteverde, obtained a boarding pass and then for Curacao.

The termination of the bell brought the rift between the captain general Miyares and Monteverde
which refused to recognize his authority in the countries of the retrieved for Spain, giving
result in the dismissal of the first and the elevation of the superior dignity pacifier Venezuela.
Then, claiming that it conspired again, arrested many distinguished
Americans.

Miranda followed many months in the prisons of Puerto-Cabello, where he was transferred Cadiz and
bound to the array of Ratchet, that in time she saw him die on day 14 May 1816. Juan Pablo Ayala,
Madariaga, Mires and Roscius, venerable patriots were also sent to Spain and then locked up in
prisons in Africa.

The Spanish Constitution, sworn in Cadiz for Fernando VII, was published by Monteverde December
3 and adopted, five days later, by the people and clergy. But some young people patriotic,
full of courage and desperation, conceived the project of surprising,
landing in La Guaira, the task was realistic that there whose force
consisted of 300 men, gueirenos most.

Elected as head of the rich Margarita Santiago Marino, who for The surprise attack had not
tried it with the insignificant number of six guns. No But when the time to act, the garrison of
the port, leaving their chiefs, joined with the Venezuelans.

Soon Marine forces, conveniently distributed between, and Jose Bernardo Bermudez Francisco, defeated
troops and occupied Cerveris Maturin, whose garrison fled as Bermudez then as occurred in its
vicinity. With no less rapidly, leading forces by order of the captain-general in command of
Don Antonio Zuazola beat the Patriots, first in Magueyes, and March
16, 1813 in Aragua.

This leader not only shot the prisoners he did, but showed the greatest inhumanity to kill harmless
sending women to venerable elderly and innocent children.

Part of the defeated and many other patriotic irritated proceed in view of Zuazola, took refuge
in Maturin, where Azcue Piar and sent during the absence of Bermudez, whose Chiefs managed just
500 men upset in a way that made the plaza, 1,500 commanded by Don Lorenzo de la Hoz, after rejecting
a still larger forces, and putting the captain general in the case
presented in the theater of war to lead by itself operations.

Monteverde, in view of Maturin and with more than 2,000 men, intimate the surrender of the square
at the end of two hours, otherwise, otherwise deliver it to the fury of his soldiers. The reply
was: "That the people of Maturin was determined to perish in defense of homelands freedoms. "Then
there was a sustained and bitter fighting on both sides retiring
at the end the Spaniards lost 500 men killed on the battlefield among
which there were 27 officers, and leaving the enemy Monteverde five
canons, many arms and ammunition, their own baggage and more than
6,000 silver dollars.

This memorable feat of arms was taking place on 25 May, and since that time the revolution
took on new life. Meanwhile General San Martin also ahead in the cause of independence Buenos-Aires,
and everything seemed to announce the days of prosperity to America. The downcast spirit public
rose again, leaving as the wonder of a terrible kind Dream to Reality of life, when the fair
Bolivar, whom the Spanish Government had confiscated the goods, they
were great, before the latest events mentioned are presented in Cartagena
in the first days of October 1812, decided to sacrifice their lives
for the sake of the homeland for freedom and greatness.

He was accompanied by the brothers Miguel, Manuel Cortes Campomanes Fernando Carabano, Jose Felix
Ribas and several distinguished officers.

The plan that guided their steps, regarded even by the less suspicious as impossible, was that of
giving freedom to Venezuela with the help of New Granada, which to some extent had followed the
same place in their revolution against the Spanish royalists. In Cartagena obtained the command of
a small force, which went up by the banks of the Magdalena, and after having broken several items
of enemy troops in various parts of that river, from Ocana apply for government permission to
go to Cartagena Cucuta.

Obtained the consent, with great hope and excitement began its work, the brave caudillo. Request
aid from the government of Cundinamarca, which provided 500 men, and launched with the intention
of reaching Caracas under its offer. Spanish Colonel Don Ramon Correa could have up to about
4,000 men guarding that part the Venezuelan border. But Bolivar, making use of ingenious extratagemas,
supported by people with false relations spies, made the enemy to
abandon some strong positions so coming to the view of San Jose de
Cucuta, where Correa had concentrated more than 800 men.

At dawn on February 28, 1813 Simon Bolivar occupy the heights west of San IBTS Jose, for whose operation
had to cross the mighty Zulia with a miserable canoe and falling on the Spanish troops, after
throwing their positions, holding the step of completely defeated, occupied their artillery,
rifles and ammunition had few Strap into the town, and retiring to the screams, the valleys were home
free. The Use of brigadier, the title of citizen of the Union, and
also the chief command of the division, Cucuta, were the rewards given
to Bolivar by such signal triumph.

United their forces that brought Colonel Manuel Castillo, a military commander of Pamplona,
??amounted and about 1,200 ammunition and men well armed. With 800 stressed the colonel said who
attacked Correa, who on April 13 was forced to leave the narrowness of the Cries where he was
well entrenched. Bolivar then headed to Venezuela with their meager forces, but with good officers.
Among these was in the more general class of the expedition Venezuela's
Rafael Urdaneta, Jose Felix Ribas brave young man and the commander
Athanasius Giraldot, as well as the captain Luciano D'elute.

These last were two bizarre Granada. In Cucuta were Joaquin Ricaurte, deputy chief of the army,
Francisco de Paula Santander and some others.

The Venezuelan leader was greeted at Merida with a great show of appreciation and enthusiasm
the day first of June. There conceived the greatest, the most important and momentous thoughts
revolutionaries. Since the beginning of the war were condemned to death by the Spanish few
individuals fell into their power, with weapons in hand, while the South American headquarters gave
his enemies. This advantageous situation to that natural places in the hard trance to serve,
preferably from joining the ranks realistic.

So war to the death was the great thought which was to give Venezuela its independence desired.
Before his resolution to print a solemn character, was limited at the moment to publish a proclamation,
dated June 8, in which the enemy launched a war threat extermination if they continued to use
the prisoners as severely as before. And then marched on Trujillo, where I come Giraldot without
encountering the slightest resistance.

Less than a month suffice to Bolivar to win two Venezuelan provinces, freeing by an uninterrupted series
of victories vast country that mediates between Tenerife and Trujillo, from where the last
point, the July 15 announcement of republic from the solemn resolution that that day adopted,
declaring war to death against the country armed enemies. "Spaniards and Canary Islanders, he
said in his manifesto, count on death even indifferent, if not actively
work for the freedom of America.

Americans count on life even if guilty. "

The next day, at the foot of the mountain range that separates the region of the plains Niquitao
of Varinas, at a point called the Mesitas, Urdaneta officers and attacked with 550 Ribas men
to a realistic body comprising 800 soldiers win after a tough battle which lasted from nine
in the morning until five in the afternoon. Some 450 prisoners and all weapons of the royalists
were in possession of the victors.

This victory followed that of Horcones, name of the territory that came back to defeat Ribas the
Spaniards and is located between the Tocuyo and the city of Barquisimeto. Finally, disrupting here
and there, few obstacles were opposed to its passage, August 7 at
the Simon Bolivar triumphal entry into Caracas, victor by a large
and enthusiastic people who greeted him with the glorious name of
freedom of their country.

CHAPTER V

Location independent party, - Implications of making and firing Cumana
Bernardo Bermudez .-- Puerto-Cabello Website Retaliation .-- .-- .--
Reinforcement Spanish troops Death of Granada .-- It is a brave fellow
avenged .-- .-- Combat Mosquito Bolivar is appointed commander in
chief of the army and called Liberator wins .-- New weapons Republican
Monteverde .-- .-- The effects on the Liberator realizes its operations
Caracas people .-- .-- Continuing Weekend victories several notable
patriots .-- Heroic Trait Ricaurte .-- .-- The Siege of Valencia independents
situation is worse .-- Battle .-- futile attempt Carabobo .-- .--
Flops sad spectacle of emigration .-- Boves is declared first Spanish
army chief of his first acts .-- .-- .-- Unhappy combat Deliberation
.-- Aragua Bolivar and Marine boats to Margaret .-- The sacred deposit.

Before

continuing the account of the events that followed the entrance of
the Venezuelan leader in Caracas, is necessary to look to the state
they were Republicans.

Two contained different factions within the party that fought for the cause of independence.
One, in favor of the provincial divisions, struggled for the triumph of federalism while the other, clinging
to the principle of unity as the only means of force and consistency, aspired to the concentration
of power in government. On top of this, full of the most deep conviction, was Simon Bolivar.
Such was the independent state of Venezuela, after the reaction provoked by the successes that
had obtained weapons from the landing Marino, in early 1813, with refugees in Chacachacare, islet
belonging to the English government of Trinidad.

After this courageous achievement Margarita Cumana grab aided by a countryman, Colonel Juan Arismendi, Margarita
first military authority from the June 5, when his last proclamation
in favor of independence, Anton, seriously wounded, fled to die Curacao.

About the same time, taken prisoner by the royalists had Bernardo Bermudez been shot by order
of Cerveris, but picked up with the same boss ordered life murder in his own bed at the tidings
of the victory achieved by Marino, who then added this laurel on the capture of Barcelona.

This event forced the boss who defended the city, the quarterback Don Juan Manuel Cajigal to withdraw
to Guyana, and among the officers who accompanied him, Francisco Tomas Morales and Jose Tomas
Boves, later acquired great celebrity, launched from that time, the head of a division of cavalry, to
go in the middle of a thousand chances the plains of Caracas. Turning now to continue to Bolivar in
his expedition, saying before he fled to shut Monteverde Puerto-Cabello as soon as he knew that,
encouraged by his courage, his genius and fortune, Valencia approached.

A

year to that in the cells at Puerto-Cabello Jalon brave prisoner groaned, and Bolivar, save
both as to humiliate Monteverde, laid siege to the square with troops Urdaneta and Ribas division,
commanded by Giraldot. In one of the outputs that the Zuazola trying plaza fell prisoner and immediately
proposed Bolivar cange to Jalon The proposal was rejected by Monteverde, who persisted in his
conduct of not wanting to deal enemies. This and the Monteverde have shot some prisoners forced
the Venezuelan leader Zuazola order to pay their outrages being hanged in front of the plaza.
Cruel reprisals followed by the siege.

About 1,200 men landed under the command of Colonel Salomon, came to the aid of Monteverde September
l6, and Bolivar, raising the site, went to Valencia. A few days, the captain general and he
pursued the assailants and highlighted a force Barbula occupied the hill, on the spur of the mountains
of Guataparo, and 50 of the same month Giraldot columns, D'elute and Urdaneta attacked the Spanish
art, and climbing the mountain they placed the gun to arm routed the enemy, making him a large number
of prisoners.

In this Giraldot gallant glorious action, while the tricolor flag planted on more strong position
of the royalists, wounded by a bullet fell to rise no more.

Then the Grenadian soldiers to avenge the death of his heroic countryman asked Bolivar and obtained
from the formation of a separate body, and D'elute, at the head of a thousand brave Spaniards
defeated at a place called the Trenches, crowned by a complete victory, of which result, wounded in
the face by a bullet, he fled to close in Monteverde Puerto-Cabello. The site of the square was restored
again and Giraldot avenged the third day of his death.

A week later, on October 11, Lt. Col. Elias Campo met some forces a thousand rifle with which,
under the orders of Bolivar, Coro had left, and having aide to 1,200 horses, since the orders
of Michael Ustariz, achieved a splendid Victory at the site of about 2,000 riders Mosquito and 500
laborers who sent Boves and Morales, who, accompanied by only thirty horse men took refuge
in Guayabal on the left of Apure. The head of the Spanish infantry, Francisco Tomas Morales,
left seriously wounded in the battle.

The same day that the republican arms are marked with a glorious fact, met civil authorities in Caracas
and the council in the middle of the Victors, applause and cheers the people, and in agreement
conferred on Simon Bolivar employment captain general of the army and title LIBERATOR OF VENEZUELA.
But the famous leader not slept on his laurels or interrupted for
a moment the progress of its operations, and directing the general
Ribas who came from Caracas, Valencia went on, and on November 25,
with 2,000 men aged Infants and horsemen; clog the movement attempted
by the division of Salomon on the heights of Vijirima, and beating
it to great advantage, forced her to retire to Puerto-Cabello.

Of Salomon ten days there sought a rematch in Araure with far superior forces in number, and
the republican arms, led by Bolivar himself, obtained a marked victory, therefore, with very few
losses, took the train all the enemy's military, which fled leaving the field more than a thousand
dead.

On this bright day gave evidence heroic General Urdaneta, Colonel Florencio Palacios, Lt. Col. Manuel
Manrique, Elias Campo captains, Briceno, Ribas Davila Villapol, Matthew
Salcedo, and several other Republicans.

The soldiers deserved to grace your head, that made all the more praise in the detailed part
of this brilliant action. These losses brought discouragement and mistrust in the Spanish ranks,
and 28 December proponents of Puerto-Cabello Square, dismissed the remote Monteverde Eleven days later
he withdrew to hide their humiliation in Curacao.

Bolivar returned to Caracas, and making the political governor convene Cristobal Mendoza corporations,
most notable neighbors and, finally, to all parents, 2 January 1814, at the convent of San Francisco,
before an immense crowd, he realized administrative acts of his dictatorship and I hope the
verdict of the people. A governor's proposal among the most lively, enthusiastic and prolonged
acclamation, were confirmed at the Libertador powers until there had been invested, and fill
with joy, headed phrases, gratitude to the Venezuelan people for the confidence with which
he was honored.

Then departed for the battlefield, and after that Ribas Boves courageously rejected in Victoria on
February 12, putting their troops in dispersion, while having to regret among other loss of the
distinguished Ribas Davila, 28 the same month, alone 1,800 men by Bolivar and 7,000 by Boves,
overcome this was to leave the field of action, which was the San Matthew, after having cost
the Republicans the victory 203 men killed and wounded. Among the first he had to regret the
brave Villapol and two other officers, and among the latter had,
with Campo Elias, 30 other officers, but the loss of the enemy was
much higher.

Ricaurte garrisoned at the top of a hill near San Matthew a house belonging to Bolivar and
intended to serve park. The forces at his disposal was not able to cope strong attack underlined
column Boves against the house, and knowing that their resistance would be useless, it outputs
its soldiers, left alone, set fire to the park and destroyed equipment so the enemy, being buried in
the rubble.

In late March the royalists laid siege to Valencia with 4,000 men
Don Jose Cevallos refresh was bringing the province of Coro, but not
artillery.

The city was defended as the first chief of Urdaneta, Juan Escalona
as second, and as governor Mirror Doctor political. Taborda commander
directed the batteries. After several incidents, always advantageous to
the besieged, on April 5, withdraw its forces at the foot of Morro besieging
the head disappeared down the road of Tocuyito. Bolivar entered the
square of the same day, accompanied by some officers, and pay taxes
after the heroic defenders praise that deserved headed over Puerto-Cabello.

Because
of the scarcity of resources and some mayhem in the space of one month
had experienced patriots, his situation was beginning to become somewhat
embarrassing. Cagigal in person commanded the army that had brought
Cevallos, and actively harassed Republican when resolved on May 16 Bolivar
present battle, which verified the next day Tocuyito in the fields, unable
 to get anything for having blocked the action heavy rain,
and 18 retired quietly encamped on the outskirts of Valencia.

Ten days later, Bolivar's huge resources deployed his military genius presenting
combined a good battle plan Cagigal on the plains of Carabobo.

The Spanish leader, for its part, had conveniently located and with admirable order. The first
line of Urdaneta was commanded by Republicans, while the Liberator, Ribas, Marino and other
heads operating in the second. The total force amounted to about 5,200 men, the enemy had more
than 6,000 online. The successful provision of Bolivar, skillfully executed by their heads,
resulted in the extermination of almost all the enemy infantry, as the riders unharmed fled
to seek refuge in safe part, to the right of way of Pao.