 I interpret,
perhaps I'm wrong, but it seems to me that she wonders: "Would I like Paco, when he saw him
in town, as it should like a boyfriend to his girlfriend? "I loved only brother? And if I liked as
a boyfriend, was it because he deserves it or because the people I had not seen other men who
deserve it more? Do not be happening to me now poetic Paco in my memory, and to find, when
you see him, well under the memory itself? In its own soul, can not be such a phenomenon?
Whatever it is, explain it as want to explain, it is certain that nothing I said that I loved
when we lived together, and Now, I do not see three years ago, I declared his love and wants
to marry me. What is this? "Agnes does not answer such questions. It does not solve any doubt that
the assault. I understand, then, that what you want, but dared not tell me, is that you come
by here; only way for her to see clearly everything to convince you love, and understanding if
she loves you, all the charms prefiriéndote Madrid, which, indeed, are a thousand times smaller
than you think, for the poor like us.

"Ines has not expressed, again, the desire to come. I am who I guess she this desire that has
no reason to feel and express. She can not say, "Come to see if I like and then talk, then
I say yes or you'll squash. "This, however, is reasonable.

"Moreover, I have nothing to say against your plans, but much to applaud. If you marry, must stay
there, where you are one of the first, and not come to large populations, where have to be
from the past.

"For men of a certain class and married women with certain conditions this life is terrible.

"To
you alone, you're my closest friend and loyal, I can tell you, and
I can not help you tell you, in order to alleviate the weight of my
troubled heart, I am very unhappy.

"Beatriz married me for love. Despite the big age difference, I wanted to, not being inferior
to those seen here.

I think that Beatrice is loving me, but the fear that I miss the affection, the suspicion that
the high opinion of me stooping to be formed continuous, it constantly startled me.

"The contempt is contagious. By dint of looking at my wife the poor
performance I do, I neglected I am, the lowly position I hold, do
not end up neglected, too?

Do not end up hate me if I considered that the victim of my bad luck? Hence, although poor,
was a lady of the first. Here is the wife of a dark and miserable
clerk, whom nobody pays any attention.

"I have my theory, I comfort of my bad luck and bag except my pride. But How to convert my wife and
make a believer of my theory? Does not it seem fake?

"My theory is as follows. I believe that understanding is one, and I imagine a tool for measure you
like the thermometer. Let's get it 100 degrees, which is round number, and 20, in my opinion,
sufficient for all practical life, if fortune is blowing and the circumstances are favorable.
With the 20 degrees it becomes minister extolled, prince of great merit, president of a republic,
a banker and even powerful cardinal and pope. To make all these moderately papers just half the
degrees, just 10. Let us, however, prodigious and awarded 20 of the notables of the highest
social and political life. All Grades of understanding that you have at top 20 will be not only
useless but harmful, you distract from what matters to your interest, you will think in many cases
unnecessary, not think that fools you stirred up hatred of other men, or will make you look
as an oddball, quirky, and nothing will serve you if you do not reach the 100, which and grades are
genius. May also excite your love hurt you and making you own think you're a genius or you're
close to it, which is likely to get in ridiculous. To be a genius required 100 degrees well
covered, and yet the genius is often left latent if not favorable destiny brings out. Then appear
Cervantes, Newton, Shakespeare, Hegel and other such. While there does not appear to be more
deplorable and funny man that is, in our century, more than 20 degrees of understanding, needed
to reach to the most sublime of practical life, in the midst of civilization or environment
around us. It is clear that, as mankind progresses, the level will rise and will need more degrees
to the practical, and in old age, it required less. In the wild, put by-case basis, only two or
three degrees. Not required to hunt and fish, to stratagems warrior, etc., but some cunning,
a certain instinct little higher than wild beasts. All grades of understanding on this was then
a man was Don funestísimo and absurd luxury. Now, as the war have been applied to mathematics
and other sciences and hunting and fishing in the stock market in the Congress, in commercial
and industrial companies, not shooting arrows, but by creating securities, stocks, bonds and
other projectiles complicated grades needed are 20. Again, as the world goes quickly, within a couple
of centuries will be needed 40, but for now, is already aviado the passing of 20. What a horrible
nuisance in grades that you can spare! The sense deeper, more philosophical, most momentous
of the sentence is too clever by the superiority pitiful. All fired the shots that escape through
white top. Well above the critical killer all inspiration and kills you. Do not do a thousand
things because you seem silly, another makes, and thrives.

Instead, what you do to seem unobtrusive, or misunderstood, or judged only for success, which
is often deplorable, seems silly to everyone.

"This is, in short, my theory. In vain she tried to comfort me in my short venture, taking the
innocent vanity of believing more than 20 degrees and spend the ready in deepest philosophical
meaning of the phrase.

"This grim satisfaction that I give others is worth it convoluted for my wife. She does not look
it's going to walk, living in poor house, no one attends, and that respect, consideration and
flattery that craves being surrounded by waning missing mine.

"I note, measure, calculated instant by instant the rapid progress that makes this evil in the
heart it. In this step I also ready. I'm ready to haunt me.

I compare your doctor when he notices the progress of tuberculosis in a loved one, provided the
damage is to do and not even know how to avoid or remedy.

"I see too well clear contempt for me that is slowly entering the
heart of Beatrice and devouring the affection that I have.

        But how to prevent this? How do I prove
      I'm worth more than the blessed and exalted and rich?

The speech made against them seem suggested by envy and makes me despicable in his eyes.

"If I was young, beautiful and robust, I would hope that it continue Beatriz loving, but no longer
on a high opinion of my clothes intellectuals, but I'm old and ailing,
and I'm puny and ugly as hell.

I applied, therefore bitterly that question the poet:

What is the devil, Christ lives!, If you remove the view ready?

And without hesitation I answer: Nothing.

Soon there will be nothing left for me in the heart of it, but offensive compassion, if not spend
all that takes pity herself. And you better not feel sorry for me. Well our immortal writer says:
"And above all, heaven forbid you have anyone you pity.

"

"I explode, I would drown if you do not communicate with someone my troubles. That's why I entrust
you. Beatriz sees nothing. How, why, for what reason to complain to her and she?

"I love her with all my heart, and need to be happy that she loves
me and respect me.

But that that love requires love is a lie. Nor do I want to love me and respect me for fulfill
an obligation, under a contract.

"I see, then, I'll lose everything in the soul of Beatrice, and do not give to know that I
see.

Clearly perceive the abyss I'll fall, and keep walking towards it,
not that I can turn the other way or fill up the gap.

"This is my horrible situation. No one, or yourself, should trust it, but need to deposit someone
my secret pain. Come over here to comfort me. See also Inesita. Did you love. It is a good
and loving as Beatrice, and has no ambition and Beatrice. Besides, you are young and good
looking ... What nonsense I get married! But what could he do if he was in love? Who will take
my glory of being loved by her? She has loved me, she loves me still. How am I going to regret?
Who, for fear of losing it, he regrets having done? "

Such was the letter from Don Braulio, which closed carefully and certified to not be lost, before
confiding to the mail.

Made and their delicate and pathetic confidences felt more relieved and serene, and available
resigned to fulfill the promise to bring that night and Ines Beatriz to Jardines del Buen Retiro.

VII

Dramatic
poets have to talk to their characters according to the nature, condition and passions that
they represent, but in such a narrow box, such as a drama, there is good how to put corrective
to the evil doctrines or statements that such immoral characters
may issue.

So dramatic poets poor fluctuate between two rocks. Or converted to their heroes and heavy
annoying preachers, or, if allowed to speak as that naturally inspires passion, commit to respond
to posterity, and if their works do not go that far, to his contemporaries, all losses, delusions
and dreams that forcibly put into the mouths of the children of his
imagination, heated and vehement.

Thus, for illustrious example of this, we quote Euripides, who, since ancient times, have accused
of corrupting.

We know that Caesar, in order to justify all the insolence and wickedness that he used to seize the
dictatorship, often repeated some verses of tragic mentioned.

I am generally very opposed to teach anything entertaining works of literature, and a thousand
times opposite if highest education is sinful. For this I write novels, not drama. In novel explanations
fit all: achieving poison antidote is administered.

The author may take the floor in the middle of the narrative and contradict his characters, mitigating
or followed by drowning in the bad effect that the views of any of them were produced.

Taking advantage of this permit, and to quiet my conscience, scrupulous tired, I have now speak
of Don Braulio and his letter, which contains risky propositions certainly and that, believed by
the naive reader might pervert one of the ugliest perversions known:
the genius considered understood exceed unjustly neglected.

Don Braulio worked as a black in office, passed by an employee honest and intelligent and not discovered
his genius or semigenio fumes but as quietly as his closest friend.

Proudly served his theory of comfort, or at least relief, in certain
bitterness and suspicion, tormented him cruelly, without knowing yet
how much had Beatriz reason for this.

Don Braulio, finally, if deemed victim, did not blame society as a whole, nor any individual
uniquely, but assumed that all emanated, by fatally and inevitably of the same kind of things.

In
sum, Mr. Braulio, melancholy temperament, little favored by fortune, and love and jealous not
know who, perhaps delirious forging theories, but would not let such theories transcended into practice,
and seemed, in view of more lynx, as an employee modest I knew all that mattered was to know
and care as do to earn the salary conscience and not defraud the public purse or take the hospice
offices for people frock coat or privileged beggars.

As for the theory itself, there is little to say against, but here we will not philosophize, but to narrate.
I will say, however, that even assuming that each degree of culture that society is coming only
require a certain degree of understanding for the practical and daily, and other grades are
entirely superfluous, useless and even harmful, except in exceptional cases, still will have
to concede that the understanding is not the only power the soul that goes to the man to be
achieved, the will, character, also fall by much.

Moreover, the understanding, in essence, is similar to God nobody sees, nobody know, nobody but reverence
and respect in their work. So Don Braulio, or any another might have more than 20 degrees of
understanding, in their feelings, were necessary or convenient for the practical, but when
plus, when this surplus is not intellectual says nothing, but ruin the understanding that is in
use, there is no reason to complain that the world does not applaud or awe of the invisible and
hidden that can not fathom, nor penetrate, nor fathom. Who knows if the self-deceiving and makes
many people believe that have that understanding excessive and unnecessary, and may not have but
a superlative dose fatuity?

And if love does not deceive himself, if in fact we have such superior understanding and do not reach
favorable circumstances is shown, it is best to keep quiet, resigned and live as men live less
clear, with no claim to genius, but by working humbly to make a living,
trying to equal footing with vulgar beings, and reserving the upper
understanding to talk to God or supernatural beings, or inner conversation
with yourself, if you do not believe anything the semigenio, or whether,
despite their mental status, no angels nor deign to descend from the
sky deities of Olympus, or to take with him awhile of gab.

I'm going to put in case the life of Spinoza. This will better explain
my idea.

Let us imagine that this wise not have written his philosophical works, for whatever reason had been
carried to the grave the secret of his admirable, if misplaced, fitness
for deeper speculation metaphysical.

It is clear that this extraordinary man overwhelmed by its sublime
and strange thoughts would not have been in practical life or rich
manufacturer, or merchant blissful and astute politician, and nothing
in this order, but had worked on polishing glass for lenses or make
shoes, or any other office or need a mechanic, and had not taken in
pretense of being the genius to be a bum without a job or benefit,
and what is worse, not a bum fun and enjoyable, but a vague whining
and crying or maldicente, caustic and poisonous like snakes.

Apologize,
then, or at least we indulge our Don Braulio, whose pride was hidden
in the center of the soul, revealing only the most intimate of his
friends at the moment in which also showed the deepest wounds of his
heart. 

Don Braulio had felt the need to trust their sentences to
a friend, in order not to drown; but otherwise this confidence, if
something was sinned by by concentrated and full of dissimulation.

His
wife had not noticed this annoyance, that suspicion that suffocating
the soul.

His wife seemed to love him, but his happy nature and his
early youth the excited the joy and drove to work to distract and
amuse.

Beatriz was not wasted, but ordered and economic