 La Mancha had begun between
Aranjuez (which belongs to the province of Madrid) and Castillejo, corresponding population to
that of Toledo. The province of Ciudad Real, separated in part by the mountains of Montes de
Toledo, are the region of plains and mountains that had the denomination naked Antique Mancha.

Tembleque is an important point in Spain's internal communications, it is not only happening there
the main rail, but leave the center of the roads leading one hand to Granada and Malaga, Cordoba,
Seville and Cadiz, and another to Ciudad Real and Badajoz, through the center of the basin of the
Guadiana. With almost miserable hamlet, a plain, poor and marshy, and dominated by the hills
south of Toledo, Tembleque not started to rise again but under the train to Alicante. Its population
reaches just about 4,000 inhabitants, steady living in greater numbers, despite the production
of cereals, wine, some sheep and several coarse cloth mills and salt.

As I begin my journey to Andalusia fortune wanted to protect me. Lunch in the canteen (or buffet)
Tembleque the station, I found that my colleagues would care to be two French knights who
were traveling for pleasure. They could not speak a word of Spanish, and appeared to be subject
of distinction, able to please and instruct a teammate. Your itinerary was equal to mine, and had
for me the advantage of being Parisians. I wanted very much to know privacy in the type of distinguished
French province, because in general it was not paid very Parisian world of man. Also wanted
to teach me the things concerning to provincial life in France, travel associated with smart
people and watching how as the French judge to Spain. We are, therefore, agreed that I would
be his interpreter and would treat us like old friends. They corresponded well to my desires,
Today, after a long time, I see in either of two people who never let me forget how France is
good and honorable.

The mobile home called "diligence" drawn by ten mules started jumping like demons driving about 17 guests
at discretion of 13 gross (assuming that drivers deserve be classed with mules). In short save the
Montes de Toledo by one of his best open, and we are in full Mancha, in the great valley or plain
that is central to Guadiana river, between the mountains of Toledo and Morena, and extending
the Estremadura, west, towards Portugal. This vast region we crossed from north to south, is rather plains
a number of more or less extensive than a great plain or valley. Wherever the field is choppy,
or by steps of the mountain side, which is moving towards the center, or by cords or small
isolated groups of hills that border the skyline.

The mountain ranges that dominate the region, almost completely bare and sterile, the dry ground,
its general composition of the different alluvial plain, the multiplied sloping hillsides, and
how the winds turn on so vast pit enclosed by all sides by mountains, all that is determined not
only the nature of the productions La Mancha, but also isolation, immobility, customs and spirit
of Mancha populations. I have not ever seen more strange loneliness. They bring together the
idea of opulence and of desolation, hunger and abundance of life and death. No Spain is in
a region that reveals as clearly as the fatal Mancha action of Spanish misrule, the inability
of supporters of isolation, flawed monastic institutions and all that was the last of Spanish
society.

The floor of the Mancha, sandy-clay in general (except limestone and granite rocks in the mountains)
is a huge filter. Wherever there swamps (and these are many) exterior dry land is absolute rare
streams. Penetrate water easily the sandy outer layer and stop at another thicker clay, overlaid sediments
to very strong. Hence, while the water is that almost completely lack the surface, it is easily
found in abundance making excavations or wells, wells in the country called. Water saturated
bonded salts in calcareous sediments interior comes in torrents (to lose again if given course)
using ropes bristle submerged in the reservoirs, coupled with a rudimentary mechanism that moves
a mule turning old unceasingly around the well. It's funny to see half traveler of a desert
plain and abandoned one of those wells, which have the external shape a furnace, where the stolid
mule goes round and round to bring up the water, no one the guide you. The habit is there
the place of man, the animal works only up to whole days.

As the ground so moist inside and dry in its outer layer, and furrowing
of hills and inclined planes, which are like the handle of undulating
hills, identifies three well-marked genera of production.

In the hills and the rough hills, and in the plains sterile, large herds of grazing sheep, whose
wool offers significant value and feeds some looms in populations that are produced very ordinary
cloths and fabrics for including consumption of La Mancha. In the low hills and gentle slopes and
grow rich extensive terraced vineyards often in the form of amphitheatres, or small groves stand
that increase with the melancholy gray ink uniform landscapes. Finally, in undulating plains,
oceans of wheat, barley, oats and rye in the wind to produce in the vast horizon of the most
beautiful emerald or gold reflections, according to the state of the crops. This is the Channel,
such as agricultural country, its main characters.

But not without reason I called oceans cereal plantations. La Mancha is the idea of sea ??for uniformity
of appearance, for its steadfast loneliness and sadness which wrenches.

Not a song, or a snort, not an echo in the plains! That region is a vast cemetery with all the
desolation and fertility of the fields ... the death .... The traveler walks leagues and miles
and not see a house nor a human being or a cow or pet. In between population there is only desert.
There are no country life, or the simple landscape and funny of the cottage, or the peasant, in
the strict sense of the word. No rather than cities, towns and abandoned fields. Who cultivates
it? - Who cares for those endless fields of grain and these olive groves and vineyards? - Nature.
Man ú is lazy beggar sleeping or begging, while nature does it all. Where Queen wants to silence
....

The sadness still dominates in the English Channel in the vicinity of the towns, where it is concentrated
social life.

After crossing vast plains where there is a tree, not one, nor more than earth and sky, when approaching
a population begins to see everywhere a swarm of wells and windmills scattered across the plains
around the village; while differ in some small mounds many neighboring eminence of land, with
little doors and a dwarf species of coarse dome on top, who have air graves of Indians (the
Colombian huacas) or furnace groups. There are wineries wines of La Mancha, dug into the ground
outdoors and open air, under primitive state to its stationary life of the people of La Mancha.

Everything
is there as we found Don Quixote in his knightly pilgrimages. The Maritornes abound and are the
same; Sancho shows his face everywhere, always conservative, mischievous, good-natured and unresponsive
to the movement, the windmill move with the same regularity that
at the time that the illustrious Manchego apostrophes and spearing
him without mercy, and mules and donkeys, gear, coats, blankets, furniture,
as it is visible there remains faithfully the traditions revealed
by the immortal prisoner Argamasilla.

I think bray mayors today in the same tones as the two who did not say to Cervantes:

"Brayed in vain No One and the other mayor,"

Centuries have passed over the English Channel, without changing anything, as if time had said:
- "There are regions that are better left sleeping dogs lie."

     With the exception of Manzanares, a town of over 10,000 inhabitants,
where, thanks to the nearby creek Azner, there are some malls shameful
that surprise the traveler in these solitudes, the other people seem
to live like the desert.

Wherever dirt, dilapidation, abandonment and debris, houses ugly, heavy and misshapen, with
doors and windows enormis microscopic; winding streets, unpaved,
with deep mud or rock piles in disorder; dead silence everywhere ruined
buildings and lack of arts and trade; bands of starving beggars in
great numbers, roaming the streets like ghosts, spying forward to
the arrival of a coach to fall on passengers, surround them in sheaf,
oppress, and shot literally, to get every one some room or farthing,
a piece of bread or something else, all accompanied by the most horrible
clamor which imaginable.

Each of these populations is a compromise between the ruins, the cemetery and the cloaca where
there is poverty, starvation, the stupid laziness, superstition, envy and hunger .... It is painful
and disgusting to see how they insult and abuse those mutually countless beggars, of all sexes
and ages, fighting for travelers as dams campaign - average covered in horrible rags, whose
appearance is doubly sad for the yellow ink wool fabrics that serve as common dress.

How to explain this appalling misery and the immobility of so many populations within vast
plains of prodigious fertility? The isolation, bad example and poor institutions explain everything.
The convents, making idleness and begging venerable traditions in
the eyes of the ignorant and superstitious crowd, have degraded in
all respects to these people so favored by nature in some things.

As the Government, I repeat the phrase that I have given elsewhere. "He has made the role of dog
in the manger. "Based on the idea of ??monopoly and centralization, wanted to regulate it
everything. Powerless, has not done anything selfish, has never ceased to do, a friend of isolation,
closed the door to communications. La Mancha has been very rich and happy just to output the huge production
of their lands, almost spontaneous, mainly cereals, and wine oil, wool and other items. But
nestled between mountains, no roads, no freedom change or industry,
and flawed population into habits of idleness and passive obedience,
Mancha life (if the vegetation can be called life) has been concentrated
in cities and villas.

Thus, the fields have been deserted, no houses, no trees, no irrigation, and populations has
perpetuated poverty by the concentration of idle hands.

And this concentration, which is noted in the two main castle, has been, in turn, the cause
of the persistence of bad governance. The man in the field is, in general, the most independent,
equal, and for the life you lead and influence of nature around him, and because the action
of the authority will achieve less. Concentrated the population in cities and towns, not only ends the
life between town and village, but which, being more immediate and active the weight of authority
on ignorant masses abject obedience to passively fits all tyranny, the degraded at all, and
the centralization Absolute makes it easier to establish and more durable. I have found the
key to almost all social phenomena that distinguish the Castile of Spain Catalan Moorish and
Basque, in the substantial difference that shows in the way the population is has concentrated
or distributed.

Once across the mountains of the Montes de Toledo, leaving behind
the north, the great basin Tajo, the vast panorama seemed to be the
same, because there is a singular resemblance between the and the
Guadiana basin.

Going to everyday use, we saw distinctly in the distance with the aid telescope, on a hill,
leaning against a buttress of the mountain we had just cut, the ancient town of Consuegra,
about 9.000 people (belonging to the Toledo province), there are still remains of great Roman
works, and highlights on a steep hill the ruins of an ancient castle that is supposed to be the
work of Trajan. Pass then the town of Madridejos, which has about 7,000 inhabitants, a rate
which does not require description, because everything is uniform la Mancha. After the town
completes the province Toledo and later starts of Ciudad Real, which has its southern limit in central
of the Sierra Morena.

Sort are to the left of the poor villages via Inheritance and Camus, cut throat called Port-Lapiche
hilly, rocky hills where vegetate between five hundred civilians
Sancho Panza sad crosses the region of Villalta, where ducks splash
as solitary other 227 Mancha, between lakes without drainage, and
in the middle of a fertile but poorly cultivated plain is given by
Manzanares, important town, which has some orchards in nursing homes,
but HOWEVER producing fewer apples than beggars.

It was already ten o'clock at night when we arrived, hungry and ground, to the illustrious Valdepeñas,
renowned for its popular wines, not by otherwise. Anyone would think that the 10.800 inhabitants
of the valley-of-rocks would live half tipsy, getting a taste to their pipes and making every
tavern one Capua. Nothing that in Spain the people who drink less wine are the most in producing,
his sobriety is singular, and almost everyone prefers the use of poor water quality.

The meal was served at the inn of the proceedings, and to a hostess honors moody, mean between Dulcinea
and Maritornes, overwhelmed us with chickens and Partridge made in every way imaginable, and
the usual cooked chickpeas, so macadamize solid as stone. They drank the worst wine you'll find
in Valdepeñas Spain, "In the blacksmith house wooden hoe." With the exception of large cities,
where some hotels or inns is served with pleasure, Spain is a country
where the table is a matter of quantity rather than quality.

That is a sober and frugal people, and taste HOWEVER of hoteliers is to agglomerate piles of
dishes, their order and discernment, as if it were only satiate the guest or traveler. Hence it
is often the opposite effect because many dishes are just different editions of the first one
to enter the restaurant scene.

We had not finished cleaning the mouth when he called us to Mayoral relentless diligence. Digestion
was necessary to make the jumps, after eating in abbreviated form under the scheme Impossible
gallinaceous sleeping in that cave is called saloon, stiff as a stake and tossed atrociously
by the Hulk which is Mayoral pilot! We passed through Santa-Cruz-de-Mudela, population of 5,500
souls, silent as a tomb, in the shadows of the night and play Almuradiel (about 600) began
to climb the crossroads of the Sierra Morena, where for so long had
their altars Caco God, between horrible and awesome gorges granite
rocks.

Those times have gone entirely, and the heroic style robber has closed almost all studies
in the Spanish peninsula, and its legacy has been taken in cities most distinguished and civilized
children. Sierra Morena is quieter closed a church, and who exercised their industry there
have been superseded by Ministers State players Exchange, smugglers aristocratic canons bulls
vendors, MPs and other personalities and of unblemished repute, rigorously pursued energy and
vice, vagrancy, crime ... and money.

Nothing more grandly vague, romantic and solemn scene is offered in the eyes of traveler in the
heart of Sierra Morena, in the silence of the night and no moon. Stagecoach conference with a bang
by causeways built to peak on the banks of the great cliffs, producing
in the dark breast of the mountains thousand different echoes.

The huge granite hills, naked abrupt, sometimes torn, intertwined maze, separated by deep pits and
frightening, noting spikes here and there, and cones, and domes and giant moles, covered sad parts
of shrubs, with white flowers and mosses and ferns, the shadows and clear that project, according
to the inflection of the ground, the chill of night noise streams in the depths, the fearful loneliness
of those places that seem dens of robbers or wild beasts and birds of prey: all that gives the
scene the darkest characters and a special interest.

Seeing those formidable barriers granite includes secular tenacious resistance of both races
who fought for eight centuries, supported and defended over and over with the power of nature
and disputing the ground inch by inch, in the narrow gorges of the mountains. Also, the observed
is an excuse (but sophistry) to solitary confinement for so many centuries has prevailed in Spain.

La
Mancha was over, and we played in our Milky Way, after Tembleque, with a total population of
34.500 inhabitants clustered in seven localities [3]. We had already passed the awful gorges
of decriminalization dawn (!!); dogs would begin to spread their
vague clarity.

Very sleepy and tired dormitábamos and, in a kind of nightmare and slumber, when opened the
horizon at noon. The beautiful Andalusia, the country of love and art, fertility and work began
on the heights of Santa Elena.

* * * * *

PART FIVE.

THE ANDALUSIA.

* * * * *

CHAPTER I.

* * * * *

JAEN Y GRANADA.

We walked up near Santa Elena, 210 kilometers from Madrid, and we were missing 218 to complete 428
of the distance between Granada and Madrid. But what a difference in the appearance of the two counties!
Gone was the Gothic race, the Spanish society, genuine representative da old Spain. Later,
some beautiful original groups of the Germanic race, and then a people
profoundly changed by the infusion of Arab blood and traditions industrial
activity and artistic genius of the great oriental and African tribes.

       

In Santa Elena, a small population of some 600 modern people, the
mountains seem to open to give way to life, the sky is now more beautiful,
more delicious air, and nature smiles.

       Scarcely a century ago the Sierra Morena was a desert, a vast succession
of intersections appalling, with no sign of life, industry or trade.

Charles III (the only king liberal and positively good that Spain
has had) decided to bring forth life in the middle of this desert,
founding colonies in Sierra important farmers vigorous for which not
only served as the Spanish, but he brought German immigrants, many
of them Protestants, themselves to give examples and encourage healthy
cross-fertilization races.

       It is to these measures to be the existence of seven new towns in
the Sierra Morena.

Almuradiel located next setentrional, is the first. The other six, corresponding to High Andalusia
(Jaen province) are: Santa Elena, Las Navas de Tolosa (famous for the battle won there in 1212
King Alfonso VIII against the Moorish king, Aben Muhammad), Carolina (Which was named after Charles
III), Charcoal, Aldea-del-Rio and Guarroman. The population total of six colonies in Andalusia
amounts to 7.400 individuals, which correspond 4.728 to Carolina.

Nothing more interesting than the contrast of these populations and their surrounding fields,
aspect of the country with the view recorded in all directions. The show is beautiful and provides
proof of man's power to create wealth, even in the midst of nature ungrateful, when you have the
will to fight and overcome obstacles.

A right and left eyes but do not reveal bare hills and sad, formidable buttresses de la Sierra,
destroyed, scrambled eggs, chopped into its huge granite masses, or multiply rigid in labyrinths
of hills and slopes. The picture looks almost like an ocean reef black, brown, gray, sometimes red, as
if the ancient volcanic upheavals had scattered between depths.

Up front, more than 240 miles away, is the mighty Sierra-Nevada, running from east to west,
similar throughout (less in Snow-white) á la Morena, and to descry dimly reached the spot where
delay the Moorish city of Jaen, lying at the foot of one of the long spurs of the great and steep
barrier.