 

Both were on their blanket, dark silk dresses, nothing garish and dissonant color or ornaments,
with an innate elegance that is exuded as a perfume of the same simplicity and modesty of
their dress.

Don Braulio was in his, though clean, fed neglected. His coat and hat were fashion the way for
eight or ten years.

His black tie was a little shabby, and neck shirt, straight and on a large, nearly reached
his ears.

Beatriz half had fought with her husband to make him carry lower collars
and buy new hat and new coat.

I could not get. "What?" - Said Don Braulio -. Mr. hobbies more. So when I was young, and
I will not change.

So I fell in love, so I wanted to, so you married me. "

Doña Beatriz did not know what to say after all, was silent, and let
go as you don Braulio wanted.

That night, therefore, made no comment on the suit of Mr. Braulio, but not left to tie it graceful
loop of the tie, or stroking her hair, put ointment and combing the best she could.

The three took a stroller with mustache and went to the Gardens. Along the way, said Don Braulio:

-
I think, and I'm sorry that you are going to annoy. We have no friends. Do not even have known.
In the midst of the hubbub going to be like a desert. Who is to tell? Who is to approach us?

- Men, do not worry for so little - answered Dona Beatriz -.

If you do not know anybody, if no one speaks, well that neither you
nor I know yet of memory.

Talk, we tell new things, we shall the gathering of the three, we'll hear the music and cool.

- To take the air - said Don Braulio - the same is to go there than the Prado.

- And still save money for the tickets - Beatriz said.
Ines was silent, and left to continue the dialogue between husband
and wife.

- I do not mean expenditure poverty, Beatriz. You know
that I'm not mean, though I am poor.

- I know. I suspect not think
it hurts to spend money on gifts. I say no irony. I say this only
to realize that, view things as you see them, is silly go to the Gardens,
but I, and Agnes certainly more than I see them through another prism.
We like to see people, but not repaired by us. The animation, joy,
entertainment Luxury recreate us