 And thus, all together, seeing the big market to give them to land that
he knows to perpetually to each of them, together and with one voice gave him great thanks,
and entitled Intipchuri calling, saying "Son of the Sun."

And then there Inca Yupanqui ordered that everyone be some room to do such lands were painted, where,
as there were, gave and gave to the said lands, giving to each paresció land that it was enough.
And this fact, he charged that those three gentlemen his friends were to distribute to the all
of the city, or ANSI as he had given the and marked, and this fact, Volvo in front of them
all. And thus, the lords were and gave and gave out the land, and they cast them to the possessions
of those who craves them the said grant was made by the Inca Yupanqui. [Did you send?] Messrs.
caciques there were, to fetch him some account each Indian had him there, and cacique then
they brought him by Quip, says account, the sum of the Indians had, and known by the Inca Indians
had Yupanqui, ordered [38] Messrs. then distributing them houses, and so he was done. And then
one day he ordered that each of Cuzco, as he had fitted the fate of the land to the dressing
saliesen and repair and make their taps and showers, all of which were repaired and made of
hewn stone, because was the building in fact so, that would last perpetually, and bid them verifications
their boundaries and landmarks high, so made, never be lost, under which markers and each of them
was put certain amount of carbon, saying that if at any fall time is the landmark, which for the
carbon held on it would know the boundaries of such soils. And it provided, Inca Yupanqui was
a few days, while in the dressing land order was given, rejoiced and feasting seeing everyone
worked and dressed the part that he had fitted, and which via that with some work I did, gave
him help.

And as he saw that the building and repair of such land was long and went according to the objected
that such were doing, and that it was building that he could not finish without [39] aid sent
The lords and chieftains who were there came together in his house some day, and were then
ANSI well together as he commanded, and being there in his house, told them that there was great
need in the city of Cuzco had deposits of all meals, yearning for maize and chili and frijoles é chochos,
and chicha and quinoa, and dried meats, é proveimientos and all other cured foods they have, and
that what had need of their lands, sent for. And then the lords chiefs said they were pleased
to send you all will bring that commanded that the city of Cuzco were some dried apricots in
the company of the Indians who craves they invest, so that they know their land to those who
were there that was his will that such proveimiento hiciesen to the city of Cuzco, because it
was the first they were doing, and they very much desired to make such a service to the city
of Cuzco and his Lord Inca Yupanqui.