 Neither wanted to humiliate
the other. So, this tension ridiculously stretched until it Pepa, grab them by the ears, I said
four fresh and forced them to shake hands. Then, in the reconciliations, were extreme.

- Do you know, Pepa, I would not want to be there at the time of reconciliation? - Said Cobo
again flaunting its brutal malignancy.

- Neither do I, son - answered with a sigh of resignation that made me laugh -. But what does
you!

I'm the mother, which is the last thing you can be in this world,
and I have that penance and many others that you do not know.

- Me
the figures.

- They can not you appear.

- Well, dear, I'd love to
see my children reconciled.

Nothing is more ugly marriage odds - said Mariana blessed his word
slow, dragged, lymphatic woman.

- I too ... but after passing reconciliation
- Pepa said, exchanging glances smiling with Cobo Ramirez Pinedo.

-
Which I gladly I will reconcile with you, Mariana, just as those guys!
- Said in a low voice the general syrupy Patiño, seizing the moment
in Calderón's wife leaned over to poke the fire with an iron-nickel.

At the same time as attempting to retrieve so she will not be disturbed, his fingers touched,
and can even be said, without betraying the truth, general than the soft oppressed the lady
quickly.

- Reconcile! - Said it natural voice -.

For that we need rather be angry and, thank God, we are not.

The old philanderer dared not reply. Rio forcibly, restless glancing Calderón. If you insisted, that
Panfila was able to repeat aloud the bold phrase they had just said.

- Of course - followed Pepa - which I'll get as little as possible in their quarrels. Or I
just for your home. Ugh!

Crispa Me doing the role of mother!

- For me, Pepa, you want it to be my mother - Cobo said, looking into
her eyes greedily.

- Well, I tell my daughter, to thank him.

- No,
if not for his daughter!

... It's because ... I would like you to metiese in my stuff.

- Bah, bah! you let music - half Frias replied angrily.

A hint of a smile to her lips folded proclaimed, however, that the phrase had flattered.

Ramon took out the conversation of the Royal Theatre, the rabbit comes
out and runs all distinguished gatherings of the court.

The opera, for subscribers, not a hobby, but an institution. Not the love of music, however,
that engenders this constant concern, but not having anything better to occupy them. For Ramon
Maldonado, Calderon's wife and many others, human beings are divided into two species: Real theater
subscribers and non subscribers. The first are the ones that really express in a perfect way the
essence of humanity. Gayarre and Tosti were placed again discussion. Those who had arrived recently
gave their views on both merit and on the physical layout of the two singers.

Ramon began to have whispered to Esperanza Peace and last night had been submitted to Tosti in
his dressing room. "A very nice woman, very thin.

He had received an amazing grace and kindness. I had heard much of it, of Ramon, and had yearnings
to know him personally. When he learned he was a councilman, was amazed by the youth who had
come to that position. You see that nonsense! Apparently, in other countries are used to select
only the old ones. Up close it was even better than from afar. A satin skin that looks, a beautiful
teeth, then an arrogant figure, the chest lifted and arms !..."

Ramon was a vanity not only clumsy, it is well known rule that when courting a woman should not boast
too much heat to another, but a bold heading tantico girls.

These looked smiling, shining eyes and mocking malicious fire not observe the young councilman.

-
And tell you Ramon, would not you said it? - Pacita asked.

- Not yet - taking over and said the intention of mocking the question.

-
But they declare.

- Nor.

I'm already in love with another woman. At the same time sent a faint
peek Esperanza.

This became suddenly serious.

- Really? Tell you ... tell you.

- It's a secret

- Well, but we will keep it .... Hope Is not you say nothing?

And the skinny girl looked at her friend maliciously rejoicing in
his ill-humor and the Ramon concern.

- I have no desire to know anything.

-
I hear you, Ramon.

Hope has no desire to hear about their girlfriends.

I well know what, but do not say ....

- How stupid are you, girl! - Said that with real anger.

The youth council was flattered by such warning came from a close friend. Believed, however, I
had to change the conversation in order not to spoil his claim, because
Esperanza looked serious and grim.

- I do not believe it's so hard
you plead to Tosti and she says yes .... And if not ... why do you
have to Pepe Castro, who can attest to what I say.

- Pepe Castro
is not you - Calderón said the girl with marked indifference.

Maldonado fell from the sky region where they rocked. That sentence
said scornfully stabbing came to the soul.

Fully because the superiority of Castro Pepe was one of the few truths which imposed a so invincible spirit.
Could offer objections to Homer, but that of Johnny, no. Safety can not ever reach, much as he imitated,
the sublime degree of elegance, carelessness, contempt and disgust value of all creation, which
characterized his admired friend, humiliated him, made him unhappy. Esperanza had finger in
the wound that sapped his precious life. Could not answer, such was his emotion.

Clementina was sad and restless. Since he had entered the house of
his sister, sought pretext to leave.

But it was. Was forced to resign some time to elapse. Minutes seemed centuries. Had chatted a few
moments with the Marquise de Alcudia, but she had left as he entered his father Ortega. His sister
was abducted by the general Patino he carefully explained how to raise the nightingales in cages.
The two girls Alcudia next to him looked like wax, rigid, stiff, answering in monosyllables
a few questions that went. A deaf irritation was coming over gradually from it. Given his
temperament, not many minutes had passed throw shooting all ruthlessly and take off sharply.
Alas at the name of Pepe Castro raised his head strongly and began to listen with avid attention.
The reluctance of a sudden put Ramoncito pale. However recovered immediately, and, entering
the conversation with a friendly smile, said:

- Go, go, Ramon, lest you bad language .... Poor women in the mouth of you!

- Do not speak ill but that he deserves, Clementina - said it encouraged by the cable that unexpectedly
received.

- In all you speak.

I think your friend Pepe Castro is not that they bite language to break through the ground
an honor.

- Clementine, so far I have not caught behind no lie. Madrid knows it all man good luck with women.

-
I do not know what - he replied with a gesture of disdain the lady.

-
I'm not smart in the beauty of men - said the boy laughing his sentence
- but everyone says that Johnny is cute.

- Ps!

... Will be according to individual taste ... and Pacita excuse me, that is a relative. I am
part of those all and do not say.

- The truth is - Esperanza said sheepishly - that Johnny does not
go through ugly .... Then, it is elegant and distinguished, do not
you?

And he turned to Pacita, while getting slightly red.

Clementina gave him a piercing look of blushing ended.

- What are you talking about? - Asked Cobo Ramirez approaching the circle.

Almost never sat in the gatherings. Le board walk from group to group,
panting like a ox, releasing some bold in each sentence.

The face of Ramon clouded the approach its rival.

This did not fail to notice and gave him a quizzical look.

- Come on, Ramoncillo, say, how you manage to be so lively at the
ladies?

I just Pepa say that you are casting genius.

- No, man, how I miss him if you have it all? - Councilman angrily
uttered.

- Oh, boy, if you randomly as I approach, I go.

A wry smile, bitter and triumphant at the same time, delayed the angular
face of Ramon.

He had caught his enemy into the trap. It should be known that accidentally found out a few days before,
by an academic language, which did not say random, but embarrassed.

-
Dear Cobo - said leaning back in his chair and staring intently mocking
-.

Before to talk among educated people, I think you should learn the
Castilian .... Say ... I think ....

- Why?

"- Asked the other surprise.

- You do not say random, but embarrass, beloved Cobo. I'll participate for your satisfaction and
consequent effects.

Ramon's attitude as he uttered these words was so arrogant, impertinent smile, Cobo, puzzled
for a moment, asked angrily:

- Why is said and not embarrass chance?

- Because!

... Because I Said So ... That !...-- said the other still smiling every with increasing irony
and casting a look of triumph to Esperanza.

Are engaged in a lively dispute, violent, between the two.

Cobo stood his ground arguing briskly that there was no fluster, which nobody had ever heard
and that he was tired of talking to educated people. Councilman Young and perfumed him briefly answered
without leaving the cheeky little smile, sure of his victory. The more furious put Cobo, most
delighted in humiliating him in front of the girl whom they both
sighed.

But the decor changed when irritadísimo Cobo, looking lost, he called
to his aid to Patiño general.

- Let's see, general, you being one
of the great men of the army, do you think is right the Azores?

The general was flattered by that timely dab of honey, Maldonado said,
addressing in a paternal tone:

- No, Ramon, no: you are wrong.

Never embarrass said in Spain.

The council gave a jump in the chair. Suddenly abandoning all irony, casting flames from the
eyes, he shouted that they knew what they were saying, it seemed incredible that educated people,
etc., etc .... I was sure of being right and immediately seek a dictionary.

- The fact is, Ramon - said D. Julian scratching his head - than he had at home makes has long
since disappeared. I do not know who has taken it .... But I think also and the general, said
azara ....

He further blow deeply affected Maldonado, who, pale and trembling, threw his voice troubled
one last cry of anguish.

- Sura comes from goshawk, gentlemen!

- What a hawk or what cauliflower, man! - Cobo said releasing an insolent laugh -. Confesses that
he has put his paw and say you do not do it again.

The wrath, the wrath of the young councilman knew no bounds. Still struggled at times decomposed
with words and gestures.

But how you answer their strong protests with v giggles sarcasm, he concluded by adopting
a dismissive attitude worthy v, muttering words loaded with bile, her lips trembling, his eyes
grim. Occasionally let slip by nose a slight snort of indignation. Cobo was unforgiving took
all occasions who volunteered to guide pullita poisoned indirectly caused rejoicing girls and
made people smile quietly serious. Nobody in the world lived more hunger and thirst for justice
that Ramon at the time.

The arrival of a new character terminated or suspended at least his torment. Announced servant
to the Duke of Requena. The entrance of this occurred in a movement
gathering very clearly indicated its importance.

Calderón met him giving the two hands effusion.

The men got up hurriedly and in their seats to exit to meet them smiling, expressing reverence
in his attitude that inspired them. Ladies also turned their faces toward him with curiosity
and respect, and rose to Pepa Frias hello.

So Ortega left his father and came forward Marquise inclined, submissive, guiding syrupy greeting,
smiling with his eyes to clear through the heavy glass shortsighted spending. For a few moments
there was just the room but "dear Duke," "Sir Duke." "Oh, Duke!"

The object of much attention and compliance was a man short, fat, his face bruised, the slanting
eyes bulging, white hair and mustache graying, hard and bristly as quills of a porcupine. Thick
lips, and crooked and stained by cigarette juice pure paseándolo brought off and bit of an angle
to another in the mouth without ceasing. Could have about sixty years, more rather than less. It
came wrapped in a magnificent fur coat had not wanted to take the entrance be cold. But to put
your feet Calderón the boudoir, he felt badly impressed by the warmth that was there. No just
answer the greetings and smiles contention that he ran, he murmured in a tone brutal, his voice thick
and husky at the same time that characterizes the short-necked men:

- Ugh! This throws bombs! ...

And accompanied by an expletive that begins on f. Valencia At the same time beckoned to shed
the coat. Twenty hands fell upon him to help and this delayed a bit operation.

Representóse Calderon in the party scene of the Israelites in the
desert more has been repeated in the world, the worship of the golden
calf.

The newcomer was none other than that D. Antonio Salabert, Duke of Requena, the famous Salabert
richest among the rich in Spain one of the giants of banking and
the most famous, without doubt, by the number and importance of their
business.

He was born in Valencia.

Nobody knew his family.

Said one who had mercadal been rogue, others began to groom a banker
and collector was then zurupeto letters, others who had been a soldier
of Cabrera in the first civil war, and the origin of his fortune was
in a suitcase full of stolen gold ounces to the traveler.

Some came even unknown in one of the famous bandit gangs that infested to Spain shortly after
the war. But he explained as simple and graphic origin of his fortune, which did not lose a hundred
thousand million pesetas. When angry with employees his home, which happened often, and felt offended
that their swearing insulting, I used to say screaming like a madman:

- Do you know, f. ..., how come I have to have money? ... For getting many kicks in rear. Only
by dint of kicking is done go upstairs. Are we?

One must admit that this data suffers from being a bit vague, but the perfect authenticity which
is coated, gives invaluable. Taken as the basis of research, maybe you can come to define the
character and history the life of the wealthy and corporations banker.

- Hey, little girl - said Clementina and taking it forward until his beard as is done with Children
-. Are you here? I have not seen your car down.

- I walk out, Dad.

- It's a miracle. You may want to take mine.

- No, I have desire to walk. I am these days very heavy.

The Duke of Requena had dispensed with all present and spoke to his daughter with all affability
that was susceptible. The rarely seen. Clementina was his natural daughter, having back in Valencia,
when young, a woman from the lowest social class, as he apparently was. Then he had married
in Madrid, and on track to be rich, with a young middle class, which had no family. This woman,
extremely delicate health since her marriage, had given or, rather, had she proposed that
her husband's daughter came to inhabit the same house.

Clementina was raised, then, here and was beloved of his father's wife as a real daughter. She
also wanted and respected as a mother. After the married used to visit often, but as his father
was always very busy, did not enter rooms, and from his mother (so called) was to the street.
Only on days banquet or reception, or when by chance he encountered at home or on the street
chatted around with it.

After asking for her husband and their children, Duke began to talk, not sit, Calderon and Pepa Frias.
A rude man campechanote in appearance, smiled a few times: when he did so was so slight that
it could still be doubted. I used to call the things by their name and address people not polite,
telling the face things that could go through rudeness, because I knew they were not giving a
dye between rough and warm as they took away the sting. It was not very talkative. Generally
remained silent biting his cigar and looking to partner with slanted eyes, impenetrable. Showed speaking
false and sly innocence that he did not unfriendly. Always looked after the old rogue mercadal
of Valencia, right, mocking, suspicious and cunning.

Pepa Frias told him about business. The widow was tireless in this conversation. I wanted to learn
all, for fear of being deceived profits always eager and trembling with terror comic before Low
perspective of their funds. It was repeated ad nauseam the details. "Would release the Bank's
shares and buy tanks? What did the government do with the redeemable? I had heard rumors. Do
you make the next payment rising? Would not it be better settle upon thirty cents of profit
to wait to make ends meet? "

For her Salabert words were those of the oracle of Delphi. The banker's immense fame the was fascinated.
Unfortunately, the Duke, like all ancient and modern oracles are always expressed that he consulted,
in an ambiguous way. Often responded with grunts nobody knew whether they were of affirmation,
denial or doubt. The phrases occasionally escaped from his mouth between smoking and moist lips
were dark and dirty, cut, unintelligible in many cases. Moreover, everyone knew it was not possible
to trust him, to be enjoyed in confuse your friends and let them fall headlong into a bad deal.
However, Pepa insisted aspiring to boot from a brain light the secret of mine: joke took him
by the lapels of his coat, calling him old, taciturn, fox, displaying a shamelessness that
it had become flirtatious. The banker did not fire. He was responding with humor as he grunts and
lurid phrase that made laugh Calderon although I really wanted to do seeing tremendous cast ruthlessly
spat on the carpet. For the Duke, the hotness of snuff was not used enough and salivated repair
where to do it, unless in his house tended to get off the spittoon. Calderón was restless,
violent, just as if you cast them in the face.

A third Once, unable to restrain himself, he was looking for the
spittoon to put it aside.

Salabert sneer at him and winked at Pepa.

Calderón said he was quiet and talkative and sought to replace the
Duke Pepa giving advice on the funds.

But though man prudent and skilled in business, the widow not appreciated or even wanted to
hear them. At last After all, between him and Salabert huge gap existed:
one was an ordinary businessman, the another genius from the bench.

However, he nodded to the indications inarticulate sounds stock of
the owner of the house.

Pepa did not trust.

Salabert pulled away a little of the group and fell on the arm of
a chair by one gross position for which he alone was right.

Instead of being frowned upon those manners free and rude, contributed
not a little of its prestige and respect in society idolatrous is
taxed. Far from the pan again returned to salivate over the carpet
with some Malicious enjoyment, which despite its good-natured indifferent
mask is reflected by the face. Calderon also turned to cloud and pucker
up to, resolving to jump over certain social ruthlessly, he again
approached the spittoon without much value as before as he did with
his foot. Pepa sat on the other arm and continued to Caroca the Duke.
This began to set more attention on it. Their eyes frequent head wrapped
at the foot, noticing that they stopped in the chest high and provocative.
Pepa was a woman fresh appetizing. After a few minutes she leaned
banker with little finesse, and bringing her face to face, as it seemed
that it touched his lips, he said quietly

- Do you have many Osuna?

-
Some, yes, sir.

- You sell them to escape.

Pepa looked into his
eyes intently and noticed it being stopped. After a few moments it
was she who approached her face as the banker asked quietly:

- What
to buy?

- Redeemable - said the famous millionaire with the same
subject.

Entered at the time a gentleman and a lady, both young,
petite, smiling, and living in his manner.

- Here are my children
- Pepa said