 Rosalie thought he tore a piece of his heart when you were among
the ten hard hands with thirst-quenching metal of his friend. But there was no choice. Dona Candida
became very joyful to see Bringas, who said that felt better, although very weak in the head.
The doctor had examined in the morning and prognosis was favorable. Soon regain sight ... y.
.. Even thought he saw something when departed the band ... What was needed was a lot of rest,
patience and take with method and timeliness prescribed medicines.

"Who has come?" - Bringas asked sharply.

- I think it is Mr. Torres - said Candida - which has come to ask you.

- I have head so weak and yet so upset, I thought I heard counting money ... Although not want,
and although my doctor ordered me not to tamper with anything, I
can not provide attention to everything that happens at home.

I can not help. I have the ear alert, and even when I sleep I seem to not escape me no sound.

She
said to him that all diseased brain wisely calls inaction that he must surrender their senses
to indifference and rest, that while he was in bed he had not been to make conversation, and that
even their children would enter the room. This was manifested forming, with a deep sigh, and said
that I needed more patience and strength of will was to suppress
their desire to know everything and give orders.

While this was spoken in the dark bedroom, Rosalie Torres whispered to La Salette. Great as
were the precautions taken to make no noise of money to have twenty hard silver, tin tin was
some slight vibrating in the room and spread throughout the house in faint waves to reach the ear
subtle Bringas. Torres was most affected by the disease Your friend, expressed the hope that
it was not anything serious ... The bookkeeper Mompous had a similar attack in the light. "Nothing,
that being one day write, he was blind ... At first thought it was drop serene, but ten days of
sale and some medicines was good, though always delicate.

In the bathrooms are finished fifth ...». cure Bye the above so happy to take your money as
afflicted by the misfortune of D. Francisco.

A Isabelita, which was sad, concerned and not wanting to eat, she was sent home from Candida
to place him there all day playing with Irene and other girls in
the neighborhood.

Alfonsin was to school, and Paquito, whom her father's illness was very sad, did not leave the
house and wanted a bite to eat at lunch. Candida was the only person who was there a regular appetite.

"We
need food, even making an effort - said that of Bringas -. Do not
let you go well.

We must take strength to watch and work and take care all ... I also I have wanted, but I domain,
daughter, and as per requirement, because it is necessary. "

Shortly after our friend received a esquelita of Miracles in telling him that everything was
finally settled satisfactorily, and that waiting for the night. The letter breathed joy and satisfaction.

"This
poor Miracles do not know what is happening to us breaking ...-- Rosalie said the letter -.
Poor I beg you not to miss this night.

Son, go there and give it a moment account of this disaster ... Look, you go through the return
home of Fish and Carolina also whole ... Ah, she has fault, with their hair works. What a grotesque
woman !...».

The seamstress was that day, but the lady saying goodbye was not Mary Magdalene to taffeta,
to return next week. In the afternoon was also Milagros, who felt not have known much before
the event to be flying to console his friend. His grief sincere was not a party to conceal the
satisfaction of the lien for the successful settlement of their conflict metal at the critical
day. How and how he had made the arrangement, I would say later, it was not intrude on the occasion
of things that did not care ... "And the doctor say? ". The excellent lady expected that blindness
was an uneasiness a few days.

Ask God to heal the man as well, that model of parents ... "How you feel you can not come tonight
to my house ... It'll be the meeting very bright, and as for the buffet will be most wonderful
... Ya, ya I'll tell you how ... There for a while. "

Bidding farewell at the door, could not repress some very spontaneous outbursts of his passion dominant.
As they say a secret of importance, told her friend that that would evening dress with a hint
of white muslin scarf, lilac, which had placed inset and a jersey Watteau ... At the last minute
had been arranged as a T-shirt he was sent to Paris to San Salomó
... I thought her hair combed up, wavy large braid around the head
and long locks behind ... 'Well, not you mood to hear such rubbish
... Bye bye ... Tomorrow I will come to know and follow our D. Francisco
and counting, counting ...».

Bringas, they all found out, he told his wife:

"I've heard your whispers with Tellería at the door.

What about?

Have you dropped a fool? ... Poor woman! You truly say that peace is better to eat a piece of
bread with onions, to live as these people, amid great agony coated ... And tonight big mess!
... I swear I have pity them. "

XXII

Encouraged them a lot, because when the band rose a little, contrary to orders medical, perceive
light, though troubled and painful impression. Whatever it was, was the belief that the body was
not lost and that sooner or later regain the use of that precious role. Tickling bothered him a
lot and vision calenturienta of thousands of points of light or faint rays of metal, mobile,
fleeting, Images of the damned and never well execrated hairs retained the sick retina. With However,
its poor man carried my resignation, and asked God what was that you take out the bed, it was
great ordeal for him to be lying on his back, scrambled between the sheets burning. Permitiole
the doctor out of bed after three days, but with strict order not to move from a chair and sit still
and silent, indifferent to everything and do not receive visits deal or anything, still blindfolded,
severely. Arose, and was installed in Gasparini, in a comfortable chair with pillows. Do not
allow anyone to enter to give talk, or obeyed when pleading with
Paquito at night to read him a newspaper.

Respect his departure from domestic issues, little Rosalie was able
to achieve, because although he prided leaving the care of it all,
could not contain his desire for authority, that authority exercised
so well for many years, and each time he remembered the good use he
had made of their duties.

- Rosalie ...

- What is it, son?

- What
principle you wearing today?

- Why do you go about ...?

- I have
smelled beef stew ... Do not deny it ... Now more than ever, we must
appeal the tortillas potatoes, artichokes stuffed with sausage, and
if you press me, to pluck mutton, not forgetting the cheek.

If you trust Candida and charge the purchase soon will leave by doors.

You know that lady squandered two fortunes in comistrajos ... Di one
thing for lunch yesterday put fried hake.

- Is it thought that the
doctor send you to take it.

So he brought.

It later turned out not.

- Say one thing ... Where now is Candida?

- It's in the Furriel. Fear not hear you.

- Why do not you, good way to go to dinner at his house?

I do not like guests perpetual.

One day two, go ...

- But man ... If you knew how much it has helped the poor ...! Tomorrow we'll see. I can not tell
all of a sudden you go ...

- What has brought Prudential Plaza Barley?

- Three pounds of potatoes.

-
At what price?

- A six real.

- Look, dear, do not forget to write
down everything, so when I'm good, can continue to carry account of
the month.

Did you bring oil?

Do not bring wine, for you know that I was not expense now.

The doctor tells me to take a finger of Jerez, but do not buy it. If you send Dona Tula the two
bottles that I promised, I'll take it, otherwise not. If Candidita continue to come through
the morning and it must give the Jicarita of chocolate ... Will I be able to hear?

- No, no one there.

- Well, say you bring to it from the real four, which no doubt will taste like heaven, I I doubt
it at home category other than the three ... I'm thinking the gift that we to ask the doctor, and
that's what we are going to go all our savings. And with that I bring an eye doctor here, that if
he comes to bring, forget it. God does not want to be precise ... Yesterday spoke of taking baths.
I shudder to think. This from the baths is a rant that doctors have invented now to end to squeeze
the juice of the sick poor. In my time there had such baths, so there were no more diseases.
On the contrary, I think he died less people. If you talk about bathrooms, I recommend, daughter,
put a face, as I put it.

The most unique was that neither in that miserable state had to abandon my good accounting Thiers
from home. While in bed, gave his wife the keys to the drawer where he had money, but since it
was raised again wanted to take up the reins of government and exercise that sovereign function,
which is the most obvious attribute domestic authority. Not intimidated by superimposing their
blindness and active spirit to the body condition, rose up from its seat, approached the table,
felt the furniture to avoid tripping, and opened the drawer Take the drawer where the money
was. Tact had acquired in such a short period education, the fineness in his own private vision,
and knew the coins sobarlas weigh them up and only a little. With the chest on his knees, he was
taking and counting to put the race much in the hands of his wife. This was a timid observation:
"You see, my son, spending is higher in these days."

- Well, it
is not.

Dress up ... Ah! Today is Saturday, the twenty-four coal actual ... As for the dancing master,
if he insists on raising more tanks, I do not pay more than what the usual, the rest is on
your own. Do not make me more chicken stock, unless the chef chief send you some. Delete the fourth
chicken or the chicken. Fortunately I've gotten used not to be a man of fuss. The broth cooked with
good bone and marrow is better than nothing.

Rosalia, not to the contrary, all said Amen. After removing the everyday of spending money, Bringas
stayed a while with the chest on his knees, and raising a false bottom the mueblecillo had, took
out an old and kneaded portfolio, whose folds were appearing Some notes of the Bank. With
exquisite touch the recitations, duplicated, them again carefully fold, saying: "This is the five
hundred, these two four thousand ... etc.. " Conocíalos by the order they were posted ... Then
put everything in place with respectful pause, kept the ark, and throwing the key is deposited
in your left pocket vest. The lady drove up to put back into the chair. This door was always closed,
as before scrutinizing his treasure sent Rosalie to cast the door latch to keep out anyone.

A week was no deviation from the day of San Antonio, sad time in the house, without the hasten
sick much. There was better, it is true that he had not worsened which at the end of the day
is always a consolation. There was no doubt that the functions optics were kept intact, ie
D. Francisco saw, but the impression was so painful of light in his eyes, that if for a moment he
lifted the blindfold, the cruel pain and I felt the heat vivid obligábanle to wear it again.
His wife watched him with a dedication and attention worthy of the highest praise. She put the pads
on the eyelids belladonna when the pains were great, and he rubbed his temples with belladonna
and laudanum. Gave him all calomel at night with light doses of opium when he had insomnia, but
nothing put much care as the loving wife admonish him not to ever get up the band; it was the
poor man of genius so alive, since he was a little better and lacked time to take a peek into
the world, as saying.

- By God, man, do not be like ... Look injure you. You are like children. I do not know what
you are worth the reason and years. It tells the doctor that nothing in the world will discover,
and you engaged in so ... Thus do not advance anything. Be patient, that day will come that
you take off the black rag and you look at the sun. But now for some time blind girl, nothing but
blind girl. With a lot of formality, that if you give to open the window, as you say, you amarraré
hands.

- It's that damn band - Brinker said with a sigh - overwhelms me, I weigh like the bastion of
a wall ... It is true that I suffer a lot when the light hurts me, but also impatience, and
especially the dark mortify me horribly ... It is a comfort to see from time to time some little
thing, if only the cavity of the room, with objects deleted confused as it is comforting to see,
and certainly if I mistake not this mischievous retina sick, you're wearing a silk robe ...
Augustine who gave you do not waste you had to cut a dress to the
girl?

Ainda mais, which is now wearing a color and black currant ...

XXIII

Rosalie
heard this from the door.

Puzzled at first, soon recovered his composure, and he laughed:

- Did not I say that silk robe? ... Yes, for silk gowns are ... There you have it you better
head out to the window. See everything changed, everything you see wrong, the tartan you fancy
silk, and the dirty brown color you like currant ...

- Well, I swear ...

- Do not swear, my son, who is sin ... Silk Robes ...!, what else
would I ...

And he went quickly.

In the Camon moved the gown she wore the other very old, it was the generally used ...

- Are you here? - Asked Bringas after waiting a while, during which there was in doubt if his wife
was present or not.

- Here I am ... yes - Rosalie answered hastily answering -.

Baker ... I have not taken today more than three pounds ...

- Well,
I swear ... Will everything I upset?

- Are you still with the gown
?...-- said Rosalie approaching him and asking touch ...

The blind
man touched the fabric, squeezing it between his fingers.

"What is the touch, wool, wool and very lady."

And after another pause, during which she said nothing, Bringas, egged
on by his innate suspicion, he added:

- Because there's you to move
in the short time you were gone ... I seemed to sense noise and rubbing
of fabric ...

- Jesus!

... Hearing is. Maybe. Arranging dressmaker's there dresses Miracles ...

Paquito, who had just entered the street, sat with his father to tell some anecdotes from running
loose and read newspaper. That afternoon was Milagros I also have gone earlier, demonstrating
the health of Mr. D. Interest Francisco truly fraternal.

Some ratitos with him, but soon turned her and her farthest room colleague, who was the Furriel.

Marquise never clearly explained to her friend how she had been this happy arrangement of the famous
tightness of the day 14, but it must have been a very short term loan, so will later. The truth is
that the dinner was esplendidísima, and a celebrated chronicler of classrooms, with that style
is their peculiar eunuch, the praised and exalted to the clouds, using phrases between Spanish
and French do not repeat for fear that, reading them, my good readers
feel in your stomach like effects of tartar emetic.

When I read Don Francisco the relationship of the party lucida, the good man kept repeating: "Who
was the fool, Who would be the fool ...!».

The first few days after the soiree, Milagros seemed very satisfied. Gradually his satisfaction amenguaba,
and around 20 you could note in her sudden attacks of sadness. It was not on 22 but at times
with deep sighs revealed very serious apprehension. In San Juan and the times of calm were
the least, and the Marquise told his friend, very unpleasant secrets. This is scary hearing
such predictions, and saw a cloud coming over the black and stormy pass. Meanwhile, Milagros affections
were so extreme, that Rosalie did not know how thank them. Often speaking of costumes and fashions,
though the taste was not Bringas nothing, while her husband was ill. Fortunately, the doctor announced
a speedy recovery, and to this happy outcome such encouragement took the lady, her spirit began
to book no small a hole in all matters relating to the order of elegant clothing. Freebies
Miracles on that sad occasion he came to the soul.

And note that these were not bargain gifts. One evening, at parting, said, "Do you know the
hat is not going Florian right? You will fall perfectly. I'm going to send. "

And he commanded. Another day spoke of clothing, with more heat. "The goat's hair, which I have
medium do not like. I will send it tomorrow ... As you may be necessarily bathrooms with her husband,
you can use it there ... No, I do thank you. If I can not use ... Also I shall get the fichú
with green velvet ribbon and a felt cap for you fix it easily. For bathrooms, delicious. We also
send flowers, feathers, aigrettes ... I have six drawers full of these things ... Today I took
the gown seamstress currant ... You know you not going very well?

That color looks good on only the thick, the fresh faces ... Do you want? You can make some changes,
widen it a bit, and you will ... The fabric is very rich. "

Here's how they entered the house all these rich garments. Rosalia, as we have said, had no like
at all, and was stored in Kamon. Once, when his mind was calm, hopes for good was the doctor,
he would shut himself up in that piece to be tested gown, dress, hat ... Unable to resist temptation,
decided to Emilia several arrangements, extending a few things, reforming others completely.
At times, yielding to his passionate desire, out of the Carrion and took two or three laps around
the house with all those harness on his body. For this, waiting for the maid and the children were
outside and D. Francis Gasparini locked in with Paquito. More than once he was dressed up to the
admiration Candida, applying the criterion of such an approval or censorship wise. The widow
always touched felt the fury of applause, and to not give in noisy fuss, Rosalia it was reached
with the finger in his mouth, urging her to suppress any expression of astonishment and surprise,
lest some subtle ear perceives the Saleta what happened.

THEN BECOMING Carrion melancholy to modest, and there stripped of those galas, saying with sorrow:
"No I have like at all, not my spirit to these jokes. "

The 26 was when Telleria, no longer able to contain the wave of sadness that overflowed in his
troubled breast, poured it on his good friend, after this pathetic exordium has preserved
the story:

"Also I'll send you the muslin dress with purple overtones ... and all my lace Valenciennes, Alencon
and guipure point. What do I want anything now? The few jewels I
still may be some day for you ... I'm lost, I have no choice but to
hide, enter a convent, run, or what not ... If I could enter a convent,
would be the best ... And if God wanted me to carry, what service
I would! ... But I do not know what I mean ... It astound you see
me so distraught, so upset, I do not look the same ... When you know
...