 I do not regret gratitude,
but I want to finish build our affection, that you owe me something. I care the child as if
it were mine, and when I ascend to you or leave you as poor, in short, where appropriate, I Myself
will take you where you are, if small, will be well-bred; and if grown man, educated as God commands,
in the physical, made strong lad, moral, indeed a man. "

Sad was the separation, but the need was law. Journeyed to Valladolid husband and wife, durándoles
long time the bitterness of not getting the little boy with his brothers, but four months was
somewhat consoled, because Dona Manuela again declared that he was on tape. The change of scenery
should take the blame. Before the year, Jose was the father of another creature.

Apart weird way to have to trust a child to foreign hands, and excluding
fertility Manuela, the existence of Don Jose was not such as to weave
with it a novel.

In many cities was, the work consumed his days and nights the coffee and the leisure reading
newspapers, who was very fond, preferring to progressives: the house, perhaps never considered not
certain, always had little or no attachment. Each transfer was auction, and thus could refer
to when old than in many or few years of service had stayed in forty-two beds, past and obeyed by twenty
offices in more than thirty heads, none of whom he could complain. Don José was born to an employee,
his low intelligence not allowed the luxury of having his own ideas, and it lacked character
and initiative exposure to be a martyr for getting to reform routines. Their impressions, usually
little intense, also kept him away from the excitement and apathy: its great virtue was to love honored
to work with that tenacity of the middle reaches the enviable record name. Something, however,
infuriated him: Carlism. To speak against the tiger Maestrazgo, to Don Luis Fernandez de Cordova
on top of Zumalacárregui and the Espartero clouds, he encouraged his eyes, his tongue gained
strength, color words, and did wonders with the memory. He knew few details of battles, fighting,
games and both armies were marching from the first attempts of Don Carlos María Isidro to the
embrace of Vergara, so that, for the months when the action begins this story followed with great
interest the second significant rise of the absolutist, who always called rebels, because the
word seemed to wrap something offensive. As never left home, his main desire was to buy her newspaper
supplements, flyers or extraordinary which at the year 1872 were published in prodigious numbers, and few
friends went to see him knew their favorite conversation was the course of the war, news of
which he commented with memories of the campaign from 33 to 40, and military movements then,
now, by way of his, to be repeated. But what really impressed listening to was that when dealing
with priests who sent items, spoke of them as the other leaders, Full disregarding his priestly
character, but despite his hatred Carlism exploited the occasion to condemn the conduct of the clergy
who did this. Were just judge them as military commanders greater or lesser importance, but not
daring to download its outrage on them because as ministers of peace, leave the field to kill
fellow men. Sometimes phrases that eluded him, implied that the clergy did not want it, but never
out of his mouth insults and aggressive phrases, and if someone said them in his presence, not
only abstained from him chorus, but seeking to twist the spin conversation. People of their
privacy, knowing that this was the foundation were Fates of adjectives hard to talk about bad
priests, and not spare time instead of compliment to any chaplain who was distinguished by
good thing, but with this we Don Jose does not say in a clear its views on the people of the
cloth. Respect a moral, was what the vulgar call a saint. His fidelity to Manuela, even the
time of his youth, bordered on the unbelievable, and the children fell out of pure good. A
his greatest pleasures was that Leocadia you read the newspapers, whose news commented war,
as if to himself, while he rolled the cigarettes he had to smoking the next day. At the moment
unfolded treasures of erudition, referring many Olózaga anecdotes, O'Donnell, Gonzalez Brabo,
Sixto House, Asensio Calvo and Fernandez Rivers. Another of his favorite subjects of conversation
was to explain the cause of the grudge I had the Bourbons, continually citing as one of the
books you most enthusiastic, a booklet published after the Revolution of 68, in whose pages
contained statistics of victims that cost Spain dynasty since Philip V came to reign. Many
Sometimes she said: "What language the numbers! Since 1672, when Charles II was still alive
until 1868, the year that there were more executed for political crimes was 66. "

In 1872 Don José was revolutionary and hardened, and his idol Don Juan Prim "If he were alive
- repeated often - we would not have civil war! "

When he was sprawled on the couch, called Correspondence.

- Let old papers now, Dad, Pepe and Miller bring news.

- Well, my dear, good, but at least read the parts taken from the Gazette, but that does not say
ever the truth.

Leocadia picked up the paper and, approaching the light, read as follows:

"MINISTRY
OF THE WAR .-- Extract from telegraphic received in this Ministry
up early today:

»Catalonia .-- The Brigadier said yesterday plowing
action with all the factions together Gerona province, which broke,
causing many casualties.

Lieutenant Colonel Pina attacked his column to the factions gathered from Cosco, Torres, Baltondra,
Ferrer and Moline, that, in number 400 men, were in demand Olsana contribution. The enemy left
the village, leaving the troops held 13 prisoners, including the aforementioned Moline and other
officers, causing 11 deaths, appearing in this issue the leader Cosco, and seizing plus 24
rifles and other weapons scratched and effects of war.

"Basque Provinces .-- Pursued by the column heading to latro Arana-rebels
commanded ...

* * * * *

(Don Jose, interrupting ):--¡ That's it!

"Latro, latro-fascists!

       

Leocadia continued:

       * * * * *

»..... Led by Soroeta, Goizueta fell last night from some villages of Mount Oyarzun. In the
province of Vizcaya, the latest news, there are no more than scattered
Maidagan heading.

       In the rest of the peninsula no new extraordinary happens.

"

* * * * *

Suddenly sounded on the door of the house two knocks.

- There's your brother down, daughter, down.

Leocadia took the key off the dresser, and left without rushing. They heard little in the step
footsteps drowned out by laughter and Leocadia entered with two men in the room young, but
of a different type.

Pepe was the man that his sister Leocadia a woman, a Madrid purebred, pale, intelligent eyes, medium
height, easy word and movement fast: the other was his friend Miller,
who made love to Leocadia.

Pepe gentleman dressed like poor: Millán as being clean worker who takes time to groom him.
The first closer to his father, kissed him as a child could do, and
the second, before greeting, glanced at the door of the hall where
he had gone again with Leocadia two or three packages that brought
his brother.

- You see, Dad? - Pepe said .-- When I come alone, take
that half hour of opening, today, as I knew it came with me has to
jump down the ladder.

Millán, interrupting him, approached the table and began to talk to
Don Jose, avoid the jokes of your friend:

- You will know that the
items have been dissolved Girona ... The trouble is that the Baztán
have into two heads with a hundred men, and linked to another item,
about Estella, walk and in the vicinity of Pamplona.

- The Gazette
says nothing, at least not copy Correspondence.

- But the government
knows it, and the Ministry of War do not talk about something else.

Brother a home typesetter is a clerk in the Directorate of Infantry,
where he heard it.

- And for the Mastership, is there nothing?

-
Still ...

- As there are iron hand, we are lost.

- That does not,
the war may last as long as another, but Madrid do not come.

- The
dinner is coming next - "Dona Manuela, entering with a pan in his
hands.

In a cigarette paper could have made the menu that poor people: the
classic red seabream, cabbage salad, almond milk and desserts brought
by Pepe, there was no more.

The bottle Wheel was designed to Don Jose, who would give a couple
of drinks to Millán.

The other agreed say that white wine annoyed them a lot.

Shortly afterwards it was not the rasp bream; salad, or a leaf.

- Go to the health of those legs - said Millán, draining a drink and glancing at Leocadia.

- No re-run as they ran!

- All returns, Don José, everything you see you, to the Carlist.

Doña Manuela, bite still had not heard praise for his stew, he began
to thunder against the policy.

- Do not know about anything else.

Then let them come. Worse than these players now not be.

- Shut up, woman. You who know! It would be a horror. You - the old man said, addressing the
boys - have no idea what they did last time.

Lasted seven years, people could not leave the cities, women and children were shot to ... It
would be a shame ... now the army is well armed and better dressed. In the other war fought
with guns piston and spark up, and wore pants in winter thread.

Leocadia rose to fetch the milk of almonds, and then bringing back
the bowl.

- And all this in defense of religion - Miller said mockingly.

-
Religion has nothing to do with it, my children.

When you took up arms against Fernando VII, no one had abused the
religion during the war, the battalions Christines spent more time
on ranches Masses, the Liberals were almost more devout than the absolutists;
no one had messed with the Church, and of course that you have already
reached you, so San Carlos de la Rapita not had anything to do with
religion.

There are no more but four provinces want to impose the law in Spain.

If I lived Don Juan! That one was a man! Good is the almond milk! Anyway, we had dinner. Another
Christmas Eve! Who knows from here to the next! ...

- The spend together like this - said Millán - perhaps more united, - saying which looked Leocadia,
who lowered his eyes, between dodge and prudish.

- Above all, we will go through Tirso - Dona Manuela said .-- It is time for us to live together.
Come see him now, will soon be like giving birth to a son of thirty-four
years.

- Have you always lived apart?

- Almost all life.

We've already told you how was it to leave him with Don Tadeo. What we to do? We run more
provinces of the map. Don Tadeo it took a lot of love: that yes!

There would have been treated better if only his son. The only thing I felt bad, was it of cure
him, but I could not help. If only he were a priest or as Torrero
Muñoz Venegas and Martin Velasco ...

- Calle you, by God, Don José.

Cures "liberal? They are the worst!

Pepe, Leocadia and her mother were silent, feeling there was talk of that, because Don Jose such
cases, just getting in a mood of all the devils, but Miller, who from time back had a desire
to know the history of the case, was gradually forcing the old to the count.

- This gift would be delivered Tadeo people from church ...

- Cabalito: it was a terrific subject, but those who eat the saints, and spun the business with
great finesse. Tirso took a liking to, that's undeniable. I think the first thing that occurred
to him was to give race, without looking at what, to make man, then
his ideas, his relationships ... When I moved from Granada to Zamora,
made the trip with the boy just so I could see; already had twelve
years that I thanked him very much, because he had seen only two escapes
cortísimas we did that and I from Valladolid.

We wanted to pick up the boy then, Zamora, but on the one hand, and
understand the considerations of how much we had to don Thaddeus ...
he insisted that he was not take off, said Tirso was so good that
he had taken so much love ... In addition, our situation was not good,
that is, never has been, We could never save anything.

Now, if it were not for retirement, I do not know how we would live. In order to conclude, when
we wrote that Don Tadeo Tirso wanted to become a priest, had already put in the seminar. What do
we do? Although I had more energy than a lion ... then: Stand it! Anyone Arrisca to fight
with people from church! ...

Coming here was silent, fearful that it was the language.

- But he had a vocation?

Pepe, who had long since showed signs of impatience, could not hold back and broke it by saying
between mocking and angry:

- Vocation! Vocation! Who knows what that is?

May feel tired of living man and thinking, but a boy of sixteen years,
as was Tirso then, when he entered the seminary, Understand how to
devote to God?

It was a real shame, deception, robbery, kidnapping mayorem ad Dei
gloriam!

- Yes - said Millán - like when you put the Jesuit family
where girl with money and soon cátatela nun.

- Exactly the same, boy.

But it must be fair. In this case there was a noticeable difference in favor of Mr. Thaddeus,
who was a fan exageradísimo, and yet a very good man.

He should certainly take care of my brother for the father to pay for one of the causes which
we've already had, then their ideas, their friends from church, the influence exerted on him his cronies,
his horror at the boy to learn what is learned on the books against the rascals, not wanting to send,
with his godson, a center realistic learning where the province would
not send their children, all contributed sin.

There was in him, at first, evil intent: Don Tadeo thought to action meritorious, almost a charity.
Did not notice a child who stole his parents, his purpose was a desire
to serve God.

- Let a man made calamity.

Doña Manuela silent because even disliking the way your child was expressed, understood that
he was right: Leocadia, accustomed to similar scenes, hardly heard, for have all heard that
ad nauseam. Also, what absorbed his attention, for the moment walking was not ready for the
cogiese Millan among his foot under the table, excesillo apologized for the love of the bridegroom
and favored by the classic couch with her long underskirt of green baize playing fell to the ground.
Don Jose was making signs with his head Pepe assent as he spoke.

- You're right about everything, my son, Don Tadeo wanted to do well
and we screwed up.

Because, Indeed, who is from the Church, only her.

There are days when I do not think I have such a son.

Doña Manuela, without being pious, as the creatures take the world did not leave time for it, professed
some respect and unconscious inexplicable things and sacred persons, on However, since his eldest
son became a priest, began to have a shadow of worship as indeterminate and vague to the priestly
class, so, how often attended such talks, he spent a hard time. Their lack of enlightenment
and religious feeling low, they could not pay arms to fight, but
it still hurt Tirso clergyman, and having so many people around the
world consideration save them, his other son as they looked with disfavor.

-
How old are you now? - Said Millán.

- Check the account: of the three
children we have left, is the largest, was born in 38, has now thirty-four,
then going it (by Pepe), who is twenty, and that (for Leocadia) who
will be nineteen soon.

- If you have lived the other, would be seven,
and all I have grown up - with some added proud mother - least Tirso.

Now, for the first time, we will live together.

- I wish to live in peace! - Pepe said.

- Hail-Mary Immaculate! What things has this brother that God has given me!

- I mean, I do not care who you know. I have fear of coming Tirso, the desire and fear.

Don José silent sadly, that did not like, but since he knew the next
arrival Madrid with his eldest son, had fought for the same soul that
stirred misgivings Pepe, and listening to him, he thought to himself
heard.

- For our part - continued Pepe - no one is to disturb this
harmony.

Here, you've seen since we know, Millán, my parents live for this
and for me, us to them.

These furniture that are older than me, have never heard a dispute not the slightest disrespect.
Leocadia and I tried to mime that old people over a new toy boy. Do you know why? Because we have
not separated ever, and we slept one night without kissing, or had
a pain that is not the other, neither silent nor joy, nor has anyone
eaten a bun without saving the other, or a suit made without thinking
about how many clothes were each one, in a word, boy, our ideas, in
my conviction, my parents and the latter by goodness, I have linked
all the love, treasuring day by day and hour by hour, unmixed selfishness,
without sharing it with anyone ... (A Don José is moistened the eyes
of taste.) Y now come Tirso, educated away from us, become a man ...
and we welcome them with open arms.

For my part, I can not wait: a few more care will be playing Dad more of us at home.