 The world disappeared for Esperanza. A delicious and vague feeling
of happiness and freedom, like a bird that would fly if it was provided soul, into his heart
and filled him with joy. It was also the first time that Pepe Castro squeezed his waist. He
felt himself seized by him in the whirlwind of couples and thought alone. She and him!, And
music caressing their ears and hearts, playing sweetly ineffable impressions that beat in the
depths of his soul. By resting a moments, his face was so intense this divine feeling of first
love her aunt Clementina, across from the arm of the president of Congress, could not but smile
him a look half tender, half mocking that was red. Pepe Castro struggled to get the words in the
body. That night, the excess of emotion was half-mute. The joy that overwhelms his soul was
reflected, as nearly always happens, in a sense benevolence toward the whole world. The dance
seemed charming. All men were funny. All women were beautifully dressed. Even Ramon, who happened to
go ahead, could get some drops of the dew benefactor.

- Do not dance you, Ramon? - Asked with a smile so kind, that the
illustrious council felt faint with happiness.

- I was entertaining
the Earl of Cotorraso so far.

- For couples looking for .... Look:
there is Rosa Pallarés not dance.

The future leader was quick to invite her, thinking characteristic
penetration Esperanza gave the couple because it was pretty ugly.

Rocked in this pleasant and sweet thoughts spent a happy time dancing
with the general's daughter Pallares, "one of our most beautiful cod"

Cobo saying Ramírez. Believed to be complying with a mandate of his beloved, giving a testimony
indisputable that his jealousy, if felt, were unfounded.

When the waltz ended, came as a medieval knight coming out of the tournament, to receive the award from
the hands of his lady.

But as there is no complete happiness in this world, as time he approached the girl Cobo Ramirez.
They sat beside him and plied with compliments and attention. Asked one fan, the other handkerchief.
The two sought draw your attention getting fun conversation, flattering their pride for all
means they could.