 

When he got home Clementina was six and a half. Hissed the driver. He left his pavilion the doorman
to open the door of the gate and then the car. The same is ordered to pay the driver. The lady,
without saying a word, entered the garden, which was small but cute and neat. He climbed the
marble staircase under a large marquee which occupied more than half of the facade of the hotel.
This was not very large, but it made luxury and art, Novelda white stone and thin brick. Osorio
had built what was only four or five years. As the plans were well thought and discussed, provided
a proper distribution, making it more comfortable perhaps that of his father, to be this three
or four times.

He found a servant in the hall.

- Stephanie goes where?

- It's been a long time has come, ma'am.

Went through a great hall lit by two lamps with frosted sustained
pumps bronze statues in the paths, continued down the corridor and
took the stairs to the main without bumping into anyone.

Close and the room that was entering her boudoir, and found Ferdinand
a fourteen-year criadito liveried very pussy and suitable to their
years.

- Stephanie?

- Must be in the kitchen.

- To raise immediately.

He

entered the boudoir, and going to full-length mirror supported by
two studs gilded wood, took off his hat.

It was the cabinet a small piece, dressed her blue satin with papier-mâché
borders imitating a garland of flowers.

Above the fireplace, satin dress also had two magnificent chandeliers and a clock, the work
of our silversmiths the last century. The fire appliances were also of silver. White carpet blue
border. Amid a confidant of gold tissue lined. Armchairs, gilded chairs. In the ground two large
feather pillows. In one corner mirror, in another a wooden desk Pompadour style inlaid, on the
other two columns a blue velvet-lined holding two lamps that now there illuminates the room.
Communicated this piece on one side with the toilet this lady and to his bedroom, on the other
with a little room where he used to receive their friends on Tuesday evening or night play triplet
with intimates. In the boudoir came only a few trusted friends who went to visit her in hours not
specified. This was where these symposia held secrets, so delicious for women, where their thinking
is entirely empty, from the most hidden and deep to the frivolities of the day, details of costume
and fashion.

A few seconds after taking off his hat Stephanie appeared. It was a pale girl with beautiful dark eyes.
He was dressed in his condition, with elegance and beauty. Above brought suit gray apron trimmed
with white lace.

- I could wait, girl! Where were you stuck? - Said in a tone of moody and distracted while the
lady.

- Was in the kitchen .... He had gone to give a few stitches at the
base of Teresa, who has been broken a nail - said the maiden, with
affected humility.

Clementina was silent, absorbed in his thoughts clearly. Placed in the mirror strip was left
on the shelter, at the same time contemplating the eternal curiosity beautiful women feel
about themselves.

- Have you been home from school? - After casually asked.

- Yes,
ma'am.

- What did he say?

- Not now has a double silk so that color,
but if the lady wants to send for her.

- Ugh!

For this trip need not saddle .... What about Perfection?

- Yes,
ma'am.

That on Saturday sent the hats.

- Have you wondered how Michael was the father?

- I have not had time .... Is so long ...

- How far? Did not have you driven?

- No, ma'am .... Johnny told me that the mare was unfettered ....

-
Why do not you put one of the Norman horses?

- I do not know ....
Always find some excuse when the Lord sent me out by car.

- It seems
to me .... Neglected daughter, and I'll fix that.

Well, is Mr. Johnny, with its pretensions to a must!

To take a look at her maid in the mirror, she could easily see something
strange in their eyes.

He turned for the better view. In fact, Stephanie's was red.

- You've cried, girl!

- Me? ... No, ma'am, no.

The way to deny it was hypocritical. The lady did not need much to insist that confess it, and even
the cause of his tears.

- The boss lady - started to whine - the boss, that took a little while now me .... When I say
anything or say laughter releases the crap .... And other course,
the other, as I have a grudge because the lady loves me, and flatter
the head, laughing too .... Because I said today that he would tell
the lady, has filled me of insolence and she caught me in the kitchen.

-
Lying!

And who is he to miss you? - Vehemently exclaimed the mistress .-- Go, call him. It is necessary
I warm the ears, as this fool Johnny. If we neglect going to send servants in this house more than
the masters!

- Lady ... I do not dare.

Want to send a message by Fernando?

- Do what you want, but call him.

He had deeply angered to hear the sobs of her maid. Stephen was her favorite, who distinguished
between all trusted servants and many of their secrets. Like all despots past and present, was
dominated without realizing it. The smarmy character and flatterer of the housemaid had won
his heart so that with it, without knowing herself, had given the will. Stephanie was in fact
the boss at home because he commanded the lady. The servant who was not in his grace, was preparing
to leave in more or less short term. And what may be happening as a safe rule in such cases
the preferred and loved by the lady was deeply unsympathetic to slavery.

Does not occur this only for this shameful passion to a greater or lesser degree resides in all
beings human envy, but also because it provided accurate and flattering hypocrite with the great,
not at the same time arrogant and evil with the child.

Called by Fernando, who gave the order Stephanie, soon to appear at the door Cook cabinet,
with the trappings of office, that is, with an apron and white cap,
all whitest.

He was a young man of thirty years, fresh-faced and not unhappy with long black whiskers.
In the frown contracted his brow, concern was seen in his eyes, I realized that I knew what
came calling. Clementina was sitting in the confident.

Stephanie had retired to a corner and laid eyes on the ground to get the boss.

- Let's see, Cayetano, just know that after dealing with little consideration to this girl, has taken
you from the kitchen. I'm calling to tell you and I agree that any question brought evil to
another, or you are entitled to take anyone into my home.

- Lady
... I have not tratadu evil .... It is she who mistreats todus nus
... click here click there, without dejarnus in peace - stammered
the cook Galician accent.

- Well, if you click here and click there,
ningunu of you is facultadu to shameless with her .... It says to
me and concluded - he replied warmly Mrs. imitating the accent the
head.

- It's that ....

- It's just that, nothing.

You know what I said.

We concluded - said he loves to act imperative.

The cook, his face lit and the whole body trembling, remained motionless for a few seconds. Then,
before retirement, a long look angry at the maid, still Eye on the floor with hypocritical
expression which shone through the triumph of self-esteem.

- Chismosa! - He only threw to the face said.

The lady rose from her seat, and brimming with anger at such disrespect,
he said:

- And how dare you insult my presence?

Go away you soon .... Remove of my sight!

- Madam, what DIGU is that she is to blame ....

- Well if you have the guilt, the better .... Go away.

- Todus iremus nus of the house, lady, because that fool no one can
suffer.

- You, for one, as if he was gone.

Can you find another place to serve I will not tolerate any servant
I want to impose.

The cook once more he fell motionless and stunned by this sudden departure,
but recovering then turned on his heel, saying with dignity:

- Okay,
ma'am, I will pursue.

Clementina continued after he left muttering:

- But what is this gallegazo bold! Will cress? I do not think anyone but me touch him like servants
....

Suddenly subsiding by virtue of another idea that came, said:

- Come, come to dress, it's too late.

He went into his dressing followed by Stephen.

Contrary to what was assumed, it had the countenance severe storms.

Quickly began to shed their street clothes to put on half ate ceremony
and received his intimate evening, always clearer, with a small Descote
and arms covered.

The maid, to his suggestion, took out a strawberry costume squeezed the large mirror closet
entirely occupied by one of the paintings on the wall.

Before putting her hair straightened and took the bronze booties
and replace with the right shoe.

I had not opened his mouth the pale maiden until then, reflecting in the face of increasing
sadness and concern. In the end, was kneeling at the feet his mistress, looked up shyly to
say it:

- Madam, I beg one thing ... Cayetano not dismissed.

Clementine looked up with surprise:

- Do these have?

... So after you have been you who ....

- It's that lady - articulated Stephanie getting all red which allowed
her complexion - if now dismissed him, I will take others dislike.

-
And do you care?

The girl insisted very earnestly and more and more appealing and persuasive
words.

The lady refused recently.

As the issue was minor and not surprisingly the observed interest and even anxiety that his favorite
was when the cook stay, soon to give, ordering her to settle the matter. This girl's face became
animated at once, began as a lark and began to maneuver around his mistress with extraordinary
alacrity.

Two taps on the door given the surprise of both.

- Who is it? - Asked the lady.

- Are you wearing, Clementina? - Was heard from outside.

It was the voice of her husband.

The surprise of the lady did not fall for this.

Osorio up rare once to her room while she was alone.

- Yes, I'm wearing. Are there people down?

- The usual: Lola, and Bonifacio Pascuala .... Is I have to talk to you. I hope you here in the
room.

- Well, here goes.

From then until he had settled, Clementina was silent stubborn, expressing
in the face of grim concern not go unnoticed by her maid.

In his fingers, to put the finishing touches to the folds of her
skirt had a slight tremor, like the first girls dress to go to a dance.

Osorio

was waiting, in effect, above the parlor next to his boudoir. Sat carelessly in a chair, but when
he saw his wife got up, before dropping spittoon in the tip of the
cigar smoking.

Clementina noted that it was somewhat paler than usual. It was the same man of good and evil
factions color when married, but in the last twelve years he had spent far its nature. Many wrinkles
in the face, gray hair and beard, the eyes less vivid.

Was to close the door that his wife left open, and approaching it
with affected told naturally:

- The cashier handed me a receipt today
of fifteen thousand pesetas yours .... Here it is.

He took the bag and slip it into a glossy and fragrant, which introduced
his wife.

This what looked for a moment with grave face, dark, unblinking,
and remained silent.

- A fortnight ago gave me another nine thousand
.... Here it is.

The same operation, and the same silence.

- Last month I made three, one of seven thousand, one of eleven thousand and one four thousand
.... I have them here too.

Osorio shook the handful of papers for a moment before the eyes of the lady. Seeing that it not
opened his mouth, he asked:

- Do you agree?

- What? - Said dryly.

- With these items they are accurate.

- What will be if the receipts
are signed by me.

I have little memory, especially on issues money.

- It's a great happiness - Osorio said, smiling ironically, returning to save portfolio roles -.
I too have tried many times without it. Unfortunately, the cashier in charge always cool one ....
Well! - He added, seeing that his wife did not retaliate -. For I have not gone to anything
but to ask you a question, and is as follows: Do you think that things can continue like this?

-
I do not understand.

- Let me explain: Do you think you can continue taking the box every few days such quantities
flooding like this?

Clementina, who was pale when he entered, had been strongly embodied.

- As you will know you.
- Why better? ... You should know where to get your fortune.

- Well,
I do not know - replied with difficulty restraining his chagrin.

-
Nothing is more clear. The six hundred thousand dollars that your
father has given me to marry, as they are farm produce, as you can
find out about books, about twenty thousand dollars. Spending the
house without my own particular sum but three times that amount ....
Take now if you like the result.

- If you regret that your money
is spent, you can sell the houses - with contemptuous said Clementina
dry, turn pale again.

- Is that if sold tomorrow, would I be responsible
with my money amount. Do not you know that?

- I will sign any paper
saying that you do not charge anything.

- Not enough, dear, not enough.
The law does not exempt me never to respond to the dowry as long as
you money .... Also, if you spend it happily (stressed this word),
the business would very good for you, but to me deplorable, because
I always was under an obligation to ... provide for your needs.

-
What to keep, right? - She said with bitter irony.

- I wanted to
avoid that word ... but, in fact, is the most accurate.

Osorio spoke
in a cheeky twang and protector that was tearing at multiple sites
the pride of his wife. From the fierce quarrels that had occurred
under their separation the same roof, had not had an interview in
such species as the present. When coexistence originated some friction
resolvíanlo and dry with a brief explanation passing, in which both
without deposing the pride, they used caution for fear of scandal.
But now the question touched to the quick to Osorio. For a banker,
splendid it is, is the quick money. Besides self-esteem, although
nothing had apparently been greatly in recent years. Not enough to
feign indifference and contempt for the excesses of a wife, not enough
pay in the same currency paseándole ahead of the beloved eyes, make
displaying them in public. The arms are identical, but the injuries
that cause women are deeper and more serious than those of men. The
discomfort free conduct of its wife caused him did not diminish over
time. The gulf between them was growing deeper. Therefore, the angry
vengeance this time grabbed by the hair