 The works have been done and continue
  making, are prodigious, ranging spent millions of pounds. The two
  colossal towers and soaring, a which is completed, placed as they
  are forming a canvas, which faces to the Abbey, are on their
  own two monuments of art, admirable and beautiful, filled
  with a rich mantle of Gothic ornaments, the more delicate
  work.

  
  This is only the towers, after the building is huge, majestic,
  surprising. To enter it, the first salon in which crosses is the
  same that was tried Charles I °, the same as Long Parliament met,
  the same as Cromwell's vacated as everyone knows.

  
  
  It is a superb living room, covered with art work and a very pretty
  roof. To cross in all its extension is presents a ladder at the
  end of which provides a sitting room circular, to the right, the
House of Lords, to the left of the commons.

  
  
  Both are small, but wonderful: much resemblance to the Catholic church
choir: superb wood, profusion of and gold trim, Saxon-Gothic taste.

  
  
  The interior of the chambers, in the middle of a session, is
  a curious spectacle. Except the speaker, all have their hats on,
  túmbanse on pads, many sleep easily, others talk, the forum intended
  for the public is small, everything is the same in England, however,
  is hardly participation of the people in the sessions of each house:
  in the center of the room on a table, is the crown and
  scepter the Albion, the chancellor, or president, wearing
  a suit ridiculously strange historic covers his head wig white
  that have been adorning the chairs from the Parliament origin.

  
  
  The meeting room of the House of Commons is more than of Lords:
  They are both smartly dressed in gothic ornament chosen.

  Front of Parliament is a famous statue of Canning.
  
  The fashion of the statues has led to the English to end: Wellington,
  that without the timely assistance of the Prussians is defeated
  at Waterloo, Wellington, who returned to London After this battle,
  has fallen asleep to the beat of the cheers you have directed,
  without caring for any of the English army, organization which he
  has neglected disasters East, the Wellington, I say, is in
  London three or four statues, five or six streets in his name, and
many others squares or plazas, where it reads Wellington.

  
  
  All extremes meet: the few in our Spain deny them to the point of
many that deserve them: in England, the lavish to the abuse.

  
  
  The monarchical feeling well, or at least its appearance,
  is written all over in London, apart from infinite domestic
  establishments, which was called real, all the public carriages have
a crown, and written under Queen Victoria.

  
  
  In the walk of Hyde Park, he can not enter more than coach aristocracy
  rental cars, even leading to most virtuous and illustrious man
  of the world, have no entry in the walk ... that the judge who shout
so loud in praise of the nation ....

Among the places worth seeing
London, excel the Trafalgar and Waterloo, both are very great, with
magnificent buildings, and their statues of Nelson and Wellington.

  
  
  La Cité, which alone is a real town, call powerfully the attention
  of the traveler, it contains within it Bag, Bank, Post, San Pablo
and a thousand other line of business establishments, which make your
site the most animated point of the globe without a doubt.

  
  
  At a street out of London Bridge [19], covered eternally
  over carriages and pedestrians below, of vapors. To the left of
  the end of the bridge is the pier iron line in Paris, Southampton
and six other or seven.

  
  
  The heart of the Cité need be to get to understand the possibility
  of a movement so enormous: thousands of carriages cover
  the ground in all directions, it is impossible to cross a across
the street to another, just marching with extraordinary waged a precaution
being struck, not for the clumsy the drivers, which is said to actually
have more skill anywhere, but by the incredible number of cars in
circle and are confused and confusing whirlwind tighten.

  
  
  The lord mayor is the king of the Cité, to enter its Queen site,
  you need the permission of that officer, the Cité cops are
  different from those of London in Live sleeves: Speaking of police,
  remember that only to the Thames in London is a special police
  force.
  

  The buses that circulate throughout the city as the capital
  of England are as a measure: here and there and at times renew
  accurate shots, it only proves distances the colossal London.

What
  England has probably more valuable, is undoubtedly some the famous
  Crystal Palace.

  Neither London nor all provinces of the kingdom, together, have
  more wonderful thing: it is a wonderful monument, is the realization
  of a large bright idea, is a title of glory, is a gold page.
  

  To go to visit the famous temple of industry, trains every ten
  minutes: the journey is done in a room little more hours. The
  pier of the center of a neighborhood, and cars fly over the
  rooftops at the time of output: view of London from the carriages
  in such a time, offers some interesting and new that can not but
call attention.

  
  
  Upon arrival at the palace, travelers are dilated and splendid
  gardens, which are like the carpet that tends to foot of building:
  plenty of ponds and fountains adorn the vegetation canvas offers
  always proud in England.
  

  Closing the box stands the majestic palace, all of glass,
  superb and wonderful. Three large, wide ramps, with bleachers and
  stone and marble statues, give input at the foot of palace. Three
  bodies are colossal front; closed flanks new ones recently raised.

  
  
  The palace has, besides the low, three floors. Abound in profuse
  wealth of splendid rooms, including excel on the patio of the
  lions of the Alhambra, faithfully copied.

  The Egyptian hall, decorated with hieroglyphs and pure Egyptian
  statuary: Asia, with pompous elegance, and other many
  that I do not remember.
  
  Inside the palace, and through the halls, there is what in Paris
  have been copied, abundant and elegant fountains, trees of all climates,
flowers in profusion.

  
  
  The endless columns that hold the palace, all of glass, and seems
supported by the air, are iron, slender, thin and elegant.

  The brilliant clarity of the whole building, such as glass
  are his canvas, the scent of flowers that grow in their classrooms,
  the singing of abundant birds that live there, the rich decoration
  that saw it all, the murmur of the copious spring which rises in
  the middle of rooms, the view of the countryside, that without
  hindrance is offers everywhere around the building, the whole
  all together, it made a pleasing emotion.
  
  At the foot of building a military band performs every Saturday
  selected pieces of music.

  Needless to add that nothing missing, inside the palace is a hotel,
  abundantly stocked with their corresponding English cuisine. 

The
  palaces in London Queen is certainly not worth punishment: they
  are good buildings, very elegant enclosures parks, and ponds with
cattle, such as Whitehall near Abbey, but not monumental.

  The Lords have very good hotels mostly in squares, plazas that
  are fragrant forest of trees and gardens, around London
  found.
  
  Tower of London, famous for the disaster that has been temple,
  only through the prism of historical memories, offers
  interest.

  Located to the left of the bridge London, from which enjoys a magnificent
  panorama, with a city ??on either side of the river, with steam
  constantly elegant crossing, with plenty of temples and palaces
  to the right and left, with Richmond at the end of one side,
  and the tower London to another.
  
  London is just nice for the English, and Paris is the city of
  all foreigners in the world, the English capital can not liking more
than the sons of the country.

  Society is the most difficult and inaccessible: if a foreigner
  is not introduced a single relationship will not even stay a year,
  but once introduced, the company is nice and easy. The kitchen
  English, not all foreigners love is the only one there, because
  a shortage of hotels and restaurants of Paris, and scarce must undergo.

The
  character of the city is serious and grave, Sundays terribly
  sad, just trade, and nothing but the trade is English life, but
  are theaters entertainment, excluding Sundays, it is useless to
  seek the joy, is not nowhere: it is difficult if not impossible to
eat individual taste: in short, does nothing for London foreigners,
Paris, everything in the French capital is the traveler the realization
of all tastes, how live, in the English capital, it is necessary to
yield to foreign style, to give the familiar and friendly, forget
Paris one if you left your country, in London never ceases to be abroad.

The

  reason is easily explained: there are two diametrically
  opposed people in All: habits, background, character, lifestyle,
  all different, everything else: So much for aliens Overview:
  I know me say that while I traveled and tasted in London capital
  offers few pleasures, but I lived in a good house, and I was constantly
  given away, left his room not with regret, as I happen to leave
  Paris, but no work: happy, yes, very happy, having visited the capital
  curious the English, happy trip it considers necessary for
  who wants to study English society, but without the feeling
  smaller, without any violence.
  
  London, in 1856, has given the world a disgusting spectacle: the life
and property threatened and unsafe, citizens, through the streets,
beaten, theft and insult of day in the middle of the metropolis, the
roads all of the Area covered with beggars of London, dealing in undertake
and abusing helpless women.

  
  
  This is in regard to personal safety, public hygiene has had the
  following enemies: apart from its mist, cold and rains have been
  adulterated in London, according to official data, all food
  items. The same genera have been sold with false weights, so that
  in addition to distorted with Subject to public health all essential
  items need, were sold with false weights and measures ... does not
  need comments, and these facts are official published English
  government, for education of those who ascribe to London
  a thriving civilization, advanced and full of life.

  
  
  With regard to public morals, the courts of London have taken in
  1856 of a vast number of processes reflect a general corruption
  of customs.
  

  Prisons have received a special quota, which number despair, outrageous
  robberies were committed by public employees, as well as ways
  companies agents iron, and the names of Robbson Redpath, and
  others whose acts criminals have so outraged public morals, the
  Paul Dean disaster, Sadler and others, suicide, acts of drunkenness,
  the 36,000 workers who walked the streets of London, hungry,
  miserable, unemployed, of 1.200 million pounds spent on the
  war in East which have greatly increased the public debt, which
  as a marble hangs over England, all these events together form
  a little envy a town called free and civilized.

  
  The divorces, outraging modesty and morality, are arranged
  money, lowering the dignity and mocking to the Women are another
huge box that no people should give consideration to the public.

  
  
  What has saved up to British society today, the timbre high with
  his great feat, is the respect that all English professors at the
  law, and his unalloyed patriotism. No these two conditions,
  especially the first, the revolution had called and impressive
  at the gates of England and whole society had been shaken to its
  foundations.
  
  In 1856, 44.159 children were born in London, and 42.674 girls:
  male killed 28.894 people, 26.892 of women, the total
  number of inhabitants in London had December of that year was 2,616,246,
  a figure crecidísima and the greatest of all European capitals.

  
  
  According to a report published in London in January 1857,
  people who traveled along the Thames in the year of 1856 were in
number four million.

  This crecidísima figure, seem exaggerated has not visited London,
  it is not surprising in any way has been the extraordinary
  number of fumes all day across the Thames, leading usually
  many people fuck each over the bridges.
  
  Marching with great speed, and when passing under bridges the river,
instantly down chimneys without stopping up, they arose immediately
after crossing the arc where they cross.

  
  
  The glance that offers the Thames on a clear day of the month July,
  is magnificent and big, impressive and very wide river, with its
  magnificent bridge, and crossed by innumerable vapors; and fencing
the river on both banks, two large canvases palaces, churches, monuments,
is a remarkable recreational site view of the Thames.

  
  
  The prisons of London, that a few years ago were in a sorry state,
  have recently received major improvements, and its current situation
  is worthy of study by travelers.
  
  Cuéntanse various public libraries in London well organized and served:
history museums natural, sculpture and painting, are worth a visit
with length by the riches they contain: in paintings mighty works
there to admire about the different schools know.

  
  
  Another of the great achievements that made the English people since
  it is governed constitutionally, is the respect that It professes
to individual security.

  
  
  It's great and admirable, and enter it here, I have a real satisfaction,
  and I wish that other governments Imitate Europe at this point
  to England. The same can be said of his wise laws on press, high
  institution, August and civilization, to which people should be as
good possess public gallery of the society, advocate oppressed, yes,
England has understood better than anyone great power of the press,
so we abide by and respect him for that the English press is free.

  Hopefully it will soon be all Europe presses!
  
  Manchester, Liverpool and Southampton, are the cities I know in England
  apart from London.

  
  
  Once you've written everything from the capital England has caught
  our attention, we shall point out some news briefs on the top
  industrial cities mentioned.
  

  Liverpool, which in a few years has increased its population
  of a so great, and in the way of manufacturing advances resolved
  to step up and steady progress, has today a population of 250.000
inhabitants.

  
  
  Its rail lines, who put it in rapid communication with London, Manchester,
  and many other points, increase their importance. The city
  is big and beautiful, it belongs to the county Lancaster, its favorable
  situation, as an intermediate point between Ireland and
  England, the advantages provided commercial.
  
  Mersey river bathes its surroundings, and the vast manufacturing
  occupies the city's industrial activity, enhances all days of its
importance and significance.

  
  

  There are excellent hotels, many buildings of consideration
  and some very good roads.
  
  What the traveler should visit in Liverpool, as in all Albion industrial
populations are establishments manufacturing, real English power centers,
theaters of greatness, monuments of their civilization.

  
  
  Mechanics with all its prodigious advances, industry with his progress,
  the admirable order which reigns, products they offer, everything
is worth seeing, all be explored.

  
  
  The environs of Liverpool are also delicious, and Tours There is
  a lot easier, are worth being seen.
  
  From Liverpool to Manchester were addressed to me, belonging as Liverpool
to Lancaster County, and the center of the industry, has a population
of 200,000 souls, when a century ago was a small and insignificant
town fourth order.

  
  
  The industry, flourishing and powerful as in Liverpool, is that has
been so rapid flight to the city.

  It is located on River Irwell, and has over three hundred steam
  engines crecidísimo whose number seems incredible, operating in Manchester
over 30,000 looms, and life and movement to provide prodigious activity.

  Its rail lines to Liverpool, London and other everyday items increases
  their wealth.
  
  In this city, I will say the same thing in Liverpool, which is necessary
visit the manufacturing facilities in preference to all; England are
major national, monuments.

  
  
  Manchester has stately buildings, hotels, tours, beautiful streets
and a thriving industrial animation.

  They are also worth visiting, as in Liverpool, delicious around
  the city.

  
  If the foreigner is intending to stay long enough in Manchester
  or any other city in England, you need absolutely, if you do
  not want to be bored, be present to some club, the only
  way to know the society and distracted in somehow.

  Once submitted it will go well.
  
  As Manchester is visited by many foreigners, and as its manufacturing
  and trade pay much importance, there quite animation in
  the streets and promenades, hotels are regular; cuéntanse few notable
  buildings as art.
  

  And here ends our notes on lightweight Manchester Liverpool. Southampton
  will talk later, now we move to Italy.
  

  # Italy #.
  
  The trip to Italy I made from Switzerland. I left the capital
  Federal diligence Lucerne, short and delightful journey which takes
place in eleven hours.

  I moved to come to Lucerne Fluelen on Lake Lucerne.
  
  Nothing is more poetic, nothing more pleasant than the distance across
  halfway between Lucerne and Fluelen: the time spent is the
  two hours.

  
  Small steamers plying from one point to another, offering
  comfort and cleanliness.
  

  As we begin the journey, visitors admiring the Riggi towering
  mountains and Pilate, crowned with snow, hide your head in the clouds.
  As the vapor moves, riding the blue waves of the lake, surrounding
mountains Cortes and capricious profiles, historical memories William
Tell are appearing at the hearing, the interest grows and dispierta
is, the journey is short and pleasant.

  

  
  I remember with pleasure that in the same lake was fought illustrious
  Tell the thugs Gesler that led him to prison Lucerne after the
  tremendous punishment to which he condemned the tyrant forced him
to pull over the head of his son.

  
  
  Sites Tell everyone that walked meantime remained hidden; the chapel
where the founders of the Swiss rallied, all those fond memories are
reborn in the spirit of the traveler with all the strength and truth
of an event on Thursday.

  
  

  The mountain ranges that funny shaped amphitheaters around
  the lake, the sky is reflected in the waves the harmony of all
  speak to the soul.
  
  After two hours we were in Fluelen [20].
  
  At this last point, I ticket to Milan, and as Fluelen is on the same
foot of the Alps, on the side Gotthard, whose career was that I continued,
we started from the time to rise.

  
  
  The coach took us through a wonderful and superb road until
  a league Gotthard, convent, as San Bernardo, is located at the top
of the Alps.

  
  
  Just seeing it, can form a correct idea of ??what I have to refer:
  that has not made that way certainly.

  
  From Fluelen to the Hospital, we had to site care leave, to go the
  way later say, constantly climbed the endless slopes of these Hundreds
of mountains that put one above the other form what we call Alps.

  

  
  Thundering waterfalls and magnificent super descending rushing
  to the top of the Alps stormy rivers that run shouting among rocks,
  dotted with foam-white as silver; cliffs greater extent than can
be measured the human eye as the Devil's bridge, perfectly designated
by that name, below which the roaring powerful voice of his anger
the impetuosísimo Reuss, which breaks stones, with a roar, deep chasms
frightful mountains of snow thickness of twenty-three yards that threatens
collapse: this, together, shape the way from Fluelen to the Hospital.

  
  
  At this point we had to leave the coach, because snow, not limited
as before to cover the costs, filled the road.

  
  

  Six small wooden boxes, called sleds without wheels without
  cover, half a yard high, and the same widths, were responsible
  for receiving all who were coming in diligence. In each drawer
  we placed two passengers, other our luggage, and every drawer,
  pulled by a horse began to slip with that job cart swollen with snow.

  
  
  A right and left huge canvases of snow depth threatened frozen cover
  us at any moment: four men with axes lying along the way, were
  threading our way.
  
  Before I forget, I am going to record the effect of that vast
  whiteness dazzles, and can not stand: all men who work there
  are green glasses: we precision we always look to a fixed point,
  to clothes our black coats.
  

  Rolling with difficulty, with frightful precipices on the sides,
  uncomfortable in narrow crates, we reached the top of the
  Alps at an altitude of just seeing it is thought possible reach,
both had gone up.

  
  
  There on the top, stands the St. Gotthard, many times already covered
  by snow, and returned to rebuild, there are only two Monks: the
  house was almost completely covered with snow, was in June ....

In
  December one goes, even the birds. No voices enthusiastic
  enough to trumpet the greatness of Alps: the ocean as the Alps are
the idea of ??infinity, translate God, inspire recojimiento.

  Well there is my trip to Italy, which gave me so great emotion
  in the presence of their Alps!
  
  Once there was a need to lower course in the same vehicles, rolling
slowly and with great care, we down a narrow path above the road,
but with a background of thirty yards of snow.

 