 LXIII .-- How the King became Huayna Capac to send people to call, and how I went to Quito
240

CAP. LXIV .-- How Huayna Capac Bracamoros entered and turned to flee,
and what he did until he came to Quito 245

CAP.

LXV .-- From Huayna Capac how he walked through the valleys of Los Llanos, and what he did
249

CAP.

LXVI .-- Huayna Capac of how out of Quito, sent forward some of his captains, which turned
and fled from the enemy, and what about it made 252

CAP. LXVII .-- How, gathering all the power of Huayna Capac, gave battle to the enemy and won,
and the grand cruelty that used them 256

CAP. LXVIII .-- How the King Huayna Capac returned to Quito, and how the Spanish knew that walked
along the coast, and death 259

CAP. LXIX .-- The lineage and conditions of Huascar and Atahualpa 264

CAP. LXX .-- Of how he was taken by King Huascar in Cuzco, after his father died 266

CAP. LXXI .-- How he started the differences between Huascar and Atahualpa, and were among each
other great battles 270

CAP.

LXXII .-- About how Atahualpa of Quito came with his men and captains, and how he gave battle
Atoco to the towns of Ambato 273

CAP.

LXXIII .-- How the Huascar sent captains and again against his enemy,
and how Atahualpa arrived at Tomebamba, and there used great cruelty,
and what happened between him and 275 Guascar captains

NOTES

CHAPTER
III.

  

  

..............................

..............................

Dell's most of what I tell, is a delightful place full of vices and recreation, where all eat,
and drink and rejoice, and if the contrary has been bad, disobedient to their parents, enemy
of religion, going to another dark and gloomy.

In the first book I tried longer these substances [7], therefore,
going forward, tell of how the people of this orchestras kingdom before
the Incas or the blooms that are hiciesen sovereign lords, so that
all behetrias say they were without the order, and a great reason
and justice were after, and what to say Ticiviracocha, whom they called
and had by Maker of all things.

CAP.

Many times I asked to the inhabitants of these provinces so that they knew before hobo that
the Inca lords, and say that all lived wildly, and many were naked, made savage, without houses
or other dwellings which of the many caves that we have in large cliffs and crags, from which it came
to eating what they found by fields. Other castles were doing in the hills, called Pucara,
where, howler with strange languages, came out to fight each other over land, or by other causes,
and killed many of them, taking the spoils that were and the women of the vanquished; with all
of which were trunfando to the top of the hills, where they had their castles, and there they
made their sacrifices to the gods in whom they worshiped, before shedding stones and idols much
human blood and sheep. All were behetrias without order, because some gentlemen say they had
no more than captains who went out to war: if some were dressed, the clothes were small, and
not as now have them. The llaut and cords that come into their heads to be known about among others,
say they had as agora use them. And while these people in this way, rose in the province of Collao
a gallant gentleman called Zapana, which could therefore, that got under his dominion many
people of that province, and have otherwise, which if true or not know-it-the very high God understands
all things, because I do what I am telling you I have no other evidence books and the sayings
of these Indians, and what I have is, however some say, that after he got up in Hatuncollao
one captain, or tyrannical power in the province of Canas, midway between the quest Canches and
Collao, near the town called Chungara some wives were like brave men, that taking up arms, compelled
to the quest in the region, where they lived, and orchestras, almost to the use of what we
have of the Amazons, lived without [8] their husbands by people themselves, which, after have
lasted several years and made some made famous, came to contend with Zapana, which had been made Lord
of Hatuncollao, é to defend against their power, which was great, did forces and barricades,
now living, to defend themselves, and that after having done so as
ultimate power, were arrested and killed, and his name undone.

In Cuzco is a neighbor who has named Thomas Vasquez, who told me that doing it and Francisco
de Villacastin the people of Ayavire, seeing those fences and asking the Indians it was natural,
I told this story. We also have what I have eScript in the first part [9] on the island of
Titicaca, in past centuries a people hobo bearded, white like us, and leaving the valley of
Coquimbo, a captain who had named Carl, who is close to where now is Chucuito, where, after
having done some new populations, went with his people to the island, and gave such a war to
these people I say, that killed them all. Chirihuanas, Governor of those people, who are the
Emperor, told me what I have eScript, and as this land was so big, and partly as healthy and
accompanied to move human life, and estobiese inchido of people, but walked in their guerrilla
and passions, founded and made many people, and the captains who were shown to be courageous,
lords could stay for some people, and all second is public, had in their Indian strengths or stays the
connoisseurs, who spoke with the Devil, which, allowing it Almighty
God for what he knows, he had great power in these nations.

Before the Inca reigned in these realms and in them were known, these Indians have nothing much
greater than all that they say, because they say long questuvieron without seeing the sun,
and suffer great job with this fault, they made great vows and prayers them that they had gods,
asking that lacked the fire, and Questar Desta Fortunately, he left the island of Titicaca,
in quest of the great lake of Collao, the hot sun resplendent with all rejoiced [10]. And then
questo happened, say that towards the after midday came and remanesció a grown white man body,
which in appearance person and showed great authority and reverence, and queste man, who were well,
had so great power, that of the plains and hills to the plains to high mountains, by sources living
stones, and as such allowed, called him "the Maker of all things created, Top Dellas, Father Sun,
for without this, they say that to other things more, because gave to their men and animals,
and finally, they came into their own hands notable benefit. Y that such Indians have to what they
told me that they heard to their past, they also heard in the songs as they had very old, which
was long towards the north, making and working these wonders, by the way of the mountains, and never
did it again to see. In many places, he says, gave orders to men how they lived, and he spoke lovingly
and with great gentleness, admonishing them to be good and one another should not be made damage
or injury before, loving, all hobiese charity. Usually he was appointed to the fullest Ticiviracocha
part, although in the province of Collao Tuapaca call him, and elsewhere della Arnau [11]. They
were their temples in many parts made in bundles and put them stone to his likeness, and they
made sacrifices in front of them: the great quest in packages in Tiahuanacu [12], we have that
was from that time, and though of fame have in the past, have what I now say Ticiviracocha,
can not say the most, or that return to any part of this kingdom.

Without this, they say that, after some time, returned to see another man resembled the Quest
above, the name of which do not count, and heard to his past very certain, that where hobiese
wants it and sick, heal, and to the blind was just words view, for which work was so good and
profitable for all beloved, and in this way, working with your word great things, came to the
province of Canas, in which, together to a people who have Cacha by name, and that it has
instructed the Captain Bartolomé de Terrazas, inconsiderately rising natives were to him with a will
of stone, and shaping the work with her, I saw his knees, hands raised to heaven, as invoking
divine favor to be rid of the predicament in which they looked. They claim these Indians again,
then the sky seemed like a very large fire that burned all be thought; filled with great fear
and trembling, which were for and wanted to kill, and with great clamor begged him to deliver
that bind wanted it, knew the sin they had committed as well as wanting to be stoned, I leave that
punishment. Were after, sending the fire cease, went out, leaving the fire consumed and worn stones
in such a way that they themselves were doing to witness this happen has been eScript, because
they came burned and so light that even if it's grown is lifted by hand as cork. And on the
subject say again that out of there, went up to the seacoast, where, holding out his cloak,
went through his waves, and never saw it or paresció; and as he went, he was named Viracocha,
which means foam of the sea. And then questo passed, it became a temple in the town of Cacha,
past a river that goes along with him, West, where they placed a large stone idol in a toilet somewhat
narrow, and this toilet is not so large and bulky as the quest in remembrance of facts to Tiahuanaco
Ticiviracocha, neither seems to be in the form of clothing that they [13]. Some amount of gold
jewelry was found near him.

I through that province, went to see this idol [14], because the Spanish and published some say
could be an apostle, and even to many accounts he had heard that
in the hands, which is fun, if I had no eyes blind, because although
it looked much, I could see that not more than I had put his hands
on the hips, twisted arms, and signals at the waist and debri mean
that the clothes had caught fire with buttons.

If this or the other was one of the glorious Apostles at the time of his preaching came to
these parts, God Almighty knows that I do not know about it believe me more that, in my belief,
if an apostle, he should act with the power of his preaching God in these people, that are
simple and little malice and dello remnant, or in the Holy Scriptures as found written, but
what we see and understand is, that Satan had great power on these people, God permitting, and in
these places is made sacrifices in vain and heathen; where I think even our times the word
Gospel was not seen heard, in which we now completely desecrated their temples, and everywhere
the glorious Cross fantastic.

I asked the natives of Cacha, and its chief, or lord, a good person Indian and reason, Don
Juan, and Christian, and went in person to show me this antique, in remembrance of what God had done
that temple, and I replied that Ticiviracocha. And then try this name of Viracocha, I want
to disabuse the reader to believe that the people it is natural that they set the Spanish by name
Viracocha, that both approaches as sea ??foam, and as the name is
true, because it turns the name of butter, and car sea, and thus seems
to have come through it, I had attributed that name, which bad interpretation,
for the relationship that I took in Cuzco and give the pears, because
say then that in the province of Cajamarca Atahualpa was imprisoned
by the Spanish, having existed between the brothers Huascar Inca empire's
sole heir, and Atahualpa, large Wars and giving master of masters
against each other many battles, until the Apurimac river, by the
passage of Cotabamba, Huascar was the king prisoner and cruelly treated
Calicuchima, without which the Quizquiz in Cuzco did great harm and
killed, as published, thirty brothers Huascar and made other cruelties
that had his opinion and had not shown favorable to Atahualpa, and
as these passions riding hobiese as big as I say, been prisoner Atahualpa
and Pizarro agreed with him that would give a home for his ransom
of gold, and to traelle Martin were to Cuzco Well, Zarate and Moguer
[15], because most were in a solemn temple Curicancha, and as these
Christians arrived in Cuzco in times and situations that the share
of Huascar passed by the calamity that, and knew the imprisonment
of Atahualpa, rejoiced as much as it can mean, and so, of course,
with large supplications implored Atahuallpa his help against his
enemy, claiming to be sent by the hand of their great god Ticiviracocha,
and be his children, and so then they called and they named Viracocha.

And sent to high priest, and the other ministers of the temple is sacred, the women were in
it, and Quizquiz gave them all the gold and silver. And as the fluency of the Spanish has been so
much in so little have had the honor and honor these people, in return for the great hosting
plans they were doing and love with which the Serbs, corrupted some virgins and to them tuviéronlos
in short, that was the reason that the Indians, for this and see the little bow that had his
sun, and as shamelessly no fear of God nor violated [16] their virgins, they had by great sacrilege,
said then that such people were not children of God, but worse than Supais, which is the name
of Diablo, but to fulfill the mandate of Mr. Atahualpa, the captains and delegates cibdad the
dispenser without any anger they do, then sending treasure [17]. And the name of Viracocha stood
up today, which, according to I have said, I reported so I have put it eScript, and not by giving
foam significance of the sea. And both tell you what I understood the origin of the Incas.

CAP. VI .-- How the Tampu Pacárec remanecieron in certain men and women, and what we have they did
after they left there.

And other times I have said [18], how, by year of me and to flee the vices of idleness is Regrowth,
descrebir work took what I caught of the Incas and their regiment and good order of the Interior,
and as I have no relationship or that escriptura they give, if any atinare to this matter he could write
more successful than I could well, although for clarity of what I write I jumped at work, and to make
it more truly came to Cuzco, be it mayor Captain Juan de Saavedra [19], where I gather Cayua
Tupac, who is there live descendants of Huayna Capac, Tupac because Sairi son Manco Inca, is retired
in Viticos, where his father was absent after the war in Cuzco to the Spanish had, as later
tell [20] and to others in the apricots, which are those among them who are considered more noble,
and the best interpreters and languages I asked them were found, these gentlemen Incas what people
were and what nation. And it seems that Inca past, with great feat by enlarging its source in his
songs is what apregona that it have, that is, quests all the people who lived in these disordered
regions and killing one another, and being involved in his vices, a party remanecieron has named
Pacárec Tampu, tanks not far from the city of Cuzco, three men and three wives. And as can be interpreted,
Pacárec Tampu want to say as much home produced. The men say they went there one Ayar Uchu
and Ayar Cachi Asauca the other, and the other Ayar Manco call themselves: the women, one named
Mama had Huaco, the other Mama Cora, another Mama Rahua [21]. Aguná Indians have these names and
otherwise more numbers, but I have to what the apricots and they are so true to me again assembled
(Sic), because they know better than any others. And, they say it came out dressed in a blankets
and a long way to shirts without collar or sleeves, wool rich, with
many paintings of different ways, which they call tucapu, which in
our language means dresses of kings, and these gentlemen took a nickel
in his hand a deep gold, and she put a stone, and that the women came
dressed as richly as they took a lot of service and gold.

Moving ahead with this, say again, that took a long service gold and nickel a of the brothers,
who appointed Ayar Uchu, spoke with his brothers, to begin to the
great things they had to be made, because the presumption was so great
that be felt only lords of the earth, and by them was determined to
do at that place a new population, which they named Pacárec Tampu,
and there was a brief, because to do so had the help of the natives
of that region, and walking time, put large amount of pure gold and
jewels, other precious things in that part, of which there is much
fame dello hobo Hernando Pizarro and Diego de Almagro the waiter.
