 

These governors had great authority and power enough to raise armies and bring people together
war, if it Recresco Supit any embarrassment or uprising, or to come any strange people somewhere
to make war, and were before the Lord honored and privileged; and on this occasion remained,
when the Spanish came, many of them with perpetual control in the provinces. I know some of them and
be as aposesionados so that their children inherit what was in others.

When peacetime came the Incas to visit his kingdom, he would have that great majesty, sitting on rich
litter, mounted on sticks smooth, long, fine woods, engastonadas gold and Argentería, and
the litter came forth two high arches, made of gold, engastonados precious stones, and fell
somewhat long blankets for all the litter of Thus, that covered all, and if it was not wanting
that was inside, could not be seen, or blankets, but was lifted when it came and went, such
was his esteem. And for air gets in and he could see the road, the blankets had made some holes.
For all parts of these litters had wealth, and some were carved in the sun and moon some snakes
and other large OUNTY, and some as the crossed sticks, - this wore by insinia [63], for arms - and
these litters were worn on the shoulders of the older gentlemen and more major of the kingdom,
who walked over them, that it had more honest and most favored.

In meters around the litter and went spinning to the king's guard with archers and spearmen, and before
were five thousand slingers, and came back as many spears, with their captains, and the sides
of the road and on the same road, runners would discover what was true and announcing the
departure of the Lord, and went so many people see that it seemed that all the hills and slopes
were full della, and all gave their blessings raising great cries and screams his style, calling
them "Wide hatun apu, intipchuri, canqui zapallaapu tucuy ccamp pacha uyay sullull [64], which
in our language says: "Very large and powerful Lord, son of the sun, thou only art the Lord,
everybody loves oya in truth. "And they said other things this will higher; So little was needed
to worship him by God.

All the way Indians were cleaned, so that no stone or grass or parescia but everything clean
and swept. He walked four miles every day, or what he wanted, which was stopped served, to understand
the state of his kingdom, happily heard the complaints that come to him, remedying and punishing
those who were doing injustice. Those who were with them, not lawless nothing to step off the
road. The natives provided as necessary, without which it had so honored for deposits, which had
left, and nothing was missing. Where was I, emerged Many both men and women and boys to serve
them personally as it was commanded and carry loads, they carried a village to another, where
one of taking, and the others left, and being a day, and at most two, not sorry, nor dello engaged
or no offense. For doing the Lord in this way, walking through his land as long as it pleased,
seeing through their eyes what had happened, and providing what he understood was proper, that
every was great and important things, which actually turned around to Cuzco, principal city
throughout his empire.

CAP