 Fortunately
have not yet jaws in all our mouths have not tied all our hands can still raise an arm to point
out, still have breath in our hearts to say "that." They are among us, I know. This great
revolution has not arrived to its August peak, has not reached the highest point of justice: it
has been until now a step only the first step. Do we stop timidly afraid of our own work? No:
we are in a horrible middle: half of this path of thorns is the greatest of dangers. Stop at
this half is falling, it's worse to go back, it's worse than not having begun. There to choose between
the two extremes: either move on, or curse the hour that we were born. (Loud and boisterous applause.)

Lazarus
noted, while uttering these paragraphs, that among the thousands of audience figures, and there
in the dark of a corner, had a face whose eyes shone the enthusiasm
and anxiety.

The thin, bony hands of one person clapping, sounding like two stones concave. He looked steadily
as he spoke, and he found them not very possessed his business and very strong in its position
on the audience, would have disturbed beyond repair, farewell to the speech. The person so I watched
and applauded him was his uncle. What was incomprehensible, and the young man had given much
thought to such a thing, if loving and fiery statements that did not distract the subject was
long after completion his speech.

Another spoke after him, and finally, after many speeches, the crowd started to march. Cabanillas
Alfonso and went into the street, carried by large groups that broke
down the mass of people.

Was agitated that night around Madrid, and is positive that the authority usually quite messy
and weak, took some precautions. In the remaining Fontana At dawn the Doctrino, Pinilla, Lobo,
Lazarus and others.

- Well you have done! - I said .-- The Lazarus Doctrino what I expected.

Tonight our party acquires the word you with a terrible force. Don Elijah, you can be proud of his
nephew.

- Yes I am - Coletilla said smiling as the manner of the jackals and foxes, whom Nature has been a
contraction in the face evil .-- Yes, I am: I did not think this guy was so clever that, to
know, since I had done everything possible to that ....

Lazarus began to see dark at this intrusion of his uncle in the sessions of the exalted. Crossed
her mind a suspicion horrible. When he went to the house he remembered the charge that on the
night of his expulsion he had directed in the same place; recalled dialogue with his uncle
had been in prison, recalled every word, expression the more blind fanaticism, and the more
I pondered and remembered, unless your uncle could be explained allowed to be called great liberal.
Although some vague suspicions tormented him, no saw the great divide in all its horror and
depth, not presaged the movement to which he had given impetus to his word, and did not include
the trick dark, bloody collision of Fontana heads of the dazed and troubled minds of some youngsters,
had his gun more terrible.

But on arriving at the house expecting a surprise that Lazarus had to make him forget his speech,
his uncle and to the Trevi Fountain. As you enter, and close the day, he met Dona Paz very
agitated, Salome around the house with light, and at two very angry and intemperate, they could
not help to laugh in spite of his state of mind.

- Thank God it
is you!

We are alone - he said shaking the oldest.

- What is it, ladies?

- Fear that someone will enter through these roofs.

- How, who is going to dare?

- Do not you know what happened, gentleman? - .-- That Clarita Paz
said .... What horror, what perversion!

...

- How soon is the scaffold? - Salome said .-- A man, a man entered
here this girl, a seductive!

And we so blind that we collected!

- Oh, my God! What a horrible attack!

- And when did this man? "- Asked, realizing that they had discovered the entrance Bozmediano.

- On Sunday, that evening we were in the procession.

- And she, where
is it? - Asked the young man, believing that it was time to clarify
that case.

- How horrible!

And you wonder where is he?

We've thrown, we have driven them - Peace said, venganzasatisfecha
with expression of consent .-- Had we such a monster here?

- What
degradation!

And in this house! - Salome said, putting both hands over his face .-- Lord What atonement
is this?

What sin have we committed?

- Where is?

- What is where? What do I know? We've thrown.

- But where has it gone?

- What do I know? Go into the street, where always have been. Oh! She will be gone very happy
there.

- If such people are born on the street - said Salome, with a gesture
of disgust .-- What a shame!

- "But you have thrown this ...?

Where the poor thing has to go? - Asked Lazarus, who, in spite of
his grievance, he could not see it easy to insult and maltreatment
in that way to be helpless.

- How do I know where he went?

To hell! - Maria de la Paz said, laughing.

- Lord, is it possible
that so much outrage in the world?

Oh! ...-- Day ideas murmured Salome, raising his hands to heaven in declamatory attitude.

Before that he did Lazarus to meet so great a novelty, what count spent that night at the home of the
three ladies. Tagline saying it was out back to within three days, having to deal out a certain
matter, and they were discussing this rare determination, where an event happened which made
for the definitive expulsion of the orphan.

CHAPTER XXXV

# The bonnet of the Nuncio. #

Clerical tailoring was very handy and flourishing industry in the last century. There were many
clergy, and also a large crop in despair, people all wearing neatly and coquetry. The that this
industry is devoted to obtained large profits, and this was due to be dedicated to exploit many
artisans of both sexes, educated at first in tailoring profane.

In this century the industry in question was very listless, do not know if it was clergy or less
because there were more tailors. On the fifth floor of the house of Roque T칩came located on the
streets of Bethlehem, had its nest two sisters, sastras sacred clothes, which had been very
much at least. In his youth had sewn many cloak and surplices to canons Toledo and the priests of
the court, but at the time of our history, for reasons appropriate social record is not only
enshrined his miserable existence to mend Piarist some dark green greatcoat or some poor and
shabby curate. Made figs pears to a cap for a palace chaplain or to the prosecutor of the Rota,
and nothing more. They were very poor, but bear with patience the misfortune without uttering
a complaint. Only one of them said from time to time with a sigh, while stirring the few rags
His holy black industry: "There is no religion."

They had another friend that Abbe Don Gil Carrascosa, which, as it
has come to our notice, had in his time bickering with some of them.

The visits, were provided some work and used to give a get-together, telling them things Madrid. But
if Remolinos (that was his name) had no more than a friend, however they had an enemy ruthless, bloodthirsty,
ferocious. This enemy was another seamstress, who lived through wall and that the natural divergence
of views among those involved to the same industry had declared war to the death. To torment,
in addition to their insults and nicknames, had a cat, which we believe was born specifically
to be entered in the room with two sisters and do there few inconveniences
can cause the cat to an enemy.

Donna also had the Rosalia trade lover, who visited her every night, accompanied by a guitar
and it was this lover a commission be created through hell to sing and play all night in that
house and not let sleep at two sacred clothing tailors.

Do침a Rosalia had more work than its neighbors those swirls (or the swirls, as generally called), and
also did what a woman can do to remove them jealous rivals the little
they had.

It happened that a page of the Papal, old parishioner Dona Rosalia and very good color fan,
dared to aspire to not know that honest trusts; Lady peaks, peaks the page, and the next day,
bringing the bonnet of the Nuncio to you have a darn, instead of giving Dona Rosalia handed it to the
two sisters.

When Dona Rosalia knew the bonnet of the Nunciature was in the hands of rivals, we seemed that
he had received the largest offense: broke relations with the Roman Curia, said thousand insults
the page, charged to your cat some dirty commission nearly two neighboring (Commission that met
with great punctuality animal), came to the door of the two unhappy and told them a thousand
wonderful things, they did utter to the older of the two in his lament customary: "There is no
religion."

But Rosalia sought a terrible revenge. How? I would greatly amazed to see enter the abbe an
unknown military. The house was arranged so that, approaching the door As heard in the rooms, there
is talk.

We all know the purpose of the visit Bozmediano to the swirl. Do침a Rosalia guessed it too,
when, standing in wait, saw him pass to the next house through a
door leading into the attic convicted former.

He stopped and waited.

He realized that there was the sly affair, and knew that finding
a happy medium for revenge.

Saw Bozmediano come and go, and figuring that this fraudulent entry
be repeated, wait a repeat, to go immediately, and while the youth
was within, adjacent to the house to report it.

The young man would be caught, there would be a scandal, investigations would be made, where to
declare it would come, and catatonic to the Swirling way to jail
as punishment for his complicity in that crime escalation and breach
of trust.

Waited a day, two, three, until seeing that the scene is not repeated,
resolved at its high discretion to report it at once to the family
concerned, lest slowing, could be doubted.

Thought and deed. Stood a shawl, came down, entered the house of the Porrenos, touched, they opened,
and faced with the majestic face of Our Lady of Peace Jesus, that
in a bad mood asked

- What do you want?

- Came to see the master
of this house to tell you one thing - entering said Rosalie.

- What
disrespect! - Thought Lady of Peace, enter rond칩n seeing .-- Salome,
a light.

Dusk, and the dark lady could not see clearly the face of the visit. Salome brought a lamp into
the room where the two presented themselves.

- What is offered to you? - Asked Paz, measuring with a look at the body of Dona Rosalia.

- Who is the master of this house?

- I am - a little alarmed Paz said the mystery that seemed to wrap
this unexpected visit.

- Well, I come to tell it to you ... Do not
you know what happens?

- What? - Salome said, believing that sank
the ceiling.

- Do not be frightened, ma'am, because after all, knowing
it, you can prevent back to happen.

- By God, explain to you, madam
- Peace said in a tone of impatience and superiority.

- As you must
know - said Dona Rosalia mystery, - that this house ... Well ... les
I will say to you: I live in the house next door on the fourth floor,
and I am a seamstress, with apologies you, and I sew all the clothes
from the house of Mr. Nuncio of the Pope and the Patriarch of the
Indies to sew all the archbishopric of Toledo, and sometimes I sew
to the chapel of the palace.

This relationship of the upper echelons needle serving Dona Rosalia, gave some importance the
eyes of Our Lady of Peace Jesus.

- I live up there and I've seen ... But you have not fallen into it?

- What?

- For the man who has come here.

- What man?

What say? - Exclaimed to a two ruins in the tone of one who feels
pop a volcano.

- Well, I came to warn you to avoid that happen again.

Is the case in the attic of the house where I live there is a small
door facing the attic of this house.

The face you put the Porrenos not fit into any description.

- Yes - continued sastra - and a young soldier went through that door one afternoon that I speak;
got here ... I malice, when he saw a young lady spoken here.

- But,
madame - Peace said, standing up - are you sure what it says?

A man come here ... here in this house!

- Yes, Madam, I have observed. She slipped in through the room of a nearby ... friends of mine.
I I've seen.

- When?

Salome said taking a breath, because he lacked the breath.

- On Sunday afternoon.

- What time?

- At about five o'clock.

- When we were in the procession! What a scandal!

That girl shameless ... that little boy .... Well I thought so myself
- Paz said, her hands placed on his head and paced the room like a
maniac.

- Ay! no good at these things ... I decompose! - Salome stammered,
leaning over the couch with samples experiencing a dizzy spell.

-
But, ladies, do not be alarmed you - Mrs. Rosalie said, trying to
soothe the ladies .-- Do you a daughter?

- No, Madam, we have no
daughter - responded with great anger Lady of Peace - is a girl, a
crazy compassion admit here, waiting to be corrected, but ... I thought
so myself.

What a gem! See what I said? My God, why admit here to such a slut?

- Lady - Salome said, clutching his stomach and remaking of their
faint .-- Tell you you clarify that.

Ay! It's too horrible.

We are not accustomed to these things, and such facts confuse us,
and I, especially, I can not bear ....

- I do not doubt you.

The young man broke into the house on Sunday afternoon, and was here an hour. Find it out yourselves
and see how true.

- If it sounds incredible - Peace said, sitting down again. This house, this honorable house
... And how there is that door? How is it possible ...?

- There is a very old, only that it was doomed. If you want to see it can go up to the attic, and
looking good, will find it.

- But he, that monster, where do you could get?

- The so-door - continued Dona Rosalia - gives the room a few seamstresses friends of mine. The
poor things not only to sew sacristanes and village priests and sew wrong. They want to put on
airs, and say stitching to the cathedral of Segovia, but is a lie. Do not believe you.

- And he, entered the room?

- Yes: it is a military man, tall, handsome.

- Jesus, how awful! I can not hear it - cried Salome, stretching, with samples of a second attack.
I gave money to these women - continued Dona Rosalia - because they are very poor: they gain nothing.
As they do so badly ... Do not sew more than the curate of St. Martin.

- You must make a determination, peace, a prompt determination - Salome said returning itself
.-- Because if not, the honor of the house is committed .-- Lady - she added, turning to Dona
Rosalia - do not miss you this sorrow, we are not accustomed to shocks
of this kind.

We, by our birth, our education and our religion, we have always above all these miseries. Ay!
we have taken the blame for our over- charity. Just imagine that
we welcomed without fear to a snake in our house, although we reports
of his bad behavior, the belief that we welcomed amend. But you see
what so evil souls! What society! What a century! Well I thought so
myself, in spite of what he said my niece, who is a saint, and he
insisted, guided by his good heart, that girl was going to correct.
How can correct such a monster? What a shame, what contempt! Ay! I'm
no good for these cases, I get confused, I break down and I can not
make any determination.

- Yes, we must make a decision - said with
great bitterness Lady of Peace .-- If not, what going to be for the
honor of our house? Must be put immediately to the front door to the
girl, without consulting Don Elias. He has to approve it, and above
all, if not approval. Did not have dared to say this morning that
his nephew be amended? If you are a looking some horrors! ... What
century do customs! Until ...!

- Do what you want, Peace - Salome
said, affecting a certain gentleness and prostration, she think very
prettily in his nervous body .-- Do what you want, regardless of what
may opinion that Mr. Butler, he has nothing to instruct here. Goodbye
to that girl, that go with his kind. Oh! I do not remember what this
woman has had.

Even the dog that did not bark, the melancholy Batilo,
was appalled. He had planted Dona Rosalia front, and looked, with
the concerned attention of a dog, good color seamstress who had brought
desolation to the house.

- Lady - Peace said with a little courtesy
- we thank you with notice given to us, showing, naturally, his zeal
and interest for the honor of our house