 Leaning against the side walls to the street, sat on a swing feet on the rung of the chair
before him, a young Mary Rule it seemed white. This color was her dress, but the black cambric
handkerchief belting his turning neck on the copious black hair braids crowning fact the well-modeled
head black shoes the golden carriage that held her little feet high tops and arched bridge, the
beautiful stranger wearing mourning in the body and heart, as the deep sadness that we announce
both his face and attitude. For garments clothes that looked at the floor in the back of the
chair and in the same lap, she started see stitching, of whose work did not look up but at
times your partner, which treated the same way, opened the front door and helped to lay in the
doorway the board's heavy selling.

In order to fix the witch of the mourning picture in the living memory
of Mary of Regla could not be more appropriate occasion, and so it
was, then repeated in a whisper, step behind its protective: - The
girl Adela!

Adela girl!, Beyond comparison in its mind the face of it with the youngest of his love.

As the butcher hear the refrain, said in a tone of repression:

- Ah! That nine no Nama Adel, Sesil Nama.

Better to keep quiet, she thought the rule and said no word, but stood his ground, for As he
continued to believe that singular resemblance between the girl and the mourning of the house
across the street from the firehouse, whose description saved for
the first opportunity.

Even the two p.m. walked the black wandering the city streets and in the part time butcher achieved
silver reducing the effects had on the board. For popularly called the gate of the Wall, came
to Alameda and sat on a seat stone, protected by a leafy tree, between
the old café in Athens and the statue Carlos III.

A dirty canvas bag whose mouth was collected with a string, and wore Genoveva within, removed and
counted to twelve dollars in Seville ESP, and means royal silver
of which, net of seven, more or less cost of goods traded, played
down a net gain of five dollars