When we informed you of this, by taking the initiative for a report on questions relating to IASCF governance, you rushed off to officiate, with your Japanese and American colleagues and with IOSCO, by preparing a press release on 7 November 2007 in which you claimed to be arbitrating in all the problems of governance, rather than awaiting the opportunity to be able to act on the legitimacy and authority of a position taken by the democratic representation of the European Union, or to spell it out the European Parliament.
When, on the strength of the April proposals, you had the momentum and the opportunity to officiate on what could have been the European Union's position on the international stage, and to do so on the basis of paragraph 9 of this resolution, which I now read: 'notes that in the abovementioned combined statement of 7 November 2007 the Commission seeks - as it did when it concluded a roadmap with the US authorities in April 2006 - to preempt solutions where it would be preferable, in the interests of effectiveness and legitimacy, to have an open consultation process and debate, to which this resolution could be a contribution', you preferred, in the secrecy of your private cabinets and departmental offices, to devise a solution without consulting either the Council or this Parliament.
Commissioner, what have you been doing since 24 April, when we voted on this resolution?
The argument as to the number is irrelevant since, at the same time, there is a further proposal to increase the number of members on the International Accounting Standards Board itself, thereby taking it from 14 to 16.
Again, I am grateful to this House for having emphasised the importance of prudential supervision and financial stability in its resolution of 24 April.
I appeal to the European Parliament to support our proposals as the best way to ensure that this reform achieves real influence.
I would like to suggest that I do not see that adding the IMF and the World Bank to this monitoring group would make it that unwieldy.
So we are availing ourselves of that opportunity to make our submission.
I only learned today that my services have not been in constant contact with relevant Members here in the European Parliament in the past month or so.
This was news to me, because I thought my officials would have been keeping contact the whole time with the people here who take an interest in this particular subject, but I find out today that did not occur.
I would just make that particular comment in passing, because there are people among the IASB trustees who are not too anxious to accommodate some of the more far-reaching governance arrangements that we are proposing for them.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 25 September 2008.
