Resumption of the session I hereby declare resumed the session adjourned on Thursday, 7 February 2002.
The European Parliament unreservedly condemns such attacks on innocent civilians and interference in this way in an electoral process.
The European Parliament regrets all the more the breakdown in the peace process negotiations and the recent resumption of hostilities and calls on the parties concerned to resume their search for a democratic and negotiated settlement for peace in Colombia.
We also believe, in the interests of holding a good debate, in order for our parliamentary democracy and the essential procedure of parliamentary immunity to function properly, in order for us all to be able to give our honest opinion, having had the opportunity to examine all the documents and in order that we do not give poorly informed opinions, that it would have been better to place the two reports on the agenda of the Strasbourg part-session.
Mr President, this change to the agenda was not taken into account when you made your proposal.
I will deal first with the Commission's political priorities for 2003, then with the Commission's human and financial resources and, lastly, with the Convention which is going to start work tomorrow.
First, then, the Commission's political priorities for 2003, which will be one of the most important stages in the organisation of our political life.
This year, for the first time, the three main institutions will conduct an in-depth dialogue on the political priorities and the legislative working programme for the coming year.
We shall do so on the basis of the new understanding presented at the Conference of Presidents on 31 January.
For next year, we have identified three priorities: enlargement, stability and security and a sustainable and inclusive economy.
This will be the most significant enlargement in the entire history of European integration, and it is essential that we reflect on what common policies the enlarged Union will need.
However, if enlargement is to be a total success, we must also give a high profile to the other two priorities I mentioned just now.
Indeed, the three subjects we are talking about today are closely linked.
Therefore, the fight against crime in all its forms - including terrorism, or rather, starting with terrorism - is and will remain at the top of our agenda.
To achieve this, we need to strengthen our partnerships with neighbouring countries.
In particular, on the economic front, we shall seek to develop joint projects and initiatives together with the countries on the Mediterranean's southern shore through a new financial institution based on the EIB's operation - notably, this morning, we approved the idea that it should be an institution in which the EIB holds the majority share - on the basis of the guidelines the Commission has, indeed, adopted.
Furthermore, we shall spare no efforts in seeking to help resolve the conflict in the Middle East, where the most recent developments have, at last, generated a glimmer of hope after months of tragedy.
Our third priority for 2003 is a sustainable, inclusive economy.
The situation is certainly not the most encouraging, there is certainly no cause for optimism in our - at last serious - commitment to the Developing World, but the Commission undertakes to work in this sphere.
This request for 500 non-permanent staff in 2003 forms part of a global package of staffing needs to cope with enlargement, and it is derived from a detailed analysis of all the activities the Commission will have to perform in future.
The complete results of this analysis will appear in the preliminary draft budget for 2003 and will be presented for debate in this House.
Our other two priorities - security and an inclusive economy - give the Commission additional responsibilities too.
Last year's international developments, and especially the events of 11 September and the ensuing war in Afghanistan, showed once again that the Union needs specific mechanisms for making the extra funds it needs for crisis intervention swiftly available.
The breakdown in Heading 4 that the Commission proposes therefore accommodates crucial political priorities such as Afghanistan, the Euro-Mediterranean Bank and the Global Health Fund, without jeopardising our other fields of external action.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, focusing on the Commission's political priorities for 2003 must not make us forget that we are on the threshold of a genuinely historic event that will shape the future of Europe.
Indeed, tomorrow, in this building, the Convention mandated to put forward proposals for the Europe of the twenty-first century and to prepare a first draft of Europe's future Constitution will meet for the very first time.
The governments are still sovereign, of course, but the work of this Convention will have a huge impact on the future of Europe.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission intends to play an active role in the Convention's work via the two designated Commissioners and my own direct, personal undertaking.
It is the only practical attempt at democratic globalisation amongst the seas of words.
Mr President of the Commission, we can of course go along with everything that you have said.
Our debate on the strategy for next year is planned for 20 March.
We have seen increasing dissatisfaction on the part of the southern Mediterranean countries in recent years, caused by our favouring the east - as they put it, in clear, direct terms.
I explained that, in effect, we had been compelled by history to undertake this enlargement immediately but that I was committed to setting up a strategy for the south as soon as possible.
A bona fide bank will have greater autonomy, a greater capacity to intervene in the private sector and greater flexibility, and, most importantly, it will be in a better position to perform an education role, to get the leaders of the countries of the southern Mediterranean to work together with our people.
Specifically, you have asked us to support you in relation to having more civil servants and more resources in order to deal with enlargement.
I would remind you that Parliament already indicated in Agenda 2000 that enlargement could not take place without amending the forecasts for 2000.
But, in any event, it is important that the Council should also hear this message from the Commission.
We must be totally responsible in our use of it, and that is our aim. ...
Amongst other things, we are working together with the European Parliament in an interinstitutional group on precisely these matters.
Clearly, we are all involved in a battle in which most of us are displaying solidarity - liberalising the markets, standardising rules, streamlining systems, eliminating monopolies, abolishing privileges, which are certainly very important operations - but, and here I share Mr Modrow' s concern, we are also faced with a situation in essentially all the European countries of increased disparities.
We must move forwards in this direction, but I would stress that the carelessness with which all of us in Europe are currently treating these major issues of solidarity and social balance is unacceptable.
Mr President, enlargement presents us with really interesting tasks.
We have presented a document on enlargement in which we remain within the constraints of the Berlin agenda.
If the successful outcome is actually achieved, with a political process leading to Cyprus's accession to the EU in 2004, this will mean that we will have to make preparatory funds available in 2003.
The Council has decided, within the framework of the common foreign and security policy, to send a police task force into Bosnia from 1 January 2003 onwards, and this too will make demands on the European budget.
Mr Mulder, we had the opportunity to talk about this yesterday.
I welcome the way the Barcelona process is being made deeper and given a more definite form.
I would again like a definite answer about something I cannot comprehend, namely why you decided against this facility, which, in this year alone, could demonstrate with what commitment we are working on a pro-active Mediterranean policy, whereas - as we learned from our experience with the foundation of the 'Bank for Eastern Europe' - a bank or its subsidiary needs a longer period of time even to become operational, and is much more expensive in terms of personnel and budget allocations.
It is open to the countries of the southern Mediterranean, but we have not addressed the specific issues because they will be dealt with in a political debate with the Council, nor the future debate with the third countries.
We are not familiar with the first four, and I would therefore ask our own President to ensure that, in future, we are given all the documents as soon as they arrive in Parliament.
I feel that the most important thing is what the Union will do in the future, what role it will play in the globalised world and, therefore, what tasks have to be performed at Community level for these objectives to be achieved.
Can I just remind colleagues that this communication offered a possibility for the first time here today to hear the general strategy of the Commission.
However, in the nature of the case, I can have no view and Parliament should take no view about these points.
The present request for waiver of immunity, therefore, does not concern the issue whether these prosecutions may or should continue in accordance with French law.
Under Article 10 of the Protocol of 1965, there is no relevant immunity, either for a deputy of the French National Assembly or, therefore, for a French MEP in the face of prosecution on charges of this kind.
The issue of immunity and the request for waiver relates only to the issue of whether the Court may issue binding orders restricting the MEPs' freedom of movement, or their freedom in making contact with other persons.
I would draw to the attention of all colleagues that if there are freedoms which are vitally important to the exercise of public representative office, especially in a Parliament of this kind, freedom to communicate with other citizens and the citizens of other countries, and freedom to move as one chooses, is critically important, as part of doing the job.
In its present form, the request for waiver of immunity seems unacceptably precise and indeed the documents of the case seem to indicate that no attention has been paid to the recommendation for the request of waiver to be taken forward only on the basis of a more specific statement, concerning places and persons involved.
Article 9 of the Protocol, as President Fontaine sharply reminded the prosecutor, makes us entirely free from any legal proceeding whatever in any expression of opinion of vote cast in performance of our duties as Members of this Parliament.
Mr President, I will not be availing myself of my two minutes.
Mr President, I would like, if I may, to make some comments that have been inspired by this report.
I think that this debate must be held especially since the general public does not understand the issue and that the charges are particularly serious and particularly significant.
My final comment is that the Europe of human rights is obviously not yet in place, that there is no habeas corpus in France, although a great deal of progress has been made, particularly as a result of the support given by Mr Jospin' s government to the issue of the presumption of innocence.
Nevertheless, with 125 suicides committed each year in prison, France may have abolished the death penalty but it has not yet eliminated it altogether.
However, there are two points which I would like to make in particular with regard to these requests.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11 a.m.
I appeared before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on 7 January, and it is a pleasure for me to be able to present the economic and financial priorities for the six months of the Spanish Presidency, particularly in relation to the Barcelona Summit.
Since 7 January, when I appeared before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, there have been significant advances on certain aspects, such as the agreements between Parliament, the Commission and the Council, in relation to the harmonisation of financial services.
On behalf of the Presidency-in-Office, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups for the efforts they have made, especially the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to reach an agreement in this area.
In this respect, European society owes a debt of gratitude to all those workers and professionals who have contributed to the consumers and families having been able to enter the era of the euro so easily.
I believe it is also important to point out, as I did in the meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on 7 January, that the introduction of the euro must be understood as a response, not only of acceptance of the single currency, but also a positive response from the citizens to the processes of European integration and also the processes of economic reform and change.
And, in this regard, I believe that the slogan of the Spanish Presidency, 'more Europe' , is perfectly compatible with the spirit of those millions of European citizens who have accepted from the outset the existence of a single and common currency for us all, or at least for the eurozone.
I believe that, regardless of the speed of the response from the European authorities on some occasions, as in the case of the events of 11 September, what is beyond question from the point of view of economic growth, and given the good macroeconomic foundations of the euro economy, from the point of view of both budgetary stability, which I will refer to later, and from the point of view of inflationary pressures, the Presidency believes that the potential for growth is the key to recovering the confidence of the European citizens in sustainable and stable growth throughout the region.
In this regard, it will be the potential for growth in the medium and long term which will lead to an increase in employment and near full employment in the European Union, as indicated in the Bullmann report which is going to be discussed during this same sitting in relation to the spring European Council, that is, the Barcelona Council, together with the Karas report on the economic situation following the attacks of 11 September.
Mr President, I will comment on two points in particular: coordination of economic policy and structural reforms.
In relation to the coordination of economic policy, there is no doubt that the consolidation of the internal market and greater integration and interdependence amongst the economies of all the Member States points to the need for greater coordination of economic policies throughout the region and particularly in the eurozone.
As demonstrated by the experience of the countries which have made most progress in the liberalisation timetables, these measures must be compatible with greater quality of service and with security of supply, in accordance with the public service nature of electricity supply in all the countries.
Nevertheless, liberalisation must also be accompanied by homogenous instruments for measuring the openness of markets in all the countries of the region and also transparent rules on access to transport networks which ensure the existence of genuine competitiveness for third countries that want to participate in a liberalised domestic market.
I will now refer to the financial markets, Mr President.
The completion of the process ...
With regard to the reform of the capitals and financial services markets, the Presidency believes that completing the process of integrating the European financial system is a fundamental challenge within the general objectives of the Presidency.
These are, no doubt, ambitious aims, Mr President, which cannot be achieved - and I believe all the European institutions have understood this - without a more rapid and flexible legislative procedure that meets the needs of markets as dynamic as the financial markets, which, furthermore, are fully globalised markets, as we all know.
The directive on market abuse is essential - as Parliament knows - to guaranteeing the rules of conduct which investment services companies are subject to and which guarantee the protection of all investors on a European level.
Lastly, Mr President, I would like to comment on the reform of the European labour market as a priority of the Barcelona Council.
There is no doubt that the development of employment in Europe has been satisfactory but not sufficient, as demonstrated by the fact that, at the highest points of the cycle, the European economy maintains structural rates of unemployment, notably greater than those of other regions such as the United States.
And furthermore there is no doubt that the labour market' s capacity to adapt to evolutions in the economic cycle ensures quicker recovery of the economies and, therefore, more intense recoveries of employment at times of sustained growth or at the high points in the cycle.
All these issues relating to the labour market must inspire the review of the Luxembourg process and give impetus to the adoption of the necessary structural reforms of the labour markets in each of the countries of the European Union.
I would like to make the following comments in relation to the incorporation of the sustainable development strategy at the Barcelona European Council: In accordance with what was agreed at the United Nations Assembly in Rio in 1997, the Gothenburg European Council added a third environmental dimension to the process of economic reform, as I have said, and in accordance with these conclusions, the Council took note of the need to draw up a 'road map' of an annual nature, with the measures to be taken in the environmental field, within the strategy of sustainable development, and to be taken into account by the Presidency of the Council, in collaboration with the Commission.
The Laeken European Council welcomed the choice of environmental indicators, for the monitoring of the implementation of the sustainable development strategy, and also welcomed the progress made in relation to the European ratification of the Kyoto Protocol.
Using the environmental indicators which I have just referred to, which were approved at the Laeken Council on 17 January 2002, a first synthesis report has been presented assessing the process carried out.
The Barcelona conclusions, together with the Commission' s communication, must allow the Seville European Council at the end of the Spanish Presidency, on 25 and 26 June, to prepare the European Union' s position for the summit on sustainable development which will take place in Johannesburg in September 2002.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention the framework for the development of entrepreneurs in Europe, which is another concern that various Councils have demonstrated, and which will be taken into account in Barcelona, especially in relation to the development of a suitable framework for small businesses and new entrepreneurs in Europe.
Firstly, the commitment to hold informal Councils on small and medium-sized businesses, before the structural reform summits in the spring, which can communicate specific recommendations to the spring summits in relation to a sector which represents more than 90% of European companies and a considerable proportion of employment in our countries.
Secondly, specifically in relation to the Barcelona Summit, the Aranjuez meeting believes that member countries and the Commission must be informed of the need to favour the development framework for European small and medium-sized businesses by means of two methods: firstly, by reducing time limits and administrative costs through the use of new legal instruments which are easier for entrepreneurs to implement and secondly, by using telematic means, and at this first stage of a quicker and less expensive framework in terms of time and costs, to make a detailed analysis of how each of the legislative measures taken affects small and medium-sized businesses.
Therefore, legislators and governments must think firstly on a small scale, bearing in mind the effects their legislation and regulatory measures may have on small and medium-sized businesses, and they must do so while taking account of the contacts made with the business organisations for small and medium-sized businesses.
It is a question of introducing a genuine partnership into the formula for pursuing the economic and social development of these countries.
This must focus not only on works and infrastructure, but also on the creation of a genuine fabric of industries and private businesses, a genuine economic civil society in the countries of the south of the Mediterranean.
I would like to end my speech, Mr President, by thanking the European Parliament for being kind enough to allow the Presidency to participate in this sitting, during which I believe we will not only be able to explain the Presidency' s positions, but also reply to the questions and initiatives which the different parliamentary groups and Members may raise on structural reform in Europe and on the priorities of the Spanish Presidency.
The euro has been a great success, it has been welcomed with great enthusiasm and now we must push ahead with related tasks, including the completion of the Lisbon process.
This decisive stage which we will be undertaking at Barcelona will take place in a totally different economic climate, for the optimism of Lisbon is no longer present, but the global economic slowdown makes it even more necessary that we complete this strategy.
Barcelona will therefore be a milestone along that road.
Of course, there are also many areas of concern: the citizens are wondering whether Europe will have the courage to adopt these measures which are necessary for long-term development, whether it will have the courage to take further steps towards the goal of a more competitive, inclusive society.
When I have conversations with citizens and businesses, I hear them expressing grave concerns, for they do not yet see the tangible effects even of the decisions we have already taken, and this is understandable in that we have completed the initial phase of these political decisions but the work is not yet finished.
And it is precisely the Council which will have to set the priorities in these matters.
Thirdly, the Barcelona strategy must contain a response to the present economic situation and an assessment of the progress made by the different countries in implementing their various policies, so that we can see which priorities need to be focused on in the coming 12 months.
The fourth objective for Barcelona is to take stock of the progress made in the area of sustainable development.
I will end by touching on another subject which will be addressed indirectly but quite extensively at Barcelona, and that is how we should organise our work in the light of the impending enlargement.
Indeed, we must launch a dialogue with the candidate countries to identify what they themselves can do to pursue the Lisbon agenda and priorities - with help from the Community, of course.
They must therefore be actively involved in the Lisbon objectives and working methods.
I believe that we should, in our economic policy as a whole, give much more attention to small and medium-sized enterprises.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission and the majority of the female representation of the Commission, whose presence we should welcome, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the Council began his report with the success of the introduction of the euro, which is a success for our peoples, and which has exceeded any expectations we may have had in any of the European institutions.
Now, the problem facing us is that the success of the euro demands a response which can only take one form: an active economic policy in Europe.
In this respect, the review relating to the economic evolution of the Member States shows that some, politically, have been hunted hunters.
They created a Stability and Growth Pact in order to monitor others and, in the end, they have had to apply the lesson to themselves.
The issue is that in the medium term we cannot safeguard the euro with the current economic management structure.
Secondly, the President-in-Office of the Council mentioned the structural reforms and the policy mix since Lisbon.
We see the policy mix as the fight for full employment, social cohesion and sustainable growth, bearing in mind the need for Europe to recover technological leadership through strong investment, above all in human capital.
In this respect, the important issue is the composition of this policy mix cocktail.
My group has been committed for many years, and I am thinking of the creation of the single market with its four hundred directives, of the process of structural reforms which has allowed us to create internal markets within the Union.
We believe that what we have to do, and we have been doing so for some time, is to make progress on the creation of these markets.
Secondly, with regard to financial services, I take good note of the fact that the Council values the agreement proposed in the von Wogau report on the so-called Lamfalussy proposal.
In other words, in terms of democracy, I believe that in the Convention we will have to hold very detailed discussions on the basic legislation and the implementation of the legislation with the possibility of parliamentary control.
Finally, Mr President, in relation to the liberalisation of the labour market, I believe that many of the things the President-in-Office of the Council has said are reasonable; in other cases he has used so many euphemisms that it is really difficult to know whether the intention is the liberalisation of redundancies or greater flexibility by means of negotiation.
I believe that this closely reflects a concern which is widespread amongst our fellow citizens.
It is all very well to move ahead with the reform of the labour markets, in a positive fashion, but there is enormous concern about a form of liberalisation which may lead to the disappearance of the rules of the European social model and also a form of liberalisation which replaces public monopolies with private monopolies.
Mr President-in-Office, this House will vote tomorrow on an amendment on your National Hydrological Plan, so we hope you enjoy your glass of water today.
If the European Union were drawing up an end-of-year report card on the Lisbon process, I suspect that the report would say "must try harder".
The Commission communication to the Barcelona European Council speaks of a firm commitment to the growth and stability pact, which will help build confidence.
The European Parliament has done its job.
We gave you our first reading opinion in July of last year and we now look to the Spanish Presidency to send us a common position by June of this year, if we are to meet the Commission's target of adoption by the end of this year.
If the European Union is to be a star pupil, we need progress on liberalisation of energy and gas markets, on implementation of the financial services action plan, on agreement of a public procurement framework.
The process of economic reform is not an end in itself.
Mr President, a lot of things may be going to happen at the Barcelona European Council, but it will not be the opportunity to assess the implementation of the sustainable development strategy that was proposed at Gothenburg: a sustainable development strategy which - I would remind you - is based on the balance between the economy, social cohesion and the environment, three factors which all the European institutions - Commission, Parliament and Council - recognised as being inextricably linked.
We thought, after Gothenburg, that the idea had been established that the Lisbon objective of making Europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 was inadequate as it stood, and that it should be supplemented by the goal of making the Union the most ecoefficient economy.
Indeed, we feel that the Commission communication to the Spring European Council in Barcelona fails to take sufficient account of the environmental factor or of the crucial need for certain changes to the current economic development model.
This is why we feel that the Spanish Presidency' s intention to speed up the process of liberalisation in the most diverse sectors is in direct conflict with the sustainable development strategy.
We are particularly saddened by this in view of the meeting due to take place in Johannesburg, where all the world' s Heads of State will meet to assess the environmental situation 10 years on from Rio de Janeiro.
In other words, Mr President, we fear that Barcelona will be a wasted opportunity from the point of view of achieving the agreed sustainable development goals.
The second strategy prioritised full employment, social integration and education for all, instead.
Finally, I wish to lodge a protest against the fact that almost no account at all has been taken of the candidate countries' needs and interests in our discussion prior to the Barcelona Summit.
There are so many things that remain to be done and so many priorities that were set down at Lisbon, Stockholm, or Cardiff that have yet to be completed, to be achieved and to be reached.
That idea has been turned on its head by the economic realities of existing Member States - also by the performances of other Member States, such as in my own country in particular - Ireland, where an aggressive reduction in taxation policy, reducing the cost of labour and the income tax levy and ensuring that business can survive in a harmonious industrial relations environment with the majority of the earnings that the workers are getting going into their pocket and not going into taxation; while at the same time, increasing the levels of protection that are available for those who are most vulnerable within our society and increasing investments in education and health.
Fine words have been spoken at past European Council meetings about the integration of sustainable environmental policy into economic and social policy.
Strong cohesion between indicators is very important in this respect for the development and assessment of a sustainable environmental policy.
This system of indicators must obviously be integrated into the way in which the development of economic and social policy is measured.
Mr President, with the Barcelona European Council in mind, the Commission has just presented an action plan for the mobility of people in Europe, which, in our view, contains several debatable points.
Some proposals are, admittedly, based on obvious common sense such as lifelong learning, better coordination of social security systems or the transferability of pension rights.
That must be the message we give out, and that is what we clearly expect of the Spring Summit in Barcelona. . (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I am glad that the report on the economic consequences for Europe of 11 September is being debated in the run-up to the Barcelona Summit and in the Bullmann report, as the consequences of 11 September are very closely connected with the future development and implementation of the Lisbon process.
Although many have returned to their daily business, the attacks on 11 September dealt the Western world a shock, as terrorist acts on this scale had hitherto, in any case, dwelt in the realms of science fiction.
At the same time - and this is very important to us - they struck at a crucial stage for the global economy, marked as it was by perceptible slow growth in most of the industrialised countries.
It is for this reason that I would like to warn the Member States and enterprises against seeing the events of 11 September as the sole cause of the contraction in economic activity and using it to cloak their own economic and political omissions.
Our economic problems were, to a great extent, exacerbated by 11 September.
We have to distinguish precisely between the problems that existed even before 11 September and were further aggravated by the attacks, and those which, in contrast, arose only after them.
It often, though, seems today as if - thank God - the terrorist attacks' adverse effects on the European economy are being contained, and, as Mr Duisenberg was saying only a few days ago, problems in several areas have now resolved themselves.
The euro has proved itself in this difficult stage, and the erosion of its value, albeit striking and shocking, has not resulted in a global economic crisis or in a monetary crisis in Europe.
At the same time, we have also seen that we are still, and by a long way, insufficiently independent of the American economy, and that our internal market and the economic activity within it is not yet sufficiently independent of global economic developments.
My group has therefore tabled an amendment to Mr Bullmann's report, calling on the Commission and the Member States to make it their concern, in the revision of the new capital accords in Basle, to take the structural characteristics of European enterprises into account, help small and medium-sized enterprises and to create the underlying conditions in the new EU capital base framework, so that the process being moved forward in Basle, which is the right one, may not result in adverse consequences, but lead to support for the economy.
I also think that we have to make more use of our right of initiative in order to remove the hindrances to the internal market, become more autonomous and, at the same time, to make fully effective the economic potential that exists in Europe, in line with our objectives.
If this happens and we learn the lessons of 11 September and take ourselves seriously, then we will be able to make even better use of the opportunities arising from the new worldview, and of our role in the world in accordance with our supersedence principle, of the environmentally responsible market economy, and perhaps get them more in motion.
Indeed, we were really rather surprised in the Committee on the Environment that the environmental pillar of sustainable development should not be considered of equal importance to the social and economic pillars.
I would like to take this opportunity of expressing thanks on behalf of myself and my colleagues to the European Environment Agency for the work that it has done in relation to the environmental indicators.
I would make a domestic point to my colleagues here, namely that we really address the issue of sustainable development better in this Parliament.
That means that they will want more roads, more cars, more transport emissions and so on.
Secondly, as a generic request from both the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I would now ask the Council to involve the European Parliament in both the definition and the monitoring of the strategies established in Barcelona.
We in this Parliament well know how monetary delights and budgetary frugality end: like days of wine and roses.
The National Hydrological Plan is not, as the amendment says, an example of unsustainable development.
I will speak, though, on the subject to which my Committee devoted its opinion, the fallout from 11 September.
For them, 11 September might well have been an opportunity, if they had gone about it in a credible way, to do what global politics has not been able to do so far, that is, to unreservedly support human rights.
We are discovering something quite independent of 11 September - but, again, taking shape because of that event - the changes in all sectors of the market, with growth in many of them.
Thirdly, reform of the social partnership.
Our group insists that the obligations under the Stability and Growth Pact must be adhered to by all the countries in the eurozone without exception.
The American model is not always to be commended.
To sum up, we accept social reforms but are against 'social dumping' .
The Socialists are in favour of macro-economic stability.
However, the Stability and Growth Pact must be applied in a non-dogmatic fashion but attention must at the same time be paid to the global situation.
We need budgetary discipline, but we need flexibility as well, when the state of the world economy demands this.
My group would nonetheless make reservations about a number of points in the report, certain parts of which are, in our view, pervaded by a fear of liberalisation.
This must be done through open coordination, and I think it a splendid idea that we should implement open coordination in this area.
Mr President, as a Catalan, I am pleased that Barcelona will be the capital of Europe for two days.
It is also expecting the Union to recognise its ancient language, spoken by almost 8 million people, as an official language and a working language of Parliament.
Catalonia needs Europe, without a doubt, but Europe also needs Catalonia.
Consequently, although it acknowledges that we are still seeing worrying levels of poverty and of inequalities in income, the proposals it makes are designed to exert greater pressure for the liberalisation of public markets, the creation of a single market for risk capital by 2003 and of financial services by 2005, the opening up of the electricity market by 2003 and of the gas market by 2004, pushing ahead with a second package of liberalisation in the rail sector and the commitment to reforming the labour markets.
Although the document puts forward some positive measures in the social sphere, with the halving of poverty levels by 2010 and the adoption of social inclusion indicators, the fact is that speeding up privatisations, the attempt to make the labour market more flexible and the insistence on applying the rigid criteria of the Stability Pact whilst failing to take account of the diversities of the Member States and the serious social problems that some of them face, will lead to greater poverty and unemployment.
It is claimed, for example, that the integrated transport systems programme is of benefit to the environment, but the development of the EU' s motorway network since the Treaty of Maastricht was adopted ten years ago has, alone, led to a 15% increase in traffic-related CO2 emissions, and that is quite independent of the political resolutions to reduce total emissions.
The summit programme represents everything but sustainable development, and that is true not only in an environmental perspective.
What, then, of global social and economic sustainability?
Ten years after the Rio do Janeiro Summit, the signs of unsustainability have grown worse and our global response is still inadequate.
With regard to the Barcelona Council, it is crucial that three objectives are fulfilled.
Secondly, it must indicate when and how we will move forwards with the 'environmentalisation' of the European Union' s common policies.
I wish to make one last comment on Amendment No 10, which condemns the Spanish hydrological plan: the very credibility of the European Parliament and the interinstitutional balance are at stake here.
Parliament cannot be turned into an institution of the Court of the Communities, because we would be in danger of setting an extremely serious precedent.
From this point of view, the delays which have accumulated in public and private investment in research and lifelong training, which - I would remind you again - make the processes of mobility and flexibility dependent on the achievement of the absolutely imperative conditions of security and employability, are cause for concern.
Still more disturbing, however, are signs of a slackening of efforts to develop a policy mix which combines responsibility for coordinating economic policies promoting sustainable development with responsibility for coordinating the employment and social cohesion policies, introducing a new era in social dialogue.
This is a violation of Article 30 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which cannot be accepted or endorsed at Barcelona.
Mr President, while of course the liberalising thrust of the Lisbon process in the Barcelona Summit is welcomed, I would like to bring to your attention two warnings.
In that perspective, I hope the Barcelona Summit will turn its attention to the crucial issue of regulatory impact assessment.
The second warning is this.
The Lisbon process - and no doubt this will be picked up at the Barcelona Summit - is now groaning under a whole series of targets.
If I have to fence my house, put up burglar alarms, catches on the windows, etc., it may be good for the economy, but it is not good for my quality of life.
We have to decide as a European Union what we mean by sustainable economic growth and it is not what we are voting about here.
At a time when the European Union is in need of strong economic and social growth and must meet the aspirations of its citizens who are making their voice heard, the Barcelona Summit is being heralded as a decisive step in achieving an accelerated liberalisation of public services that the President-in-Office of the Council earlier referred to as 'a network industry' .
The sizeable disparities that exist between countries in terms of people' s access to these services justify drawing up common European standards that will allow harmonisation to be carried out from above.
They must instead become the heart of European social cohesion, the key to action for a progressive Europe, and become one of its reference points and one of its values.
When presented with the progress report on cohesion in the Union, will we continue to destroy with one hand what we are trying to achieve with the other?
The Barcelona Summit will not restrict itself to this issue, of course, but the fundamental problems are the same: the economic situation, the fight against terrorism, enlargement, the need for more democratic institutions; that is, so many issues which call for renewed consideration of the meaning of the European Union and its goals, with the first meeting of the Convention opening tomorrow.
A more liberal Europe is unfolding behind the More Europe theme, and this is the credo of the market.
Mr President, Mr Rato y Figaredo and Commissioners, I believe we are debating a very important topic today, and I am delighted that this is being done under the Spanish Presidency.
If we can manage to do this, this will benefit our economic role which will become more community-oriented.
Mr President, I personally considered the decision taken at Gothenburg to incorporate the environmental dimension in the Lisbon process to be crucial.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we in the Liberal Group support the general approach and objectives presented by the Spanish Presidency for the Barcelona meeting and we were able to discuss them in detail when Vice-President Rato y Figaredo appeared before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Mr President, two years after the Lisbon Summit, the most optimistic and most willing Europeans recall the announcement of a new paradigm: to make the European Union the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world and achieve greater social cohesion.
This strategy, which was finalised at Gothenburg, is becoming a strategy for sustainable development in the environmental and social spheres.
We are providing flexibility in the employment market and the mobility of employees instead of a real job creation policy.
It goes without saying that the European Union must allow Member States to support enterprises with serious problems that really are attributable to the consequences of the attack, in order to alleviate or prevent adverse effects on their employees, whether these effects are direct and commercial or are associated with these and of a social nature.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in these two minutes I would like to concentrate on a related matter that will play an important part in the Barcelona Summit.
Parliament, though, has always emphasised that there are also requisite boundaries, boundaries that are necessary in themselves and which we have to lay down politically in order to protect health and the environment, but also on ethical grounds.
I wish to ask my fellow Members to support Amendment No 27 to the Jackson resolution, in which we have precisely and even-handedly dealt with this balance between opportunity and risk and call on the Council to act appropriately.
It is one of the best indicators of the will of that country to do well in today's world, so we ask for indicators there.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, to put the environmental dimension on the same level of importance as the economic and social dimension and to act accordingly means stopping talking about sustainable development and actually getting down to implementing it.
The motion for a resolution from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is an initiative which insists on these aspects and it therefore deserves the support of this House.
However, to bring a national issue such as the National Hydrological Plan to the European Parliament, in the context of this resolution, is a grave error which has nothing to do with the desire for sustainable development but which has to do with an intention to abandon the principles of subsidiarity and autonomy on the part of the Community institutions.
Mr de Roo, to try to deprive a Member State, a priori, without good reason, of the Community funds necessary for its economic development and for the social cohesion of its regions is, in reality, to go against the very sustainable development of that Member State.
The changes we need, require fundamental cooperation across Member States of a kind that education ministers, vice-chancellors of universities and national qualification agencies find enormously difficult.
Therefore facing these extraordinary difficulties, the one thing at Barcelona that would move us forward immensely would be to provide the framework, the joint commitment and a realistic appraisal of the resources required to ensure that we make these fundamental leaps to promote education as the fundamental step in the future of the competitive knowledge economy in Europe.
Mr President, the Parliament's committees on which I sit have in the last few days made important progress with legislation on both financial services and energy market liberalisation.
Bickering over the Community patent, moratoria and antagonisms, procedural obstacles which have forestalled all progress in genetically modified crops and a tremendous promise they offer to us in Europe and the developing world especially.
We are already two years past Lisbon, there are only eight more years to 2010 when we are to be the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
If the proportion of women in employment is to be increased to 60% by 2010, the Member States will have to become more pro-active - as they did when combating youth unemployment - and set benchmarks, in order to promote women in the seminal information technologies.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, when I spoke to you in January during the debate on the priorities of the Spanish Presidency, I stressed that the European Union could learn a great deal from Spain, with its largely successful policy that the Prime Minister, Mr José María Aznar, has pursued for several years.
Today I can only repeat what I said then and say it more firmly, in the run-up to the Barcelona European Council.
At Lisbon, against the backdrop of a difficult international economic climate, the EU Heads of State and Government expressed the desire to make the European Union, in the medium-term, one of the most competitive, most dynamic and most prosperous regions of the world.
The Barcelona Summit must ensure that this desire does not turn out to be a vain hope and that the economic, social and environmental reforms contained within this ambitious objective are carried through to completion and that they are not allowed to be deferred.
The new phase in the employment strategy must place more emphasis on the structural barriers to job creation, on the tax regimes and social welfare systems, and enable closer cooperation between the national services that are tackling unemployment.
In all these areas, it is not the time to withdraw into oneself, to be overcautious, or reckless.
Just as some countries of the European Union are single-handedly conducting a policy resulting in restricting people' s will and ability to start up a business, work, and therefore hire employees, other countries of the Union, of the eurozone, are establishing an environment enabling everyone to develop their spirit of initiative and creativity.
It is a faithful, accurate description of the state of the European and world economies following the terrorist attacks of 11 September last year; it is also a working document containing proposals on the future development of the European economy.
It is absolutely vital that all the acceding States apply these rules rigorously: any deviation or indulgence would be counterproductive and would mean that they would subsequently be unable to endorse positions adopted towards other States which appear weaker on paper.
The suggestion put forward of a State reinsurance mechanism is certainly interesting, precisely because these terrorist acts are not committed against individuals but against the community of all people.
The greatest error we can make is to identify our own security and stability with the weakness of other, potentially enemy countries.
It is important that Barcelona does not backtrack on that commitment.
Specifically, I refer to paragraph 22 of the Bullmann report which deals with the question of services of general interest.
It is extremely important in my view that this House gives strong support to that paragraph.
Of course it has to be reformed, but at the same time we have to ensure that the services which general interest deliver are delivered in an equitable, fair and a universal way.
That cannot be done in an ad hoc way.
It cannot be done by each Commissioner or each Council taking its own ad hoc approach.
Mr President, I would like to address the House to talk about the issue of sustainable development at the Barcelona European Council.
But we must also take account of territorial criteria.
We must therefore employ objective and territorial parameters, since sustainable development always affects a specific territory.
In this respect, climate change, for example, cannot only be applied to gas emissions, but also to desertification, which is perfectly quantifiable, and to rain levels.
There cannot be sustainability without an assessment of the social impact, of the habitability of regions, of the negative economic impact and of the costs.
By means of the proposals to be debated tomorrow here in Parliament, those of us in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy have tried to correct some of these deficiencies.
It is also important that we arrange for systematic sustainability assessments to be carried out of all the EU' s political initiatives.
This point is covered in Amendment No 27 proposed by my group.
My second comment concerns the Commission communication on the action plan on mobility.
We shall not obtain a dynamic and competitive Europe though further detailed regulations or through the EU' s taking on responsibility for an increased number of areas.
In this regard, I believe that the Commission has acknowledged that, independently of procedural factors, the efforts and commitments made by both countries are clear and thorough from the point of view of the macroeconomic stability of the European Union and the eurozone in particular.
To continue with the same example, I would highlight the effort that Spanish society has made in relation to the modernisation of the labour market, which has reduced the unemployment rate in Spain from 23% in 1995 to 12% in 2002, and that during the current Spanish legislature, that is, by 2004, that rate will be 9%, which is around the European average.
I believe that experience, not only in Spain but in many countries of the Union, confirms this.
An economy in these circumstances has to be content with a structural unemployment rate of close to 9 or 10% and I am convinced that not a single parliamentary group present believes that to be a good policy, either in economic or social terms.
This is undoubtedly the case, and the public authorities have a role to play on issues such as the defence of workers' rights, the defence of the creation of active and passive social policies which respond to the needs of workers, the creation of training systems and positive discrimination policies in favour of specific groups such as women or women with young children.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to refer to the need, which has also been raised by some speakers, for specific timetables to be established in Barcelona.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
International Criminal Court The next item is the Council statement on the International Criminal Court.
The European Union has firmly supported the historic project to establish a permanent international criminal jurisdiction with universal scope.
The European Parliament is well aware of this fact since it has always been on the front line in promoting the European Union' s efforts to achieve this essential objective for human rights and justice.
Our collective experience on this continent, which has been involved in conflicts and horrors throughout the last century, makes Europeans particularly sensitive to the absolute need to develop and affirm international criminal justice as an instrument of service to human rights and humanitarian standards worldwide.
The European Union is absolutely convinced that the establishment of the International Criminal Court will represent a huge step forward for the whole world.
The International Criminal Court will be a powerful tool in this fight for justice and against impunity for the most heinous crimes - war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide.
In such cases, which affect us all, we have to call upon either national criminal justice systems, through mechanisms which closely cooperate with one other, or properly constituted international criminal tribunals such as those created for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, set up by the Security Council, or in the near future by the International Criminal Court itself.
This does not mean seeking revenge or retaliation, but to ensure that justice prevails as an essential condition for long-lasting peace and reconciliation in every situation where there has been serious conflict.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the preparatory work for the establishment of the International Criminal Court is now at a very advanced stage.
Upon the basis of the Statute adopted in Rome in 1998, the preparatory committee has laid down the majority of the instruments that the Court will need to be able to function effectively.
In this process, which is undoubtedly of a technical nature but with fundamental scope and importance, EU States continue to play a very important role, I would even dare to say a leading role, in the collective work that has been carried out by countries worldwide.
Whilst in the Rome Diplomatic Conference 120 States voted for its adoption, the Treaty has been signed by a total of 139 States, that is to say, an overwhelming majority of the international community.
As you already know, 60 ratifications or signatories are needed for the Statute to enter into force and consequently for the International Criminal Court to be set up.
In accordance with the common position adopted in the Council of 11 June 2001, the European Union urges all States that have not ratified or signed up to the Statute to do so as soon as possible, so that the International Criminal Court can be established in the near future.
I would like to point out that recently 15 candidate or associate countries have adopted the common position and are closely cooperating with us on this commitment.
It is also appropriate to highlight the work that is being carried out in this regard by a large number of non-governmental organisations, frequently with the assistance and cooperation of the European Union.
In accordance with this appeal, the European Union has been making representations to third countries and groups of countries in order that they can speed up the internal procedures necessary to ratify the Statute as soon as possible.
The search for this wide-ranging support for the Court should inspire our efforts.
No one can say that the International Criminal Court is going to be a Court simply for the Western world or developed countries.
It will be a legal institution for the whole international community, fully independent and linked to the United Nations system.
It is important to point out that all countries, whether they have signed the Statute or not, can play an active role in the process of establishing the International Criminal Court through their participation in the work of the preparatory committee and then, if they so desire, as observers in the assembly of signatory States.
In this regard, the European Union has maintained a constant and sustained dialogue with several countries harbouring doubts, some of which are our closest allies - I am referring, in particular, to the United States - and we will remain ready to continue these exchanges, with the aim of clarifying respective positions and promoting a favourable atmosphere for cooperation in the future.
We will need to take all of the necessary measures so that the establishment of this new institution in its permanent headquarters in the Hague will be as quick and efficient as possible.
The preparatory committee and the host country, the Netherlands, are already preparing for the implementation of these measures and the European Union is cooperating with them.
Next, we will have to develop and strengthen all the mechanisms that will help the new institution in order to guarantee its effectiveness both in its headquarters and on the ground.
The experience of the courts for the former Yugoslavia and for Rwanda have taught us that international criminal justice, in order to be effective, needs to be equipped with considerable human, material and operational resources.
Within this context, the European Union and its Member States will have to be prepared to give any assistance that may prove necessary.
This corresponds to each State in accordance with their constitutional practices, but the European Union can help in this process through the exchange of information and, when appropriate, the offer of technical assistance to countries that need it.
All of this is taking place on the basis of the common position adopted in June 2001, which I mentioned earlier, which, if necessary, could be supplemented by a more detailed action plan or, when appropriate, through an updating or refining of its terms depending on the progress of the process.
Mr President, we share a firm commitment to supporting the swift and efficient establishment of the International Criminal Court as an independent and impartial institution devoted to carrying out justice in the worst cases of violations of human rights and humanitarian law throughout the world.
In this regard, all of us, the European Parliament, the Council, Member States and the Commission, are closely united and committed to continuing to act with determination and tenacity.
This conviction, this determination, is what has allowed the European Union to play an unquestionably leading role in this process, together with other countries characterised by their attachment to democracy and human rights.
We are very close to achieving our objective through the entry into force of the Rome Statute and the establishment of the Court.
I am sure, Mr President, that we will lack neither the will nor the consistency to be able to persevere in our commitment, and, for this reason, I believe I will always be able to count on the support of this Parliament.
The statute of the International Criminal Court, concluded in Rome, represents probably the most significant achievement of international law since the establishment of the United Nations.
The Commission welcomes the official statement in January 2002 by the Central and Eastern European countries associated with the European Union, as well as by Cyprus and Malta, countries also associated with it, and the EFTA countries belonging to the European Economic Area, to the effect that they associate themselves with the objectives of the common position.
In the May 2001 Commission communication on the role of human rights and democratisation in third countries, the combating of unpunished crime was ranked as a measure to be promoted as a high priority.
In addition, we hope that the Spanish Presidency will succeed in setting up this International Criminal Court under its own presidency.
Mr President, too much time has passed since, on 17 July 1988 in Rome, the establishment of an International Criminal Court was approved, to bring to justice those individuals responsible for the most serious crimes which, as has already been mentioned here today, are the scourge of the whole world, including terrorism.
There have been 52 ratifications of the Statute to date but, ladies and gentlemen, as you are all well aware, 60 are needed for it to enter into force.
However, a long time ago, Benjamin Ferencz, former prosecutor at the Nuremburg War Crimes Trial, said that there can be no peace without justice, no justice without law, and no meaningful law without a court to decide what is just and lawful under any given circumstances.
Today, following 11 September and the conflicts in the Middle East, the citizens see the establishment of this Court as something urgent and necessary.
Let us not, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, let time slip away and forget about this until the next crime or war reminds us of this ever-present threat.
Mr President, right is wrong.
If all individuals are not treated in the same way, if war crimes and crimes against humanity go unpunished, how can we credibly pass judgment on less serious violations of the law?
Another outrageous bill would even authorise the President of the United States to use violence to liberate people kept in prison by the court.
Mr President, only another eight ratifications are needed for the International Criminal Court Treaty to enter into force, but there are a number of problems to be resolved before the Court can become that instrument of international justice and the fight against impunity that we want it to be.
The second problem concerns the difficult issue of internal rules to bring national legislation into line with the Court' s Statute.
From this point of view, I would genuinely like to express my pleasure at Commissioner Verheugen' s words to the effect that he and the Commission are in favour of supporting the training of specialists to help the Court operate more effectively, not least by providing financial aid.
Mr President, I come from a country that has already completed the process of ratifying the Rome Statute, thereby confirming the humanist tradition of attachment to justice which characterises the Portuguese people; the tradition of a country which abolished the death penalty 450 years ago and life imprisonment 118 years ago.
The most important thing, however, is that we can see the values of justice and of the fight against impunity spreading to the five continents.
Mr President, I feel that, in recent years, the way this issue has been addressed has been a prime example of cooperation between the European institutions.
From this point of view, I feel that, as in other cases, Europe can be proud of these 10 years of dogged, resolute, difficult hard work, in which it was alone at the outset but which is now widely recognised.
The attention accorded to the special courts of accountability too, such as the Sierra Leone court which is about to be set up, is evidence that, when it so wishes, Europe can also be a community of values.
Since 1995, this Parliament has been working towards the creation of this criminal court, and subsequently, in 1998, the Rome Conference very clearly stated the work that needed to be done to set it up.
This has been Parliament' s concern since 1995: that this struggle for a future that is more just will be successful and that this International Criminal Court will take on the crucially important role that it should have in the future.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Democratic rights in Turkey, in particular the situation of HADEP The next item is the Council and Commission statements on democratic rights in Turkey, in particular the situation of HADEP.
From the signing of the Association Agreement, in 1963, and its formal request for accession in 1987 and the Customs Union signed in 1996, relations have had a long journey, which has not always been easy, characterised by mutual interest, rapprochement and, at the same time, by the clear European requirement for certain indispensable conditions that apply to every candidate for accession to the Union to be met.
The Copenhagen European Council laid down the political criteria that the candidate countries must fulfil, which are; achieving institutional stability that guarantees democracy, the Rule of Law, the defence of human rights and respect for minorities and their protection.
Furthermore, the Helsinki European Council formally acknowledged Turkey' s application to join the Union, by concluding with the words that Turkey is a candidate country destined to join the Union on the basis of fulfilling the new criteria that also apply to the other candidate countries.
From now on, Turkey should benefit from the same association strategy for accession as the other candidate countries, which should act as a stimulus and a support for its reforms.
The conclusions of the Laeken European Council indicate that Turkey has made progress on fulfilling the political criteria set for accession, in particular by means of the recent amendment of its constitution.
The prospect of opening up accession negotiations with Turkey has thereby come a step closer.
The European Council urged Turkey to continue making progress on fulfilling the Copenhagen criteria, both the economic and the political criteria, especially with regard to respecting human rights, and acknowledged that Turkey is participating on an equal footing with the other candidates in a matter as vitally important as the Convention on the future of Europe, which will be inaugurated tomorrow in this Parliament.
The Progress 2000 report stated that Turkey had initiated a very positive debate on the political reforms necessary for its accession, one of the most important of which is the fact that it has signed up to various international instruments in the field of human rights.
Two-thousand-and-one saw one of the most important changes in Turkey' s process of democratisation: the adoption of a package of 34 amendments to the constitution, which is the most profound change that this fundamental legislation has undergone since its entry into force in 1982.
The Secretary General of the Council of Europe expressed his satisfaction at this decision, and stated that this marks a step forwards in the field of the protection of prisoners' rights.
The same applies to the entry into force in Turkey of the new Civil Code, which signifies considerable progress in the recognition of non-discrimination on the grounds of gender, in family law and also in the law of succession.
We should also mention the amendment of the law on the National Security Council, which is about to be approved in the Turkish Parliament, in order to adapt it to the new wording of Article 118 of the Constitution and which increases the number of civilian members of the National Security Council, thereby more clearly demonstrating its consultative nature.
Although these constitutional amendments represent enormous hope for the process of democratisation - despite some important omissions, such as not having fully abolished the death penalty, which will still apply in the event of war or to punish particularly serious offences, such as terrorism - the legislative development of these constitutional rules has, however, been clearly inadequate.
The same could be said of the reform of the Civil Code.
In practice, it has already become clear that actions that no longer constitute an offence, in light of the recent reform of the Penal Code, could still be considered to be an offence under some other Article of criminal legislation and punished, in some cases, even more harshly.
An essential element of the Turkish process of democratisation is what is known as the National Programme for the Incorporation of the Acquis, presented by the Turkish government shortly after the Council of the European Union approved the Association Agreement for accession in March 2001.
Furthermore, this plan gives no commitment to eliminate legal barriers to the transmission of radio and television programmes in mother tongues other than Turkish or to safeguard the cultural rights of Turkish minorities.
In this process of reform and progress, in the recognition of the cultural rights of minorities, Turkey is still falling short.
The recent reform of the Constitution has led to the amendment of Articles 26 and 28 and to the corresponding removal of the ban on the use of other languages.
This message was repeated by the National Security Council when it stated that the campaigns requesting Kurdish language education have been orchestrated by the PKK with clearly separatist intentions, adding that this party, the PKK, is attempting to take another step in its strategy of politicisation and of creating a Kurdish nation.
Since its creation, HADEP has been the dominant political force in the southeast of the country and controls the majority of the councils in the cities in this region; but also, since its inception, HADEP has had the threat of being closed down hanging over its head.
The Constitutional Court' s decision of June 2001 to close down the Islamicist Fazilet Party highlighted the problems existing in the field of freedom of expression and association.
There have been thousands of cases of people from the HADEP party being arrested, and although the majority have been released following a short period of detention, these individuals were arrested for being suspected members of the PKK terrorist organisation and were accused of being involved in terrorist activities.
It can nevertheless be stated that in Turkey any mention of Kurdistan, its flag, or the call for education in the Kurdish language, is considered to be collaboration with or support for terrorist activity.
It is also true, however, that, until it is banned, HADEP is a legally recognised party in Turkey and no one can be arrested simply for being a member of this party.
Nevertheless, this progress is still not sufficient to begin talks on accession.
One of the main obstacles is the protection of the cultural rights of all Turks, regardless of their ethnic origin.
Recently, the Secretary General for European Union Affairs, Volkan Vural, announced that a second package of legislative reforms is being prepared.
The Laeken European Council paid tribute to Turkey's efforts and noted that Turkey had moved closer to its objective of joining the European Union.
During my conversations in Ankara a few days ago, I strongly encouraged the Turkish government to be determined in proceeding with their package of political and economic reforms.
During my brief visit to Turkey, I therefore underlined our expectation that further steps would be taken in such areas as freedom of association, the use of languages in radio, television and education, the abolition of the death penalty and the introduction of fundamental legal rights in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights.
At the end of the day, we must not measure the human rights situation in Turkey according to what is written down, but have to judge it by what actually happens in practice from day to day.
State prosecutors and judges have an important part to play in this.
The Commission, like Parliament, is observing developments in connection with the court case against the HADEP party in the Turkish Constitutional Court.
It goes without saying that the Commission assesses this case on the basis of the Copenhagen political criteria, and so I can tell you that, in our view, a ban on the HADEP party in Turkey would offend against our political principles.
Within the framework of an ad hoc delegation, we intend to act in such a way as to protect democratic rights, the multiparty system and, of course, the rights of the Kurdish minority too in Turkey.
Kemal Atatürk, who died more than 60 years ago, founded a unitary Turkish state.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council and the Commissioner have rightly observed that we have managed to set in motion a process of reform in Turkey, but one that still has many, many deficiencies.
I sometimes rather feel that we are being led a dance when the constitution is amended, but not the implementing legislation, thus making it possible for the police and the other security authorities to act, for example, against those who want to be taught in Kurdish and sign up for courses accordingly.
On the other hand, admittedly, intransigent officials are arrested or abducted without it being known whether this is the work of the security forces or of private organisations and without any real attempt being made to find the people who have been abducted or those responsible for the abductions.
The banning of the Fazilet party last year was a poor signal.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I can be brief about what has led us to this discussion: the charge of separatism against HADEP is undesirable and, mainly, unjustified.
HADEP is a democratic party which is trying to defend the cause of the Kurds peacefully, and has done so in the past.
I can only hope, therefore, that the decision to re-examine this case next Friday in terms of the present constitution and the proposed constitutional changes, and not to proceed full steam ahead towards a ban, forms part of a more general change of direction regarding what, in my view, is the central issue under debate here, namely the question of how political, cultural and religious minorities in Turkey should be accorded a place in the political system.
In this sense, the case against HADEP epitomises the choice which Turkey is facing: either the country opts for pluralism, democracy and freedom of expression, or these basic European principles remain subordinate to a dogmatic view of state security.
However, let there be no misunderstanding about the fact that this criticism of Turkey and this support for HADEP are based on one crucial premise, namely that it is to be welcomed that Turkey is one of the EU' s candidate countries and that the European Union must do everything in its power to enable Turkey to acquire membership.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, when Turkey embarked upon a constitutional review process last autumn, my group immediately visited the country in order to initiate an in-depth dialogue with the government or the Grand National Assembly and with representatives of civil society.
In order to encourage the European Parliament to react strongly to this extremely serious and arbitrary development, we immediately invited President Bozlak to come and meet all the groups and proposed sending a parliamentary delegation to Turkey.
I also welcome the fact that we decided, by means of a resolution which all the groups support, to send a clear message to the Turkish authorities, and the following statement, in particular: 'The European Parliament calls for the case against HADEP to be dropped' .
It is the very least that we can demand of a country that will tomorrow be taking part in the Convention on the future of Europe.
Mr President, in no way has the human rights situation in Turkey improved over the past year.
The Conference of Presidents has resolved to send a delegation to Turkey.
Thank you very much, Mrs Uca.
In the vote at first reading in July 2001, Parliament adopted amendments tabled by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
Although the Council accepted a large number of our amendments in the common position adopted on 6 November 2001, some of them did not meet with its approval.
The Committee on Industry therefore went back on the offensive to call for the 'first come, first served' principle to be taken into account in registration policy, so that the policy of extrajudicial conflict settlement could be based on recovery of costs and in particular so that the consultative procedure could be provided within the committee structure.
To the very end, the issue of the consultative or regulatory nature of the committee structure was the main sticking point in the discussions between Parliament and the Commission on the one hand and the Council on the other.
The regulatory mode will apply to most measures concerning the implementation of the regulation, in other words, the general interest policy rules and principles and the definition of the criteria and procedure for the designation of the Registry.
I know that Commissioner Liikanen intends to make a statement to this effect during this part-session and that the declaration to the same effect that is due to be adopted by the Council will be communicated to us tomorrow before the vote on the amendments.
Mr President, following the numerous informal contacts with the Council and the Commission which enabled us to reach a compromise, I should like to thank Commissioner Liikanen and the staff of his departments, the Spanish presidency for its unstinting efforts, my colleagues, Mrs McCarthy, draftsman for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and the coordinators of the political groups.
Together we have achieved a result which should pave the way so that the .eu top-level domain can be launched at the end of the year.
It is a pleasure to be speaking under your gavel for the first time and to offer you my congratulations, and I hope I can have 10 seconds extra at the end for saying that.
I will be withdrawing my amendment, which put down a specific timescale of 6 months for getting the registry authorised, or rather to get the tender documents out in 15 months overall.
It is my pleasure to indicate that the Commission can accept the compromise amendments from 7 to 12.
The most complex issue to address was without doubt the type of committee and procedure to select for this Regulation.
The Commission can accept Amendments 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12.
However, in the light of Parliament's concern over the implementation of the .eu top level domain, the Commission wishes to state the following: The Commission shares the view of the European Parliament that, to be successful, the .eu top level domain should be in place very quickly and should not be burdened by an excessive regulatory framework.
The Commission calls on the Member States to fully subscribe to this objective and to provide the support required for achieving it.
The debate is closed.
It is bound by decisions taken in Parliament and in the Council, and it is dependent upon the effectiveness of supervision in the Member States.
There is, however, a continual need for fundamental reform and a new administrative culture in the Commission.
I should like to call upon the Court of Auditors to investigate what is practised in the Member States.
In the report on the discharge for 1999, the Commission is asked to send Parliament reports twice a year, summarising all the auditors' reports and their recommendations together with the ways in which these have been followed up.
The supply of information is always the biggest bone of contention between Parliament and the Commission.
I really do think it is a splendid result we have achieved.
I should like finally to say thank you for one and a half year' s worth of sound cooperation and, in particular, to thank Commissioner Schreyer.
That is something for which I should very much like to convey my thanks here in this House and, if this is to be the pattern for the future, then it is really something we can build further upon.
Mr President, I should like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur for this report, which concludes the budget discharge for 1999.
I therefore draw your attention specifically to the demand set forth in paragraph 4 of the report, which states that Parliament must have the same access to Commission documents as the Court of Auditors has.
The latest example is the van Buitenen report of 31 August 2001.
I was the rapporteur on the first phase of the Leonardo programme in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, yet the Commission gave me absolutely no indication that fresh accusations of mismanagement had been raised and were being investigated by the Commission and OLAF.
However, I have no doubt that the spineless investigation into the Flechard case - which concerns not only wasted money but also the risk these products posed to health - is an issue which will give us plenty to talk about during the 2000 discharge procedure.
The events of the last few days and the publications on a further van Buitenen report show that European reality does not take place between Parliament and the Commission, between a few officials and MEPs; it takes place in the real world, among 370 million Europeans, who cannot and should not continue to be led by the nose.
Mr President, with the discharge procedure for 1999, the Commission and Parliament opened up a new approach, characterised by greater institutional cooperation.
We are undeniably seeing progress in the field of agriculture, not least as a result of the implementation of the integrated management and control system, but it is equally true that no progress has been made in the monitoring of fraud in the food industry.
Nevertheless, fraud in the food industry committed in order to obtain export subsidies is rarely monitored and when it is, cases of fraud often disappear within the labyrinthine processes of national justice systems, and do not result in Community sanctions or a public explanation of the facts.
Of course, the Commission is happy to read in your follow-up report that you are pleased to have received all the documents requested in the discharge resolution.
I assume that this issue will also feature in the budget discharge for 2000.
OLAF and its significance have been enhanced as a result of the ECJ judgment.
The European Union's budget will undoubtedly continue to grow.
Against this background, I am sure that future discharge procedures and follow-up reports will raise a great many important issues which I hope we can resolve together with the same effectiveness as has been evident in the 1999 budget discharge.
I should like to say here in the House - and this is something of which I am totally convinced - that that man should be removed from the Commission.
The debate is closed.
The Convention on the European Union' s future commences tomorrow.
We are therefore in good time to commit the funding for this.
The concept of such a meeting of representatives of Parliament and governments was born here in this House.
The European Parliament sets great store by the success of this Convention.
Part of this amount, EUR 6.5 million, will be payable by the participants: the three institutions - Parliament, the Commission and the Council - and the governments and parliaments of the Member States or the candidate countries.
This is the amount which actually matters for this is the Convention' s own budget.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the consensus achieved between the institutions in the trialogue held on 18 February, Parliament is now, I believe, able to give its assent to the Draft supplementary and amending budget No 1/2002, which deals with the financial resources intended for the special 'Fund' that will cover the spending of the Convention on the future of the European Union from the first day it begins its work.
We did so because we want the proceedings of the Convention to be a success.
On this basis, we will be voting for the supplementary and amending budget which is contained in the report submitted to this House by the Committee on Budgets.
The Treaty clearly states that the Parliament must receive all documents and information which it deems necessary to the discharge resolution procedure.
As has already been noted, this is a sui generis procedure which diverges in part from the Treaty.
I welcome Article 5 of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Budgets, which stresses that budgetary procedures, in particular on discharge, will have to comply with ordinary law, should the Convention's remit be extended beyond the period originally projected.
Of course, under no circumstances can this be a precedent for future relations between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
The Committee on Budgets and this House firmly rejected this model.
This fund of EUR 4 million should also be spent in a transparent and effective manner and will, inter alia, cover the costs of the chairman and the secretariat.
I believe that the Convention on the future of the European Union will shape the face of Europe.
As has already been mentioned, the costs for this year are estimated to total EUR 10.5 million.
One estimate reveals that a further EUR 4 million will be required for other sundry expenses.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The wretched economic and social situation has exacerbated the political, cultural and national conflicts that characterise the area.
Just as often, however, there are worrying reports concerning, for example, an escalation in Georgian protests on the border with Abkhazia, increased tension on the border between Georgia and Chechnya and the cessation of the Armenian-Azerbaijani discussions at presidential level following the Key West Summit in April of last year.
The South Caucasus can be designated a test case for the EU' s peace policy.
The environmental situation in the South Caucasus is alarming.
The vast majority of politicians, intellectuals and representatives of independent grassroots movements in the region have expressed a strong desire to be bound more closely to Europe.
With regard to the amendments, I recommend approving all of these apart from Amendments Nos 2, 14 and 16.
I am conscious of the fact that there are Armenian circles that try to exploit the events of 1915 to excuse today' s Armenian politics.
Russia is called upon to play an equally important and pivotal role in averting conflict in the South Caucasus and resolving the highly sensitive energy question, with the countries in the region involved either as power producers or consumers.
The southern Caucasus could become a calvary but it could also remain a powder keg.
Mr Gahrton is right to call for a European Union special envoy to be appointed for the southern Caucasus.
A conference between the countries of the southern Caucasus and the European Union could also yield results and make it clear whether it would be better to adopt the 'step-by-step' method or an overall solution.
Mr Gahrton mentioned the fact that a first important step in strengthening the EU' s presence in the region would be to set up delegations in both Azerbaijan and Armenia, but more money from the EU is also needed for the region.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we should give a very warm welcome to Mr Gahrton' s report, which offers the three republics of the South Caucasus region the prospect of a way out of a situation marked by regional conflicts and a state of uneasy truce, so that they can finally find the path towards the durable peace that each of the republics and their populations desire.
We have the political responsibility to help them in their quest.
This highlights our responsibility, for the world and our continent are becoming increasingly interdependent.
I should like to add a few remarks on Amendment No 2 to paragraph 15.
Events during the First World War, which neither the British nor the American governments were then able, following investigations, to characterise as genocide, cannot profitably be discussed in the terms they are discussed in paragraph 15 of the report.
It is true that the land border between Turkey and Armenia is closed, but there is no question of a blockade in the ordinary sense of the word.
There are air links between the countries, and Armenian citizens are able to travel into Turkey.
What the EU can do is work towards a combined negotiated solution to the issues that divide the two countries.
A western Caucasus specialist told me yesterday that this matter of concern requires more coordination between the Member States and the European institutions.
Secondly, the rapporteur is very critical of the role of the United States in the region.
Mr President - I am delighted to see you perched so high up there, if I may say so - Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Per Gahrton, for the many efforts he has made to try and bring this report up to an acceptable level.
He reminded us very clearly in his introductory remarks that we are not there yet, that we still have a very long way to go.
All of these issues have been smouldering for years.
In thirteen years of transition from Communism to democracy, during which time the European Union has invested a billion euros in the region, I do not believe we can claim that European policy in that part of the world has been a resounding success.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our delegation to the EU-Armenia, EU-Azerbaijan and EU-Georgia Parliamentary Cooperation Committees is most grateful to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for enabling us, with Mr Gahrton's report, to focus in more detail on the South Caucasus region in this debate today.
With the troika initiative and the visit to South Caucasus, the European Union has sent out encouraging signals, but things are moving far too slowly.
We have already discussed the aftermath of 11 September in the European Parliament in Strasbourg and expressed concerns about the difficulties which might arise if the situation in the region escalates.
I think that as Europeans, we face an enormous task: to respond as quickly as we can and do our utmost to play a positive role in this conflict in order to give these countries a future.
Mr President, the rapporteur has presented an impressive report which makes it clear that the South Caucasus states are of key importance for Europe's security.
The EU must not renege on existing agreements such as the closure of the nuclear power station in Armenia.
As we know, reconciliation between these countries is one of the key prerequisites for the establishment of peace in the Transcaucasian region, and the international community has every right to expect Turkey, as a major power, to conduct itself in a responsible manner on this important issue.
That is why, Mr President, we shall support item 15 of the draft resolution.
The conflicts in Nagorno Karabakh, Abkhazia and South Ossetia still represent the greatest threat to the stability and development of the region and of its neighbours.
The partnership and cooperation agreements that we have signed with each of the three countries provide a unique platform for cooperation in a broad range of fields, from political dialogue, trade and investment, to relations with civil society.
The European Union has provided some EUR one billion since 1991, the year in which these countries gained independence.
Last year, the European Union sent the region a clear sign of its wish to make a greater contribution to conflict prevention, to conflict resolution and to rehabilitation following conflicts.
In February 2001, the first EU ministerial troika for the region conveyed this message, which was later confirmed in the conclusions of the General Affairs Council of 26 February.
In a joint statement adopted at the meetings of the Cooperation Council last October, the three partner countries explicitly expressed their satisfaction with the intentions of the Union.
In the current situation it is crucial that we maximise our efforts to support our commitments, particularly by means of political dialogue.
Secondly, in order for the European Union to be able to participate to the highest possible degree in conflict resolution, we must continue intensifying our common foreign and security policy as well as our role in the measures to promote conflict resolution.
In conclusion, there is not a single and easy answer to the question of how to improve relations between the Union and the southern Caucasus.
The Gahrton report rightly reminds us that we have to work patiently, on various parallel levels, probably for a long period of time, within the limits of available resources and on the basis of the achievements of the last year.
The Commission wishes to explore new ways of promoting peace and development in the southern Caucasus.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Colleagues will recall that this is an own-initiative report and in our early discussions in committee some concerns were expressed about the potentially enormous scope of a report on such a broad subject as transport and health.
First, the introduction of health impact assessments for all major EU transport projects and policies is probably the single most important initiative which could help integrate transport and health policies and help to minimise the negative impact of transport on health.
Although it is true that vehicles have become relatively less polluting, the effect in absolute terms is offset by the increase in the number of vehicles on the road together with the increases in the length and frequencies of journeys.
First, on health impact assessments: in all the relevant literature it is clear there is still a lack of integration of health issues into transport policy at EU level.
Having spoken to a number of experts, it seems to me that health impact assessments should be introduced for all major EU transport policies and projects so that we can understand better the potential health risks and benefits of different proposals.
These analyses could be very helpfully integrated with strategic environmental assessments.
This proposal actually complements and builds on proposals that are currently being considered in the Commission's proposal for a new programme of Community action in the field of public health.
The other part of my report focuses on promoting cycling and walking within the bounds of subsidiarity.
I hope very much that the other groups will accept that too.
We look forward with interest to the work of the Commission and our Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio.
Efficient transport is crucial to our economy, especially in the case of regions far from the centre of the EU.
The White Paper on European transport policy for 2010 makes the citizen, the user, the very focus of our policies.
Furthermore, the Commission has submitted various practical measures to Parliament - some will be presented shortly - and they are all intended to achieve the same objective: a change to the Regulation on driving times and rest periods, the introduction of speed limiters for small lorries, the mandatory use of seatbelts in all vehicles - particularly in coaches - or the introduction of digital tachographs.
The second factor is traffic pollution.
All of this must be undertaken within the limits of our competences and of our resources, and taking account of the principle of subsidiarity.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The vote on this report will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, it is my duty to present to the House a proposal for a regulation concerning the labour-cost index.
This proposal is based on Article 285 of the EC Treaty, a new provision introduced by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
In particular, this article lays down that the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251, shall adopt measures for the production of statistics where necessary for the performance of the activities of the Community.
These costs are defined as the total quarterly costs incurred by the employer in the employment of labour (Article 2).
The data for the labour-cost index are to be compiled on a quarterly basis (Article 5(1)) and must be supplied in index form within 70 days of the end of the reference period (Article 6(1)).
Transition periods may not extend more than two years from the date of entry into force of the regulation (Article 9(1)).
Analysis of labour costs is undoubtedly an important factor, as I have said, in terms of the macroeconomic perspective.
This index will ultimately have to be refined through the creation of a separate index for total cost excluding expenditure on vocational training for which the employer is responsible.
There is also the possibility, for which provision is made in an amendment tabled by my group, of taking hourly productivity into account and of postponing the first deadline for the submission of an assessment report until 31 December 2003, in order to permit an analysis based on a period of operation which takes account of a possible transition period.
Mr President, generally, when we have to deal here with proposals on the compilation of statistics, the Members of this House are not particularly enraptured - as is apparent this evening - because they regard it as a technical matter which is essentially of little concern to politicians.
Eurostat does excellent work in this domain and will continue to do so, provided that we politicians furnish it with a legal base and the financial resources it requires to perform its task.
Having said this, now that we all have the single currency in our pockets, I should like to emphasise the need to have statistics on labour costs at our disposal, because they are part of the indispensable information that makes it possible to evaluate what is actually happening on the ground in terms of inflation within the euro area, to evaluate developments that are crucial to the stability of our currency, which is now the currency of all our countries apart from the three that have not adopted it.
Mr Solbes can tell us something of what went on in the Council of Ministers, because many people believe that the Stability Pact has already died a natural death.
I accept, of course, that rises in prices and labour prices and labour costs can impact on inflation, but clearly in our Member State economies, where increasingly wage rates are negotiated through national agreements and are linked to productivity, and have all kinds of other factors built into any increases that employees get, the likelihood of labour costs being the driving force behind inflation to my mind is untrue.
I would say that the concern that some of you have expressed about the interrelationship between salaries and inflation, which could be a debate for another occasion, has little to do with what the text of the preamble to the proposal for a regulation actually says.
Ultimately, they affect less than 2% of total costs and, nevertheless, calculating these training costs would have or would lead to a very significant cost in terms of compiling the statistics as a whole.
Nor are we in favour of not drafting the report that is planned for the end of 2002.
The truth, however, is that we will already have a certain amount of experience in implementing the regulation and, furthermore, we will be able to more clearly highlight its shortcomings and problems.
Thank you for your cooperation in approving this regulation, which is important in statistical terms and also important to defining the future of monetary policy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.13 p.m.)
