The issue here is that we have a European Fundamental Rights Agency as if there were no such protection for human rights in the Member States.
Mr President, I voted against this report because the United Kingdom already respects human rights.
Mr President, thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to explain my vote on this important issue.
Moreover, the Community's financial expenditure will be comparable to the current expenditure of the Member States. (CS) Mr Chairman, please allow me to explain why I did not take part in the vote on this report.
The trouble is that these organisations lack democratic legitimacy, and that is very dangerous.
It is suggested that we need to change the legal base; that we need to provide it with EU funding; that we need those it employs to be EU officials; that we need to expand its remit; and that we need an agency so that we can fight organised crime and terrorism.
Mr President, regarding the Polfer report, the Conservatives did vote with the rapporteur on the issue of the South Caucasus.
The great philosopher Brook Benton - followed and copied by the great philosopher Randy Crawford - once said, 'It's a rainy night in Georgia'.
Instead we are stringing the Turks along, imposing tens of thousands of pages of the acquis communautaire on them, making them grovel about Armenia, about Cyprus, about the treatment of their minorities and then, possibly 10 or even 15 years from now, after all of this, we will flick two fingers at them.
I would therefore call on the European Union to play a more active role in the efforts to resolve the conflicts in this strategic area, in particular to get involved in the peace operations and to cooperate more closely with the Russian and Ukrainian Governments.
Explanations of vote in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to express my full support for this report, the fruit of a lengthy and excellent job by our colleague Michael Cashman.
The European Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia was transformed into an Agency tasked with safeguarding and promoting human rights, the Agency being officially established on 1 March 2007.
in writing. - (PT) I obviously supported the creation in February 2007 of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights as I believe that this Agency could significantly help to increase the coherence and cohesion of EU policy on fundamental rights.
The Agency was officially established on 1 March 2007 but is still waiting for the basic elements so that it can become fully operational, in other words the appointment of its director and the approval of a multiannual framework.
in writing. - (PL) I am opposed to the creation of a European Fundamental Rights Agency, and therefore I did not support the Multi-Annual Framework for 2007-2012.
For example, in the course of today's vote on Amendment 6 to the recitals, the question of defining a human being and establishing the point at which it acquires human rights arose.
in writing. - (FR) The PPE-DE Group's French delegation welcomes the adoption of the Cashman report on the adoption of a Multiannual Framework for the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights for 2007-2012.
We welcome the adoption of this report, which will allow the Agency to become fully operational, thus enabling it to accomplish its task and safeguard the rights of EU citizens.
in writing. - (FR) The PPE-DE Group's French delegation welcomes the adoption of the Cashman report on the adoption of a Multiannual Framework for the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights for 2007-2012.
We welcome the adoption of this report, which will allow the Agency to become fully operational, thus enabling it to accomplish its task and safeguard the rights of EU citizens.
in writing. - (PT) Leaving aside the aspects criticised, which we have already had the opportunity to highlight, once the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights becomes operational in due course, its actual purpose will be clarified.
in writing. - (FR) Like the French delegation in the PPE-DE Group, I welcome the adoption of the Cashman report on the adoption of a Multiannual Framework for the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights for 2007-2012.
I welcome the adoption of this report, which will allow the Agency to become fully operational, thus enabling it to accomplish its task and safeguard the rights of EU citizens.
in writing. - The Council's wangling has been entirely successfully: transforming the European Police Office, Europol, from its status as an intergovernmental agency financed by the budgets of the Member States into a European Union agency financed by the EU budget, and applying the status of Community official, all on the grounds of technical, not political, requirements.
Now that 26 European countries have already announced they will not ratify this Treaty by referendum, let us hope that the nations and peoples of Europe will be saved by a rejection of this ridiculous text by the Irish, the only people who are allowed to decide for themselves.
in writing. - (PL) The Member States of the European Union created Europol as an institutional response through which to combat organised crime.
I therefore believe that only when the Treaty of Lisbon is ratified and comes into force in all 27 Member States will we be able to introduce procedural changes and improve this situation, as the Treaty will also reform the decision-making process within the EU.
in writing. - (ES) I voted for the text agreed by consensus with the contributions of the groups.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to vote in favour of the Díaz de Mera García Consuegra report on the establishment of the European Police Office (Europol).
In tabling today's motion for a resolution on Kenya, we are once again condemning the widespread irregularities and the conduct of the incumbent President Kibaki, who in rejecting the offer made by President John Kufuor to help resolve the crisis has seriously undermined the mediation efforts.
As a result, we regard as negative any attempt by the EU to interfere, as indicated and proposed in the resolution, particularly bearing in mind the objectives proclaimed by the EU in its 'Strategy for Africa' and the framework of inter-imperialist cooperation/rivalry concerning this continent that is also clearly evident and that is so deeply felt in this region.
in writing. - (CS) I fully support our resolution on the situation in Kenya, which is based on an up-to-date investigation by the EU observer mission in Kenya at the start of the year.
We must ensure that the authorities in Kenya investigate, without delay, the circumstances surrounding the elections and prevent further violence.
However, this resolution detract from the responsibility of the European Commission to resolve the issue of the transfer of € 400 million to the Congolese Government.
in writing. - (PT) The European Parliament today adopted my report on the role of women in industry.
This situation is even more serious when you consider that women's wages are around 30% lower than men's wages in industry, whereas the average for other sectors is 15%, despite the Equal Pay Directive having been around for more than 30 years.
in writing. - (SV) This report deals with a number of aspects which, in themselves, are important but in respect of which the Member States retain the power to act and the responsibility to develop and improve their legislation.
We have thus voted against the report in question.
in writing. - (PL) Clearly, European industry is undergoing far-reaching change.
in writing - (PL) Human rights are the foundation of democracy.
One aspect of this issue concerns the employment and role of women in industry.
in writing. - (FR) In many recitals and paragraphs of this extremely long resolution, we are stating the obvious.
If my company is based in the city of Luxembourg and has no other branches, I cannot put in a request to work in Schifflange where I live.
in writing. - (CS) I agree with many of the ideas in the report on women in industry.
However, I am not happy that specific attention was not given to the regional unemployment among women who lost their jobs in European textile factories at the time when this was happening.
The result has been reduced unemployment, as well as giving men and women more time for family life.
in writing. - (SV) As a liberal and a member of the Liberal Party of Sweden, Folkpartiet, I always find reports from Parliament on equality somewhat tricky.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Figueiredo on the role of women in industry.
We should make every effort to ensure that the principle of equal opportunity is complied with in these new sectors.
in writing. - (IT) The resolution on which we are about to vote cannot fail to receive the support and vote of the UEN Group.
