Laos and Vietnam The next item is the four draft resolutions on Laos and Vietnam.
I would like to mention just one case which I think is typical, that of Mrs Tran Khai Thanh Thuy.
Mr President, the human rights situation in Vietnam is disturbing.
The monks who sought refuge in the nearby Phuoc Hue temple were beaten up.
At the beginning of November, more than 300 peaceful demonstrators calling for more pluralism and democracy were brutally beaten up by the secret police.
The 5 000 Hmong refugees who are currently living in camps in northern Thailand and who are a persecuted minority are also in an appalling situation.
We really have to condemn the fact that more than 300 monks and nuns from two monasteries had to leave as a result of violence and that religious communities are continually being harassed.
Rules introduced in 2008 concerning blogs require that their content be limited to personal matters, and ban the dissemination of antigovernment materials and material which undermines national security. (The President asked the Member to speak more slowly) Foreign non-governmental organisations report that bloggers who raise political subjects are held in prison.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the ALDE Group is of the opinion that Laos and Vietnam are no democracies.
Although quite a number of people in Europe are fighting Christianity by legal means, it is our obligation, the obligation of all of us, to take action against the barbarity we are witnessing in some of the countries of Asia. (FI) Mr President, in September, Laos took one important step forward in the improvement of human rights by ratifying the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
The leaders of the student movement arrested in the demonstrations in October 1999 and other prisoners of conscience must be freed immediately, as also must those arrested in the peaceful demonstration held on November 2 this year.
Finally, we request the Laotian Government to do its utmost to release everyone arrested on 2 November 2009 during the attempted peaceful demonstration, as well as the leaders of the 'Student Movement of 26 October 1999'. (PL) Mr President, in this Parliament, we spoke of Vietnam, particularly in the context of the religious persecution of Buddhists, in the previous Parliamentary term.
As a blogger, I would like to protest at the persecution of our fellow internet users and bloggers in Vietnam.
We must vigorously defend them. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, persecution and discrimination on religious grounds are nothing new in Vietnam.
In fact, the Hanoi Government has demanded that 10 internet sites, which regularly disseminate dangerous political material, be blocked for security reasons and to combat those movements that oppose the party.
The situation is also extremely worrying in Laos, where Christians are being persecuted relentlessly by means of arrests and threats, to the point where they are even being expelled from their villages at times.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the Commission maintains that in recent years, there has been a substantial improvement in the general political situation in Laos, and agrees with Parliament that the ratification by Laos of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) is a welcome step towards respect for the freedoms of faith, association, speech and the press.
The Commission shares the opinion of Parliament that the detention of 158 people held in Nongkhai requires urgent solution.
We urge Vietnam, as party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to honour its international human rights commitments and to release all those prisoners, in particular, human rights lawyer, Le Cong Dinh, democracy advocate and writer, Tran Khai Thanh Thuy, and Catholic priest, Father Nguyen Van Ly, who are currently in detention for having peacefully expressed their views.
That is why we encourage Vietnam to adopt a press law that will be in line with Article 19 of the ICCPR on freedom of expression.
