Sovereign Wealth Funds (debate) the next item is the joint debate on the following oral questions: oral question to the Council by Mrs Berès, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the EU answer to the challenge of sovereign wealth funds - B6-0164/2008) and oral question to the Commission by Mrs Berès, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the EU answer to the challenge of sovereign wealth funds - B6-0165/2008).
I hope, Mr Verheugen, that you will be able to report back to Commissioner Charlie McCreevy on the nature of our debate.
It is also undoubtedly why, unlike the Commissioner responsible for the internal market, the President of the Commission himself felt it useful and necessary to publish on 27 February a document that forms the basis of our discussions today.
The IMF examined the funds' current practices, organised a round table focusing primarily on these topics and set up an international working group composed of 25 countries that possess such funds with a view to drawing up a report, which is due to be published at the end of October of this year.
As you know, in February 2008 the Commission presented a communication entitled 'A common European approach to Sovereign Wealth Funds'.
On 4 March the Council examined this communication and submitted a report to the Spring European Council.
So as not to leave anything out, it is important to note, too, that the question of sovereign wealth funds was discussed at the meeting of the Transatlantic Economic Council, with which Commissioner Verheugen is very familiar, held in Washington on 9 November 2007.
Of course, such national measures should not contradict the common European approach advocated by the Commission on the basis of the principles I have just mentioned and supported by the European Council.
The European Council also added that the Union should endeavour to contribute to the current debate in a coordinated manner and it invited the Commission and the Council to continue the work in that direction.
In its aforementioned February communication the European Commission has therefore set out how, in our opinion, Europe should respond to this challenge.
Sovereign wealth funds did not just arrive on the investment scene yesterday but have in fact been investing in Europe for about 50 years.
The communication from the Commission sets out some of the options that are available.
Any review of investments in sensitive sectors at EU level also has to examine all investment sources, not just sovereign wealth funds.
Since the European Council meeting in March signalled its support for this approach the European Commission has been actively involved in the work of the IMF and OECD on the definition of best practices.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, I completely agree with the Commission and Council assessment on sovereign wealth funds.
We must not endanger this in the future through overregulation and protectionism but rather should abide by our free market principles. - (NL) Sovereign wealth funds have been active on the financial market for more than 50 years.
These countries may well, I think, be entitled to seek the best way to invest their reserves in foreign currency, so I take a positive view on the contribution of these funds.
The disadvantage of this lack of transparency is that it can result in growing uneasiness on our part about these sovereign wealth funds.
Madam President, I share the concerns expressed here by many speakers about state-owned funds, but I would like to stress as well that private commercial funds, such as hedge funds and private equity, are of even more concern.
The capital held in sovereign wealth funds now totals well over USD 3 trillion, which is twice as much as that held in hedge funds: reason enough for us now to look into this whole business.
Madam President, I would caution my colleagues against demonising sovereign wealth funds, let alone, Mrs van den Burg, private equity investors.
These contributions from Members will certainly help us to continue the work in the Council and in the Commission with a view to drawing up a code of conduct.
The OECD Working Group, on the other hand, is seeking to determine how we ourselves should behave in response to the influence exerted by sovereign wealth funds.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 9 July 2008.
