Taxation of unleaded petrol and gas oil (debate) The next item is the report by Olle Schmidt, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council Directive amending Directive 2003/96/EC as regards the adjustment of special tax arrangements for gas oil used as motor fuel for commercial purposes and the coordination of taxation of unleaded petrol and gas oil used as motor fuel - C6-0109/2007 -.
However, the Commission cannot accept most of the amendments suggested in the report.
The Commission considers that its own proposal takes all relevant factors into account.
As regards Amendments 4 and 10 introducing a new definition of commercial diesel for motor vehicles not less than 3.5 t, I would like to clarify that the suggestion was not included in the original proposal.
The Commission's proposal was rejected in its entirety.
The minimum taxes on diesel are raised more slowly than proposed by the Commission, from 302 euros per 1 000 litres at present to the same level as the tax on unleaded petrol, 359 euros per 1 000 litres, by 2015.
Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Bulgaria and Romania would be given until 1 January 2016 to introduce the higher minimum tax.
The Commission wants to raise the minimum tax to 380 euros per 1 000 litres by 2014.
In order to avoid further distortion of competition, the committee considers that those countries which have tax rates of over 400 euros per 1 000 litres on diesel and 500 euros per 1 000 litres on unleaded petrol should not raise their tax rates on these fuels before 2015.
I last heard on the news that it was close to 110 dollars a barrel.
on behalf of the PPE-DE group. - (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
The biggest sacrifice in this regard is being made by the newly acceded Baltic and Balkan states, as prices and incomes in these countries are lower and they have taken on a huge challenge in terms of inflation and competitiveness, and also in the social sphere, particularly in the run-up to introducing the euro.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, the Commission's proposal on taxation of unleaded petrol and diesel oil is aimed at limiting the excessive use of fuel in transport and thus reducing environmental pollution.
The Commission also hopes that its proposal will assist in reducing the differences in the excise duty rates imposed by individual Member States, thus contributing to creating more equal conditions for competition on the single market.
Firstly, we propose reducing the target minimum rate of excise duty on fuel from EUR 380 per 1 000 litres to EUR 359 per 1 000 litres.
Secondly, we propose a two-year extension of the transitional period for introduction of the new rates in the new Member States, taking it to 2016.
The Commission proposal seeks to raise the excise tariffs in stages and so reduce the difference between the Member States.
Moreover, the Commission uses distortion of competition as an argument for raising the minimum excise rate on diesel for professional use.
I am astonished that fuel tourism is used as an argument for raising the minimum excise on diesel for professional use, as this argument is excessively strong.
The Commission proposes a sharp increase in the minimum rate, to 380 euro per 1 000 litres.
The EP's committee eventually settled on an increase to 359 euro per 1 000 litres by 1 January 2015.
Parliament believes that the Member States must freeze the excise tariff on diesel at 400 euro per 1 000 litres until 1 January 2015.
However, the lack of viable alternatives for fuelling the commercial goods transport fleet means that fuel prices are a strategic factor in the competitiveness of many countries.
However, I personally doubt that, given the current level of oil prices, the reinforcement of this kind of message by means of taxation is necessary.
Here we require the Member States, now applying exorbitant excise duty of over 400 euro for 1 000 litres of diesel and 500 euro for 1 000 litres of unleaded petrol, not to increase these rates any further until 2015.
Finally, if you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to make a point of order.
I want to ask the Commissioner, who claimed we support his proposal, whether he lives on another planet, because we do not in fact support his proposal. (EL) Mr President, now that inflation in the euro area is at its highest historical point and the price of oil has reached USD 110 dollars a barrel, the European Parliament will tomorrow raise indirect tax on fuel.
We must avoid such tax-raising acrobatics. (BG) My country has made great efforts to increase the excise tax over the recent years and the taxes rates for lead-free gasolene have grown from EUR 254 in 2004 to EUR 350, while those for diesel fuel from EUR 203 to EUR 307 respectively.
Firstly, it seems that the price of oil will not fall below USD 100 per barrel in the future, which will result in a continuous rise in the price of fuel.
Secondly, per capita GDP in the new Member States is lower than in the older ones, as is the level of personal income.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for the comments and views expressed during the debate.
Obtaining a positive opinion from Parliament on the Commission's proposal for special tax arrangements for commercial diesel is very important.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 13 March 2008.
