(1) &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council statement on the programme of the Irish presidency.
I know that I can count on the Members of the European Parliament to work with us during our term for the greater good of the European Union.
This task deserves our full attention and we each have a part to play.
As a presidency, therefore, we are totally committed to working intensively with Parliament at all levels so that our interaction is as constructive and productive as it can be.
And we must ensure that the Union can play a positive and constructive role in the world.
The Irish presidency is the first to see the full implementation of the Seville European Council decisions aimed at ensuring a more coherent and strategic approach to our work.
Our programme is, therefore, consistent with and reflects the priorities in the annual Operational Programme for 2004, prepared with the future Dutch presidency.
It is also consistent with the Multiannual Strategic Programme for 2004-2006.
The preparation of the annual and multiannual programmes with the Netherlands and with the four presidencies to follow has been both an innovation and a practical example of 'Europeans – Working Together'.
We want a Union that is more democratic, more accountable, more transparent and more effective.
A new constitution is fundamental to this.
The European Convention did outstanding work in bringing forward an excellent draft text.
In my contacts with many of you here in Parliament since the Brussels European Council, we have made clear our strong support for a speedy and successful outcome to the Intergovernmental Conference.
You may rest assured that I have heard that message and I share your view.
We have taken up this challenge and we will do all in our power to see it through.
Various possible solutions have been proposed.
I am convinced that this is profoundly in the interests of the Union and its citizens, and indeed of the Member States individually – new and old, large and small.
It would help the Union play a more coherent and effective role in the wider world.
That process of consultation is well under way.
All of them have indicated their commitment to helping us find a way forward.
I can assure Parliament that if my consultations suggest that there is a real prospect of agreement, I will immediately move to seize the opportunity.
This issue will command the highest priority under our presidency.
The Irish presidency has begun in a Union of 15 Member States and will end in a Union of 25.
We will prioritise work in relation to Romania and Bulgaria with the aim of concluding negotiations this year.
We also welcome Turkey’s efforts to fulfil the necessary criteria with a view to a decision to be taken at the European Council next December.
I am convinced that the accession of Cyprus continues to provide the context for a comprehensive settlement, which would enable the accession of a united island on 1 May.
As the presidency, we will support fully the central role of the United Nations Secretary-General in this process.
I urge all parties in the period ahead to demonstrate conclusively their commitment to negotiating a settlement on the basis of his proposals.
The newly enlarged Union must work for all its people.
Four years ago in Lisbon, we agreed on the goal of making the European Union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
It is the means by which the Member States and the European institutions can work together to develop the European economy, to create more employment, to ensure social protection and to invest in a sustainable future for us all.
Next year, we will be half way towards the 2010 target date set at the Lisbon European Council in March 2000.
We have seen advances in the areas of research and development, financial services, liberalisation of energy markets, telecommunications, environmental protection and regulatory reform.
Despite these achievements, it is increasingly clear that unless we increase momentum, we will not make Europe the most competitive economy in the world by 2010.
We intend to use the Spring European Council this year to give renewed focus and impetus to the Lisbon Agenda.
We must increase our efforts to implement at individual Member State level those reforms and legislative changes already agreed, if we are to reap the full social and economic benefits.
I have written to you, Mr President, and to my colleagues in the European Council, setting out my proposed approach and the key elements of the Lisbon Agenda, on which I intend to focus at the Spring European Council.
Our primary focus is clear: sustainable growth and high-quality employment are our twin priorities.
It is my intention that, during the Spring European Council, we will have a real debate on the most pressing economic and social challenges facing Europe.
Investment in physical and human capital, supporting higher rates of growth across the European Union economy and, equally, continuing to maintain macroeconomic stability are just some of the challenges.
Social dialogue will greatly assist us in addressing these challenges.
During our presidency, I look forward to working with the European social partners, through the Tripartite Social Summit in March and in other ways, to boost their involvement in achieving the overall Lisbon goal.
The Irish presidency will contribute to the process of setting up a meaningful evaluation of the Agenda, in cooperation with our partners, including the incoming presidency.
Over the past 50 years, we in Europe have created an area of peace and prosperity.
We have also created a single market where our people can trade and do business without barriers.
As a presidency, Ireland will work for the greatest levels of freedom, security and safety for all the people of the European Union.
This will involve a wide-ranging agenda including asylum, immigration, police, judicial cooperation in criminal matters and civil law cooperation.
The June European Council is likely to initiate an assessment of the achievements of the Tampere programme, with a view to launching a further development of the Union’s justice and home affairs policies.
We will place emphasis on the fight against drugs and organised crime and on combating illegal immigration.
The range of foreign policy issues that the Union now deals with and the breadth and intensity of the Union’s contacts with its partners around the globe is truly extensive.
I welcome Parliament's decision to award the Sakharov Prize to the Secretary-General of the UN.
The challenge for our presidency is to put this declaration into practice.
As a presidency, we will also progress work on the Union's crisis management capabilities.
Our presidency will be practical and imaginative in promoting human rights around the globe.
During our presidency, we will adopt the EU guidelines to support human rights defenders.
We also intend to implement the EU´s Strategy on Children in Armed Conflict.
The world is a better and a safer place when the European Union and the United States work together, pooling their considerable energy and resources to achieve our shared goals based on our shared values.
Our aim will be to consult and cooperate with the United States on the broad range of issues, both political and economic, that face us all.
We intend to work particularly closely with the United States on areas such as the Middle East, Iraq, Afghanistan and effective multilateralism, as well as on the extensive trade and economic agenda.
We will not always see eye to eye, but we can and should concentrate on those areas where our cooperation is to the mutual benefit of our citizens and the wider international community.
This is reflected in the fact that the European Union will have summit meetings with the US, with Canada, with Latin American and Caribbean countries during our presidency.
These meetings will provide key opportunities to strengthen our relationships.
Our participation in the Quartet will be based on this principle and we will work closely with our partners in an effort to move the peace process forward.
Our security and well-being are increasingly intertwined and we need to work effectively together.
In the conflict prevention area, we want to focus, in particular, on the role of non-governmental organisations and civil society in conflict prevention.
We also want to integrate support for conflict prevention into our engagement and dialogue with the rest of the world.
This is particularly relevant in the case of Africa.
There are 290 million people living below the poverty line in sub-Saharan Africa.
An estimated 30 million are infected with HIV/AIDS.
We must work with our African partners to find comprehensive solutions to these problems.
Our overriding approach as a presidency will be to support African-led initiatives to tackle the enormous challenges the continent faces.
The Union has a critical role to play in responding to major developing challenges such as poverty alleviation, the fight against infectious diseases and environmental degradation.
The Union must set an example in relation to the progress towards the Millennium Development Goals and the creation of a fairer and more stable world order.
We also need to extend to our near neighbours the conditions of security, stability and prosperity that we enjoy in the European Union.
After enlargement on 1 May, there will be 385 million people living in the countries on the external land and sea borders of the Union.
The Union has reached a shared understanding with the countries of the Western Balkans that their future lies within the European Union.
The Union will strongly support their efforts as they pursue wide-ranging and difficult reforms.
Since Cancun, the European Union has been reflecting on the way forward in order to achieve a successful relaunch of the Doha Development Agenda.
A successful conclusion to the current round of trade talks is vital for long-term economic growth and development in the world.
The Union's relations with Asia are a key element of our agenda.
Our engagement will be at all levels in the region.
We will pursue political dialogue with the full range of countries, including an Asia-Europe meeting at foreign minister level in April.
There is a range of important dossiers which require close cooperation if they are to be satisfactorily progressed in the time available to us.
The discussions on the Members’ Statute are of particular concern.
I pay tribute to President Cox for his personal commitment to bringing closure to these discussions.
The Parliament vote, in December, provides the basis for us to move forward together to achieve an agreement which has eluded our institutions for too long.
The Irish presidency hopes to conclude this matter rapidly and is doing all in its power to deliver a positive outcome.
The Union must meet new challenges and exploit new opportunities that lie ahead.
We must tackle these challenges and embrace these opportunities together, united by our shared interest in the success of the Union.
The founding fathers were inspired by the dream of a future in which Europeans would never again fight each other to the death over resources, over territory or over their beliefs; a future in which Europeans would never again be divided from each other.
The founding fathers dreamt also of a Europe in which ever-closer cooperation would deliver greater security and prosperity for its people.
I come from a country where membership of the European Union – a Union which we have helped to shape – has enabled us to develop and to flourish to our fullest potential.
We call on everyone to help us with this challenging task for the six months ahead.
We know that, as Europeans, our strength is our unity.
Furthermore, I am stepping up my consultations with the governments of the new Member States in order to appoint new Commissioners.
The aim is, of course, to integrate the new members of the College as from 1 May 2004, after they have been approved by Parliament.
The celebrations in Dublin will be a symbolic moment, which will open up new horizons.
We propose the European model as a way of structuring relations between countries outside of Europe; everyone is hugely interested in this model: in Asia, in Latin America, everywhere.
In recent years, the world, which has become less secure, has gone through a period of profound uncertainty.
I am therefore pleased by the call from the Irish Presidency to promote strong and effective multilateralism, respect for human rights and conflict prevention: these principles are European principles.
We must work together with the Member States to help Secretary-General Kofi Annan&#160;–&#160;whom we will meet in two weeks time&#160;–&#160;to push ahead with the reform of the United Nations, an organisation that we want to be strong, effective and present wherever peace is under threat, where people are in need of aid, where human rights need protecting.
I therefore agree with the proposals made by the Irish Presidency to concentrate Union measures on humanitarian aid, respect for human rights and on the political, economic and social factors that fuel war and violence.
For the Commission, adopting this Constitution is an absolute priority: both the Irish and the Dutch Presidencies can count on our continued support. 2004 must be the year of the European Constitution.
Clearly, there are risks involved in any situation and the Commission insists that we all move together towards a form of integration that is more solid and which enjoys broader agreement.
If the efforts to this end were to fail repeatedly&#160;–&#160;and I do hope that this does not happen&#160;–&#160;then we could not, of course, oppose better solutions from other quarters but, I repeat, this does not apply to the historic phase in which we are currently working: we are now working towards us all having a Constitution shared by all the Member States.
Mr President, I would like to finish my speech with the European measures for economic growth, to which you referred very clearly.
After several difficult years, the economy finally seems to be picking up: not too enthusiastically, but at least there has been some improvement.
The Spring Council will continue in the direction outlined in the Lisbon strategy, which remains the only basis that will allow Europe and its economy to maintain&#160;–&#160;I am not saying to increase, simply to maintain&#160;–&#160;its prosperity, security, social justice in a globalised world.
I would again like to stress the need to create research centres of excellence in Europe and at world level, or even better, that are the best in the world.
Our continent must once again become what it was for centuries: the reference point for researchers across the world.
Our young people must be able to find opportunities to study, work and be successful in Europe: that is their right.
I say this not only for the sake of young people, but also because their success is the key to our own survival.
This must, therefore, be the aim of our policies and our effort to meet the expectations of the people of Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, just before Christmas the political group chairmen had an opportunity to speak to the then-incoming Irish Presidency: with the Taoiseach, Foreign Minister Brian Cowen and the Minister for Europe, Dick Roche.
The Irish Presidency of the time performed excellently, and I wish you every success in the coming six months as well.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you mentioned the Constitution.
For my group, for the European People’s Party section of it, the Constitution is the number one priority.
We in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats may support the principle of double majority for decision-making in the Council of Ministers, but it cannot now be considered a fundamental principle whereby we say that if it is not accepted, the whole Constitution project will fail – certainly not.
Then there is the discussion about ‘core Europe’ or a two-speed Europe.
Let us stop talking about a two-speed Europe, let us create this Constitution and move forward together.
Mr President-in-Office, the elections for the European Parliament fall during your Presidency.
The Convention’s draft Constitution says – although of course it is not yet in force – that the results of the European Parliament elections will be taken into account when the Commission President is appointed.
I do not know whether your Presidency will actually make a proposal for the office of Commission President at the end of June, after the elections.
This time the results of the European elections must be taken into account.
The Commission as a whole must be balanced.
Mr President-in-Office, you went on to speak about our relationship with the United States of America.
Everyone in the world is subject to a system of law.
So my request to you is: give human rights a chance, again by referring to them in documents and agreements.
With regard to the Constitution, I would like to note, firstly, the decisive attitude of the Irish Presidency, a prudent but firm attitude – , as the Latins said, (we must press forward slowly and prudently) – and I hope that you can present us with proposals in March.
I do not want to enter into controversial territory, I believe that Parliament’s position has also been prudent, firm and serious and I hope that with the Irish Presidency we manage to unravel this extremely important issue.
The second important challenge is economic.
The President has talked about an issue which is very important, and in relation to which Ireland offers an example to the current Union and to the enlarged Union, which is the implementation of the Lisbon strategy.
We must also provide a future for the Stability and Growth Pact.
With regard to international policy, I would like to stress two elements: one is the President-in-Office of the Council’s insistence on the value of human rights at world level and the importance of Kofi Annan’s visit, because it is an affirmation of Europe's attachment to multilateralism.
I believe that the important thing, from the point of view of the European Parliament and democracy in Europe, is that the Irish Presidency applies the Simitis-Cox Agreement to the letter, taking the form of an exchange of letters, according to which the Council will have to propose the candidate to the Presidency of the Commission after the European elections.
As far as that we are all in agreement and I hope that the Irish Presidency will comply with it.
With regard to the European elections, the issue is open, nobody has won them and I would like to ask my distinguished colleague, the chairman of the technical group of European conservatives, to explain to me what you have in common with the British Conservatives in relation to Europe.
He wrote a famous novel in Trieste, a city that some years after his death came to mark the southern end of a line which divided our continent for half a century.
This year, under this Irish presidency, that line will finally be erased.
History, as Stephen Daedelus reminded us in James Joyce's , is a nightmare from which we are trying to awake.
The Irish presidency is right to focus on enlargement.
It is appropriate that a country which speaks for the transformative power of the European Union should oversee that process.
But we should not be tempted to believe that we can separate enlargement from agreement on the instrument designed to make that step possible.
Integrating the new Member States into the Lisbon process and Schengen cannot hide the fact that without the additional framework of a new constitutional settlement we are simply changing the oil in a Union which needs a new engine.
Liberals in this House welcome the Taoiseach's strong commitment to advancing the work of the IGC.
My Group also welcomes the presidency's intention to sustain the momentum of enlargement by concluding accession talks with Romania and Bulgaria and by responding to the request from Croatia.
The political will needed to undertake reform and give the eurozone credibility has not yet clearly been summoned.
The EU must act together to demand conscionable treatment for all detainees in Camp Delta, including the Europeans who have now been held for two years without charge.
I welcome, Mr President-in-Office, your commitment to review justice and home affairs in the Union.
That commitment must now be carried through into reform by both Parliament and the Council so that the statute can enter into force after the elections.
If my Group could offer you a slogan for it, it would be 'restoring belief'.
Deliver a deal on the Constitution and see in enlargement and you will have done Europe, and Ireland, proud.
Carry that spirit through to the European elections in June, to a pan-European campaign with a continental consciousness rather than 25 national campaigns, and history will give you rich reward. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, when observers talk about the difficulties that the Irish Presidency is going to face, they all stress the fact that the constitutional process is deadlocked.
The challenge that we now have to meet is more ambitious, much more ambitious than seeking a compromise of power between two black sheep in the European Council.
It is to dare to go beyond what is left unsaid, the soothing proposals, the Community hangover, and dare to call a spade a spade and a crisis a crisis.
First of all, there are the crises of the euro and the stability pact, because the two problems are linked.
This must change.
It is in no way a measure for trying to encourage a restart in the short term’.
This must change.
The second example of a crisis, which is quite significant, is that of the financial perspectives, and therefore of the solidarity policy at the time of enlargement.
It was the Commission that, several months ago, triggered the former.
On the basis of the famous Sapir report, drawn up at its request, it took responsibility for accrediting the unacceptable idea of a reduction in the Structural Funds after 2006.
This must change.
This must change.
My group sees all of these expectations of Europe that are being expressed in different regions of the world as an excellent opportunity that we should grasp.
I am thinking of our partners who were disappointed in the Barcelona process, whose grievances we need to listen to so that we can restart Euro-Mediterranean and, more generally speaking, Euro-Arab relations.
When I say ‘we’, I mean the Council, the Commission, Parliament.
Then, Mr President-in-Office, you said how wonderful it is that the Convention has done excellent work.
We have to decide for once and for all whether Europe will be capable of taking decisions in the future.
That is the true history of two-speed Europe.
You may be the largest group, but you are far from being the majority.
There is something else I would like to say: let me add something else.
Either we want Europe to be based on human rights and the rule of law, in which case there is one road open to us, namely, to be honest.
The list goes on: we also have to be honest with Iran.
In Brazil, they have decided that if their citizens have to have their photograph and fingerprints taken when they travel to the United States, then all US citizens who come to Brazil will have to do the same.
To close, I would like to touch on the Stability Pact and the Commission.
With regard to the IGC, the failure to reach agreement at the December Brussels Summit is, undoubtedly, a serious setback for the European Union, but it is not a crisis.
The Union will continue to function on the basis of the existing Treaties and the process of enlargement, with the accession of ten new countries on 1 May 2004.
However, a hastily reconvened summit and a second failure to reach agreement on a constitutional treaty would quickly plunge the European Union into crisis.
After the summit failure, the immediate need was for a period of calm reflection by Member State governments and EU institutions.
I am delighted that the Irish presidency has already embarked on an intensive programme of consultations with fellow Member State governments during the first working week of its presidency.
I am also pleased to note that the Irish Government is most diligent in seeking clarification on the results of the bilateral meetings which took place at the end of the last presidency.
It is important – indeed essential – to determine the exact position in which we find ourselves at the earliest possible opportunity.
All of us must avoid inflaming the debate by raising issues which could be interpreted as threatening in many national capitals.
The European Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, must do everything possible to ensure that the idea of a two-speed Europe does not gather momentum.
If some Member States wish to move forward at a faster pace on specific issues, then the enhanced cooperation mechanism already exists to enable them to do so.
These methods could be applied to other sectors or issues if necessary.
The Spring Summit will also focus on the Lisbon Agenda and I welcome the presidency's proposal to give renewed impetus to the reform goals agreed at Lisbon.
It is regrettable that some Member States are now advocating a reduction in the size of the EU budget.
At a time when the European Union is expanding to include ten new countries and when these countries are making stringent efforts to encourage economic growth, we have a duty at least to give these countries access to resources, which the existing fifteen have had access to in the past.
It is in all our interests to encourage these countries to reach their maximum potential as soon as possible.
The Commission should ensure that the resources in future EU budgets are sufficient to provide for a continuation of existing EU programmes in an expanded Union of 25.
A related issue concerns the budgetary powers of this Parliament, where different suggestions have been tabled to increase and decrease the role of Parliament in this area.
I am pleased to note that this week Minister Cowen, as President-in-Office, is making an official visit to the Middle East, where I am confident he will make every effort to move forward the peace process in that region.
Ireland is particularly well placed to improve relations with our American friends and I hope that the Irish presidency will further strengthen and deepen relations between the Eruopean Union and the United States. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, before Christmas, the group chairmen were in Dublin to negotiate with the Irish Presidency.
We propose, as the main rule, that decisions must be made by 75% of the countries in the Council of Ministers, with all the countries being equal and having one vote each.
The 75% must also represent half of the voters.
This is out of particular consideration for the most populous countries, but we also propose that special account be taken of all the electorates: all the EU countries, both large and small, should have the right of veto on really vital matters.
This is a sustainable compromise which combines the democratic principle that the voters always have the last word with efficient international decision-making.
Parliamentary democracy must not be ignored.
Without majority decisions, however, the result is permanent discussions of practical issues too, in relation to which all the countries have a common interest in its being possible, as a general rule, for them to vote their way to solutions.
The draft Convention has neglected to satisfy parliamentary democracy in our Member States, and it will, therefore, scarcely be possible to agree to such democracy in the form of fair referendums, with full information supplied.
Instead of organising a second referendum in Ireland if the electorate votes no, you should involve the other countries in the demand that the draft Constitution be voted on in referendums in all the countries and, preferably, on the same day throughout the EU.
Dear Irish Presidency, we look forward to cooperating with you and will offer our affectionate, critical, constructive and democratic opposition. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council may find it strange that I should be welcoming the Irish Republic's presidency today, but I know that he will understand my intention because he is going to be so busy over the next six months that we will not have to tolerate his presence at meetings in Northern Ireland.
The new President-in-Office of the Council has said that he would not tolerate having any members of the IRA/Sinn Fein in the Dublin Government, but insists that we tolerate them if we are to have a government in Northern Ireland as part of the United Kingdom.
I well understand his forced optimism today regarding the new constitutional proposal but agree with the last speaker that the Union should decide on this democratically, with every part of that Union holding a referendum to decide on the issue so that the people can voice their opinion.
There must be no cover-up and the problem must be addressed directly by this Parliament and the European Union.
The people whom I represent in this House were sadly disappointed and very angry at the attitude the government headed by the President-in-Office has shown to the fishing industry.
Taoiseach, Minister Roche, Ambassador Anderson, I join colleagues in welcoming you here this morning, particularly on behalf of my Irish colleagues in the PPE-DE Group.
Our presence here, as well as yours, Mr President, in the chair of this august assembly, sends a huge signal to all small Member States that the systems and the processes in Europe allow the smallest of nations to come to the top in the right circumstances.
I am extremely proud of your presence in the chair and of the Taoiseach's presence here as President of the Council of the European Union for the coming six months.
Facts please, Taoiseach, specifics please, no more wish lists, because this is the eighth time I have sat here listening to this at the start of a presidency and I find it very hard at the end of every presidency to see what difference has actually been made in relation to the Lisbon Strategy.
Please tell us before you go today exactly what you intend to do to make the Lisbon goals a reality during your watch.
The Irish presidency must concentrate on a sound framework for European research and innovation.
I would like to acknowledge the historic period of enlargement which will happen under your watch and welcome into the Community our ten new Member States with their considerable scientific enterprise and research skills, which must be harnessed and developed to full capacity.
Two-thirds of Europe's workforce are currently employed in enterprises employing less than 250 people.
As such, these SMEs are the driving force of European job creation.
If you are sincere in what you are saying in advocating for the rest of Europe a knowledge-based economy, perhaps you could start by ensuring that our Irish universities and third-level institutions are adequately funded to allow access to the greatest possible number of young people.
There are 40 speakers still to speak in this debate and the vote is due to take place at noon.
I wish you and the Irish Government well with the very onerous agenda which it falls to you to push forward.
The most important issue, as you, Taoiseach, and every other speaker emphasised, is the draft Constitution.
Europe needs this constitution, which would make the Union more democratic, more socially engaged and more comprehensible to its citizens and would enable us to play a more positive role on the world stage.
Another key issue is the Lisbon process.
There is no time to go into detail on that issue, but it will be an example of a serious commitment by the Irish Government if it were to drop its opposition to the Temporary Agency Workers Directive, which will help to develop a flexible and adaptable workforce if we address this issue in the correct way.
Servicing debt costs the poorest countries more than they receive in development aid.
A human development approach to debt sustainability with highly indebted countries would mean that the first call on poor countries' government resources would be expenditures needed to meet the Millennium Development Goals.
I know the Irish Government is committed to that issue as a government adopting the Irish approach, but I would ask you to put that onto the agenda for the other Member States in Europe and seek to ensure progress is made on it during your six months in office.
Your varied and complex programme indicates that there is now a programmatic for Europe, a common heritage of ideas and objectives that will increasingly make the Union a necessary institution for Europe and the whole world.
First of all, this programmatic requires that we should have the rules and institutions that will enable us to achieve our common objectives and, even before that, it requires that trust should be restored in the grand design for the integration of Europe.
In recent months we have seen too many signs of a selfish attitude towards the European adventure, reducing the Union to a self-service institution in which each country periodically reassesses its membership on the basis of its own short-term goals.
The breach of the Stability and Growth Pact by France and Germany, which ECOFIN permitted on 25 November, or the vetoes from all sides that prevented the European constitution from being adopted are just the most blatant examples of a kind of Euro-selfishness that must be firmly stamped upon straight away, before everything becomes more difficult in the Europe of 25.
I am sure I can say that Parliament is with you in wanting to achieve this Constitution, based to a great extent on the work of the Convention, as soon as possible.
It is with the primary purpose of giving new impetus to the grand design for Europe that I should like to raise two points about your programme of work.
The first is the scant attention paid to cohesion policies, and the second is the urgent need to develop true physical integration for Europe, promoting mobility everywhere within its area through the implementation of the European transport network.
The cohesion of the whole of Europe and the involvement of all the regions in the sustainable European process are an expression of that solidarity which I believe is fundamental if European citizens are to identify with the process that we are carrying forward. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Irish Presidency is very welcome.
We have high expectations, because we know that small countries such as Ireland are usually able to provide effective and energetic Presidencies.
The Italian Presidency neglected to criticise the enormous human rights violations taking place in Chechnya.
Now, we expect some plain speaking to be directed to Russia on this fundamental issue of human rights for the civilian population of Chechnya.
For example, you could have mentioned the importance of quickly obtaining sound chemicals legislation and of cooperating with Parliament on this issue.
The importance of giving more impetus to the climate negotiations is, in itself, referred to, but the EU has an enormous task in this area over the next six months when the Kyoto Protocol is in danger of collapsing.
Other major issues are the Carthagena Protocol and the biodiversity conference in Kuala Lumpur, where important decisions are going to be taken on trade involving genetically engineered products.
The currency union and the Stability and Growth Pact face a serious economic and political crisis.
You are also an example to the new Member States, in that you made a success of your own accession, both for your own people and for the whole of Europe.
As regionalists and representatives of stateless peoples, we expect from Ireland more understanding for our aspirations towards autonomy and maintaining our own identity, as towards direct participation in European decision-making.
Whether we are Scotland, Wales, the Basque country, Catalonia, Galicia or Flanders, we expect the same level of respect from the EU as the Baltic States or the Scandinavian countries.
Ireland boasts long experience in the dialogue with the peoples of the Middle East and as a donor and partner of the countries in Africa, but the millennium agenda should be incorporated more effectively in our day-to-day goals, also as a European Union.
Finally, I hope that sustainable development will not remain an empty shell where it involves our own European policy on sugar, cotton or rice, for that is what we will be judged on. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are inheriting a European Union that is in quite a pitiful state, which has, throughout 2003, shown itself to be fundamentally incapable of responding to the major external and internal challenges faced by the people of Europe.
The policy followed since the Maastricht Treaty has failed.
The greatest danger for Europe, Mr President, for the Lisbon process and for growth and employment, I am sorry to say, is my former compatriot, Mr Trichet.
Your Presidency will be judged not on the Constitution, you can be sure, but on your ability to make the European currency work for the European economy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Irish Presidency is today taking on the onerous task of continuing with the Intergovernmental Conference and trying to bring together positions that do not simply differ on technical points, but also due to reasons associated with the concept of sovereignty.
You said just now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the new Constitution should meet the expectations of citizens and enable the EU to play a more coherent role in the world.
We need to explain this issue clearly to citizens and, with this in mind, we urge the Irish Presidency to start doing this, to publicly and accurately set out the IGC’s points of agreement and disagreement.
Of course, this would not prejudge the outcome, as we are well aware that there is no agreement on anything as long as there is not agreement on everything, but it would at least allow us to begin a genuine debate and seriously inform citizens.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your answers would really fuel the debate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Taoiseach, I should like to begin by wishing the Irish presidency success in its work over the coming six months.
You have set out a number of important priorities for action in the period ahead, not least that of kick-starting the Lisbon agenda on economic reform and competitiveness.
Ireland has made great economic strides in recent years, but throughout the Union there remains a reluctance to embrace genuine economic reform.
I was pleased to note in the press this week that the Commission wishes to take forward the liberalisation of the internal market in services.
Such issues are worth tackling in the short to medium term but, as regards the long term, EU Member States need to be more ambitious in their approach.
However, my enthusiasm is tempered by the reality that liberalisation in areas such as medicine, legal and fiscal advice and employment agencies, whilst worthy, is essentially a distraction from the big picture of further liberalisation in the telecommunications, energy and financial services sectors.
I urge the Taoiseach to exert his influence over the Union's agenda in the months ahead to promote real and lasting economic reform.
If he sets the agenda, he will have our full and enthusiastic support.
On the question of the draft Constitution, which came to grief at Brussels last December, I would simply say this: our view has always been that the draft Constitution was moving the EU in the wrong direction.
I would in any case like to ask the Taoiseach, in the light of the collapse of the talks, to answer one very specific question.
We all need to have urgent clarification on that. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we can fully endorse two remarks about the draft Constitution and the Intergovernmental Conference made by the President-in-Office of the Council.
Nevertheless, the draft Constitution is more than just a starting point – it is balanced, fair, and contains all the key elements for a solution.
That is why it is included in the draft Constitution, and not to give any Member State an edge.
Your second comment, Mr President-in-Office, was that you want to move ahead swiftly.
You want to report back in March and we fully support that aim.
On this point, Mr Poettering, I agree with you for once.
Mr President-in-Office, you expressed your conviction that the European Union needs a Constitution.
However, we do not need any old Constitution; we need the Convention’s proposed text.
The world and the new challenges it brings is not going to wait for Europe.
If I may, I would also like to address Mr Poettering.
I am very happy to hear you speak out so clearly in favour of a Commission President from the ranks of the social democrats. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the tone of the debate in this House is clear: most of us want to assist the Irish presidency to reach a quick settlement on the Constitution through our political contacts, and with our experience of these questions we can provide both practical and moral support.
The manner in which the new Commission President is chosen will serve as a further way of restoring political faith in Europe.
It is not simply a question of finding a single candidate.
All the party political groups should find their own champion, and the procedure provided for by the Convention could easily and simply be brought into early use by us all in June and July. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Irish Presidency faces a number of challenges.
Straightaway, we find ourselves, unacceptably, blackmailed by the so-called ‘Gang of Six’, which aims to limit the Community budget to 1% of the Community’s gross national product, following the lack of agreement at the Brussels Summit on the new Draft Constitutional Treaty.
There is a danger that the new financial perspective will undermine what ought to be urgent priorities, such as jobs with rights, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, and cooperation and development with developing countries.
The second challenge I wish to highlight is the much-needed review of the Stability Pact, which has been shown to be out of step with economic and social reality.
Debate is ongoing regarding the evaluation of current economic and monetary policies, especially the introduction of the single currency and the over-valuation of the euro, while the current economic climate amply illustrates the structural shortcomings of the policy that has been pursued and the need for a root and branch review.
It is also essential that we amend what is known as the Lisbon Strategy, in order to achieve high-quality public services and to foster effective social inclusion.
As you yourself know, Taoiseach, those in Ireland who are critical of the EU are so mainly because of the military implications of this Constitution.
These relate in particular to military aspects, including structured cooperation, but also to the issue of the Euratom Treaty, which clearly must come to an end, especially for a country which is anti-nuclear.
It would be a terrible blow to the democratic process if the people of Europe were not asked their opinion on this matter.
The privilege we have in Ireland should be extended to all Member States.
Let the Irish presidency be a constructive and positive one.
You briefly mentioned environmental issues and you should take this opportunity to ensure that all the outstanding complaints against Ireland in relation to breaches of EU law are addressed and resolved.
Regarding the Middle East, I would urge Minister Cowen, who is going there today, to raise the concerns of many Members of this Parliament.
However, it is clear from the Irish programme that with or without the Constitution, this presidency intends to pursue a deeply integrationist agenda.
From the common fisheries policy to the Stability and Growth Pact, the whole system is mired in failure.
We have in common much more than we might have imagined in the past, perhaps because a large part of the Europe present here today is of Italian or Irish extraction.
In New York and America we took our chance to find peace and our daily bread, freedom and work.
With the Vatican-inspired vetoes on research freedom, Europe is again threatened with losing an extremely dangerous amount of our countries’ culture, industry and civilisation.
Mr President-in-Office, President of the Commission, change your tack!
My best wishes, then, but please choose the road towards a Europe of freedom and reform and not the one towards counter-reform and obscurantism! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, we are delighted to welcome the Irish decision to endeavour to build a safer Europe, one which is ever closer to the citizens and which at last has its first constitution, the fruit of the Convention’s labours.
You, Mr President-in-Office, will have our staunch support to reach these goals.
When, at the beginning of this year, you attacked the Italian Presidency, although you had praised it in your official speeches, you confirmed your intention of taking part yourself in the Italian election campaign.
The procedures for choosing commissioners from the enlargement countries, the opinion on Turkey, the submission of the Union’s financial perspective and the support you have announced for the signing of the constitutional treaty all require stability and a President whose commitments lie only in Brussels and Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office and Mr President, I am very pleased that the Taoiseach and his ministers are here today and that they hold the presidency of Europe at this particularly crucial time.
Because of the failure to establish agreement on the new European Constitution during the previous presidency, their first main task is to reach that agreement.
I hope they will, because there is a clear need for a long-term constitutional framework for the new Europe of 25 countries, which may well become even larger during this decade.
A two-speed or a two-tier Europe will not succeed in meeting the aspirations of our peoples.
Mr President-in-Office, the work you and your government have done, and are still doing, for peace in Northern Ireland is outstanding.
The principles at the heart of the European Union can therefore solve conflict anywhere in the world because those three principles are also at the heart of our agreement in Northern Ireland.
Accordingly, given our history of success in conflict resolution in Europe, would it not be a very good thing if, during the Irish presidency, you were to persuade the Commission to set up a special department of peace and reconciliation so that, instead of sending armies to areas of conflict, a team of people equipped with the European Union's philosophy and principles is dispatched to those areas, since today we are in a stronger position to shape the world?
The way to do that is to transport the philosophy of the European Union to areas of conflict: dialogue developed there will enable agreement to be reached accordingly. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, you face major challenges over the next six months, partly in connection with the constitutional Treaty.
Shortly before the Intergovernmental Conference, the Italian Presidency came up with a proposal to add – and I quote – ‘the principle of equality between men and women’ to Article 2 of the constitutional Treaty.
It is, and must continue to be, a fundamental value in the EU, just as the other values – human dignity, democracy etc – are not merely principles but fundamental values.
I shall produce the proposal for you, in writing and in English. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to begin by congratulating the Commission on fulfilling its responsibility with regard to judicially demanding compliance with the Stability Pact.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we expect a lot from the next six months and fully agree with the political priorities set and your commitment, which you have repeated this morning, to the European Constitution.
We believe it is necessary to confront a process of reforms for the economic and social modernisation of the Union, to guarantee freedom, security and justice for the people who live or reside in it, and finally, to define more profound relations with the United States, in order to combat the new threats to our democracies and our fundamental rights more effectively.
Ireland is a good example of what solidarity in the Union should be, and that solidarity is best expressed through our policy of economic and social cohesion.
My country, Spain, also aspires to achieving real convergence with the European Union average because, according to our political philosophy, the aim is not to create permanently subsidised societies, but that our level of development must contribute to the internal economic balance of the Union.
The new countries must be pressured by this presidency to continue the reforms necessary for their successful integration into the Union.
Frankly, without a reform of our decision-making structures, enlargement will break the Union – it is as simple as that.
Key to that is the Lisbon process, which is running out of steam, hamstrung as it is by a surfeit of generalities, a lack of specific targets, and by the Member States' failure to implement what they have agreed to.
In particular, this presidency must take forward the report by Wim Kok.
My question to the President-in-Office is very specific: how do you intend to take forward Wim Kok's very important report?
My request, therefore, since you have a particular understanding of what it means to defend the identity of a people and a country in Europe, is that the European Constitution, which you have committed yourself to promoting, should take account of the rights of these peoples, their languages, their cultures and also the constitutional regions.
There are many references for it and many reasons to defend it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, in the six month period starting now, during which Ireland is taking over the Presidency of the Council, there are two important events: the historic unification of Europe with the accession of ten new countries on 1 May and the European elections next June in our twenty-five Member States.
The events of the next six months will surely be dominated by the continuance of the Intergovernmental Conference, which is responsible for preparing a new constitution for Europe after the failure of the Brussels summit in December.
It is clear that the European Union will be in a better position to welcome these new members if it already has a constitution.
You were pragmatic, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you recently spoke out against the idea of setting a final deadline for reaching an agreement on the future constitutional treaty.
I have therefore quite understood your desire to make every effort to encourage the decision-making process, because institutional confusion should not cause us to forget the historic event of the ten new Member States joining the EU, countries that have largely proved themselves worthy of joining a Community of value and freedom.
I hope that the Irish Presidency and all the Member States of the EU will tackle this problem and try to mobilise citizens by organising a European debate giving them a real choice between the different options available to Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my first remarks are addressed to an absent colleague, which I am sure is due to his packed schedule.
First of all, let me say that the European elections take place on 13 June.
I am not certain that the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be the strongest group in the House after the elections.
Whoever becomes the next Commission President, however, will need broad support in this House and will only receive broad support in this House if he, or she, has the Group of the Party of European Socialists on his, or her, side.
Let me repeat a point I made in our last debate: this is not the fault of one Member State, but rather the fault of many Member States.
For this reason, then, I also ask you to be the President-in-Office who finally takes this issue seriously.
I would be very grateful if you could come back to this point in your reply. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, last year was a miserable year for Europe, and the challenge is now to restore the confidence in the institutions and in the agreements that they have concluded.
This confidence will also be reflected in the turnout for the European Parliament elections in June.
We are looking for a new President of the Commission, and we are looking for an independent, energetic person with the backing of a majority in the new Parliament.
Secondly, confidence can be restored by effective intervention in cross-border problems.
This is what the public expect from us.
Major epidemics are a case in point.
In any case, I am confident that this presidency can restore confidence in the institutions, and your inspired speech of today only encourages me in this. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too am delighted that the Irish Presidency is prioritising the objective of reuniting the peoples of Europe, after divergences on key points of the Convention’s proposal led to its collapse in Brussels.
The June elections must not be allowed to widen the split in the Union, but must instead give a new democratic boost to pro-European feeling.
Parliament wants to get back on course towards a constitution straight away, and appreciates the commitment to reconvene the Intergovernmental Conference and to act transparently, for the sake of closer and closer relations between the Union’s institutions and its citizens.
We also share the multilateral position for a common foreign and defence policy, for a solid partnership with the United States, for the reaffirmation of the United Nations and for the resumption of international trade talks.
Public opinion is, however, concerned about the future.
The spring Council will report the successes that have been achieved, but there is also the risk that the social model will be weakened without Europe’s economy becoming any more competitive in the world.
The attack on this bureaucratic language and culture could consist of abolishing bureaucratic forms and replacing texts of regulations by modern, understandable and citizen-friendly text.
Secondly, we could use an action network of national public organisations and national MPs as a contribution to the Irish conference in April in order to bring language and culture closer to the citizen.
Thirdly, over the next few months, we ought to use TV commercials as a means of explaining, in straightforward language, to citizens in all European countries what the core message of Europe is: safety on the streets, global safety, protection of the environment, more democracy and less bureaucracy.
We need to bring down the number of pages of regulations from 80&#160;000 to 50&#160;000 and reduce the number of types of decisions from 23 to 6 in a bid to achieve clear, result-oriented and democratic governance.
In this case, prevention is better than cure.
Let us keep low what can be kept low and small-scale what can be done on a small scale, with the national parliaments as watchdogs.
For the rest, I would urge you to support the European Commission to maintain the rules at the Court, but also in the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact in order to bring about more European growth despite the hard euro.
The Naples agreement is an important step along the way towards a broad European safety policy.
Enlargement by the addition of ten countries in the absence of a Constitution is an insult to the European citizens, for they must be central in this year of rejoicing for Europe – and the way in which you have worded your work programme leads me to have complete confidence in you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to wish the Irish Presidency luck and congratulate it on the slogan it has chosen, ‘Europeans – Working Together’, which is what we really need in order to confront the problems we are faced with.
The Irish Presidency is very well situated, given the competitiveness the European Union requires, to take the path of the Lisbon Summit.
The European Union is a Community of law, and the rules only make sense if they are accompanied by the obligation for everybody, large and small, to comply with them.
We believe that it is also very well situated to confront relations between the European Union and United States, and in order to try to somehow transform the discord of the past into the harmony of the present and future.
My political group saw this when we visited Dublin.
You are going to tackle the EU’s real problems, quietly but with determination.
The necessary stability is set up as orthodoxy, while the United States are recovering growth through entirely unorthodox methods.
The Irish Presidency is now proposing going back to basics.
The spring summit should concentrate on the fundamental issues, growth and employment, which should become the EU’s prime ambitions.
However, there is a nagging question still to be answered: where is the money, where are the budgets to give Europe the resources to fulfil its ambition?
It amounts to less than 1% of the gross European product.
It would be a good idea for the Presidency to propose new own resources, for example a European tax on carbon dioxide emissions, or a tax at source on savings products rather than the bureaucratic system envisaged in Feira.
That would create more growth while unburdening national budgets.
That is all very well.
He cannot expect the citizens of Europe to buy a pig in a poke. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, an exciting six months lie ahead of you, with enlargement, the Constitution and the Spring Summit.
I hope that the Christmas period, the presidency handover and the start of a new year have been used as an opportunity to take stock, have given you insight, and that you are ready to move away from a veto-happy intergovernmental two-speed Europe towards a stronger community-focused Europe; from failure to respect Community law – notably the Stability and Growth Pact – to active implementation of Community rules and rulings – we welcome the Commission’s lawsuit; from the nationalisation of European policies towards more Europe-focused domestic policy; away from a culture of blaming the EU to a willingness to share responsibilities; from the end of the moratorium on human embryo research to an agreement on the limits; away from the system of dodging issues and procrastinating towards taking decisions about the directives on the agenda (I am thinking of the Transparency Directive, the Directive on competition in public services, the Takeovers Directive, President-in-Office); away from continuing the new populist debate on the Statute of Members to a decision.
You still have 30 hours to reply to the European Parliament’s request for a timetable.
Move away from the negative atmosphere that often prevails between the Council, Commission and Parliament towards establishing discussions and public relations which are citizen-friendly, optimistic, honest, which make use of the opportunities offered by enlargement, the Constitution, growth and employment, stability, the internal market, competition and subsidiarity.
I ask you to make this about-turn, and in doing so, give our priorities a new direction. &#160;&#160; – Mr President-in-Office, I should first of all like to express my greatest respect for the difficult task that your Presidency has ahead of it.
Therefore, the message we should like you to pass on to all the governments in Europe is both simple and clear: accept the responsibility for giving Europe a constitution before the European elections.
The fact that the Convention succeeded in drawing up a constitutional text that was also widely supported by this Parliament shows that political and geographical differences are not an insurmountable obstacle.
You must vigorously oppose the antihistorical conflict between national interests and Europe, because that is a disease that can rot away the strongest reasons for our staying together.
I am asking because Parliament has so far been asking the Council about this in vain. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, if I have understood the President-in-Office’s speech correctly, I think I perceive a vision behind it which allows us to preserve the momentum from the Intergovernmental Conference.
I think we have to see whether there is indeed still a chance of reaching a decision before the European elections.
It will be very difficult to sustain public awareness of what has been agreed by the Convention and the Intergovernmental Conference thus far, but not been formally recorded, until December of this year.
Consequently, citizens will not be voting for the Commission President in the European elections, there will be no such mandate given and no participation for the national parliaments.
Instead, a defence union will be formed outside the framework of the European Union, with all that entails for NATO, the transatlantic alliance and access for all European Member States of the European Union.
We also need an appropriate balance between large and small states.
I think that the large states of Spain and Poland, which are so important to the European Union, must be treated with proper consideration, but they must also be made aware that they share responsibility for ensuring that the European Union continues to develop.
I trust your diplomatic skills will produce an appropriate response from these countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, there are two issues I would like to raise.
At the same time the Italians flatter themselves that they reached agreement on 95% of the issues.
The other issue is the Statute for Members.
We must be mindful of the link between the travel expenses rules and salary.
If unanimous agreement on the Constitutional Treaty cannot be achieved, then the only alternative is the creation of a two-speed Europe.
A two-speed Europe already exists in at least two areas: namely the Schengen Agreement and the single currency.
Schengen allowed for full implementation in the countries subscribing to the Single Act, especially as regards the free movement of persons.
Fundamental to the dream of the founding fathers of our Union, 50 years ago, was the imperative to cede national sovereignty in exchange for the greater sovereignty of a united continent.
It also involves investing more in training and further training for individuals.
This is the only way that people will be willing to contribute to the social side of this process of economic modernisation.
We could add Kashmir, another place where the European Union is being asked to support what appears to be limited between India and Pakistan.
I understand that the Commission has put in some very good work, but the Council or certain Council members have protested and vetoed it.
More generally speaking, however, rather than simply ignoring this trouble spot, the European Union needs to do more on both sides to drive the peace process forward.
Just a little while ago, we did see the Geneva plan, which also caused a certain amount of positive unease in Israel because those in favour of peace now also have something on which to build.
The northernmost Member States have been genuinely in favour of both the Internal Market and enlargement.
Sometimes it seems that the further we move away from the EU’s heartland towards its geographical outer periphery the more sincere the Community spirit and greater the imagination for building a common Europe.
Promoting economic growth and keeping on top of the Lisbon Agenda will be the most important issues during Ireland’s presidential term.
All the projects agreed at EU level are ready, but the Member States have still not internalised the need for the structural changes the strategy calls for.
The Stability and Growth Pact is beginning to creak.
If the country holding the presidency had difficulties finding points to get to grips with in the Competitiveness Council earlier on, here they are now on a plate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, you have rightly placed emphasis on meeting the expectations of our peoples.
The one aspect of the European Union for which there is any enthusiasm is the single market, but British farmers and businessmen have always suspected that the odds were deliberately stacked against them because certain Member States simply ignored the rules.
The notion that the Constitution was essential for an enlarged Union is clearly a myth.
Finally, Mr President-in-Office, you rightly emphasise your intention to focus on practical human rights issues.
I would ask you to respond to Parliament's demands on this matter. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today you have unambiguously declared yourself in favour of multilateralism.
I do not think many presidents-in-office have begun by speaking out so clearly in favour of multilateralism and the United Nations in this House.
Moreover, I believe that the challenges we will be discussing in great detail over the coming weeks – international terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, disintegrating states, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings – are too much for even the world’s strongest nation to tackle alone.
The European Union is not ready to put up a united front against the United Nations system.
We have a Commission office in New York.
We need this Constitution to enable the European Union to obtain this legal status and act in this sphere as well.
Consequently, both for the purposes of external relations and in terms of working within the United Nations system, where the European Union is the greatest contributor, we need to increase our political influence and express our political strength together.
There are two other issues dear to my heart that I should like to bring to your attention: air transport safety and air passengers’ rights.
Just as inexplicably stuck, Mr President-in-Office, is a measure that this Parliament approved by an overwhelming majority: greater protection for air passengers if they are denied boarding or in the event of cancellations or delays.
I am aware that your government, Mr President-in-Office, was opposed to this measure, but I cannot criticise that because you have always held a consistent position; I am referring instead to those strange, last-minute changes of mind.
I am sure that, in your new garb as President-in-Office of the Council, you will be able to further these measures and bring them to a conclusion, because they are in the interests of the European public and our fellow citizens are awaiting them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I now raise a different point for the Taoiseach.
This measure will give them some new hope of earlier treatment.
I remind you of the inextricable link between health and poverty and urge you to ensure renewed momentum on health and clean water policies, and on debt relief.
It is fundamental to the health and safety of our people.
It has just 90 inspectors covering the globe and I ask the presidency to look carefully at that to see how this corner of Ireland, with its EU-wide implications, can be made more effective. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with all those who have said that the Irish Presidency’s most important task is to secure the adoption of a Constitution which is as close as possible to the Convention proposal.
Mr President-in-Office, you mentioned research policy, which is a very important subject.
We have to do more on this front, especially in comparison to the United States.
The EU is spending EUR 2.25 billion over four years under the Sixth Framework Programme, and even adding in everything done in the Member States, the figures are a great deal lower.
This is the main reason why young medics and researchers are still migrating to the United States.
Unfortunately, no agreement was reached on the subject under the Italian Presidency.
The political responsibility lies with the Council of Ministers, and I call on you to respect this. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, speaking as a Swedish Conservative, I welcome the Irish Presidency.
With enlargement occurring during your Presidency, the EU will increase in importance and its words will count for more.
In spite of what was said at the last EU-Russia summit, I now appeal to you and the Irish Presidency to make use of the confidence you enjoy and to exploit the European Union’s growing importance by taking the initiative to promote a genuine peace dialogue between the parties involved in the war in Chechnya with a view to bringing the atrocities to an end.
It is an abomination for both Russia and Europe, and the war may have far-reaching consequences for peace in our part of the world.
I should like to thank the honourable Members for their comments on the Irish presidency programme, and for their support and good wishes for the success of the Irish presidency.
I have listened closely to the speeches by over 40 Members in today's debate and they confirm my belief not only that this is a challenging time for the Union, but also that if Member States and the institutions work together it ought to be a time of great opportunity for the Union.
If we feel that there is a real prospect of agreement, we will spare no effort to facilitate the earliest possible agreement, and the support of Parliament will be of particular importance.
I have a few remarks on what Members have said.
We welcome the new Member States to the Union.
I went into that in some detail at the outset.
I have noted carefully the many points raised by Members and I would like to thank my Irish colleagues in particular for the important points they raised.
I want to put on record today that these are values that we share and that we will gear our presidency towards values that are not only important in themselves and fundamental to the vision of Europe, but also essential to the successful functioning of the Union.
We might not always succeed in meeting the high standards we have set ourselves, but I want to pledge to you that these values respect, belief, solidarity, honesty and unity are good values, and I certainly will remember them and repeat them to my colleagues, who will be speaking here over the next six months.
I can say that, as far as we are concerned, the work of President Prodi and his colleagues in preparing for the presidency over many months has been extremely important to us.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for that.
Working together during the Irish presidency and beyond, Parliament, the Council and the Commission 'can look forward to a time when hope and history rhyme'.
He stressed that point several times in his contribution.
Parliament can rely on the Irish presidency to do precisely that.
The Union will continue, during our presidency, to express serious concern at the building of the so-called 'security fence'.
The Irish Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his presidency capacity, will be in the Middle East tonight, engaged in discussions.
The human rights situation in many parts of Africa will continue to give cause for concern and will receive our continued attention.
There are many facets to this since the causes of conflict in Africa and elsewhere are diverse.
The recent agreement in the Council on the African peace facility is an important step forward in Europe's engagement with that continent.
We will assist in the development of African peacekeeping capabilities and this presidency will press for early EU action on implementing the commitments made by Member States, with a view to meeting the millennium goals.
A number of Members have raised the issue of debt relief.
I think you know what the Irish position is on that; but, to reiterate, the Irish presidency position is that the European Union has been an enormously generous donor for debt relief purposes.
This is a considerable success and we will use whatever opportunities arise during our presidency to promote debt relief.
I was asked by a number of speakers to be precise about the Lisbon Strategy.
Clearly, because of the economic situation in Europe and elsewhere in the world, progress on implementing the strategy has not been possible to the extent hoped for by António Guterres four years ago when he was here.
I am reminded that the Social Charter was brought in 14 years ago when I was President of the Social Affairs Council.
Everyone except two speakers spoke on the IGC.
Admittedly, a minority of those who spoke would like me to forget about it altogether, but about 95% took the opposing view.
The reason I am not overstating what the Irish presidency can do is that I cannot carry this through alone.
The work done by the European Convention last summer, which you can all rightly feel proud of, and the post-Naples work concluded towards the end of November and in early December represents the initial position of the Irish presidency.
On other issues agreement has not yet been reached, so that will be our starting point.
It will be far more difficult to finalise the Constitution.
If we work together – Parliament, the Commission and the Irish presidency – and try to get people to shift their positions sooner rather than later, we can complete this task.
If we do not, it will become a long, drawn-out issue. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the speech Bertie has made makes my job much easier, because the Presidency and the Commission are in complete agreement.
The Dublin meeting laid the foundations for close cooperation and the essential points he has put forward are shared by the Commission.
In the very few minutes available to me I should like to recall a number of aspects that are of the greatest political significance: first, an appeal for a general effort to support political pluralism.
The speech made about the United Nations and the role it should have and the urgent call for human rights must be the basis for our future work; on this we agree.
It was also extremely important to mention the strong, positive relationship between the United States and Europe, and it is interesting that the whole of Parliament accepted that, while adding that the relationship should be on an equal footing.
You must be aware that these Commissioners – you are well aware of this – will only be here for a few months because after that they will have to be nominated.
I can assure you that the results so far have been quite flattering: the governments of the various states have been sending us people who have held or still hold the highest political offices in their countries.
Any attempt to move in a different direction is doomed to failure, doomed to produce no results, and I believe the way in which Bertie Ahern has approached this challenge is the best we can hope for and is the most likely to succeed.
Lastly, I should like to mention the matter of Lisbon.
We need human resources at all levels: at a national level in compulsory and university education, and at European Union level in top-level research.
We cannot achieve the results outlined in Lisbon when we realise that 400&#160;000 European researchers are currently working in the United States – I repeat, 400&#160;000 European researchers are currently working in the United States – and when we realise that, if we want to achieve the Lisbon objectives, we will have to raise the number of our researchers by 700&#160;000 over ten years, or we shall not achieve the Lisbon objectives.
On several occasions – in my speech a moment ago and at other times – I have proposed that major laboratories should be set up; we have even included this item in the financial perspective; we have also talked about the European Science Foundation to be able to coordinate cutting-edge research, for otherwise this research will not achieve the results we want.
This is a democratic principle, and so it was the Commission’s duty to call for the rule to be obeyed, but at the same time it has also been the Commission’s duty to prepare the changes needed for the future.
I have very often been generous in this direction, ladies and gentlemen – perhaps too much so – but the finance ministers have never given me any leeway in the matter.
After 50 years this Treaty promoting nuclear energy is obsolete.
I regret that the Convention avoided this issue, and particularly regret that the delegate from the Verts/ALE Group, Johannes Voggenhuber, neglected to make progress on it, being drawn instead by a grand design for a new constitution.
Ireland, a smaller country than Scotland, will be setting the agenda and leading the EU decision-making process, while Scotland does not even have a vote in the Council of Ministers.
Ireland will lead the process of welcoming ten new member states – many smaller than Scotland – into the EU.
I propose substituting legal framework for framework directive in order to be consistent with the previous vote and in order to give the chance of a positive vote in favour of the text of the constitutional treaty. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, on this issue of the liberalisation of the water market, we have a contradiction in the French text.
The French version is written in such a way that it seems that Amendment No 48 says that the water market needs to be liberalised without taking into account regional characteristics, while the English version says the opposite.
Those who wish to reject the liberalisation of the water market therefore vote for the original text, if they do not accept Amendment No 103.
They first have to vote on Amendment No 103, which rejects the liberalisation of the water market, and if Amendment No 103 is not passed, there remains the original text of Amendment No 48, the first part of which also rejects liberalisation. &#160;&#160; The services have noted the discrepancy and I can confirm that the English version is correct. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, now that we have voted on all the amendments to item 51, I would like to return to Amendment No&#160;36.
My group asked for a separate vote on Amendment No&#160;36.
Every other group has one vote, but the PPE-DE Group seems to have two votes on this.
This concern is even more disputable given that the Community tuna fleet is already the largest in the world and is using the whole world’s fish resources, including those of many poor countries.
The report is right to express concern about the reduction in tuna resources.
Competition, which causes waste and crises in all sectors of the economy, has even more disastrous consequences in the case of natural resources, which can be completely exhausted by fierce and irrational competition.
The only logical conclusion that can be drawn from this report is that a system based on competition is damaging and that the only sound way of managing natural resources would be to manage them collectively, in a planned manner.
Portugal accounts for 6% of EU tinned tuna production, which in turn represents around 40% of Portuguese tinned fish production.
This illustrates the importance of the tuna fleet and industry based in less developed, outlying regions that are highly dependent on the fisheries sector.
The sector has lost competitiveness in the face of pressure from foreign imports, as a result of bilateral and multilateral commercial agreements, and has also been adversely affected by the last reform of the common fisheries policy, which took place in December 2002.
I therefore endorse the main idea underpinning this report, namely that the Commission draw up a study on the state of tuna resources, the fleet and the industry as a whole, and subsequently present an action plan for the tuna sector that provides a global framework of structural aid and a plan to protect the sector against competition from third countries.
We have always advocated the need for compensation or consumption subsidies to support the canning sector and for monitoring imports, in order to ensure that imported fish meets the same criteria for food safety and quality as products from the Community industry. &#160;&#160; In spite of some sound efforts, current fisheries policy still means that the EU is buying the right to misuse the natural resources of the poor.
I have therefore chosen to vote against the aforesaid report in its entirety. &#160;&#160; .The aim of the report is to strengthen the few large fishing companies through economic and institutional measures in order to improve their competitiveness.
As excuses for this strengthening, the rapporteur cites the indisputably high nutritional value of the product, its economic value, employment, maintaining stocks etc.
These excuses conceal the fact that this activity concerns a few large companies in the ΕU and that the developed countries overexploit the world's marine wealth at the expense of poor and developing countries, in that the international fishing agreements are imbalanced, safeguarding as they do the rights of the strong.
The report concludes that Member States stand only to benefit if the EU decides to do more for this sector of the fishing industry.
It is impossible to argue with such a conclusion, in view of the Community tuna fleet and industry’s loss of competitiveness, along with the major contribution of these areas to the EU – the canning industry provides around 40&#160;000 jobs in the EU and tuna accounts for almost 60% of total tinned fish production.
Despite certain limitations and the fact that it does not go far enough, the regulation does contain some excellent proposals aimed at preserving the environment, such as monitoring biodegradability, and aimed at protecting consumers, who must be guaranteed information on the composition of products, lists of ingredients and effective labelling.
We therefore support the compromise amendments tabled to the report before us and endorsed by seven parliamentary groups.
Let us not forget that behind regulatory harmonisations there are always ulterior political motives towards greater market integration and the elimination of obstacles to the free movement of goods.
The disclosure of the composition of detergents is indeed a major step forward.
The proposed adaptations to the regulation in the longer term may be able to contribute to this.
It also draws attention to the need to protect such species and raises popular awareness of that need.
That has not happened, but, as what we have here is in any case a workable solution, I have voted in favour of it. &#160;&#160; .– Who could disagree with the general idea of protecting wild animal species, some of which are in danger of extinction?
How can proposals be made without calling into question the existing economic and social system, a system that is starving millions of human beings for whom bushmeat is often the only source of animal protein, particularly in tropical areas?
Under these circumstances, the methods of monitoring or retaliation proposed will be entirely ineffective in the majority of cases, particularly against organised gangs who carry out mass hunts, often for Western markets, and will affect only a few starving people.
Despite this, it is important for development cooperation, public health and the environment that awareness of this phenomenon should increase in Europe and that a policy on it should actually be adopted.
The population in the developing countries is growing fast, while scope for trade and transport is also increasing.
These days, this meat of monkeys, reptiles and snakes is not only consumed by poor local residents, but is also sold in African towns and even exported to Europe as a delicacy for the rich.
The term ‘bushmeat’, or wild animal meat, describes the food product of wild animals, the trade in which has had a devastating effect on the African Great Ape population.
UNEP and UNESCO established GrASP (Great Apes Survival Project) and there are many other organisations working to find ways to address the problem.
The EU has so far, however, paid only scant attention to the issue, as highlighted by the rapporteur.
On 12&#160;July 2000, the Committee on Petitions received a petition on the protection of species endangered by illegal hunting and trade, as part of a campaign against bushmeat.
By voting in favour, I am simply expressing my agreement that developing countries do indeed need greater support to ensure that, while local traditions are respected and particular account is taken of the shortage of food, we see greater rigour ... &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the report as soon as Parliament adopted Amendment No&#160;2, in which bushmeat is defined as meat from ‘wild animals in tropical areas’.
Regulated Swedish elk hunting and the illegal hunting of apes and other wild animals threatened with extinction occupy quite separate worlds. &#160;&#160; .– By adopting the Herzog report, the European Parliament has adopted some excellent statements on ‘the fundamental importance of the subsidiarity principle’ and on the need to respect the free choice of the Member States in terms of the missions, organisation and financing arrangements of services of general interest at national level (see paragraph 18).
The current French Government appears to have gone back to a more cautious position as, although it is still calling for a ‘cross-border legal instrument’, it wants to limit the content to a sharing of responsibilities between the Member States of the EU, authorised financing and monitoring procedures.
In our view, it is sufficient to state that services of general interest fall under the competence of the Member States, who choose their missions, their organisation and their limits. &#160;&#160; .– Despite all the concessions made by the author of the report to the reactionary political forces working for the privatisation of public services, he now seems to have been overcome by those whose support he wished to obtain.
We are opposed to this report and, of course, to the amendments that make it worse.
Moreover, the process set out in the report translates into drastic reductions in staff, in other words a social catastrophe.
On the pretext of harmonising practices between the different countries that make up the European Union, its authorities are creating a serious social decline.
Nevertheless, harmonisation could be done on the basis of development of the public services and expanding them, especially by building social housing, if the European institutions and the Member States were serving collective, rather than private, interests.
We therefore voted against this report. &#160;&#160; .– Driven by the socialist and social democrat political family, the notion of services of general economic interest was enshrined in the Treaty of Amsterdam (Article 16) at the heart of the principles on which the European Union is based.
As a step further, the European socialists resolutely committed themselves to defending and promoting services of general interest, as a fundamental aspect of our shared values and of our European social model.
We are asking for the missions, organisation and financing arrangements for services of general interest to be guaranteed and laid down in a framework directive, a commitment made by Parliament as a whole in November 2001 when it adopted the Langen report.
We want a democratic and pluralist evaluation of the social consequences of free competition to be conducted before there is any further liberalisation.
I therefore voted against this report without any uncertainty or hesitation. &#160;&#160; . – Introducing high-performance and efficient services of general interest for all, that is to say services which play a full role in social and territorial cohesion, means not only acknowledging and asserting that these services of general interest are an essential goal of Member States’ economic and social policies and among the fundamental elements of our European model of society, but also that we adopt and defend the basic principles that serve as the operational basis of these services of general interest, namely the universality of services, continuity, affordability and quality.
Without voting on these amendments on the requirement of a framework directive, I rejected the text at the final vote. &#160;&#160; . – The Herzog report attempted to reconcile the irreconcilable, championing liberalisation and defending services of general interest at the same time; hence the discordant voting.
The amended text is indefensible and I therefore voted against it. &#160;&#160; . – I voted against the motion for a resolution on services of general interest since the voting trends of the majority of MEPs do not give an objective picture of the consequences of the liberalisation undertaken to date.
Finally, we must guarantee the subsidiarity under which local or territorial powers are exercised.
This motion does not establish European services of general interest as an added value of the European structure but as a means of achieving the EU’s territorial, economic, ecological and social cohesion goals.
The report is fundamentally biased against the public sector and against the role of the State in the economy, as it is based on the false premise that it is ownership that determines good management.
The clear aim is to feed the most lucrative sectors and public services to the greed of the major economic and financial groups.
The report endorses and encourages the process of liberalisation/privatisation in various key sectors and abjectly glosses over the economic and social consequences, from quality and access to public services, to job losses in the targeted sectors.
Its clear aim is to put an end to the concept of public service and, in so doing, to alleviate the State’s burden of responsibility. &#160;&#160; We voted against the Herzog report, which shows once again that this Parliament is no more in favour of progress than are the Commission or the Council of the European Union.
The ultraliberal majority in Parliament introduced this report as a paean to the destruction of public services.
It is regrettable that the rapporteur, like a significant proportion of European socialists, chose to vote for this report because it opens up the prospect of a framework directive on services of general interest.
In this setting, only street-level activism on the largest scale can create a positive outlook in the face of the destruction of public services. &#160;&#160; This report is political trickery pure and simple because, in spite of the tragic comedy played out in this Chamber, right and left are basically on the same track, which is to say: destroy public services by forever subjecting them to Community competition law, a law which, as everyone knows, has always been the least discriminate instrument of the free market.
Resolutely opposed to the euroglobalist ideology that inspired this report, and which is itself a product of the shameful alliance of political federalism and economic ultraliberalism, the members of the were the only French members to clearly and coherently state their rejection of this new antinational and antisocial offensive against our public services. &#160;&#160; Trains used to run, planes used to fly, the post used to arrive, healthcare used to exist, schools used to teach and there was light, all thanks to national public services.
But the Commission of Brussels wants to privatise them, flying in the face of reason, fact and social concerns.
Intelligence takes a back seat as we slip from the glorious notion of services provided to the public, in the name of the common good and the , to the wretched concept of services provided by general interest.
Market integrationism flies in the face of facts when it refuses to see that private trains in Britain are derailing, that electricity in California is cutting out, that the planes of private airlines such as Flash Airlines are crashing and that American commercial schools are leaving souls helpless.
Social concerns are sacrificed because with liberalisation, there is two-tier access to healthcare, university, transport or even water: services for the rich and services for the poor.
This requires an entirely different course than that currently being pursued with the Green Paper on services of general interest, which makes Europe even more neo-liberal.
Despite the acknowledgment that certain services must be accessible and affordable for everyone because social coherence and solidarity depend upon them, there is hardly any part of the public sector that is sacrosanct.
There are some areas where I differ from my colleagues in the Socialist Group.
I believe that public radio and television broadcasters who play a major role in preserving cultural diversity and identity should be exempted from the competition rules.
The same should be the case for charitable organisations which carry out a public service.
The real problem here concerns the sharing of competences between the EU and the Member States.
I also endorse his view that social services of general interest that carry out social security and social inclusion functions should remain exempt from competition rules.
I support the idea that, in accordance with the Treaties and with the necessary respect for the principle of subsidiarity, the Community must be neutral in relation to Member States’ options on forms of property.
The proposed clarification of the concept of services of general economic interest and of criteria for distinguishing between categories of services of general interest must not be allowed to lead to greater centralisation or to artificial standardisation.
However, the EPLP believes there is a need for universality of service and for the protection of workers' rights and other social, environmental and economic benefits, both at the individual and the collective level.
To this end the EPLP has voted to support those amendments which focused on those areas.
These are necessary in order for market reform to complete the single market and to achieve the Lisbon goals. &#160;&#160; As a former pupil of the ‘Public Service’ department of the Institute of Political Studies in Paris, and as a local councillor specifically responsible for maintaining local public services, I do not think that the best way to preserve the notion of public service is to adopt a European framework directive, which would affect the freedom of Member States to define the tasks they intend to entrust to public services, in accordance with the wishes of their people.
It is unfortunate that the incoherent and contradictory text resulting from the vote on the Herzog report will not clarify the debate.
While it does have its good points, such as reiterating the ‘fundamental importance of the subsidiarity principle, in accordance with which the competent authorities of the Member State are free to make their choice of missions, organisation and financing arrangements for services of general interest’, at the same time it leaves open the possibility of imposing a uniform European definition of these services, which would deprive States of their regulatory power and would necessarily be inspired by a majority to whom the notion of public service is alien.
I endorse the rapporteur’s proposal to encourage patent-holder companies to grant licences that allow other companies to manufacture their products at lower cost; using safeguards in international trade agreements that can help governments to expand access to medicines and protect public health.
I welcome the goodwill of the international community and I urge our governments to enhance respectful partnership, specifically in the field of health.
Pregnancy is not an illness: children are a richness in developing countries.
It is deplorable. &#160;&#160; The subject is much debated, in as much as the very neoliberal tendencies of NEPAD raise legitimate questions among all those who dream of finally seeing Africa emerge from under-development.
I also support the criticisms made by the report, particularly with regard to the absence of democratic consultation of ‘civil society’, of unions and even of national parliaments.
Welcoming the Heads of State that established NEPAD to the G8 with great pomp is one thing, backing up words with actions is quite another.
Finally, the drafting of a legally restrictive framework accompanied by sanctions for businesses that contribute to conflicts would also be appropriate in preventing conflicts that are often murderous. &#160;&#160; NEPAD is without doubt a development project conceived and adopted by the African states, but it should not be looked upon as a project that will emancipate the African people.
Indeed, it is increasingly denounced, like the Cotonou Agreement, the WTO and the IMF’s structural adjustment policies, by sectors of civil society such as the Addis Ababa African Social Forum and the People’s Forum held in Siby in Mali in 2003.
The fact that NEPAD consulted the multinationals and the G8 rather than the African people says a lot about its idea of democracy.
The role of women in African society must also be brought to the fore in development projects.
I particularly welcome this report, as I have striven for a new perspective on Africa, a new perspective on a forgotten continent and a perspective of fraternity and solidarity towards a brother Continent. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, as a citizen of Venice who has therefore inherited a strong historical, cultural and linguistic identity – I recall the Most Serene Venetian Republic – I hope that all the countries in the European Union will adopt policies aimed at devolving the competences of the state to the regions, especially policies on state-sector education, culture and the protection of cultural assets.
We believe that it is precisely our cultural diversity and cultural identities that form the major attraction of this Europe, which should not try to centralise but should leave room for the regionalisms and identities of all the peoples it embraces.
For them, it is vital that the devolution policy sponsored by the current Italian Government should be adopted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are committed to safeguarding cultural diversity in the Union and to promoting a pluralistic media.
However, we abstained on the proposals set out simply because we believe that they are largely inoperable and that other instruments can be used in order to achieve our objectives.
Last week in Bayonne, people were ejected from a court of law and sprayed with tear gas because they had dared to speak in Basque and promote the use of the Basque language in public services.
I must point out that the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, attached to this report, states that cooperation policy in the European Union is 'unthinkable without respect for and promotion of cultural diversity as an integral part of the identity of the political entities and communities involved.' &#160;&#160; . – The Radical Members voted against the report not only because it opposes the liberalisation of international trade and surrenders to cultural relativism, as well as protectionism, but also because it does not seem to understand the dangers of cultural and linguistic annihilation at the hands of nationalists and proponents of state control.
The European institutions themselves are often mono- or bilingual.
The resolution lacks any reference to innovative solutions to communication requirements on a non-discriminatory basis, for instance by envisaging the use of neutral languages like the international language Esperanto.
Of the concrete proposals that have already found a certain consensus at an international level, I should like to mention the proposal by the Esperanto Radical Association for the Language Policy Observatory, which was also recently recommended by UNESCO’s 32nd General Conference.
Unesco therefore took the initiative, at its conference of 17&#160;October 2003, to begin work on producing a draft Convention on cultural diversity, with the aim of creating an international legal instrument that will protect and promote cultural diversity.
The report before us makes a positive contribution towards this aim, with a series of recommendations to Member States and the Commission regarding Unesco’s work, such as consolidating cultural rights, fostering the development of public cultural policies in each State and committing all the parties involved to international cooperation.
Among other points in the report, I welcome its reaffirmation of the principle of preserving and promoting cultural diversity and access to culture, as a contribution towards mutual understanding between people and towards peace.
I also welcome the reaffirmation – as advocated by Unesco – that culture is not ‘merchandise’ and that it must be excluded from any process of liberalisation, be it multilateral or bilateral, as well as the reaffirmation of the role of public services.
We are, however, dubious about the idea of the EU being legally entitled to take measures within the area of culture and the media in order to preserve and promote cultural diversity.
Deviating national and regional customs are then treated as a form of handicap.
For reasons of principle, we agree with the need to safeguard the right of cultural self-determination and the cultural diversity of the peoples of Europe and the whole world.
The problem cannot be resolved within the framework of organisations such as UNESCO or the Council of Europe, let alone the ΕU.
It was in this light that the Universal Declaration of Cultural Diversity drawn up by Unesco, and the Council of Europe’s Declaration on Cultural Diversity appeared.
These declarations succeeded in going beyond mere trade aspects of educational and cultural services and cultural goods, by encompassing specific objectives such as the development of viable local cultural industries and improving the worldwide distribution of cultural works.
The respect for and protection of cultural diversity are of crucial importance, from the point of view not only of collective awareness, but also of hopefully sustainable development.
We support the concept of public service and reject the liberalisation of these sectors under the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS).
The OSCE promotes security in all ways other than direct armed intervention, and therefore makes every effort to promote respect for cultural and linguistic diversity.
The decision also refers to the recommendations on this subject by the Representative on Freedom of the Media, the text of which can be found at www.osce.org.
In 2002 and 2003 he carried out a thorough study on the media in multilingual societies, taking five countries as examples: Luxembourg, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Moldova and Serbia-Montenegro.
Given that the growth of employment, particularly of women, is directly linked to whether it is possible to combine work with family life, the employment strategy must include references to funding and setting up facilities to care for children and dependents, and access to paid parental leave.
It must also include targeted support measures to assist women in returning to work after raising a family.
I also welcome the fact that it points out the lack of information with regard to the execution of a number of Community programmes, and when it expresses disappointment that the 2003 work programme, relating to priority actions, does no more than reiterate previous intentions.
I also agree with the rapporteur when she underlines the need for a report summarising the 1995 Platform for Action in Member States, to be tabled before the end of this legislative period.
Today, we are to state our position on the annual report for 2002, a good practice that permits us to assess how things stand when it comes to implementing the fine European directives and programmes that are meant to guarantee equal treatment and equal opportunities to women and men.
There are, however, some passages in this otherwise astonishingly sensible motion for a resolution from the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities that have to be modified.
Various Members of this House have objected to the requirement that Member States and accession countries should, by 2010 provide good and affordable childcare facilities for at least 90% of children between three years of age and school age and for 33% of children under the age of three.
No clear objectives were set beforehand, and the assessment criteria laid down by the European Commission in its Framework Strategy for the period 2001-2005 do not reappear in its Annual Report for 2002.
I nonetheless endorse some of the points made in this own-initiative report, which do not, in any case, pertain exclusively to equality between men and women.
I agree, for example, with the rapporteur’s criticism of the lack of transparency of decisions made within the Council, which prevents Parliament and the citizens from making a proper evaluation of its activities and its decisions.
The General Affairs and External Relations Council conclusions of 10 December 2002 contain concrete recommendations as to how the Council and the European Parliament can work more closely to achieve openness and transparency in the European Union's human rights policy.
The Council is committed to putting those recommendations into practice.
The European Union has always been determined to assume its international responsibilities.
It was on our continent, Europe, that the idea of protecting human rights via written norms was first elaborated: the Magna Carta of 1215, the Bill of Rights of 1689 and the Declaration of the Rights of Man of 1789 are all landmarks, but they are not the only landmarks.
This presidency believes strongly that human rights have a strategic part to play in confronting the major challenges of our time.
There is no need to emphasise the close relationship between peace, security and stability on the one hand, and respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law, on the other.
Our Union can, rightly, be proud of the achievements of the last 50 years.
Believing in human rights means being ready to accept criticisms and working every day to strengthen respect for the freedoms that we all hold dear.
If human rights within the Union are respected absolutely, unquestionably and visibly, our foreign policy will be more effective and more persuasive.
We will be in a position to demand respect for basic principles and values – upon which all individual integrity and human decency are founded – from the international community only when those principles and values apply without equivocation in our Union.
The United Nations Commission on Human Rights has played a pivotal role in the promotion and protection of human rights.
The international community should rightly take pride in the Commission's unique contribution to this process and to the progress that has been achieved since the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The European Union remains committed to cooperating with the High Commissioner for Human Rights, the United Nations human rights mechanisms, special rapporteurs and representatives as well as with Treaty bodies.
The European Union will reinforce its efforts towards achieving the United Nations Secretary-General's goal that the rights of all men, women and children must be 'at the heart of every aspect of UN work'.
Before addressing the preparations for this year's Commission on Human Rights, I would like briefly to address the outcome of last year's session, because it is indicative of the challenges that we face next March and April in Geneva.
The war started during the Commission's second week yet, and quite remarkably, the atmosphere, while occasionally fractious, was a significant improvement on the atmosphere of 2002.
There was a more positive approach by all groups on a number of issues which had previously caused serious difficulties, most notably the follow-up to the Durban World Conference against Racism and on the rights of the child.
On individual country situations, the Union successfully tabled resolutions on the human rights situations in Burma (Myanmar), the Democratic Republic of Congo, Iraq, Turkmenistan and North Korea.
The Human Rights Commission adopted a resolution on Israeli settlements in the occupied Arab territories.
It also reflects the very large number of proposals coming forward from the European Union.
One of the more emotive issues addressed by the Commission, a Brazilian resolution on human rights and sexual orientation, co-sponsored by the Union, ran into vigorous objection, in particular from the Organisation of Islamic Conferences.
This issue was remitted to the 60th session of the Commission and it is likely to be very sensitive in the upcoming session.
Australia enjoys the full support and the endorsement of the European Union and of all other members of the Western Group.
Accordingly, the European Union has called on the African Group to reflect on its decision in advance of the election, due on 19 January 2004.
The President of the Council has already made our anxiety clear to move Africa up the agenda of the EU, so there is no question as to our goodwill on this issue.
The first meeting of the Human Rights Working Group of the Irish presidency will take place on 21 January.
In advance of that meeting, the various Common Foreign and Security Policy geographical working groups have been asked to present their priorities and their recommendations for action this year.
COHOM is also likely to request detailed reports from EU heads of mission on human rights situations in these countries.
The Human Rights Working Group will take a final decision at a further meeting to be held on 4 February.
Another effective approach is the type of human rights dialogue that the Union has entered into, for example with China and in the EU-Iran dialogue.
However, the European Union is again likely to table resolutions on the death penalty and on children's rights.
Preparations have also begun for a number of EU statements, including one on the follow-up to the World Conference on Human Rights and others on racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia, the right to development, economic, social and cultural rights, civil and political rights, integration of the human rights of women and the gender perspective, the rights of the child, contemporary forms of slavery and human rights defenders.
The timing of this session for Parliament is very welcome because it means that the Human Rights Working Group will be in a position to take into account the deliberations of this Parliament in framing the Union's priorities for the Commission.
The climate of confrontation, which increasingly characterises debates in the Commission on Human Rights, is a problem which we will address with our partners.
Unfortunately, the very principle of universality of human rights and the conviction that they cannot be constrained or limited by any social, economic or cultural exception are being called into question.
I would like to conclude by reiterating the important and central position of the question of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Union's external relations policies.
Peace, security and international stability are founded on full respect for human rights.
We need to fully guarantee the coherence between respect for human rights internally in the European Union and the central role that human rights play in our own external policy.
The Commission would like to contribute to this debate on the basis of some of its specific points of view.
In the statement on the CHR preparations delivered on behalf of the Commission to Parliament last year, Commissioner Nielson noted that Eleanor Roosevelt, the first Chairman of the CHR in 1946, would be turning in her grave at the election of a Libyan Chair.
A final decision on the European Union’s country and thematic initiatives has not yet been taken and consultations continue between the Council Working Group on Human Rights and geographical working groups.
As the European Parliament’s Annual Report on Human Rights noted last year, the European Union is one of the most active players at the Commission on Human Rights.
The EU must make best use of the revitalisation of the United States' interest in both the General Assembly Third Committee and the Commission on Human Rights.
Whilst acknowledging that EU and US views diverge sharply on several issues, the successful cooperation on the resolution on Turkmenistan last year shows that playing to the strengths of our relationship with the United States can pay dividends.
Cooperation with Latin American countries – not least on the omnibus resolution on the rights of the child – stands as a good example of partnership with other groups.
The potential success or failure of draft resolutions cannot, of course, constitute the primary factor in decisions on EU action.
The very act of tabling a resolution sends a strong signal of concern and the situation of human rights on the ground must be a pivotal consideration.
That said, in rejecting entirely justified resolutions, the Commission on Human Rights is falling far short of fulfilling its mandate to promote and protect human rights.
Such resolutions do not only stand as a mark of the international community’s preoccupation with a particular country’s human rights record; they provide the basis for the work of country and thematic rapporteurs, charged with the investigation of human rights concerns.
It is a mark of the lightness with which certain members of the Commission on Human Rights carry their responsibility to the institution that 35 of the 53 state members have failed to extend a standing invitation to those rapporteurs and other visiting mechanisms.
That is entirely in line with the EU’s determination to draw on the work of the Commission on Human Rights as an important element of our relations with third countries, to ensure that the approach we take throughout the year is consistent with what goes on in international human rights fora and to ensure that the mainstreaming of human rights in external relations is a meaningful process.
The Commission therefore welcomes this debate.
I shall conclude by underlining the Commission’s intention to extend every assistance to the Irish presidency during what will undoubtedly be a challenging year for the EU in the Commission on Human Rights. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, every year, we have this human rights debate immediately before the UN Commission on Human Rights meets in Geneva, and every year we are able, in fact, wholeheartedly to endorse what the Commission and the Council have to say.
The President-in-Office of the Council has quite rightly said that human rights are an indispensable requirement if peace, stability and prosperity are to be secured.
Where human rights are concerned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are indeed, unfortunately, not alone.
The chairman of my group said something on this subject this morning, to the effect that it would be a good thing if action for human rights in major States were to be given some substantial expression, that is, in joint communiqués.
I therefore ask you, when you represent the European Union at meetings of the UN Commission on Human Rights, to support resolutions on China, on Russia and also on Iran.
I am the rapporteur on Iran and believe that the present situation makes it necessary that we do this.
Turning to the Africans, one cannot but wonder what they actually want: appreciation on the one hand for the way in which they are establishing high standards under NEPAD, the new programme for African development, and for even establishing the peer review mechanism that we spent yesterday evening discussing, but when it comes to getting practical, they shy away, even objecting to Australia assuming the presidency – probably because Australia has taken a high-profile line on Zimbabwe.
I said yesterday that I am very much in favour of us supporting those who do something practical in defence of human rights, but, contrariwise, that also means that we have to impose sanctions on those who do not. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Parliament is naturally very pleased to see that the Council and the Commission are taking its opinion into account before the Geneva session.
The second issue relates to the European Union’s decisions: its votes must reflect the concerns that Parliament has expressed in its annual reports and its resolutions, in particular with regard to strengthening international law as a guarantor of human rights in the world.
The third concern is that condemning terrorism and countries that shelter terrorists must go hand in hand with condemning all of the abuses and violations of human rights perpetrated today in many countries in the name of the fight against terrorism.
This fight is certainly important, but it must not flout international law nor infringe upon human rights.
This concern of the European Parliament, highlighted in its resolution of January 2003, will be clearly reflected in the 2003 report on human rights in the world, for which I am rapporteur.
The fourth issue, the right to reproductive health, which covers all of the services relating to sexual and reproductive life, was also given priority in that same report.
We hope that the Council and the Commission will give a very firm commitment in relation to this right to reproductive health.
Fifthly and finally, the European Parliament welcomes the coordination between the Commission and the Council and hopes that this will continue.
As in 2003, it would like an delegation to be able to attend the next session in Geneva. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representative of the Commission, I believe that it is a pleasure for this Parliament to be able to hold this debate on the preparation of the 60th session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
Human rights are a priority issue, which must be applied in a universal and indivisible manner, regardless of the cultures on which each country is founded.
I was extremely pleased to hear the President-in-Office of the Council say that human rights were going to be a key element in the Irish Presidency’s work.
I would also point out that, since the European Union is a continent with a significant amount of immigration, it is possible that some of these actions will be directed at immigrant groups.
Since I cannot naturally refer to all the points that I believe must be argued at this session in Geneva, I will just refer to three specific ones: firstly, the issue of Cuba, where illegal detentions are taking place, specifically for crimes of opinion; in this regard, guaranteeing freedom of expression, of association and of meeting is a priority issue.
The European Parliament awarded the Sakharov prize to Oswaldo José Payá in 2002 and I believe this is an issue that we must be concerned about.
I am not going to go too far into this, but there are 700 people there, awaiting trial in a situation which is legally indefensible.
I myself have lived for many years in a country in which human rights were not guaranteed and I believe that the European Union must be committed to defending these rights here and throughout the world. &#160;&#160; Mr President, here at the beginning of 2004 the climate of obsession with security has become more pronounced.
The fight against terrorism is now held up to justify any repressive, authoritarian or discriminatory measure.
In anticipation of the next session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, I would like to mention a few of them.
I am thinking of Sihem Bensedrine, a writer, journalist and former spokesperson for the National Council for Liberties in Tunisia, who was attacked in the middle of the street a few days ago in Tunis on her way home.
A group of 15 lawyers lodged a complaint on her behalf and Sihem Bensedrine blamed, and I quote, ‘the political police’.
In my view, the European institutions, the Council and the Commission, must shilly-shally no longer and must, at the session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and in general, assert an unambiguous position regarding this regime and use their influence to demand respect for all freedoms.
The credibility of the EU-Tunisia links must measure up to this requirement.
I would like to take the opportunity provided by this debate and by the forthcoming visit by Kofi Annan to Brussels to receive the Sakharov Prize to reiterate demands that have already been stated here but which are still relevant.
I would like to talk about the issue of Western Sahara and to call on the governments of the Member States to give their full support to the current efforts of the United Nations.
Finally, I would like to mention the situation in Palestine.
Every gesture of goodwill, like the Geneva peace initiative adopted by Israeli and Palestinian leaders, is immediately scorned, to say the least, by Sharon.
However, as regards condemning breaches of rights, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and the European Union must assume their responsibilities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, 2003 was an exceptionally gloomy year for international human rights.
As we happily swear by the notion of multilateral security based on cooperation, the European Union, as a Community of values and in its human rights work, which has a key impact on security, has been a disappointment in terms of practical work in this area.
Amnestycomplains, for example, that the governments of the Union’s Member States often do not even take the trouble to reply when it contacts them.
We, too, however, have experienced the same sort of frustration in relations between the European Parliament and the Council.
Parliament’s expressions of concern have in these cases, as in many others, come to nothing on account of the passive attitude of Member States, differences of opinion between them, and the commercial and other sordid interests they have lurking in the background.
The new European security strategy will, meanwhile, remain without any sustainable content unless it is anchored to a consistent, coherent and credible human rights policy which the Council also wholeheartedly embraces.
Despite all the Union’s efforts, however, human rights are still being violated in too many areas, not only in the rest of the world but even within the EU itself.
The children that are forced to work or become guerrilla fighters in order to survive are also those children who in our rich societies see their images and their bodies used for commercial activities, in violation of the rights that their age confers on them.
Too many words and statements have been uttered in reaction to urgent situations which actually require strong political decisions, such as the decision to stop the use of children to advertise or promote income-generating activities, and the decision to make certain economic relationships with third countries conditional on respect for human rights.
Those countries that do not have a secular system but one based on enforcing the , with everything that that religious law entails in violation of human rights, should be made to face clear decisions by the Union and the international community.
Although cooperation remains a way of getting closer to the population, maintaining normal economic relations with governments that breach the principle of human rights would be wrong and would clearly contradict all the fine words we have uttered in recent years.
We ask the Irish Presidency, with the support of Parliament, to put forward the need for stronger and more political statements at its next meeting with the United Nations. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I welcome the opportunity presented by this debate to ask the Council and the Commission to put the situation in Vietnam on the agenda for the coming 60th&#160;session of the UN Commission on Human Rights.
A picture of growing government repression in Vietnam emerges from several reliable sources, some local and this applies even more to the second half of last year, 2003.
Gatherings of more than two people are also prohibited.
All in all, we are seeing shocking breaches of human rights here.
The Council and the Commission should push for this promptly in Geneva too. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, I am grateful for the information, but I should like to ask a question, make a comment and lastly, perhaps, make a proposal.
In other words, do we agree with the position of Kofi Annan, who recently declared that democracy is a human right in itself, as can be inferred from Article 21 and others of the Universal Declaration?
In short, it is at best a whistle-blowing body, but one which even in these terms has never done its job properly, precisely because it is composed of opposing blocs in which everyone protects the members of their own regional group.
I believe the problem is to strengthen the institutions responsible and thus the policies.
It is a complete mystery to me, and nobody has ever given me an answer.
The Union therefore has the moral obligation and responsibility to defend and promote fundamental rights and freedoms.
This morning, the Irish Prime Minister, on presenting the programme of the Irish Presidency of the Council, made a particular reference to the issue of human rights.
Unfortunately, the experience of the European institutions shows that the reality is often quite the opposite.
I should like to say a few words on two subjects on which I believe Europe should summon up all its political prestige and use it in Geneva.
The Italian Presidency’s about-turn on the resolution for a moratorium on the death penalty at the United Nations General Assembly, which was announced by the Presidency but never tabled, is a serious occurrence that has left the European Union exposed and, above all, has eroded some of its political authority.
This is shown by the fact that the Governor of Illinois recently decided to commute 167 death sentences, and I believe it was because he felt the impetus and pressure of international public opinion.
In the last ten years more than 400 journalists have been killed, and for very few of these do we have any legal certainty.
In the last six months there have been 228 arrests and 250 unjustified trials, many of which were in countries that belong to the so-called group of western democracies; the latest case emerged only two days ago and involves Turkey.
Among other things, we believe that the forces of repression against journalists and press freedoms have learnt to use more underhand methods.
As has already been said, last year, Brazil presented the UN Commission on Human Rights with an initiative to include combating discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation in the human rights policy of the United Nations.
My group hopes, therefore, that the EU delegation will support this Brazilian initiative in full – every last part of it – and also cooperate on elaborating it further.
All further attempts to destroy this initiative by countries minded to do so must be prevented, in cooperation with at least the EU Member States that are members of the UN Commission on Human Rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too am pleased that we are holding this debate on the preparations for the next session of the UN Commission on Human Rights.
At long last it gives me an opportunity to remind our European Parliament of its commitments on the question of indigenous peoples and in particular on our institution’s dialogue with those too-neglected peoples and its representation to them.
It is my duty, Mr President – and you know what I am talking about – to remind you again of our 1994 resolution on action required internationally to provide effective protection for indigenous peoples, which in fact called for the setting-up of an interparliamentary delegation composed of Members of this Parliament and representatives of indigenous peoples.
The proof is that neither the Council nor the Commission have made any reference to indigenous peoples and Parliament itself has still not arranged its delegation.
We must remedy this lack of consideration for a question that nonetheless affects peoples on five continents.
I would like to thank all the Members who contributed to this debate and to assure them that the Irish presidency will see to it that the points they have raised will be brought to the attention of the appropriate Council instance as we prepare for Geneva.
Secretary-General Annan has yet to appoint a successor to High Commissioner Sergio Vieira de Mello following his tragic death in Iraq.
Let me assure you that this presidency will provide broad and strong support for the Office of High Commissioner at the Geneva meeting, not least because we owe it to the memory of the distinguished incumbent who was cut down in Baghdad, a man who did so much for the cause of human rights.
A Member of Parliament raised the issue of the fight against terrorism and its impact on human rights.
I would like to reiterate that the Commission is of the opinion that the European Union should support the Mexican resolution on protecting human rights in the context of the fight against terrorism, in the 60th session of the UN Commission on Human Rights.
Such a conflict cannot but undermine the credibility and role of the Commission on Human Rights, which is important for us.
This report is unique in that it comes from the employment and social affairs side of this House and which for the first time tries the joined-up approach pioneered at the Tampere Summit.
Very often in this House we have dealt with these issues separately and they have been sensitive separately.
Indeed, they are sensitive issues together.
In the 25 Member States, the working-age population is set to shrink from 303&#160;million to 297&#160;million by 2020, then to 280&#160;million by 2030, almost doubling the old-age dependency ratio.
We are dealing in this report in a joined-up way with those ethnic minority communities in the European Union – people like myself and my family – who are settled in the European Union but who also ask Member States for solutions to discrimination to ensure that full integration really takes place.
This involves the issues of citizenship requirements, language and a plethora of other issues relating to new immigrant communities, as well as settled ethnic minority communities.
We should be proud in this House that for settled ethnic minority communities, we now have – through Article&#160;13 of the Amsterdam Treaty – anti-discrimination legislation.
Where we look at more sensitive issues – for example partnerships between the European Union Member States and developing countries; family unity and immigration – I have also been very sensitive in this report.
I have tried to bring together the whole House in agreement that Member States very often have the primary responsibility in these issues but that we should share best practice.
That is vital because we are dealing with some issues which we know are politically charged and politically sensitive.
The key achievement, I hope, in this report and the key achievement of the Commission communication was not to deal with these issues separately, or to pretend that they could be dealt with separately.
I know that there will be some problems for some Members in this report.
I have tried very hard to bring all parties together because this is a politically sensitive issue.
This very important Commission communication completes our response to the Tampere mandate and fulfils the pledge to examine the role of immigration in relation to the Lisbon strategy.
The communication carries two key messages.
The first – which has already been expressed in the Commission communication of November 2000 – is that, in the context of demographic ageing and decline, sustained immigration flows are likely and necessary if the European Union is to meet the Lisbon goals.
The Commission is pleased that the rapporteur has laid the emphasis on the potential which migrants bring with them.
I would also like to emphasise that we fully agree that we must ensure a European legal framework for the admission of economic migrants and that Member States must keep to the promises made in Tampere.
The Commission has taken note of the difficulties encountered when negotiating in the Council the directive on admission for employment purposes, and is currently considering how best to approach bringing forward this politically sensitive issue.
A Green Paper, followed by an extensive consultation procedure, is envisaged and we are also undertaking a study on the links between illegal and legal migration, which may provide pointers for the future development of a more coherent legal framework for the admission of migrants for employment purposes.
The communication considers that, in order to ensure successful integration, there is a need for an holistic approach that takes into account not only economic and social aspects – these are very important – but also issues relating to cultural and religious diversity, civic citizenship, participation and political rights.
The Commission is therefore pleased to note the specific attention paid in the report to the concept we put forward of civic citizenship and the need to promote a sense of belonging.
A key condition for the successful implementation of an holistic approach of this type is that there should be improved overall policy coherence and synergies between immigration, integration and employment policies at all levels and across all disciplines and between all relevant actors, bearing in mind that prime responsibility for successful integration ultimately lies with the Member States.
We are currently implementing the pilot projects in support of the integration of migrants.
There has been enormous interest in these pilot projects and the programme has been oversubscribed to a factor of ten.
The opinion underlines in particular the usefulness of creating the form of citizenship known as ‘civic citizenship’, which enables third country nationals legally resident in the European Union to have economic, social and political rights and duties, including the right to vote in local and European elections, as the European Parliament has often requested.
It is a particularly relevant and necessary report right now.
If we are to succeed in creating a successful immigration and integration policy at European level too, it is absolutely necessary for a gender perspective to be applied at all levels.
The report, with which I fully agree, should perhaps in my opinion have developed certain aspects which are plainly set out in the Commission’s communication: civic citizenship; guaranteed core rights and obligations; respect for diversity; action to combat discrimination; women; family; civic, cultural and political life; participation; education; and, not least, religion.
This attitude must be utterly rejected: these people must be regarded as human beings who enrich our society, not just in terms of their ability to create growth and well-being but above all as people who embody values and a human, spiritual and cultural identity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
For this very reason, immigration must not be seen as a problem, but as an opportunity.
Without being exhaustive, I would point out the problem of the integration of foreign children, children of immigrants, into schools; that of inter-cultural coexistence in communities and workplaces; that of family reunification, with all the problems raised by the very concept of reunification in a broad sense or in a narrow sense; of the regulation of people without documentation; the fight against illegal immigration and the mafias which exploit it; in particular, the problem of the specific situation of women immigrants.
Bearing in mind that in the countries with very low birth rates, without immigration, the ratio between active and passive workers would become unsustainable in the medium term, I believe that the best approach is to integrate them.
For those who each State can legally receive and with a view to their integration, I believe that the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights offers us the course to follow in its Articles 4, 5 and 14, or, which comes to the same thing, the prohibition of inhumane or degrading treatment; the prohibition of forced labour and the right to education.
We said that the first means of integration was employment, naturally followed by cultural integration, but we must not forget that Article 1 of the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights tells us that, ‘Human dignity is inviolable.
The Moraes report has remained precisely within the spirit and letter of the decisions taken at Tampere, expressly calling for a more dynamic policy to integrate immigrants, in the aim of granting rights and obligations similar to those which apply to the citizens of Europe.
The Europe of human rights and the Rule of Law needs to recognise the basic labour and political rights of immigrants, to recognise what they have to offer, their valuable contribution to the economic development of Europe.
Of course, social integration makes no sense without recognition of political rights and obligations, in other words the right to vote and to be elected.
I think that a huge moral issue is in the making with the position of numerous conservative Members, who gladly accept the exploitation of the manpower of immigrants, especially in jobs which Europeans have abandoned, and at the same time see them as a solution to the demographic problem, but who say nothing about recognising their political rights.
Over the last ten years, my political group has been fighting for a more humanitarian approach to the problems caused by large waves of immigrants and refugees and we are fighting for a pluralist and multicultural Europe, for unity within our differences, where everyone will have their place and rights without discrimination and without notional walls between us.
European integration, social cohesion and the Lisbon strategy will be unattainable objectives, as you too stressed Commissioner, without the full safeguarding and application of all the human and political rights which European governments have promised to guarantee.
Parliament has repeatedly proposed full recognition of the political rights of anyone who has been resident in the European Union for five years.
I should also be obliged, Mr President, if you would allow me, as chairman of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, to call for something which is missing from the Commission communication: the integration of the gender aspect in all policies relating to immigrants' rights.
Women are the most vulnerable group and often the first victims of economic and sexual exploitation.
That is why special measures need to be taken to combat discrimination and facilitate their integration into social and professional life.
Such measures might be vocational training, childcare facilities, individualisation of their rights, counselling, specialist research etc. &#160;&#160; Mr President, anyone who has ever lived or worked in a different country or even in a town or city distant from home will have experienced some of the difficulties that may be encountered in moving from one environment to another.
Such difficulties become even more important when the change in linguistic and cultural context is a major one.
The Moraes Report tackles the issues in a way that is at once realistic, sensitive and robust.
I am particularly grateful for the extent to which the report identifies problems for migrant women and measures to assist in resolving these.
We rather regret that, given the degree of consensus the report achieved there, it has been opened up for amendments in plenary.
That said, we can support the majority of them, either in whole or in part.
The fact is, however, that the image of Fortress Europe that the European Union has generated, as a result of its profoundly restrictive immigration policies, stands in stark contrast to the real economic need for immigrant labour.
This is why this Commission proposal presents immigration as part of the solution to the ageing of Europe’s population and to the decline in its active population.
I deplore the fact that the Commission attaches greater importance to the economic and demographic aspects that lead to immigration than to the social and human aspects or to improving the living and working conditions of immigrants in the various countries of the European Union.
The fight against illegal immigration and the trafficking of human beings cannot result in a repressive policy that targets illegal immigrants.
These include opposing the content of the Council directive on family reunification, which contravenes the fundamental right to live in a family and contains an unacceptable proposal to subject all immigrant children of at least two years of age to a test, before deciding whether they can join their parents.
I would also highlight our appeal to Member States to ratify the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of their Families, adopted by United Nations General Assembly Resolution No 45158 of 18&#160;December 1990.
In addition, however, the overwhelming majority of immigrant workers who do not have residence permits but who do pay taxes and social security contributions in their host country should be automatically legalised.
We also hope that account is taken of the fact that the overwhelming majority of immigrants are citizens of third countries who emigrate to European Union countries to flee situations of extreme poverty in their country of origin and who must, therefore, be treated as victims and not as potential criminals.
Lastly, I am sorry that the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats seeks to use the Moraes report to call into question established political rights, specifically the right of immigrant workers to vote in local elections to the European Parliament.
Immigrants, and women in particular, should be deemed worthy of reception conditions that respect human rights, fundamental freedoms and equal economic, social and cultural rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this very rich report, which covers a very wide area.
Part of the problem that we see in the European Union is that certain Member States now see themselves moving from countries of emigration to countries of migration, and other countries are coming face to face with the fact that they have made a very bad job in terms of using the talents and skills of many long-term migrants and, indeed, second and third generation nationals, as they are now in some countries.
In an ideal world migration should be a matter of free choice, not forced by circumstance, so we welcome the recognition in this report of the need to reduce the causes of forced migration.
There are a number of issues concerning, in particular, the labour market and equal treatment, which form part of this will to come and work in the European Union.
The Article 13 directives tackling the racism and discrimination faced by many migrant workers are extremely important, as are the issues surrounding access to the market itself and equal pay and working conditions – rather than the exploitation of cheap migrant workers.
It is important that he emphasised that this issue is within the competence of the Member States and that it is through cooperation and coordination, rather than direction and enforcement of individual acts of legislation, that the best results can be achieved.
They have suffered for so long from lack of opportunity, lack of economic development and lack of political freedom and skills.
That brings us to the point which many Members have already discussed here today, that is, how best we ensure that those who are emigrating into the European Union are given the protection and opportunities to benefit from any economic growth or any social rights that are there.
This idea of managed migration is an important response to the demographic and economic changes which are taking place.
It is only by our acting in cooperation and coordination with those third countries – and I am delighted that the rapporteur was able to take on board my amendment on this – that we can ensure there is no cherry-picking of the best individuals from those third countries, that there is not a brain drain and that there is also benefit to the European Union.
We have seen that where there is a lack of controls and where there is a lack of decision-making within Member States, we have problems with regard to racism.
With regard to women's issues, particularly protection for women who are illegally trafficked, each of us has a responsibility to stamp this out wherever it takes place.
My last point is that tonight we will be discussing the employment and service sector, which is linked to this issue of protecting individuals. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as the son of immigrants, I, too, realise only too well that attention must be paid to the different facets of immigration: to the problems that have been highlighted, but also to the opportunities it presents.
Whilst there are still labour reserves in the European Union, at all events, the recruitment of migrant workers cannot constitute a solution.
In the Netherlands, the debate on this is in full swing.
Precisely because of this observation, a European policy cannot be effective, and labour migration and integration should be a national priority.
Paragraph&#160;28 calls for attention to the problems that can be an issue in the field of general and reproductive health.
These comments do not detract from the need for cooperation with countries of origin, however, or for consultations among the Member States of the European Union.
The need to improve the situation of immigrants and their place in the labour market is clear. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the report that we are now discussing catalogues Utopian views, which, like all Utopian views, will prove unworkable in practice.
To begin with, migratory flows are not an inescapable reality, as the rapporteur says.
On the contrary, until further notice, Member States still have the right to determine for themselves who enters the country, when and under what conditions.
Also, the fact that most governments are extremely lax in applying their own immigration and integration legislation does not mean that the population is in agreement.
After all, what legitimacy does a European Union have that takes decisions that are diametrically opposed to the will of the people?
The discussion on rights without obligations that unfortunately also finds expression in this report, has had its day.
In the Netherlands, for example, a commission of inquiry has been set up to look into the current integration policy, and two governing parties have already come to the conclusion that the policy of cosseting has been a failure.
The report does not say a single word about the socio-economic or social problems that currently exist.
In Flanders, for example, unemployment among people of North African origin is four to five times that of the indigenous population, in relative terms, so that the question arises as to who actually has an interest in a new form of immigration.
Positive noises are necessary, because we already have a great many migrants in our countries.
The last speaker rightly pointed out the extremely high unemployment among migrants.
Looking at the EU figures for 2002, I see that the unemployment rate among citizens of the European Union is 7.1%, but is more than double that for non-EU citizens living in the EU: almost&#160;16%.
I am always dumbfounded by the ideology that some people propagate in this Parliament, whilst in their own country, where they hold administrative power, they are unable to translate that same ideology into policy.
The right to vote is not granted in any of those countries: you can put it in your memoranda or your documents as much as you want, but your governments do not want to grant the right to vote and nor do your parties.
I say this because I have tried, in a moderate way, to ensure that reference is made in the text to political rights without making a direct link with the right to vote.
They learn the language at work and can put their children through the education system in these countries in the normal way.
I should also like to draw attention to another point.
When it comes to highly qualified migrants – and here I am not especially talking about migrants from African countries, but those from the United States, for example – we never ask that they speak our language, because they end up in companies where the language of communication is English.
We make a great many requirements of less-skilled workers – soon they will have to take exams, too – making things very difficult for them. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to begin by congratulating both the Commission and the rapporteur on a really excellent report on a very important subject.
It is believed that people from other countries will come and take our jobs when, in reality, the situation is quite the opposite.
Approximately half of my neighbours had arrived as immigrants from other countries.
We should not have had the prosperity we enjoy today if these people, together with the rest of us, had not contributed to it.
We have, firstly, a refugee policy and, secondly, an immigration policy.
Europe must be a refuge for people being persecuted and in danger of being killed in other countries.
It concerns people who are not in danger of being killed in their own countries but who would like to come to Europe, both to obtain a better life for themselves and to contribute to our societies, as they, in actual fact, do.
We need people, including people from other countries, together with those who are already here.
Immigrants must be integrated as soon as possible.
I have experience of the euro vote in Sweden where we applied the same rules as in local elections; that is to say, people from other countries were allowed to vote.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome this very good report and congratulate the rapporteur.
We must place these human rights issues within the justice framework, as well as the social policy framework.
For instance, if asylum seekers were allowed to work, they could escape the jibe of being welfare scroungers, which is unfairly thrown at them and which gives such a bad start to their eventual integration if they get legal status. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since the economic system based on paid work became widespread, emigration has always served to provide the enterprises of the developed countries with labour.
France, Great Britain and other countries would not have developed without the contribution of immigrants from their colonial empires or from poorer countries of Eastern Europe.
What, however, the workers can and must be given in order to safeguard their collective interests, whether they are citizens or migrants, is a strict equality of rights so that the employers cannot set one against the other by introducing a competition that will be harmful to all.
We call, moreover, for the legalisation of the situation of all so-called illegal immigrant workers, who are only illegal because the authorities refuse to grant them papers. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Moraes report on the Commission communication on integration and employment is an example of how good policies can never be built on the basis of good intentions alone; a certain Machiavelli taught us that.
It then goes so far as to state, however, in these very words, that the current political climate regarding asylum and illegal immigration may be – just think of it! – a possible obstacle to creating cooperation on managed migration and integration policies.
This view can only lead to statements that lack any objectivity and any connection with reality, as for instance when the idea is put forward that combating illegal immigration and the trafficking of human beings results in a repressive policy against immigrants.
We are dealing with the important issue of determining the reception capacity of the Member States according to the needs of their labour markets, and we are doing so from two points of view: quantitative and qualitative.
It is therefore crucial for governments to make realistic offers which are as far as possible in line with available jobs, temporary or permanent, which can be filled by means of migratory flows, which ultimately have the effect of balancing the European Union's demographic deficit.
Furthermore, the problem is currently arising – with tragic results in many cases, as we are seeing – of the emergence of a hidden economy in sectors such as agriculture, domestic service and construction; an economy which is fed partly by illegal immigration and which leads to subhuman situations and conditions both from a strictly employment point of view and from a social point of view.
This leads to the establishment of ghettos and communities which are entirely fragmented and that face serious problems in surviving in the host countries.
Having said this, Commissioner, Mr President, we can spend every day holding seminars and meetings, and applying all our attention to multiculturalism and integration from a religious point of view, and other issues, which lead us nowhere unless we establish crystal clear conditions for legal and ordered entry which guarantee immigrants a job in the European Union and facilitate their reception and social, cultural and political integration.
In short, Mr President, from a human point of view.
In any event, we can do nothing if we restrict ourselves to wishing to resolve this problem by making the European Union solely responsible, without demanding that countries of origin co-operate very actively in the ordered flow of their own immigrants, which would mean these countries having the necessary administrative structures to organise their migratory flows, also making it more attractive for their own workers to return and, naturally, preventing mass exoduses, as is currently the case in certain border countries or, also – let us not forget – from countries on the other side of the Atlantic, as a result of their economic, political and social instability. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commission’s communication on immigration, integration and employment starts with a hymn to immigration and goes on to describe all kinds of measures to encourage integration without ever asking whether any of it is materially possible and, in particular, what the overall cost will be for our societies.
It is because of reports like this that the governments of the countries of Europe have for decades allowed themselves to be lulled into a false sense of security and they are now waking up to an enormous failure and a terrible mess.
These are vital questions because the Commission’s powers will soon be increased by virtue of the Nice and Amsterdam Treaties.
Work should be done transparently so that people are not deceived. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the number of people in gainful employment in the EU will decrease from 303 million to 280 million by 2030.
The Member States must act with far more agreement and far greater decisiveness if legitimate employment is to be permitted and illegal employment prevented.
The fact is that the latter compels many workers to accept intolerable pay and living conditions.
All in all, we all need society to be more family-friendly.
Better-qualified workers and an increase in the number of jobs are dependent on the labour markets and the education and training systems being reformed.
As a number of Members have said, one key point is that each Member State is itself responsible for making its own local election rules.
I should like to mention Amendment No&#160;13 in particular, which more or less states that anyone who has paid even a small amount of tax anywhere should have an automatic right to a residence permit.
I think that it is impossible to speak about any part of this topic without taking as one’s point of departure that Europe, with 450&#160;million inhabitants, cannot be a reception centre for ten times as many people living outside Europe.
That is not possible, and if we refuse to accept this fact, things become very difficult.
If we cannot provide employment, there is no sense in granting rights.
That is the problem that we have here in the background.
The rapporteur has shown that he is aware of that.
Unfortunately, however, there are still some people in his own party – and in some other parties – who copy those aristocrats of old who believed that everyone should simply be given rights but who were not themselves prepared to accept the logical consequences of this and, instead, left others to deal with them.
That exacerbates the misery, as we can see in the United States, and we want to avoid that.
Finally, on the subject of European citizenship, the rules on this are laid down in the Treaty, and it is indeed strange to include this subject here in a couple of words.
We have, however, declared ourselves in agreement with the Convention, which does not provide for this.
It would be very strange, then, if we were to simply go and lay down rules on the subject here in this report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Vitorino, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are now discussing, on immigration, integration and employment, clearly delineates a multifaceted and topical set of problems that is not being addressed in the European Union or in any of the Member States.
The Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere European Council laid the foundations for immigration policy in the Union.
My country, Portugal, currently receives 400&#160;000 immigrants, which represents 8% of the working population and in the next 50 years could see a 17% fall in its total population.
Each Member State must consequently, in coordination with the Union, set limits for migratory flows that match the needs of their labour markets and also provide a supportive, humane and integrated response to receiving those who seek us out in order to improve their living conditions.
In view of the new demographic challenges that the European Union will have to confront in a few years’ time, the Commission and the rapporteur are right to present immigration as part, but only part, of the answer for Europe.
In view of the economic and social consequences of the ageing of the population, it is clear today that managed immigration will without a doubt avoid a slowing down in economic growth and a decline in our fellow citizens’ quality of life.
That being the case, we need a number of measures to facilitate and improve the reception and integration of aliens without penalising either the host country or the aliens who are moving lawfully on the territory of the European Union.
One of the necessary conditions for successful integration is that immigrants should have access to the European Union’s employment market and we are all agreed on that.
It seems to me premature, however, in the context of a report on employment and integration, to give third country nationals the right to vote in local and European elections.
As my fellow Member, the chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, said, how can we imagine third country nationals voting in European elections when they do not have the right to vote in general elections in our countries?
As for local elections, each of the Union’s 15 countries currently has its own practice in the matter of voting rights –&#160;nationality based on parentage or place of birth&#160;– and it is unthinkable today to imagine that the same legislation could be applied to all 15 countries of the Union by a vote taken so stealthily.
The Irish Presidency also mentioned this point this morning.
Migratory flows must be managed so that they serve the interests of both the host country and the country of origin.
Management of these flows may in fact be a response, as has already been said, to the democratic and economic development of the Union.
We now need to improve the integration of the immigrants – legal immigrants – who represent a resource, but the immigrant populations must in turn respect the fundamental values of their host countries.
A proposal has been mentioned to guarantee citizens of third countries legally residing in the Union the opportunity to vote in local and European elections.
I thank the rapporteur in particular for the compromise reached with the Member State governments on setting up a quota system for legal entry into their countries, and thus into Europe, to be offered to the countries of origin and of transit as one of the main incentives for negotiation and agreement on readmission.
In any case, this complex issue, together with preparation of policy on the management of migratory flows, must obviously be dealt with at European level as quickly as possible.
The rights of migrants must be recognised, but only alongside a policy to regulate these flows, which has to be a strict one.
In conclusion, Italy has the second highest number of immigrants in Europe and is the only country in Europe to have very long external borders to the east and to the south.
The whole of Europe must take stock of the size and complexity of this enormous migratory and social pressure, because the real problem starts in Italy but is immediately and automatically transferred to all the other Community countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Vitorino, I wish to take this opportunity to wish you a happy birthday.
We are seeing an increase in illegal migratory flows, generally controlled by criminal networks that give misleading information to potential migrants, who end up forced to work in conditions completely different to those they were promised, which might even include physical and or mental abuse and breaches of their human rights.
It must be left to each Member State to assess and to decide whether it should increase its labour force, in what quantity, in what sector, bearing in mind its real needs and its capacity to receive and integrate these immigrants.
We must fight against illegal migratory flows, allowing economic migrants to take advantage of clearly defined and transparent legal channels, in order to compensate for possible labour shortages in each Member State.
The proposal for a directive on the admission of third country nationals for the purpose of employment must help to explain to potential immigrants the legal ways of obtaining the right to reside in the Union.
There must be a common approach that ensures the integration of third-country nationals into our societies, guaranteeing rights and obligations as regards residency, access to education and employment and ensuring that they are not subject to discrimination at the economic, social and cultural levels.
In recent years the subject of migration into many European countries has taken on bitter and often dramatic connotations.
I believe it is both necessary and useful for the various Member States to share a common position on this subject, because I cannot envisage any positive scenarios unless they are regulated by all the countries in the Union.
I believe the right to vote, at a local and not just a European level, should be a consequence of these rights and not a precondition, as seems to have been suggested at times in some debates in recent years.
In our eagerness for integration we must not forget that our first duty, in my opinion, is to create the means for making a living in developing countries, so that everyone can find it possible to stay in their own home country.
Our second duty is to facilitate the return of immigrants to their countries of origin as agents for the development and growth of their own countries.
Down in third place, I put the need for Old Europe, impoverished by low birth rates and few workers, to see migration as a benefit to our countries.
Having said that, there is no doubt that we should have control mechanisms to enable us to combat illegal immigration and, within the Member States, to combat breaches of the host country’s rules. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mrs Sartori.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. &#160;&#160; A very good afternoon to you, ladies and gentlemen.
However, the conditions under which dogs such as greyhounds are bred and take part in races in Member States are not regulated by Community legislation.
It is up to the Irish Government to introduce rules on breeding and proper controls, and also to ensure that the owners of the animals are responsible for them, not just for the racing period but to the end of their life.
It is really an issue of animal welfare, and the Irish Government should introduce something to control the breeding of greyhounds and to ensure that the people who breed them are responsible for them up to the end of their lives.
Some sort of identification mechanism, such as a tagging system, would also make it much easier to identify them.
I fully understand her concerns and, as she knows, we have actually discussed it.
I have outlined the Council's position on the issue, which was also the subject of a question to the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in my country, too, there is a group of people that is very concerned about these practices, and they want to put an end to them.
I think that the Council must take a position on this and make clear that animal rights apply throughout the EU.
The existing Community legislation related to the safety of nuclear installations is mainly based on Chapter 3 of Title II of the Euratom Treaty.
Council Directive 96/29/Euratom laying down basic safety standards for the protection of the health of workers and the general public against the dangers arising from ionising radiation provides the basic radiation protection obligations which must be complied with. &#160;&#160; While I appreciate the constraints on the Council presidency, I really have to say that people in Britain and Ireland and, indeed, throughout the European Union will find that response to their concerns completely inadequate.
This comes from the UK Public Health Minister.
I would like the Irish presidency to convene a special meeting of EC experts, along with national and other experts, to assess the implications of this.
I am answering here in the capacity of President-in-Office of the Council.
But today only two Members may speak.
I must comply with the Rules of Procedure, and I would ask you to respect it as well.
You resolved that situation by consulting the Irish citizens, that is, by means of a referendum.
We have a situation in the Basque Country which is also difficult and worrying, and which is creating great tension and violence.
It is about the role and place of countries within Member States.
The Irish presidency, not least because of its interest in the problems of Northern Ireland, but for other reasons as well, ought to give its mind and invite its colleagues to give their minds to the issue of the adequate and improved representation of countries of that kind. &#160;&#160; Mr Ortuondo, since you will most probably not make a point of order – I do not know if you wish to make a personal statement – you may speak for fifteen seconds and I would ask you not to cause any further personal statements, please.
The first concerns only comitology.
However, the second provides for the extension of the LIFE regime for a further two years to bridge the gap between the current regime and the new Financial Perspectives for 2007 onwards.
On 22&#160;December 2003 the Council held an exchange of views on this second aspect and on the options for financing the EU's environmental policies from 2007 onwards.
I should also like to know whether the Council thinks that our financial perspectives will match the commitments given by the European institutions?
Much of the effort to date as regards the Natura 2000 network of sites, habitats and bird directives has been devoted to the initial designation of sites; the purely mechanical side of it.
It is very difficult at this early stage to estimate the likely costs of conserving those sites in future years.
On 28 November 2003 the presidency, on behalf of the European Union, issued a statement on the current situation in Zimbabwe, expressing its continued concern regarding the climate of tension in Zimbabwe and calling on its government to respect the internationally-guaranteed rights of all Zimbabwean people.
An identical message was passed directly to Zimbabwe and other SADC countries during the meeting of the EU-SADC senior officials in Brussels, held on 12 and 13 November 2003, and was again transmitted to South Africa during the political dialogue meeting in Pretoria on 8 December 2003.
The common position, as adopted on 18 February 2002, expresses the Council's serious concern about the situation in Zimbabwe, in particular the recent escalation in violence and intimidation of political opponents and the harassment of the independent press.
When reviewed in 2003, the common position noted that there has been further degradation in the situation in Zimbabwe, where serious violations of human rights and of the freedom of opinion, of association and of peaceful assembly continue to occur.
The common position is up for review on 18 February 2004.
In this context, preparatory work on recommendations to be submitted to the Council has begun within the relevant Council departments.
These recommendations will be submitted to the Council for discussion at that time. &#160;&#160; I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his answer.
Second, would the President-in-Office consider it appropriate for the Council to now press for the extension of the list of banned individuals – a list of people who have sanctions against them and are not given visas – to include family members, people who have died or changed office and so on?
In my view and in Parliament's view – it is in our resolution on the subject – the list should be extended and reviewed.
I should very much like your opinion on this.
There will, however, be a review of the list and there may be some extension to it. &#160;&#160; I should like to ask a very brief supplementary question to Mrs Kinnock's question.
The next stage is a matter for current discussion and I do not want to anticipate that discussion by going further than I already have. &#160;&#160; I note that the honourable Members put a lot of trust in their cruising speed when taking their lifts, and this could lead to a standstill if we apply the Rules of Procedure.
On 9 December 2003, the Commission and Syria reached an accord on an Association Agreement between Syria and the EU modelled on the agreements with the other Mediterranean partnerships, including a political chapter, an economic and financial chapter, and a social and cultural chapter.
When it enters into force, this agreement will replace the existing 1977 Cooperation Agreement which, as part of the global Mediterranean approach, currently links the two sides.
In particular it includes essential provisions on respect for the democratic principles on fundamental rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; cooperation to counter the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery in line with the conclusions of the External Relations Council in November 2003; and the exchange of information and joint efforts to prevent and fight against terrorism, including the implementation of the relevant United Nations resolutions.
With regard to the second element in the honourable Member's question on the Middle East peace process in general, the Council invites the honourable Member to refer to the Presidency Conclusions of the European Council meeting held in Brussels on 12 December 2003.
In paragraph 61 the European Council recalled that a comprehensive peace in the Middle East must also include Syria and, of course, Lebanon.
The Council has not commented on positions taken on this matter by the United States, nor does the Council intend to do so at this stage. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for your reply.
I feel that I cannot insist that you reply to me on the element on which you clearly stated that you did not intend to comment, even though I believe that an open dialogue which highlights the common points and the different approaches between the European Union and the United States is not negative; it is positive in making us aware of the situation and our joint action.
I agree with her that there is no point in making negative comparisons between our approach and that of, for example, the United States.
Let us consider its aims: to provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue; to establish the conditions for progressive liberalisation of trade in goods, services and capital; to enhance prosperity and economic and social development in Syria and to encourage cooperation within the Euro-Mediterranean framework, and, finally, to promote cooperation in economic, social, cultural and financial fields.
That is in accordance with the decisions taken in the External Relations Council in November 2003.
There is a dialogue between Europe and the United States, which is quite appropriate.
In the conclusions of the last Council meeting on external relations on 9 December 2003, the Council expressed concern over the slow process of reform in Albania and urged the Albanian Government to intensify its efforts, particularly in its fight against organised crime.
Helping the Albanian Government to fight drug trafficking has been an integral part of EU efforts to contribute to the fight against organised crime in Albania.
Police forces and experts from the European Union and Member States have consistently been present in Albania, particularly since the 1997 crisis, to help the Albanian Government in various ways, including specific operations, to build capacity and fight organised crime, including drug production and drug trafficking.
As regards drugs, major initiatives were taken under the Greek and Italian presidencies in 2003 to enhance the fight against drug trafficking in the Balkan region in general and in Albania in particular.
In June 2003 a comprehensive action plan on drugs was agreed between the European Union and the Western Balkan States.
A large part of this plan was devoted to the fight against drugs trafficking.
A very fruitful follow-up meeting was held on 2 December 2003 in Brussels.
The common conclusions resulting from that meeting stressed the need to enhance law enforcement capacity in the Western Balkans.
There must be some form of coordination and certainly some form of exchange of information at a very basic level.
I refer the Member to what I said in my previous response, which was that the resolution envisages the setting-up of a coordination mechanism among liaison officers to ensure a constant exchange of information.
I am sure that the Member's observations will be helpful in that specific regard.
The programme covers the period 2004 to 2006.
They are collectively vested with responsibility for ensuring that the Council delivers on its agreed priorities up to 2006 effectively and on time.
The presidency found the recently agreed Multiannual Strategic Programme to be a very useful basis for the preparation of both the Annual Operating Programme and the Irish Presidency Programme.
It gives a more structured basis for the on-going Community relationships with the rest of the world. &#160;&#160; I agree with what the President-in-Office has said about the value of these tools and place on the record my welcome for the Irish presidency programme in this respect.
It is very helpful to incoming presidencies to have a role to play so that they can interlink all the issues.
I cannot be more specific other than to say that the Multiannual Strategic Programme is helpful.
During the first semester in 2003 the presidency put together a compromise package covering the key outstanding issues which were discussed by the Council in a public session which was held on 3 June 2003.
During the second semester, various high-level discussions were held but, in the absence of new elements allowing the situation to be unblocked, the matter was not discussed at the Council meeting of 1 December 2003 as had been initially envisaged and hoped.
As the Member knows – because the Member has raised this matter in different fora – the Irish presidency attaches great importance to the success of the Lisbon Strategy, and will of course reflect on how this dossier can be finalised in that context.
The Council has consistently given a confirmed commitment to reaching the Lisbon goals of increasing employment and providing better jobs, and intends to work for a fair and practical solution which takes into account all legitimate concerns – and there are many of them.
I am fully aware of his concerns on the issue and the presidency is also fully aware of his concerns.
As the Member knows, we will work on this dossier within the context of the general work we are doing on the Lisbon agenda issues. &#160;&#160; I wish to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his comprehensive and welcome reply.
He has indicated a willingness to progress this dossier, which an important one in the context of the Lisbon Agenda.
On page 16 you mention the key challenges you are committed to pursuing: encouraging greater adaptability and flexibility on the part of workers and companies and removing disincentives to employment.
In Ireland we have had some experience in recent years of the tremendous progress that can be made economically by having an inclusive approach to it.
But is the presidency aware of the different definitions of agency workers in different Member States, and how this creates a difficulty as regards drawing up harmonised regulations or directives, the purpose of which is to protect workers and actually to improve their position within employment?
Young medical graduates, for example, may well choose to work on an agency basis because it is more flexible and suits them better.
I recognise the importance of securing agreement on proposals that improve the rights of workers, including temporary agency workers, but which at the same time do not force anybody to operate in a way they would not wish to.
As I have said, the presidency sees this as an important issue, not least within the context of the Lisbon strategy.
I am not asking him to comment on something foreign, I am asking him to talk to us about a directive which the Council approved, on which the President of the European Parliament has taken steps in connection with referral to the Court of Justice, on which non-governmental organisations have taken steps and which makes provision for children of 12 years of age and upwards – just think if it were our daughter, or your daughter, or the daughter of an honourable Member or the daughter of someone who works here – to pass examinations in order to be united with their family.
We cannot deal with this matter with this sort of technocracy and without a sensitive reply by the President-in-Office of the Council and I call for a material response. &#160;&#160; .
At the same time as backing him up 100% on that, I would also propose that it would be in the interests of our security if the package of measures that this House expects were to be implemented during the term of the Irish Presidency and also during the Dutch Presidency that will follow it.
The House proposes this package of measures in the spheres of illegal immigration, the smuggling and trafficking of human beings, the securing of our external borders and the return of illegal residents in the European Union.
I was commissioned to draft an own-initiative report for Parliament, and I am extremely pleased to note the excellent negotiations that we have had, with good results, and the fact that we have been able to achieve a broad consensus in the Committee, receiving also the support of the Council and the Commission.
It basically appears to me that, although Parliament is able wholeheartedly to endorse the priorities set down in Thessaloniki, we do see it as important that particular attention be given to some of them, and I would now like to present six priorities for your consideration.
This does not, however, mean that we can take competences away from the Member States, but rather, on the contrary, that competence to secure the borders must remain with them, whilst the European Union will provide, for fixed periods of time, on high-risk stretches of the border, and at the Member States’ request, special units financed by the Community in order to guarantee security there when there are temporary and special threats.
If we want to exchange detailed information accurately between one Member State and another, between the Member States and the Commission and with third states, we need data in standard formats, and to take appropriate steps towards having a standardised data system at our disposal.
Thirdly, we need to implement a common asylum policy, common immigration policy measures and a return policy.
Our expectation is that the Treaty will be adhered to and that the Irish Presidency will indeed manage, by May 2004 to decide on and adopt the necessary items of asylum legislation, so that we can comply with the Treaty and take the necessary political action to get a common asylum law.
That is the second aspect of controlled and legal immigration.
Furthermore, it is a shared opinion that the Community’s borders should remain open to people fleeing forms of repression who then apply for asylum in the Member States of the Union.
We also all agree in acknowledging that it is an exclusive right of the Member States, deriving from the principle of subsidiarity, to establish the nature and scale of legal immigration, but a common social integration policy is now essential in an area of security, common policy, social relations and economic justice.
Lastly, it is worth noting that the debate in the Committee on Citizen’s Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs came to the conclusion that bilateral readmission agreements between Member States and countries of origin and transit should, if possible, be replaced with truly Community-wide agreements, perhaps recognised by all the Member States without exception – in other words, without any opting-out.
Finally, in this common area of European commitment on immigration, I am pleased to recall – as the rapporteur also did when closing his speech – an initiative that complements this effort to combat illegal immigration.
This is the regulation that came into force on 1 January this year – just a few days ago – that will spend EUR&#160;250 million over five years financing the efforts of third countries to combat illegal immigration at source.
The Commission welcomes the support that the Pirker Report gives to the Commission communication.
The main policy recommendations put forward in the communication were endorsed by the European Council in Thessaloniki and further developed at its meeting in Brussels in October 2003.
A major boost was therefore given in 2003 towards completing the policy framework for common management of migratory flows.
Nevertheless, these positive developments must be complemented by substantial progress in other areas of migration policy, and in particular legal migration and asylum.
The Commission has proved to be capable of delivering what was announced in the communication and requested by the Council in Thessaloniki, and moreover within very tight deadlines in some cases.
Other proposals, such as visa information systems, a financial instrument for return management and a proposal for a directive on minimum standards for return procedures, will follow soon.
Following political agreement on the main elements regarding the External Borders Agency, it is now important that the Council armed with the opinion of the European Parliament formally adopt the proposal as soon as possible.
The need for such a system was mentioned in our communication on illegal immigration in 2001.
The Thessaloniki European Council asked the Council and the Commission to focus on the legal and technical arrangements for the development of the VIS.
The Council is expected to agree very soon on the basic elements of the system, including its architecture and functions, taking into account financial aspects and the choice of biometric identifiers.
The Commission intends to present the first instrument for the development of the VIS in the coming weeks.
The Council has arrived at a common approach to these proposals, pending the opinion of the European Parliament.
National traditions, cultural peculiarities, massive or residual xenophobia and a greater or lesser openness to the claims of minorities explain the differences between the Member States’ immigration policies.
Refugee status is particularly attractive when immigration or staying in a country legally has become virtually impossible, and it is in fact the only door that stands ajar for entry to many of our countries.
The many attempts to take advantage of it by persons not strictly covered by the Geneva Convention but who fall into the much wider category of economic migrants, attempts which are sometimes exploited by organised crime, have cast suspicion on all applicants and provided a pretext for considerable restrictions on the right to asylum, which is appalling.
With rising populism symptomatic of xenophobia, many fear seeing the common treatment of the immigration issue take on a dangerously repressive hue, although we know full well that such a policy is no answer to the problems but that, quite the contrary, it risks enflaming them.
I want to conclude by saying that stepping up the fight against terrorism must not be allowed to affect the integrity of our immigration and asylum policies and in particular the substantial development of our national integration policies.
Immigration is a reality and we will always have to deal with flows of migrants into Europe seeking work or fleeing persecution.
Illegal immigration will not be eliminated simply by opening channels for legal immigration, that is true, but legal immigration may help to give a positive direction to our society’s development.
In general, I am able to support the report’s overall objective of strengthening cooperation and coordination within the EU in these essential and cross-border areas of policy.
We still do not know what would be the effects of the many sensible proposals, such as those for increased cooperation and coordination between the Member States’ customs and border authorities.
Thirdly, there is simply no legal basis in the existing Treaties for a federal corps of border guards and, even if the Convention’s proposals for new Treaty wordings were adopted, it is doubtful if there would be a legal basis for such a corps.
I recognise that, in its present form, the proposal to introduce an EU corps of border guards simply proposes a model according to which the Member States might voluntarily make use of this force.
At the same time, it is clear, however, that, if the introduction of a corps of border guards were to have any meaning at all, the Commission would, in the long term, plan to delegate a number of EU tasks to that body.
I am myself rapporteur for the report on which Parliament is to adopt a position, and it will not be long before we have a debate on it.
At the same time, it is, however, crucial for me to emphasise that what I want is a common policy in this area and not a common police force. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I note our rapporteur’s concern to strike a balance between secure borders and respect for basic rights and I welcome our committee’s work to give this report a more humanitarian face.
Despite all these efforts, the Tampere agenda will not, however, be kept to.
Many of the Commission’s proposals are at present pending before the Council.
The few measures that have been taken come in for regular criticism and the directive on family reunification is still the subject of an appeal by our Parliament before the Court of Justice.
In reality, this results in an intensive and often disproportionate struggle against illegal immigration, which is considered a threat, a source of terrorism and a destabilising factor.
That is therefore the vision of the Council and the Member States, a highly security-conscious, repressive and utilitarian vision geared to their own needs and disregarding the needs of others.
While it is legitimate for the Union to want to protect its residents and its interests, the Member States must be aware that only an overall, integrated approach will produce an effective European policy.
For that, such an approach must at one and the same time include a management of migratory flows that allows legal immigration, the socio-economic, cultural and political integration of third country nationals and cooperation with third countries in a Community framework.
All too often, the democratic deficit goes hand in hand with the social and humanitarian deficit.
We must not, however, bury our heads in the sand: illegal immigration is also a necessity for our economy.
This effectively plunders the productive forces of the South.
The Union’s policy for fighting illegal immigration will not be credible without measures to combat moonlighting, but instead of penalising those who come to our countries looking for hope, we should be penalising employers who shamelessly exploit immigrants who have no papers.
Any returning of people whose situation is irregular must fully respect their human rights and comply with international conventions, including the right to seek asylum.
While the Member States must specifically retain their competences regarding the security of their external borders and the establishment of domestic immigration quotas, it is equally necessary and urgent to set up effective transnational cooperation to create a common on visas, border control and repatriation, as the rapporteur has underlined.
An effective coordination policy, the harmonisation of certain procedures and the prompt exchange of information would make it possible to combat illegal immigration more effectively, as well as many other criminal activities that are linked to it: drug trafficking and trafficking in human beings, to give just a couple of examples.
In any case, it should be underlined that the European Union should strengthen its external relations with all those non-Community countries that want to collaborate effectively in combating illegal immigration and should also promote the so-called special quota policy for such countries.
I should like to give a few examples of these.
The protection of external borders remains, in principle, a national concern.
Cooperation is necessary, but this cooperation can also take a less far-reaching form than the Commission is proposing.
Finally, I fully support the Commission’s wish that the budgetary dimension of the solidarity principle be recognised in the field of immigration and border controls, provided that this principle is also recognised in other fields, such as asylum policy and the reception of refugees. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union faces a growing problem of illegal immigration.
An integrated and global approach must be developed, in order to prevent and eradicate this phenomenon and to combat its underlying causes.
If he had asked me whether it was possible to draft a report on immigration or asylum for our committee and win almost unanimous support for it, or bring it to plenary and find that with a few exceptions it was voted through, I would have said that would have been impossible.
Everyone is affected by external borders, even in countries that do not have them.
As we ponder all these issues, it is equally important that we look further afield to those countries just outside the European Union and bear in mind their situation, as well as that of countries further afield which are less prosperous and from which people, for a whole variety of reasons, try to move away.
I hope we can in future move away from the term 'burden-sharing' and adopt the term 'responsibility-sharing', because that, and cooperation, is what is involved here. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Members such as myself have complained over the last five years that when the Council holds debates, purportedly about asylum and immigration as a whole, it only ever talks about combating illegal immigration.
Indeed, in his report, on which I also congratulate him, there are 15 references to illegal immigration.
Obviously we need to have maximum coordination and exchanges to provide a more uniform level of security at external borders, but there is plenty more we can do about that before rushing into a centrally managed EU body that would raise all kinds of legal difficulties regarding border guards exercising power outside their own jurisdiction.
Imagine, for example, the case of Euro-guards stationed on a border where local pay rates were lower than elsewhere, and the resentment that would create among lower-paid local staff.
Finally, I urge the British Government to recognise the contradictions in its own approach.
It constantly lectures other Member States on the need to strengthen external border controls, but refuses to make any constructive contribution to Schengen or to support the common immigration policy.
There are some interesting aspects in it that I can support, but the issue of the creation of border guards with police powers is a disturbing development.
I listened to the speaker from the UEN Group, who lumped illegal immigrants in with drugs traffickers, but there is a big difference between the two.
We should in fact be addressing the issue of why people want to enter the European Union, instead of building our barricades higher.
More and more people are being driven into the hands of people traffickers and, as my colleague has said, the whole issue of work practices and exploitation needs to be tackled.
We have to examine, with regard to illegal immigration, the root cause of why people have to leave their own country, and this is a human rights issue rather than a criminal issue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a Community policy on the movement of third country nationals must be innovative and responsible.
Innovative, as the report states, in the close interaction between, on the one hand, enhanced measures against illegal immigration and, on the other, a policy in the field of legal immigration that is geared towards Member States’ capacities and needs.
It does not necessarily mean consolidating our external borders, turning the Union into a fortress, but nor does it mean opening up these borders willy-nilly, leaving to their fate the individuals who are anxious to enter our countries.
We do not want these people to live in our countries without being integrated, without participating, benefiting or having obligations towards the Community that they are joining.
It is this dialogue between rights and obligations, defining the way people function within society, that we want to maintain.
This is a question of honouring commitments that have been given.
The services sector includes a wide range of services in the public and private sectors.
Over the last 20 years, around 2/3 of the growth in the gross domestic product of the European Union has come from the services sector, while the greatest increase in the employment rate has again been in this sector.
The aim of our policy must be to increase this percentage and it is worth mentioning that, in the United States, the corresponding figure is 80%.
At the same time, we must pay attention to the fact that the situation in the development of the services sector differs from one Member State to another in the European Union.
The rates are equally low, with the exception of Cyprus, in the new Member States.
Our policy, at both European and national level, must play a significant role in the development of services.
As a matter of urgency, accurately targeted measures must be drawn up and implemented to guarantee a satisfactory level of protection in such a way that service providers and services themselves can establish themselves throughout Community territory.
The completion of this infrastructure depends upon the liberalisation of the energy and telecommunications markets, so that we have easy and cheap access to them, and on the trans-European networks programme, in order to increase the potential of the market.
The Committee also calls on the European Commission to propose a directive on services within the framework of the internal market, in order to deal with obstacles to the movement of workers and the provision of services.
We therefore need, both in the private sector and in the public sector, which is lagging well behind, to invest in innovation and research and to link our policy on services with policy to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and the industrial sector in general, because industry and services are interdependent.
I should like to refer to certain issues in the guidelines which basically coincide with the proposals in the report.
One important section of the proposals is therefore addressed in the guidelines on employment.
A second category of Commission initiatives and proposals concerns investment in human resources.
The third important Commission initiative is that yesterday it approved a proposal for a directive on services within the framework of the internal market.
So, taking account of these three sectors: first, the specific guidelines in the strategy on employment which essentially and to a large extent relate to the need to develop services; secondly, the need for investment in human resources and, thirdly, the directive on services within the framework of the internal market, I think that, on the part of the European Union, there is an important framework which could help the Member States to implement their individual national policies.
Mr President, the development of the services sector constitutes the great hope of the young generations for their integration into the new economy.
As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which did me the honour of appointing me to draft our opinion, I should like to refer to certain aspects which link the internal market with the development of the job market, especially the services market, and with policies against exclusion.
As we all know, the future of the internal market and the essential benefit to consumers will depend on the degree to which cross-border trade develops.
Consequently, one of our first concerns is to remove the obstacles to the cross-border development of services, limit the problems which still exist in free movement and establishment and further facilitate the recognition of professional qualifications, without clinging to the shackles of the past which, unfortunately, numerous associations of the liberal professions still persist in doing.
Furthermore, in order to strengthen the cross-border provision of services, both with the direct provision of services to consumers and with business-to-business services, we need to look at strengthening e-commerce and, from that perspective, to promote and develop the new standards of consumption which produce services and, of course, guarantee consumer confidence.
Given, moreover, that the charter for small and medium-sized enterprises already constitutes an initiative in which we have invested a great many expectations, we need to look at the possibilities, either through funding or by guaranteeing the insurance rights and strengthening the initiative of young people who want to break into the services sector in the form of self-employment or by setting up small undertakings.
We also all know that a significant part of all services which are provided to a society are taken up by services of general interest.
The policy on services of general economic interest to date has, according to the evaluations, brought about positive results.
This sector is, in fact, a catalyst for job creation and, as such, must be given due attention.
Consequently, if we wish to achieve the objectives set out at Lisbon, we must act and act swiftly.
The Member States have a crucial role to play in this matter, since it is they, together with the social partners, who must develop a clear and effective framework for the services sector.
Lastly, I wish to underline the need for the Commission and the Member States to promote an open method of coordination for national employment policies in the services sector, with the aim of exchanging information and best practice. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by personally congratulating the rapporteur on her work and the exhaustive nature of her proposals in the job-creating service sector.
For all that, to make things clear, after those personal congratulations, as spokesman for the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, I have to express our reservations about the constant reference to competition, the market and its rules and also our disagreement with an over-strict application of the principle of mutual recognition in a sector that also covers public services and services of the social economy.
Neither must it be forgotten, and I will be brief on this point today, that we do not consider the de-industrialisation of Europe to be inevitable, especially since, in terms of jobs, it is and will be increasingly difficult to compensate for the disappearance of industrial jobs by jobs in the service sector.
Having said that and pointed it out, it is very important to note, as you did, Mrs&#160;Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, the importance of this service sector, just as it is important to identify the potential and the conditions for job creation.
But at this stage I want to say equally clearly that there is a need for legal, legislative or contractual controls in order to avoid abuses that result in precariousness such as exists in the US system.
That is why we must upgrade the existing professions in the service sector in order to offer quality jobs with correct remuneration and working conditions.
We must increase the quality of this new form of employment, part-time working as it happens, ensuring that the same high level of protection and job security is guaranteed to all workers and improving the working conditions of women.
Finally, we must increase cooperation in the fight against undeclared work.
Our rapporteur and the members of our committees have worked well.
And while, like the majority of my group, I do not think that the implementation of these measures will solve all the fundamental problems of work and employment, I am, Mr President, personally in favour of every form of improvement, provided those improvements are real. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to convey my thanks to the rapporteur.
One of the future challenges concerns the way in which those services do not necessarily move within one Member State or across borders, but indeed out of the European Union altogether.
As the rapporteur pointed out in the report, women are overwhelmingly employed in the service sector.
Indeed certain jobs are very heavily gendered, particularly in the public and care services.
Many of these sectors also have a significant number of migrant, black and ethnic minority workers, so they are important in terms of integration and social inclusion.
The EU must step up cooperation in combating ‘black’ work.
Secondly, the European Parliament should call upon the Member States to develop and stimulate the support and household-related service sector in order to make it easier to combine working life and family life, especially in the light of the European Union’s having identified the demographic challenge as one of its most important issues for the future.
Fourthly, the European Parliament should emphasise to the Member States the urgent importance of increasing opportunities for disabled people and immigrants to have access to the labour market in the service sector.
Such improvements are necessary in the light of future needs in, for example, the health and health care sectors, as well as in order to increase these groups’ participation and integration in the labour market and in the social community.
Furthermore, the range of services is extremely broad, from transport to education, from commerce to hotels and catering, from tourism to leisure activities and, furthermore, the services are greatly affected by demographic changes in society.
Mr President, we must not forget ongoing training, since, as the rapporteur says, a services sector with low salaries means a low level of quality, qualifications and productivity, and that means a reduction in the economy’s capacity to generate innovation, sustainable wealth and social cohesion. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It did this by providing greater legal certainty and making it possible to identify the working conditions that apply to workers temporarily working in a Member State other than the State whose legislation governs the employment relationship.
As provided for in Article 8 of Directive 96/71/EC, in the current communication the Commission summarises the results of its review of the implementation of the Directive in the 15 Member States and of its practical application, in order to decide whether the Directive needs to be revised.
The communication shows that implementation of the Directive has, generally speaking, been satisfactory, although it should be noted that the United Kingdom and Ireland have no specific implementing provisions and that Luxembourg was the last Member State to complete transposition, which it did only 13 months ago.
I would like to reiterate that five years of highly problematic debates were needed before the Posting of Workers Directive was adopted in 1996.
It has now been shown that difficulties have arisen, in that the directive requires the businesses to which it applies to comply with the laws of a State other than that in which they are established, laws which are sometimes not readily accessible or comprehensible.
These problems need to be resolved at national level, as they are problems related to the transposition of the Directive into Member States’ legislation, which can result in difficulties in monitoring compliance with it.
In its communication, the Commission summarises the problems involved in transposing and applying the Directive, which are more practical than legal in nature.
It has, in consequence, set up a group of experts – made up of civil servants from the Member States – with the objective of finding solutions to the problems described, such as ways of improving access to, and exchange of, information on national rules and legislation or of collecting required information in a standard form.
The Committee is still of the opinion that this directive is a necessary one, and expresses the hope that the problems brought to light may be speedily removed, particularly in view of the fact that, on 1 May this year, 10 new countries will be covered by the Directive.
We also call on the Commission to examine the provisions regulating liability in the case of subcontracting in with the Posting of Workers Directive.
The Committee also believes that the Commission should support the group of experts and that this work should involve the collective bargaining partners, the European Parliament, the governments and parliaments of the Member States and the social partners.
As regards the practical operation of the directive and its implementing legislation, we all agree that it is necessary to improve cooperation between the administration of the Member States on the one hand, and the dissemination of information on the applicable terms and employment conditions for workers and service providers on the other hand.
My services will evaluate the existing difficulties there will be cooperation between my services, a group of government experts and social partners.
We will discuss it in the liaison forum, which has been scheduled for 10 February, and will try to find practical solutions to political problems.
As far as the accession countries are concerned and the rapporteur has already underlined the importance of the implementation of this directive in these countries they have to transpose and implement this directive by 1 May.
The Commission will prepare a report on the implementation of this directive in the course of this year; we hope to present it by the end of 2005.
Even though I am not convinced that substantial amendment of the text of the directive is necessary at this stage, I can assure you that my services will pay close attention to the arguments raised by national administrations and the social partners in their respective contacts.
Within the context of the free movement of people, the report focuses on the posting of workers in three possible circumstances: posting within the framework of a contract signed between the company of origin and the receiver of the services; secondly, the possible posting of workers to a workplace or company which belongs to the same group; and thirdly, the posting of workers from a temporary work agency based in a Member State which provides them for a employer acting in a Member State other than that of the provider.
Any of these circumstances can cause a variety of problems for posted workers: probably the first to spring to mind concerns their working conditions; hence the importance of Directive 96/71/EC, which is a catalogue of minimum rules for Community law protection, although it is insufficient, since it does not cover rules or aspects such as Social Security.
I believe the rapporteur has identified the problems correctly: unfair competition, differences in social protection and, therefore, harm for workers, the need for a clear definition of the Workers’ Statute.
I know from my conversations over the past years on the largest building site in the centre of Berlin that the people we are dealing with here are the working poor.
The Glase Report gives that question a clear answer: the Directive is the proper instrument for guaranteeing equal pay for equal work at the same place of work, but the way in which the Member States apply it is atrocious.
There was the period in which a good few people from the United Kingdom, in particular, came to work on the continent; and there was the period in which a good few people, chiefly from Eastern Europe, came here to work.
I agree that the practical implementation is far from ideal, but we must recognise that this is ultimately a matter for national governments.
If we fail to implement these, we can indeed expect a problem or two; not because people want that, but because there are always people who are on the lookout for loopholes in legislation and perhaps go on to exploit these, and that then produces all manner of undesirable repercussions.
I think that the Member States must improve the practical implementation of the existing Directive, but I also think that the Commission – and we, too – must advocate that this matter be well organised, because otherwise we shall endanger the actual, practical implementation of enlargement in the sphere of labour markets.
The failure to implement these types of rule is not considered terribly important in the long term, but it leads to the decline of social systems.
The vote will be tomorrow at noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question to the Commission (O-0076/2003 – B5-0417/2003), by Stephen Hughes, Proinsias de Rossa and Jan Andersson on behalf of the PSE Group, on harassment at the workplace. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the question has been circulated and I would put it to you and to the Commissioner that action in this area is long overdue.
I also realise on rereading our question that at least one element of it looks a little silly, namely the part that asks: 'Does the Commission intend to act rapidly in this field?' The answer is clearly 'no'.
The truth is that many Members of this House are becoming increasingly angry and frustrated at the disgraceful way in which work by the Commission on health and safety matters has ground to a complete halt in recent years.
I would remind you that the programme of the Irish Presidency contains 2 directives: one is being completed and for the other, which concerns problems in the field of optical radiation, a dialogue is due to start with the social partners, as is the first seminar of the Irish Presidency.
The Commission presented a communication with a White Paper on health and safety for the years up to 2006, which clearly states that the Commission will examine the suitability and advisability of a Community measure on psychological harassment and violence at work.
At this specific stage, the Commission services are working on this particular problem, collecting and analysing the information available in all the countries.
This analysis takes account, among other things, of the legislative and regulatory initiatives which are being approved or planned in each Member State, together with the results from and difficulties in implementing them.
I should point out here that, depending on the reactions of the social partners to these consultations, the choice of specific Community legislation with the aim of preventing all forms of violence at work is one but not always the only action.
In fact, the new Community health and safety at work strategy for 2002-2006 refers to the possibility of using a combination of the means available, both legislative and non-legislative.
Finally, the Commission considers that bullying and harassment are specific forms of violence at work.
The report discusses in depth the causes and effects of bullying and sexual harassment in the workplace and the circumstances that lead to it.
The extent to which violence and harassment occur in the workplace amounts to an extremely serious problem.
It has an effect even on people’s private lives, is a burden on social security funds and hampers general economic performance.
The social partners, legislators at national level, educational institutions and associations need especial support in their efforts to combat it.
It would make sense for there to be a European publicity campaign to put this problem centre stage and rouse the public in the EU.
We know how the labour market is changing at present.
The labour market is changing, and working conditions have become uncertain.
Job security also used to be very important.
We have insecurity and less certainty in the workplace, which also means that this problem is probably becoming more serious.
On the earlier occasion, we demanded, firstly, an analysis in the form of a Green Paper providing us with a more detailed picture of the situation and, secondly, possible legislation too, but those were not the only instruments.
Legal instruments and best practice are required in relation to work organisation issues at European level.
In Sweden, we already had legislation, and Belgium has introduced legislation, but otherwise nothing very much has happened.
We need better management and we need to pay closer attention to the issue, but that does not mean we need a legalistic approach.
I suspect that legislation is not going to stop that from occurring! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there have indeed been many initiatives, including in the Member States, aimed at stopping harassment and taking preventive action against it.
We also remember how the Belgian Presidency took an initiative to improve the quality of work, but all that was not enough.
The fact that people are working under greater pressure in many sectors, including the services sector, makes harassment a bigger and more difficult problem.
Commissioner, we know how bold you are when it comes to dealing with the inertia of certain Member States.
The fact is that if employers were to acknowledge this, we would not be having these problems.
Article 31(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights lays down that ‘Every worker has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity’, and, according to Article 1, ‘Human dignity is inviolable.
It is also, ultimately, a question of civilisation and a question of how we see each other as people.
I believe, as previous debaters have said – and we are agreed about this here in the House – that this is an extremely important and undervalued area.
Let us try the route of national legislation in this area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased to hear such sensible words emanating from the PPE-DE Group.
They were part of the original physical agents proposal.
I am glad that there has been movement in Council, but these are very old proposals.
We all agree that it is a very complicated issue in terms of defining the problem, in terms of legislating and in terms of achieving an agreement between the Member States, because there are huge differences involved.
A study is already underway, the first part of which is about preventing violence and harassment in the workplace.
After much discussion and analysis and many studies involving experts, no real approach has emerged that suggests that the problems in question can be solved by legislation.
The debate is closed. (1)
