Formal sitting and debate - 10th anniversary of the euro The next item is the formal sitting and debate on the 10th anniversary of the euro. (Film) Mr Juncker, Mr Giscard d'Estaing, Mr Trichet, Mr Almunia, Mrs Berès, ladies and gentlemen.
The first of January 2009 was the 10th birthday of our currency, the euro.
In view of the size of the economy of the euro area and the fact that the majority of its trade is internal, the euro area has proven to be much better equipped to withstand economic shocks than the Member States previously were with their national currencies.
Without the European Central Bank and the European System of Central Banks acting as a stabilising factor, the situation in the European Union last autumn would have been considerably worse.
However, the creation of the euro was not just a decision with economic and financial effects; it also sent a very clear signal that the European Union is in a position to implement far-reaching decisions in order to build a common, prosperous future.
I am convinced that this step-by-step expansion will help to strengthen the entire euro area, as well as being a symbol of a common, peaceful European future, particularly for young people in the European Union.
The importance of the European Central Bank simply cannot be overestimated. (Applause) Our thanks also go, in particular, to Alexandre Lamfalussy, the President of the European Monetary Institute, whom we met yesterday evening, and who is also taking part in a colloquium now.
The European Parliament and its committee responsible for such matters, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, chaired at the time by Karl von Wogau and then by Christa Randzio-Plath, have also had a part to play as a driving force in this historic project over the years leading from the currency snake to the creation of the single currency.
The same applies to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in its current incarnation, chaired by Pervenche Berès, to whom we are grateful for the idea of this celebration.
Since the euro was launched 10 years ago, the European Central Bank and the Eurogroup have cultivated an increasingly close relationship with the European Parliament.
Today the single currency is a reality for 329 million of our fellow European citizens.
I cannot help but think about our founding fathers - Robert Schuman, Walter Hallstein, Alcide de Gasperi, Pierre Werner, Sicco Mansholt and Paul-Henri Spaak - who, as we saw a few moments ago, were visionaries to whom we owe the European Union.
Since the introduction of the euro, our fellow citizens have known a level of price stability that few in the euro area had achieved before.
The single currency is a factor for dynamism in the European economy.
Parliament was the first institution in Europe to make proposals for a single currency, back in 1962.
In the past 10 years, since the establishment of the ECB, our institutions have maintained a very close and fruitful dialogue.
This dialogue has involved over 50 hearings of the members of the Executive Board of the ECB before this Parliament and the committees mentioned by the President.
The dialogue between Parliament and the ECB is very important in terms of accountability, allowing the ECB to explain its decisions and actions to the general public through their elected representatives.
Current challenges are pressing and new challenges will arise.
The solidity of the single currency rests on two pillars: a monetary policy geared towards price stability and a set of sound economic policies - which are very much in defence of the Eurogroup, Mr Prime Minister.
The European Union itself is the best example of this, along with the internal market and enlargement, in other words, with the renewal of ties between Europe's geography and history, and along with the Economic and Monetary Union, whose 10th anniversary we celebrate today.
The path which led to the creation of the Economic and Monetary Union and the introduction of our single currency was a long one, and the genesis of the Economic and Monetary Union after the initial impulse of the Werner report in 1970 demonstrates this.
It was a long genesis which went via the monetary snake, the European Monetary System, the creation of the ecu in 1979, the 1989 Delors plan, the Maastricht Treaty in 1992, and also the Danish 'no' and the French 'yes', which at the time was said to be small, without forgetting the 1993 crisis in the European Monetary System.
At the time, there were many who criticised the single currency both in the political and academic worlds, without mentioning the notable number of central bankers who felt that the Economic and Monetary Union could not or should not be achieved and that if, despite everything, it were to come into being, the single currency, in brief, would be weak and without a future.
It is important for me to take advantage of the 10th anniversary of this key event in European integration to pay homage, in my turn, to those men who created the euro, such as Pierre Werner, Helmut Kohl, François Mitterrand, Jacques Delors, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing and others.
Since 1 January of this year, 16 Member States have been participating in the Economic and Monetary Union and the euro is the currency of almost 330 million European citizens.
The euro area economies are better protected against negative economic developments because being part of the euro area is a mark of quality certifying that its members have a real capacity for implementing prudent macroeconomic policies and policies based on sustained growth and prosperity for its citizens.
This balancing demands the active cooperation of the major economies in America, Asia and Europe.
Economic and Monetary Union is, of course, an economic project, but it is, first of all, a political project.
The euro is the second of the world's currencies and, thanks to its role in the international economy, is already comparable in some respects to the dollar as an instrument of commerce and means of payment in international finance.
Above all, though, the euro is part of the daily life of nearly 330 million people in 16 countries of the European Union.
The euro has provided a clear boost to trade and investment among its Member States.
The Stability and Growth Pact, reformed in 2005, has encouraged governments to sort out their public accounts, leading in 2007 to the lowest budget deficit for 25 years, which is now enabling them to face the crisis in a better situation.
Throughout this crisis, the actions of the European Central Bank have done nothing but reinforce the solid reputation that it had already earned in the early years of Economic and Monetary Union.
The economic situation is not as we would have hoped as we celebrate this anniversary, but events are highlighting more than ever the advantages of Economic and Monetary Union.
The European Commission and Parliament must continue working with Member States, the Eurogroup, the European Central Bank and the international community in order to place our economies on the path to the sustainable resumption of growth.
In this regard, the Commission's recommendations in the report that we submitted a few months ago on the first 10 years of Economic and Monetary Union, which was recently debated in this Chamber, are as valid or even more valid today than they were last spring.
Mr President, Mr Juncker, Mr Trichet, ladies and gentlemen, everyone who has been involved in creating the European currency is grateful to you, Mr President, and to you, ladies and gentlemen, for this very fine initiative which you have taken in commemorating the 10th anniversary of the birth of the euro.
I am one of those people who think that it is better to avoid the ever-increasing number of commemoration ceremonies, but this one is justified because it marks the greatest contribution to European integration since the election of the European Parliament by universal suffrage in 1979.
We can find its distant origins in the report from the Luxembourg prime minister, Pierre Werner, your predecessor, in 1970.
After the unsuccessful attempts to create a monetary snake, the strong momentum from France and Germany between 1975 and 1980 led to the meeting in Bremen, in northern Germany, and the decision to create the European Monetary System and introduce the ecu, the euro's precursor.
After a period of little activity between 1980 and 1988, the process was given new impetus with the creation by the Council of the committee chaired by Jacques Delors, resulting in the signature of the Maastricht Treaty.
Let us salute the pioneers who have been involved in this along the way, as you yourself have recently, Mr President, as well as my friend, Chancellor Helmut Schmidt and his Secretary of State, Manfred Lahnstein; Bernard Clappier, the governor of the Banque de France at the time and co-author of Robert Schuman's Declaration in 1950; Alexandre Lamfalussy, who provided us with his great, almost unique expertise during the work of the committee on European monetary union which we set up with Helmut Schmidt to relaunch the project; Jacques Delors, President of the European Commission, who took over; and, last but not least, the negotiators and signatories of the Maastricht Treaty who drafted an excellent text, which has not actually been touched since then, headed by Chancellor Helmut Kohl and President François Mitterrand, whose determination must be mentioned in particular, along with their other colleagues.
In 10 years the euro has become the number two currency in the world and, as has been mentioned just now, one of the most respected currencies.
The euro is Europe's currency and must express its distinct culture, promoting a rational and stable model among the world's other currencies.
I would also, however, like to pay tribute to the actions of your predecessors, Mr President, the actions of my predecessors, Karl von Wogau, who is still with us, and of Christa Randzio-Plath, who is also with us today.
The actions of this Parliament played a crucial role in that, at the time of the transition to the euro, we were not only concerned about the transfer of accounts in the banks but also about our citizens, so that they could adapt to, get used to and adopt this new currency which was going to be theirs.
It is not normal for Member States to borrow at such different rates of interest when they have the same currency and the same rate of interest set by the European Central Bank.
President Giscard d'Estaing mentioned Article 105(6), which is our common platform, allowing us to make progress.
If the European Central Bank sees its responsibilities strengthened, it will have to be indicated how the institutional balance on the whole needs to be established in the future.
I would like to make one final remark on the international role of the euro.
The previous speaker reminded us of all those who contributed to this, of the milestones, of the European monetary system, which was an agreement with the European Central Bank to create central rates, of the Delors report, which provided for the introduction of the monetary union in three stages, of the Treaty of Maastricht - only two years after the fall of the Wall - and of the transitional periods.
On 18 November Parliament adopted, with a large majority, a report in which we describe the successes, challenges, risks and problems, and I would like to mention just a few things in addition to what Mrs Berès has said.
It is important that, in future, the connection between these two levels of responsibility in the Stability and Growth Pact are retained also during times of crisis.
It has passed the first test and has provided a unique contribution to the permanent integration of our nations in Europe.
Yet the idea that Europe could create a single currency, whose foundations were laid especially in the Bremen agreement on the monetary system in 1978 and the creation of the ecu, would have been met at the time with scepticism from the markets and the main monetary authorities outside Europe.
The creation of the euro is the best proof that Europe is capable, given the political will, to take long-term decisions for a common, prosperous future.
The European Central Bank has certainly been the most responsive central bank.
President Mitterrand and Chancellor Kohl were also the political architects of the euro, even though there were many who supported this monetary success, starting with Jacques Delors.
Thanks to the consistent actions of Wim Duisenberg, Jean-Claude Trichet and the likes, the euro has become the world's second reserve currency in 10 years.
The euro will have a key role to play in this new stability.
The European Central Bank (ECB) has done what it needed to do in the face of a global financial crisis 'made in the USA'.
The ECB is only in charge of monetary policy.
Although the effective harmonisation of the cumulative economic power of 27 states could work miracles, the Eurogroup, in spite of the commendable efforts of Jean-Claude Juncker, still only remains an informal discussion group.
In the spring of 1999, I was able to witness the attempt made within the Eurogroup by a few finance ministers, including Oskar Lafontaine, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, Carlo Ciampi and a few others, to establish economic and monetary cooperation between the European Union and the European Central Bank.
Mr President, Mr Giscard d'Estaing, Mr Juncker, Mr Trichet, Mr Almunia, ladies and gentlemen, I find it very regrettable that relatively few Members are here today for this formal sitting, because it really is a historic event.
The euro has now been accepted, and even enthusiastically welcomed by many citizens.
Even so, it is worth pointing out that the mean inflation rate over the first 10 years of the euro has been approximately 2%, in other words more or less on the target that the European Central Bank set itself.
It can therefore be said that the European Central Bank has performed very well.
The crisis has taught us that we need some kind of European supervision of the financial market, and this is an area where the European Central Bank can play a major role.
The euro's international role needs to be further strengthened.
The euro area will only be able to meet these challenges if the economic policies of the Member States can be more closely interlinked.
It was the result of the free coming together of 11 governments who believed in the creation of an economic and monetary union, as laid down in the Treaties, as an essential step in attempting to achieve the political union that still unfortunately remains out of our grasp.
The measures introduced by the European Central Bank (ECB) and the Commission to combat the current crisis have acted as a buffer and a form of containment but we still maintain, as we have often done in this Chamber, that we find it inconceivable to have a monetary policy disconnected from economic policy.
Admittedly, the actual situation is somewhat anomalous: 16 Member States with the single currency, 27 national economic policies coordinated by the Commission as well as it can, and 11 Member States with national currencies.
Coordinating a monetary policy with an economic policy that does not actually exist is certainly no mean feat, but if the institutions responsible for economic policies in our countries do not communicate with the central banks and the ECB, which has to pull all those policies together, and vice versa, the European Union will find new difficulties in jointly facing up to the current crisis and also the continual challenges that the outside world and globalisation bring home to us.
The very recent energy crisis has also shown us that a common economic policy on the main strategic topics is of vital interest to the public and cannot be delayed.
Mr President, Mr Giscard d'Estaing, Mr Juncker, Mr Trichet, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you how, in 1992, when it was still completely dubious as to whether the French would vote in favour of the Maastricht Treaty, Jacques Delors spoke to the general assembly of the French Green Party, which managed to deliver the missing 1% or 2%.
Firstly, price stability has been established at a level of slightly less than, but close to, 2%.
Secondly, the European Central Bank's objective is not only to maintain a rate close to 2% but also to apply Europe's policy, by that I mean the Lisbon and Gothenburg Strategies.
Lastly, as has already been mentioned, there needs to be supervision at a European level and the European Central Bank is in the best position to perform this function.
This European Central Bank policy has resulted in the contraction of the European economy, clearly demonstrating the need for further reductions in the reference interest rates.
It was last July when the European Central Bank put interest rates up, just at the very moment that the markets were going into meltdown and rates were being slashed across the rest of the world.
You can boo, you can jeer, but remember this: Britain outside of the euro has been able to devalue, has been able to slash interest rates.
Jeer on if you like, but have you noticed that on the bond markets this morning Greek bonds are trading 233 basis points higher than German bonds?
Bond spreads between Greece and Germany have reached unprecedented levels - over 200 basis points.
The markets are speculating on a euro break-up.
The euro has been a rock of stability for its members, as illustrated by the contrasting fortunes of Iceland and Ireland.
Firstly, from the moment when the euro was introduced, in other words from 2002 to 2007 inclusive, the three Member States which were outside the euro area (England, Sweden and Denmark) developed faster than the countries which were in the euro area.
Secondly, the battle with the effects of the current financial and economic crisis is clearly more effective in those countries than in the euro area.
It also seems that the fiscal policy pursued by these countries will be more effective than the fiscal policy in the euro area.
Some of these criteria are mutually contradictory, such as the need to be present in the ERM II system - and therefore the need to maintain the national currency's exchange rate against the euro within a fluctuation band of ±15% - and at the same time to maintain a low level of inflation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, European Economic and Monetary Union began on 1 January 1999, and 11 EU Member States adopted the single currency at the same time.
The euro was 10 years old on 1 January 2009.
The euro has been an unquestionable success, but would not have been but for the continuous efforts made.
From 1 January 2009 the euro will link the people of Slovakia to the Union every day.
Since the euro was launched on 1 January 1999, the single currency has, in many respects, proven to be an important factor in the stability of the EU economy.
This is the kind of attitude which we also need this year in order to devise and successfully implement measures to combat the financial crisis.
