I raised this matter last week with the French Minister for European Affairs.
This led me to write a letter that The Times printed, saying the European taxpayer would find it more profitable not to subsidise this EUR 169 million a year travelling circus to Strasbourg at all.
I think there is no need, Mr President, for me to stress to this House how many and which fundamental rights and international agreements are being violated.
The peace of mind which the families of these 'disappeared' need is more important than the security and safety of the perpetrators of these murders.
This was a clear violation of Article 41 of the Vienna Convention 1961, which forbids diplomats from interfering in the internal affairs of host states.
If I understood correctly, Mr Helmer, you remarked that the reference to 'sexier men' was on literature from the PPE-DE Group.
The decision to delete it is downright illegal, in that it violates Law 14 of 2003 on the operation of political parties.
I believe that this House should look into the question of whether we have adequate protection for whistle-blowers in the European Union.
This trial has been carefully watched internationally and if there is a negative verdict it will undoubtedly be a miscarriage of justice.
Also, during our visit to the prison, the prison governor indicated quite clearly that these three men would not be safe in any prison in Colombia.
Over 70 000 residents are deprived of all political rights and the right to obtain Latvian nationality, because eight months before the break up of the Soviet Union they had not left the Communist Party.
Such is the case of Alfred Rubiks, the president of the Socialist Party, which is represented in parliament, and other important public figures.
Although 45% of the residents of Latvia are Russian speaking, the Russian-speaking universities were closed in 1998 and although the full ban on Russian primary and secondary schools was ultimately revoked in the face of protests, it was limited nonetheless to just 40% of lessons.
In the face of this situation, the European Union is maintaining a stand of guilty tolerance, not to say consent.
Surely it is time for the Commission and the Council of Ministers to do likewise in our common cause of fighting international terrorism.
Mr President, the European Union continues to keep quiet in the face of the major crime being perpetrated in Palestine by Sharon's mafia government.
Mr President, before the August holidays I was in Romania, not least in order to carry out a task assigned to me by the Robert Schuman Foundation, of which I am Secretary-General.
Political pluralism and cultural diversity are values preached by everybody in this House.
That is so because, for the accession countries, it is vital that there should be an overall agreement on the principle that strong, assertive, renewed cultural and political diversity is, at the beginning of the new Millennium, a universal fact of European life.
Be sure, Mr President, of my personal commitment.
Mr President, towards the end of last year the Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee agreed on the final content of the second pillar of the Aarhus Convention, the Directive on public participation in decision-making on the environment.
Of key importance in the acceptance of the outcome of conciliation was the undertaking by the Commission to put forward a proposal on the third pillar of the Aarhus Convention during the first quarter of 2003, which is to say by the end of March this year.
Mr President, on 14 August there was a very serious accident at the oil refinery belonging to Repsol YPF in Puertollano, one of the main refineries in Spain, located in my region of Castilla-la Mancha.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many of you have heard of Ingrid Betancourt, representative of Colombia's Green Party, whose relatives have visited this House on several occasions.
The position of the family and the Colombian Green Party, as well as the European Parliament's Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, has been to encourage a humanitarian exchange, whilst criticising FARC and saying that it is unacceptable to propose a political exchange.
I have had the privilege to visit that plant on behalf of my party in Ireland on two occasions, one of which was the NIREX inquiry.
The Thorp plant has long been a nuclear white elephant for the British people, but the people of Ireland have been totally opposed to it for many years, and will continue to be opposed to it.
I urge you, Mr President, to ask the Commission to monitor this situation very closely under the powers vested in it by means of the Euratom Treaty.
A short while ago, you called for a minute's silence to be observed in memory of the entire United Nations team murdered in Baghdad and there are other indications of this difficult and sometimes tragic summer that we have just been through.
Faced with such environmental disasters, which do not all have natural causes, as we well know, in the face of their human consequences - in Portugal, eighteen people lost their lives in these fires - faced with their economic consequences - hundreds of thousands of hectares have been destroyed and, as a result, thousands of farmers are out of work in central Portugal, the country's poorest region - faced with these thousands of people who can no longer work unless we find jobs for them straightaway and who will be tempted to migrate towards the towns or to the coast, we must take action on all fronts and at all levels.
I therefore thank you once again, Mr President and I thank the European Parliament and all the political groups for giving the Commission this opportunity to bring you up to date on what it is doing, on what it intends to do and on what it has still to do at European level.
The first tool or instrument with which we can provide assistance is the European Union Solidarity Fund.
As many of you know, I have long been interested in the environment and in ecology and, in October 1999, just after being appointed Commissioner, I had to go to Greece in order, Mr President, to assess the damage caused by an earthquake.
This Fund was set up in three months.
It has a fund reserve of EUR one billion per year and is now our main form of assistance for remedying - a little later I shall say a few words about prevention - the damage caused by fires such as those seen in Portugal or those still raging in France.
Not only was the Fund itself set up extremely rapidly, the response that we provide is also extremely rapid.
Portugal's request reached the Commission on 14 August and last week, in other words, two weeks later, we provided an emergency sum of EUR 31.6 million for aid, temporary accommodation, energy supply, repairs to basic infrastructures and for animal feed, because everything has been devastated.
This year, the Solidarity Fund has received five requests and my staff have accepted four of them (the eruption of Etna in Italy, the earthquake in the Molise region, the shipwreck of the Prestige and, of course, Portugal) totalling EUR 88 million.
In 2002, having been in existence for only three or four months, the Fund gave Germany, the Czech Republic and Austria aid totalling EUR 728 million.
Consequently, Portugal informed us that it was going to request the redeployment or reallocation of Community structural funds to the value of EUR 182 million in order to address the reconstruction of the forestry and farming sectors.
As to the Structural Funds, Mr President, please allow me to digress a little: a short while ago, President Cox referred to the departure from this House of Luciano Caveri, who has been extremely important to you and to me, in his capacity as Chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
My third point concerns civil protection.
We do have, in the field of civil protection, a Community response centre established by a Council decision in October 2001 and which has the task of implementing European cooperation in the event of an emergency.
Experience has shown, however, particularly this summer in Portugal, that this centre's current mandate does not, unfortunately, allow it to provide all the assistance that is needed when a major disaster occurs.
This is why the Commission, at the behest of my colleague Mrs Margot Wallström, will, by the end of September, present the fruit of its discussions on how best to address this situation and will submit proposals.
Whatever proposal or measure we submit, I would remind you that civil protection generally remains a national and often even a regional competence and consequently nothing can be done unless the Council of Ministers asks the Commission to submit a project.
I have talked about the Solidarity Fund, the drought and the state of our forthcoming proposals in the field of civil protection.
I therefore wish to highlight the efforts at prevention at all levels: at global level - I shall refer to this again in my summing-up, in the context of Kyoto - and at local level, on the ground at regional or national level.
This now forms an integral part of the Community support mechanism for the civil protection forest services in the Member States.
Lastly, I wish to emphasise that this system also enables a rapid and reliable assessment to be made of the damage caused by forest fires.
This is how we were able, last week, to estimate the surface area of Portugal destroyed by fires to be 400 000 hectares.
If, as all climate experts predict, it is increasingly likely that the current process of global warming will lead to major changes in rainfall distribution and in drought conditions, it is crucial for the Community and for each of its Members to remain at the forefront of the fight against climate change and for their actions in this field to set an example.
No country and no bloc of developed countries such as the Union is in a position to solve a problem of this magnitude on its own or within its own borders.
This is why the Union would like the Kyoto protocol, which has already been ratified by 113 countries representing more than two-thirds of the world's population to enter into force as quickly as possible.
Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, the commitment or the involvement of each Member State is not equal, despite being crucial.
On 22 July, the Commission started court proceedings to ensure compliance with European Union legislation designed to improve air quality in Europe.
This proposal represents a new phase for action undertaken by the European Union to fulfil the obligations imposed on us by the Kyoto Protocol.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in any discussion of natural disasters, of all the things that have happened this summer, we will inevitably touch on the economy, on the hundreds of thousands of hectares of forests destroyed, on a farm economy that has suffered a massive blow, the consequences of which will be felt for a long time, but also and perhaps most importantly, we are bound to talk about the men and women whose property and lives have been affected.
As you know, together with Klaus Hänsch and Íñigo Méndez de Vigo, I have long been involved, on your behalf, in the work of the Convention, in the Praesidium and in the Convention itself.
Consequently, even if this subject appears to be somewhat removed from the fires in Portugal, I should like to mention, in terms of the heatwave and other major scourges affecting the health of Europe's citizens, the need to go further in our common and even Community action, in the field of public health.
It was, as you said in your speech, a tragedy with repercussions in terms of human lives lost and with enormous long-term social, economic and environmental repercussions.
Mr President, Commissioner Barnier, you have described the situation in very clear terms, and I was glad that you, as a former environment minister, also pointed out that disasters do not happen on their own.
Here in the European Union, we are far from creating the conditions in which the Kyoto criteria can be fulfilled.
At the moment, we are at most complying with half the Kyoto criteria, by cutting back on gases that have a detrimental effect upon the climate, causing, for example, global warming, due to greenhouse gases, which occur in agriculture and in waste disposal but especially, in the areas of energy and transport.
At the moment, road traffic accounts for some 20% of total emissions, and in 2010, the deadline for getting in line with the Kyoto Protocol, the figure will be 28%.
It follows that we in the European Union must also, at long last, put solidarity into practice in social services.
Mr President, I too wish to thank Commissioner Barnier for the clarity and the transparency of the balance-sheet that he has presented.
The summer of 2003 has indeed been a real scorcher throughout Europe, from Rovaniemi to the Algarve, and the tragic consequences of this heatwave have been unprecedented.
This has been a cruelly unfair summer in Europe: as we have seen, it is the weakest in society who have been the main victims.
Almost 20 000 elderly people, living alone and in some cases suffering from respiratory disorders, have succumbed to this deadly heat.
This summer, particularly fierce fires have devastated more than 400 000 hectares of forest.
There is another observation I must make: the EUR 23-odd million, which is the cost, to date, of the centralised Community forest fire management and research programme, have not been spent in vain.
Without the assistance of the neighbouring countries that I have just mentioned and in particular without the assistance of the Russian jumbos and their 12-tonne tanks, considerably more than 400 000 hectares would have gone up in smoke.
This is why the Liberals are in favour - and this should answer one of your questions - of creating a European civil protection force that would be responsible for combating forest fires, floods and also for addressing risks posed by industrial disasters in particular.
Increasing human resources in this way must go hand in hand with stepping up material resources.
The Liberal Group supports the Commission in all its efforts to reduce greenhouse gases.
The European Union must, now more than ever, make this protocol its warhorse in its international negotiations.
According to recent estimates, more than 400 000 hectares have been consumed by the flames, the equivalent of 5% of our total land area and 11% of our woodland, with more than 80% of woodland areas destroyed in some municipalities, and damage estimated at more than EUR one billion.
This situation calls for special aid measures, since the amount proposed by the Commission is clearly insufficient, as Commissioner Barnier rightly pointed out during his visit to Portugal.
Over and above expressions of sympathy and solidarity with the victims' families and everyone else affected by this catastrophe, over and above paying tribute to the courage of fire-fighters and the civilian population for their determined efforts to fight the fires despite the scant resources at their disposal, it is imperative that the sum provided by the European Union Solidarity Fund should at the very least equal the amount requested by the Portuguese Government, that is to say, more than EUR 52 million.
While it is true that forest fires constitute a yearly blight consuming hundreds of thousands of hectares in the European Union, especially in the south, it must be borne in mind that this year the atmospheric conditions which plagued Europe served to make matters worse, producing the right conditions for fires on a huge scale which were difficult to fight.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this summer should be, for us politicians, our latest warning finally to take action on climate change.
Faced with this fact, we must put a more resolute policy into effect.
We cannot tolerate governments in Spain, Portugal and Ireland being indifferent to climate change and the European Union being ridiculed at international level because these governments are not assuming their responsibilities.
As Greens, we are in favour of a policy of economic stimulation, but it must take the form of investment in the railways.
A coal-fired power station and a nuclear reactor have a yield of less than 35%.
We need to invest much more in decentralised forms of energy and, as Greens, we would thank you, Mr Barnier, for pronouncing yourself ready to review the criteria relating to the structural and regional funds.
Indeed, it was only when the weather finally relented, on 14 August, about three weeks after the crisis had been unleashed with such great intensity, that we saw it abate.
In recent days, I myself have revisited various areas such as Vila do Rei, Mação and Gavião.
Portugal applied for around EUR 50 million from the Solidarity Fund, and I believe it is right to grant that sum.
I believe that this crisis, which struck my country particularly hard, proves that Parliament was right to adopt the positions we voted for here at first reading and that the representatives of the Italian, Spanish and Portuguese governments were right to abstain from the common position when it was discussed months ago, drawing attention as they did to the need to increase forest fire prevention means under this programme.
I therefore trust that when that regulation returns for second reading in a few weeks' time, we will all unanimously restate the positions adopted by Parliament at first reading and that, as a result, both the Council and the Commission will come to share those Parliamentary positions.
France is also characterised by two very negative factors: the greater difficulty of operating the health care system, particularly in summer, when there is a lack of practitioners and when the working week has been reduced to 35 hours; and the fact that families are apparently more spread out than in neighbouring countries, so that it has been less easy for loyalties of blood to come into play.
Above all, a great task for the EU in the future will be to step up its internal and external actions to combat the greenhouse effect and, therefore, global warming.
With this goal in mind, we wish to see joint research on a large scale put in place, something that is an absolute priority, because on this everything else depends.
With regard to the forests and forest fires, we would first of all express our heartfelt condolences to the victims of these fires, above all in Portugal but also in the other countries that have suffered the same disasters, for we are concerned here with genuine environmental disasters in Southern Europe.
Agricultural policy has caused us to lose some farmers.
Unfortunately, we can now say that, if our countries had had a few more farmers, the areas would have been better maintained and the forests better laid out, not as the only alternative to desertification but in such a way as to have been productive.
We must no doubt review our agricultural policy and, primarily, support our farmers who will suffer the terrible consequences of this drought, since they all say that it will cost them a year's income in order to take account of the consequences of this drought.
We must show, at European level, that we are perfectly capable of putting a community-based policy in place.
Finally, I should also like to talk about water problems, because we have not perhaps been able to put in place a water policy likely to ease the difficulties encountered.
The fires brought to light the weaknesses of a disorganised and irrational forestry system such as we have in Portugal.
Prevention is the keyword and the golden rule in protecting woodland, as several people have already said here today.
The State must take on a new role in reordering and reorganising Portuguese woodlands, as well as in addressing today's climate-related problems throughout Europe.
These forest fires may have become more frequent as a result of climate change, but also as a result of change in the circumstances of the forests and the rural environment.
In this case, the vaccines would take the form of preventative measures and any resources which can act quickly in the event of forest fires.
Commissioner, this year we have seen the devastating effects of forest fires.
I also believe that the measures adopted in this regard within the framework of the common agricultural policy have been positive, in relation to the areas which have had the greatest drought problems.
Just as we ask that in any project there be an environmental impact study, this environmental impact should be extended to the possible impact of forest fires which - I repeat - are an endemic evil in the countries of the south of Europe, the Mediterranean countries.
The consequences of this heatwave for our countries and their populations have been appalling.
In Portugal, as our fellow MEPs have pointed out, fires have destroyed 5% of the country.
It is a national disaster.
The French Government announced on Friday that more than 11 000 additional deaths in connection with the heatwave were recorded between 1 August and 15 August.
In France, the consequences for the affected areas are overwhelming: a loss of 50% to 100% of production is anticipated for non-irrigated cereals in the department of Lot-et-Garonne.
This year, it has been a heatwave, bringing a health crisis in France and an environmental disaster in Portugal and on our Mediterranean coasts.
As regards health, in particular, the Commission must help the Member States to guarantee to all people the rights proclaimed by Article 35 of the Charter, namely the right to have access to preventive health care, even under exceptional climatic conditions.
Where Portugal is concerned, we ask, Commissioner, that the Solidarity Fund be applied above the emergency level to genuinely help the country to bandage all its wounds.
Transport policy has a substantial part to play in this field.
Lastly, I would like to mention one last proposal made in our draft resolution.
Mr President, 12 000 people died in 10 days.
The collective error of ultraliberalism, economism - in the nineteenth century ultraliberalism produced Zola, Victor Hugo, the proletariat and millions of deaths, and ultraliberalism is starting to claim deaths once again.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Commissioner Barnier, who has addressed the tragic events of this summer with his usual clarity and illustrated what the Commission is doing with his customary great skill.
The drought of recent months is yet another indication of how the indisputable change in the earth's climate is having irreparable effects on the environment and on our farming in particular.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as Commissioner Barnier said, it is important that the Union confirms its solidarity with the countries whose forestry resources and agricultural productions have been affected.
In view of this, it would be a very serious mistake to reduce the environmental disaster of this summer to the economic losses it involved.
In effect, it is the first major disaster which is both economic and humanitarian caused by the climate shift in the temperate zone.
However, it is just as important to adapt our health system and our social security networks to protect our elderly people against climate shocks.
Our elderly people, we, ourselves, in the future, will be able to cope with the situation provided that services of general interest are developed to offset it, both in the public sector and in the third sector, the associative and cooperative sector.
Mr President, Commissioner, once again, unfortunately, forest fires have desolated the forests of the Mediterranean, and they have been particularly devastating this summer as a result of the climatic conditions we have suffered.
As well as the loss of human lives, which we have to mourn, as well as the Dante-esque images left behind by the fires and the economic losses they have caused, the magnitude of the disaster which year after year hangs over the forests of the south of Europe and the consequences it has for the European Union as a whole demonstrate the need for a Community policy for protecting the forests against fires, with its own funding, which takes account of the specific nature of Mediterranean forests and which provides for prevention measures as an integral element in the management of forests, as this Parliament had requested at the time.
This differing development also requires differing forest management and requires that, in the Mediterranean forests, management and prevention form part of an inseparable whole, which is the only way to prevent these waves of fires every summer, the seriousness of which depends on the weather conditions.
Community competences in the environmental field as well as the commitment made by the European Union in Kyoto require greater budgetary contributions and greater involvement by the European Union in the fight against fires. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, Commissioner, I should first like to call to mind with sorrow and not a little horror all those whose deaths were associated with the health crisis which so cruelly affected the older generation in our country, France, but also in other countries.
I shall, however, be speaking mainly about the problems of forest fires.
We usually find the appropriate words and our sincerity is not in doubt, but very often we feel powerless to come up with an adequate response at European level.
Moreover, for a long time words were all we had until, following debates that crossed all political divides and on your initiative, Commissioner - and I congratulate you on this - we are setting up this Solidarity Fund, which today meets a widely felt commitment, that is to ensure that the European Union is as close as possible to its people, in particular when they are in great distress.
It was a European regulation, directly accessible to all foresters or public authorities that owned forests, enabling them to invest as a preventive measure - because as you said, Commissioner, prevention is better than cure - in specialised fire-fighting equipment: firebreaks, water supply points, access tracks and so on.
Today another regulation is being proposed to us which serves an entirely different purpose and which does not mention or budget for protecting forests against fire, and that is 'Forest Focus', with a budget of EUR 41 million.
If we were to continue down this road, the conclusion people would draw would be that in 2003, a catastrophic year in terms of fire, the European Union took the decision to abandon its policy of forest-fire protection.
Commissioner, there are quite a number of us here, on all of the benches, who consider that EUR 60 million is a high price to pay to damage Europe's image if, on the day when a disaster of this magnitude were unfolding, we were to abandon a tool which is a preventative tool, which works, which people are happy with, and which foresters the length and breadth of Europe are calling for.
It will perhaps have taken the tragic fires in Portugal for us to return, as I hope we will, to this regulation on protecting forests against fire, which has done us good service and which to abandon would, it seems to me today, send out a very bad signal.
Mr President, Commissioner, at this very moment fire is continuing to ravage part of the Massif des Maures in France.
It really is high time that this stopped, Mr President, Commissioner.
Because this heatwave, as we all know and we have stated this again and again, is a foretaste of the problems we will have to face in the future.
I would like to make a brief appeal to the Commissioner and also to the goodwill of this House concerning what is at stake in Portugal.
On the basis of that assessment, which was drawn up and presented to the Commission, Portugal is eligible to claim almost EUR 100 million (around EUR 95 million) from the European Union Solidarity Fund.
We now have to think about setting in motion economic support mechanisms, both as part of this Community support, restructuring and reworking framework and, in future, within the next Community support framework, the common agricultural policy, regional development policy and rural development policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to extend my sympathies to all of the regions in the south of Europe that have been devastated by terrible fires.
At first reading, the Commission had in fact spoken in favour of rejecting Parliament's amendments integrating fire prevention in 'Forest Focus'.
When it comes to the Community budget, this funding is a drop in the ocean, but, Commissioner, it is a drop of water that will enable many fires to be extinguished.
As Mr Martin and many of my colleagues have said, and I am not going to repeat it, from a political point of view it is not acceptable that the budget set for the only regulation dedicated exclusively to the protection of forests, to pollution and to fires is being reduced by EUR 5 million, and to say that we are now going to combat fires, leaving out prevention, we are going to study pollution, increase biodiversity and also study carbon.
We cannot do many more things with much less money, because 5 million out of EUR 18 million is a very significant percentage.
The south of Europe - France, Spain and Italy - was, regrettably, plagued by fire this summer, but my country, Portugal, was hit particularly hard.
The fires, which affected 15 of our 18 districts, wiped out 5% of our national woodland.
The effects of this tragedy are economic and environmental, but also human.
I should also like to highlight another issue in this debate.
In addition, the CDA delegation in this House is of the opinion that the Commission should initiate a European strategy discussion about quantitative water management.
Qualitatively speaking, European water policy has been a success, but given that floods and water shortages have followed each other in such quick succession for a number of years now, it is necessary for us to do what is needed in the area of effective water management with a view to a future strategy.
Mr Coelho mentioned the speed of payment.
If this catastrophe had happened in Portugal two years ago, the amount would not have been 31.6 million but zero.
We apply these criteria with the utmost impartiality and objectivity and it is the same criteria that are used for floods in Germany, Austria and the Czech Republic as for Portugal.
I would add that if we wish to maintain these activities, not only agriculture or forestry, but activities in rural areas where desertification is a real risk, we also need a regional support policy.
I myself have said what I think on this subject.
I promise you that in the new Cohesion Fund we are going to ensure that we strike a better balance.
I will pass on this suggestion to my colleague David Byrne.
The vote will take place on Thursday.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is expected that the Basel Committee will, this autumn, come to a decision on the equity capital of banks in the future.
I would now like to explain a number of the main points in my report that I see as very important.
The only way we, as responsible politicians, can respond to this process is in the negative.
It is quite clear to me too that Basel II is not a typical Lamfalussy process, as the lawmaking process will find us sharing in decisions on the annexes.
In my own country, people are always talking about small and medium-sized enterprises having a tradition of weak equity capital.
Basel II is to be transposed in 2006 or 2007.
Parliament's interest in this issue is most welcome.
Together with the intensive consultation process that has taken place on the Commission's draft proposals, this debate will contribute strongly to meeting the challenging timetable to adopt a new framework in the European Union at the same time as the new Basel Accord is implemented globally.
I fully share the view expressed in the report that the current rules on capital adequacy need to be revised.
A key objective of the Commission is to ensure that the new framework is suitable not only for large banks but also for less complex banks and for investment firms.
The report also identifies the very important question of the potential cyclical effects of the new rules: what if, in an economic downturn, the risk sensitivity of the new rules results in less availability of credit?
The key lies in striking the right balance between risk sensitivity - and its benefits - and potentially negative cyclical effects.
The consequence of this is that we MEPs find the process of working through this rather complicated; of the Commission, it demands a willingness to cooperate, and that to the utmost.
The first principle demands that the risks entered into by the banks be defined and assessed in an objective way.
The Basel II system - for that is what I am talking about - must maintain a balance.
If the same yardsticks are applied to all these borrowers, the system of evaluation will become more expensive, or the banks will be hindered from giving credit.
It is quite incomprehensible that no detailed analysis has been presented at European level of how the new equity capital rules will affect the conditions under which SMEs raise finance.
The EU average is only 46%.
In Austria, for example, the equity capital of the gastronomy industry is only 1.75%.
I also agree with the aspiration to implement the accord in as near parallel with the United States as possible, to prevent the banking sector in the European Union from suffering a competitive disadvantage.
Many small businesses have nothing to fear from a risk-sensitive framework because there are many small businesses which are very good risks and which therefore can expect to get cheaper finance as a result of Basel II.
That is another very important part of the Radwan report which we, as MEPs, should recognise.
Basel II still needs to be discussed.
The debate has already lasted more than four years and I must say that it is positive that, in particular under the first pillar, the risk weighting function has been lowered and made significantly shallower.
We should, however, finally realise, that Basel II will have an impact, not only on small and medium-sized banks, but also on SMEs.
I would also like to emphasise that it is very important that the crucial points that have been brought up by Charles Goodhart's research group from the London School of Economics should also be clarified, in particular those referring to the procyclicality of Basel II, to which reference has already been made.
Developing a new framework for capital adequacy will maximise the effectiveness of the capital rules in ensuring overall financial stability, maintaining confidence in financial institutions and protecting consumers' and depositors' interests.
These national discrepancies could give rise to competitive inequalities in the single market.
This is a question of the utmost importance for us, especially in the US delegation of the European Parliament, where we have debated these financial security rules.
The Commission agrees that this is very important, and it is also recognised in the report that we are discussing here today.
This concern is also reflected in the draft report presented by Mr Radwan.
The second point I would like to raise is the matter of SMEs.
Impact studies have been carried out and the results indicate that the new rules would result in fair and proportionate capital requirements for exposures for SMEs, so SMEs stand to benefit, and therefore I cannot agree with Mr Ilgenfritz.
I would suggest that these two Members of Parliament have a short debate on the matter, but certainly the Commission agrees with Mrs Villiers.
The Barcelona European Council asked for further studies to be made on the impact of Basel II on the European economy.
In the light of this request, a study is being carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Mrs Randzio-Plath and others mentioned the matter of procyclicality.
Mr Radwan also drew attention to accounting standards.
There will be a directive on Basel II and on international accounting standards.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
It is in fact about the huge issue which is troubling the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament with contradictory positions and which has to do with investigating potential legal bases for the jurisdiction of the European Union to make provision for criminal sanctions for certain serious violations of Community law.
The common objective of all of us must be the effective application of Community provisions, but with solutions which will be reliable, because our main concern is to create legal certainty.
In order to make the problem understandable, I have confined myself to raising the basic question to which the report gives a positive answer, in other words the extent to which the Community can impose an obligation on the Member States to make provision for criminal sanctions for serious infringements of Community law.
The position of the report on the basic question I referred to above, in other words if the Community can impose an obligation on the Member States to make provision for criminal sanctions, is that the Community legislator has the legal capacity to demand this of the Member States.
To be specific, it accepts the principle of safeguarding the law formulated in Article 10 of the EC Treaty; in other words, the obligation of the Member States to ensure that violations of Community law attract effective criminal sanctions.
Thus, the report clarifies that, in order for such a Community initiative to be legal with the law as it stands, it must only be exercised in cases in which this is the only way to safeguard effective compliance with Community provisions.
This approach is based, as Mr Koukiadis has noted, on the case law of the Court of Justice, according to which Article 10 of the Treaty - and I quote - 'requires the Member States to take all measures necessary to guarantee the application and effectiveness of Community law'.
Furthermore, it is important that the European Parliament and the Court of Justice are recognised as playing an identical role to the one that they play in the first pillar; in this way our concern to be effective can go hand in hand with improving democratic and legal checks and measures.
I know that in this regard Parliament is entirely in agreement with the Commission.
That notion is the duty of loyalty enshrined in Article 10 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
In certain cases it will be necessary to use penalties, but we must always try to ensure that the law does not apply the most serious penalty if the objective can be achieved by means of the least serious one.
There have been times in our committee when we have been presented with initiatives from the Member States, where they want us to introduce penalties, but we find ourselves in a situation where we cannot respond as they would like.
If we are to give the Community power in this area of competence - and we should - then it should also be underpinned by the sort of balance achieved by the Community itself signing up to the European Convention on Human Rights.
First of all, it is obvious that criminal law and criminal sanctions touch the liberty of citizens more closely than any other branch of the law and therefore, being absolutely certain that there is a valid constitutional basis for the use of criminal law is vital to liberty as a fundamental matter of the rule of law.
Secondly, in a democratic Community, it is essential that the citizens' representatives get to vote on the question of whether the criminal law should be extended.
I should to like to underline the point in paragraph 7 about subsidiarity and proportionality.
That is absolutely vital.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
