President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in answer to this question I would say that, as you know, the current European Union Solidarity Fund was established to respond to disasters of major and extraordinary proportions, following the floods which affected Central Europe in the summer of 2002.
In 2002, on a proposal from the European Commission, the Council adopted a Regulation establishing the European Union Solidarity Fund.
Article 14 of that Regulation on the Solidarity Fund provides that the Council shall review this Regulation on the basis of a proposal from the Commission by 31 December 2006 at the latest.
The European Parliament issued an opinion in that regard in May 2006 and, still in 2006, the Council discussed the Commission's proposal and Parliament's opinion at the appropriate levels, although no agreement was reached.
As a result, Regulation (EC) No 2012/2002 continues to apply, with the Commission having proposed its mobilisation during 2007.
My region in the West Midlands was very badly hit.
Nationally, we have adopted a series of measures and initiatives that have proven to be very successful in terms of preventing fires and arson and of course we are very happy to share our experiences with all the Member States.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Thank you for your question, Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou.
In addition, this year (2007) was designated the 'European Year of Equal Opportunities for All' through a decision which the Council and Parliament took jointly under the codecision procedure. (EL) Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council.
I must also say that, during the Portuguese Presidency and as part of the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All, the Presidency will be hosting, in Lisbon on 19 and 20 November, a major conference on this issue during which we will of course try to review the situation as regards the relevant issues.
With regard to the issue of transport, as the Commission does not propose initiatives to be adopted by the Council in this area, this issue still comes under the competence of the Member States.
Questions Nos 3, 4 and 5 are not admissible as the subject in question is already on the agenda for this part-session.
The Council Framework Decision of 22 December 2003 on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography contains a definition of offences concerning sexual exploitation of children and child pornography and calls on Member States to take measures to ensure that these offences are punishable by a term of imprisonment of one to three years and, in some cases, the maximum of five to ten years.
Said Framework Decision sets 20 January 2006 as the date for implementation by Member States.
That is not very impressive!
Thirdly, you talked about work on the exchange of information on sex offenders, but when are we going to have a computerised database? (PT) Mr President, Mrs Ludford, I should just like to say the following in response to the various questions asked.
Firstly, many of these measures are relatively recent or very recent and their effects therefore need to be assessed.
I think this is a really serious problem in the Union. (DE) Minister, I tried to listen very closely to your response to Mrs Ludford.
Perhaps you could be more specific in your answer. (PT) I am neither an expert in criminal policy nor a Minister for Justice.
Subject: Merger between Suez and Gaz de France On 3 September it was announced that the boards of the French energy company Suez and the state enterprise Gaz de France had decided to proceed with the planned merger.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must firstly say that, as you know, the conclusions of the 2007 Spring European Council comprehensively covered the EU's energy policy, including the issue of the internal market for gas and electricity.
The Council would point out that these European Council conclusions formed a contribution to the European Commission's Third Energy Package, presented in September 2007, which has the goal of subsequently opening up the internal market for gas and electricity.
Each body and each institution must assume its own responsibilities: the Commission by presenting its proposals, the Council by adopting, rejecting or amending these, and then the Court by ascertaining whether or not the legislation and penalties of Member States comply with the legislation in force.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mrs Anastase, in a decision of 19 December 2006, the Council mandated the Commission to negotiate an agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Moldova on the facilitation of visas.
On 17 October the Moldovan Government passed two bills ratifying the agreements with the European Union on visa facilitation and readmission.
As regards the Common Visa Centre in Chisinau, cooperation between Member States is a matter to be decided by them alone. (RO) Congratulations on signing the agreements with the Republic of Moldova.
As regards Georgia, I believe things should move toward avoiding the situation that the citizens of Georgia deal with as compared to the citizens of South Osetia. (PT) Mr President, as I said, I signed this visa facilitation agreement with Moldova and I can tell you that this action, this initiative, this agreement was duly appreciated and recognised by the Moldovan Government.
With regard to Georgia, I have taken note of your comment, Mrs Anastase. (LT) Are there any plans to adopt an agreement on a visa facilitation regime for visas to Belarus?
Subject: Creation of a European civil defence force On 4 September 2007 the European Parliament adopted a resolution (P6_TA(2007)0362) on natural disasters that makes particular reference to the lethal fires that affected Greece this summer.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr Papadimoulis, the Council would point out that, on 15 and 16 June 2006 and also on 14 and 15 December 2006, the European Council endorsed or took note of Presidency reports on reinforcing the Union's emergency and crisis response capacities in order to improve coordination and delivery of available assets.
The June 2006 European Council also provided further guidelines on improving the Union's emergency, crisis and disaster response capacities, both inside and outside the European Union.
As regards the report submitted by Michel Barnier in May 2006, the Council would also point out that the European Council of 15 and 16 June 2006 welcomed this document as an important contribution to the debate.
In its conclusions of 15 and 16 October 2007, the Council, taking into account the recent devastation in some Member States and recognising the need for the European Union to be able to respond effectively and in a timely manner to crises and emergency situations following natural disasters, invited the Commission to continue examining the issue and to submit relevant proposals before the meeting of the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 10 December 2007. (EL) Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, but in familiar Council terms, he has chronicled 18 months of inertia and delays.
I ask you: will you, as President-in-Office, propose on 10 December that the Council examine what the European Parliament recommends, namely that this auxiliary civil protection force should be set up, or will your successor again tell us, 18 months from now, another tale of yet more delays? (PT) Mr Papadimoulis, the Council is naturally awaiting with great interest the Commission's proposal on this issue, in other words on the possible creation of a civil defence force.
It is hoped that these suggestions or proposals will be made by the Commission before the meeting of the General Affairs Council on 10 December, in fact in less than two months.
Nevertheless, I would like to ask: what are the Commission's views on the force as regards extraordinary situations, and, bearing in mind all these floods and fires, climate change and the events taking place far from here, in America, what are the Commission's views on the actual role of such a force in extraordinary situations? (DE) Mr President-in-Office, you have mentioned the Barnier report several times.
The Council, by asking the Commission to submit proposals on this issue, has unequivocally indicated its interest in the subject and its desire to move forward in this respect.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr Posselt, Professor Ukshin Hoti is one of more than 2 000 people included on the list of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) whose families reported their disappearance during the Kosovo conflict.
The ICRC has, since January 1998, been gathering information on people who disappeared in Kosovo.
As part of the dialogue on issues of mutual interest between Pristina and Belgrade, the working group on missing persons which has representatives in both governments has met periodically since March 2004 under the auspices of the Red Cross.
As a result, the Council of the European Union is supporting the work being carried out by the international and local authorities in Serbia and Kosovo to this end and is encouraging them to increase their efforts. (DE) Mr President, every victim is of course equally important, and so I welcome this inquiry.
However, Professor Hoti really was very well-known.
Various measures have already been taken under the European Climate Change Programme and others are planned within the strategic analysis of energy policy in the European Union in order to achieve a significant part of the greenhouse gas reduction target.
Of course, this is an area that not only affects most European citizens but also one about which they are very concerned.
This inspires public opinion in other countries which in turn forces the respective governments to take measures on a par with our ambitious targets.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, what I have to say on this issue is as follows.
At the informal meeting of EU Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors which was held in the Portuguese city of Porto on 14 and 15 September, various issues were discussed, including developments in the economic and financial situation.
The Ecofin Council on 9 October agreed on a detailed work programme to be carried out until the end of 2008 by relevant bodies at EU level, in strict cooperation with the main international partners.
In addition, it was agreed to extend the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Exchange of Information signed in 2005 between EU Banking Supervisory Authorities, Central Banks and Finance Ministries in order to include three new elements: firstly, the common principles formally adopted at the meeting; secondly, a common analytical framework for the assessment of systemic implications of a potential crisis and, thirdly, common practical guidelines on procedures to be followed in potential cross-border crisis situations.
As I said, the Ecofin Council asked a working group to analyse the situation in great depth and detail and also any new instruments or measures which might in the future prevent situations such as these from affecting the European financial markets.
We will have to wait and see whether or not these measures prove effective in practice.
At this meeting the following message was heavily underlined by our Heads of State and Government: firstly, that the European economy is presenting what the economists call 'good fundamentals', in other words our economies remain sound, and, secondly, that it supports the measures which have been taken by Ecofin and which are proposed in this area.
Subject: Growing number of European agencies There are currently 23 European agencies, spread over a number of EU countries and cities.
The latest agency set up is the Agency for Fundamental Rights, which has its seat in Vienna and currently employs 100 people.
The purpose of the agency is to monitor the protection of human rights in the European Union, although this task is already perfectly taken care of by the European Court of Human Rights and, in fact, also the Council of Europe, both of which have their seat in Strasbourg.
My concern in putting this question was twofold: first, the explosion in the number of agencies opened up after each Council session; 12 new agencies in five years, with an increase in the number of staff working for these agencies from 166 to 3 700.
The second part to this question is: does the Council re-evaluate the need to retain these agencies on a regular basis, when the reason for their existence may no longer be evident?
My second concern is how does the Council itself organise its internal control over the expenditure of all these agencies, and what role does he see for Parliament in this? (PT) Mr Van Hecke, as I have already mentioned, the proposal to set up an agency is presented by the European Commission and then, in dialogue with the Commission, the Council assesses whether or not the Commission's proposal is justified.
As regards the specific management of agencies, as you know, these have their own supervision mechanisms which, in my view, are pretty rigorous.
In addition, the institutions have also agreed, as I mentioned, a set of common principles which very directly apply to the budgetary management of these Community agencies.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Mr Newton Dunn, the Council has not been informed about the participation of Member States in this network which is primarily an initiative of the G8 and Council of Europe Member States.
However, the Council does regard the fight against cybercrime as extremely important, as demonstrated by the adoption of Framework Decision 2005/222/JAI of 24 February 2005 on attacks against information systems and the fact that the Council supported the rapid ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime of 23 November 2001.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Mrs Figueiredo, as the honourable Member must surely know, a country's decision as to whether or not to grant entry to its territory is a matter of national competence.
However, there are also other Members of this House involved in this case and I therefore ask you, Mr President, to convey our concern. (The President cut off the speaker) (PT) Mr President, I have of course noted the observations and comments made by Mrs Figueiredo but I have nothing further to add to my previous answer.
