Future of European aircraft construction (debate) The next item is the debate on statements by the Council and the Commission on the future of European aircraft construction.
Its aircraft - 4 600 of them have been delivered to date - represent European high technology on every airport in the world, thus playing a vital part in establishing an identity for Europe.
With projected growth of 5% per annum in the transport of persons by air, and of 6% per annum in the airfreight sector, the next twenty years will see a demand for over 22 500 new large airliners, amounting to a total value of EUR 2 billion at present-day prices.
Airbus is a major part of the European aerospace industry, a truly European enterprise with, at present 57 000 internal and 30 000 external workers, and drawing on many enterprises, both large and small, for the products and services that it uses.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this item was put on the agenda under the very neutral heading of 'future of European aircraft construction', but the main thing we are talking about today is the Airbus crisis.
The fact is that, by doing away with 10 000 jobs and dividing by six the number of sub-contractors, the 'Power 8' plan is eating away at those things that make Airbus rich: its workers' know-how and the network of sub-contracting businesses on whose cooperation it could rely.
The EU needs to be determined in taking up the cudgels for Airbus.
I would also like to say that we are hopeful that the Power 8 restructuring programme can relaunch the company and restore the competitiveness of a European project that has represented the future of industrial innovation in the European Union.
We also want to be able to tell the Airbus workers in all parts of Europe - also those in Puerto Real, Getafe and Illescas - that the European Parliament is committed to working together with the unions and with the management in order to provide all the assistance they need and encourage them to make it through each day.
Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, honourable Members, I have followed this debate with interest.
What that means is that, in times when the European aerospace industry still possesses some strengths - in innovation and finance - it must also develop in such a way that it remains competitive and can cope with future challenges as well as the current problems with the delays in delivering the A380, the delays in developing the A350, and the problems arising out of the weakness of the dollar.
On 22 March, the Commission will be making, in writing, a complaint against the USA to the World Trade Organisation, which will serve as a protest against the American state's open-ended subsidy of Boeing, which amounts to numberless billions.
