According to the industry data, the US exports to the European Union rose from 100 000 tonnes in 2006 to 1 million tonnes in 2007, which is equal to about 15% of the European market.
Subject: European food aid programme for the most deprived persons In 2005, the European Parliament approved a written declaration on the durability of the European food aid programme for the most deprived persons.
Member of the Commission. - For 20 years the European food aid programme has made a decisive contribution in meeting the food requirements of undernourished people in the Community.
On 4 April 2006 this Parliament adopted a supportive declaration on the European food programme for the most deprived people in the Community.
This programme actually started back in 1987 as an emergency measure in a time of abundant surpluses of agricultural production.
The budget has also been adjusted in particular to take into account the recent enlargement of the European Union.
It has increased from EUR 213 million in 2004 to EUR 305 million this year, 2008.
So we can actually say that we have been pushing the programme to its limits.
The internet consultation has attracted huge participation with more than 12 000 replies, which proves the high interest among European citizens for this initiative.
NGOs have actually played a crucial role in the implementation of the programme and they will also remain a key player in the future.
So I thank you very much for your interest and attention to this very important scheme. (NL) Madam President, I should like first and foremost to thank the Commissioner for this very clear, full reply, which also offers prospects for greater durability of this food aid programme, based upon the evaluation that is currently under way.
Member of the Commission. - We are taking into account all the input that we are getting from our very open approach to this process.
According to the current figures available, 13 million people in the European Union are taking advantage of the special scheme for deprived people.
Part two Member of the Commission. - The Commission is actually very concerned about the impact of the current high prices, both within the European Union and also in the more global context.
The Commission has presented a series of initiatives to counter the short-term effects of the food price shock, to increase agricultural supply and ensure food security in the longer term, and to contribute to the global effort to tackle the effects of the price rises on poor populations.
India has introduced export bans, Vietnam and Thailand rice export limits, Indonesia export taxes on palm oil, and Kazakhstan a ban on wheat exports.
Member of the Commission. - I shall be very brief because I touched upon this in my first intervention.
In your opinion, what could be done to ensure that the increase in the price of agricultural raw materials is in proportion to the general price increase - in other words, to ensure that commodity prices are fair and farmers can have a decent life?
When we talk about these extraordinary high prices, I always like to look back a bit in history to see how prices have developed; and, taking the past 30 years, prices have been decreasing the whole time from the primary producer.
But if you compare prices on cereals in 1975 and today and look at fixed prices, the prices were twice as high in 1975 compared to today.
Vice-President of the Commission. - On the question about Plan D and the communication about 'Debate Europe', let me say that I see it as our duty, together with Member States and the other EU institutions, to communicate with citizens about all our policies and positions.
Voters' confidence in their knowledge of the issues involved in the Lisbon Treaty is crucial to the successful outcome of this referendum, for them to vote 'yes', having decided to vote at all in the first place. 'Levels of knowledge of the Treaty suggest public opinion [in Ireland] is more like Nice 1 than Nice 2' - the words of Professor Richard Sinnott, not mine.
Vice-President of the Commission. - First of all, partnership is the key word.
I think that there are different roles given to the Commission and the institutions, compared with, for example, ministers, who of course also have to be out there everywhere in Ireland as well as in all other Member States to help, to explain, to listen and to communicate what this is all about.
At the same time, it is important to respect the very particular laws and regulations you have in Ireland when it comes to debate before a referendum, and we are of course trying to do that as well.
Madam Commissioner, you have mentioned the referendum in Ireland, and in three weeks they will have a very important, maybe decisive, vote in that country.
At the same time we have a general obligation to engage and provide information, which cannot be taken away from us, and I think that this is how we have learnt how to engage with the National Forum and also how to do more using the media and with young people especially, but also with women because in our experience they are the ones who very often feel alienated and distant from the debate.
Subject: Closer cooperation between European Commission and European Parliament representations The Commission is seeking to increase citizens' involvement in discussions on EU matters.
Vice-President of the Commission. - 2008 is a crucial year for all of the institutions to prepare for the European elections next year.
But the Commission and Parliament already work in close partnership in these areas, both in Brussels and at the level of our representation and information offices in Member States.
We are looking to revise the 2001 Code of Conduct on the working relationship that will open up new ways for us to work together, as well as facilitating the common use of resources such as audiovisual or press monitoring tools.
We are also committed to the goal of shared premises in Member States - the so-called 'EU Houses' - and already in 25 of the 27 Member States our offices share space in the same building.
As you know, we are in a pilot project in three of these European Houses - in Madrid, Dublin and Tallinn - with a common space which we call a 'European public space'.
I would like to ask what, in your opinion, would be the difference between the election campaign for the European Parliament in 2004 and next year, bearing in mind that most probably it will be after the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty?
Vice-President of the Commission. - I shall be very blunt.
I think we all have to say that we want European citizens to exercise their right to vote and this is how we will engage with Member States - again in partnership, not taking a political position but really just to mobilise voters.
We had a debate on European City Guides today but we got very little in terms of reaction from the Council and I think we need to bring more clear messages back to people about what we do here in the European Union and that we are actually here for them, not just to talk about them.
Therefore, we will continue to endeavour to make sure we provide all the necessary resources for doing so; therefore I fully respect your question and I think it is a very serious one.
We have to respond to the questions they have, and of course the truth is that very rarely do they start by asking about the Treaty provisions or an amendment.
We decided to prolong Plan D in the period leading up to the European parliamentary elections in June next year.
I think it proved complementary in addressing the specific citizens' concerns and that this kind of cooperation should become the rule in the framework of Debate Europe, also at national or regional level.
We also hope that we can engage Members of the European Parliament much more in these local and regional activities.
We have prepared and will present to the European Parliament the outcome of our project very soon: preparing for such a network, joining national and European parliamentarians and we hope also inviting journalists to take part in the debate on European issues.
Along these lines we can continue Plan D, learn from the experience so far and engage with citizens on a number of projects and models that we hopefully can establish permanently - not only as something that runs for six months or so - and ensure that we can involve decision-makers with European citizens in these ways. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, the problem for all of us lies in the fact that Europe is cut off from ordinary people.
I should like to ask which agencies will bring the citizen closer to Europe, as envisaged in the Debate Europe plan.
Vice-President of the Commission. - One of the new initiatives of course is that we need a European political culture, and that is what, as you know, we have presented.
This is because we need to have it in the regular political discussions at all levels: EU issues have to be integrated better.
And I think we have to provide the meeting places, the public spaces, and this is where we have some pilot projects to allow for that.
These transnational projects where we have engaged in consultation with citizens can, I think, give us some useful lessons as well as some useful experience that hopefully we will be able to put in place permanently one day.
Questions 35 to 39 will receive written answers.
The Piau and Meca Medina cases were the first Court judgments to apply EC competition rules to the sector.
Since then the Commission has followed the methodological approach of that case-law in assessing whether a rule adopted by a sports federation or association infringes Articles 81 and 82.
Therefore any sports rule which is capable of producing restrictive effects on competition has to be examined on a case-by-case basis in order to determine whether it pursues a legitimate objective.
That investigation was closed in 2002 after FIFA committed itself to modifying its transfer rules on the basis of certain principles which aimed at facilitating transfers.
Member of the Commission. - That is correct.
The European Court of Justice - and the honourable Member has already felt the direction I am moving in - has ruled in the Meca Medina judgment that the compatibility of sporting rules with EC competition law cannot be assessed by way of declaring certain categories of rules a priori exempt from the application of EC competition law.
Finally, the Meca Medina judgment provides a clear methodological framework in that respect.
In order to assess whether a rule breached EU competition rules, its effect must be proportionate to the legitimate genuine sporting interest pursued, so this proportionality test can only be applied on a case-by-case basis. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, in all the Member States, the national sports federations, particularly the football federations, complain vociferously on the basis of international sports federation statutes (FIFA, UEFA, etc.) every time their activities are investigated by the government.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission is of course concerned about the recent wholesale and retail price increases in food and food products.
Indeed, EU food price inflation accelerated in the last quarter of 2007.
That development mainly resulted from a combination of structural drivers: a steady rise in global food demand, the emergence of the biofuel market - only for a very small part - and more short-term factors such as adverse climate conditions, which provoked a decrease in the output volume of cereals in most of the EU Member States in 2007 and the restrictive export policy of some key world market suppliers and in general an increasing engagement of investment funds in agricultural commodity markets.
Thus some other components of the sale price, and I am thinking of energy and labour margins, have also influenced recent increases in food prices in the European Union.
They will act first, but when they are not in a position to do so, we will jump in.
It is of course important to consider all relevant factors affecting these markets and the Commission will continue to monitor consumer prices, retail market concentration and any allegations of anti-competitive conduct.
Nevertheless, particularly large differences between the Member States may suggest the need for further scrutiny.
The Commission's response will provide, among other aspects, certain clarifications in relation to buyer-power-related issues. (FR) As you know, this morning in Kehl, the French and German consumer ministers met to discuss the price differences between the two countries.
Among the causes discussed, they mentioned the differences in retail trading structures, and in particular the imperfect competition in some countries.
As soon as we become aware of a cartel we will act, I can assure you, but, by the way, I think it is not that bad, as national competition authorities are active and following the whole situation in this sector.
Questions 35 to 39 will receive written answers.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, Mr Posselt, Mr Crowley and Mr Ebner have all asked about the state of play of accession negotiations with Croatia and I can respond to them jointly.
As regards opening benchmarks, 11 sets of benchmarks have been set.
The Commission has assessed the benchmarks as being met in seven of these 11 cases.
In these cases our recommendations are now under discussion among the Member States in the Council or negotiation positions are being prepared.
In the remaining chapters, such as competition policy and public procurement, opening benchmarks were already set by the Union in the first half of 2006 - that is two years ago.
But Croatia has been slow in taking the necessary measures to meet these opening benchmarks.
While Croatia has done plenty of good work aligning with the key 16 chapters where we have closing benchmarks, Croatia has not done enough at this stage to meet all closing benchmarks in any of these 16 chapters.
Thus we can work and progress on the basis of Croatia's own merits. - (DE) Commissioner, you know my position - that Croatia should have become a Member long ago, if justice prevailed.
If there are still 17 chapters which have yet to be opened for negotiation, how can we proceed at the pace that we want to see happening?
Member of the Commission. - Thank you for these very pertinent and important follow-up questions.
The Commission is working with Croatia as it would with any other candidate country so that we follow the negotiating framework adopted in unanimity by the Council and by the Member States.
We expect that Croatia will provide a very concrete restructuring strategy for the whole sector, as well as for all the individual shipyards concerned in this sector.
There was a meeting recently between the Deputy Prime Minister of Croatia and my colleague Neelie Kroes, the European Commissioner for Competition, to scrutinise the state of affairs in this regard.
We are encouraging twinning exercises and of course we provide our own expertise for Croatia.
Member States are also providing their peer reviews which are important in order to benchmark whether or not Croatia is making good progress in this field.
In reply to a question I explained that the decisions relating to the EU accession process are taken by Member States on the basis of unanimity.
I wanted to ask you to confirm that and to ask whether you have observed any efforts on the part of the Macedonian Government to resolve the issues and whether, in your opinion, Macedonia has made progress in recent months.
Member of the Commission. - In my view you are indeed right that the country has made good progress for the past half-year or so in terms of some critical reforms such as the judiciary reform and the reform of public administration, as well as on the implementation of the police law.
Subject: European funding for the Turkish army in Cyprus Media reports allege that the EU has provided the Turkish army with funding to the tune of EUR 13 million.
Secondly, how can the Commission ensure that the Turkish troops occupying Cyprus do not somehow come by a portion of the funds and thus that these funds are not being used for anything other than their intended purpose?
Questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see Annex).
