Palestinian prisoners in Israel (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Council on Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails - B6-0166/2008); the oral question to the Commission on Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails - B6-0167/2008); author. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we put a simple question to 47 Members from different political groups: what are the Council and the Commission intending to do about the violations of international conventions by the Israeli authorities as regards Palestinian prisoners?
The vast majority of prisoners are detained in Israeli territory, violating Article 76 of the Geneva Convention: arbitrary arrests, house-to-house searches, administrative detention, torture and abuse during interrogations in detention centres.
All this has been documented by international organisations including Amnesty International, the United Nations and admirable Israeli organisations such as B'Tselem and Hamoked, and by Palestinian organisations such as Addameer and Defence for Children International.
My son has been in jail since 1977, and I am 78 and suffer from high blood pressure and diabetes; I am losing my sight and cannot really get around my own home any more.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, Madam Vice-President, Mrs Morgantini, ladies and gentlemen, you have raised the subjects of Israel's imprisonment and administrative detention of Palestinians, including minors, and of their treatment in the occupied territories and in Israel.
The human rights issue is a topic that continues to be discussed at all levels on an ongoing basis in political contacts between the EU and Israel.
Thus in its declaration of 16 June 2008, published at the end of the EU-Israel Association Council, the European Union called for the informal group discussing the human rights issue to be transformed into a standing subcommittee.
This agreement provides for the return of the bodies of Hezbollah fighters and the release of Palestinian prisoners in exchange for the return of the bodies of the Israeli soldiers Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev, captured in 2006.
Last February I, too, met with the Palestinian Minister for Prisoners' Affairs in the company of Mrs Fadwa Barghouti, the wife of Marwan Barghouti, who is in prison.
The Commission, in its meetings with the Israeli authorities, and I personally in my meetings with Israeli decision-makers, will certainly continue to urge Israel to comply fully with international law and conventions.
Article 2 of the EU-Israel Association Agreement will continue to remind both the European Union and Israel that respect for human rights and democratic principles are the basis of our bilateral relations.
After all, Israel is a democratic country, which faces an existential threat from Jihadi terrorists and their cheerleaders, who are the very individuals currently held under administrative detention by Israel.
I particularly question the need for this motion for a resolution at a time of a truce with Hamas, which has just stopped firing its rockets from Gaza at civilians, and also a prisoner exchange taking place between Israel and Hizbollah, whereby five terrorist prisoners were returned to their homes and families, whereas two Israeli soldiers will be returned in body bags.
Samir Kuntar has vowed to resume Jihad against Israel now that he is set free.
And on this point, the fate of the Palestinian prisoners is a genuine paradigm, for what this is about is the fate of more than 8 500 Palestinian prisoners, and the reasons for and conditions of their detention.
I would point out that 48 elected members of the Palestinian Legislative Council are currently in prison.
That 310 minors are being detained under the same conditions as the adults, although Israel is a signatory of the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
However, I should like to remind our Israeli partners that for the European Parliament, human rights are non-negotiable.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Obeida Assida is a Palestinian student.
Saed Yassine is a Palestinian champion of human rights.
He has been held in administrative detention in Israel since 2006.
She has been held in administrative detention in Israel since September 2006, without charges and without a trial.
Everybody knows that if I were to go through the long list of thousands of Palestinian prisoners currently held in Israeli prisons, in total violation of international and human rights law, I should need a great deal of speaking time.
Today, we, the Members of the European Parliament, demand that the Council and the Commission provide an explanation for the fact that on 16 June they upgraded relations between the European Union and Israel, at a time when 11 000 detainees, including 376 children, 118 women and 44 members of the Palestinian Legislative Council, as well as 800 administrative detainees, are being held in Israeli prisons, in breach of international law.
The best partner in defending the rights of Palestinian prisoners in Israel is the Israeli Supreme Court.
Today we focus on the terrible situation of Palestinian prisoners, including 44 members of the Legislative Council.
To fail to invoke Article 2 of the Association Agreement demonstrates the most deplorable political cowardice.
Mr President, I agree completely with Caroline Lucas.
We know what the Supreme Court says, but that applies only to those who can reach the Supreme Court.
Try to have Cuba condemned here for the presence of political prisoners in its jails, and you will talk to me about the way in which human rights are dealt with in the European Parliament.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief, since I made the essential points in my opening speech.
The Presidency will continue to raise this issue in the political contacts that take place between the European Union and Israel during our term.
