Use of PCB waste oils in an Irish food recycling plant (debate) - The next item is the Commission statement on the use of PCB waste oils in an Irish food recycling plant.
Incidents like those in Belgium in 1999, and in Ireland last year, have demonstrated once again that even small amounts of PCBs can cause severe contamination of the feed and food chain.
All Member States have communicated their plans for the decontamination and/or disposal of inventoried equipment and the PCBs contained therein, and for the collection and subsequent disposal of equipment containing less than five cubic decimetres of PCBs (as required by Article 11 of the Directive).
In order to ensure the efficiency of PCB disposal plans, Member States have to further improve the implementation of existing legislation on PCBs and of European waste legislation in general.
The Commission is placing increasing importance on the proper implementation of EU waste legislation, and is actively supporting Member States in enhancing the implementation of their national waste legislation.
The role of the Commission is set out in Article 45 of the Official Control on Food and Feed Regulation (EC) No 882/2004.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, I would like to thank the Commission for that very detailed statement on this subject.
Regarding surplus food - or waste food as it is sometimes called - my own view is that it is appropriate that we use this product in the animal feed chain, but I want to say very clearly that, if we cannot guarantee its safety and how it is processed and handled, then I am afraid we may need to look at banning this in the food and feed chain.
I would not like to see that happen, but then again I would not like to see happen again what occurred in Ireland and the subsequent consequences of it.
Indeed, unfortunately, Ireland was one of those Member States which had to be forced by threats of legal action to actually implement this directive, five years later, in 2001.
If we do not take immediate and drastic steps to guarantee that, then I think we are failing in our responsibility.
While any contamination of our food is always regrettable, what this incident shows is the very high level of food safety controls which the Irish authorities have in place to guarantee the integrity of the food chain.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, at least this was discovered, in the Irish case, by means of inspections.
In both cases, we hear talk of accidents that took place, but these accidents have never been proven.
The aim of the Pigmeat Recall Scheme announced by the Irish Government in December 2008 was to remove contaminated Irish pork from the market.
Be that as it may, it does not appear that this scheme is providing for the 4 000 contaminated pigs sent to the Vion pig processing plant in Cookstown, County Tyrone, in my constituency, between the 1st of September and the 6th of December 2008.
If they will not be entitled to compensation under the Pigmeat Recall Scheme agreed between the Commission and the Irish government, a similar type of scheme must be agreed between the Commission and the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development in the Assembly in Belfast.
The Ministers in the Assembly in Belfast and in the Irish Government will soon provide an all-island animal health strategy.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, my colleague mentioned the murky channels by which PCBs came into the food chain in Ireland.
So, despite the Commission's directive of 1996 which required the disposal of PCBs, we find them coming up again and again, in particular in Belgium and in Ireland recently.
We are talking today about PCBs and dioxins and rightly so, but are we going to spend 100 years before we realise the connection between dioxins and incineration?
On a final note, I hope that this debate will give us some answers, at least to these two questions. - (BG) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the use of waste oils containing polychlorinated biphenyls at a food waste recycling plant again has posed the question of the need for guaranteeing food safety in the European Union.
Commissioner, you, yourself, talked of gaps that are still to be closed in the implementation of our legislation in a number of Member States.
I would also like to point out to Jim Allister that this is a cross-border issue.
The company concerned, Millstream Recycling, are cooperating fully.
Commissioner, it is time, long past time, that you brought in straight, clear labelling of origin of where this comes from.
But even with the most stringent control measures such a thing may happen, either because of fraud, or because of negligence, or whatever.
Our duty as the Commission is to have controls and to see that Member States do their duty.
The Commission has introduced a private storage aid scheme for Northern Ireland, and under this scheme up to 15 000 tonnes can be stored for a maximum of six months.
Under that scheme, up to 30 000 tonnes can be stored for up to six months, with a maximum budget of EUR 13.9 million.
On the Commission side, we have to keep up our controls and make sure that Member States comply with our regulations.
