Preparation of the European Council (18-19 June 2009) (debate) The next item is the statements of the Council and of the Commission on the preparation of the European Council on 18 and 19 June.
In December 2008, the European Council agreed on a path designed to enable the Lisbon Treaty to enter into force by the end of 2009.
As you all probably know, tomorrow there will be a vote on the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty in the Czech Senate.
The Presidency will of course work closely not only with the Member States, but also with this Parliament.
More generally, the June European Council will take stock of the situation on the financial markets and assess the effectiveness of measures taken so far.
The EU is committed to shouldering its fair share of that, which of course also requires a fair internal burden-sharing agreement.
However, two important summits with third countries will be held in Prague at the end of this week: the Eastern Partnership Summit on 7 May and the 'Southern Corridor - New Silk Road' Summit the day after.
This crisis is an opportunity for us to renew our European model of a social market economy that is environmentally aware and based on our values.
They must explain why Europe is so important, why citizens must play their part in it and why they must vote.
The legacy of these last five years is very important.
Measures have been adopted that have had direct effects on the security and freedom of citizens, and which have also opened up new possibilities to them.
The European Union needs the benefits that this Treaty will bring.
Last week saw our proposals on hedge funds and private equity, as well as on executive pay.
The second volet, of course, is employment.
I can already announce now that the Commission will follow up this summit with a detailed communication ahead of the June European Council.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council, which will bring the Czech Presidency to an end, is still looking fairly vague as regards both date and content.
Today's task is therefore a difficult one, but it is an opportunity for us to reaffirm our priorities as we reach the end of this parliamentary term.
As was the case in 2004, the Council Presidency will be invited to choose a candidate from the main European Parliamentary group, to hold this important position, and it will then fall to our Parliament on 15 July to voice its opinion on this choice, which will constitute one of the first major political actions of the new parliamentary term.
The Treaty of Lisbon stipulates this move, which would be a positive development.
I would also like to say how much we appreciate the manner in which you led the work of the Parliament over the first few months of this Presidency, in a difficult situation, with the energy crisis between Russia and Ukraine, and of course, the financial crisis.
The credibility of the European Union is at stake.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council will naturally also debate the latest developments in the economic crisis, and the measures implemented at Europe's request in order to clean up international financial systems.
These are all measures that are heading in the right direction, by imposing rules on the financial markets, in order to help us to get back on track towards growth and employment as soon as possible.
These are all measures that highlight once again that those who, often by demagogy, accuse the Commission and the European Union of paralysis or weakness are mistaken, and deceive our fellow citizens.
In its paper, the PPE-DE mentions the social market economy in some parts and the free, that is unrestrained, unregulated market economy in others.
In addition to this activity, which Mr Schulz is publicising and promoting throughout Europe at this very moment - I therefore ask you to accept Mr Schulz's apology - I would once more like to make it clear: the economic crisis has again made it obvious that the lack of economic coordination, for which not only the Commission, but also the Council is responsible, is partly to blame for the weak manner in which we are dealing with this crisis.
We have to send out this message to young people together, because this is extremely important for social stability in our society.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, we approach the next European Council with anxiety tempered by ambition.
One important item on the agenda should, of course, be the nomination of the next President of the Commission, but that nomination cannot be seen in isolation.
The logical approach is to make all the appointments on the basis of Nice or all on the basis of Lisbon.
My group welcomes the hedge fund proposals from the Commission in that regard as a good first step.
They care about the economic situation and the uncertainty that is there at present.
What they are worried about is their jobs, their mortgages and their children's future, and that is what we should respond to.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow you will decide whether or not to approve the Treaty of Lisbon.
This Parliament made it a point of contention back in 1984 and proposed, together with Altiero Spinelli, that the treaties should be ratified by a majority and whoever did not wish to ratify them should be shown the door without compunction, with an agreement on how to move forward.
We believe that this would have been a constitutional reform for the times and I am afraid that this Parliament has really wasted an opportunity in this term to be a driving force for integration and a driving force for the positive reform of treaties by putting up with this unsatisfactory procedure.
The President also emphasised, it is true, that the next European Council will take place after the elections - and also said, and many of us reiterated the sentiment, that this European Council should appoint the next Commission President.
We do not think that this is necessary, however, particularly if there is no clarity over what will happen with the treaty: we believe that either the entire Commission, including its President, should be appointed in accordance with the Treaty of Nice, or that the President and also the Commission should be appointed in accordance with the Treaty of Lisbon.
We do not therefore have a deal as things stand today, because it is clear that even if the United States comes in with us, if we do not offer a financial deal, EUR 100 billion, to countries that must adopt measures to adapt to and alleviate climate change, we will not have any agreement in Copenhagen.
Mr President, the next Council meeting must consider the grave economic and social situation caused by the crisis in capitalism and neoliberal policies.
If we want more European citizens to take part in the European elections, then we must respond in the way that the general public and workers in our countries want and deserve.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (DA) Mr President, the summit on employment was actually planned for 7 May in Prague.
Here the leaders of the Member States discussed the so-called Lisbon strategy, which is the EU's plan for more and better jobs.
I believe that these countries need to know that they can of course extricate themselves from the strict requirements of the euro, even if there is no clause concerning withdrawal.
Please tell them that the European Union is functioning effectively even in an economic crisis, that it is taking the necessary measures, that the Member States are able to help each other and that the Treaty of Lisbon is completely unnecessary for all of this.
You should publicly withdraw the Czech Presidency's outrageous assertion that whoever does not accept the Treaty of Lisbon should leave the Union.
Lastly, Deputy Prime Minister Vondra, you should withdraw your untrue assertion that 25 countries have approved the Treaty of Lisbon.
Please also bear in mind that the Treaty of Lisbon was rejected not only by Irish citizens, but, for example, by the prominent German left-wing politician Oskar Lafontaine, by the prominent Christian Democrat politician and former President of the Federal Constitutional Court and President of Germany, Roman Herzog, and by the former member of this Parliament, Graf von Stauffenberg, son of the would-be assassin of Adolf Hitler.
Please make sure that the final European Council under a Czech Presidency performs its function in such a way that the impression left by our country is not one of totalitarianism, coercion and lies, but one of respect for democracy, freedom and, above all, the true facts.
I propose that you hold three very carefully planned summits before the June Summit, with a selective group of people, where you formulate a new recovery plan - a recovery plan corresponding to plus 2% in real demand, with 0.5% finance at European level - one half financed by the states and one half financed by the municipality; where you add a new social plan to take care of the immense costs of this unemployment crisis and to move into intelligent work-sharing while you use the Erasmus programme to ensure that young people, instead of being unemployed are allocated to a training scheme; and, lastly, as you said yourself indirectly today, that you now try seriously to propose Eurobonds in a well-focused, well-done, well-planned way to take care of those countries that cannot finance their own recovery plan.
And, yes, it should include a proposal for the raising of Eurobonds, plus greater federal supervision for the financial sector and a proper fiscal stimulus, accompanied by a proper trade stimulus triggered by the reopening of the Doha trade negotiations. (EL) Mr President, the only new thing that the European Union Council summit on 18 June 2009 can add is new hardships for the working classes and grassroots classes and new subsidies and support for monopoly groups in the European Union.
The European Union and the governments of the Member States are consistently serving the interests of capital and the workers will pay the price of the capitalist crisis.
The forthcoming Employment Summit on 7 May is being prepared on the basis of this strategy of serving the interests of capital.
If the Czech Parliament also ratifies the Treaty of Lisbon tomorrow, this will mean that we were completely fobbed off back then.
Naturally, it is easy to implement such a model at a time of economic boom and during decades of positive growth, but I think that it is precisely in a time of recession that the strength of the European Social Model and the social market economy model needs to be felt.
Therefore, by limiting themselves to an informal meeting on the subject of employment, the European leaders have backed away from the crisis, and are running the risk of a very serious social and political crisis. (LT) On 9 May 1950 Robert Schumann proposed the 'Schumann Plan', which laid the foundations for economic cooperation between European nations.
Unfortunately, this revolutionary approach was replaced by a much more modest one: an offer to introduce long-term simplified visa procedures on a case-by-case basis.
Mr Vondra, I wish you all the best tomorrow in the Czech Senate, I hope it goes well and then we will only have the referendum in Ireland to come.
President-in-Office of the Council, could you also say something about this? (SV) Thank you, Madam President, Commission President Barroso, Mr Vondra.
The position that the Commission has previously taken is to try to avoid opening up a very complicated and politically sensitive directive and instead to see to it that the Member States that have problems meeting the requirements of the directive change their own national laws.
You have missed the point Mr Barroso. (DE) Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, the statements of the Council and of the Commission on the preparation of the session of the European Council greatly disappointed those of us who are interested in transport.
My Group therefore appeals to the European Council - and I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council will take this up - to discuss and prepare at the next Council balanced approaches for global, environmentally friendly transport policies, ahead of the climate conference in Copenhagen.
If we want to be successful in Copenhagen, we must also discuss an environmentally compatible transport policy. (ES) Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council meeting on 18 and 19 June will be held two weeks after the European elections, and in a democracy elections are fundamental.
Madam President, on 9 May we celebrate 'Europe Day' in all our countries, but the truth is that we should sometimes hold a 'No Europe Day' to see what Europe would be like if the European Union did not exist.
Finally, Mr Vondra, I would like to congratulate you on your Presidency.
Thank you, Madam President, and may it be so, as we say in my country. (PL) Madam President, the Czech Presidency has not been easy, mainly because of domestic problems, and also because of the world economic crisis.
Therefore I would like to ask if the Presidency intends to approach those Member States which have completed parliamentary procedures in this matter and only the Head of State is procrastinating over the signing of this document.
I would like to appeal very, very strongly for solidarity. (PT) Madam President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this legislative term, one of the central issues under debate was the institutional issue.
All those who are calling for a second Irish 'no' are hoping that Ireland can be used as a sledgehammer to begin the destruction of the European Union.
It has also taught us that solidarity and power-sharing with other European states is the best guarantee of our sovereignty and the best guarantee of our prosperity.
We cannot have a European Union that ignores that. (PT) Madam President, President of the Commission, President-in-Office of the Council, we are facing an unprecedented crisis.
It was not in fact the time to discuss internally how we organise ourselves, which is why I want the Treaty of Lisbon to be quickly ratified so that we can face the world stage united, standing shoulder-to-shoulder as Europeans.
The recovery plan is insufficient and has no focus.
In every crisis there is an opportunity; this is the opportunity for the Commission and Europe to respond to the real problems of European citizens, and I hope that this will happen through a new approach to the recovery plan.
The Presidency will meet with you here at the end of June.
I have no doubt that it will contribute to a successful conclusion of the Czech Presidency.
Of course, it is sovereign but we all believe that the outcome of the game will be positive.
To Mr Rasmussen, I would say that it was José Manuel Barroso who assumed the leadership and encouraged engagement in discussion at a time when many politicians preferred rather to fix problems at home because it is a serious challenge. (Applause) I would not mix the Eastern Partnership with the challenges of employment.
If you want Vondra's private recommendation - and I am a private man and just an ordinary Senator as from next Monday, looking forward to a trip to France because I have just read that the average time for sleeping in France is nine hours a day and I have been sleeping just two to three hours a day over the last months - I think that this is the man to lead us for the next five years. (Applause) President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as some Members have already said, this is the last time that they will be here, in plenary session, at a debate preceding a European Council.
I will not be able to see them in July, or September, since the mandate for this Commission comes to a close at the end of October, as you know.
Firstly, there is the question of the Treaty of Lisbon and the transition that we need to make from one parliamentary term to another, and there is also the question of the constitution of a new Commission.
It is an extremely delicate challenge, as some of you have said, since we do not have the Treaty of Lisbon in place yet, a Treaty signed but not yet ratified by the 27 governments.
Perhaps some of those who are impatient and demand a lot of us can assist the Commission during the next financial perspectives, in convincing the Member States, particularly where the parties voted for a maximum of 1% of their resources - the 1% club who have put a limit on their financial resources.
The truth is that the Commission has put forward some ambitious proposals, that we constantly monitor the economic situation, and that we will present further proposals when they prove necessary.
I realise that, from the point of view of immediate policy, particularly in the European Parliament, and in the context of the European Parliament elections, we all want to highlight our own programme, and our own party.
If we are supranational, we must also have a vision that goes beyond that of our own party.
I can tell you that the proposals on hedge funds, which some of you have criticised, were the subject of a consensus within the Commission, between all the Commissioners, members of the socialist family, members of the liberal family and members of the PPE.
Therefore, although I understand that in terms of the political battle it makes sense to focus criticism on this or that Commissioner, I do not believe that it is fair from a political point of view, or from an intellectual point of view.
It is clearly very difficult for a country that holds the Presidency of the Union to have to deal with an internal political crisis, and to replace its own government.
I think I can allow myself to say that it is also thanks to us, the Commission, in a small way, for the proposals that we have put forward.
This is why, when I just now paid tribute to the Czech Presidency, and in particular, to Deputy Prime Minister Vondra, I meant it with great sincerity, because I know that it is extremely difficult, as I have witnessed every day, to work under these conditions and still manage to come up with results.
The message that they are sending to the citizens of Europe is constantly negative.
EU was established as an attempt not only to assure peace but also as a tool for cooperation.
On 7 June, the Portuguese will have another opportunity to say enough is enough, by voting for the CDU (Portuguese Democratic Unity Coalition).
