Worrying situation in the retention centres for immigrants, especially in the islands of Mayotte and Lampedusa (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the worrying situation in the retention centres for immigrants, especially in the islands of Mayotte and Lampedusa.
We have responded by developing, over the last 10 years, an effective EU asylum and migration policy.
You have specifically raised the situation on the islands of Mayotte and Lampedusa.
Regarding the first category - those who claim international protection - I would draw your attention to the existence of minimum standards for the protection of asylum seekers, set out in Directive 2003/9/EC, which was adopted in 2003.
This Directive has already been transposed into the national law of the Member States and it is for the Commission to ensure that the provisions set out in this Directive are properly and fully applied.
In December 2008, the Commission presented to the European Parliament and to the Council a proposal to amend and update this directive.
Since the codecision procedure applies here, the European Parliament will be fully involved in the negotiations on this new proposal.
Until now, the legislation and practice regarding detention in the Member States has varied considerably.
It should also be stressed that the directive provides for clear upper limits of detention and the grounds on which - in limited specific cases - a detention period may be prolonged, but not longer than a maximum term.
On the conditions of detention, the directive makes clear that detention shall take place as a rule in specialised detention facilities - or, in any case, away from ordinary prisoners - and that the rights of the detainees - especially those of vulnerable status including minors and families - shall be observed.
This overall legal framework underlines our strong commitment to ensuring that third-country nationals who are held in detention for the purpose of removal are treated in a humane and dignified manner, and that their fundamental rights are fully respected.
The second text on which we will base our actions is that adopted by the Commissioners on 3 December 2008 on accommodation conditions for asylum seekers.
I hope, Mr Deprez, that the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs might examine this text in the near future so that we can make progress with this new policy on asylum.
Up to now, Italy has been able to give access to its territory, saving the lives of many migrants, whilst introducing a procedure which can be used to examine requests for asylum in appropriate conditions.
The Commission also notes that Italy has recognised a need for international protection in half of all individual cases, thus showing that in these flows, there are asylum seekers alongside the illegal immigrants.
This is the case with the Presidium project and the European Refugee Fund emergency measures.
In addition, a few weeks ago, the Commission approved emergency aid of EUR 7 million.
If Italy thinks it necessary, the Commission is ready to examine a new request for emergency aid from the 2009 budget to improve the reception structures on Lampedusa, in Sicily and on the mainland, thus increasing the Italian authorities' ability to examine the individual situations of migrants in appropriate conditions.
The European Union recognises the territory of Mayotte as French, but it has the status of an overseas country or territory, not an outermost region.
Therefore, private law does not apply, although it is true that France has to take into account the remarks and requests of the Council of Europe and I believe that the French authorities are currently looking at other reception conditions in Mayotte.
I will concentrate on the case of the administrative detention centre in Mayotte, with whose problems I am very familiar.
The differences in the standards of living and economic and social development between the islands of this Indian Ocean archipelago incite many Comorans to cross the 70 kilometres that separate them from Mayotte, which is a French department as you said Mr Barrot and, as an OCT, is not a European territory.
The French authorities are well aware of these difficulties.
Besides these temporary measures, the French Government has also decided to build a new detention centre with a more suitable capacity and in accordance with national standards.
Stigmatising the Mayotte detention centre will not bring a quicker or more effective solution, as the pressure of migration is subjecting the island to such a tension.
Most of those who are in Lampedusa are asylum seekers.
The Council recalled the minimum standards envisaged by a Directive on asylum seekers adopted in 2003; these rules are being substantively and formally violated.
We often have 180 days of detention, including for those who are fleeing from political persecution or war.
Therefore, Mr Vice-President, I invite you to visit Lampedusa, as you yourself have promised, to go there soon, and (if I may make a suggestion) to announce at the last moment that you are going to Lampedusa.
Otherwise they will smarten up the Centre like a ballroom for you and make you imagine that this is the detention centre that we are talking about this evening.
Some countries have not shown the welcome given by Italy to thousands of desperate people who risked being drowned in the sea, thanks to people traffickers and the inertia of many nonEuropean governments who have not respected and signed the agreements for the control of illegal immigration.
The Centre for Temporary Stay has had at least 1 800 people shut up in there without the government arranging for any of them to be transferred.
The Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees states that at least 75% of those who arrive by sea in Italy and gain the right to asylum request it.
The citizens of Lampedusa have become aware of this, Mrs Muscardini.
They have also asked the Italian Government to modify its position on the Centre for Temporary Stay.
I understand that, in 2007, more than 12 000 immigrants arrived at Lampedusa, and this figure rose to more than 30 000 in 2008.
Only then will a debate such as the one we are holding today prove unnecessary in future. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nothing in this House surprises me any more.
In 2007, around 11 000 migrants arrived in Lampedusa.
Of these 76 requests for asylum, 36 had a positive outcome, 3 were suspended and the rest ...
The situation is difficult for this small island which, in 2008 alone, had to cope with the arrival of almost 31 700 immigrants.
It became known that 204 people, generally minors, were being housed there, while the maximum capacity is for 60 people.
The pressure of migration is indeed felt more strongly in these territories, but the dignity of each person must be ensured and each case should be investigated in accordance with the law.
It has already been stated that we have an unavoidable need for a real European policy on asylum and immigration and for solidarity at the Union level.
While waiting for Europe to implement its strategies, the Italian Government is pressing ahead with work on both the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum, adopted by the European Council in October 2008, and the Return Directive of December 2008.
All asylum seekers, by contrast, were transferred from the island to the centres in Trapani, Bari and Crotone.
At international level, the Italian Parliament is today ratifying the agreement with Libya, Article 19 of which expressly states that a more effective control system on Libya's land frontiers should be established to prevent illegal immigration.
We must support the other Member States, such as Malta, Greece and Italy, but not these hypocrites.
We should not help them. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has to decide: does it want regulated immigration or the invasion and criminal exploitation of illegal immigrants?
Europe must certainly come to Lampedusa and help our country and those others who maintain the Maroni line on this problem.
An anti-Mafia professional like Mr Fava should be able to understand it, it is not difficult, he too should understand it.
The Maroni line is approved by Malta, Greece and Cyprus, and by those who live near the southern frontier of our country.
This should be our main objective.
Mr President, last Sunday, a boat carrying 260 immigrants landed on our shores.
To place it in a clearer context for Minister Vondra, this is the equivalent of 7 000 immigrants arriving in the Czech Republic in one day.
The 2 000 arriving in Lampedusa over Christmas is nothing compared to this!
Thank you. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you what the Lampedusans want.
The other day, just when there was the sudden and unexpected escape of 1 000 immigrants from the Centre for Temporary Stay, I was on the island and observed the consternation and fear of the people who live there and no longer want to witness things of this kind.
This is an island that has lived off fishing and tourism and sees its own economy being destroyed by a blind immigration policy. (DE) Mr President, I have listened very carefully to this debate and have remained here from beginning to end, unlike many group spokesmen.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I should like to thank you for a very constructive and helpful debate.
A lot has been said during this particular debate about the countries most involved: Italy and France.
Perhaps it was not like the situation in Malta, where I understand the situation is particularly difficult, but I think everybody in the EU has some experience of that and, without a doubt, there is a need for us to work together.
Mr President, as Mr Vondra, the deputy Prime Minister has said, the Commission must ensure that the rules are applied.
I would like to reply to Mrs Sudre, since she gave a very good explanation of the extremely worrying situation in Mayotte.
What she said is correct: the French authorities have informed us that a new centre with 140 places will open in 2010.
