That they do, of course, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which we here in this House also take very seriously; after all, many Members of this House have strong links with local authorities, having been active in municipal politics before they came here.
Public bodies are increasingly choosing private partners for public service companies set up in conjunction with the public sector.
In order to legislate on mixed public-private partnerships, we need to review the 2004 compromise, renegotiate a new text with 27 - and no longer 15 - Member States and, in the event that a new compromise is reached, once again force the Member States to amend their national laws and their practices in relation to public contracts, even though the current rules are not yet well established.
For this reason I would like to raise just two points.
At the very least, the Union should invest in an Internet site, in the 20 official Community languages, which would be accessible to the general public.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, we are concerned here with a response to the Commission Green Paper on public-private partnerships, designed to investigate points that remain unclear, especially in what is known as the in-house area.
We do not, however, have closed minds on this point and, just as Mr Langen said, we thus support Amendment 21 by Mrs Weiler.
We do not wish to reduce the scope for public procurement.
In conclusion, I wish sincerely to say a big thank you to Mrs Weiler for the splendid work she has done, as well as to the great many other people who have been involved.
It is wrong to say that these are recent entities: semi-public companies have been around since 1955 in France and the Stadtwerke have been around for a very long time in Germany.
Although public authorities are not obliged to hand over to third parties the performance of functions for which a market exists, should they decide to entrust third parties with the performance of a service, they must be bound by a public tendering process, as is indeed clear from Article 295 of the European Communities Treaty, which requires neutrality in the application of internal market rules to public and private undertakings.
That, by the same token, makes cooperation between municipalities possible in principle, albeit subject to the restrictions that are so well stated in what is now paragraph 45 of the Weiler report, namely when cooperation between municipalities is for the purpose of administrative restructuring or where real in-house monitoring is provided for.
At the same time I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Weiler, on her well balanced report highlighting the need for legal certainty in this area.
That is the principal message I should once again like to take to the Commission in connection with this report. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of public-private partnerships has for some time been part of the new boundaries of welfare state systems within the European Union.
A general exclusion of all forms of public-public cooperation from the scope of the Community rules on public contracts and of the rules on concessions would therefore be unacceptable.
Next, I shall respond to Mrs Rühle and to Mrs Gebhardt on the issue of public-private partnerships and on the 'in-house' concept.
The 'in-house' concept excludes the application of the rules governing public contracts when a public body grants a contract or a concession to a third party over which it exercises some control.
For these reasons and also so as not to have to start from scratch with the new public contract rules, which are scarcely at the transposition stage in the Member States, we think it appropriate to legislate on mixed public-private companies and on the 'in-house' concept.
We explained this in the 2004 Green Paper on PPPs and we plan to clarify our position in the texts that we are due to present in 2007.
To begin with, the Commission must look more closely at the costs and benefits of a binding initiative on the granting of concessions, and at other measures suitable for dealing with the problems at stake.
The debate is closed.
