Efficiency and equity in European education and training systems (debate) The next item is the report by Tomáš Zatloukal, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on efficiency and equity in European education and training systems.
I would like to point out that at the level of primary education premature categorisation of pupils has a detrimental effect.
On the other hand, differentiation and creating a flexible range of study options is very effective at secondary level.
A further benefit is a reduction in unemployment: in today's EU the average unemployment rate is 12.6% amongst people who have completed primary or secondary education, as against 5% in the case of people who have completed higher education.
Education and training are basic factors contributing to long-term European economic growth, to competitiveness and to social cohesion.
We will take full account of it in our forthcoming initiatives in the field of education and training, especially in the proposal for the 2008 Joint Report on the implementation of our work programme and our reflections for the future, and in the Green Paper on the links between education and migration, in which inequalities will be a central issue.
Efficiency must be promoted and emphasised from the pre-school level onwards, in schools and also in the vocational training system.
I have mentioned only a few problems that are no doubt also relevant in other new Member States of the European Union.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, there is a popular saying in Poland according to which if you fail to learn certain things in childhood, you will suffer the consequences for the rest of your life.
It is appropriate too that the draft resolution clearly identifies the need to link policies on vocational education and training with policies on employment, the economy, social integration, improving the competitiveness of higher education and enabling everyone to access it on equal terms.
As regards the equity of educational and training systems, I believe that Member States should find the necessary means to increase the degree of access to education and training of children, young people and adults.
There are enough human resources, yet they are not trained and managed efficiently. (ES) Madam President, the review of the Lisbon objectives we carried out in 2005 demonstrated once more how important it is to position education and training at the core of future EU strategy.
Not only is making efficient and effective progress in the education systems of our Member States important in terms of international competitiveness and economic growth; it is also an essential component of making progress in terms of social cohesion in our societies.
Equal access to education, which is such an important factor in ensuring that all children and young people have equal opportunities in life, is linked to the financing of education in the Member States of the Union.
Budget cuts in education, rising costs of higher education and the difficult social situation of a high percentage of families and young people are preventing Portugal from rapidly improving the higher education of its population, resulting in the worst indices in the European Union.
Given that studies show that, for every additional year of average school attendance, productivity increases selectively by 6.2% in an average country of the European Union, we can understand better the difficulties of those countries which do not give their citizens access to high-quality education. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, education has played, and continues to play, a key role in the development of the European economy and the personal development of young people.
Disabled children must also have access to education.
I believe the Commission and Member States must put as much emphasis on quality as on efficiency and equity.
But there is even a more urgent and basic issue - that of hungry children in our schools.
Member of the Commission. - (SK) I would like to thank you for a convergent debate since it confirms not only the report and the Commission communication on this matter but also the position of the Member States, which expressed their views at the ministerial meeting in November and subsequently in that half of 2007 when the Council adopted conclusions that also confirmed the basic points in the Commission communication.
In terms of improvement, there is a systematic need, for example, for quality assessment as a basic tool and not as an exception, not as something extraordinary but as a rule, where inputs, outputs and everything in between are evaluated, and quality is assessed and rewarded.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 27 September 2007.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (ET) Time waits for no man.
