&#160;&#160; We shall begin with the joint debate on the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2006.
We shall examine - the report by Mr Giovanni Pittella, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2006 (Section III, Commission) [C6-0299/2005 2005/2001(BUD)] (A6-0309/2005) and - the report by Mr Valdis Dombrovskis, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2006 (Section I, European Parliament; Section II, Council; Section IV, Court of Justice; Section V, Court of Auditors; Section VI, European Economic and Social Committee; Section VII, Committee of the Regions; Section VIII (A), European Ombudsman; Section VIII (B), European Data Protection Supervisor) [C6-0300/2005 2005/2002(BUD)] (A6-0307/2005). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, two questions have often sprung to my mind during this long process that has brought us to the vote at first reading.
The financial resources needed to carry out our work are a key issue.
It is therefore imperative to promote economic development by addressing structural shortcomings, stimulating sustainable growth and significantly boosting employment and competitiveness.
This policy needs to be made at European level because that is the only level at which it can be effective in terms of costs, procedure rationalisation and standardisation, resource sharing, objective setting and exchange of good practice.
Mr&#160;Blair is right to remind us – as he did in his passionate and well-received inaugural speech for the UK Presidency here in this House – that we have to modernise our social model and drastically cut the dreadful figure of 20 million unemployed by raising productivity, training more workers in the sciences and making human capital our top priority.
The people of Europe are thus all the more justified in lamenting the Union’s substantial lack of influence on the broader international stage.
The Community budget, roughly amounting to a mere EUR 5&#160;billion, is now expected to cover reconstruction in Iraq, reconstruction in Afghanistan, the tsunami emergency, humanitarian aid, strengthening democracy, protecting human rights in crisis regions, fighting poverty and destitution, cooperation programmes in the Mediterranean and the Balkans, and dozens and dozens of other major initiatives.
This contradictory position leads our fellow citizens to see us all – the European Parliament, the Commission and the European Council – as classic cases of ineffectual leaders.
Those, then, are the issues that I believe concern our budget.
I regard the strategy adopted by the Committee on Budgets as being based on the following principles: remaining consistent with previous years’ approaches; leaving all possible strategic options open to Parliament, so that a final decision can be made during conciliation in November, without nullifying the interinstitutional agreement at this juncture, but making maximum use of the flexibility instrument to stand by all our priorities; guaranteeing an adequate general level of payments; ensuring an adequate general level of Structural Fund payments; providing maximum support to achieve the Lisbon goals by increasing funding for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, the environment and above all youth policies; increasing the financial commitment under heading 4 (external actions), where the ceiling does not allow funding for the new emergencies that every year are added to the existing ones – Afghanistan, Iraq, the tsunami – at the same time as Parliament’s traditional priorities.
Representatives of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that is our position.
My final message is again addressed directly to the Council.
Therefore, the 2006 budget will also serve as a point of reference in taking decisions for the next Financial Perspective, that for 2007–2013.
With regard to the 2006 budget for the other EU institutions, the main priorities are EU enlargement and the effective and highly targeted use of EU budget resources.
The first priority is connected with the successful completion of the 2004 round of EU enlargement, by fully integrating representatives from the new EU Member States into the EU institutions, as well as preparations for the next round of EU enlargement, when Bulgaria and Romania will join.
We have an unacceptable situation where, despite more than a year having already passed since EU enlargement, many permanent staff posts set aside for the new Member States still remain vacant.
In order to ensure that the next round of EU enlargement is successful, it is proposed that support should be given to all the permanent staff posts requested by the other institutions in connection with enlargement, and also other additional expenditure connected with EU enlargement.
This priority encompasses such matters as: focusing EU institutional expenditure on fundamental tasks; giving support to requests for new budget requests and permanent staff posts only after having assessed the possibility of redistributing resources and staff within the framework of the existing budget; giving support to new initiatives only after having assessed their impact on the budget and interinstitutional cooperation with a view to economical and effective use of budget resources.
Of course, the issue of the sum of over 200 million euro per year which is spent additionally in order to provide the European Parliament with a seat in Strasbourg is still a topical one.
Considerable attention has been paid in the European Parliament’s budget for 2006 to information and communication policy, to ensure that information is accessible and that the work of the European Parliament is better explained to EU citizens.
The European Parliament’s role as the representative of the EU Member States should be especially stressed in this connection.
It is proposed that in 2006 the European Parliament’s visitors’ programme should be improved, and that a special reserve should be established for information and communication.
The attitude adopted by the European Council in connection with the EU budget for 2005, where it artificially blocked the amount of payment appropriations, was unacceptable.
The European Commission is preparing amendments to the 2005 budget, providing a larger sum of payment appropriations for the Structural Funds.
If the European Council tries once more to block the amount of payment appropriations for the 2006 budget, that will prove the Council’s unwillingness to fully finance those commitments which the EU has undertaken within the framework of the existing Financial Perspective.
In conclusion, I would also like particularly to draw the attention of Commissioner Grybauskaitė to the poor quality of the Latvian translation of the budget prepared by the European Commission.
I would like to thank Parliament for its evaluation of the draft budget for 2006, Mr Pittella for his appraisal of our growing understanding and the cooperation of the Commission and Parliament as well as the manner in which all discussions and preparations for budget acceptance have taken place.
Mr Pitella has set us a fine example with his presentation.
On agricultural expenditure, under heading 1a, the Commission will, in a week’s time, present its new estimates in accordance with the new market tendencies which, according to our information, will mean a reduction in the estimates that the Commission proposed for agricultural expenditure.
As regards the second heading – structural actions – the PDB proposed by the Commission was presented and established on the basis of observed trends and our revised estimates, which do not exactly correspond with those of the Member States.
The Commission will submit an amending letter at the beginning of November, bearing in mind that we will be receiving the final data from the Member States at the end of this month, so we will be coming to you in the first weeks of November with the final level, which will have to be determined in trialogue in November.
External action is the most difficult heading for all of us, especially because it entails pressure as regards the use of the Flexibility Instrument.
This defines and distinguishes clearly how we should reflect or understand the Flexibility Instrument’s usage in future, and I would like to re-confirm what I said recently in COBU: the Commission and its Legal Service understand that, for 2006, up to EUR 493 million are available under the Flexibility Instrument.
I also welcome the reaction from Council and Parliament to our message sent in September about recruitment, and I would like to correct a point in Mr Dombrovskis’ presentation.
So, if EUR 16 million is to be reserved in the way proposed today, subject to very demanding conditions, which cannot be met promptly next year, we will be confronted with recruitment problems in respect of about half of the new posts proposed, some 200 to 300 posts.
I will send this to you in advance of the second reading.
We would like to wish the rapporteur and Parliament a very constructive debate and successful vote tomorrow.
The Commission will be on your side, helping to reach a deal for 2006 in November or, at the latest, in December. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, in my capacity as deputy for the draftsman, Mrs&#160;De Keyser, I should like to highlight three points raised by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
The second point concerns aid for reconstruction in Iraq.
Mr Pittella has himself explained how external actions have been very difficult: Afghanistan, Iraq, the tsunami, Gaza, and the earthquake.
In other words, Hong Kong in December can be more important for development than the Gleneagles summit in the summer was.
It is not that we do not already have trade assistance in our budget, but at the moment it is spread over two hundred different budget lines.
The Trade Committee would like this to be unified into one single budget line.
I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets for coming to a couple of meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control and listening to the concerns and queries of the Committee.
The process by which the Budgetary Control Committee operates is as follows: we go through our discharge reports and look at conclusions and points that we have raised with which the House has concurred and which the Commission has not completely implemented, and then draw up amendments to try to ensure implementation in the future.
We also look at the OLAF budget in great detail because it is one of the areas where we have many concerns and will have many concerns in the future.
This year, OLAF asked for a great deal more staff, in fact 25 new staff and an increase in its budget of 10&#160;%, which our committee, the committee that should be the most proactive and supportive of OLAF (as I believe it probably is), was concerned that this level of new staff was not actually required.
One of the amendments in the budget this year has details on that.
You know that we are committed to the PRINCE Programme ‘The euro, a currency for Europe’ because, as we also know, a second wave of euros is due to be introduced and we therefore need to continue to keep citizens in all of our countries interested in the currency.
Finally, we are very keen to help SMEs by promoting both a viable economic environment for microenterprises and ethical financing instruments.
As for giving support to the Fiscalis Programme, which is aimed at improving the functioning of the indirect taxation systems of the internal market, we are training the officials required in each country because, as far as we are concerned, doing so will guarantee that the Union has a future and is secure and prosperous. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank Mr Pittella for his outstanding work throughout the 2006 budgetary procedure.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, for whose opinion I was the draftsperson, welcomes the fact that the Committee on Budgets has acknowledged and accepted the need to increase certain headings, and, moreover, to reinstate the amounts laid down in the preliminary draft budget with regard to the European Social Fund, the EQUAL programme, EURES, measures to fight and prevent social exclusion and the Leonardo programme.
Furthermore, we cannot consent to the Council’s amendments aimed at reducing expenditure on transport safety bodies.
In view of these two key issues, we should like to make it quite clear that an efficient transport system is in the interests of the citizens of the EU and of its economy, and I would ask all the political groups and Members of this House to lend us their support.
The rapporteur took the needs of the Member States into account by again increasing the payments by 40%, and so there are two things I ask of them.
I would like to ask the House to endorse two more proposals from the Regional Committee, one being for a project on the European networking of SMEs, and the other for a study on the particular needs of the new Member States as regards the reconstruction of panel-built housing estates – a problem we have frequently discussed in this House without any exact knowledge of the challenges with which these present the Member States in question. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I too wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr Pittella, who has set both the political vision of this budget and the technical vision, which is direct and functional.
Up to now, the Commission has told us that agricultural spending will be improved or will be determined on the basis of a corrective letter.
However, nor will the European Parliament be credible if it votes for the amendment by the Committee on Budgets, on the basis of which Community subsidies are being put in reserve, by which we mean frozen, at a time when the reform of the COM in tobacco is here and has been voted on by all the governments of the Member States.
I should like to ask the Commission why it has not also included tobacco in the new draft budget, together with all the products which it has included in the subdivisions of category 1.
They include supporting the newer Member States in making adjustments to their fisheries sector, investment in environmentally friendly fishing methods, adequate funding for the development of regional advisory councils, economic aid to assist those whose livelihood is affected by reductions in fishing effort, more consistent allocation of appropriations for research, greater account of the needs of remote regions and better implementation of control instruments so as to ensure respect for both substantive and financial rules.
Generally speaking – and, at this point, I should like to thank our general rapporteur and my fellow Members from the Committee on Budgets – these amendments have been accepted by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and will, I hope, be adopted tomorrow by plenary.
Turning more specifically to the fight against terrorism, we are proposing a substantial increase in the operational resources given to Eurojust, at the same time as increasing by nearly 30% the appropriations allocated to the pilot project, which our Parliament wanted in order to coordinate more effectively the resources for anticipating and confronting the terrorist threat.
Moreover, we are in favour of allocating the resources requested by the Commission in order to have a real crisis management capacity and we are proposing to extend the appropriations designed to help the victims of terrorist acts in such a way as to include legal aid.
I am sure Mr Heaton-Harris is really happy about it, but I hate to tell him that I am very happy with his proposal, because he gave a lot of money to the PRINCE programme.
That is a great thing, and, therefore, I am pleased about the changes the Committee on Budgetary Control made.
For that we need money.
However, I think, personally and as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that it is very important to get that debate going, and the fact that the Commission has put down a plan B – sorry, a plan D – and is receiving over EUR&#160;4&#160;million in commitments from the Committee on Budgets is a good thing, and also good for the future of the Union. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, as regards Community policy on gender equality, I should like to start by thanking Mr&#160;Pittella, who accepted the amendments relating to the integration of equality in all chapters on Community policy.
I should also like the amendment to be supported which has already been adopted in the budget, strengthening financing for the Daphne II programme, a programme which aims to address the phenomenon of violence against women and children.
In addition, I consider it important for the amendments by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality on greater financing for women's organisations, especially the European women's lobby, to be supported.
That is because the action by these organisations is essential to promoting gender equality in social, economic and political life and to achieving the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy of better and stronger participation by women in the labour market. &#160;&#160; . – Firstly I would like to congratulate rapporteur Giovanni Pittella for his excellent report and would like to thank him for his constructive cooperation during the first reading of the budget in the European Parliament.
I am satisfied that we in the Budget Committee succeeded in making decisions on the most important priorities: the European Union's competitiveness and union’s improved funding, support for small and medium business, other measures for implementing the Lisbon Strategy, improvement in the security of citizens, consolidation of the recent expansion of the European Union and the growth of the European Union's role as a world partner.
If the Council approves the European Parliament's proposal on a flexible instrument, we will have sufficient funds to finance reconstruction in Iraq and Afghanistan and the necessary aid to carry out post-tsunami reconstruction work in several Asian countries. 2006 is an exceptional year from the budgetary point of view.
I should like to say to you that our rapporteurs and all of the members of the Committee on Budgets have adopted a strategic approach with regard to this budget.
These needs are extensive and they certainly cost a lot of money.
However, we must not forget that the EU has an ever increasing number of new needs: in terms of employment, sustainable development and everything the Lisbon Strategy entails for research, networks, information for citizens, training and security in every sense of the word, whether security against terrorism, border security or security, for example, in the current context of avian influenza.
On the other hand, the EU also has duties to fulfil, as regards, for example, helping the poorest people and those countries awaiting membership of the European Union, not to mention helping other countries in which the death toll is constantly rising in terms of victims of natural disasters, be they the tsunami, typhoons or the earthquake in Pakistan, of countries and regions that have been caught up in conflict – the Balkans, Afghanistan, Iraq, Gaza – and of the sugar reform.
I am, however, obliged to recognise that our relationship with the Commission is improving: that is why it seems to me that, this year, we have made further progress in our method of working, precisely in order to execute the budget more effectively.
Our action will have to focus not only on the pilot projects we hold most dear, but on all the other pilot projects: for example, relating to SMEs, to youth assistance – particularly as part of the Erasmus programme – and to aid for the poorest countries to promote vaccinations throughout the world.
My final point is that, above all, we must continue to disseminate more information around us.
In the context of our budget, we have used nothing more than what we were entitled to within the current financial perspectives, which enable us to call for a large degree of flexibility.
That is what we have done because, if we truly want to have a common future, this requirement for flexibility is crucial so that we can carry out the minimum policies sought by the European Union.
Mr&#160;Pittella has made the youth and education programmes his main priority, and that is to his credit, I think.
Thanks should also go to Mr&#160;Dombrovskis for his work involving the other institutions.
Those points in the compromise that we in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe would particularly emphasise involve increased appropriations to the Lisbon Process, especially to research and to the programme for developing credit facilities for small enterprises in the new Member States.
For two years, the payment appropriations in the budget have in actual fact been too low, and that is the situation we are remedying.
It is a small thing, but a very important one.
Clearly, this budgetary debate is influenced by the lack of agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-2013.
My group comes out, then, in clear support of the proposal before us.
Any strategy of this kind must form part of the Lisbon strategy, for it is environmental technologies that will give us an edge on the world market.
Turning to foreign policy, the Council keeps delivering itself of pious utterances about how we need to do more: more in Iraq, more in Afghanistan, more for the victims of the tsunami.
In the drafting of the budget, a very stringent policy has been followed with regard to Section IV, whose ceiling for expenditure Parliament wishes to raise through maximum use of the flexibility instrument.
The budget implementation figures proposed by the Commission for 2005 show that there is, and has been for a long time now, a lot of air in this Section; either that or the Commission is not implementing the wishes of Parliament with regard to the budget.
The Council, in its own draft budget, has cut EUR 8 billion from the payment requirements put forward by the Member States.
The same ministers who, on behalf of their countries, sent the Commission their country’s estimate of the amount of money needed to make payments for structural action have, in the Council, pruned back by a fifth the very requirements that they themselves put forward.
Fourthly, there is a lack of political will and initiative to stimulate the economies of the new Member States, with the result that the post-Communist countries remain backward and dependent in economic terms.
Fifthly, the EU leaders have pushed though the decision on Turkey’s accession to the EU, despite the opposition of the majority of citizens to this decision, and despite the fact that there is a concurrent lack of political will, vision or strategy as regards Ukraine’s accession.
The 2006 budget makes no attempt to solve any of the above-mentioned problems, and in fact the opposite is the case.
At the same time, there will not be enough money to fund research and development, large infrastructure projects or aid for backward regions and countries.
The scope and structure of the 2006 budget will make it impossible to meet the challenges posed by the enlargement of the EU to include 10&#160;new Member States.
Worse yet, the 2006 budget contains a long list of superfluous expenses for a wide range of consultancy and promotional services, as well as increased spending on administration and bureaucracy.
Once again, Parliament is faced with the difficult task of adopting a draft budget that not only meets our expectations, but at the same time can be agreed on with the Council.
The Commission only increased commitments and payments by 4% and 5.9% respectively in the draft 2006 budget, in the expectation that the Council would otherwise raise objections.
I need hardly add that this is a source of great concern to the new Member States, including Poland.
The Polish delegation in the Union for Europe of the Nations Group is celebrating a victory in the parliamentary and presidential elections held recently in Poland.
We are in favour of the EU, even if we criticise its lack of cohesion and solidarity.
I would like to express my appreciation for the skilful manner in which the distinguished rapporteurs Mr&#160;Pittella and Mr Dombrovskis from Parliament’s Budget Committee have succeeded in coping with a virtual ‘pandemic’ of proposals for the 2006 EU budget.
In my view, this shifting and strengthening of budgetary resources is not self-serving.
However, getting support for this increase will call for considerable effort and a united stance during Parliament’s negotiations with the Council and the Commission.
It is important that we have a homogenous first reading, because we must go into the conciliation on the 24th all united and certain of the support of the political groups and the Members of this House.
Firstly, we have stretched category 4 for external actions to the maximum.
Secondly, there appears to be no end to the deadlock amongst the Member States with regard to the financial perspective; we are at risk of reaching 2006 with no viable financial plan.
The European Parliament must take precautions, because the application of Article 272 of the Treaty is, for the first time – I repeat, for the first time – a real possibility.
My group supports Mr Pittella and Mr Dombrovskis, who have presented a very courageous and innovative draft budget to the European Parliament, and I would ask them to maintain their positions at second reading and conciliation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to thank Mr Pittella and Mr Dombrovskis for their very good work.
Mr Dombrovskis, as rapporteur for other institutions, has incorporated most of our group’s priorities into his final resolution.
One such priority was the retention of Parliament’s budget at the 20% level of heading 5.
If used effectively, this benchmark provides us with the stability and rigour necessary for any budget.
Moreover, we have increased the reserve allocated to property investment and we reserve the right to utilise the EUR&#160;20 million reduction in the contingency reserve as a capital injection for any eventual purchase of new parliamentary buildings.
The policy on acquisition of property was very successful and made much financial sense.
In this year’s budget we have made available enough funds to start implementing, hopefully, an effective and citizen-friendly information strategy.
Proper manpower planning, including redeployment, recruitment harmonisation and training services improvement should also be considered priorities in 2006.
We need to initiate a prioritised plan catering for our future needs, bearing in mind that, with effect from 2009, we would have to budget over EUR&#160;100 million per annum resulting from the Members’ Statute.
These changes and reforms should improve the quality and performance of our institutions.
However, in the final analysis, one has to review this in terms of the impact on the new citizens, offering them a product with added value that meets their expectations and, in so doing, strengthens the image and credibility of the European Parliament and other institutions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is by money that we show what things are worth to us.
Mr&#160;Dombrovskis’ task was perhaps even more complicated, for he had a tough job to do within Parliament itself, there always being a difficult trial of strength between the Committee on Budgets and the Bureau, and I believe that he has thoroughly fulfilled this task, even if it was sometimes difficult to do so.
Since my colleague, Mrs&#160;Trüpel, has focused her speech on the general budget, I should like to focus mine on Parliament’s budget so as to put down a marker because, in my opinion, we are preparing to vote in favour of a rather absurd provision.
For the first time in its history, Parliament is abandoning the theoretical threshold of 20% administrative expenditure.
In its resolution, our Parliament says that we are giving up EUR&#160;20&#160;million.
I am going to leave this Chamber in exactly four minutes to go and negotiate the sale of some new buildings for Parliament.
It is therefore already clear that we are going to need that money.
I believe that each citizen would be very pleased to receive these four cents.
Now, therefore, I put that same question directly to the Council and the Commission.
Furthermore, what is the point of a debate about a 2006 budget which we all know will bear no relationship to the way the money will actually have been spent?
The European Court of Auditors has, for good reason, refused to sign off the EU’s accounts for the last 10 years and said, in its last report, that 95% of the EU’s budget was open to fraud.
Before we start debating ways to spend next year’s money, I believe we should sort out the mess that has been left behind in previous years.
I call upon you all, in good conscience, to reject the 2006 budget. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to comment on two specific aspects of budgetary policy: the common agricultural policy and the peace initiative.
After what I have heard in this House this morning, I want to state a very basic fact: we cannot, in any way, go back on our word as regards the common agricultural policy, in relation to the budget or to the WTO talks.
We gave our word in Berlin in 2002 and we must keep our word.
That peace programme has been vitally important to developments in my country.
We should be moving not only towards a balance of the Maastricht kind, but also towards a long-term balance in the economic cycle and even towards a social balance.
Hence, the specific reason why, among 900 amendments, I tabled my Amendment 146, which has been endorsed by nearly all of the groups and which proposes establishing a European Mayors’ Day in order to entrench Europe in local democracy, a grass roots Europe that is to some extent a Europe of the people, characterised by solidarity and firmly rooted in its villages and in everyday democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what makes our discussion, at European level, of the 2006 budget so exciting is the fact that it is the last budget under the current Financial Perspective, and so, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are determining what the fundamentals of the 2007 will be like in the absence of a Financial Perspective.
Therefore, I welcome Commissioner Wallström’s initiative to regenerate communication tools through the use of plan D, but stress that this will only be a success if adequate resources are made available.
Secondly, the biggest challenge for this year’s budget and for future financing is in heading 4: External actions.
Given the number of new regions where the EU has had to intervene recently, combined with the frequency and the destructive enormity of the natural disasters affecting largely poor countries and not least the recent earthquake in Pakistan and India, for which it is essential we increase resources next year, I believe there is a dire need for the Council and the Commission to have a thorough rethink on how these new areas are to be funded and, at the same time, how we are going to meet our obligations in achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
The situation as regards this heading is further exacerbated by an unwillingness to be more flexible vis-à-vis the sugar regime, where it is very important for us to help poor farmers, but, at the same time, it will add more pressure in heading 4.
Whilst on agriculture, this brings me to my third point.
I am extremely pleased that my amendment on reducing tobacco subsidies was adopted in the Committee on Budgets.
Therefore, I am calling on all colleagues to support this particular amendment.
Finally, on Parliament’s budget, I must admit that I am somewhat perplexed by our strategy – or the lack of it – as it really is a shame that ... &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;Dombrovskis, Mr&#160;Pittella, Europe is currently going through a major institutional crisis, combined with economic problems which are often on a very large-scale in some EU countries and which entail, as we all know, shortcomings in their political prospects.
Now, more than ever, our fellow citizens need to have their faith in the future, and their confidence in Europe, restored.
Everyone – or nearly everyone – in this House believes that the draft general budget proposed by the Council corresponds neither to the level of powers that our fellow citizens want to entrust to the European Union nor to the new tasks that the Union wants to undertake today.
As permanent rapporteur for the Structural Funds within the Committee on Budgets, I should like to highlight the importance of these funds and the need for us to emphasise them, not only to make our action clearer to our fellow European citizens but also to bring the territories in this Europe of 450 million people more in line with one another.
Finally, although I am delighted that we are strongly emphasising our support for research, development and youth, I should like, on the other hand, to protest against the totally inadequate sum allocated to the External actions heading: there lies the key to our credibility in Europe and to the strength of the European dream. &#160;&#160; – Although Parliament’s proposal improves on the Council’s proposal in terms of volume of payments, it fails to meet the economic, social and environmental needs and challenges presented by an enlarged EU.
In spite of our broadly critical stance, we call on Members to adopt the amendments to which we put our name, which were aimed at setting up a pilot project for actions in the textiles and clothing sector, in turn leading to a Community programme for the sector, as proposed by Parliament; at setting up recovery plans for fisheries resources, in light of the social and economic impact of the closed seasons; and at promoting multilingualism, not least in the ACP-EU parliamentary assemblies. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Parliament’s draft budget for 2006 implies an increase of 1.04% in the Member States’ average gross national income.
The Council, by which I mean the Member States’ governments, proposes that expenditure be limited to 1.01% of gross national income for 2006.
My basic attitude is that Parliament should have significant influence over the prioritising within this framework but that political responsibility in the various countries for how much tax should be collected lies with the national governments.
Parliament should confine itself to the main task of prioritising within the framework established by the Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one gets the feeling, when listening to Mr Ferber, that it is very unfortunate that he has not yet been summoned to Berlin to take charge of the Germans’ financial arrangements in Brussels, for then a few things would change.
It is also regrettable, Mr Ferber, that you are in a minority in your own group, and what is even worse is if, as a former lead candidate for the Social Democrats – which is what I am – you have to listen to this gentleman with his unending ‘more, more, more’ and nothing else, with no sign of comprehension that times have changed and that less might often mean more.
We need alliances – alliances that cross Europe, alliances that are democratic, alliances that have transparency as their objective and will at last bring pressure to bear to get what is currently being done badly changed right across Europe and for the good of its citizens. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the first reading of the European Union’s 2006 budget serves as evidence that the European Parliament, which is a symbol of diversity and provides a forum for all views, even those as radical as the ones we heard a few moments ago, is capable of reaching a compromise on complex budgetary issues.
We have succeeded in reaching this compromise despite the fact that 2006 is a challenging year from a budgetary point of view, for reasons that have already been mentioned.
Expenditure has increased as a result of circumstances that could not have been foreseen at the start of the current Financial Perspective.
The European Parliament has thus adopted a position, both on the 2006 annual budget and on the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective.
Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for the EU governments acting through the Council.
We expect them to reach a position on the multi-annual financial perspective, and we also expect them to ensure that the conciliation meetings to be held in November on the 2006 budget will not be wasted opportunities.
It is noteworthy that it includes confirmation of Parliament’s right to participate in 20% of administrative expenditure, while at the same time starting the search for ways in which Parliament itself could make savings.
We are also making good use of the flexibility instrument, in accordance with Commissioner&#160;Grybauskaitė’s understanding of this mechanism.
We are well aware that consensus on budgetary issues is the good news for which the European Union’s citizens are waiting. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too should like to start by congratulating our rapporteur, Giovanni Pittella, on his excellent and – if I may say so – bold work.
The budget for 2006 is being debated in the middle of a serious crisis of political orientation in the European Union, which was reflected in the impasse on the new financial perspectives.
We here in the European Parliament shall vote for the amendments which strengthen the Community budget and the policies which Europe and its peoples need today.
Likewise, I wish to thank Mr&#160;Lewandovski, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, and Commissioner Grybauskaitė for the excellent level of cooperation she has shown.
The Committee’s draft budget reflects a strong desire to improve employment and competitiveness in the EU.
Parliament, of course, adopted its own negotiating position in its adoption of Mr&#160;Böge’s creditable report last spring.
It is particularly important to secure funding for the EU’s future from the point of view of the major priorities, which are improved competitiveness in the Union, investment in research and development, and improvements in public safety.
Agriculture will need a structural change in the future, but these changes must be made in such a way that agriculture can be practised in the future throughout the Union as a whole, including the peripheral regions.
The Union budget should in future make better provision for this, so that we can react quickly both within the Union’s borders and outside them.
Mr Dombrovskis, Parliament’s own rapporteur for the budget, should be congratulated for ensuring that Parliament sets a good example by budgeting according to real needs and not according to how much money might possibly have been spent on developing various more or less appropriate new schemes and projects.
An accountable Parliament inspiring public confidence drafts its budget with reference to real costs, not percentages. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to start by expressing my disappointment at the fact that the British Presidency is conspicuous by its absence.
The Council has never kept to that undertaking; never has there been any consultation at a high political level.
That is why democracy should verify these. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in this cycle we have set ourselves significant targets: improved employment opportunities, better traffic, a knowledge-based society, strong cohesion, our visible presence in the world.
If in the second round the Council does not support this merely symbolic extra expenditure, it acknowledges that it does not take national development plans seriously, that the new Member States have failed to learn from the mistakes of the first years and that governments who believe they are able to solve their own problems by holding back on the Union are still in the majority.
Therefore I urge you, my fellow Members of the House, to support the proposal presented to us! &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all I, too, would like to congratulate Giovanni Pitella for his excellent work and wonderful report.
On the one hand, because it represents a transition to the 2007-2013 financial plan which will be defined within the framework developed by the European Parliament and will hopefully be accepted as soon as possible, and on the other hand because the representatives of all Member States have participated as equal members in the creation of this budget, from the preliminary work to completion.
Close cooperation was evident not only during Commission meetings, but also during conciliation sessions in the course of developing the 2006 budget and the 2007-2013 financial perspective.
The main figures of the 2006 budget in respect of Hungary have been known, they had already been determined through the Copenhagen Agreement.
We are particularly pleased that following a Hungarian proposal we wish to ensure a larger allocation to Serbia, demonstrating that the EU does not only impose conditions, but also rewards their implementation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to make three brief political comments.
Firstly, deleting all the appropriations from one sector, such as tobacco, does not reflect the sensitivity which our Parliament has traditionally shown to the weakest groups of society.
Secondly, this slender budget, with a 1% limit, does not allow us to exercise policy which is worthy of the ambitions of the Europe we want.
The Committee believes it to be necessary that such safeguards be put in place, as they have already had a beneficial effect on the Committee’s own capacities and improved its response to European citizens’ needs.
The PSE Group has indicated that it would be in favour of this.
Above all, if China carries on polluting and thus having a negative effect on the climate, do we not want to do anything to stop imports of Chinese products if they are produced non-ecologically? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to point out that I followed the rapporteur’s line on the Doyle report and regard Article 175 as the right legal basis, on the grounds that Austria and Denmark have already adopted wholesale bans on the use of these f-gases, and their experiences show that alternatives to them are, in principle, technically and economically workable and that these have a far less damaging effect on the environment.
It honours the commitments under the Kyoto Protocol to reduce greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere; 2.
The legal base is an important issue.
Using Article 175 as the sole legal base would have had a negative impact on the operation of the internal market, without having any real merits in terms of the environment.
However, we cannot support those amendments to the legislation which seek to impose bans on certain F-gases without a proper impact assessment.
The legislation provides for a review clause in article 10 and this is the proper mechanism to deal with any possible prohibitions. &#160;&#160; .The three fluorinated gases concerned here – HFC, PFC and sulphur hexafluoride – contribute to the phenomenon of global warming.
I voted in favour of the Doyle report for two reasons: Firstly, as a result of the efforts already made by industry.
Secondly, the use of these three gases for such varied purposes as refrigeration and air conditioning systems, fire extinguishers or pharmaceutical aerosols for treating asthma justifies a balanced approach between guaranteeing people’s well being and protecting the climate.
Finally, I should like to point out that we can fight effectively against greenhouse gases without making a ‘purely legal’ show of the matter.
That is why I rejected the having the ‘environment’ as the sole legal base, which would have had only one effect: that of splintering the single market into 25 different sets of legislation.
The fact that it is founded on a single legal basis, namely Article 95 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, means that the functioning of the common market could be disrupted, which is an alarming prospect.
Poland and the other Member States that have not imposed restrictions on the use of F-gases are firmly opposed to this decision.
I am in favour of an accelerated timetable for the implementation of this proposal overall but with a longer timetable for small-scale car producers. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted for the report by Mr&#160;Florenz, whom I congratulate, because his report aims at reducing environmentally harmful noise emissions.
It would appear that the technical know-how available five years ago and the progress made since have brought new data to light that will enable us to make fresh changes to the limit values.
If the directive is published before the end of the year in the Official Journal, the manufacturers concerned will have the necessary legal certainty for their products.
I and my British Conservative colleagues are broadly supportive of the TENs projects but have abstained on the final vote because of our concerns that the increased amounts being suggested are excessive and would breach Member States' financial contributions of 1% GNI. &#160;&#160; .
This report concerns Community cofinancing for planned transport and energy networks, as part of the ‘Lisbon Strategy’ objectives, or, in other words, the completion of the internal market – with priority given to the internal market’s eastward enlargement – in which privatisation and competition are encouraged in the fields of transport and energy.
We welcome the report’s proposal to increase the level of Community cofinancing for these projects, yet the report does not say that the global financing package needs to be increased for this purpose.
Europe must invest in transport and energy infrastructure.
I should have voted against when this proposal was adopted.
I feel that, in view of the list of 30 transport priority projects, we must establish clear rules for the granting of financial aid, in such a way that these projects can develop in compliance with other Community policy, on the basis of effectiveness criteria and transparency rules as regards the financing of projects.
Lastly, nobody is in any doubt that this report will help us to implement measures aimed at promoting the investments required to achieve the Lisbon objectives.
We have voted in favour of those amendments that emphasise that this is a minimal directive and that thus make it clear that national flexibility is to be permitted.
We have voted against the report as a whole.
We have confidence that the Member States’ national food authorities are fully competent to deal with this important issue in a satisfactory way.
Temporary cooperation by the state authorities with criminals in order to be able to combat these later on is of but little use; it is a positive invitation to more corruption and more mismanagement.
The Danish Social Democrats are aware, that the proposal concerns an issue within&#160;section IV in the TEU, on which Denmark has an opt-out. &#160;&#160; The June List is in favour of increased cooperation and greater exchange of information between the Member States with a view to combating organised cross-border crime.
We nonetheless share the concerns expressed by members of our Group regarding certain aspects of this report, including the following: - the extension of the definition of a criminal organisation, in the context of the fight against organised crime, to cover groups of people whose purpose is not that of financial or other material gain, circumventing the definition in the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime, which classifies organisations whose purpose is financial or material gain under the heading of organised crime – thereby excluding political or social motivations; - the increased possibility of incriminating people in a way that may lead to ambiguity; in other words, people not involved in criminal activities could be incriminated; - much remains to be done to combat organised crime, given the resources currently available, and the report advocates the creation of a ‘European Union police force’, while sidestepping the underlying causes of organised crime.
Although I am opposed to setting up a European police force – a real European FBI – it is, in actual fact, necessary to strengthen cooperation between the Member States, but to do so by fully respecting national sovereignties where the police, justice and the fight against cross-border organised crime are concerned.
There is an urgent need to step up the fight against international crime on European territory, for the sake of our societies in the years ahead.
The new text on the table seeks to improve the effectiveness of the fight against organised crime.
I voted in favour of the Dunn report, because I believe that these measures may help strengthen the fight against organised crime. &#160;&#160; . – The framework decision and (more importantly) the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs propose the adoption of a common definition of and penalties for participation in organised crime, while particular importance is attached to the responsibility of legal persons if they are considered to be involved in organised crime activities.
Obvious evidence of this is the recent premeditated plot against the chairman of the Workers' Party of Ireland, Sean Garland, who is in danger of being handed over to the USA on charges of 'communist conspiracy in order to undermine the American dollar'.
Already in plenary of the European Parliament we have heard an insulting speech presenting the activity of a political organisation (Sinn Fein) as organised crime.
However, we do not accept measures which might be a pretext for the criminalisation of political activity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to point out that it is, in principle, the Member States that are responsible for taking the action needed to forestall the flu pandemic that is being prophesied.
Hence our calls for the Commission to provide financial support for a monitoring system, laboratory tests, research into suitable vaccines, vaccination in the Member States and financial and technical support for third countries, especially in Asia, to ensure prevention and screening at source.
There are thus good reasons for the EU Member States to coordinate the measures adopted and the political decisions taken.
We have therefore chosen to vote in favour of the resolution as a whole.
We question a number of individual points in the report, such as that relating to the Commission’s need to prepare a comprehensive communication strategy in conjunction with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC).
Quite a few of the amendments lose sight of this and instead emphasise the EU’s international role.
We are critical of the fact that the European Parliament is in this way exploiting an important political issue in order to strengthen the EU and its international political role. &#160;&#160; . – Of the proposed measures for the Member States, some are right and others are pure propaganda, such as the provision of vaccines and medicinal products.
A few years ago, two major deadly epidemics were looming, that of the mysterious SARS virus, which has meanwhile disappeared out of the public eye, and a possible combination of bird flu with human flu variants.
The European Union and its Member States were then hardly prepared for a great danger that could have cost millions of lives in a short space of time.
Ethical, environmental and health aspects must also be taken on board.
We ultimately abstained on the resolution, on account of its contradictory aspects in relation to our positions of principle. &#160;&#160; .The practices of the European Patent Office are once again subject to debate before this Assembly.
Today, in a far more serious way which affects the foundations of our moral principles and the essence of our humanity, biotechnology is the talking point.
This legislation has to be rapidly revised.
The European Union cannot allow itself to fall behind its international partners and hold a number of areas for research in abeyance.
Their only motive was to denounce cloning - including therapeutic cloning - and to demand that the EU cut off all funding for this research.
A few of us have set about replying to this letter, and a good 127 Members have made it clear to Mr&#160;Barroso that it is unthinkable for us to exclude Europe from a crucial area of research. 26&#160;October 2005 and the third act carried out by these Groups: holding this resolution hostage.
By means of this obscurantist vote, 338 Members have decided not to give science any chance whatsoever.
This subject area is very complex technologically and morally, and while I have misgivings about some aspects of the resolution I believe that it does go some way to striking a balance between the need for research which could be hugely beneficial, and on the other hand the potential damage that this research could do to human life.
I therefore broadly support the compromise that Parliament has reached today, but this technology will need to be kept under constant review. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Klamt report, which, we, I am sad to say, approved a moment ago, can best be described as a sort of naïve wish-list, and as a description of ideological, left-wing concepts that are totally unrelated to the real world.
The integration policy so far adopted in most, if not all, Member States, has largely failed.
It is therefore high time that we, in our ivory towers, started to realise this. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must express my solidarity with Mrs&#160;Klamt, in view of the left’s unsuccessful attempt to sabotage the report in committee.
For immigration to be a source of prosperity and development, rather than instability, there have to be stringent procedures and criteria.
That is why my group, the National Alliance or the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, abstained from voting on this report. &#160;&#160; .I abstained on Article 6 of the Klamt report on a Community approach for managing economic migration because I believe that, although it is acceptable to allow Europeans and non-Europeans to vote in local elections, it is much less so to allow non-Europeans to vote in European elections.
During local elections, all citizens who have lived in a European country for a given period of time – for example five years, like in Belgium – have to be able to voice their opinions on their living conditions, the way in which their towns are developed, their children’s education and so on.
I should also like to see – again, like in Belgium – the right to vote granted to non-Europeans insofar as they make a solemn commitment to abide by what is laid down in the Constitution and in the laws of their host countries. &#160;&#160; The own-initiative report is part of the process of setting up a European immigration policy in which one and the same procedure shall apply in all the Member States.
For example, it calls on the Commission to ensure the inclusion of all provisions of the ‘International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families’ adopted by the UN General Assembly on 18 December 1990, and urges all Member States to ratify this Convention.
The report contains some contradictory points, however, in the context of a migration policy that encourages the exploitation of human resources, especially the best qualified workers, from third countries.
We also regret the rejection of proposals tabled by our Group, expressing our opposition to ‘temporary detention centres’ and to other measures denying immigrants their freedom, condemning the setting up of ‘temporary detention centres’ in third countries and condemning the political failure of the ‘quotas’, which have exacerbated illegal immigration and the precarious work status of these workers. &#160;&#160; .This report, which is meant to be a response to the European Commission’s Green Paper on economic migration, is nothing but a long litany of dangerous and suicidal aberrations for the nations and peoples of Europe.
Finally, the icing on the cake is that this report refuses to give priority to citizens of the European Union before turning to third-country nationals.
No national government whatsoever could present such a catalogue of measures without being sent to the opposition benches at the next election.
The European Parliament would be making a fool of itself and discrediting itself if it were to adopt such a report, which, if adopted, would draw to our borders millions of men and women enticed by the land of opportunity promised by our sorcerer’s apprentices. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to call on the Commission to provide the House with an explanation, but the Commission is unfortunately absent.
The reason for this demand is Commissioner McCreevy’s statement in the course of yesterday evening’s debate on the patentability of human cloning, a statement that finds no support in law.
The Commission’s interpretation of this point is quite simply wrong and contradicts the protocol note of the Council of Ministers handed down by the Council when the directive was adopted.
In Article 35 of that protocol note, it is stated quite clearly that it is not only reproductive cloning that is barred from being patented.
They have come to Strasbourg for the eighth meeting of the European Union-Ukraine Parliamentary Cooperation Committee which will be held today and tomorrow.
I wish you and the whole of the European Union-Ukraine Parliamentary Cooperation Committee a very fruitful meeting. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the Council and Commission statements on the preparation for the next informal European Council.
Thank you, Mr Blair.
If we should ever feel lacking in confidence about Europe and its values, then the interest of people such as our Ukrainian friends should tell us that the values of Europe are strong and are much envied by so much of the rest of the world.
My purpose in coming here today is to report back on what we intend over these coming weeks to be the basis of the UK Presidency.
However, I shall be here I am pleased to say for at least an hour and a half to hear both your comments and to answer some of those questions myself.
I would also like to explain at the very outset how we want to take forward the Presidency over these coming weeks.
On 23 June in Brussels, we set out an essential vision of how we should combat the challenge of globalisation.
I think it is agreed generally in Europe that we need to get Europe moving and we need to get it moving in the right direction.
We now have an opportunity, both in the informal summit, which is tomorrow, and then in the formal summit in December, to set out that direction and put in place the specific policies to match it.
So, over these two summits, our idea is first to agree on the right direction for Europe economically, then, secondly, to set out some new priority areas for European action and then, thirdly, on the basis and in the context of that, to get a budget deal in December at the formal Council.
This is what I want to come out of this informal summit.
The first thing is that I want to get that informal summit to agree effectively on the Commission paper presented by President Barroso and the European Commission.
That Commission paper is an analysis of the challenge of globalisation and how we meet it, both as Member States and as the European Union.
It shows how we must make our labour markets less restrictive, how we have to make sure, in the field of research and development, innovation and other areas, that we catch up with the best practice in the world.
The first thing we want to do at the informal summit is to get that paper agreed and make that the basis for the discussion we then have about Europe, its social model and its economic future.
I should like to mention some of those.
In respect of these areas of future work, we are also, as the Presidency, publishing some papers today from academics within the European Union on certain aspects of the challenge we face in each of those areas.
Those will be published and available to Members of Parliament and people attending the summit tomorrow.
We need to make sure that more of the European budget is spent on those priority areas, because those are the future areas for the European economy.
We also need to coordinate better the way in which we work in these areas.
So, one major area for future priority work is research and development.
The second area is energy and energy policy.
For far too long we have been in the situation where, in a haphazard and random way, energy needs and energy priorities are simply determined by each country according to its needs, but without any sense of the collective power that we could have in Europe, if we were prepared to pool our energy and our resources.
That policy should focus not on new regulatory barriers, but rather on obtaining a genuinely open energy market.
Secondly, we, like other major countries in the world, should be prepared to enter into dialogue at European level with key suppliers of energy, to use our collective weight to make our voice heard.
Thirdly, we need to be developing clean technologies, energy efficiency and coming to some common views at least about the possibilities and perspectives on issues related to areas such as nuclear power.
These are areas we need to work on in future.
China and India are developing their university sector in an extraordinary way.
Our proposal is that we task the Commission specifically to report back to the European Council next year on the challenge facing European universities, how we compete with the United States, how we get more public-private partnership into sustaining them and more graduate schools linking business and the academic world across the European Union.
We need both to make sure that we have the proper controls on illegal immigration at the same time as recognising that controlled migration can actually bring a benefit to our European economies.
This would be sensible if we are looking at how we can modernise the European economy.
The final area of priority work concerns what was called by the European Commission the globalisation fund.
The important thing about the globalisation fund is that it should not be a fund that protects companies that need to restructure, or failing companies, or one that bails out companies that cannot succeed.
What it should do, however, is protect and help people in circumstances where restructuring has made them redundant or left them facing difficulties within the labour market.
Such a fund, if it is done in the proper way, will help rather than hinder us in meeting the challenge of globalisation.
What we want to propose at the informal Council tomorrow is that we should agree the basic direction in the Commission paper and then, in the six areas of work I have just outlined, that we should set out how we can make progress in each of those areas in order to enhance the competitiveness of the European Union and also its social solidarity in helping people adjust to the challenge of globalisation.
In addition, tomorrow, arising out of the special Council that we had on 13&#160;July, we want to propose measures for a counter-terrorism strategy in order to get agreement to those measures at the December Council.
Those should focus on things like the radicalisation of people inside the European Union, the protection of our infrastructure and, in particular, how we exchange information and protection more effectively, how we retain that, how we get cooperation between the different security and police services inside the European Union in order to protect our people better and, as the Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, said to you when he was here in the European Parliament, we are happy to deal with this under the first pillar, so that it can be part of the codecision-making process.
If we can agree that tomorrow, then I believe that we have the beginnings, at least, of the right context in which we can get a financing deal.
In respect of the services directive, we know the position taken by the European Parliament; I still, however, hope that it is possible to get political agreement on the right way forward, because – and I say this in all sincerity – the services directive is a necessary part of completing the single market and it is important for Europe.
I want to make it quite clear and I know from conversations I have had with Members from the accession countries that for all of us the European budget is important.
As we know in Britain, there are major issues that arise in connection with it.
If we are to get a budget agreement – and I know that people want it in the European Parliament and they want it in the European Council, too – we will be in a better position to do so if we have agreed an economic direction and new priorities for work, and if those can then influence the outcome of that budget debate.
That budget debate has to make a start in this financing deal, in reordering the priorities, and it has to be able – through the review process – to give us a forward perspective of a more rational way to spend the European budget in today’s world.
If we want our economy to meet the future challenges, at some point we have got to make sure that the budget is aligned with the economic priorities of our citizens and of our business and of our workforce.
Finally, on external relations, in respect of climate change you will know that we had successful agreements with China and India, as well as Russia, on the issue of how to take forward a proper dialogue on climate change.
That could be an important signal for the future.
Europe can be proud of what we have done in respect of development, but the truth is we need to do more.
We also, incidentally, for these reasons hope to secure a successful outcome to the WTO negotiations in Hong Kong.
Of course, we have had the accession negotiations with Turkey and Croatia opening.
Our aim therefore is to get the following things done: agreement on a new economic direction; new priorities for European work in areas like research and development, energy, universities, migration, demography and so on; and a future financing deal that is fair, begins to address those priorities and gives the future prospect of being able substantially to reorder the European budget.
We also want a set of conclusions in the area of justice and home affairs that allows us to combat terrorism and illegal immigration, whilst taking the benefits of proper managed migration.
We want to get clear conclusions in December on a development strategy for Europe in respect of Africa and to make sure that we keep to a strong process of change in order to combat greenhouse gas emissions and the environmental challenge we face.
We came to the point a few months ago where, as a result of the ‘no’ votes in the referendums, there was a sense that Europe was in paralysis.
If we want to get Europe moving again and in the correct direction, then we have to agree both what that direction is and the specific measures to get us there.
If we are able, in the course of these next few weeks, to offer at least some explanation and answers to our citizens on how we meet the challenge of globalisation, how we provide greater security in an era of global terrorism and mass migration, and how we can have a foreign policy that uses Europe’s collective weight for the benefit of the citizens of Europe, then we will at least have made a start on putting Europe back together again, on the right track and moving forward.
I came here today in order to report back both on what we had done and what we intend to do over the next few weeks.
If I may end on this point, it is important that we make sure that, in addressing these challenges, the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council work together and work together closely.
That is our desire.
I hope that it will not only be a debate, but also – as the President of the Council, Mr&#160;Blair, has just said – an opportunity to make decisions about the path to follow in the future.
I will just point out that, in addition to a document on the economic and social challenges linked to globalisation, the Commission has also approved an initiative aimed at restarting negotiations on the financial perspectives and has contributed to a political agreement that we consider to be necessary and urgent.
I should like to thank you for the support you have given to the document prepared by the Commission and I want to reaffirm in this Chamber, before you and Mr&#160;Blair, that we want to help find a solution to the budget issue, because if we truly want to show that Europe is moving forward, then we need to have a decision on the financial perspectives.
In Europe, as we know, there have historically been high levels of prosperity, social cohesion and environmental protection, and a high quality of life, compared with other regions in the world.
However, it is also true that there is a lack of social justice.
The gap between rich and poor is too great.
The truth is that this situation is in danger of worsening in the face of the simultaneous challenges of an ageing population and of globalisation.
If we want to retain our European values, then we have to modernise our policies.
They are mistaken, because an enlarged Europe – the Europe of 25, and more than that in the future – has to rely on a structure of social cohesion and political coherence, both internally and towards the outside world, if we want to support this project.
We must never take for granted our great European project, but we must fight each day to strengthen it.
On the other hand, there is the danger arising from those who believe that it is possible to make Europe a power at the same time as there are 25 micro markets for energy and 25 micro markets for services.
If we want to make Europe a genuine power, then we have to fully implement the internal market.
Our competitiveness in the globalised world depends on our doing so.
I believe that the European Union has a central role to play in pushing forward these ambitious reforms and the modernisation of our social systems.
We cannot deliver the future European Union budget without the instruments, along with multilateral surveillance, shared experience, and all the mechanisms that we have at our disposal.
Let us be frank: even the biggest Member States in our Community do not have the leverage to manage globalisation or to speak exactly on the same footing with other global powers.
Our deep integration, our common policies and our shared values give us an added strength that no individual Member State can claim.
That is why, in order to tackle poverty around the world, to project European values worldwide and to negotiate in the interests of our Member States, it is better to reaffirm clearly that we need a strong European dimension.
Let me underline some of those aspects.
As Prime Minister Blair said – and it is precisely the original idea of the Commission as well – the purpose of this fund is not to protect firms that are not competitive or not economically viable, but to help people.
At the same time as we are in favour of opening our economies, we should show that we also care about people.
We have also identified some areas where the partnership between the Commission and the Member States can be further explored and strengthened – areas which primarily fall within the Member States’ domain, but where the Commission can play a major role, either as an honest broker, a catalyst or as a focal point of benchmarking, of mutual surveillance, of collective action.
For instance, as the Prime Minster said, and as we have said in our paper, we are in favour of a common approach at European level on energy.
I believe we can do much more in that area, bringing together the fields of environment, agriculture, research and the funds we already have at our disposal.
Another area is research and development, and we hope to get the funding necessary for that to have some action at European level because we need that dimension.
Finally, the Commission is ready to present to the European Council a roadmap setting out the path to a modern Europe capable of delivering economic prosperity and social justice.
So my message to the summit will be clear: if we want to keep our European values, we must modernise our policies, and it is better if we do that together.
We should call for a personal commitment from all European Union leaders.
I know change is never easy, but let me tell you: inaction is much worse and much more costly.
I think that Hampton Court should also provide a positive message to our citizens on the role Europe can play in the world in terms of security and the projection of our values, be it in terms of development aid or the management of globalisation.
It is important that we also define this new role of Europe in the world.
I hope that our discussions tomorrow will allow a consensus to emerge on the scale and urgency of the challenges we face and the need to move ahead.
I think this consensus, this common vision, is necessary.
This new consensus is necessary to reconnect Europe with its citizens and also to prepare the ground for further progress in our European project.
This consensus and this sense of urgency are necessary to reach agreement on the budget and the Financial Perspective, hopefully, by the end of this year.
It is difficult, but it is possible and it is necessary.
The task of responsible politicians is to make possible what is necessary.
We have been working very closely and very intensively with the UK Presidency.
It is tomorrow, then, that the Council of Heads of State and of Government meet, and that gets the sequence of events right: first, the European Parliament in Strasbourg and then Hampton Court Palace on the outskirts of London.
We wish you success, Mr President of the European Council, in re-establishing trust among the 25 Heads of State or Government.
Your presence here today does indeed help to build trust, for all three European institutions are present.
It ought, in future, to be taken as read that the President of the European Parliament should take part in all the meetings of the European Council.
Europe may well not be the solution to all the great problems, but we will be able to solve none of them without the concerted action of Europeans in the European Union.
This morning, a colleague told me that the Commission, which already works very well with the WTO, could well become even more involved in it in terms of its presence on its committees.
I cannot pass judgment on that, but that is what I have been told.
I ask you, Prime Minister – not in your capacity as Prime Minister but as President-in-Office of the European Council – whatever you decide tomorrow, not to take any formal decisions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council mentioned in his speech that discussions at Hampton Court tomorrow will touch on the combating of terrorism, and so I want to start by saying something about 7 July.
The 7 July attacks in London were attacks on European civil society.
The Labour government’s response, with an appropriate combination of rigour in public security and dialogue with the people, was the right one.
When, though, tomorrow, you discuss the European social model, you and the Heads of State or Government will be discussing a social model that has been developed progressively in Europe over a period of 50 years since the end of the Second World War.
At the heart of this development was the consistent coupling together, for the first time in economic history, of economic and technical advances with social progress.
All economic and social growth went hand in hand with more social rights and greater social stability.
You are right to say, Mr President, that the European internal market and its development present us with a great opportunity.
The market produces many things, but solidarity is not one of them; that we have to create for ourselves, and it is above all a task for the states.
We, here in the European Parliament, must help them to do that.
Yet, six months on, as your reception here has demonstrated, many cannot, or will not, think beyond the terms of Liberal Europe versus Social Europe.
It harbingers huge opportunities for wealth creation and intercultural exchange, but also cross-border challenges like migration, climate change and internationally organised crime.
If the European Union is to prosper in a global community, we must combine reform of expensive social models with a new determination to build a single market for goods, services, capital and labour.
It is not an economic and social Shangri-La, sheltered from all the pressures of the world, but it caters for a common response to a common challenge.
But, as my colleague Bernard Lehideux pointed out last week, a free market economy and social solidarity can go hand in hand.
Indeed, if economic Liberalism is complemented by Social Liberalism, we can offer our citizens the security, prosperity and opportunity they expect.
President-in-Office, I do not envy your task at Hampton Court.
You must convince the doubters that under your leadership Europe can live up to the high expectations you set for us.
These skills of yours do not, however, make up for the fact that the great Summit on reviving the European social dimension now seems to have been downgraded to an amicable chat among friends on the most disparate subjects, particularly economic reform and competitiveness.
Conversely, you still do not want to discuss the common energy policy, which is already contained in the Constitution, although its only use now seems to be to revive the old nuclear debate.
I think you could have chosen something better to bring Europe closer to the people.
I believe that in any case, even if you are trying to get a political agreement in December, you might have to wait a bit before claiming victory since we do not vote until January.
That would help us to achieve a real synergy between the strategic economic benefits and the environmental challenges posed by globalisation.
What could be more Blair-like, in actual fact, than the action plan of the Lisbon Agenda, revised in 2005?
Yet the fact is that, in the United Kingdom, unlike in other Member States, the majority of these reforms have already been, or are due to be, carried out in full.
It therefore seemed a good idea to my group, before the extraordinary meeting at Hampton Court takes place, to discover how this pilot experiment carried out by a 21st century liberal Europe is assessed by those it affects most – the British themselves.
Our speakers also told us that there is a enormous lack of job security, particularly for women, three-fifths of whom work part-time in underpaid jobs with no prospects, while the men suffer some of the longest working hours in Europe.
The extent of poverty was another aspect of the situation highlighted by our British friends.
In addition to a large number of unemployed and working poor, one female pensioner in four lives in poverty in the United Kingdom.
Child poverty has even reached the staggering figure of 54% in inner city London.
On the other hand, a wonderful breath of fresh air of humanity came to us from our meeting with the trade unionists who organised an illegal solidarity strike this summer at British Airways involving the 800 male and female immigrant employees of the US sub-contractor Gate Gourmet, all of whom had just been made redundant so that their jobs might be filled by other, less costly, employees.
When people finally sit up and take note of this obvious fact, then, and only then, will Europe fare better. &#160;&#160; . – Mr Blair, in your speech here in June I could scarcely believe what I was hearing.
I would also like to thank the President of the Commission for being with us.
Having listened to some of the contributions from both the Prime Minister and some of my colleagues as presidents of groups, the situation could be summed up in words such as ‘meeting the challenge of globalisation’ and ‘exploiting the opportunities that it brings’.
The solidarity in question is to ensure that there is protection not only of the social model, as we see it, with the basic tenets of what that social model should contain, but also that there is solidarity with our fellow Member States and those who require the most income now and the most transfer of wealth to assist them in the redevelopment and upgrading of their infrastructure, systems and markets.
But let us not overturn an agreement on the common agricultural policy that was made in 2002.
Let us ensure that we do not drive against one section of society for the so-called benefit of other sections of society.
To paraphrase George Bernard Shaw: some men see things as they are and wonder why; I dream things as they should be and say, why not? &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the first British Conservative to speak today, I should like to welcome the Prime Minister to Strasbourg.
Like your predecessors, John Major and Margaret Thatcher, you came to power determined to set aside the legacy of British ambivalence towards the EU.
You were welcomed in 1997 by European leaders, who believed that you were the man, finally, to bring Britain into the heart of Europe.
Yet you never dared to face down the hostility of the British people towards the euro and now you never will.
Last June you made a very successful speech in this Chamber, yet your Presidency has run into the sand.
The Presidency and the European Commission have been working carefully on the Commission paper that is the subject of our meeting tomorrow.
In relation to what Mr Poettering was saying, I agree entirely with the point on the WTO; it is very important, and everyone understands we cannot get immediate change fundamentally to the common agricultural policy, but it is important we get a forward perspective of change.
In respect of the fund, I think we are in agreement: if this fund is about helping people cope with the consequences of globalisation, that is a good thing.
Secondly, in relation to what Mr Schulz was saying: first of all, can I thank you very much for those words about 7&#160;July and the terrorist attacks in the UK.
Over these past few years, we have gone from a position where Boeing was literally completely dominant in the market to a situation where Airbus today is a European venture of which we can be proud and which is competing with the very best anywhere in the world.
If we are able to do that, and if we are able to meet the scale of the challenge in the way I have suggested, I think, in other areas, too, we can develop world-beating companies across Europe.
The New Deal for the Unemployed is the biggest programme of any country in Europe to tackle unemployment.
We have lifted 700&#160;000 children out of poverty and two million pensioners out of acute hardship, and our public services have meant that we have the best school results, and falling hospital waiting lists, for the first time in 20 years.
However, I have to say to you that it has always been my experience in politics that at a certain point there are parts of the Left that join forces with the Right to decry modern progressive governments.
Mr Farage, you talked about Commissioner Verheugen’s agenda for getting rid of redundant legislation and, as far as I can make out, you actually applauded what he was doing but thought that he had used the wrong terminology.
But Europe should only regulate where it is necessary and Europe should not interfere in areas where it is unnecessary.
Mr Crowley, I heard what you said on the common agricultural policy.
Of course we are not saying we can change the whole system overnight; what we are saying is that we should in the future have a different perspective for reform.
There is a responsibility also on this body, on Parliament, and our common responsibility is this: at the present time, the real danger that we face in Europe is that our citizens and our people are increasingly perceiving globalisation as a threat.
It poses a huge competitive challenge, but it also poses a huge competitive opportunity for us because those countries are going to need financial services; those countries are going to need technology; those countries are going to be importing goods as well as exporting goods.
We have to have the confidence in the European Union to overcome that competitive challenge.
It can only be a true social dimension if it enhances the prosperity, the living standards and economic future of our people.
We can, for example in areas such as work/life balance and the social security systems, find new and better ways of supporting people.
And change, after all, is what the European Union has always been about.
It was change that led to the European Union.
Of course, we can make this competitive challenge work for us.
We, in Europe, who have managed to overcome war and disease, who have created 50 years of prosperity – are we really incapable of modernising our social model in the way that we want?
And we can do it if we listen to our people.
What our people are saying to us today is something very simple about Europe.
We are worried about globalisation, we are worried about security and terrorism, we are worried about the threat to our environment’.
Let Europe be relevant on these issues.
That is what I say and that is what we shall do. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am sorry that the Prime Minister has had to go.
But, speaking, as I do, for the real and responsible Conservative delegation of MEPs who believe in constructive engagement in this House and in Europe, I want to thank the Presidency for the Prime Minister’s statement.
He gave us a shopping list in June, but he has not informed us today of the safe delivery of the items on the list.
Instead, he has produced another shopping list for us, merit worthy though it may be, and I want to know – and I am sure his minister will answer this – when delivery will take place.
A common energy policy was referred to by the Prime&#160;Minister.
Others across the political spectrum have lined up to express disappointment with the lack of progress.
I welcome the agreement on proceeding with care in accession negotiations with Turkey, and it is important that we send a signal to the people of that country, but the rest of the agenda seems to be stuck in a rut.
We wait for some real results. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Barroso, Mrs&#160;Wallström, Mr&#160;Blair, ladies and gentlemen, many Europeans are concerned not only about the path taken by globalisation, as Mr&#160;Blair said, but also about the path taken by European policies.
The Hampton Court summit must respond to these concerns; it must send a clear signal that the European people are determined to defend their social model and therefore to stop setting it in opposition to competitiveness.
No, contrary to what the Prime Minister claimed before this Parliament in Brussels four months ago, it is not the European social model that is responsible for the 20&#160;million unemployed in Europe, it is the weak growth in the large countries in the Eurozone, the lack of coordination between the budgetary and monetary policies, which do not support internal demand and investment, and the lack of investment in research and innovation.
On this latter point, I see that we are in agreement.
Indeed, it is not by destroying the social model that we will restore the competitiveness of our economies and create confidence in Europe, but rather by placing the emphasis on Europe’s strengths, on the quality of its infrastructure, including the communication and energy infrastructure, as you mentioned, on the skills of the workforce, on better coordination between research centres and universities, on a common industrial policy in the sectors of the future.
That is why we would prefer to emulate the policies pursued by the Nordic countries: more investment in research, more rights to life-long training, maintenance of a high level of solidarity and redistribution, and high-quality public services.
Their success shows that there is, in terms of competitiveness, an alternative to the destruction of collective protection systems and a reduction in the level of solidarity.
Reform and modernisation of our social systems will only be accepted and understood by the citizens if they bring new protection, new opportunities and new weapons for all to face competition, change and globalisation.
If reform and modernisation mean aligning our social systems and our economies with the harshest market economies, this will contribute neither to the confidence of the citizens nor to support for the reforms.
That is why it is vital to negotiate them with the social partners, and to relaunch the social dialogue, with the aims of harmonising rights to the highest level and ruling out social dumping between Member States, and that is why we are in favour of an internal market in services, but against the Bolkestein directive, which is aimed less at an internal market in services than at a weakening of the social model and of services of general interest.
Finally, there will be no dynamic Europe without an ambitious financial perspective.
It is vital to reach an agreement within the Council without further delay, particularly for the Member States, and we are delighted at the announcement of an agreement on a number of directives adopted by Parliament at first reading and now blocked: the Working Time Directive - but we hope that this agreement takes the same direction as the European Parliament’s vote at first reading, in other words abolishes the opt-out, and I am sure you will tell us if this is the case – the Temporary Agency Workers Directive, the revision of the European Work Councils Directive to increase employees’ rights when faced with restructuring, and, finally, the drafting of a framework directive on services of general interest.
We are waiting for you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I regret that Prime Minister Blair has seen fit to go and spin to journalists rather than listen to this whole debate.
When the Prime Minister spoke to us in Brussels in June, he said that the UK Presidency wanted to resolve difficulties with the services directive, the working time directive, and to take forward a budget deal.
Still no budget for 2007 and it is not only in the accession states that this is a major concern.
If you offer the whole of the British rebate, you will not get a budget compromise by December.
For them, you are too modern.
For us, you are not modern enough.
What we miss hearing is a declaration on your part that the Constitution is dead and buried and a statement calling on us to start afresh and to allow supporters and opponents of the Constitution to draw up a common discussion paper.
We should then directly elect a new Convention which would draw up either one or two proposals which would then be voted on in referenda in all the countries simultaneously.
In that way, the voters would decide our common future, and we should obtain that distribution of power between Member States and the EU that the voters want to see.
You could then use your last months as EU President to guarantee transparency in Council meetings and to ensure that elected representatives have access, upon demand, to all the documents from the 300 secret working parties in the Council of Ministers which adopt 85% of all legislation behind closed doors.
All the elected representatives put their names to this, as did 23 out of 28 governments, but not Great Britain’s, even though Peter Hain would have liked to have appended his signature.
Only a simple majority is required to change the Rules of Procedure in the Council so that, in the future, everything is open unless a qualified majority decides on an exemption.
To conclude, Mr&#160;Blair was unconvincing on the European social model and, if he had not snubbed Parliament a little by leaving … &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Alexander knows that I know that he is not very good at answering questions.
EUR&#160;600&#160;billion – according to the Court of Auditors itself – has been unaccounted for since the UK joined, and that is five times the contribution that we have made over that same period.
On Mr Blair’s desk in Downing Street, there is a letter recommending that the UK Government set a time limit to complete the basic reform of the EU’s accounting procedures so that they comply fully with international financial reporting standards.
Meanwhile, the UK’s GBP&#160;1.25&#160;million an hour should be diverted into an escrow account. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, having, a few days ago, posted the President of the Council as missing, I wanted to say ‘Welcome back!’, but there he is, gone again.
I hope we will not have to wait until December for him to return to the European stage.
I urge you to give the European Union the power to do what you demand of it; to give just two examples, we are not responsible for the universities, nor for national energy policies, yet these are things that you demand that we deal with.
Take it from us: the Böge Report is evidence of the lack of agreement with Parliament on the Financial Perspective, because we want to be able to do the things we are obliged to do.
As we see it, the social market economy is the European social model, and the period of reflection on the Constitution begins now rather than on 30 June.
You know that this will have repercussions for the policy of economic growth, for solidarity with the new Member States, for investment in innovatory policies and for the strengthening of social justice and competitiveness within the context of globalisation.
In June, this Parliament carried out its duty as budgetary authority.
I would like to end by saying: I agree absolutely that Europe is moving in the right direction.
The bodywork is the Constitution, the engine is the euro and the petrol is the budget. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Europe has broken down.
Mr&#160;President, you will not resolve this crisis without reaching agreement on the budget of the EU.
You will not resolve this crisis without the prospect of strong, democratic institutions.
Above all, you will not resolve this crisis by giving the impression that Europe can be limited to economic agreements or to one large market.
I also hope that the message has got through to the Presidency that there are many in this Parliament who believe that services of general interest – important though they are for social cohesion and social mobility – do not belong in the scope of that Directive.
How, then, is the Presidency linking issues on climate change to other issues, for example within the Lisbon Agenda, promoting, I suppose, things like a really radical training strategy in order that our workforce can cope with climate change?
Lastly, what action will the Presidency be taking in terms of globalisation to drive standards up on an international level in the labour and environmental spheres? &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I believe that the summit on globalisation organised by the British Presidency, which will bring together the Heads of State or Government of the EU Member States, is an extremely valuable initiative.
Globalisation is a new form of political, economic and cultural colonialism imposed by rich countries upon poor and less-developed countries.
The European Commission has proposed that a special fund be set up to combat the effects of globalisation.
It is to be hoped that tomorrow’s summit will be one of the factors that enable the EU Member States to launch a long-term policy of measures to prevent the undesirable effects of globalisation. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Alexander, there can be no doubt that the European Union is in urgent need of honest debate, such as that which will take place at Hampton Court, and I believe that this summit was a good British idea.
I should like to make two points in response to the questions raised in the letter sent by Prime Minister&#160;Blair to his guests.
In order to create more jobs and growth in Europe, all we need to do is to deliver on the prosaic promises we made 50&#160;years ago.
The answer to this question is a resounding yes, but our achievements will depend on the extent to which we believe in the European project.
This belief is inextricably linked to the existence of an open labour and services market to which everyone has equal access, and to the old Member States demonstrating solidarity with the new EU Member States in budgetary terms.
Reluctance to complete the common market or to adopt a budget based on solidarity will undermine belief in the European project in those countries where such belief is currently strongest, for example in countries such as Poland.
What we need, therefore, is the simple confirmation that our continent is not an immigration area, that our Member States today are already being affected by enormous problems as a result of the presence on our territory of millions of immigrants who cannot be assimilated.
We should respect the will of our citizens and offer Turkey a privileged partnership instead of opening accession negotiations with a country that cannot, unfortunately, be called European in any sense whatever.
I, however, would like to welcome much of the progress made by the Presidency, particularly its involvement with Parliament and the constant attention by ministers to the wishes of Parliament.
I welcome the progress that has been made on justice and home affairs and the very personal commitment by the British Home Secretary to involving Parliament on data retention and making this a first-pillar issue, which is a huge step forward for relations between the Council and Parliament.
I welcome the progress made on Africa; the progress made on better regulation, particularly continuing the six-Presidency programme in relation to that, and the first commitment of the Presidency to work with the European Commission.
I welcome the progress on enlargement, particularly opening negotiations with Turkey.
Clearly, I welcome what the President-in-Office has said today, particularly about energy policy because, as the acting President will recall, it was something I made reference to at the Labour Party conference.
It is our failure to get the single market fully completed that is important, as well as transport infrastructure and energy infrastructure.
Member States will be made to realise Europe will only progress if they do what they promised to do. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I have to admit that Prime Minister&#160;Blair’s speeches have a certain seductive appeal.
Firstly, because it was a highly political speech and we need political speeches in the European Parliament, because they make a change from our routine and because at the same time they undoubtedly have the capacity for renewal and regeneration, which is something I believe we must not underestimate.
We could go on to say many things but we must not in any way undervalue or play down the importance of Mr Blair’s speech this afternoon, nor the speech he made on 23 June of this same year.
Having said that, what we need is for that list of problems not just to be accepted by Mr Blair, but also by the Council that will take place this weekend in the United Kingdom.
There is an intermediate stage: to define the European Union’s role in the fight against terrorism, in immigration and in universities.
Finally, it is my hope that this excellent speech, which I do not undervalue, will not end in just one more frustration at the end of this six-month Presidency of the European Council. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use the minute I have been given to send some direct messages to the British Presidency, beginning with the image used by Mrs Dührkop.
Finally, in the fight against terrorism, there has been a change of position since 7 July; Minister Clarke said here that if the Constitution were to move it to the first pillar that would be an important step.
I therefore believe that the British Presidency has a great opportunity to present proposals aimed at making these objectives a reality. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the contents of Mr&#160;Blair’s speech about tomorrow’s summit, but I would ask the Council to pay particular attention to one key issue, already central to both Mr&#160;Blair’s and Mr&#160;Barroso’s speeches: the extent to which the Union’s economy will suffer because of our society’s ageing population.
The birth rate of 1.5 children per couple is well below the natural replacement level of two children for two parents.
The working population in 2020 will be 20.7% less than in 1980, which is the equivalent of 20 million fewer workers.
The population of Europe is growing older: in 2020 there will be 19.1% more elderly people than in 1980.
If they set out, however, without a strategic plan based on the values on which our society is founded, then all their efforts will be in vain.
Let us do so in a way that does not destroy it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the fight against organised crime and terrorism is one of your Presidency’s main preoccupations.
When the UK’s priorities were presented in June, I reminded you that our fellow citizens want a protective, generous Europe of solidarity and that, as a consequence, the delicate balance between freedom and security must be maintained.
I welcome the efforts of your Presidency to promote codecision with Parliament.
We have risen to the challenge and we are working towards an agreement at first reading.
However, we are keeping a close eye on a number of points that are very important to us, in particular the protection of data in this directive.
Only strict access rules and criminal penalties will enable us to guarantee that the retention of data does not have a detrimental effect on the liberty of our fellow citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was one of those who appreciated the Presidency’s speech, but I am afraid I was neither seduced nor convinced.
Two-thirds of the way through this invisible Presidency, we are still where we were in June.
Hopes rose in the new Member States.
The 2004 enlargement needs to be equipped with the financial tools to bridge the gap and to sustain social and economic cohesion, based on the principle of solidarity.
You intend to discuss in Hampton Court whether the Union is equipped with the proper financial instruments.
Vision without real content is an illusion, and not much use to our citizens.
I very much agree with the British Prime Minister’s assessment that the structure of the European budget is outdated and no longer reflects the modern needs of the European Union.
I am pleased that, at tomorrow’s informal meeting, the UK presidency will propose some strategic changes in this direction.
However, as a representative of the new countries, including Slovenia, I feel it is my duty, to emphasise that attempts to formulate new priority tasks in the budget should not be used as an excuse for postponing the adoption of the Financial Perspective in December.
These are issues that go to the very heart of how Europe faces up to globalisation and, as our Prime Minister concluded, both the threats posed by globalisation and, just as significantly, the opportunities.
The United Kingdom Presidency, be clear, is keen to find a consensus on that future direction of Europe and to see that the views expressed here today by Members of this House are reflected in proposals in this area.
I should also like to thank President Barroso for his contribution to the discussion.
The substance of his input, together with the Commission paper to which he referred – the paper on European values in a globalised world – are testament to the extent to which Member States and the Commission share a common vision and, indeed, a common sense of urgency with regard to the important issues facing us today.
I would ask Parliament’s understanding if I do not respond to every specific point raised during the course of this long but important debate.
With the greatest of respect, I fear that Mr Kirkhope’s remarks reflect the risks of writing a speech in reply to a speech that you have not yet heard, in the sense that he was questioning the commitment of the Presidency in terms of the specifics that would be taken forward.
Mrs Koch-Mehrin, who appears to have left her place in the Chamber, talked of the importance of other priorities alongside R[amp]D and in particular the issue of transparency, which has been raised both within this Chamber and in a number of other fora involving our Prime Minister today.
Again, I would report to this House that there was a formal discussion amongst the Permanent Representatives of the issue of transparency on 19 October.
However, the discussions have already begun, as was shown by the debate held at COREPER on 19 October.
I will merely point out that the prospect of Turkish accession has been held out to the Turkish people for 42 years.
It ill behoves anybody in this Chamber, whether they are for or against Turkish accession, to undermine the historical significance of what was achieved back in Luxembourg.
In reply to Mr Bonde, I hope that I have addressed his point about transparency already.
In relation to Ms&#160;Angelilli’s point, questioning whether there is enough commitment to seek a deal on future financing, I would simply reiterate the points that our own Prime Minister made earlier in our discussions today, making it clear that we believe both that it is necessary to have the discussion on the future of Europe at Hampton Court tomorrow, and that this discussion is an essential prerequisite for the progress that we are determined to try and make in relation to future financing.
Mr Mote, who appears to have left the Chamber – perhaps that was a reflection on how I have sought to answer his questions in the past – raised the very specific question of corruption.
The Presidency is working with the Commission and other Member States on the Commission’s paper ‘Roadmap towards a positive statement of assurance’, a package of measures to reform the Commission’s accounting system, making it easier for the Court of Auditors to give the accounts a clean bill of health.
Mr Karas sought an ‘open and public debate’.
I would argue that what we saw today in Parliament was exactly that: a frank debate on the importance of a range of issues ahead of the Hampton Court meeting.
Again, I would simply recollect a previous British Presidency in 1992, where Presidency proposals on future financing were tabled in the November prior to a deal being agreed in December.
She claimed that it would be very difficult for us to resolve the budgetary issue.
I would simply reiterate that, if we are not able to resolve the question of the future direction of Europe, it makes the challenge of resolving the future financing of Europe commensurately more difficult.
In relation to Mrs Lambert’s points, specifically on climate change, let me be very direct in terms of the progress that we wish to see.
We wish to build consensus around the threat of climate change and the need for urgent action to tackle it.
That is why on 17&#160;October the Environment Council, under our Presidency, agreed an initial European Union position for the United Nations climate change negotiations in December.
We are keen to provide a solid foundation of work for the European Union’s medium- and long-term climate change strategy, and a range of Council formations and the European Union’s external summits are contributing to that end.
Finally, we seek agreement on the need for cost-effective, flexible solutions to tackle emissions from EU aviation and, as the Presidency, we welcomed the recent study commissioned by the Commission, which recommends emissions trading as the best solution.
Mr Piotrowski and Mr Szymański both spoke about the challenge of globalisation and raised important issues that I think will inform the discussions taking place with Heads of Government tomorrow at Hampton Court.
I speak not only on behalf of the Presidency, but I am glad to say a unanimous General Affairs Council, which was consistent with the previous undertakings agreed at the December 2004 European Heads of Government meeting and was able to open those accession talks for full membership of Turkey back on 3 October.
As our Prime Minister very eloquently put it in his summation of today’s debate, if you look at the future challenges that Europe faces, whether on the issue of climate change or the issue of securing prosperity and sustaining social protection in the face of the challenge of globalisation, it is not difficult to make a case for the importance of Europe’s work over the coming 50&#160;years.
Mr Titley generously recognised and acknowledged the work of the Presidency with Parliament.
I am not sure whether the current attendance in Parliament is a reflection on the relative interest in the Prime Minister’s remarks and those of Britain’s Europe Minister, but nonetheless I am grateful and will pass back to my fellow ministers his kind words.
All of us who during the British Presidency have worked so hard to secure further action on both debt relief and on aid payments now see this as being a vital and important opportunity which must be grasped if we are to make progress on the third vital area for development, which is of course the issue of trade.
Now is the opportunity to rededicate ourselves and commit ourselves to the genuine endeavour of securing agreement on future financing, which of course is important to the country holding the Presidency and indeed every Member State.
But I recognise that it is particularly important to those Member States that have joined the European Union recently.
Mr Mayor Oreja asked broad questions about Europe’s future role and, specifically on the question of terrorism, wondered whether we would be able to translate the broader areas of work set out by our Prime Minister into action.
Again, I would suggest to Members of this House that is exactly why we have commissioned the paper – in order to translate those broad areas of work into concrete achievement in due course.
Mr Barón Crespo raised the question of the constitutional treaty, which provides me with the opportunity of reinforcing one of the original ideas behind the Hampton Court meeting, which this discussion anticipates.
It would be wrong for us therefore simply to have addressed the question of the text when there is the broader question of how Europe is engaging with globalisation, to which our citizens are demanding an answer.
Mr Tajani raised a number of important points, as did Mrs Roure.
Let me end, however, by reiterating the importance of the point made by Mr Saryusz-Wolski, namely, the issue of future financing.
As I say, I have sought to make clear on the floor of this House today the importance that we attach to finding agreement on future financing if we can at the December Council.
However, in support of that contention let me also mention the letter our Prime Minister, as President of the European Union, sent to his colleagues inviting them to join him at Hampton Court tomorrow.
He said, and I quote: ‘I know that a number of colleagues are concerned to know how the Presidency plans to take forward the future financing negotiations.
Mr President, I am grateful once again for the opportunity to respond to this important and timely debate.
I feel sure that tomorrow’s meeting at Hampton Court will be a real and important opportunity for Member States to send a message of both unity and collective endeavour and to demonstrate the European Union’s key role in responding to the challenges about which we have heard so much today. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, Mr Alexander mentioned the strategy for Africa.
Of course we could find elements of disagreement, but we could also find broad agreement on a number of issues, including the need to establish a budget as soon as possible.
I would have liked to have heard a little more about how we can inspire the citizens’ confidence and trust in what we are doing.
This is about the content, about showing that we can make a difference in Europe, but we also have to establish a good dialogue and debate with citizens in Europe over the next few years.
The Presidency is right to have focussed this debate not on the treaty text, but on its context.
Instead of proposing to re-write treaty articles, discussions have focused on the future of Europe’s social model (with the special European Council), on the economy, on re-shaping the budget, on enlargement and on how best to achieve a single market in services.
Progress on these points will create a new context in which we can then decide what to do about the text.
In practice, something between these two extremes is likely.
The issues that lead all 25 governments to conclude that a new, constitutional treaty is necessary remain on the table and will have to be addressed.
Mr Blair, the President-in-Office of the Council, thus placed the accent on the need for greater flexibility in the labour market and on mobility and support for restructuring, which leads to job cuts, and in turn to more unemployment and a more precarious labour market.
On this evidence, it is clear that what is in store is an emphasis on liberalisation, which would exacerbate existing economic and social problems, would only serve the interests of the economic and financial groups in the EU and would pander to the agenda of the Union of Industrial and Employers’ Confederations of Europe. &#160;&#160; At Hampton Court tomorrow, the Heads of State or Government will discuss the challenges that globalisation poses to our economic and social models.
The simple fact that this meeting, despite its political and budgetary consequences, has been shortened to just one day is worrying in itself.
What is worse, the solution has already been found, if we are to believe Gordon Brown, the British Chancellor of the Exchequer.
As long as you persist in trying to adapt our social models to globalisation, there will continue to be more unemployment, more poverty and more uncertainty.
We need to do exactly the opposite: adopt only those aspects of globalisation that do not run counter to the political objectives of prosperity and full employment. &#160;&#160; I have listened to all of this debate with increasing sadness at the way in which the impressive, ambitious rhetoric of the UK Presidency is just not matched by reality.
Had the UK come up with meaningful proposals then I believe this Chamber would have been a useful ally.
In relation to this question, the so-called Green Line Regulation was adopted by the Council on 1&#160;May 2004 with a view to facilitating the reunification of Cyprus by encouraging the economic development of the Turkish Cypriot community through the facilitation of trade between the northern part of Cyprus and the European Union customs territory.
In its first report on the implementation of the Green Line Regulation from 1&#160;May 2004 to 30&#160;April 2005, the Commission concludes that the crossing of persons is running smoothly, but that the volume and value of goods crossing the line remains limited.
While the report mentions the last amendments adopted in February 2005, the Commission implementing decisions concerning the new goods covered were still under preparation.
With the permission of Parliament, I shall pass them on directly to the Commission so that they can inform the ongoing work that the Commission is taking forward. &#160;&#160; Commission officials told me last year, when I was in Nicosia just after the Green Line Regulation had come into effect, that in practice the Greek Cypriots were taking every opportunity to find reasons for preventing its maximum application and that trade was still being very severely restricted.
However, I can assure Parliament that we will continue efforts to achieve agreement.
However, as discussed at great length in our previous conversation about future financing, securing agreement often depends not on the will of one country, even one country holding the Presidency, but on the capacity to secure the support of all countries.
In April 2005, the Commission finalised and submitted to the Council a draft negotiating mandate for the conclusion of an EU stabilisation and association agreement with the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro.
That is why I am delighted that the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations for stabilisation and association and the agreement with Serbia and Montenegro at the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 3&#160;October, of which I have already spoken.
A formal ceremony to open negotiations was subsequently held in Belgrade on 10&#160;October, in the presence of the Commissioner for Enlargement, Mr&#160;Rehn.
The Council has judged that the pace and conclusion of negotiations will depend in particular on Serbia and Montenegro’s progress in developing its legislative framework and administrative capacity, the effective implementation of the Constitutional Charter and, of course, full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
The Council and Commission will jointly review Serbia and Montenegro’s performance in these areas before negotiations conclude. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Alexander, two brief questions.
Firstly, knowing that a referendum will be held in Montenegro in 2006 on its possible secession from the joint state of Serbia-Montenegro, to what extent will progress in negotiations on the stabilisation agreement affect this referendum in Montenegro?
I therefore think we would be getting ahead of ourselves – given the recent announcement that was given formal expression when Commissioner Rehn visited Belgrade recently – if we anticipated what may or may not be the conclusion of a potential referendum in the future.
However, I would certainly make the point – and this was a point I made very clearly on behalf of the European Union when I met with representatives both of Serbia and Montenegro – that the challenge of cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal is an immediate and contemporary one.
We have been heartened by some of the steps that have taken place in Belgrade in recent months and the level of cooperation that has been shown in comparison to earlier levels of cooperation.
However, let us be very clear this afternoon in this Chamber that there is further and real progress that must be made to secure full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I apologise for being late, as a result of which I missed some of the response by the President-in-Office, but, as we are discussing Serbia, let me tell you that I was in Kosovo last week – the Albanian part of Serbia’s northern province to be precise – where people are extremely worried about the fate of 2&#160;500 people who are still missing.
The Council is aware of the importance of the role of young farmers, particularly in the development of the rural environment and environmental conservation.
In 2003, 24% of agricultural holdings were headed by a person under 45 years of age.
Looking ahead, the Council has recently adopted a range of measures in the framework of the Rural Development Regulation for 2007-2013, in particular aid of up to EUR&#160;55&#160;000 per holding, aid for modernisation and the possibility of utilising the national reserve to help young farmers to establish themselves. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I thank the Minister for his reply and I hope that financing will be decided quickly so that, by 2010 and 2013, everything he has told us about will have been put into practice.
The tenor of the question reflects the sense of urgency on the part of not just one Member State but a number of different Member States about the need to reach agreement on future financing.
I set out before the Council the terms of the third cohesion report on economic and social policy, which reported on progress.
It would be helpful to make it clear that the target date for adoption of the EU-wide rural development strategy is autumn 2005.
The framework for monitoring and evaluation should be agreed by the end of 2005 and Member States will then produce national strategy plans in line with an overarching European Union strategy.
So clearly there will be a national as well as a European locus at that juncture.
The position on the prospective trade talks in the critical days ahead was discussed at the General Affairs Council last week and is a matter of ongoing concern and direct interest to the European Commission, which leads for us in that area.
However, there is a risk that discussion of the importance of the Doha development round will be narrowed down to a discussion of agriculture and rural development issues.
The European Union has a great deal to gain from a successful conclusion to the World Trade Organization talks, not just in agriculture but also in services and non-agricultural market access.
Against this background, I can assure the honourable Member that the Council is sparing no effort to reach an agreement on this important draft directive with the European Parliament at second reading.
As regards the extent to which the Council is taking into account the amendments adopted by the European Parliament at first reading during these negotiations, I can confirm today that the Council is making a substantial effort to accommodate key elements of these amendments.
It is clear that an adequate balance has to be struck between realistic and achievable targets and over-ambitious ones that will only diminish the credibility of Community legislation. &#160;&#160; Thank you for that encouraging and positive response, but I have to say that it is disappointing that the Council is weakening the proposals before Parliament, particularly by reducing the level of the targets and making them non-binding.
This means that, under the UK Presidency proposals, the target has been cut so much that, in the UK, it is pretty much what is being achieved by measures already in place.
If the Government has a genuine commitment to energy efficiency, when are we going to see it in terms of a toughness in the current negotiations between the Council and Parliament?
However, mandatory energy savings targets could lead to short-term measures being implemented purely to meet targets, rather than the long-term focus which is needed.
It can also focus attention and resources unduly on measuring rather than doing.
Member States aim to influence this through the different measures proposed in the draft directive.
However, the effectiveness of these measures is not completely predictable or entirely within the control of Member States themselves.
On top of that, we already have mandatory targets as part of our commitments under Kyoto.
The judgment of the Court of Justice confirmed that the Community legislator may take measures relating to the criminal law of the Member States when that is necessary for the achievement of the Community policy in question.
It did not decide about the scope of application of Title 6 of the Treaty on European Union as such, nor did it limit the scope of application of Title 6 beyond the very specific issue on which the Court of Justice ruled.
The Council cannot and should not seek to prevent Member States from cooperating bilaterally or multilaterally on police and judicial matters, as long as they observe the obligations incumbent upon them under the Treaties.
Neither the Council nor its Presidency can therefore provide information regarding such forms of cooperation for the European Parliament.
Information regarding cooperation on police or judicial matters under Title 6 is transmitted to the European Parliament on the basis of Article&#160;39 of the Treaty.
As regards the information to national parliaments, this is solely a matter for the individual Member States, not the Council or its Presidency. &#160;&#160; President-in-Office, thank you for your reply, but there is considerable concern about the proliferation of fora for addressing security and border control issues.
Then we have the Prüm Convention among seven Member States, which seems to go back to the Trevi system of the 1970s.
However, there is no more eloquent testimony to the approach that we have taken, whereby the whole of Europe is involved in these discussions, than the role that our Home Secretary, Mr Charles Clarke, has played both with this Parliament and, indeed, with other members of the relevant Council.
Our ambition certainly includes taking forward that work as we anticipate the conclusion of our Presidency in the December European Council, which, of course, will involve all Member States. &#160;&#160; I welcome the Council’s description of the effect of the judgment of the Court of Justice, which was accurate, but I ask that the press reaction to this judgment – not least in Mr Alexander’s own Member State – be countered wherever possible.
I hope that the accuracy of my answer will fulfil the purpose.
The Presidency of the European Union is responsible for many things, such as seeking a way forward on future financing or trying to chart a course for a modern Europe in the age of globalisation.
The Commission’s report on the outcome of its screening of pending legislative proposals, to which the honourable Member refers, will be studied with great interest within the Council.
She will appreciate that, as the Presidency, we now need to consult all Member States and work for an agreement that is acceptable both to the Council and to this Parliament.
We the Council, the Commission, and again this Parliament, need to work together to make that commitment a reality now. &#160;&#160; Thank you, President-in-Office, for your reply.
On the substantive issue of transparency, we had a discussion earlier today, not least in light of what our Prime Minister, on behalf of the Presidency, stated earlier this month in reply to a question asked in Parliament on the eve of the British Presidency.
The process of seeking to take forward the undertaking he gave to look at the specific issue of transparency within the Council is now in the process of being taken forward.
Rather similarly to the Council initiative which she described originally, it requires a degree of support beyond the Presidency-in-Office of the Council.
That is why a process is now established under our Presidency to seek to find a way forward. &#160;&#160; Is this not just another case where an important issue tends to get hijacked by the Euro-sceptics in the press and in politics?
I would, however, emphasise in my reply that the terms of his question – leaving aside the specific issue of how the press deals with these matters, for which none of us, I am afraid, are directly responsible – emphasises in my mind the importance of all the institutions of Europe seeking to take forward this agenda of better regulation.
This is not an agenda that, with the greatest of respect to Commissioner Verheugen or, indeed, to President Barroso, can be achieved by their efforts alone, nor can it be achieved by this Parliament alone.
It needs to be a shared endeavour between the Council, the Presidency and Parliament.
If there is a genuine commitment – as I believe there is a growing commitment within each of those institutions to grasp this agenda and drive it forward – then we will hopefully in the future see less of the headlines of the type that the honourable Member describes.
To establish credibility for the Commission, the Presidency and for Parliament, it is necessary for us to be seen to be taking decisive action on what is unquestionably one of the issues of concern, not simply to the business community across Europe, but also to our citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, I welcome your comments and your reply.
As we know, the European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership is a group of 14 Member States plus Norway from outside the European Union.
The initial investment to establish the partnership was provided by the European Commission with a EUR&#160;200&#160;million allocation over five years through the Sixth Research and Development Framework Programme which runs from 2002 to 2006.
The partnership has a total budget of EUR&#160;600&#160;million for the period from 2003 to 2007: in addition to the&#160;EUR&#160;200 million provided by Community funding, EUR&#160;200&#160;million will come from Member States and a further EUR&#160;200&#160;million will be sought from industry, charities and private organisations.
It is the responsibility of each Member State to contribute in kind through their national research activities.
Various projects funded by public money in each Member State count towards the total EUR&#160;200&#160;million contribution.
The Council has identified a need for joined-up action between the Commission and Member States in partnership with the Clinical Trials Partnership to support the research and development of new tools to fight HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, a fact underlined in the conclusions of the General Affairs Council on 24&#160;May this year.
The partnership has identified a number of specific research topics and will issue calls for research proposals for these topics over a two- to three-year period.
Calls for research proposals issued last month include a specific call for research on microbicides.
The title of this call for research is ‘Capacity building for the conduct of phase I, II and III trials of vaginal microbicides against sexual transmission of HIV’.
Applications will come in over the next few months and funding decisions will be made next year. &#160;&#160; Obviously, microbicides could revolutionise AIDS prevention throughout the world.
It also emphasises the importance of clinical research being taken forward if we are to find solutions to a challenge as great as HIV/AIDS.
The sole purpose of this draft agreement is to ensure that, where a bilateral agreement between a Member State and Azerbaijan exists, such an agreement complies with Community law.
However, it would also be important – given the terms of the supplementary question – to make clear that the European Commission has no competence to get involved directly in this matter: it is a bilateral issue between the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Azeri Government.
Last week, Israel broke off diplomatic contacts with the Palestinian Authority after three young settlers were killed near Hebron.
This is a real test for the Palestinian Authority and for Israel, but also a great opportunity.
However, I would simply reiterate that, ultimately, the responsibility lies primarily with Israel and with the Palestinian authorities.
The European Union is committed to continuing the enhanced support for the Palestinian civil policing through EU corps, in order to help build the necessary security environment in Gaza following Israeli withdrawal, so as to allow exactly the kind of economic development that is necessary.
The European Union continues to be one of the biggest international donors to the Palestinian Authority.
The Commission has recently announced a larger package of support to the Palestinians and will provide around EUR 280 million in 2005.
That money includes a substantial contribution to help tackle the priorities identified by Mr James Wolfensohn.
The European Union’s aim is to ensure that disengagement is a success and a step toward implementing the roadmap.
The proposal for a directive on retention of traffic data, which the Commission adopted on 21&#160;September 2005, and which the Council considered in October, also concerns traffic data and not the content of communications.
A decision has yet to be made on whether the framework decision or directive is the appropriate legal base for such rules by the Council on data retention.
In the meantime, work will continue on the substance, in consultation, of course, with the Commission and the European Parliament.
At its meeting on 2&#160;July 2004, the Council stressed the need to give particular consideration to the proportionality of the measure in relation to costs, privacy and efficiency.
That suggests December as the opportunity when, under the scenario that we would wish to see, under pillar one, as our Home Secretary Charles Clarke has proposed, we can see progress being made in relation to this instrument.
I hope that directly answers the question because we continue to seek to find a basis under pillar one rather than under pillar three, as the question implied. &#160;&#160; As the President-in-Office has just said, Charles Clarke made the welcome decision for the European Parliament to now give its views on this proposal.
Firstly, the British Presidency is committed to securing agreement on the data-retention measure before the end of the year, as I said, and is taking forward work on substance in consultation with the Commission and European Parliament alike, which have made these points.
This is part of striking the balance that we believe is necessary between protecting people from terrorism and serious crime and, on the other hand, respecting civil rights.
We must defend our communities from the threat of attack while upholding human rights in accordance with international law and the ECHR.
There was immediately something in the region of 60 hits on her private social security file and extra hits on her private taxation file, which the Revenue Commissioners are examining.
The Presidency is keen to see progress on data protection and we agree that all retained data must be held securely, in line with data protection principles, and that very high standards of protection should be required for exchanges of information.
The police and other bodies should not have unrestricted access to the retained data and it is essential that national standards for access to private information are met.
When adopting legislation, the Community legislator carefully examines possible trade-offs in relation to other Community policy objectives.
In that context, while I have sympathy with the points made by the Member about the need for these practical difficulties to be addressed, it would seem more appropriate that these matters be brought to the attention of the Commission by the individual Member States acting in their own interests rather than it be, in the first instance, a Presidency matter.
Only 3 of the 25 Member States include tallow within the scope of the directive.
It has not previously been put to me that the Presidency should approach the Commission to issue the advisory note because, clearly, up until now the position has been clear in relation to this as in relation to other directives.
Whether to invest in any necessary upgrading to comply with the directive when it comes fully into force at the end of this year is a matter for a commercial decision by the rendering companies and biodiesel companies burning tallow as fuel.
It marked the beginning of a long and rigorous process that will be guided by the negotiating framework adopted by the Council the same day.
The European Union will continue to monitor respect for the human and cultural rights of the Kurdish people and the situation in the south east of the country in general.
As stipulated in the negotiating framework, Turkey should consolidate and broaden legislation and implement measures on, , freedom of expression, freedom of religion and minority rights.
Progress in these areas should be irreversible, fully and effectively implemented.
The Council can assure Members that the Union attaches great importance to this issue as part of the ongoing reform process in Turkey.
Hence progress will continue to be monitored and evaluated in all the relevant bodies. &#160;&#160; I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the President-in-Office on his role in Luxembourg, a negotiation he probably will not forget.
On the very serious question of the Kurdish community, I am in contact with the largest community centre of Kurds anywhere in the United Kingdom.
In response to his generous tribute to my role in the negotiations and the assertion that I would never forget it, I think I was in some danger of forgetting my own name by the end of 30 hours of serial and continuing negotiations!
The Council has, on several occasions, confirmed the importance it attaches to research and technological development activities in the context of the Lisbon Agenda.
The research programme in particular is the main Community instrument.
In the European Union, 41&#160;300 lost work days per one thousand of the population are due to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease alone.
The Framework Programme indicates the broad lines of research activity and therefore does not exhaustively list the potential individual research topics.
These will be elaborated on in the specific programme decisions and during the execution of the programme, which is the responsibility of the Commission.
Research projects are selected mainly on the basis of open calls for proposals to the scientific community and take into account various criteria such as scientific excellence and European added value. &#160;&#160; I thank the Presidency for an encouraging reply and for the commitment shown by Mr Blair earlier to boosting RTD in the European Union budget.
Research is an area where a common programme, rather than 25 separate national programmes, can provide added value and can save money.
Health, important in its own right for the human beings involved, is also important in terms of our economic performance.
The statistics you quoted show that this is an area that can tie in with and be a flagship example of how the Lisbon Agenda can be matched in the field of research.
Even while I was sitting at desk No 2 and our Prime Minister was still addressing the Chamber this afternoon, one of your colleagues in the Socialist Group had already passed a note to me saying that they took the strength of commitment to research and development shown by our Prime Minister during his speech as a very clear indication that the Seventh Framework Programme would be fully funded to the extent that she wanted.
The Commission and the Council will continue to monitor these issues closely.
A new law on foundations is expected to resolve some of these problems.
The European Commission has acknowledged that the latest draft is a significant improvement on its predecessor.
The Union has urged Turkey to adopt such a law promptly and ensure that it is fully compliant with European standards.
On his visit to Ankara from 6 to 8&#160;October 2005, Commissioner Rehn urged the Turkish Authorities to take into account the Commission’s comments on the draft law.
The European Union has also repeated its calls for Turkey to reopen the Halki Greek Orthodox Seminary.
Furthermore, the situation in the south east of Turkey remains a matter for concern.
The negotiation mandate agreed by the European Union that will guide accession negotiations with Turkey in the months and years ahead stipulates that Turkey should work towards further improvement in respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as consolidate and broaden legislation and implementing measures on, , freedom of religion and minority rights.
The Turkish Government remains committed to this and is searching for a solution that is both compatible with Turkish law and acceptable to the Patriarchate.
On the specific issue of confiscation of Greek Orthodox Church property, Commissioner Rehn wrote to the Turkish Foreign Minister in June on the shortcomings in the draft law on foundations and highlighted the issue of property rights specifically.
In response to the subsequent point made by the honourable Member, I would simply reiterate the importance of recognising the relative institutional responsibilities with regard to this Regulation, and I would suggest that, if there are continuing concerns of the type that the honourable Member has raised, then, given the relative responsibilities of the Commission and the Presidency, it might be more appropriate for them to be directed towards the Commission.
The Prime Minister, Tony Blair, said in his letter to Heads of Government ahead of the informal meeting that will take place tomorrow at Hampton Court, that he believes agreement can and should be reached at the December Council, and that he will make every effort personally to achieve it by then.
However, it would be inappropriate for me to narrate or rehearse the arguments that were advanced from the British seat in June, given my responsibilities today to answer on behalf of the Presidency.
In relation to the general issue of agriculture, again, our Prime Minister addressed that in the course of his remarks today, namely that we believe it is necessary to have a pathway forward, in terms of reform, that recognises the kind of future challenges that the European Union will face in the course of the coming Financial Perspective.
There are particular demands on the Presidency from the A10 countries – the new accession countries – which have articulated repeatedly to us their clear desire for certainty in terms of prospective funds being available to them in the future.
We have listened carefully to those points of view, consistent with our responsibilities as President.
We recognise that the political context in which discussions on future financing should take place would be better served by having had a prior conversation about the future direction of Europe, which is why we have organised the informal Heads of Government meeting tomorrow.
My question is a follow-up.
I understand that President Borrell Fontelles has written formally, asking for a return to the system that has served this House well for 30 years.
I think that ministers have an important responsibility to endeavour to address themselves to the questions that have been put.
This was the culmination of a political transitional process agreed in Bonn four years ago.
I was also able to discuss all the challenges ahead and the next phase of the stabilisation process with President Karzai and his ministers, as well as with Afghan civil society and the United Nations.
This has followed the process since July.
It also benefited from the cooperation of an observer delegation from Parliament, led by Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, who is here today as well.
I think we can say that the EU EOM was the single largest international observer group in the country.
I look forward to the final report, which will include an overall assessment of the entire election process, as well as recommendations to improve the conduct of future elections.
We are on track to deliver the EUR 1 billion we pledged in Tokyo for the period 2002 to 2006.
Roads, schools and clinics are being built and many of them are already working.
It is clear that the country still has a long way to go.
Finally, I turn to the role of the European Union.
The European Union and its Member States have been playing an important role in Afghanistan.
My hope is that this can be concluded in the weeks ahead so that it would be in place ahead of any post-Bonn conference and could help to shape discussions there.
Finally, I believe that the European Union is both entitled and obliged to play a major part in ensuring the success of the post-Bonn compact.
Firstly, on her positive and active commitment to the cause of democratic consolidation in Afghanistan; secondly, on having rightly sent an election observation mission to that country, which is experiencing very difficult circumstances.
I would like to take advantage of this debate in the plenum of our Parliament, as we did in the press conference that we held with Emma Bonino in Afghanistan, to pay tribute to the candidates who died in this electoral process, to the electoral agents, and, above all, to the European Union citizens who lost their lives in this noble task of contributing to the cause of democratic consolidation in that country.
I am thinking of the French soldier who lost his life at the very time we were carrying out our mission and also the seventeen brave Spanish soldiers who died in a helicopter accident, in honour of whom we expressed our gratitude and recognition during our visit to Herat, the base where they had their general headquarters, and also our visit to the Governor, the President, the authorities of the United Nations, women candidates and the General Head of the NATO forces in that country.
From a general point of view, I would like to say that our mission of Members of the European Parliament fully agreed with the conclusions resulting from the extraordinary work carried out by Emma Bonino, and also, from a political point of view, we expressed our view of the priorities that the European Union should set for the future.
We believe fundamentally in the democratic consolidation of that country, from an institutional point of view and in terms of respect for human rights and, in particular, the rights of women; because democratic development cannot be achieved in a country without the contribution of its men and women and their right to determine their own future.
Madam President, the European Parliament’s delegation expressed its opinion that our Parliament should contribute to the post-Bonn Process, hosting and organising a broad conference with the participation of the Commission, of the Member States participating in the joint actions of NATO and, of course, of the new representatives in the Afghan Parliament, so that in this way they can go on defining and marking out their own future.
We also believe that it was important for the European Parliament to give its full support to the joint statement that the Commission is going to sign with the new authorities and with the Afghan Government, and to provide an institutional framework and a channel for the broad and generous cooperation our Parliament has been demonstrating.
Furthermore, we would call upon the Commission to consider whether in the future we should establish a broad association agreement which could provide and guide an institutional format for cooperation in the future.
The turnout, greater than 50%, compares favourably with other electoral contests around the world.
We know now that many women were elected.
On the list, one of the first names to be announced as elected was the women’s rights activist Malalai Joya.
When we were there observing the elections, President Karzai explained to us his choice, or choice, of electoral system – to which the Commissioner has also referred – based on a single non-transferable vote.
The Election Observation Mission of which I was proud to be part must be part of a longer, deeper process of support for Afghanistan. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to take this opportunity to thank on behalf of this House the members of my core team, the long-term observers, and the people who spent four months with me in this extraordinary but very difficult country, in conditions sometimes very tense and unusual, and also very emotional and not particularly easy.
The Mission, in short, will make public, after consulting the Commission, its final report on the elections; we shall also undertake, again after consultation, to draw up for the first time a report on democratisation and its future steps.
I believe that to be a cause for concern, and I hope that the European institutions will let it be known to our Afghan friends and the authorities of the country, or will remind them of the need to respect both the law and the rule of law.
Moreover, with regard, as you said, to future follow-up to the Bonn Conference, I would like to emphasise two things.
Whether one talks about security, or commerce, or economic development, the regional dimension is definitely an element to take into account.
It is also true, though, that Afghanistan is one of the countries to which international commitment, particularly from Europe, can make a difference.
It is precisely in areas like this, however, that we can make a difference, though not on our own.
Our American friends must also remain in the country at a time when there are still difficulties on the security front, while hopefully behaving more respectfully towards local traditions, which is something that does not always happen.
As our fellow Members have said, I think that we can be very pleased with the course of the parliamentary elections in Afghanistan on 18&#160;September&#160;2005.
Even though there has been some violence in recent months, especially against candidates and tellers, the elections themselves took place in a non-violent atmosphere.
Moreover, it will make the situation very difficult for the NGOs, which are currently cooperating with ISAF.
We must also raise the issue, as you did, Commissioner, of drugs in the country.
We need a plan that takes account of all aspects connected with this problem, which equally affects the agricultural and health sectors and the Afghan economy in general.
The current government of President Karzai has signed contracts for US troops to be stationed in Afghanistan indefinitely.
I believe, furthermore, that there is a serious problem with, for example, the International Security Assistance Force, which is undeniably playing an extremely positive role, though I personally am against all war and all military involvement.
I wish to thank not only the Commissioner but also the whole European Union, which is working in an alternative way to ensure that Afghanistan is favourable towards democracy.
In order to achieve this objective, however, we need to work very hard to support public institutions, so that both NGOs and civil society may somehow make themselves heard. &#160;&#160; – So far Afghanistan is the only case where a terrorist organisation has started a war with the world's most powerful democratic state and had a known address.
Indeed, one could not fail to be moved by the sight of vast numbers of ordinary people, especially women from the countryside, going for the first time in their lives to vote for the hope of a better system, freedom and respect for all people.
However, Afghanistan, having become the first theatre of the global war on terror, is already creating a true democracy.
Nevertheless, the opportunity for democracy and human rights in Afghanistan is a great test for everybody.
The European Union has made a significant contribution and the whole of Europe must lend a hand in the historic construction of this new state.
Success in Afghanistan will represent the first defeat of the front of global terrorists, as well as the hope that this new type of totalitarian aggression can be repelled.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Madam President, speaking as one of the members of the delegation that was sent to observe the elections, I would like to extend the warmest of thanks to our chairman Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, for the good work done by the delegation in Afghanistan, and also, of course, to Emma Bonino, who led the EU’s observation mission, and to the European Union’s long-term observers, who did a splendid job, and are continuing to do so to some extent.
The 25% quota for women has been very useful in this respect.
It is significant that the leader of our delegation, Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, told a press conference in Afghanistan that the European Union will, in monitoring developments in Afghanistan, take a very close look at human rights, and the rights of women in particular.
I want to thank very warmly our good colleague, Mr&#160;Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, who led us so wonderfully well.
I also want to thank my long-time colleague whom I have always admired, Mrs Bonino, who has been committed to Afghanistan for so long.
I saw thousands of women, most in burkhas with their faces shrouded.
Let us not forget that Afghanistan is one of the two poorest nations in the world.
However, we should also remember those from the European Union who have already given their lives for Afghanistan.
The country is desperately poor.
We shall be there for a very long time, but it is the sort of job to which the European Union is wonderfully suited. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the people of Afghanistan, for decades now, have been paying with blood and tremendous destruction the for continuing interventions of imperialism, because the country is of major geo-strategic importance.
The hypocritical interest of the American and European imperialists in the terrorist attack, human rights and democracy in Afghanistan is an insult and mockery of history, because it was they who supported politically, morally, financially and militarily the blindest and most reactionary of forces, in order to block the path of the Afghan people towards progress and turn the country into an advanced military base.
The war unleashed in 2001 by the United States of America and ΝΑΤΟ, with the assent of the European Union, has as its objective to achieve military and political control of the country which is today under occupation.
The precondition for any prospect of a solution for the benefit of the people is for all the occupying forces to leave and for the people themselves, in the midst of really tremendous difficulties, to seek paths to peace and independence. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, I should like to pay tribute to the Commissioner and to Mrs&#160;Bonino for her proactive approach.
At the same time, however, there can be no question that in some senses the country could be said to export drugs to the rest of the world.
Regardless of the cost, I am glad that the European Union is funding the arduous and long-winded process of democracy-building in Afghanistan, and that we provided genuine assistance during the recent elections.
We should obviously bear in mind the fact that a large number of countries exert an influence over Afghanistan, whether in political or economic terms.
We should ask ourselves a very straightforward question, namely whether Afghanistan would not export terrorism to the rest of the world to an even greater extent than it does now if we did not provide it with financial aid.
It is a well-known fact that Europeans are more highly valued, or perhaps more accepted in Afghanistan than our American friends.
Afghanistan is not some far-off land, but a truly European problem. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to start by warmly thanking Mrs Bonino and Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra for having done such a good job of leading us in Kabul.
I would also like to express my gratitude to all the Members of this House who were with us there.
To be sure, many things have gone wrong, and many more have yet to do so, but let us consider the history of Europe over the past century, that of my own country for example: even in the old Federal Republic, after the Second World War, many people with links to the old regime were accepted into the civil service and spent their careers in it.
I shall conclude by saying that I would very much like to see this House set up a delegation for relations with Afghanistan, for I believe that to be the best way for us to help the parliamentarians there. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, I should like to pay tribute to the Afghan people and to the country’s authorities, in particular President&#160;Karzai, for having succeeded in holding free elections.
These are a crucial step towards the establishment of democracy and peace in Afghanistan.
The scale of the problems faced in holding the elections can be gauged from the fact that 26&#160;000&#160;polling stations were opened throughout the country.
While the number of women voting in the presidential elections in 2004 was over three million, over 7000&#160;new female voters registered for this year’s elections, representing 44% of newly-registered voters.
Parliament’s pre-election mission, which visited Afghanistan on 14-19&#160;July of this year under the leadership of Mr&#160;Brok, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Mrs&#160;Morgantini, Chairman of the Committee on Development, held meetings with election candidates, women’s organisations, human rights groups and NGOs in Kabul, Herat and Bamiyan.
Many former military leaders accused of human rights violations or even crimes ran for election and gained seats.
I will only mention here one aspect of this aid, relating to the restoration of security, which is still too frequently under threat in some provinces.
One such point is the question of human rights abusers who have been elected to parliament, because this is something that concerns us all.
I would also like to highlight some positive aspects about some of the people who were elected.
There were courageous people with a record of standing up for justice and human rights in Afghanistan who also managed to get elected, including, as many of you mentioned, quite a significant number of women.
I agree that education and healthcare will be the key issues, and we will certainly continue to put our emphasis on those issues. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Last year we therefore proposed to the Council that Azerbaijan, together with Armenia and Georgia, be included in the European Neighbourhood Policy in order to further strengthen our relations, building on the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement in force since July 1999.
The Commission has been following the preparations for the parliamentary elections of 6&#160;November 2005 with great attention and some concern.
The events last week, such a short time before the elections, are a source of further concern.
Some Azeri Government ministers were dismissed by President Ilham Aliyev and subsequently arrested on charges ranging from corruption and embezzlement of state funds to an attempt to stage a coup d’état.
However, we wish to point out that it will be crucial for Azerbaijan to carry out, in a very transparent way, fair and thorough investigations and, if necessary, a balanced trial in order to establish the truth.
The arrests are inevitably contributing to a worrying deterioration in the atmosphere of the electoral campaign.
Unfortunately the campaign has already been marked by several episodes of violence and some specific incidents.
In all the contacts the Commission has had recently with the Azeri authorities, we have strongly insisted on respect for fundamental freedoms, including, of course, freedom of expression and the possibility for political parties to hold public rallies without undue restrictions and to access mass media.
It cannot be denied that some progress has been made compared with the parliamentary elections of 2000 and the presidential elections of 2003.
More candidates than ever were registered; state authorities have proved cooperative with international observers; all parties have been granted some access to television.
Finally, we welcome the decision by the Azeri authorities to introduce systems such as finger-inking that could dramatically reduce the possibility of multiple voting, although this came very late.
The worrying deterioration in the climate of the electoral campaign over the last few days threatens to completely overshadow this limited progress.
We will continue to monitor the situation very closely throughout the electoral campaign, on the day of the election and in the aftermath on 6 November.
As we have stressed several times recently, these elections will be a litmus test for Azerbaijan and its aspirations to come closer to the European Union in the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy.
The situation in Azerbaijan at the time was particularly serious, with allegations that the government was holding political prisoners and indeed that torture and ill-treatment in custody was common.
This time I speak as the resolution’s co-author, as I am being sent to Baku by this Parliament as an official observer for the 6&#160;November elections.
But I also wear the hat of the European Parliament’s rapporteur for the European Neighbourhood Policy, which is now being extended to the three Caucasus republics.
I welcome President Aliyev’s decree which, theoretically at least, orders state officials in the Central Electoral Commission to observe and implement free, fair and transparent elections.
I also believe that the recent dismissal of the old guard hard-line ministers resistant to political change, like the former health minister Ali Insanov, suggests that the dominant pro-government YAP party finally realises that the time has come to manage the transition peacefully to multi-party democracy and bring Azerbaijan closer to European democratic practices.
Nevertheless, there are still grounds for concern in terms of press freedom, balanced political access to the media, and the right of free assembly and protest.
It is also true that Azerbaijan is still affected by the Nagorno-Karabakh unresolved frozen conflict which can only be resolved peacefully by dialogue through the Minsk Group.
It is important that this money be used to enrich the entire country fairly, and there must be transparency and a renewed commitment by the government to fight public corruption.
Lastly, I hope that the action plan negotiations with Azerbaijan will shortly be resumed, once the direct air links to Turkish-occupied Northern Cyprus are discontinued, as this matter is clearly of deep concern to the Republic of Cyprus as an EU Member State.
We can indeed point to some advances, and they are deserving of mention and praise, but there has, recently, been a great deal of renewed nervousness, resulting in a number of measures that are not really compatible with free elections.
Our delegation’s cooperation with the parliament of Azerbaijan gave us the opportunity to discuss a variety of circumstances that gave us a great deal of food for thought.
The country’s ambassador had a job to explain why opposition rallies kept on being cancelled or rescheduled or had to be held on the outskirts of Baku, which must surely have hindered the opposition in its attempts to present its programme and candidates during the run-up to the election.
Azerbaijan will have to accept that it needs to make great advances towards democracy and transparency.
Something that struck us during our visit to Azerbaijan – and it was something of which we had to take note – was that the fact that the country was living in times of great conflict was the standard reason given for the constant obstruction of measures intended to foster modernisation, transparency and democracy.
Prominent opposition leader Rasul Guliyev was allowed to register as a candidate, but the authorities then refused to let him return to Baku and had him arrested in Ukraine.
This time the European Union needs to send a very strong signal that there cannot be a partnership with Azerbaijan without democracy and human rights there.
President Aliyev has to decide whether to embrace the democratic process or try to maintain autocratic rule with just a thin veneer of legitimacy.
There really is a need for a delegation from the Commission to follow our policies, in order to help Azerbaijan – because it is true that the situation there is not exactly great – and so that, in a few months’ time, we can put this country back on the agenda.
That country must now show the international community that it can be regarded as a democracy, and that it can follow the rules.
In joining the Council of Europe, Azerbaijan has not only turned towards Europe, but has signed up to its values of democracy and human rights, which bring us all together here.
Today, the European Union and Azerbaijan, just like the two neighbouring countries in the Southern Caucasus, are truly forging a joint path, because they are taking part in the new Neighbourhood Policy.
The message that the European Parliament must send to our Azerbaijani friends is clear: if this country wants to become a true democracy, free and transparent elections are a milestone for this.
The brutality, violence and intimidation observed against the opposition and their lack of access to the media are unacceptable.
We were also optimistic to see the number of candidates registering for the 125 constituencies; even dissidents were allowed to participate!
By sending a delegation of MEPs to monitor the smooth running of the ballot, the European Parliament is showing its interest and its desire to support the ongoing democratic process in Azerbaijan.
Today, we must call on all the parties contesting the election, particularly the majority in power, to demonstrate that this country is able to achieve its ambition: to hold free and transparent elections, in which every citizen, using his single ballot paper, can choose the candidates that will run the country in future.
I would remind you – because this is very important, Madam President – that the challenges in Azerbaijan are immense: finding a resolution to the frozen conflict in Nagorny-Karabakh, the increasing power ... &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Commissioner, after listening to your introductory remarks, I found it hard to believe that you would go on to talk about Azerbaijan.
All of our deliberations on this issue must be guided primarily by the resolutions adopted by Parliament and the interparliamentary delegation since 1999.
It is therefore crucial that relations with Azerbaijan be stepped up, and that this should take place on the basis of the EU’s fundamental democratic values.
I should like to conclude by expressing my support for the motion for a resolution.
I am well aware of how complex the situation is in the South Caucasus, and thus understand that it is far from easy to make progress in terms of democratic standards at a time when the threat of extremist attacks is ever-present.
That is why I am very surprised that the joint draft resolution makes no reference whatever to these recent events.
This is a precautionary measure that President Aliyev, in a speech before regional magistrates yesterday, said he would seriously consider.
I should like to take this opportunity to emphasise that the gagging and marginalising of the democratic opposition in Azerbaijan can, in time, have serious political consequences, not only at national level, but just as much at regional level.
I would urge you and the Council to be clear and forthright in calling the leaders in Baku to account on this matter – never mind the domestic electoral battle – certainly when such heavy charges as planning a and embezzling public funds are brought against prominent citizens.
European aloofness and a word of caution are really called for here, for the benefit of Azerbaijan’s society. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the draft resolution presented points out the most pressing problems in Azerbaijan which jeopardise the clean, democratic and pluralistic conduct of the parliamentary elections on 6 November.
The European Parliament is interested in the establishment of a multi-party legislation process, ensuring equal opportunities for the opposition.
This is not just a warning from the European Parliament to Azerbaijan, but also an important message to the entire South Caucasian region.
And Baku can prove itself on 6 November. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Azerbaijan has strong historical, cultural and economic ties with Europe, and it also has strong European ambitions.
If this mutual partnership is to develop and become stronger, certain common values must also be shared, such as respect for human rights, civil liberties, democracy and the rule of law.
Elections are an important measure of respect for these values in any country.
The authorities must also ensure that the elections are conducted in a calm and peaceful atmosphere.
By this I mean that if we are able to ascertain that certain procedures are followed during these elections – and I myself will be a member of the observation mission – then this will have a positive impact on our work on the proposed Action Plan.
The government even asked other countries for help, but the investigation has yielded no results to date.
The newspaper was discontinued after Huseynov’s death, and although his successor has launched a new publication, , he almost immediately came up against enormous problems publishing it.
The editor-in-chief of the newspaper , who is also a member of parliament and head of the Musavat party, is one of the opposition leaders who were imprisoned in October&#160;2003.
This is the situation in which the opposition press finds itself in Azerbaijan today, both in general and in the run-up to elections.
In conclusion, there is a chance that free media may one day operate in Azerbaijan.
It is too late, however, to establish a genuinely diverse media landscape before the November elections. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, mass infringements of democratic freedoms and human rights, the imprisonment of political adversaries and attacks on the free media are undermining the prospects of free and democratic elections being held in Azerbaijan.
The same decisive message, about non-participation in European Neighbourhood Policy, must also be sent in the run-up to the parliamentary elections.
The first is that we share the same concerns about this election process.
We have seen that the freedom of the press and freedom of expression are sometimes violated and we must follow this whole process very carefully.
However, I can say that the European Neighbourhood Action Plan – which is not yet ready as we have only just begun negotiations – will provide an opportunity to promote democratic reform.
It will also enable us to make many of our offers conditional upon further democratic reforms and respect for the rule of law.
I agree, however, that with the new oil possibilities, it will not be as easy as we previously thought, because there will be more wealth in the future.
Secondly, I recently held talks with the three countries of the Caucasus in New York during the Millennium Summit and the Ministerial Week.
We also discussed the question of these flights.
We are now waiting for a high-level troika to come back to see how we can start these negotiations on the action plans.
Finally, on radical Islamism, our message to President Aliyev was also very clear.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be held on 27 October 2005 at 11.30&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; Azerbaijan is a strategic partner for Europe in terms of economics, security and foreign policy.
Our language, our religion, the origin of our words and numbers have their roots in the Mediterranean region.
Now, 10 years later, however, we should perhaps ask whether we need the Barcelona Process today.
Europe needs it, we Europeans need it, and, hopefully, our partners need it, much more than they did when cooperation at this level began.
It pleases me to say that the European Parliament has always been a strong supporter of the Barcelona Process, and many individual Members of Parliament have done much to take this partnership forward.
We in our own countries stress the importance of education and skills; it is the only way we can succeed.
The ability to read is therefore important for democracy.
Secondly, I would like to raise the matter of economic growth and the reforms relating to it.
Its title – ‘The Barcelona process revisited’ – may at first sight appear rather surprising, but perhaps I may interpret it as meaning that its concern is with the strengthening and deepening of partnership between Europe and the other Mediterranean states, something that is quite clearly expressed in the motion for a resolution.
I agree with Mrs Jäätteenmäki when she says that it goes without saying that the Barcelona process will continue to be needed in the future.
It is in this area that we have achieved perhaps the most successes to date, but it is also one in which we need to make further progress.
There is of course more work for us to do in relation to culture, with the Anna Lindh Foundation, dialogue between civilisations and cultures, and this network’s potential for extension, being enormously important.
Over recent weeks, I have visited many of these Mediterranean countries – Tunisia, Jordan and Lebanon among them – and see with what efficiency we can work with these instruments, even when, as is the case in these countries, human rights issues are addressed under different headings.
Secondly, it is essential that we consider the vital importance of education, not least in terms of its impact on society.
The UNDP report on human development showed that education, and equal status for women in particular, will help drive development forward.
I would also like to see priority given to special support measures for women.
I also regard the problems surrounding migration as quite central among social issues.
Today, for example, I welcomed Morocco’s Deputy Foreign Minister, Mr Taieb Fassi Fihri, and we did of course discuss current events in Ceuta and Melilla, to which we cannot be indifferent.
While we must, of course, attempt to cut off people-smuggling, so that people do not become the victims of this terrible trade, we must also create additional development opportunities for these countries so that migratory movements of this kind do not occur.
Mrs Jäätteemäki quite rightly puts particular emphasis on cultural cooperation, to which we, too, want to give greater attention in future.
Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs&#160;Jäätteenmäki on her report on the Barcelona process revisited.
I would now like to turn to my proposal.
The Euro-Mediterranean Partnership was intended to provide the ambitious prospect of a better, varied future, simultaneously political, economic, social and cultural.
We have created a forum for discussion and cooperation with our Mediterranean neighbours, which I welcome, but we are far from achieving all the objectives set.
The conflict in the Middle East has not been resolved.
The region is still unstable.
The southern shore of the Mediterranean and its population have not benefited from the expected economic and social well-being.
Although the new rules of cumulative origin, as proposed by Commissioner Mandelson, are moving in the right direction, South-South economic integration is still far from complete.
We are the privileged partner of this region and all its hopes are turned towards us.
Caring about these people primarily means responding to their concerns and their aspirations, in other words our ability to achieve greater social cohesion and sustainable economic development.
The new Neighbourhood Policy proposed to us is a positive element, because it calls for greater democracy, even though the aid will have to be shared more broadly amongst our neighbours to the east and to the south.
I am also concerned by the absence, in the neighbourhood and partnership instrument as proposed by the Commission, of a specific reference to the Millennium Goals.
In the global environment in which we live, liberalisation cannot be the answer to the problems raised.
That applies to the protection of our environment – given that we are responsible for our planet – but, even more acutely, to the issue of public services that meet the basic needs of the people, namely education, health, culture, and access to water and power, which the Committee on International Trade, of which I am a member, proposed and which the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not adopt.
Let us be in agreement tomorrow to achieve a common goal. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by congratulating Mrs Jäätteenmäki on her report and on her willingness to cooperate, which has resulted in a complete motion for a resolution as regards information and political proposals.
The 10-year anniversary of the Barcelona process offers an excellent opportunity for us to take stock and, more importantly, to redefine our political vision and our strategy in the light of the new situation represented by the enlarged European Union, the challenges of globalisation and the increased threat of terrorism.
It is totally connected to the vital interests of the European Union, in that it can contribute towards peace and security in our area and can influence peace and equilibrium in the world.
They have not become aware of the challenges which require us to live together or of our points in common or even of the substance of our differences.
I trust that the 2005 summit, 10 years after the first summit, will clearly include in its priorities this need to involve civil society in the Barcelona process.
We expect initiatives to be encouraged, such as the Euromed platform mentioned by Mrs Jäätteenmäki, and other forms of cooperation at all levels, such as between local authorities, regions and universities.
The mobility of citizens in all social and professional groups must be encouraged.
We expect a real dialogue between cultures, in the full meaning of the word, which will not merely be a coming together to exchange business cards, but at which we shall engage in dialogue with a willingness to reveal our differences and find our points in common.
The dialogue between cultures must encompass the full breadth and depth of the word; cultural standards, the interpretation of history, the way of life and the position of women.
I am delighted, Commissioner, that you referred specifically to this, but I would like to point out to you that valuable work has been carried out by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, not only in the opinion attached to the report, but also in a report drafted in 2002, which formed the basis for the first regional women's programme in the Mediterranean which we have today.
Along with our US allies, this sends a clear message that we support, in this region, a strengthening of civil society, an open market economy, democratic pluralism and respect for fundamental human rights, including media freedom, independence of the judiciary and the rule of law and, in particular, women’s rights, as the previous speaker mentioned.
Tunisia is an advanced country in the eyes of the Arab world in this respect.
Environmental cooperation is also one of our priorities.
These countries, and in particular their growing populations, will provide growing markets for our own products.
We have seen that in the recent past during the Moroccan Casablanca bombings, the tragic civil war in recent years in Algeria and the rise of Hamas, Hezbollah and Islamic Jihad in the occupied Palestinian territories.
We must remember, of course, that the tragic Madrid bombings were carried out by Maghribi Salafists.
We all hope for a free trade area by 2010.
The new EuroMed Assembly facilitates dialogue between traditional enemies such as Israel and the Arab world.
This forum uniquely allows them to resolve their problems peacefully.
This Assembly is also a forum for the exchange of ideas between the Islamic world and the majority-Christian European Union.
I am optimistic about the spread of our democratic values in this region, with the recent elections in Iraq, Palestine and Lebanon and now, even, some tentative democratic moves in this direction from Egypt.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner who is here with us so late at night.
The Euro-Mediterranean partnership makes sense if it is the instrument used to remove those obstacles and to promote dialogue and cooperation between North and South, but also to prioritise South-South relations in those regions, which are greatly weakened.
With regard to the Summit in November in Barcelona, Barcelona + 10, the important thing is to establish clear, viable and realistic priorities, which at the same time must be ambitious.
We now have a reference framework, which is the alliance of civilisations, proposed by Prime Minister Zapatero and adopted by the United Nations, by means of the statement by its Secretary-General in July of this year.
The main objective of this association is to create an area of shared prosperity, making progress on reducing poverty, overcoming the socio-economic gap between North and South, and, as has been said, promoting political reforms, democratisation and the rule of law and respect for human rights.
Many other issues have been arising in this debate: the problem of the management of migratory flows, discrimination against women, the serious environmental problems facing the , dialogue amongst the three monotheistic religions, the need for local and regional cooperation, the fight against terrorism, control of weapons of mass destruction, participation by populations, etc.
We have had enlargement involving, for example, Cyprus, and have begun negotiations with Turkey and Croatia.
The Neighbourhood Policy has been developed, and we have seen how, in many of our partnership countries, democratisation has progressed and, in certain others, unfortunately taken a step backwards.
The fight against terrorism has become ever more important.
The war in Iraq and the difficult process that Iraq is now going through on its way to democracy also has an impact on relations with the region as a whole.
We have Iran and the problems surrounding the policy on nuclear fuel in that country.
We have the Palestinian election and the withdrawal from Gaza but, at the same time, stagnation in the peace process.
The areas concerned, of which there are indeed many, include terrorism, migration, growth, development, trade, the environment and energy.
Above all, however, the issues for the future are those of human rights and democracy.
These are the most important areas of all and, in these, the Barcelona Process has in many ways failed.
These areas present the big challenge for the Barcelona Process in the future.
We must restructure the whole of our cooperation so that it becomes a framework for a huge push for democratisation throughout the region.
The least free countries in the whole world are concentrated in the Middle East region, and this creates a breeding ground for fanaticism, frustration and perhaps also terrorism.
The Barcelona Process must in that way become a type of alternative for countries that can never become EU Members.
If you are not convinced, you simply have to take stock of the situation regarding freedom of the press in the region&#160;– this was done at the invitation of Mrs&#160;Patrie this afternoon&#160;– or the situation regarding freedom of expression in Tunisia, on the eve of the World Summit on the Information Society.
The proof can be seen in the number of violations of the rights to freedom of association, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly; a justice system that suffers major deficiencies in many countries; the torture which is commonplace, or even virtually systematic, in some countries, and the defenders of human rights who, all over the world, are the victims of numerous violations of their rights and are subject to a great deal of harassment.
The Barcelona process has therefore not kept all its promises on these issues.
As Mrs&#160;Jäätteenmäki said, I believe that it has some shortcomings with regard to women’s rights, economic and social rights and the mechanisms put in place for an effective policy regarding democracy and human rights.
Despite all that, the Barcelona process has made it possible to institute mechanisms and forums for political dialogue on these issues, and has therefore laid the necessary foundations to launch an ambitious policy of promoting human rights and democracy.
I think that, with regard to the fight against terrorism and illegal immigration, we are encouraging countries to break international law.
I am convinced that civil society and Members of Parliament can help to improve the implementation of our policies on human rights and democracy in this region.
Pessimists will tell us that the results have been below expectations, that economic progress in southern Mediterranean countries has been insufficient, that political dialogue has been difficult and fragmented, that Europe has not been able to make itself heard properly with regard to human rights and democracy, that South-South economic cooperation is still in its infancy, and that results have not been satisfactory in terms of joint management of immigration.
Association agreements have been signed between the European Union and all the southern Mediterranean countries, and there have of course been plenty of examples of cooperation, seemingly minor but very effective on a cultural level, which were all initiated within the wider framework of the Barcelona Agreement.
If we safeguard our cultural heritage we can understand and respect each another better within the context of our own identities and diversity. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the Mediterranean region is important for the Member States and for the European Union as a whole.
It is clear that the countries of the southern flank do not enjoy the same level of political development and/or economic prosperity.
The Mediterranean region must therefore be treated as a priority by the Union, not only due to the many historical, political, economic and social ties linking the countries of both flanks, but also for other reasons, such as security, including the terrorist threat, or the challenge of immigration.
Cooperation must operate in both directions — I repeat — in both directions.
If we insist on the need for reforms in our countries, how can we not insist on the need for reforms in their countries?
These countries must evolve.
Hence the importance of the Barcelona Process and the European Neighbourhood Policy.
They must be fundamental instruments for the Union with a view, firstly, to demonstrating to those countries that they are priorities within our foreign action and, naturally, to helping them, to demanding that they also cooperate faithfully with us on resolving these problems affecting us and, finally, in order to stimulate them towards reform.
A reform that can bring prosperity, freedom and, ultimately, more stability for these countries and hence for the whole of the Mediterranean basin.
I would like the next Barcelona Summit to be up to the challenge and I would of course like to end by thanking Mrs Jäätteenmäki for her efforts. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like quickly to highlight three aspects of this process.
The first is the connection between the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership and the Neighbourhood Policy, which was raised by the Commissioner.
I believe this aspect must not lead us to focus solely on bilateral action plans, but should encourage us to create a geographical and political space that is both European and Mediterranean.
I believe that to move forward with this process we need parliaments, societies and governments to engage somewhat more in dialogue, which in turn will enable us to create a more advanced human rights dimension.
Finally, the sociologist Edgard Morin is quite right when he points out that it is not cultures, religions and civilisations that engage in dialogue, but people, individuals, men and women.
I agree with our rapporteur when she says we must reinforce all the programmes and instruments that foster dialogue and understanding – and hence education, culture, training and information – between our societies.
Most of the Union’s attention has been focused on enlargement, the new accession process and future enlargement.
Unfortunately, southern Europe and the southern basin of the Mediterranean often only received attention when problems or specific issues arose – as when thousands of immigrants arrived in Ceuta, Melilla or Lampedusa, or when the situation became extremely difficult for the western Saharan refugees in Tindouf.
The human rights situation in the southern and eastern southern basin of the Mediterranean has not improved.
This is an old problem of European politics not being able to act with a single voice, even in the relationship with such strategic areas as the area south of the Mediterranean.
I should like to mention the Amazigh language and culture, which is neglected and even banned in several countries in northern Africa, and the Catalan language and culture.
I hope that the next meeting in Barcelona will be an opportunity to achieve more visible and concrete results in a short time. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, the enlargement of the European Union automatically increased the number of countries with a stake in the Barcelona process.
I should like to stress that this process is of importance not only for Malta and Cyprus, but also for the Central and Eastern European countries.
Tens of thousands of Polish tourists visit Tunisia and Egypt every year, and a considerable number of Poles go on pilgrimages to Israel.
Problems relating to illegal immigration, respect for human rights, equal rights for women, the advancement of democracy and the economic development of the countries around the Mediterranean Basin have become our problems too.
The European Union will benefit from the genuine implementation of as many of these values as possible in the countries neighbouring us to the south and east.
The new EU Member States very much want to become involved in building a political partnership concerned with security, as well as an economic and financial partnership and a social, cultural and humanitarian partnership. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the Euro-Mediterranean process is ten years old and the first conclusion to draw is that, had it not existed, it would have to be invented urgently, quite simply because, as the report by our rapporteur Mrs Jäätteenmäki states, despite its shortcomings, it has been a success.
Furthermore, the international situation demonstrates that the Euro-Mediterranean process is the best way to promote cooperation.
Let us also consider that we need a Euro-Mediterranean area of freedom, security and justice, let us accompany the free trade area with the essential concept of economic, social and territorial cohesion, which is as valid for our partners as it is for us, and let us also promote political participation.
The Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly is an extraordinary success.
But at least the late hour of this debate has not kept us from making a sober assessment of the Barcelona Process, and the rapporteur is certainly to be commended for her candid report.
Secondly, we must acknowledge that the problems of our Mediterranean partners are our problems too.
Take immigration, for instance: the limitations of the Barcelona Process on immigration have turned into a massive problem at the door of European Union Member States.
So, in helping our Mediterranean partners, we are in reality also helping ourselves.
Thirdly, we must treat our Mediterranean partners like true partners.
Finally, the process needs visibility, both for EU citizens as well as for citizens of the member partners.
Whether via the Barcelona Process, the association agreements or, more recently, within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy, Europe sets itself up as a partner of the countries on the southern shores of the Mediterranean.
This partnership includes economic, social and cultural dimensions, but, above all, it must be based on mutual recognition of a political platform made up of shared indivisible values: democracy, fundamental freedoms, human rights and gender equality.
That is why, following the assassination of Samir Kassir, following the appalling attack, more recently, on May Chidiac, I took the initiative, in agreement with my fellow members of the delegation for relations with the Mashreq countries, and also with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to organise a hearing today, during which we have heard from journalists from all over the Euro-Mediterranean area.
This morning, we submitted a symbolic appeal to the President of the European Parliament, calling for a free press in the Euro-Mediterranean area.
My proposal this evening is that we should engrave the freedom of the press into the marble of the Barcelona Process as an indispensable condition of our partnership agreements. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, today we are commemorating the 10th anniversary of the Barcelona process, and the changes that have occurred over these 10&#160;years.
I should like to draw the House’s attention to one of the former, namely the enlargement of the European Union to include Central and Eastern European countries, since it is my belief that these countries have something to offer as far as the Barcelona process is concerned.
All these countries also have strong ties with the North African countries, be they of a political, economic or cultural nature.
In some cases these ties date back many years, whereas in others they are more recent.
I should like to note that it is in our interests, or in other words in the interests of both Europe and of our partners in North Africa, to put the experience of these new Member States to good use, and to enhance the Barcelona process by means of their knowledge.
I believe that we would then be more capable of working together to resolve the problems that we are debating today, such as migration, the slow implementation of political reforms and, in a large number of cases, inadequate economic and social reforms. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, it has now been 10 years since the Barcelona Declaration and it is therefore time to make an honest and dispassionate review of the policies and actions of the truly historic initiative of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation.
Unfortunately, I fear today that the geopolitical regional scenario in the Middle East and the Mediterranean in general is not conducive to the implementation of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation.
The impasse in the peace process in the Middle East and the Palestinian question continue to have a determining and negative influence on Euro-Mediterranean cooperation.
However, I should like to comment on two main points.
It is difficult for the European Union to persuade our Mediterranean partners of the honesty of its intentions without significant financing resources and with a limited Community budget.
What is needed is a realistic roadmap and realistic priorities for the implementation of the objectives of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, I should like to draw the attention of the House to two issues.
I can tell the House that the new Member States are seeking inspiration in the experiences gained through the Mediterranean partnership as they strive to devise the Union's Eastern policy.
The establishment of a common cultural area based on human rights and democracy, together with the rejection of fanaticism of any kind, is our response to the jingoistic movements operating in the world today.
At the same time, however, migration can also represent an opportunity to promote the development of Europe and the establishment of an international order based on peace and human dignity.
The Barcelona process should serve as proof that such an order is feasible, and it should constitute Europe’s response to the threat of a clash of civilisations. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, thank you very much for this very interesting debate.
I think it is clear to all of us that the Barcelona Process, of which we are celebrating the 10th&#160;anniversary, is a very important and historic process, even if we differ somewhat in our assessments.
I have just come back from Lebanon, where we are working with the Prime Minister on his reform project, together with our action plan.
I was also in Jordan recently, where we will do everything we can to support the national agenda.
There are other countries where I am somewhat disappointed and where we need to work together.
We should not forget that they have the primary responsibility for developing their own countries.
The Euro-Med non-governmental platform presented its ideas in Luxembourg from 1 to 3 April 2005, and this very successful civil forum was organized with a series of national consultations and concluded with the approval of a statute and the charter of the NGO platform, as well as the election of a governing board.
I know that the British Presidency intends to give those NGOs the right to speak and I think that is very positive and enriching for all of us.
The Commission has been organizing three press conferences and a media taskforce will be set up in 2006 to work on this.
Those who are not pursuing reforms in their own countries contribute to instability in those countries and thus in the region, whereas those who promote reforms improve stability in their countries and the region.
Finally, may I say that I regretted very much not being able to attend the Euro-Med Parliamentary Committee in Rabat, but it was arranged on a day when the General Affairs Council, that is the Council of Foreign Ministers, was meeting and my first obligation was to that meeting.
The vote will take place on 27 October 2005 at 11.30&#160;a.m.
