How will this change the structures in our countries, for example, with regard to the bookshops in the regions?
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs for raising these questions.
Due to numerous objections raised about the initial settlement by Google's competitors, foreign governments (France and Germany) and the US Department of Justice, the terms of the settlement were revised and these revisions were submitted to the US Court on 13 November 2009.
Now, only books either registered with the US Copyright Office or published in the United Kingdom, Australia or Canada by 5 January 2009 are covered by the settlement.
Secondly, publishers from countries other than the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada will now have to negotiate individually to become part of Google Books services in the United States.
The process of digitising books opens up great new opportunities, but it must - and I emphasise this - must serve the interests of publishing and readers, that is to say, European businesses and consumers.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I welcome the action of the Committee on Legal Affairs in putting this timely question to the Commission.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the activities of Google Books, the European strategy of taking a slow, targeted approach and of highlighting the many concerns that have been expressed during the course of this strategy has simply been overtaken by reality.
On this subject, I would like to say first of all that when we talk about copyright, it is not simply a question of money.
However, the solution must be designed in such a way that the whole thing makes sense.
We have to make a European copyright framework fit for purpose in the 21st century.
Europe must seize the opportunity to take the lead and to ensure that the digitisation of books in Europe is facilitated, but also that the Google Books settlement takes into consideration European copyright law.
As you said, Mr Kallas, Europe needs to undertake a digitisation programme.
The idea of creating a European market for authors rights greatly concerns us from this point of view.
The public digitisation systems launched in a number of Member States should be supported and combined with the European project, Europeana, in order to prevent the private appropriation of public cultural property.
These countries are the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada.
In the first place, it will generate a one-off payment from Google of USD 60 to 300 for the right to scan the book and, in the second place, 63% of the profits generated from the e-book through the Google Books service.
Yet few people take into account the fact that non-British European users of Google Books, for example a Belgian or Polish internet user, will not even have access to those 20% of e-books.
Europeans will have free access only to the least attractive categories of book - titles which are in the public domain and whose copyright has long since expired, for example, books in the Bibliothèque nationale de France which have not been taken out for 200 years.
I refer, in particular, to Europeana, which we must strengthen and promote further.
The question is how we can use our powers, as the European Union, to become pioneers and not simply monitor developments in the private sector. (HU) This is yet another example of our migration from Gutenberg's galaxy to the digital one.
This is why it is imperative for Europe to devise its own clear strategy in this area. (PL) Madam President, firstly, digitisation is a huge opportunity to make our cultural, European and world heritage available to as great a number of Europeans as possible.
However, it seems that, firstly, this requires standardisation of the whole question of orphan works.
Probably the first copyright case in the history of the world took place in Ireland 1 500 years ago, when a monk called Finian invited another monk called Columcille to his monastery.
The High King heard the case and made a judgment, which was - I will say it in Irish first - do gach bó a lao, do gach leabhar a chóip, or 'to every cow her calf, to every book its copy'.
That is as relevant today as it was 1 500 years ago, because copyright and intellectual rights have to be guaranteed.
The next Commission will definitely take all these issues very seriously and this will be a high priority.
We are planning a framework directive on these issues - including collective societies, which need to be transparent and accountable to their members.
The framework directive will appear somewhere between autumn 2010 and spring 2011.
