Application of the Schengen acquis - Application of the Schengen acquis in the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia (continuation of debate) The next item is the debate on the Council Declaration on application of the provisions of the Schengen acquis, and on the report by Carlos Coelho on the application of the Schengen acquis in the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia. (PL) Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the Portuguese Government for the technical solution it proposed regarding the transitional period.
We must therefore ask why and how much longer we have to wait for SIS II, which will increase security and facilitate both judicial and police cooperation between Member States in this area.
The accession of nine new Member States is a historical step not just for Lithuania, but for Europe as a whole.
It was also a good thing that the Council of the European Union responded to the European Parliament's hopes, taking the formal decision to open the borders during the night between 20 and 21 December of this year.
In order to facilitate its implementation after the expansion in 2004, when we were having difficulties with the realisation of SIS II, the Member States demonstrated true solidarity; Portugal proposed the SISone4all version, enabling the borders to be opened between the 15 existing Member States and the nine new ones before next Christmas.
SISone4all, which is due to operate for nearly a year, will facilitate the movement of persons while at the same time having a beneficial impact on the countries' economic growth. (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement of Schengen is an event for all 500 million Europeans and, in fact, for the whole world.
The disappearance of borders is a powerful symbol for 75 million Europeans.
For me, it is not just a matter of what is in the Treaty and what it will provide or the rules that are applied; I see it as part of a process, part of an important process to include diverse European States - in this case two EFTA states - and help them to feel more integrated and move closer to each other.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is total consensus in this House that the imminent enlargement is not only historic but also highly symbolic.
I should therefore like to invite the representatives of this House to attend the commemoration, which will be held on 21 and 22 November.
This will be a symbolic journey through sites that were previously symbols of closure and that will, from 21 December, be symbols of the freedom that is the air and oxygen breathing life and happiness into Europe.
The result which is within our reach today clearly shows that the countries about to join Schengen on 21 and 22 December, and their citizens, really do deserve this Christmas present, as it were.
They deserve it because, whereas we have worked together over the past 12 to 15 months to overcome certain technical difficulties - and the Portuguese Presidency cannot be praised highly enough - they have played their part too.
They have overcome difficulties and shortcomings - in airports, at border posts and in staff training - which just 12, 13 or 14 months ago seemed hard to overcome.
It is of huge political importance because, from 21 December onwards, each Member State will regard another Member State's external borders as its own.
That is why this Europe, this large Schengen area, will not be a fortress but certainly will protect EU citizens from criminal comings and goings.
Furthermore, it is obvious for this reason that the Schengen system - currently the 'one for all' Schengen system and soon to be Schengen II - must be equipped with the best technology.
