Presentation of the Court of Auditors' Annual Report - 2005 (debate) The next item is the Court of Auditors' Annual Report.
Each annual report from the Court is the culmination of complex and exhaustive audit work performed in situ by our auditors over the course of the preceding 12 months at all levels of the administration of EU resources.
The audit work of the Court shows that in practice these corrections are insufficient and that they are not directed towards the final beneficiaries in all areas.
Allow me to conclude by setting out how EU financial management should approach these challenges.
The Commission, together with the authorities in the Member States, must ensure that there are efficient and reliable internal control systems across all levels of EU administration; that these systems, in turn, include sufficient checks which are properly carried out, reported and followed up; and that the systems in question are based on simplified regulations governing EU expenditure.
The main reason for this is that the Court of Auditors has found too many errors in the sampling of transactions in these areas.
It is true that we failed to notice many errors that the Court of Audits later detected.
Based on data from the Member States, the Commission possesses fraud estimates concerning two areas in which spending is greatest - agriculture and regional aid.
Thus the rate of fraud is marginal.
This also appears to be confirmed by the Court's audit work in 2005.
Mr Weber, Madam President, now that these comments on our weaknesses, the need for simplification and the level of fraud have been presented, I presume the discharge authority would also like to assess the impact of the errors on the 'price-quality relationship'.
This would not simplify the Commission's task, but it would give us all a clearer point of view!
The House says that 'substantial improvements are needed to the methodology underpinning the Statement of Assurance' and proposes, among other things: that the Court 'should distinguish clearly between irregularity and fraud, publishing separate figures for the level of fraudulent transactions and administrative mistakes'; that 'the Statement of Assurance should focus on giving a detailed summary of financial management in each of the spending categories and Member States' listing those Member States demonstrating poor management of European funds'.
I would like, Madam President, to continue on a more positive note.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Madam President, President Weber, Commissioner, this year we are once again being presented with the report by the Court of Auditors on the management of the Community budget and, this year once again, the European Parliament will pay the greatest possible attention to it, since it represents the most credible and reliable reflection of the state of the European public accounts.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DA) Madam President, those of us in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament too are, of course, unhappy about the fact that it is now getting on for many years in a row that the Court of Auditors has not been able wholeheartedly to approve the EU accounts and to give a positive statement of assurance as to their reliability.
There are quite a few areas in which progress has been made, but there are, of course, also grounds for criticism, especially in relation to internal policies, where the Court of Auditors' report shows that things have in fact deteriorated since last year.
It is unfortunate for this Parliament that neither the President of the Court of Auditors, nor Commissioner Kallas have spoken one word about the new financial perspectives.
We are facing a special discharge, because this is the first budget year for the whole of which, the enlarged Union has had 25 Member States, and that falls entirely within the current Commission's remit.
The first question is: On 7 November, when you addressed the Economic and Financial Affairs Council, did you finally make it clear to the Ministers that it is vital for them to sign off their accounts?
I should like to have an answer to both those questions, Mr Weber.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Today, Parliament has the pleasure of discussing the enlightening report by the European Court of Auditors about the spending of European funds in 2005.
It is a fact, however, that Europe is the proud owner of 200 000 virtual cows that receive subsidies even though they do not exist.
It is a fact that major errors have once again been flagged in the areas of olive oil, the export subsidies and the structural funds.
The Court has also confirmed that EU funds are held in the individual Member States before being allocated for use there.
The buildings policies of the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee and of the Court of Justice raise issues that also have to be addressed, and there are many other matters to be sorted out.
Only if this is done will we be able to give discharge for 2005. (HU) Madam President, the report by the European Court of Auditors, which, as in previous years, is the result of very thorough, high-quality work, states that the expenditure of the European budget has been carried out essentially with legality and regularity.
Now that the Member States have recognised, at the behest of the European Parliament, that the declarations they are being asked to provide are necessary, we can look forward to a very successful Court of Auditors.
The only real difference this year is that the Commission has been more strident in denying its responsibility for the mess.
We are a group of twenty-five and we cannot just give one mark for the whole of the class The 300 pages of its report contain references to Greece, but you have never said which Member States are mainly responsible for our not achieving the target or - if you do not just want to be hatchet men - which Member States are doing well or are greatly improving.
In your speech to the Committee on Budgetary Control on the 23rd, you said that 2 100 million had been recovered.
If we re-read the treaties, we will find that they state that the Commission - and nobody else - is responsible for the implementation of the European budget.
In response to some of the remarks, I would like to say that the Commission is not pointing the finger at anyone.
The debate is closed.
Lastly, the Member States must also assume their responsibilities, given that 76% of the funds are spent by national or local administrations.
It is in my view of paramount importance that the Member States undertake to submit their annual statements on how the EU funds that they manage are spent.
