President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) As the honourable Member will know, in May 2007 the Commission presented to the European Parliament, to the Council and to the Committee of the Regions a communication on circular migration and mobility partnerships between the European Union and third countries.
In the June 2007 conclusions on extending and enhancing the global approach to migration, the Council in turn stressed that legal migration opportunities, including well-managed circular migration, could potentially benefit all partners involved.
The need to examine these circular migration opportunities, based on the Communication from the Commission of 16 May 2007, was also reiterated in the conclusions of the June 2007 European Council.
I am aware that the Portuguese Presidency is coming to an end because this half-year is fairly short, but I do not know whether you think it will be possible for a specific proposal to be formulated before 31 December, or whether you will encourage the Commission to submit more specific proposals, especially with regard to the institutional aspects, whether the mechanisms we have today are sufficient or whether it would be appropriate to establish an institution of some kind to facilitate circular migration of this nature.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member for his kind words.
That would be our intention and our desire.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) This question of circular immigration has been or is being discussed and was rapidly raised by the Commission during a broader debate on the question of immigration in Europe, particularly illegal and legal immigration, and was one of the mechanisms referred to in this debate on immigration-related issues.
At next month's December Council marking the end of our Presidency, we would like to be able to present a set of conclusions on the general question of legal immigration and on combating illegal immigration, which signals real progress in these two areas.
In June 2007 the Council also approved the decision creating the European Fund for the integration of third country nationals 2007-2013.
The Council Conclusions of 18 September 2007 on reinforcing the EU's southern maritime borders, for example, encouraged Member States to provide support on a bilateral basis to Member States facing particular pressure, stating that such support can be provided at the level of return operations, reception conditions, case working expertise or voluntarily undertaking to take responsibility for asylum seekers, refugees, beneficiaries of subsidiary protection or unaccompanied minors.
Just as we all understand that when other issues affect one or two Member States they must be seen as a problem for everyone, so too in connection with illegal migration the appropriate word is also solidarity, since we are aware that these phenomena often affect individual States in particular.
That is the Presidency's role, and that is what Portugal must do as a Member State.
I am going to ask you something specific: Malta made a proposal in the Council on the division of the burden, on burden sharing.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) I am very familiar with that situation and I am very familiar with the issue the Government of Malta has raised in that regard, and your question is covered by the answer I have already given to a fellow Member: the Presidency is aware, and Portugal as a Member State is aware, that Portugal is also a country of the South, and we too will therefore do our utmost to ensure that the word 'solidarity' is actually put into practice while bearing in mind the difficulties and problems, which do exist, though like many cases this one also requires perseverance and persistence.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, I do not know if this is possible or within the regulations, but when the question is introduced I would like to know exactly which of the honourable Members is the author, because obviously my answer will be addressed firstly to them.
As I am sure you know, the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common standards and procedures in Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals lays down specific rules for the treatment of such nationals.
Article 13 of the proposal for a directive provides for safeguards as to the conditions of stay pending the return of all persons covered by the directive.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) I have just said that a proposal for a directive is currently under discussion between the Council and the European Parliament in which this issue is addressed.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, honourable Member, in the four years that have elapsed since the European Security Strategy was adopted in December 2003, the European Union's foreign and security policy has developed dynamically.
Since 2003 we have initiated 16 crisis management operations, four military and 12 civilian, in various parts of the world.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) We have just had a discussion here in this plenary session on the European Neighbourhood Policy intended precisely for our partners on this continent.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) As the honourable Member knows, the Council does not comment on speeches by Heads of State of European Union Member States.
The Council called for the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to accelerate the pace of reforms in key areas and to implement the priorities identified in the European Partnership in order to move ahead in the accession process.
The fourth meeting of the Stabilisation and Association Council between the European Union and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia took place on 24 July last.
Finally, I wish to state that the Council is examining very carefully the Commission report published on 6 November, which will be the subject of conclusions at the General Affairs and External Relations Council in December next. (DE) Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for your very comprehensive reply.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) As the honourable Member will understand, I cannot say whether we are or are not in a position to set a date in the coming year for starting accession negotiations with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, honourable Member, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, or CITES, provides the international legal framework for the conservation of tigers and other endangered species.
To underscore this need, the Commission published Recommendation No 207/425/EC of 13 July 2007, identifying a set of actions for the enforcement of Council Regulation (EC) No 338/97 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) The honourable Member will note that I have referred extensively, at length and in detail to the international legal and judicial framework in which the European Union exists and operates.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Very well, I must confess, Mr President, that I did not fully understand the second question, perhaps because of delays in the interpreting.
As regards the question of the tiger and dialogue with India, I must say in all sincerity and frankness that it is a specific question, on which I have not reflected, but on which we will reflect in the future, and I therefore take note of the honourable Member's suggestion.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) I agree with the honourable Member, the European Union cannot and should not be responsible for everything, and should not be accused of or judged for everything.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, honourable Member, in the conclusions adopted in May 2006, the Council welcomed the Commission's White Paper on financial services policy from 2005 to 2010.
On the Portuguese Presidency's initiative, on 9 October last the ECOFIN Council examined the state of play regarding macroeconomic, financial and regulatory dialogues with the Union's principal partners - the United States, Japan, Russia, India and China.
This problem should be and has now been examined and has been developed to an unprecedented extent.
I cannot tell you specifically what obstacles may have arisen or may arise, though I can give you an idea, as I have, of what the EU's policy and the Council's responsibilities in this field have been.
