Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote Mr President, I rise in respect of the Martens report, because its title, 'One year after Lisbon', gives me the opportunity to reflect on where we are, one year after Lisbon, in the European Union.
Maria Martens has identified that, if national parliaments in the ACP countries are not empowered to look at the country strategy papers and discuss them in a transparent fashion, then the funds that the EU provides ACP countries could be used in the wrong way.
Let us not forget: it is the wealth creators who are the key to development and not necessarily the aid organisations only. (NL) Mr President, I voted against Mrs Martens's report, but not because I believe that this report is entirely unbalanced; on the contrary, there are a number of points in the report that are absolutely and definitely correct.
This is fundamental and we should therefore be having a debate about that instead of just one passage being devoted to it in a report. (PL) - (microphone initially disconnected) ...
Over the past few years we have witnessed China showing a great interest in Africa and carrying out an expansive policy of investment there.
Twenty-six of the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union will ratify or have ratified it, and that includes the British Parliament.
The Irish people expressed certain concerns about some issues, and the Irish Government and Parliament are seeking clarification on those.
Leave Irish business to Ireland.
China and all of those countries will be very powerful. - (CS) Mr President, I would like to explain why I refrained from voting on the Hutchinson report.
The rapporteur says that partner countries do not always identify with development strategy but that state aid is the only effective instrument - and here I agree - although it should of course be more predictable.
The Commission and the European Union give a vast quantity of money to developing countries, the majority of which to Africa.
However, when we give money to African governments, as the Commission now does under something called 'budgetary support', we should also insist that budgetary support given to African countries be scrutinised by their own parliaments in a very rigorous way and that the financial agreements signed between the Commission and the African nations are open to public scrutiny and transparency in the national parliaments of African countries and the ACP countries.
This is a very important point to make in order to safeguard European taxpayers' money.
The diversity of the European Union is that all the different nation states have different cultures, different histories and different backgrounds, and it therefore seems to me important that arts and education should be a matter for determination at national level.
We are obviously in favour of transparency in the European Union institutions' work, but we are against the fact that this transparency can only be achieved solely through adopting the Lisbon Treaty and by putting this Treaty, which is already 'dead' for us, on the agenda again, with many such new reports which otherwise adopt a different position or deal with a different issue.
Turkey's membership of the European Union means economic and demographic death for Bulgaria.
The citizens of Europe in the Netherlands, in France and in the Republic of Ireland have said very clearly, in relation to the Lisbon Treaty, that they do not want that Treaty.
If, therefore, this Parliament and all the European institutions want to have dialogue with their citizens, which is a good idea, let them proclaim without any equivocation that it is dialogue which they will respond to, and that they will listen to what the citizens say.
We need active dialogue between European nations and citizens.
We also need that in this House, in the European Parliament.
We should be prepared to listen to different points of view.
There is a great irony in this Parliament adopting this report whilst, at the same time, completely ignoring some of the democratic decisions that have been taken in Member States.
Its idea of democratic dialogue is only one way: the EU does not listen to what people have to say and only tells them what they can think and how they can vote.
Mr President, after five years in this House, there is little in reports that can surprise one.
This report has been really watered down by those in this House who do not want to have active dialogue with the citizens of Europe.
For me, active dialogue does not mean glossy brochures, and I do believe that the Commission has failed in this area.
It has failed to get across a greater understanding of how the work that is being done at EU level is addressing many of the real issues that affect citizens' everyday lives.
Thus I welcome the declaration in the report that the population employed in agriculture should be the main focus of support measures under rural development policy.
I think the work done in this report really highlights the fact that anything we put on our skin goes into our system just as effectively as if we ate it.
Studies have consistently shown that the most effective and permanent way of influencing people's behaviour away from tobacco consumption is through taxation.
The other Member States have indicated they are willing to listen to the reasons for that 'no', to take account of it and to move forward on that basis.
It is they who do not accept democratic results, only the result that is convenient to them and not the overall situation of all Member States.
I am involved in such a case in Ireland at the moment, where a mother has fled her home country of Nigeria with her two daughters after her eldest daughter died as a result of female genital mutilation (FGM).
At the moment her case is before the European Court of Human Rights and the Court has written to the Irish Government either to defend the case or reach what they call a friendly settlement.
Recital 5 states that female genital mutilation constitutes a violation of human rights and that an increasing number of asylum requests by parents are justified by the threat to which they may be subject in their own country for having refused to consent to their child undergoing FGM.
I hope the Court of Human Rights takes our statement into consideration when delivering its verdict in this case.
I wish to express my full support for the attention paid today by this Parliament to such important issues as the right to health, the right to sexual identity, the right to protection of mental health and the physical and mental integrity of women, which is very often violated by these gynophobic practices.
Mr President, I would have loved to have voted for the Muscardini report on female genital mutilation because I have supported a ban on this barbaric practice for many years and I am also supporting a family's case because they are threatened with this practice if they go back to their home country.
However, as habitually happens, colleagues use the plight of mutilated girls and women to promote once again the abortion agenda by slipping in the mantra of 'sexual and reproductive rights' in this report. - (SK) Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague from the Committee on Culture and Education, Mr Graça Moura, for his work on drafting the report, which I supported in the vote.
It relates to documents we have already dealt with before in the European Parliament.
Linguistic diversity is therefore undoubtedly one of the most characteristic features of the European Union, affecting the social, cultural, and professional lives of its citizens, as well as the economic and political activities of the Member States.
I agree with the rapporteur that the linguistic and cultural heterogeneity of the EU represents an enormous competitive advantage and that we clearly have to support programmes for language teaching and school cultural exchanges. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Graça Moura report, I must say that our colleague has done an excellent job.
It is precisely for this reason that I should like to emphasise once again the very positive work done by our colleague, Mr Graça Moura, even though the other resolution, for which I also voted, was subsequently accepted.
My vote was not a negation of the Graça Moura report; quite the contrary. (FI) Mr President, firstly I wish to thank Mr Graça Moura for his excellent work.
The reason was that we would like in particular to guarantee the status of minority languages.
As they say, we in Europe are only as strong as our weakest link - which the worst-off people in our society are.
That is the opposite of what is actually required in all European countries. (NL) Mr President, I too voted against the report on multilingualism.
The report seeks, for example, to encourage immigrants to continue to use their original languages, something which is itself a problem in many Member States because they fail to learn the language of their host country satisfactorily, with all the attendant consequences.
I should like to speak occasionally in the Piedmont language, but in our Parliament's library there are no cultural documents, magazines and so on relating to languages of cultural identity or local languages.
We have been told here today that the report deals with 'certain national quarrels in Spain'.
I am very sceptical about using a debate on multilingualism and on the promotion of language as a sort of cover, or proxy, or political bargaining tool for the various national issues in all our Member States, and that appears to have happened in relation to some of the debate on this at committee and here.
In fact, I fully defend them and I really do feel that we must respect the right of our EU citizens whose first language is a minority language.
There has to be a place for these languages in the European Parliament, but not necessarily as official working languages, especially if these citizens happen to be equally fluent in English - as in our case.
I therefore abstained for these two reasons. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that I voted in favour of the van Nistelrooij report, but I would also take this opportunity, for the benefit of the few spectators who remain, to say that, if, instead of continuing to go around the European Union and around their constituencies speaking ill of the Union, those Members of this House who today so roundly criticised the European Union and its procedural method were to provide much more objective information, this would undoubtedly create a completely different atmosphere.
With regard to the van Nistelrooij report, cohesion policy was conceived along these very lines in order to create solidarity and to establish cooperation and, above all, in this time of crisis, I believe that the European regions - not only the nations, but also the regions - should cooperate, should strengthen their positions and should improve the quality of life of their inhabitants.
It is precisely for this reason that the van Nistelrooij report was very deserving of my vote in favour. (BG) I voted in support of the report on territorial cohesion because I firmly believe that this concept should be developed and applied as a horizontal principle underpinning all the Community's policies and actions.
The European Union's policies, and more particularly the cohesion policy, have transformed governance from an often centralised system into an increasingly integrated, multi-level system.
In this context, I believe that the fundamental principles of coordinated development and urban-rural partnership are especially important and must be strictly observed. (BG) I supported the report on territorial cohesion on the understanding that it is a policy which is extremely important to every region in the European Union.
It is also important during the planning stage for all the resources to be distributed fairly and for the principle of cohesion to be applied in all of the European Union's priority policies.
Taking into account all the factors which influence balanced regional and social development, we must find the most opportune mechanisms to enable us to give some of the new Member States at a lower level of development the opportunity to catch up with the rest.
In particular, I want to support paragraph 42, which calls for the establishment of real partnerships between all the parties involved in regional and local development at EU, national, regional and local level.
The involvement of local development groups and NGOs in the pursuit of regional development and territorial cohesion has been shown, time and time again, to add real economic and social value.
Member States and the Commission are not shouldering their responsibilities.
I would particularly like to talk about the Krehl report.
Under pressure from the European Parliament, the Commission has also drafted clear proposals for simplifying administration, and in particular it has introduced a clear degree of flexibility that will now enable everyone drawing down money from the Structural Funds to transfer resources between programmes and even to use these resources to cover loans, which is especially important for new Member States.
I know that credit unions are not strong in all European countries, but they are strong in many, with reserves in excess of EUR 40 billion.
Finally, a clarification on the Muscardini report: I believe we voted for and passed Amendment 1, where the term 'sexual and reproductive rights' was amended to 'sexual and reproductive health'.
I have cases of that in my constituency in London where community-led organisations have been crowded out by local government.
Written explanations of vote I voted for adoption of the report on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the Government of Nepal on certain aspects of air services.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg on wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg on a Community system of reliefs from customs duty.
I agree with the proposal for codification of the legislation in force in order to ensure that Community legislation is properly simplified and clearly drafted.
in writing. - (LT) Considering the growing complexity of financial markets and, in particular, the financial crisis, this optimised collection of statistics is needed.
I agree with the European Central Bank's proposal to partially amend the Council regulation concerning the collection of statistical information by the European System of Central Banks, which aims to strengthen the effectiveness of the collection of this data.
I wish to abstain on the report by Mrs Pietikäinen on the collection of statistical information by the European Central Bank.
in writing. - (NL) I have voted against Mr Lambsdorff's report as it does not make clear that the Member States of the EU would be best served by steering clear of the UN Human Rights Council if certain unacceptable passages in the outcome document from the Durban Review Conference are retained.
But support, or not, for a single EU seat should come at the end of a negotiating process - even if it has a logic - not at the beginning.
in writing. - President, I abstained on this report as I believe the UN is in urgent need of review and reform.
in writing. - (SV) The principle of 'one state, one vote' is one of the foundation stones of cooperation within the United Nations, and so it should remain.
We feel that these wordings are so important that we have chosen to support the report despite its shortcomings in other respects.
in writing. - Labour Euro MPs fully support the work of the UN General Assembly and the positive role it has to play in peaceful and positive international cooperation.
In particular, we support within this resolution the focus on increased positive cooperation on human rights, positive UN reform, nuclear non-proliferation and delivering on the Millennium Development Goals.
We voted to abstain on this resolution, as although we support many of the points contained within, we could not support a call within the resolution for there to be a single UN Security Council for the European Union.
Europe is not a UN Member State and, according to the UN Charter, only states can be members of the UN.
Mr Lambsdorff's report makes an important contribution to the European Union's involvement in the UN's business and transformation.
For example, the EU's fundamental values ask us to attach particular importance to the Responsibility to Protect principle.
In addition, my party and the other members of the PPE-DE Group regard human rights as one of the cornerstones of our foreign policy activities and a key channel for expressing our views at global level.
In order to consolidate the progress made in these areas, we must also promote human security, not only from an economic and social perspective, but 'hard' security too.
Last but not least, the proper operation of this organisation is important to all of us who want to see an assertive, efficient, multilateral mechanism whose actions promote these values.
By touching on these topics and others of interest to Europe's citizens, the report and recommendations from Mr Lambsdorff mark a step forward, which is why I am voting for it.
in writing. - I voted in favour on Alexander Graf Lambsdorff's report with a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the EU priorities for the 64th Session of the UN General Assembly.
European Union must take a leading role in the UN to ensure that our promises to the developing countries, which actually suffer the most by the current economic crisis, are kept, as unfortunately at the moment our actions have run short of our promises.
in writing. - I wanted to vote for this report on UN priorities for the 64th Session of the UN General Assembly because many of the priorities are worthy and should be supported and even promoted.
Its aim is to take dialogue and cooperation 'beyond development', 'beyond Africa' and 'beyond institutions' by means of greater EU-Africa cooperation within international bodies and in multilateral negotiations, on issues such as human rights and climate change.
I also support the request for a specific financial instrument for implementing the joint strategy, centralising all existing sources of funding in a clear, predictable and programmable way.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against Mrs Martens's report, even though it contains many sound and acceptable elements and is a relatively even-handed report.
The report says nothing about how that can be reduced in reality.
I voted in favour of the Martens report on 'One year after Lisbon: The EU-Africa partnership at work', as it reiterates the need to strengthen ties between the European Union and Africa, particularly in the current context of global economic instability.
I should like to highlight that the holding of the EU-Africa Summit in Lisbon in 2007 was mainly down to the work carried out by the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union.
However, we still have a long way to go to develop the Joint Strategy outlined on that occasion, particularly in the areas of peace, security, governance, human rights, regional integration, health and education.
The European Union needs to create a specific financial instrument for implementing the Joint Strategy and to meaningfully involve civil society.
in writing. - (SV) The rapporteur paints an essentially accurate picture of Africa's many challenges.
However, the rapporteur engages in detailed propaganda in favour of the European Parliament having a greater role in relations between Africa and the EU.
The rapporteur would also like the European Parliament to have a greater responsibility for the structure and function of the European Development Fund.
We have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. - I support this report which looks at the effectiveness of the EU-Africa partnership.
The report notes that very little new funding has been made available to implement the Joint Strategy and calls for the creation of a specific financial instrument, centralising all existing sources of funding in a clear, predictable and programmable way.
in writing. - (IT) I voted against the report by Mrs Martens on the Africa-EU partnership.
In this respect, moreover, greater efforts are also needed from the African parties to ensure that a broad spectrum of civil society is truly involved in implementing the partnership agreements.
in writing. - Good governance is central to economic progress and well-being in Africa and should be the first priority.
There is no mention of the fact that most African governments have been tacitly or openly supportive of the Mugabe regime in Zimbabwe, with all the devastation that that regime has inflicted on the people of Zimbabwe.
Fundamentally, I wonder whether we actually now need to invest another EUR 55 million in order to support the institutions of the African Union.
I also agree on the importance of being able to extend the principles underlying these contracts to a larger number of countries, given that the main objective of the MDG contract is to help improve aid effectiveness and speed up the rate of progress towards achieving the MDGs for those countries which need them most.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which aims to create Millennium Development Goal contracts between the EU and certain countries.
In fact, I only agree with some of the points considered, and therefore I cannot fully endorse the text in question.
in writing. - The EU must get behind the MDG wholeheartedly, but I voted against the report on the MDG because once again colleagues have advocated 'sexual reproductive rights' in the report.
in writing. - (SV) We Social Democrats believe that it is important to promote both art and culture within the EU.
Such decisions should be taken by the Member States themselves.
We have therefore chosen to vote against the report.
In this context, artistic education has become an important element in preserving identity and promoting intercultural and inter-religious understanding.
in writing. - (LT) The establishment of the joint motion for the coordination of artistic studies at European level is important.
Throughout history the arts have used the most progressive technologies of the day, and scientific debates have influenced many aesthetic theories.
Despite the fact that artistic creation cannot be restricted by the application of strict scientific and technological knowledge, technology, although it was not created for this purpose, can be useful to art, just as art can encourage research and improvement of technologies, applied not only in artistic activities.
In other words artistic education contributes to closer and more fruitful relations between education, culture, ICT and the arts in the 21st century.
I voted in favour of this report because I agree that there needs to be a balance between theoretical study and practical initiation in every area, including artistic studies.
The own-initiative report presented to us today, which has my complete support, enshrines the idea that artistic and cultural education, including education in the visual image, is a fundamental element of the education system.
It also emphasises the need to develop the training of teachers and other players (artists and professionals), in order to introduce an artistic and cultural element into all education and to ensure a high standard of teaching.
In this regard it refers to Europeana, the European digital library, which represents genuine added value in this context.
in writing. - (NL) What is this Parliament meddling in now?
In paragraph 1 of this report, for example, I read that artistic education must form a compulsory element in syllabuses at all school levels in order to promote democratisation of access to culture.
They have done so perfectly capably for the last hundred years and they will be able to continue do so through the next century without any need for being patronised by the European Union or the European Parliament.
in writing. - (SV) The June List believes that cultural issues should fall within the political competence of the Member States.
This report is not part of the legislative procedure and represents nothing more than the opinion of the European Parliament's federalist majority that the EU should increase its interference in the cultural sphere still further.
However, the fact that artistic subjects are taught differently in different countries does not allow, for example, the training of an artist whose knowledge and potential will be recognised and used in another Member State.
This method is, therefore, almost completely in the hands of Member States.
I agree that art is a manifestation of culture and helps develop a country's cultural wealth, as well as society in general.
in writing. - (SV) It is important, among other things, for artists to have the opportunity to move around freely, to promote the facilities for non-commercial art and to further develop European digital libraries to preserve our artistic heritage.
I interpret paragraph 9 concerning the nature and duration of artistic studies as a desire to also incorporate artistic studies into the Bologna Process and, with that proviso, I am able to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against this report due to the terrible hypocrisy contained in the text.
On the contrary, paragraph 5 of the report states, in a particularly patronising and insulting way, that the 'no' vote by women was attributable to a lack of involvement by Europe.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against this federalist and arrogant report with great conviction.
What arrogance to claim, as in recital B, that the populace that voted against the European Constitution is one that has an inadequate understanding of Europe.
I supported Mr Hegyi's report on active dialogue with citizens on Europe.
We can celebrate the importance that the institutions attach to this dialogue and the efforts they intend to make so that citizens feel involved in the European Union.
You believe that if European citizens are increasingly sceptical of the European Union, it is because of a lack of education, because of ignorance, or stupidity even.
A system whose policies paved the way for and exacerbated the current financial, economic and social crisis, and which undermine national safeguard or rescue measures.
We have therefore voted against this report.
Civil society will have to get involved in areas such as: good governance and democratisation, human rights, development of and combating social exclusion, environmental protection and sustainable development.
In view of the global financial crisis and the ever-growing level of consumer debt, active dialogue with Europe's citizens means that European institutions and civil society need to make efforts to improve consumers' level of financial education, particularly with regard to their rights and obligations, as well as the best practices in the areas of savings and loans.
Furthermore, Member States should increase the human and financial resources allocated to the European Consumer Centres Network in order to raise awareness and ensure the application of consumer rights in the European Union.
The report claims that the Treaty will increase transparency and involve citizens in decision making.
In other words: 'yes' to dialogue, and 'no' to the report.
in writing. - (PL) The debate on the issue of dialogue between the European Union and its citizens is very necessary.
Nihil novi: nothing new without the common consent.
True integration is not possible if our voters do not fully accept the actions of the European Union.
Studies have shown that only just over 50% of EU citizens are satisfied by their country's membership of the Community.
in writing. - The Hegyi report concerning the promotion of a dialogue with EU citizens is based on the assumption that people's sceptical attitude towards the EU is due to the fact that they lack adequate knowledge.
Various measures are proposed in the report such as education, Euronews and the creation of a museum of EU history.
Since the actions far more resemble propaganda than dialogue, I oppose them.
in writing. - The Hegyi report concerning the promotion of a dialogue with EU citizens is based on the assumption that people's sceptical attitude towards the EU is due to the fact that they lack adequate knowledge.
Various measures are proposed in the report such as education, Euronews and the creation of a museum of EU history.
Since the actions far more resemble propaganda than dialogue I oppose them.
Information about the European Union often reaches only its well-educated and affluent residents, which engenders scepticism and antipathy in other citizens of the countries of Europe.
For this reason an essential element in the further development of the European Community is the European education of its residents.
The Joint Parliamentary Assembly or JPA has become a key instrument of political dialogue as well as conflict prevention and resolution.
In situations of political crisis, our 'urgent debates' have enabled in-depth, constructive and taboo-free dialogue on the situation in Kenya, Zimbabwe and Mauritania.
On the great North-South 'horizontal' challenges, such as food security, effectiveness of state aid, and child labour, in 2008 the JPA adopted constructive, often daring positions.
The JPA must be at the heart of the provision of parliamentary control of negotiations and the implementation of agreements.
in writing. - (NL) I have just abstained in the vote on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, although with hindsight I wish I had actually voted 'no'.
in writing. - Among the most important tools of the European Union are the structural funds.
One of the most difficult areas to understand is how to access these funds in the fields of regional policy.
I voted in favour of Mrs Krehl's report on best practices in the field of regional policy because it contains an innovative definition of these best practices and examples of success stories, and lists very specific recommendations for all areas of EU intervention in this field.
We hope that these comprehensive recommendations will help and inspire stakeholders in regional policy.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Krehl because it highlights best practices in several areas, including in the area of the environment and sustainable energy.
As a result, it is vital to consolidate and improve indicators, thereby increasing Community know-how in this area, particularly as regards: respect for the principle of equal opportunities and assurance of the principles of partnership and innovative action; strict organisation of projects, effective use of resources and clarity about their duration; increased transferability of knowledge, so that this can also be used in other regions of the European Union.
All these aspects are recognised in Mrs Krehl's report.
I voted in favour of the report on the best practices in regional policy as I believe that only provision of sufficient, transparent information in good time can facilitate the distribution of important information about the Structural and Cohesion Funds.
A European portal translated into all the European Union's official languages may make a significant contribution to distributing in an appropriate, transparent manner information about the European funds and to exchanging best practices within cohesion policy in the regions of the Member States which have recently joined.
I voted against the report by Mrs Krehl on best practices in the field of regional policy and obstacles to the use of the Structural Funds.
I am, in fact, convinced that the proposals put forward in this report do not represent a chance to improve the operation of regional policy, which is an extremely important policy for tackling the imbalance in development within the European Union, and one which enjoys substantial financial support.
In particular, I do not think the exchange of good practices can solve the problem of how to use Structural Funds more effectively or can really contribute to the development of innovative projects.
in writing. - (SV) We have voted in favour of Mr Roszkowski's report, as we agree with the overarching objectives with regard to rural development and the diversification of activities to maximise the local development potential.
We have, however, chosen to interpret these points as unfortunate wordings with good intentions, such as the prevention of desertification.
I voted in favour of the report on complementarities and coordination of cohesion policy with rural development measures as I believe that these policies provide important pillars for national development, given the particular agricultural potential that Romania has.
I feel that it is important for rural development policy to aim at reducing the economic differences between urban and rural areas by identifying the typical potential of each area and encouraging the development of activities specific to them.
Rural development policies must be aimed at strategies which should not result in slowing down or stopping farming activities carried out by the rural population.
The European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development has been created as a separate fund from the Structural Funds with the intention of using European funding more effectively in rural areas.
in writing. - (DE) In recent years, rural areas have suffered not only from continuous migration to the cities, but also from the infrastructure being dismantled: police stations, food stores, public transport and so on.
This is why I have voted against the Roszkowski report.
in writing. - (LT) The fact that the legal form of a regulation has been chosen for the new edition instead of the directive in force is very welcome.
The other important goal is to increase the safety of cosmetic products.
As there were no clear safety evaluation requirements in the Cosmetics Directive in force, the regulation lays down the most essential standards related to this.
The adoption of the regulation means that, in Denmark, we cannot prohibit substances that we already know to be carcinogens, hormone disrupters or allergens, as this would be seen as a barrier to the free movement of goods, which is precisely what the legislation is intended to ensure.
From now on it must be demonstrated that the nanoparticles are not harmful before they are permitted to be used, rather than having to prove that they are harmful before their use can be prevented, which, in practice, is the prevailing principle in EU legislation.
I voted in favour of Mrs Roth-Behrendt's report on the regulation on cosmetic products (recast) as I feel it is essential to increase the safety of cosmetic products in order to protect consumer health, through minimum standards that must be met before a product is placed on the market.
In this report, the European Parliament generally agrees with the position of the European Commission, which has decided to recast Council Directive 76/768/EEC of 27 July 1976 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to cosmetic products.
The Cosmetics Directive, which has been subject to 55 amendments since its adoption in 1976, has become cumbersome and outdated, and no longer provides the necessary legal certainty in a rapidly developing field.
The current Cosmetics Directive and the proposal for a regulation lay down that only cosmetic products with a minimum durability of less than 30 months should have a date of minimum durability.
The rapporteur asked the Commission to produce an action plan regarding claims and adopt a list of criteria for evaluating them.
The proposal was intended to simplify existing legislation.
At present there are more than 3 500 pages of national legislation on the subject, and that is to be compressed into one text.
in writing. - (SK) As a rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I became involved in drafting the package of legislation on placing goods onto the market which was approved by Parliament in February 2008.
I worked on the report concerning the draft decision on a joint framework for placing goods onto the market and I focused my amendment proposals on increasing the responsibility of importers, reducing the administrative burden on SMEs, retaining the new approach as the basic framework for placing products onto the market and creating and using European standards in a more flexible way.
I voted for the Roth-Behrendt report concerning the proposed regulation on cosmetic products, replacing the current directive which has become unwieldy and outdated.
The cosmetics industry has in recent years gone through unprecedented expansion and the current legislation no longer provides the necessary legal certainty.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Roth-Behrendt on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on cosmetic products.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of the draft European Parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on cosmetic products (recast), because I believe that any product placed on the market must meet both quality standards and a minimum safety standard.
in writing. - (FR) Since the introduction of nanoparticles in cosmetic products, as well as the fact that the cosmetics sector features among the biggest victims of industrial counterfeiting, it is important to have clear means of control, particularly for identifying counterfeit cosmetics, which do not therefore meet legal requirements.
In this report, the European Parliament approves, with a few amendments, the Commission's request to amend Directive 98/8/EC concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market.
The Commission considers that this amendment has become necessary after an evaluation of the directive's implementation showed that the 10-year period, until 14 May 2010, foreseen for the evaluation of active substances used in biocidal products with the aim of including them on the Community positive list, would not be enough.
As a consequence, the transitional period, during which the biocides market will continue to be regulated by national rules, would expire without the Community positive list being established.
In practice this would mean that important products, like for instance disinfectants in hospitals, would have to be taken from the market from 15 May 2010.
In order to avoid this unwanted effect, the Commission proposes a prolongation of the transitional period for three years until 14 May 2013.
In case even these three years are not enough, the Commission introduces the possibility of prolonging the period even further by a comitology decision.
However, it also provides for a 10-year programme for the evaluation of active substances used in biocides, aimed at including them on a positive list to be set up by the Commission.
This proposal from the Commission amending Directive 98/8/EC on the placing of biocidal products on the market has become necessary after an evaluation of its implementation showed that the 10-year-period until 14 May 2010, foreseen for the evaluation of active substances used in biocidal products with the aim to include them in the Community positive list, will not be enough.
As a consequence, the transitional period, during which the biocides market will continue to be regulated by national rules, would expire without the Community positive list being established.
In practice this would mean that important products, like for instance disinfectants in hospitals, would have to be taken from the market as from 15 May 2010.
I voted for this report as extending the current transitional period will allow the completion of the evaluation of active substances used in biocidal products and give adequate time to Member States to transpose the provisions and issue the authorisations and registrations for these products, as well as to the industry to prepare and submit complete dossiers.
in writing. - (NL) Conscious of the need to dissuade people, and above all young people, in our society from smoking, I have abstained from voting on this report.
For certain products, it cannot be the market.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of Mr Becsey's report which recommends higher rates of excise duty on tobacco products.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the Becsey report because an extreme increase in excise duty on manufactured tobacco, as proposed by the Commission, especially in these times of serious crisis, would be damaging to employment in this sector in Europe.
In Germany, a study has shown that, in some Länder, more than one cigarette in two has been smuggled.
in writing. - Whilst I agree with taxation on tobacco, and a minimum tax across Europe, I abstained because of the damage it could do to the British tax on tobacco.
in writing. - (SV) The Commission's proposal aims to harmonise tobacco taxation within the EU in order to stem the significant cross-border trade in tobacco, which runs the risk of undermining the public health objectives of the Member States.
The issue of tobacco duties is a very difficult one to resolve due to the large differences in tax rates and views on the harmful effects of tobacco within the EU.
The WHO data are quite clear: female genital mutilation or FGM is a widespread practice in 28 African countries, in the Middle East and in some countries in Asia.
Approximately 100-140 million women and girls worldwide have undergone the practice, while 4 million are potentially at risk.
FGM represents a debasement of the European integration process, as well as being a denigration of gender equality.
The European Parliament, which for years has been committed to upholding the fundamental rights of all citizens, already adopted a resolution on the issue in 2001.
in writing. - It is hard to think of anything more horrific and primitive than female genital mutilation.
The Muscardini report rightly sets out our abhorrence at this brutality in our midst and suggests ways to ensure that our values of equality and freedom are translated into concrete action against female genital mutilation.
However, we must be prepared to link trade and aid relationships to improvements in human rights, and in particular to the outlawing of this repellent crime against women.
in writing. - (SV) We have today voted in favour of Mrs Muscardini's own-initiative report,, on combating female genital mutilation in the EU.
The report flags up a very serious problem and clearly illustrates the need for action to be taken against such a practice.
However, we would like to emphasise that the issue of regular, preventive health checks for girls and women who have been granted asylum in the EU because of the threat of genital mutilation is one which should be dealt with by the individual Member State, with deference to the rights of the individual concerned.
in writing. - I support this report which takes up the serious problem of female genital mutilation.
It is estimated that in Europe, some 500,000 women have suffered FGM and that approximately 180,000 female immigrants in Europe undergo, or are in danger of undergoing FGM every year.
The report calls for the Commission and Member states to work together to harmonise existing legislation.
in writing. - The practice of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) is one that, according to Amnesty International, touches the lives of 130 million women for whom, for cultural, religious or other non-therapeutic reasons, circumcision is a 'valued' social practice inflicted upon them.
Unofficially, however, I accept that it is still widely practiced, even in Nigeria.
in writing. - (SV) Today we have adopted a position on the own-initiative report on combating female genital mutilation.
The reason for our decision was that we believe that the original report was better.
The alternative resolution contained text concerning a requirement for regular check-ups by doctors for women who have been granted asylum because of the threat of female genital mutilation.
I voted in favour of the motion for a European Parliament resolution on combating female genital mutilation in the EU.
Female genital mutilation (FGM) not only causes very serious and irreparable injuries to the physical and mental health of women, but it is also a violation of fundamental human rights.
Due to the irreparable damage that it causes, FGM must be regarded by society as a very serious crime and must be vigorously combated.
It is estimated that in Europe some 500 000 women have been victims of this crime, which is why it is vital that the European Commission and the Member States work together to harmonise existing legislation in order to prevent and eliminate FGM in the European Union.
in writing. - (SV) Female genital mutilation is a cruel and inhumane custom and has no place in a modern society.
As the June List does not consider the EU merely to be a form of cooperation for the benefit of increased growth and trade, but also as a forum for upholding common fundamental human values, we have chosen to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of Mrs Muscardini's report concerning a clampdown on female genital mutilation.
During negotiations with third countries, the Commission must continue to attempt to introduce the abolition of female genital mutilation as a clause and it must be possible for anyone who commits the offence of female circumcision in any EU Member State to be prosecuted.
According to data collated by the World Health Organization, between 100 and 140 million women and young girls in the world have been subjected to genital mutilation and, every year, 2 to 3 million women face the risk of suffering these seriously incapacitating practices.
Immigrant populations must comply with our legislation and our respect for the individual and not bring with them these unacceptable and barbaric practices.
in writing. - Female genital mutilation is a practice that must be condemned by the Member States.
It constitutes a violation of women's fundamental rights, particularly the right to personal integrity and sexual and reproductive rights.
If a person is granted asylum in a Member State, she should have the same rights and obligations as other citizens in the country.
in writing. - Female genital mutilation is a practice that must be condemned by the Member States.
It constitutes a violation of women's fundamental rights, particularly the right to personal integrity, and of sexual and reproductive rights.
If a person is granted with asylum in a Member State she should have the same rights and obligations as other citizens in the country.
It would be better to take this opportunity to ask ourselves whether, for example, Islam adequately respects this fundamental value of the equality of men and women, and, if the answer is no, whether there should therefore be a place for Islam in our Europe.
in writing. - (SV) The original own-initiative report on combating female genital mutilation was very good, but the revised version, which won the vote, contained a wording in which the authors indicate the desire to introduce regular medical check-ups for women who have been granted asylum because of the threat of female genital mutilation.
Employing compulsion in this situation is completely unacceptable.
I therefore voted against the revised version.
Female genital mutilation causes serious and irreversible harm to the physical and mental health of the women and girls affected, it abuses them as human beings and it violates their integrity.
However, the resolution also calls for support for sexual and reproductive health.
This concept has never been defined by the WHO or by instruments of the acquis communautaire.
in writing. - (IT) On several occasions I have spoken out in favour on issues relating to multilingualism, so I think my position is quite clear.
The linguistic and cultural diversity of the European Union is a huge competitive advantage.
In my opinion it is vital to promote in practice programmes for language teaching and cultural and student exchanges, both within and outside the EU, as I did when I supported the Erasmus Mundus programme.
Linguistic diversity also has a significant impact on the daily lives of EU citizens due to media penetration, increasing mobility, migration and advancing cultural globalisation.
in writing. - (PL) Multilingualism in the European Union is a great attribute in contacts with third countries.
When introducing such a policy we must also remember that Europeans, while united, are first and foremost citizens of their own countries.
in writing. - The European Union spends colossal sums of taxpayers' money every year in the name of multilingualism.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against this report due to the improper use that could be made of its provisions by certain minorities in Flanders.
It is certainly valuable to promote the linguistic diversity of the youth, in particular, of the EU in every possible way, but a policy of that nature must not be at the expense of legal respect for the local vernacular.
I am thinking, for instance, of the Dutch language in the province of Flemish Brabant in Flanders.
The past has shown plenty of times how little understanding 'Europe' has of specific situations in the Member States.
I voted against the alternative motion for a resolution to the Graça Moura report on 'Multilingualism: an asset for Europe and a shared commitment' because, by removing the possibility for parents to choose the official language in which their children will be educated, in countries or regions with more than one official language or with regional languages, it contradicts certain principles that are upheld by the European Parliament.
Instead, the alternative motion for a resolution simply refers to the need to provide special attention to pupils who cannot be educated in their mother tongue, thereby devaluing the basic principle of the vital need for education in the mother tongue, not only for educational success in general but also for the learning of other foreign languages.
We therefore regret that the alternative motion for a resolution has been adopted, as this waters down certain aspects contained in the Graça Moura report, not least the defence of the mother tongue and the parents' right to choose the official language in which their children will be educated, in countries or regions with more than one official language or with regional languages.
in writing. - (SV) The June List believes that cultural issues should fall within the political competence of the Member States.
This report does not form part of the legislative procedures and represents nothing more than the opinion of the European Parliament's federalist majority that the EU should increase its interference in the cultural sphere still further.
We in the June List do not believe that a multiannual programme or a European Agency on linguistic diversity and language learning at EU level will make any difference to Europe's approximately 500 million inhabitants, except to burden taxpayers even further.
It is the Member States who, in their education policy, should motivate their respective citizens to learn languages.
We have therefore voted against this report.
The new report, based on the amendment and the supplementary proposal, will make it possible to change the rapporteur's original report as voted through by the sponsoring committee.
I hope that in the near future Parliament will reassess this procedure and adopt a fairer solution.
I agree with the rapporteur that linguistic and cultural diversity influence the everyday lives of citizens in a significant way.
It represents an enormous bonus for the EU and we must therefore support programmes for language teaching and school and cultural exchanges within a framework that also extends beyond the EU.
Exchange programmes for teachers at all levels of education aimed at practicing teaching various subjects in a foreign language help to prepare teachers who can then pass on their linguistic expertise to pupils and students in their home countries.
I would like to call on Member States to consistently focus on training foreign language teachers and at the same time to ensure that they receive adequate financial rewards.
in writing. - (PL) The issue of multilingualism and its preservation is one of the greatest challenges facing the Community.
A bad policy of multilingualism is based on favouring one or more languages and condemning the rest to marginalisation in all spheres of public activity.
Mr Graça Moura's report does not solve all the problems associated with the right of individual European languages to co-exist and with the resulting privileges.
Aside from official languages, there are also a huge number of other languages spoken in Europe, and which are threatened with extinction to various degrees.
What this issue needs is a sensible policy that is evolutionary in character, and I believe that a report in this direction should be accepted.
For that reason I have taken part in various initiatives that seek to promote and ensure full respect for multilingualism.
Multilingualism is and must be promoted in the name of an idea of respect for the linguistic and cultural diversity of Europe, in this case.
In particular, as a university lecturer, I strongly support the proposal to promote language teaching and exchange programmes in the educational and cultural spheres, such as the well-known youth mobility programmes.
I voted for the draft European Parliament resolution on 'Multilingualism: an asset for Europe and a shared commitment' because I believe that cultural and linguistic diversity within the European Union is a treasure which makes an effective contribution to 'unity in diversity'.
I also think that school and cultural exchanges, as well as programmes for teaching foreign languages in countries both within and outside the EU are beneficial and must be supported.
They are also more creative and have broader horizons.
I will not mention the obvious advantages of being able to communicate with larger numbers of people, who often have a completely different mindset derived from different cultures or people.
These benefits of multilingualism show that we must all give priority to learning languages.
in writing. - Multilingualism is a great asset of the European Parliament.
All EU citizens should be able to read about the work of the EU institutions in their own language, and Member States should do all that they can to provide the opportunity for all EU citizens to be able to speak other EU languages.
I definitely support the multilingualism of the European Union.
The multilingualism of Europe emphasises its cultural pluralism, which is evidence of its uniqueness.
We should pay special attention to the continual need to raise the competence of foreign-language teachers and to introduce new teaching methods.
The rapporteur emphasises the significance of giving help with learning foreign languages to citizens who want to learn on their own, noting at the same time the importance of the acquisition of foreign languages by elderly people.
I fully support the demands of the European Parliament regarding the multilingualism of Europe.
in writing. - (SK) The resolution on multilingualism is an asset for Europe and an important step towards an educated Europe, for it insists that the official languages of the EU are recognised as having equal value in all areas of public life.
I firmly believe that Europe's linguistic diversity represents a major cultural asset.
I appreciate the fact that the resolution supports the study of a second EU language for officials coming into contact with citizens from other Member States in the course of their work.
The Green Paper represents an important step forward in the development of territorial cohesion and the shared responsibilities of the Union.
I congratulate Mr van Nistelrooij on his report and, in particular, on his readiness to take on board the various amendments tabled on his draft report.
I fully support this report.
I totally agree with linking the debate on territorial cohesion to the debate on the future of the EU's cohesion policy, given that the reform of the latter must incorporate the conclusions of the former.
in writing. - (SV) In his report, the rapporteur writes that cohesion policy is one of the EU's most successful investments.
The rapporteur seems to be fully aware of this and, in paragraph 17, urges those involved in the debate on territorial cohesion to avoid all references to the budgetary and financial implications of the proposed policy: keep a lid on it, in other words.
in writing. - The concept of territorial cohesion is now recognised as a key objective of the Union alongside social and economic cohesion.
This report highlights the fact that territorial cohesion will be especially relevant for geographically disadvantaged areas such as mountainous regions and islands.
The Commission now needs to proceed with a legislative package which outlines concrete provisions and policy actions concerning territorial cohesion, in order to achieve it.
The debate on territorial cohesion is much more than a budget debate or a debate on Community policies; it is a debate on the guiding principles of one of the founding and fundamental concepts of the idea of Europe as we see it.
in writing. - I agree with the rapporteur that we need to define the principle of territorial cohesion more clearly.
It is also important that the urban dimension of cohesion policy does not compete with, but complements rural development.
in writing. - I support this report and would use this opportunity to reinforce the view that there has to be an integrated approach to cohesion policy.
I voted against the report by Mr Mikolášik on the implementation of the Structural Funds Regulation 2007-2013: the results of the negotiations on the national cohesion strategies and the operational programmes.
Small businesses play a significant role in creating jobs in Europe and we should make it easier for them to function.
in writing. - (LT) A successful European initiative for micro-credits could fundamentally help achieve the growth and employment goals laid down in the renewed Lisbon Strategy and create a modern, creative and dynamic European economy.
in writing. - (PL) The success of micro-credits in reducing poverty in developing countries, particularly in Southern Asia and Latin America, has not yet taken hold in the EU.
However, the need for micro-credits is great, especially among people unable to take out loans in the traditional banking sector.
A successful European initiative to develop micro-credits could help to achieve the aims of the renewed Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment and help to make the European economy more innovative, creative and dynamic.
in writing. - (PL) I voted to adopt the report with recommendations to the Commission on a European initiative for the development of micro-credits in support of growth and employment.
I agree with the rapporteur that small enterprises are an essential source of growth, employment, entrepreneurial skills, innovation and cohesion in the EU.
This report is vitally important in the context of the work that the EU is carrying out on cohesion policy and on cooperation and development policy.
I therefore voted in favour of this report, as any type of investment and expansion in this area is vital and urgent, particularly in the current context of economic and financial crisis.
In the current economic crisis and especially in countries like Romania, which are currently negotiating loans from international financial institutions, it is vital for banks to resume their main function, which is to provide the population with credit again.
in writing. - Microcredit schemes can help many of the world's poorest out of absolute poverty, in particular women.
