Annual policy strategy 2009 (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the annual policy strategy for 2009.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, I am very pleased to present the Commission's annual policy strategy for 2009, which sets out the main policy priorities envisaged by the Commission for next year.
This dialogue is essential to ensuring proper preparation of the Commission work programme for 2009. 2009 will be a special year, a transition year of great importance marked, I am confident, by the likely entry into force of the new European Treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon. 2009 will also be symbolically very important because we will have a chance to celebrate 20 years of the march of freedom since the fall of the Berlin Wall, so it is a very important opportunity to commemorate freedom and the reunification of Europe.
I very much hope that Parliament will be in a position to deliver its first-reading opinion on all the proposals flowing from the Commission work programme before the end of this parliamentary term.
We will focus on completing what has been started since the beginning of our mandate and make every effort to achieve the strategic objectives defined in 2005 and to address the challenges ahead.
The Copenhagen meeting will be a major rendezvous to reach a global climate change agreement for the period beyond 2012.
The key concepts for this social agenda will be access, opportunities and solidarity.
The year 2009 will also be an important year in terms of preparing the ground for the future financing of the Union's policies.
Let us work together to keep up the pace of action in 2009, so that Europe continues to deliver concrete results for the benefit of our citizens. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is producing its 2009 legislative programme from its strategic priorities of prosperity, solidarity, freedom, security and a stronger Europe in the world in a totally appropriate manner with our support, hence its priorities for 2009 of sustainable growth, jobs in an age of globalisation and a resource-efficient economic area with low CO2 emissions.
These are the common denominators for legislative work in 2009 and, Commission President, I wish to assure you of the express support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
If I were now to make any additional comments of a critical nature, these would be misunderstood in translation.
However, I do believe, Commission President, that our common aim - when I listen to your speeches and read your interviews - is that in 2009 we shall also continue to expand a social and ecological Europe in a globalised world.
Moreover, we can perform it only if we also reach our neighbours, if we create a common policy with our neighbours.
With regard to the Balkans, for example, we recently proposed that, alongside the Lisbon process, there should also be what is referred to as the Ljubljana process with the Slovenian Presidency, to promote the economic and social development of this region, because the hatred and existing conflicts there can be resolved only if there is also sound economic and social development in the Balkans.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I think I should present the compliments of my group on the policy strategy that President Barroso has put forward for what, as he has said himself, will be an important and challenging year.
It is, of course, also the year of implementation of the Treaty and, whilst we can welcome, and I do welcome, the concentration in the document on the implementation theme - and I think that the idea of working with the Member States in future to ensure implementation of law across the board in a much more coordinated fashion is excellent - I would have preferred to see something in the document about that piece of legislation that will be so central to our citizens, the citizens' initiative, but President Barroso stole my thunder by mentioning it this morning, so that is good.
This would be particularly appropriate in an election year, because we are indeed promising that we will be - I quote -'Putting the Citizen First'.
We are in an election year and we are in a year in which Europe has also very extensively committed itself internationally to climate protection.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, I love coming here to the regulation factory.
Because we like to tax and we like to regulate.
That being the case, at least have the courage to say that Europe will never be a democratic entity. (ES) Mr President, external action in 2009 should be marked by two fundamental facts: firstly the entry into force of the new Treaty which, on the one hand, establishes a new institutional framework in which, President of the Commission, Parliament will want to play its rightful role and, on the other hand, the External Action Service, which should, in our opinion, take up residence in the Commission and not be gobbled up by the Council.
Mr President, we will see the development of relations with China, India and the Asian countries, which are correctly set out in the Commission's proposal; the situation in the Middle East, in which the European Parliament unconditionally supported the Commission's proposal at the Paris Conference.
President of the Commission, you have our support for this programme. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, here we are at last at the launch of the political priorities procedure for 2009.
It is an important step because there will be many changes - a new parliamentary term, the establishment of the Treaty - and it also marks a new way of responding in Parliament to the Commission's annual policy strategy, since we have decided that the political groups will speak rather than the Committee on Budgets.
The margins available have already been spoken for and we in the Committee on Budgets do not know now how these priorities are going to be financed.
All the fears that governed the transitional arrangements put in place with the 2004 enlargement are now starting to dissipate.
Finally, I would add that, from the outset, this Commission was given a green light to address the fundamental rights of citizens, and I was looking forward to seeing something very specific on those issues in the plan for next year. (PL) Mr President, 2009 represents a year of enlarged prospects for Europe, prospects that will be offered by the Lisbon Treaty.
National parliaments should meet in COSAC and formally adopt the working programme.
Then Europe would be a democracy, instead of the mixture of the ideas of Machiavelli and Mussolini we build on today. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the principal actions planned for 2009 can mainly be supported, as regards the growth and jobs provided for by the Lisbon Strategy.
Heading 4 is of course underfunded.
Until there is perfect coherence between European foreign policy and its financial instruments, with the latter at the service of the former and not the other way round, Europe will never be the global player it wants to be, and in this regard I find the Commission's Communication singularly lacking in ambition. (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I assume that today we are holding a debate on policy strategy for the last time in this form because we are to have a new model in the Treaty of Lisbon.
A plan is therefore already in place, at least here in this House, and I am already looking forward to this new model because it means that we can include the powers of the Council in this very important debate.
Our advice would therefore have been to include this, too, in the Commission's annual programme.
It would have merited this and it would also reassure us that you think it is as important as you are now saying. (FR) Mr President, President of the Commission, Commissioner, as regards the European Union in the world, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament shares the Commission's desire to continue the work begun in 2006 to improve the effectiveness of the way in which it cooperates.
I recall in this regard that there are still very many areas being looked at, whether it is a question of the definition of development itself, coherence between different EU policies, coordination between donors or complementarity of actions.
Indeed, in Ljubljana last week Commissioners Hübner and Potočnik announced very good figures in this regard.
For example, the Nabucco Project - the diversification flagship of the EU, identified in 2007 by the European Council as one of the most critical projects of European interest - is, according to some, seriously threatened, if not dead.
The whole strategy must not be short-sighted. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, priorities for 2009: priorities are credible if we are able to point out how we have dealt with past priorities in a serious and efficient manner that citizens can understand.
But I want to draw attention in particular - and I would like some answers - in relation to page 18 and one of the key actions in relation to 'the wider world': 'If appropriate, implementation of the Doha Development Agreement'.
I wish it was not but I would like some firm comments from the Vice-President of the Commission to reassure my constituents that they will not be sold out. (PT) Mr President, all the signs indicate that 2009 will be a year of opportunities.
For decades we have been thinking about the challenge of the emergence of new economies and about Africa's new role in the world.
I would therefore like special attention to be given to these two areas in 2009.
Thank you very much. (CS) I would like to contribute to the discussion by pointing out that in the context of all policies there should be a more clearly defined space for small and medium enterprises, which represent the backbone of Europe's employment stability.
I think that, together with the resolution that you will adopt and the dialogue with committees and respective Commissioners, this will provide a very good political input into the work programme for next year.
Regarding the political agenda and the balance between the social and economic agendas, also mentioned by several speakers, I think that this is a very important debate, and these are precisely the questions we will have to take through the dialogue with the committees.
This has been a very good exercise and has been very much appreciated by the national parliaments.
After 2009 we will have no additional human resources, so we will be careful to tell you not to ask us to do a lot of new things, because we will not have the manpower to deal with it.
I also want to say to Ms Gräßle that, in the area of structural funds, the Commission has recently adopted a very ambitious action plan to ensure the integrity of the money spent in this domain.
This will guide many of our communication priorities, and we hope for a lively debate on this European policy.
