In my country alone, 350 people die every day as a result of tobacco consumption so it is only right that we deal with this topic at European level.
Commissioner, the figure in the average pub is 540 grams and after midnight at the 'Aviateur', a popular pub in this area, it is 1 730 grams, so you see how great the differences are and how necessary this is.
I am also very happy that the report takes a very positive constructive approach to the Commission's Green Paper, in particular on supporting the Commission's view that only a full smoking ban can adequately protect the health of citizens and workers.
First of all, a comprehensive smoking ban protects from passive smoking, it is a disincentive for people, especially young people, to begin smoking, it is an incentive for many people to quit.
To give you an example, I am just going through my notes, we have now only Belgium which has introduced them.
More than 600 000 people die of tobacco-related diseases.
Account has to be taken of these, but our ultimate objective in the longer term - to be pursued consciously and without hesitation - must be an unrestricted smoking ban, covering these places too.
To anyone who still doubts the need for intervention, I should like to point out that, since we arrived here in Strasbourg on Monday afternoon, statistically some 480 Europeans will have died from the effects of passive smoking.
I do not, therefore, agree with Amendment 3 by Mr Florenz asking for limited exceptions.
Finally, if we are serious about improving the health of our citizens, then we must encourage all Member States to introduce the necessary measures to make a smoke-free Europe a reality.
After all, young people are susceptible to peer pressure and, in addition, the harmful effects on health are greater in this group.
Passive smoking inflicts great harm on public health and entails costs for the European economy.
Each year more than 79 000 adults die in the EU Member States as a result of passive smoking, and there is proof that passive smoking in the workplace accounted for 7 000 deaths in the European Union in 2002, whilst exposure to second-hand tobacco smoke at home was responsible for a further 72 000 deaths.
Thus, it is tempting to issue a smoking ban at European level, too.
Recently, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, this House decided against imposing a European smoking ban at this time, instead opting to leave such measures to Member States.
Mr President, I should like to make some concluding remarks about the Directive on tobacco products.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish you a happy birthday, Mr Florenz, albeit belatedly.
Every year, it causes the deaths of 650 000 people, and a further 79 000 adults die as a result of passive smoking.
We are therefore very concerned about the amendments introduced by the rapporteur, because Amendment 3 would signify a definite dilution of this strong report by our committee.
Therefore, I hope that we reject Amendment 3 tomorrow and that we stand up for robust European health protection so that we can finally achieve a smoke-free zone throughout Europe.
Karl-Heinz Florenz has put forward a number of good proposals for action, such as tightening up existing legislation, deterrent notices on cigarette packaging, measures to prevent young people from starting smoking, measures to help smokers who want to be free from their dependence and, in general, measures to support the Member States in combating smoking.
However, I am opposed to transferring more power to the EU in the field of public health, particularly when the Member States are already doing a good job.
The smoking ban in pubs is a good example.
At least ten EU countries now have some form of smoking ban in restaurants and pubs.
Up to this point I join the consensus.
The text must be in black lettering, with a black border of minimum 3 mm and maximum 4 mm thickness, the font must be Helvetica, and so on and so forth.
Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, there is the hypocrisy of the subsidies for tobacco farmers, which even as recently as last year amounted to EUR 900 million a year.
This has now been reduced to EUR 300 million, but is still many times greater than the sum channelled into information to induce young people to stop smoking.
Member States have also committed themselves to this goal through international law, as, with the exception of Italy and the Czech Republic, all the Member States of the Union have recognised the protection of citizens from tobacco smoke in the WHO Framework Convention as a fundamental right.
Voluntary arrangements have not succeeded in protecting people from tobacco smoke.
Supporting a sales ban on tobacco products to under-18-year-olds applied within the entire EU area is quite a different matter from restricting smoking in private vehicles in the presence of minors.
To protect workers, though, it is absolutely essential that a comprehensive smoking ban be brought in in all Member States.
The Tobacco Products Directive should be amended to include the manufacturer's liability when healthcare costs are being financed as a result of tobacco consumption.
The number of victims of passive smoking is also tragically high - about 80 000 European citizens die every year owing to other people's bad habit.
That is why a total ban on smoking in the workplace and other public places should be welcomed.
The best present that the PPE-DE Group could give Karl-Heinz would be to let him withdraw the weaknesses in his own report that he has presented.
Parliament is perfectly right to call on the Member States to address this problem.
The point proposing a ban on smoking at work is incontrovertible.
When drawing up an anti-nicotine policy, therefore, we must examine the problem from a number of angles to ensure that the legal reality we establish provides effective help in solving the problems linked to the use of nicotine products. (DE) Mr President, I would like to add my congratulations to our rapporteur.
I join with all Members who want the Member States to respond quickly, and that is what we are doing with this resolution.
In the same way, the report stated that this policy should create an environment in which smoking was no longer seen as normal.
Put simply, the Member States have not given us that authority.
Some countries, such as Sweden and Ireland, have imposed a strict ban on smoking in restaurants, cafes and pubs, and in public buildings; others have provided for narrow exemptions.
The rapporteur proposes that Europe should intervene in the event that Member States fail to provide effective protection of non-smokers in the workplace.
I strongly support smoking bans in public places to protect public health and to avert the dangers of passive smoking.
For this reason, on 14 November 2007, I am launching a written declaration in the European Parliament calling for more research and resources for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
However, there are things that we can do here in the EU to reduce the harm caused by tobacco smoke throughout Europe.
The fact is that if the rest of Europe replaced cigarettes with snuff to the same extent that we have done in Sweden, 200 000 Europeans would be spared lung cancer every year.
Today the Commission ordered the Åland Islands to pay fines of almost SEK 20 million for failing to enforce sufficiently effective bans on snuff there.
The new fashion now is to promote smoking among young girls as a weight-control measure.
However, I must say that, even though the trend is very encouraging - over the last few years there has been a tremendous increase in countries introducing very comprehensive restrictions - the longer we wait to take measures, the more people die.
Nor does Article 152 mean that we should just sit back and watch people die.
We have to take a series of measures to achieve our goal.
So we can draw on those experiences and explain to Member States - and even Members of this Parliament - who are reluctant what the benefits are and how effective they can be.
However, at the same time - and I would be happy to have a more thorough discussion on this - snus is not a safe alternative.
One of the next steps should be to introduce a complete ban on smoking in all enclosed workplaces, including the catering sector, all public buildings and all public transport within two years throughout the whole of the European Union.
in writing. - (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, every year cigarette smoking leads over 650 000 Europeans to a premature death.
Yet 30% of European Union citizens are smokers.
