EUROMED (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on preparations for the Euromed Ministerial Conference on Migration.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the first Euromed Ministerial Conference on Migration will be held in Santa Eulália, in the Algarve, Portugal, between 18 and 19 November.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, improving migration management in the Mediterranean region will certainly be one of the priorities for the EU and its Euromed partners.
First of all, legal migration: we live in a world of increasing mobility, and well-managed migration is in the interests of all partners.
The need for workers in many Member States of the EU is already evident, for example, in agriculture, health care and tourism.
The proposals to launch discussions on these matters with our Euromed partners seem to me logical and timely.
Our Euromed partners are countries of destination, transit and origin.
We need partnership based on shared goals and on equality of all partners.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, I certainly welcome this meeting with the Mediterranean partners.
We are suffering the effects of illegal immigration from these countries, which in turn are also countries of transit for sub-Saharan emigrants.
Therefore we wholeheartedly welcome this Euromed Summit in accordance with the Ministerial Conferences in Rabat and Tripoli.
The Euromed space must be an area of prosperity, freedom and development.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these matters will be discussed at a meeting to be held here in Parliament from 6 to 8 December at the initiative of the ALDE Group and in conjunction with the transnational Radicals.
The problem is that our Europe has limits.
Sultan Hassan II pointed out the solution in 1987; let us now pursue it in the face of Europe's blindness.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, as everyone has said, including those speaking this morning, migration is a priority for the European Union and for Euromed relations.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming Euromed Ministerial Conference is without doubt important, complex and a matter of urgency in view of the tragedies we are witnessing in our seas on a daily basis.
The rate of immigration to Britain, as far as anybody can tell, is running at about 500 000-600 000 people per annum, with a net change to population of about 200 000 people per annum, adding one million people to the population every five years.
The subject of migratory movements is a key issue that must be placed at the centre of our dialogue, our partnership and our cooperation with the countries of the Euro-Mediterranean region, continuing on from the conferences of Rabat and Tripoli.
We also know that the subject of immigration, or migration, is a contentious issue in our dealings with partner countries to the south, who often reproach us for tackling this problem purely as a security matter.
I thank Commissioner Frattini for having adopted a much more global approach to this question, which includes the economic and social dimensions associated with migratory movements.
The Euromed ministerial conference on migration will be the first of its kind to focus solely on this issue and include the Euromed partners.
It is therefore all the more regrettable that no consultation with civil society organisations was held in advance of the conference.
As far as illegal migration is concerned, it is necessary to find a solution to the difficult situation caused by the arrival of thousands of unwelcome migrants, who have a serious impact on the security situation in Malta and Italy in particular, but also in some other EU Member States.
The offer which we aim to extend from the European Union is very challenging.
I agree with Commissioner Frattini when he says that what we are talking about now is partnership and no longer about cooperation; it is about partnership and the offer of complex packages.
We know that illegal immigration can decrease the GDP of several countries by up to 20%, whilst their economic growth is limited by the reduction in the number of skilled workers.
The forthcoming conference can be assured that Parliament takes this issue very seriously.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Madam President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council will take from this debate the firm belief that the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership must be developed and solidified and that it is right to hold the Ministerial Conference in Santa Eulália.
We will certainly have no difficulty in setting up a Euro-Mediterranean website with full information on remittances, including the costs in order to stimulate competition and reduce these costs, which is a central objective that unites us with our partners.
We first had to obtain the consensus of all 27 Member States; now we are consulting with our partners on the southern shore.
The fourth idea which I shall take away from this debate is how to move on, to put it a little bluntly, from final documents to tangible action.
The debate is closed.
