Preparation for the European Council (14-15 December 2006) (continuation of debate) on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I should like to welcome the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission.
I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for her contributions, not just today, but over the period of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union.
I hope that, at the Council meeting tomorrow, the leaders, the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission will deal with that issue most urgently.
These are the issues that we have to deal with immediately, not just for our own credibility but for the safety and security of Africa and the European Union.
Finland is to issue a report on the individual countries' positions after they have gone through a so-called confessional procedure, and the negotiations have taken place behind closed doors and under the leadership of a country in which two thirds of the voters are opposed to the Constitution.
The German Presidency will tinker further with the report and prepare for the Declaration of 25 March and the adoption of a Treaty text under the Portuguese Presidency.
In that way, we should all know the verdict of the electorate, and it would not be difficult to cobble together an agreement that people would welcome and vote in favour of.
Apart from discussions on the headquarters of the Galileo system, I would also call on the Council to confirm that the three year old commitment on prioritising the new Member States when it comes to locating agencies still stands.
The report of the European Commission published in November provides a good framework for this.
It is my utmost wish that the European Council this week does not focus solely on Turkey.
As discussed earlier today in the excellent report of my colleague Mr Stubb, it is the responsibility of the European Union and not the applicant countries to take care of integration capacity.
The only way things work in modern times is to combine social security in a new framework with competition.
It is understandable that membership negotiations should raise many questions and even doubts.
We have to take our time to wait and see how Turkey develops and how it meets the membership criteria.
The decision on EU membership for Finland more than 10 years ago was a tough one, and that has been the case for all the other new Member States.
Turkey is not ready to join now, but we have to admit that neither is the EU ready at present to accept Turkey as a member.
The first is immigration policy.
In Africa, the average lifespan is 22 years, while the population will gravitate towards large towns with high rates of unemployment and consequences in terms of humanitarian disasters, despair and migration.
I realised that their expectations were very high, but I also realised that the democratic process in Europe is still sometimes imperfect and that certain institutional adjustments are necessary.
I hope that discussion on this matter will be open and transparent, as the Council should be.
The Council also discussed ideas on the future of justice and home affairs.
That is the kind of practical initiative that will improve Europe's standing in the eyes of the people, and I for one certainly applaud it. (FI) Mr President, Minister Lehtomäki, ladies and gentlemen, the decision on Turkey - partially put on ice - was the right one.
The situation as regards researchers is very bad.
The bureaucratic barriers are huge, our training facilities are unsatisfactory, our economic growth is slow, development work is inadequate and the lofty objectives of Lisbon are slipping out of our hands.
At the summit there needs to be agreement, or at least debate, on throwing in a lifebelt fast: there has to be a dramatic improvement in the development of research.
However, the truth is that Member States cannot form a constructive opinion about the future without a concrete proposal for its renegotiation from the Commission or from the Presidency.
Therefore, could the Presidency assure us that at the summit it will expose the absurd contradiction between those two positions? (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to realise that Turkey is playing a game with Europe and with the negotiations over its accession to the European Union.
The democratic reform process is at a complete standstill in Ankara.
The revocation of Article 301 of the Criminal Code on the freedom of expression has been shelved sine die, and the Cyprus issue has turned into a dance of proposals and counterproposals from Mr Erdoğan, which in reality are attempts to avoid the fundamental question of ratification of the Ankara Protocol.
I confirm that my group is in favour of Turkey's accession to the European Union, but it is now clear that Prime Minister Erdoğan has decided to respond more to extremist nationalism and the Turkish Kemalist military than to Europe.
Turkey should understand that the doors to Europe remain open, but they remain open to a democratic Turkey that respects people's rights and the fundamental freedoms of all - both Turks and Kurds - in Turkey.
Unfortunately, this solidarity has not been very noticeable over the last few months and it was only the Polish veto, which blocked the start of negotiations between the Union and Russia, that resulted in more frequent references to solidarity as a necessary tool for solving the most serious challenges facing the European Union.
The German Presidency must not be the one to do irreparable damage by reviving a Constitution that no one wants, apart from the system, and I dare to hope that this Assembly is not just a chamber that echoes the system, but that it still aspires to represent the nations of Europe, nations that want to remain masters of their own fate on their own soil, that is to say, to be sovereign nations. (NL) Mr President, the Turkish Government has stated that it will not yield to what it itself describes as the pressure on the part of the Cypriots to get Ankara to take so-called unilateral measures in order to solve the problems between Turkey and Nicosia.
The fact is that it is unacceptable that a candidate Member State that has held a piece of territory belonging to another EU Member State under illegal military occupation for more than 30 years should become a Member of this Union and - as if that were not enough - should consider it fair to pass the buck to the victim, for this is what this situation amounts to.
The issue of the never-ending enlargement of a Europe without defined borders was an important factor in the 'No' vote when the Constitutional Treaty was rejected.
It is unthinkable that Turkey should still not acknowledge the existence of an EU Member State, namely Cyprus, which it has partly occupied for more than 30 years.
Finally, I must emphasise integration capacity.
It was a serious political mistake to proceed with successive enlargements without first strengthening the institutions.
The Treaty of Nice is just a patch-up.
The fact that the Council could not agree a prisoner transfer measure because of a veto by one Member State just adds to the long list of failures and inaction.
If Mr Solana cannot even bother to distinguish between the two bodies, perhaps our draft final report description of him as 'uncooperative' can be considered justified. (NL) Mr President, the Finnish Presidency has taken the initiative to hold secret discussions with all Member States about what they want to do with the Constitution, the outcome of which will be discussed during the forthcoming Summit.
The fact that the Council, the Commission and this House appear unable to accept this reality is a scandal that will continue to undermine the EU's reputation. (PL) Mr President, I would like to send a strong message to the participants of the European Council, which begins tomorrow.
It needs to have a clear and decisive position with respect to Russia.
The outcome will show whether we can count on its support in issues which are so difficult for us. (DE) Mr President, it almost hurts to see the Finnish Presidency of the Council, still spending hours in this place, having now spent half a year sitting there, familiar with the mantras of politics and of its customary to-and-fro, sometimes listening, sometimes not, and sometimes hearing things when nothing has been said.
I believe that one of the responsibilities of the Finnish Presidency and of the Commission is to underline what we have achieved this autumn under the Finnish Presidency.
We have a new seventh Framework Programme, we have finalised our decision-making with regard to REACH and the Services Directive.
At the same time, the Council decision makes it clear that the negotiation process can, and indeed must, go on.
So there will be no Turkey Summit, but I hope that the leaders who will be present tomorrow and the day after will nevertheless realise that the door to Turkey is, and should remain, open and that the Commission and Council will need to make an extra effort to do something about the economic isolation of the Turkish Cypriots.
Any progress in that area will also help get the Ankara Protocol issue back on track. (PL) Mr President, the forthcoming European Council summit will, to a certain extent, mark the official start of the German Presidency.
We all know that we have high hopes for this particular presidency.
I am therefore pleased that the Presidency-in-Office of the Council is aware that its role is to try to bring together wills and forge consensuses so that the European Union project can move forward.
From this point of view, the debate we have had in this House on absorption capacity - the subject on which we have just voted - is, I believe, fundamental.
I hope that, when you hand over the baton to the German Presidency, these issues will be clearly set out so that, in the near future, we might get Europe back on track again and, above all, enable our fellow Europeans to see Europe as the solution rather than as the problem.
Without a social model or a social dimension and without a directive on public services, the internal market will serve only those who are strongest and richest and will militate against what our fellow Europeans expect of the European Union.
On the issue of the Constitutional Treaty, we have to admit that we did not make much of it - we failed to achieve positive and tangible results.
On the issue of the failure of Turkey to implement its commitments towards the European Union, we hope that Turkey will be made to understand that it was Turkey that applied for accession to the European Union and not the other way round.
The European Union has to play a decisive role in finding a solution to the Cyprus problem based on European values and principles. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to the pessimistic and even depressing opinions expressed by some previous speakers, I take the view that Europe has made considerable progress in the past six months under the Finnish Presidency.
I should like to thank Finland not only for being the sixteenth country to adopt the Constitution but also for taking the debate on the future of the European Constitution further.
What we need now is also a clear position and clear statements from the leaders of countries like Poland, the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic that have yet to ratify the Treaty as regards what they want to do next with the document, when they will ratify it, and if they are not going to ratify it, what alternative solutions they are proposing.
I would like us to have such a statement this week at the EU summit in Brussels. (DE) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, today is not yet the time for a final assessment of what the Finnish Presidency of the Council achieved in the second half of 2006; that is something we will be able to do next week in the light of what emerges from the Summit.
I do believe, though, that we must not let go of one very striking point, something that has been a particular motivating force behind what we have been doing over the last few days, that being the question of what our attitude is towards ourselves and all the things we have brought into being over the last 50 years, and whether we are willing to justify them to those who are desirous of accession to the EU.
We must define for ourselves what we stand for and what unites us - I have just discovered that there is relatively little that unites me with Mrs Berès - and that is something we now have to sort out internally if we are to be able to communicate it to the outside world.
It is clear that further enlargement of the Union cannot be attempted if this problem is not successfully resolved first, because a European Union which is not functional is very simply unable to accept new Member States. (NL) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I cannot imagine that the Council would not say anything about the restructuring exercise at Volkswagen's Vorst plant.
CARS 21 is an initial step, although it strikes me as far from adequate. (ES) Mr President, I shall focus on two issues concerning the forthcoming European Council.
Firstly, enlargement.
I am convinced that it will be positive for Bulgaria and Romania.
I hope that the forthcoming European Council will also be aware of it.
I am pleased that, during the Finnish Presidency, the European Union has held ministerial meetings on immigration and development with African countries in Rabat and Tripoli, but we must move on from final conclusions to actions.
I am also rather concerned about the optimism I have heard expressed about the situation of Frontex.
Mr President, illegal immigration is a very serious problem, with far-reaching consequences, and a space without borders, such as Schengen, affects all of us.
The forthcoming European Council must promote this objective decisively. (MT) Mr President, I too will be speaking about immigration.
In fact, to be fair, I think we should say that this year could go down as the year during which Europe finally started to face reality with regard to the issue of illegal immigration.
In fact, we have started to witness the inception of common action: short-term measures that are just as necessary as long-term measures.
Thanks to this Parliament, we have seen a bigger budget allocated to the Frontex agency, which has a crucial role in this sphere.
Second, I think that integration capacity should be defined but it should not be a condition for enlargement.
In my opening speech I did not go any deeper into the enlargement debate, nor will I now, because we discussed this in the House very thoroughly this morning.
In several speeches, questions about a social Europe arose.
It is comprehensive in the sense that it will not be exclusively about border control or just about illegal immigration.
In the summer and this autumn we organised two conferences with our African partners on this, so that we might examine the root causes of illegal immigration in particular and get to grips with them over the long term.
Finland has been a Member State since 1995, and with the adoption today of the Chemicals Regulation by the European Parliament, Finland now is to have its first European Union agency, after more than 10 years of membership.
Finally, I would like to return to the debate on the Constitutional Treaty.
We have to remember that the bilateral consultations engaged in by the Finnish Presidency are due to the conclusions of the June European Council, which gave Germany the task of reporting on the situation regarding the Constitution for the European Council next spring.
As has appeared evident from this debate, everyone seems to have an idea about what others think.
We all seem to know very well what people think in different countries.
Mr President, as this is my last appearance in plenary, apart from question time which follows soon, I would like to thank the European Parliament personally and on behalf of the Presidency for its very diverse, even kaleidoscopic, but always excellent cooperation. (Applause) There is no doubt that, despite naturally differing views, this debate has revealed areas of firm consensus, which I would like to highlight because some of them are important.
We are looking to build a new consensus on the enlargement and, let us be frank, the Turkey issue is a sensitive one that strongly divides public opinion in our countries.
The fact that the Commission's proposal - supported by the Finnish Presidency and formulated in close cooperation with the Finnish Presidency at every stage - obtained unanimous support from the Member States via their Foreign Ministers was crucial because we could have had a very serious problem on our hands today.
It is vital that European leaders at all levels, not just the Heads of State or Government, including the European Parliament and others in positions of political authority at national level, hold a serious debate on the issue of the enlargement, regardless of whether or not Europe sees enlargement as a great opportunity, which is precisely what enlargement represents for Europe, politically, economically and culturally, and I would even say historically.
For this to happen it was important to 'cleanse' this debate of the most difficult issues that were on the table so that we could focus on the important business.
My job was to explain that, for example, Germany is profiting hugely from enlargement; that enlargement is helping create jobs in Germany; that Germany went from EUR 17 billion in exports to what are now the new Member States in 1994 to around EUR 80 billion this year; that Germany exports more to the new Member States than it imports; and that enlargement is creating, rather than destroying jobs in the EU-15.
Let us work to achieve a new consensus on the enlargement.
I should like to express my thanks for the positive spirit of collaboration we have enjoyed with the Finnish Presidency and I would add, in response to a question raised, if I remember rightly, by Mrs Ludford - because this issue was not mentioned in my first speech - that the Commission vehemently condemns this so-called conference on the holocaust held in Teheran.
On this issue too, we need to uphold a position of principle.
The debate is closed.
Equally symptomatic is the way in which social and environmental issues are played down and no mention is made of reviewing the status and guidelines of the European Central Bank, in spite of the dire consequences of its policy on the most fragile economies, families and micro-, small and medium sized enterprises. (PT) Just a couple of comments in the 200 words available to me ...
