Type-approval of motor vehicles and engines (debate) - The next item is the report by Mr Groote on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines with respect to emissions from heavy-duty vehicles (Euro VI) and on access to vehicle repair and maintenance information - C6-0007/2008 -.
I would also like to thank the French Presidency for the fact that we have now been able to conclude this legislative process with a compromise, to which this Presidency made a major contribution.
Tomorrow, the European Parliament will vote on the compromise package on the Euro 6 emissions standards for heavy-duty vehicles.
Euro 6 is an important instrument in improving air quality in Europe.
In particular, Euro 6 reduces fine particulates and nitrogen oxides: fine particulates alone are responsible for more than 348 000 premature deaths in Europe, which is why I would perhaps have hoped for a more ambitious limit here.
In comparison with the current emissions standard 6, which has been applicable since 1 October 2008, we will achieve a 66% reduction for fine particulates alone, and of more than 80% for nitrogen oxides.
By and large, we have reached a satisfactory compromise; this instrument will undoubtedly improve both air quality and quality of life.
Two years ago almost to the day, we debated and adopted the Euro 5 and Euro 6 emissions limits for passenger cars here in this House.
I am therefore delighted that the Commission is now surely about to make a statement saying that we can count on having implementing measures by the end of March 2010 at the latest, that is to say on 1 April 2010.
We noted then that there had been a drastic reduction in the number of units sold in the commercial vehicles sector, and I am therefore pleased that we have managed, with the legislation now before us, to create an instrument that will allow the Member States to grant tax incentives for the early introduction of the Euro 6 emissions standard.
The limit values under the Euro VI standards, which form part of this overall strategy, are significantly reducing the emissions of soot particles and of nitrogen oxides once again in comparison with the Euro V phase, which entered into force on 1 October this year.
The new Euro VI regulation for heavy-duty vehicles and buses is one of the measures we have been calling for.
The new Euro VI standard will thus reduce emissions of fine particulates from diesel heavy-duty vehicles and buses by 66% as compared with the Euro V standard, while in petrol-driven vehicles nitrogen (NOx) emissions will be reduced by a further 80%.
If we want to ensure functional competition in the field of repair work we must guarantee this access, and in this regulation we have managed to achieve that.
All in all, environmental protection must not be sacrificed at the altar of the economic crisis and it is a good thing that we have a report before us that very much points to the future and contains very ambitious targets - such as a 66% reduction in the case of PM10 and an 80% reduction in the case of NOx.
For this reason what is needed is big-picture thinking, and I also believe that transport in general is in need of a fundamental overhaul.
We in the Tyrol have discovered that the existing measurement methods are actually a failure and that, in practice, the difference between a Euro 0 and a Euro III or Euro IV heavy-duty vehicle was really small.
The Commission has proposed a 60% reduction in particulate emissions and an 80% reduction in nitrogen oxides for compression ignition engines.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Mr President, if we adopt Euro VI for heavy-duty vehicles tomorrow, we will be doing so in a very good tradition.
Mr President, the report by Mr Groote on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines aimed at reducing pollution by heavy-duty vehicles is very important in terms of both environmental protection and the citizens' health.
As regards new vehicles failing to comply with the provisions of this Regulation, national bodies will no longer accept certificates of compliance from 1 October 2014.
The notion of Union legislation having the same effect in all Member States and serving all their interests is proving to be a myth.
I consider this issue to be a vital element of the document before us. - (CS) It is clear that not only passenger vehicles but also heavy goods vehicles must be fitted with modern systems ensuring an 80% reduction in emissions of carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxide as well as a reduction in particulate emissions of up to 60 %.
Failing this, Euro VI will not make a significant contribution to improvements in air quality.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for this engaged debate.
As a first point, I would like to thank the Commission, in the person of Commissioner Verheugen, for reading out the declaration on the implementing measures here in the House today.
I do not see it like that, as the Euro standard and the Euro exhaust gas standard have been a success story and technical innovations have always fuelled the market and energised consumers to buy new vehicles.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 16 December 2008.
