Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank Parliament for its continued interest in product safety issues, and for this opportunity to give you a short presentation on the first results of the product safety stocktaking, released on 22 November 2007.
I attended the IMCO Committee meeting on 26 November and I am now pleased to address the European Parliament meeting in plenary.
We have this right under Article 13 of the General Product Safety Directive.
In October 2007, Member States reported on initiatives for better cooperation with economic operators and on specific surveillance campaigns on toys.
The Commission also continues concretely to reinforce the market surveillance capacity of the Member States by participating in the financing of well-designed joint market surveillance projects (which in 2007 will receive EUR 1.3 million in Community funding).
Statistics show that products of unknown origin notified through RAPEX were down for the first time in October 2007, standing at 3% as compared to 17% in 2006.
The Commission also consistently highlights the responsibility of economic operators for product safety.
I will also send experts to carry out a study of business safety measures in the supply chain, and report further on this in the first quarter of 2008, because in the era of globalisation we are only as strong as the weakest part of our chain.
I found my recent web chat under the topic 'Have a Safe Christmas' (which I very much enjoyed) most enlightening and engaging, and answered nearly 50 interesting questions.
Finally, our product safety concerns were communicated to the Chinese leaders at the EU-China Summit on 28 November 2007.
We are now in December and we know we shall not have it.
I hope it will be available not in December 2008, but by this January at the latest, because it is urgent.
The second matter, Commissioner, is that the Member States also have to fulfil their obligations.
There is, in fact, a very profitable market in products that are a health hazard, a market that makes staggering amounts of money each year and that finds endless routes and subterfuges for legalising what is in reality illegal and harmful.
The safety of children demands immediate action by the Commission.
I therefore welcome Commissioner Kuneva's reassurance that she will be working with the Member States to reinforce their capacity to inspect, to test and also to stop dangerous consignments, which can be properly identified because flows of information have been established.
There are many other countries that are sourcing products.
And I want to add, Commissioner, that in recent raids in my own region - in Manchester - over 20 000 illegal and counterfeit toys were seized, with a value of EUR 150 000.
But it has to be said that your action has got results; we have now seen 93 bans from China itself and, since July, 184 more investigations, which means that we are seeing less dangerous toys leaving China's borders.
We can see, for example in the US, that we have bans for under-threes on some toys and we have warnings for over-six-year-olds; they complain that they are importing our dangerous toys from the European market, so perhaps we need to follow the US model in this area.
The new approach implies that the equivalent standardisation committees are active.
We must check as a matter of urgency when we are revising the Toy Safety Directive whether this new approach really is the right way or whether it is not considerably more important for European legislators to lay down standards right now in the toy sector, because toys appeal mainly to children and children must be given special protection.
I should also like to point out that we have underlined the responsibility of importers when revising the product package.
I hope that you and the Commission will also be supporting this in the trialogue.
The firt one is your answer during the discussion on this issue at IMCO Committee, which was too general, in my opinion.
And the third reason is the following: I would like to specially draw your attention to the Christensen Report adopted in 2005 on the integration of the new Member States in the consumer protection system supplementing the internal market regime in the European Community.
To give just one example: every day 40 000 goods containers enter Spain; many thousands of those containers carry toys.
In its resolution of 26 September on the safety of products and especially toys, the European Parliament urged the Commission and the Member States to take measures to ensure that consumer goods sold do not pose a risk to health.
I cannot comment on something which comes under the responsibility of Vice-President Verheugen, as the Toys Directive is part of his portfolio, although we enjoy excellent cooperation.
Article 1 of the General Product Safety Directive states that all producers should only produce safe goods, and that whoever places a good on the market for the first time - be it the importer, the retailer or the producer - should check the safety of toys, for which he is liable.
With reference to Ms Iotova, I would like to answer in Bulgarian because it was in that language that she put her question. (BG) My answer was very specific according to the standards of the Commission.
I can tell you, Mme Iotova, that the Bulgarian market has 180 inspectors.
