Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 15 December 2000.
The European Union has already shown its solidarity by sending a rescue team to the area, whilst financial assistance from the Union and Member States has been, or is in the process of being, released and I am able to inform you that some groups in the European Parliament have requested that this issue be included in the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance on Thursday.
However, I should like to inform you that I have, of course, on behalf of the European Union, expressed our sincere condolences and deepest sympathy to the President of El Salvador in the tragedy which has struck his country.
Tragically, on 31 December, a day that most of us commemorate with celebration, became a day of mourning for the families of Volendam, in the Netherlands, who lost 10 of their young people on New Year' s Eve.
I should also like to wish the 180 people injured in this awful fire a speedy recovery.
It is in the same spirit that I should like to express my condolences to the families of the 309 victims of the fire at a disco in Luoyang, in China, and I would ask you to observe a minute' s silence in honour of these victims. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) President.
Unfortunately, on 20 December, Juan Miguel Gervilla, a police officer in Barcelona, was killed by terrorists.
Therefore, we would ask the House for a prorogation of the delay of a maximum of two months in order to conclude the dialogue and, we hope, present to you compromise amendments for voting at our part-session on 28 February. (Parliament approved the request) Agenda The next item is the final draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Tuesday 11 January.
Sittings from 15 to 18 January in Strasbourg President.
Thank you, Mr Dell' Alba.
Not only is Wednesday' s agenda completely overbooked, but important reports - such as the Sjöstedt report on natural habitats, as well as others - are being handled without debate, which is wrong to my mind.
A major debate has been scheduled for that day and the Conference of Presidents has decided to include a Commission statement on the Fisheries Agreement with Morocco without a resolution.
Furthermore, in accordance with the debate' s agenda, the normal course of action would be for the joint debate on the four reports to take place and then for the Commission' s statement to be made and a further debate on this to take place.
Since it no longer appears possible for events to take place in this way, because the political groups have already distributed Members' speaking times, I would ask that, in this case, the Commission statement should be the first item so that Members may speak in the debate and so that the Commission statement is not made in the middle of the debate, which would prevent all Members from being in an equal position to respond to this statement by the Commission.
We did so for a very simple reason: in the last few days we have seen Commissioner Fischler suspend negotiations on live television; Mr Prodi - I do not know if he is still in Morocco - has submitted a new proposal and restarted negotiations; some Ministers for Agriculture or Fisheries, including the Spanish Minister, have also made statements, and it makes sense that we should be able to debate this issue and that we should be at least as well informed - we are not asking for a resolution - as television newsreaders.
This really is the most appropriate time, when we are discussing the future of our fisheries policy on the basis of four reports, for the Commission to make this statement.
Thank you, Mr Barón Crespo.
Thank you, Mr Colom i Naval.
This is why I propose an urgent debate on this matter.
I would also like to point out - although I was unable to participate in the Conference of Presidents in person, owing to our European People' s Party Congress, my colleague, James Provan, was there to represent me - that the issue has already been voted on in the Conference of Presidents and so there is no need for it to be raised once again.
Danone and similar situations, to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs so that we can then conduct a more general debate on this.
Therefore, if all Members are in agreement, I would certainly wish to refer this matter to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Mr Wurtz, should I assume then that you wish to withdraw the current proposal to replace item 5 in the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance with this point?
Holding this debate would allow us to reaffirm that all the measures that have been adopted in North African countries, Algeria in particular, to fight relentlessly against child murderers and their accomplices have the overwhelming support of the Members of the European Parliament.
Thank you, Mr Seppänen.
I have received no requests for amendments to the agenda for the Brussels part-session of 31 January and 1 February.
I draw your attention to the fact that alarming events have been taking place in Moscow in the past 24 hours, mainly aimed at the independent media and the freedom of the press.
Madam President, could we take this matter into consideration?
Madam President, if I recall correctly, following the resolution on Tunisia which we adopted in December, President Ben Ali was supposed to have sent you, shall we say, a letter of courtesy.
this morning, I found myself in the good company of 24 other MEPs, staff and one Commissioner at Schiphol airport.
Mr Alyssandrakis, we shall see what we can do about this.
Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Council - not for the first time, I might add - has contravened the Rules of Procedure.
I think that it is wrong that neither we nor the bureau have as yet protested against this situation in stronger, more categorical terms; our silence makes the whole of mankind feel that both the European Parliament and the European Union are accessories to this crime.
Madam President, with the New Year we have learned through the Spanish Boletín Oficial del Estado that eleven policemen and three guardías civiles who had already been sentenced as torturers had been pardoned by the Spanish Government.
On the contrary, many officials are promoted because of such activities.
Madam President, has it been brought to your attention that the Members' register of interests was last week published on an Internet site, www.mpt2001.co.uk?
Madam President, I also regret that a British comedy programme sought to make light of Parliament and would point out that my own group has, of course, already published its register of interests on the Internet.
Madam President, the European Commission tabled a proposal for a directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the reorganisation and the winding-up of credit institutions back in 1985.
As rapporteur, I have taken great pride in rendering legislation on this particularly important subject matter as clearly and transparently as possible.
All our amendments pertain to Article 20, which deals with the exceptions to the rule.
I would appeal to the House that in some ways it is more important to get a clear answer than to get one that suits everyone; one that is absolutely perfect in every respect.
The issue has long been problematic, mainly because of the national differences at governmental level, rather than the issues directly originating from Parliament, but compromises produced in Parliament have been both efficient and expedient in terms of their approach and are very welcome.
Similarly the rights of creditors in Member States other than their own are safeguarded by the assurances of cooperation between the relevant authorities in the Member States, but let us be clear, in case some of you have not read the document, this is not about harmonisation, it is about mutual recognition of Member States' reorganisation measures and winding up procedures.
Amendments Nos 1 and 2 bring the text into line with the insolvency regulation and the insurance winding-up proposals which had already been agreed last summer: this confirms Parliament's desire, therefore, to see a degree of coherence in this matter.
You will already have noticed in the course of the debate that we differ on one point, specifically in relation to Amendments Nos 3 and 5.
I would point out that the Commission' s first proposal was published as early as 1985 and Parliament' s first reading was held back in 1987.
Mr President, the market and national authorities have been looking forward to the directive on the reorganisation and the winding-up of credit institutions coming into effect for some time now.
This directive spearheads the action plan for financial services.
The debate is closed.
While I welcome the SLIM project, which the Commission launched in 1996 and which is under discussion this evening, as I stated in my report, it is too little too late.
Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein, ladies and gentlemen, the simpler legislation for the internal market initiative is one of the most important processes now underway in the Union.
The Commission communication on the present state of the SLIM project is very gratifying, but by no means fully adequate, as yet.
We members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in particular await with interest the proposals by the Lamfalussy working party on new courses of action that are to be applied in the future, at least with regard to legislation on financial services.
There are surprisingly few areas which have been subject to the SLIM process and it is not always clear why those particular areas have been selected.
We often find the greatest problem is not the original legislation but how it has been transposed by Member States and the speed at which they have transposed it, how they have implemented it and how they have enforced it.
As part of this on-going determination by the Commission to simplify legislation, I would like to see much greater cooperation between Member States and the Commission about the whole life of legislation and, particularly, involvement with the people who have prime responsibility for enforcing the legislation, who are often local and regional actors.
But the SLIM process ought to go much further.
However, rather than criticise the Commission more than the rapporteur has already done, rather even than refer just to the four committees involved in this particular issue, I should like to highlight one issue the rapporteur also raised, which is that it is really entirely up to us, as Members of this House, to ensure that legislation is better in the first place.
That particular subject came up in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Mr President, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and say that the proposals on the simplification of legislation in the internal market that were launched in 1996 are very welcome.
So we are in favour, but there are two things we want to add.
It can only devalue our work in the European Parliament if claims can be made, for example, that the end-of-vehicle-life directive will cost us £400m a year in terms of the cost to the producers and the consumers but will only deliver £100m a year of benefit to the environment.
Our review of the SLIM initiative and this report have demonstrated where and how the initiative can be improved.
Consequently, in tandem with the representatives of the Member States, we are, in this connection, looking forward to making and implementing important recommendations under the wing of a newly established internal market Advisory Committee.
That is an important matter which also merits much attention in this Parliament.
In response to the appeal made at the European Council in Lisbon, to reach a coordinated policy so as to simplify the legislative climate, the Commission is currently subjecting its position on legislation in general to a thorough investigation in the widest sense of the word.
I am convinced that the current political consensus in aid of a better legislative climate within the European Union will lead to real and permanent improvements.
The debate is closed.
The recommendations are now clear in the amendments tabled by the MEPs and myself as rapporteur.
Mr President, this report is strongly supported by the PPE-DE Group.
Therefore, any attempts to improve standards in our schools must be welcomed with open arms.
This report seeks a balance between the need for adequate preparation in both those fields.
Mr President, Commissioner, education is assuming an ever more important role in the European strategy.
Systematic quality evaluation in education is still in its infancy in many EU countries.
A report on the subject prepared in Helsinki last week shows that evaluation is not yet adequately systematic in nature, although it has got off to a brisk start.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, education is one of those areas of competence which is very much part of what goes on in a community, and so it should be.
Unfortunately, a great deal of resources are still needed in many countries in order to achieve this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for her work.
The Member States of the European Union must work together in the field of quality evaluation in school education, because this is of crucial importance to labour market policy and the free movement of workers within the EU.
As far back as 1998, at a conference in Prague attended by 26 European countries, the national Ministers for Education agreed to implement a system of common indicators for their methods and results.
So we can only be surprised at the size of the gaps between the Member States of the European Union which are emerging, in particular, from the first set of statistics published by Eurostat last July.
For example, while the average level of public spending per pupil in secondary education in Europe is 100, Germany spends 84.9 and France 131.6.
As regards the methodological issues, on the other hand, the new cooperation in evaluation of education systems could, in fact, lead the way to a new, wholly beneficial, method.
It is simply a matter of together finding out the best practices, without, a priori, setting targets in precise detail beforehand and of allowing each country to draw their own conclusions.
In addition, it can easily extend beyond the Union' s borders to bring together 26 or more Member States, rather than 15.
Quality comparisons - be they internal or external - generate competition, and if the quality of education in European schools is enhanced as a result, and the three-fold challenge posed by the information society, globalisation and rapid scientific and technological change is taken into account, then this report will have achieved its goal of giving renewed impetus to efforts in the field of education, and a major step forward will have been taken at European level.
Mr President, I, too, would like to congratulate those who have been responsible for getting the report to this stage.
The primary purpose of education is not to prepare people for the job market but to prepare them for a life which is fulfilling in every way.
So when we are assessing the quality of education, we want to see if we can develop people who have self-esteem and confidence, who can communicate effectively, who can look behind the information for the hidden message, who can question, who can work as part of a team and independently, and who are creative, resourceful and have an appreciation of the wider world and their responsibility to it.
I also think that when we are looking at the quality of education we need to see if it is delivering real equality of opportunity for all of those within the system or whether it is doing, as society does, so much to exclude people on grounds of a poor background or their colour or whatever.
That is why I welcome this report.
Collaboration on the part of the Member States in evaluating school education is becoming an important tool for intervening in the Member States' education systems, the aim being to promote an education model which is a far cry from a universal, quantitatively and qualitatively broad general education.
This policy results in cutbacks in general education for the benefit of training which produces disposable labour; it even results in general education being replaced by an endless process of life-long learning.
If we were truly interested in the quality of education, we would not be concentrating on evaluation mechanisms but on improving the standard of education for everyone.
Mr President, I welcome this document and fully support the European Parliament and Council decision to promote cooperation and quality evaluation in school education.
Spain, for example, attaches great importance to social inclusion and developing personalities, working in teams; integrating.
The recommendation relates to two crucial points.
Secondly, the role of European cooperation in this area.
Ladies and gentlemen, together with the Ministers for Education, we are making these proposals on quality analysis to enable us to give this opportunity to all young people, because if they receive a high quality education then it is likely that they will be able to do well in society and be able to find a job.
That is why I would once again like to thank Mrs Sanders-ten Holte, the rapporteur, as well as the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport and all the Members who have assisted us in this work.
I would like to inform you that, following the Education Council' s move to make evaluation and quality a priority issue, action 6 of the Socrates programme has put out to tender within this very specific area.
I would also like to inform you that, at the beginning of April, the Swedish Presidency will be holding a conference at Karstadt and that the upcoming Belgian Presidency has already planned to work on this issue during its presidency.
Thank you very much, Mrs Reding.
The debate is closed.
The European Parliament has approached this matter very seriously with, in particular, two resolutions adopted in 1982 and 1988, which provide a frame of reference for the action to be undertaken in this field.
Since the last time sites were selected in December 2000, 690 sites have been added to the World Heritage List, 208 of which are located within the European Union.
That would moreover help to bring Europe closer to the people, giving them an awareness of a shared cultural heritage.
Finally, I suggest that the European Commission should, in liaison with the Council of Europe and UNESCO, look into the viability of a legal and fiscal instrument in order to facilitate forms of patronage relating to the conservation of the cultural and natural heritage.
It is the feeling, the pleasure we all experience when travelling through the European Union and marvelling at the treasures we find there and the pride we feel that, thanks to the existence of the European Union, we are in some small way owners, and also their custodians for all time.
Mr President, Commissioner, world cultural heritage - we have just heard the statistics - is distributed relatively unevenly.
places that have been deemed part of world cultural heritage, in comparison with the number found in the rest of the world, and it is a real drop in the ocean, because there are many more sites that would merit this kind of status and support.
The diversity of cultural heritage underlines the identity of a country' s own regions, which is why responsibility must primarily be taken and asserted at regional level, whilst acknowledging that they must be afforded substantial support from outside, from the European Union and from all those who are jointly responsible.
The conservation of our cultural heritage is associated not only with a high level of responsibility, but also with high levels of cost.
Naturally - to come back to what the previous speaker said - every Member State of the European Union has a policy on these issues.
This project and many others have one thing in common: they hope to receive, or they are already in receipt of, Community funding.
The UEN Group will vote in favour of this report.
The importance of musical heritage or literature in the oral tradition may be emphasised, the task of collection, analysis and protection of which still remains to be carried out in a good many countries.
The French Finance Minister, responsible for implementing the withdrawal of the franc, recently published on his website a very interesting survey on the French people' s commitment to their currency.
Only 26% of the French have confidence in this artificial currency.
This awareness demonstrates that the concept of cultural diversity and respect for what is foreign is an accepted idea right at the nub of the problem and will help Europe play a fundamental role in relation to the rest of the world in the era of globalisation.
Not only is the Commission not in a position to draw up its own list of cultural and natural heritage properties and sites, but it is rather reluctant to consider adding to the number of existing lists.
To return to my opening remarks, this does not limit our responsibility in the area of heritage conservation.
Schemes have also included the improvement of the methods and tools used by heritage workers in Europe, especially those developed by the International Institute for the Preservation of Cultural Heritage in Rome, and the further training of workers and specialist craftspeople in the area of restoration, an area we have tried to develop through our education programmes, precisely in order to establish a supply of specialists capable of assisting with various ongoing restoration projects.
