There are three key words in relation to this issue: information, investigation and audit, as I pointed out to you.
There you have it, Mr Titley.
The Daphne II programme is dedicated to European initiatives combating violence not only against children but also against women and will have a budget of EUR 50 million for the new operating period.
Oliver is not yet surfing the net, but Emily already is.
Subject: Stoning of seven women in Iran According to Amnesty International news release MDE 13/111/2006, seven Iranian women, Parisa Akbari, Iran Eskandari, Khayrieh Valania, Shamameh Ghorbani, Kobra Najjar, Soghra Mola'i and Fatemeh, face imminent stoning in Iran.
It is difficult for the honourable Member on the one hand to ask us to make representations; to make a case to the Iranian authorities; to make a stand for human rights and against this abhorrent practice; and, at the same time, to criticise us for engaging in a dialogue.
In close collaboration with EU embassies in Tehran, the Commission monitors the situation on the ground very closely, in particular as far as the death penalty is concerned.
I think that we need to step up our efforts, for I know that the border regions would like to have a say too.
As the international roaming problem has shown, we do not yet have an internal market in this area.
In October 2005, the Commission created a website where all the prices were published, in the interests of transparency, including those in the new Member States.
On a more positive note, EU structural assistance in Greece provides substantial co-funding for investments aimed at promoting speedier adoption of ICT in Greece and, in particular, for broadband internet in schools and public organisations in remote, island or mountainous areas.
In that sense we hope that the many problems that persist in some regions, and especially in Greece, can gradually be overcome. (EL) Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for her reply, which fully satisfied me.
I should also like to extend my special thanks to her for visiting Cyprus and for visiting the ENISA, thereby helping to resolve numerous problems for the benefit of this organisation.
The first answer is very clear.
My answer to the honourable Member is that, according to information from the registry, the number of applications submitted during the sunrise period was 346 218, of which 181 306 were filed during the first phase and 164 912 during the second.
During that same period, the registry also set up a call centre, where applicants could obtain quick responses to their questions in 20 official languages.
The project aims to create public-private partnerships and promote in particular awareness of quality and environmental managements systems and social standards - ISO 14000 and SA 8000 certified companies have increased in number - as well as strengthening the Consumer Association, through which pressure for change and control will be built up.
There is a narrow window of opportunity for resuming the talks between the United States mid-term elections on 7 November and early in the spring of 2007, when the US Congress starts working on a new farm bill.
But in the case of agriculture you have, exceptionally, a system of agricultural support and in some cases export subsidies which has been very trade-distorting.
The Member States with derogations are obliged to adopt the euro as their currency, and to that end they must work towards meeting the convergence criteria laid down in the Treaty.
Furthermore, in the 2004 convergence report, the Commission pointed out that the Swedish legislation was not fully compatible with Articles 108 and 109 of the Treaty.
In any event, as I said again at the beginning of my reply, with the exception of the two States with an opt-out clause - the United Kingdom and Denmark - the other Members of the European Union that have yet to adopt the single currency, and for which the derogation is in place, are obliged to adopt it and to work towards complying with the criteria, but there is no date by which they are obliged to have complied with them. (DE) Mr President, there are two more, and quite specific, items of information that I would welcome.
The first is that I should like to know whether the Commission, when a Member State such as Sweden, without any arrangement being made for it in the Treaties, fails, for a period of years, to introduce the euro, will take legal action against it by, for example, taking it to the ECJ, or whether it will let the matter rest for another twenty years.
Member of the Commission. (ES) Mr Posselt, we must not confuse the Member States' obligation to prepare for adoption of the single currency with the actions that the Commission and the Council may take - and are taking in fact - in relation to Member States that are not complying with the provisions of the Treaty, in the field of budgetary discipline, for example, as in the case of Hungary and other Member States.
The factors for complying with the criteria for adoption of the single currency therefore depend partly on political decisions to be directly adopted by the governments or parliaments of the Member States, and partly on factors that are not always under the Member States' control.
According to some forecasts, the euro will disappear in 15 years.
In my view, therefore, the issue is not whether the euro has a future; the question is whether the countries that are not preparing properly for the adoption of the euro are going to suffer the consequences in the future.
We have seen 311 million Europeans enjoy the advantages of having a common currency, and we have also seen all of the Member States of the European Union enjoy the advantages of the fact that twelve of them have adopted the single currency.
There are therefore more than enough reasons for the Member States that have yet to adopt the euro to be convinced that they must prepare and adopt economic policy decisions aimed at fulfilling these criteria and strengthening a currency which, seven years after its birth, is already the world's second largest currency. (SV) In a referendum, the people of Sweden rejected participation in economic and monetary union by a broad majority.
Subject: Euro zone integration It is common knowledge that all the new Member States that joined the European Union in 2004 made a commitment to participate in European monetary union.
Member of the Commission. (ES) Mr Paleckis, on signing the Accession Treaty, the ten Member States that joined the Union in May 2004 agreed to adopt the euro as soon as they complied with the necessary conditions.
In your opinion, would it be better for Lithuania in future to think about joining the euro alone or in the company of the two other Baltic States - Latvia and Estonia?
Member of the Commission. (ES) Mr Paleckis, when, during the first half of this year, Lithuania, at the same time as Slovenia, asked the Commission and the European Central Bank to issue an opinion on their degree of compliance with the criteria laid down in the Treaty for membership of the Monetary Union, the Commission's response, which was subsequently backed by the Council, was unfortunately negative in the case of Lithuania and positive in the case of Slovenia.
I believe that that is not just the attitude of the European Commission, but also of all of the Member States that want Lithuania to comply with the conditions as soon as possible and become a new member of the euro zone, as Slovenia will on 1 January.
If Lithuania is accompanied by other Member States, the other Baltic States, then all the better.
Member of the Commission. (ES) The only definite date is 1 January 2007 for Slovenia, although it is the case that, in June, the European Council supported the Commission's proposal and the Ecofin Council confirmed that Lithuania complies with almost all of the conditions for joining the euro zone.
In our next convergence report, which will be adopted by the Commission and presented to this Parliament in December, we shall assess the extent to which, at this precise moment, the derogation countries comply with the conditions.
Member of the Commission. (ES) Mr Martin, I understand the frustration of the candidates for adoption of the single currency whose candidature is not being successful because they do not comply with the inflation criterion, for example, when, at the same time, they can see that certain Member States of the euro zone, which have been part of it since 1999 or 2001, are still members despite the fact that they do not comply with, in some cases, the inflation criterion, in others, the deficit criterion and, in others, the debt criterion.
It is a market instrument, because those Member States are losing competitiveness, and their citizens and companies are suffering the consequences of the loss of competitiveness, which can no longer by definition be restored through modifications in exchange rates, because these Member States have adopted the single currency.
Member of the Commission. (ES) Mr Mitchell, the Commission does not expect the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union to have immediate effects on the composition of the euro zone.
The European Central Bank tends to put practically all of the increase in productivity recorded over recent quarters down to the economic cycle, but I believe that there are certain indications that the structural reforms that have been adopted over recent years and whose pace is beginning to speed up as a result of the positive impact of enlargement are also beginning to play a positive role in this improvement in productivity.
