Explanations of vote in writing. - Conservatives have supported the Vakalis report but have grave reservations about paragraphs 16 and 17.
It is important to initiate social education and information campaigns throughout the EU and to provide education and training to the staff of the relevant technical authorities in the Member States, and this should include training at regional and local levels as well as for all the specialists involved in earthquakes.
We are well aware of the fact that the European Union - and here I am thinking of the Commission and the Member States - is the leading provider of humanitarian aid.
The EU contribution for 2006 amounted to only EUR 2 billion.
It is because of this ambivalence that I abstained in the vote on the Cornillet report.
in writing. - (PL) The rapporteur Thierry Cornillet is right to emphasise the need for the Community and the Member States to extend the debate on political strategies in humanitarian operations to the relevant Council forum by creating a new special working group.
Since the present report, in my view, is not a suitable basis for the resolution of all these problems, I have voted against it.
in writing. - As a strong supporter of humanitarian aid projects when they are timely, well targeted and effectively resourced, I voted in favour of the report on humanitarian aid.
In the final vote I also voted against the report and most of the compromises, although I do believe that the report adopted by Parliament is a marked improvement on the Commission's proposal.
Commissioner Dimas gave it to us five years later.
The Commission ignores the fact that many countries - and the Czech Republic is one example - have their own legislation and good systems in place to protect soil from further erosion and degradation.
I share the view that soil protection should be subject to regulation at Community level in order to guarantee a minimum level of protection in all the Member States of the EU.
We consider the proposal and the report to be in clear breach of the principle of subsidiarity, which is why we have voted against many of the amendments and also against the report in its entirety.
The Member States should, however, be urged to involve themselves deeply in this area because soil is the basis of all economic and agricultural activity.
The implementation of the provisions of the directive will allow economic use to be made of degraded areas, while at the same time protecting greenfield sites from being used for industrial and commercial purposes.
We have chosen to vote in favour of the report even though a number of EU countries already have fully functioning legislation in the area of soil protection.
It is very good that the European Parliament has endorsed the examination of the possible use of the 'polluter pays' principle under Article 22, and the assessment of land use under Article 28, given its great significance in connection with carbon sequestration.
It is important that the soil proposal both protects peatlands as valuable habitats under threat, while at the same time allows for the appropriate extraction of peat as a raw material.
It is not clear whether Amendment 36 of the Gutiérrez-Cortines report (on the adjustment of the list of functions in Article 1) allows this and I urge the Commission and or Council to clarify this in their considerations.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Gutiérrez-Cortines report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for the protection of soil and amending Directive 2004/35/EC because I consider soils to be a vital resource that must be protected to mitigate the effects of climate change and to ensure that the activities of future generations can take place in a safe and healthy environment.
According to their specific situation, however, Member States will have to decide what their priority measures should be, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity.
The European Parliament has amended it significantly, with proposals in support of the principle of subsidiarity, recognising the importance of agriculture and stating that 'each Member State, in accordance with its climate, soil characteristics (...) may decide upon its own agricultural policy in relation to the soil', and recognising the different approaches towards soil protection.
I therefore support the Gutiérrez-Cortines report and vote against all the proposed amendments that seek to reject the Commission proposal or significantly weaken the report.
in writing. - (PL) The proposed framework directive consolidates legal solutions in the area of soil protection policy that are contained in a fragmentary way in other legislation relating to waste management, the use of pesticides and environmental protection.
There is no need for a framework directive on soil protection.
The soil situation in the Member States varies.
in writing. - (DE) Soil is a vital asset.
This application of the subsidiarity principle must remain intact.
Nevertheless, wanting to regulate this problem paternalistically and bureaucratically at European level is a step too far.
in writing. - Despite my stated opposition to a proposal for a Directive on Soil Protection, I voted in favour of this report at the final vote.
I am in favour of encouraging Member States which have not yet taken the necessary measures on their own initiative to remedy the omission now.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the Gutiérrez-Cortines report because it proposes positive steps forward for the protection and sustainable use of soil - a non-renewable resource which it is vital to preserve, and the quality of which is crucial if we are to ensure adequate levels of food production and access to clean water.
in writing. - This is yet another example of the one-size-fits-all approach which gives the European Union a bad name in our Member States.
Surely this is a prime example of an area in which we should allow Member States to determine their own legislation on the basis of their own soil types.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the adoption by the House of Cristina Gutiérrez-Cortines' report, urging the introduction of a single, coherent European policy for soil protection.
in writing. - I am afraid I will be voting against this report because it is my view that a framework on the protection of soil is not needed.
Sorry to say, I think this is a poor and unnecessary piece of legislation, and I will vote against in the hope that I can save farmers, horticulturalists and local authorities from a bureaucratic nightmare.
in writing. - (DE) I reject the framework directive on soil protection, because it is a gross breach of the principle of subsidiarity and is therefore unacceptable as European legislation.
Even if the European Parliament votes in favour, I shall take my fight to the Federal Government with a view to ensuring that the Federal Republic of Germany challenges this directive before the European Court of Justice.
in writing. - (FR) In line with the vote in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I believe that the Commission has exceeded its brief here and that the European Union does not need to issue new instructions to the Member States.
in writing. - (DE) I reject the framework directive on soil protection, because it is a gross breach of the principle of subsidiarity and is therefore unacceptable as European legislation.
Even if the European Parliament votes in favour, I shall take my fight to the Federal Government with a view to ensuring that the Federal Republic of Germany challenges this directive before the European Court of Justice.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, the justification for the Commission's proposal to the European Parliament is a new comitology procedure that significantly increases the powers of the European Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) In 2006 the decision amending the previous 1999 decision laying down the rules for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission was finally adopted after years of negotiations between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament.
in writing. - (DE) The Schengen acquis is a particularly sensitive area in which we must be able to respond to any contingency.
Since this is extremely doubtful in my opinion, I have voted against the Cashman report. (DE) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Hegyi report because we have repeatedly criticised the democratic deficit that exists with regard to genetically modified organisms.
We believe it is important as a minimum to have wider control of GMO technology, at least in relation to procedures, as the European Parliament now intends, but we stress the need to exercise caution, whether in relation to agriculture or processed foodstuffs.
in writing. - (DE) 70% of the European population are opposed to genetic engineering.
in writing. - Conservatives voted in favour of this report but have regrets over the approach the Council has taken during the parliamentary process.
in writing. - (PT) This directive is extremely important because of growing concerns regarding money laundering and its role in funding international crime and terrorism.
I support this initiative, which seeks to update Directive 2005/60/EC on money laundering, particularly as regards all the implementation measures listed in Article 41 of that directive.
It is important that international standards are introduced and respected in order to protect the financial system against crime and money laundering in general, while at the same time the Member States' own measures must not be incompatible with the rules of the single market.
in writing. - (PT) The proposal submitted amends the provisions of Directive 2005/60/EC on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, which imposed a time limitation on the implementing powers conferred on the Commission in this area.
It is therefore now clear that any amendments to this directive must be submitted for consideration to the European Parliament as well as to the Council.
Finally, we must highlight the inconsistency of the European Union, which promotes total freedom of movement of capital and tax havens at the same time as it champions the fight against money laundering.
in writing. - The justification for this legislation is to protect the EU financial system from money laundering and terrorist financing.
We Swedish Social Democrats voted in favour of the report because we consider that there is a need to increase knowledge about BZP, which is a synthetic drug, and to make the substance subject to control measures and criminal sanctions.
in writing. - (PT) Since 2005 listed companies have been required in certain circumstances to draw up their consolidated accounts in compliance with international accounting standards.
Despite certain reservations, this resolution accepts the Commission's proposal (amending that regulation) to endorse a standard (IFRS 8) which in turn incorporates a US standard (SFAS 131) into EU law.
This is accepted, as stated in the resolution, even though the impact assessment carried out by the Commission did not take sufficiently into account the interests of users as well as the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises located in different European countries and enterprises operating only locally.
The Russian KGB regime is seeking legitimacy.
Russia is holding us hostage.
This resolution is an example of perfidy and weakness.
Therefore I quote it now, 'whereas Russian Federation did not fulfil any commitments of those undertaken by its accession to the Council of Europe in 1996 and two years ago bluntly denounced already signed new border agreement with EU Member State Estonia, thus leaving this sector of EU-Russia border unregulated up to now; whereas the actual legislation of Russia Federation still contains aggressive positions as that on social privileges for its military servicemen in a case of losses caused or injuries got during armed actions in Baltic States, or that about procedures of accession of foreign states or their parts with Russian Federation'.
in writing. - I supported this resolution with a degree of reluctance.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, the EU-Russia summit in Mafra illustrates the change in relations since the 1990s when the partnership and cooperation agreement, which expires in 2007, was born.
in writing. - (PT) The 18th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall came after the EU-Russia summit, which was held after this report was discussed but before it was put to the vote.
in writing. - I strongly disagree with the Atkins amendment (Amendment 1 to paragraph 15) to the Committee on Petitions' report by Carlos José Iturgaiz Angulo.
