Immigration, the role of Frontex and cooperation among Member States (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on immigration, the role of Frontex, and cooperation among Member States.
The European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (Frontex) is responsible for coordinating and supporting Member States' efforts to monitor and control the EU's external borders.
In line with an increased budget, Frontex now plays an even greater role in managing the operational cooperation between Member States in connection with the control of the EU's external borders.
The Council welcomed the Commission's plan to examine how Frontex's mandate can be extended to enable increased cooperation with third countries.
An evaluation of the Frontex Regulation is currently being carried out and the Commission will present a proposal for possible amendments at the beginning of 2010.
This dialogue must be based on the principles of solidarity and shared responsibility.
Mr President, migration is a priority issue that will be keeping the institution very busy, and I wish to thank Mr Tobias Billström, who is well acquainted with this problem.
We are in the process of drafting an immigration policy based on three pillars: respect for the right of asylum, the fight against illegal immigration, and European coordination to provide for legal migration.
It really is important for all of the EU Member States to show solidarity in the face of this challenge.
The challenge of illegal migration does, of course, require an effective prevention strategy, implemented in partnership with all of the countries located along the migratory routes.
The European Union is doing all it can to develop these dialogues and this cooperation.
The work subsequently carried out formed the basis of a series of decisions taken by the June European Council.
On 2 September, I also presented the European Parliament and the Council with a communication proposing a common European programme on the resettlement of refugees from third countries.
I know, Mr Billström, that this programme is close to your heart.
The Commission's proposal for a regulation on the creation of this Office is currently being examined within the Community institutions.
I should really like it if Parliament and the Council could come to an agreement under the Swedish Presidency in order to make this Support Office operational in 2010, and I am very much counting on our Commission and on the Swedish Presidency.
The budget for financing Frontex operations in 2009 has been increased to EUR 36 million, and we are currently looking into how Frontex can organise the repatriation of illegal migrants.
In maritime areas, these operations must also be conducted in accordance with international maritime law.
That is why we are going to try to see how these rules can be developed and clarified so that Community law and international law can be applied better within the context of these operations.
It will cover the European Parliament's report and the assessment that will have been carried out by the agency in accordance with Article 33 of the Frontex regulation.
The European Council stressed the need for enhanced cooperation with the main countries of origin and of transit and asked the Commission to look at possible ways of cooperating in practice with these countries.
With regard to Turkey, the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Justice, Freedom and Security, Jonathan Faull, is today on an assignment in Ankara to investigate the extent to which, and the means by which, an increase in cooperation could encourage the Turkish authorities to become more involved in a more responsible form of migration management, with the aim both of re-admitting illegal immigrants and, above all, of providing international protection for refugees.
Finally, I should like to mention the Stockholm programme, which must lay the foundations for a more effective common policy and which will enable us to promote coordinated immigration in the spirit of the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum.
I shall not repeat what I said just now, that is, the three major themes of this policy, a common asylum system in line with our humanitarian traditions, more effective control of illegal immigration through more integrated management of our internal borders and our visa policy, and then, of course, the increased effectiveness of our fight against human trafficking and the implementation of a specific return policy aimed at the long-term reintegration of migrants into their community of origin, as well as the opening up to legal migration within a framework that guarantees that the needs of host countries are accommodated, without forgetting the needs of countries of origin or respect for the rights of migrants.
This brings me on to the first point I would like to raise, Mr President, regarding the complexity of this subject.
Mr President, Mr Billström, Commissioner Barrot, I agree with the importance and support the emphasis that both the Presidency and the Commission have placed on identifying this as one of the most influential dimensions of globalisation that needs a European response.
That involves the dimensions of asylum and refugees, and also compliance with the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum, which was signed in October 2008.
Back on 31 August, I tabled a priority question to the Commission.
Alas, the Mediterranean has now become a mass grave and the Berlusconi Government, to wit, the Italian Government, has signed an agreement with Libya which unfortunately allows Italy to refuse entry not only to migrants, but also refugees from countries where there is persecution or civil war, such as Somalia and Eritrea, and denies these poor people the right to seek asylum, thereby breaching every international rule and the Geneva Convention in particular.
I repeat, alas this agreement forces these people to undergo torture, because this is what we are dealing with: the detention centres to which they are taken in Libya are torture, according to press reports and also photographs, for example, photographs which show many of these immigrants in Ganfuda prison, 10 kilometres from Benghazi.
As highlighted by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the non-refoulement principle prevents people being returned to territories where their lives could be considered to be in danger or their freedom could be threatened.
Since then, as you know, in mid-August, 73 Africans were found dead off Lampedusa.
On 25 August, 57 Eritrean migrants were finally rescued after a lengthy spell in Maltese waters.
These situations are on the increase, and they are also occurring more and more at the border between Turkey and Greece.
Countries like Britain need guarantees that our asylum and immigration policy remains for us to decide and guarantees also that the EU's approach will remain one of open cooperation and not one of compulsion.
Mr President, Mr Billström, Commissioner Barrot, the start of this legislative term offers us an excellent opportunity to rethink our immigration policy.
This policy of trying to make Europe into a fortress at this time of crisis, which is a triple crisis in terms of food, finance and energy, is not understood by everyone, because our work is poor and heading in the wrong direction.
Net immigration to Britain is now running at about 230 000 people per annum, adding over a million new people to the population every five years.
The UK Independence Party is not opposed to some immigration, but this should be strictly controlled and for the benefit of Britain and not the European Union or anybody else.
The budget for Poseidon, the operation currently under way, is EUR 11 million.
The need to increase Frontex missions to the south of our borders, in southern Europe, particularly in the Mediterranean and on the Atlantic front, is not just the European Union's response to the migratory pressure developing in Greece, Malta, Italy or Spain; it is also a humanitarian response to prevent death and avoid drama.
Just look at what has happened with the Frontex budget: it has gone from EUR 6 million in 2005 to EUR 78 or 83 million in 2010.
Frontex undoubtedly plays a key role in Europe's approach to migration.
Sea rescue operations have therefore to be included in its remit.
The situation for Italy and Libya is, of course, something which my colleagues from Italy will speak more about, but this principle must not be violated by anyone or any country.
It is important that we uphold these human rights.
Mr President, the British press, assisted to such a conclusion by paranoid and Euro-sceptic MEPs, has scaremongered that a future Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which Mr Barroso has accepted at the proposal of the ALDE Group, will force the UK to accept more asylum seekers from across Europe.
However, what we do try and get is voluntary solidarity, and I do hope that a future Fundamental Rights Commissioner will make a contribution to stopping migrants meeting their death in the Mediterranean.
We need clarity about what is the stage of the procedure of the new rules of Frontex that you mentioned, Commissioner, and we need some clarification about how refugees can obtain international protection when they are intercepted at sea.
I would like to remind you that Parliament has always supported the idea of making the sharing of responsibility to deal with asylum applications obligatory, and I think your report of the pilot project where only France took a very, very small, almost ridiculous, number of 100 refugees from Malta shows that we are not getting far with the voluntary solidarity.
I genuinely appreciate the Commission's efforts in recent years, but Commissioner Barrot will agree with me when I say that we need to speed things up to create a true European strategy on immigration, which prioritises the uncompromising fight against illegal immigration and the trafficking and exploitation of human beings.
This is the key point, in my view, because otherwise we end up in the paradoxical situation whereby some Member States, including Italy, Malta, Greece and Spain, are obliged to receive illegal immigrants, whereas others hide behind the discretional concept of solidarity on a voluntary basis.
I would like to thank France which has offered to accept 100 people, 100 asylum seekers: 100 people, but that is out of the thousands, tens of thousands of asylum seekers.
In the absence of a serious cooperation policy for development, where Europe must take a leading role, we will be condemning part of the world to a certain and inevitable future of poverty and despair. (EL) Minister, Commissioner, Parliament has urgently called for cooperation at European level with immigrants' countries of origin and transit.
Also, compulsory solidarity cannot only take the form of Frontex-type policing measures in the southern states.
This is unacceptable for practical reasons, for moral reasons and for political reasons, and you know it, Mr Barrot! (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will immediately start by saying, without exaggeration, that for me, hospitality is a sacred value.
It cannot engage, as has already happened in this Chamber, in crude, theatrical performances in the argument over what the Italian Government or other governments are doing.
This is why I hope that the Swedish Presidency will begin to establish an agreement with the most vulnerable countries in order to think logically and bring about what has been lacking until now, namely a robust, balanced, sound and rigorous common policy on immigration. (IT) Mr President, Mr Barrot, Mr Billström, ladies and gentlemen, we called for this debate to draw the EU's attention to the grave violations of fundamental human rights taking place in Italy.
Since May, over 1 000 migrants have been picked up at sea by the Italian authorities and handed over to Libya in the course of informal and indiscriminate refoulements without identifying the people, giving them the right to appeal or access to asylum procedures, with the danger that they will be subjected to inhumane and degrading treatment in Libya.
Yesterday, the United Nations called on Italy to comply with international law and, also yesterday, 24 Somali and Eritrean refugees turned away by Italy lodged an appeal against Italy at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg for violating the European Convention on Human Rights.
We see Turkey - a state which wants to accede to the European Union - turning back Frontex aircraft on a daily basis and the European Union failing to react as it should.
In the same way, European policy on the fight against illegal immigration and on external border control ultimately amounts to passing the responsibility for border control on to our neighbours, in defiance of human rights.
This is basically the opposite of what the Italian Government is doing, as demonstrated by the latest worrying refoulement of 75 immigrants from Eritrea and Somalia to Libya, which happened without at least checking whether there were any potential asylum seekers, as required by international law and as denounced yesterday by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.
I therefore call on the Commission to take action as soon as possible to ensure that the rules of international law are restored and complied with.
I would also like to welcome his initiative for the asylum support officer, which is a very practical and concrete way to support Member States who feel burdened and to start cooperation among Member States.
I would like to ask Minister Billström if, other than the measures he has already talked about, he could maybe elaborate further, from a long-term point of view, about what measures we can take to support the Mediterranean countries and people, with his approach, which balances humanity, solidarity and firmness against any form of illegality. (EL) Mr President, without doubt, we need a common immigration policy and we need to reinforce our cooperation with third countries and make it more cohesive and effective.
Within this cooperation, as the debate has illustrated, Libya and Turkey have prime position.
Mr Barrot, you will receive detailed notice of these cases of provocation and of Turkey's provocative conduct.
The problem is very acute.
However, in all its activities, it is also seriously undermining the credibility of the EU when it comes to the protection of human rights. (SV) Mr President, thank you Mr Billström.
In any case, I believe that immigration means security and respect for human rights.
Unfortunately though, globalisation and the enlargement of the European Union to 27 countries have happened in too much of a rush without taking the appropriate steps to safeguard security and respect for human rights.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you all for a very interesting debate.
The Swedish Presidency will organise a special conference in Brussels on this issue and the fight against human trafficking.
This reasoning leads us, naturally, to the conclusion that the EU needs a common European asylum system and also better opportunities for the legal immigration of workers based on national needs, legal certainty and protection against wage dumping and social exploitation.
Increased cooperation with the countries of origin and transit is particularly important.
For example, development cooperation with these countries needs to increase in order to create stability, security and sustainability.
I would point out that our approach must be balanced between the rejection of illegal immigration, which, I might add, is often attributable to smugglers and traffickers; the desire, in respect of this fight against illegal immigration, to promote a certain kind of legal migration, a decision which rests with the Member States; and also the desire to preserve, in any case, the duty of asylum.
First of all, I should like to respond very briefly on the Frontex issue, and to point out that we are preparing a proposal amending the regulation on Frontex and its working methods.
I would add that Community legislation demands that the Member States conduct border control operations in accordance with the principle of non-refoulement.
This principle means that a State must refrain from returning people to a territory in which they could run the risk of being subjected to torture, punishments, or inhumane or degrading treatment.
In the case of asylum seekers and refugees, return cannot take place where their lives and freedom may be threatened on the grounds of their race, religion or nationality.
Finally, I should like to reiterate our desire, with Mr Billström, to engage with Libya, on the one hand, and with Turkey, on the other, in a real dialogue that will allow us to get to the bottom of matters, to be able to cooperate on border control in order to prevent illegal migration, but also to see how, with the support of the High Commissioner for Refugees, we can try to initiate procedures in these Mediterranean countries that will mean that genuine asylum seekers do not have to resort to smugglers or traffickers in order to reach European shores and will see their asylum applications processed in those countries.
This, then, is a major dialogue that is going to take up this last quarter.
To conclude, I should like to reiterate that we need a European strategy on migratory movements.
We are proposing that this be done on a voluntary basis, but this voluntary basis will, without doubt, have to be formalised as a genuine response to the problems.
I should like to finish with a somewhat urgent appeal to the European Parliament to help us, in particular, regarding this strategy, this European asylum policy.
All of this makes for a real European asylum policy that I feel is entirely consistent with the values on which, in my view, there is consensus in Europe.
in writing. - I welcome this debate, which brings attention to the fragmented and inconsistent EU policies on border control, immigration and asylum seekers.
The Commission and Council must show more resolve in providing the necessary funding for FRONTEX.
The FRONTEX agency must play an ever-increasing role in the process of improving the monitoring and control of Romania's external borders, representing more than 2 000 km of the EU's external frontier, in other words, the Schengen area's future external border.
During the last year, FRONTEX has signed cooperation agreements with Russia and the countries in the former Republic of Yugoslavia, as well as with Ukraine and Moldova.
The possibility of signing cooperation agreements with other third countries is another matter which the Commission must explore.
