This would be a major international agreement within a multilateral framework, which would not negate the validity of a bilateral framework between the United States, Japan and Europe, with room too for Brazil, India, China and the other major trading regions of the world.
With regard to certain developing countries, we have the system of generalised tariff preferences, and we should ensure that this system is strengthened but, at the same time, that it is also used to combat the willingness of certain countries to act as conduits for the entry of these counterfeit goods.
author. - Madam President, I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur for his profound work.
In line with Europe's role in the world and the Commission's strategy for ensuring that intellectual property rights are respected, we cooperate with partners who share our concerns.
The aim of ACTA is to combat large-scale illegal activities, and to protect the European Union's innovators.
At the start of this year - and this is important - a unit specialising in the enforcement of industrial and intellectual property rights was set up.
In addition, we need to have a solid knowledge base in order to put in place a permanent strategy for combating counterfeiting and piracy.
We therefore need to act to ensure that precise, complete information can be collected.
The RAPEX system was designed to prevent accidents caused by dangerous products.
It is true that counterfeit products could belong to this category.
The main advantage of RAPEX is that it allows information on dangerous consumer products found in one Member State to be rapidly communicated to the other Member States and the Commission to prevent other consumers from buying them.
In line with the principle of subsidiarity, Member States have a duty to ensure that products put on sale are all safe and that market surveillance is carried out effectively, but in the past, this surveillance has not been carried out with the same degree of rigour in all Member States.
The regulation brings in a cooperation mechanism between authorities, at both national and cross-border levels.
The Council has stated that it is very much in favour of this approach.
On 25 September 2008, it adopted a comprehensive European anti-counterfeiting and anti-piracy plan.
This is proof that Member States attach considerable importance to respect for intellectual property rights.
Within this context, the Commission met with the directors-general of the customs authorities of the Member States at a high-level seminar, held in Paris on 25 and 26 November 2008.
I therefore thank the European Parliament for the sensitivity it has shown with regard to this major problem.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has dealt with this subject, particularly as concerns international negotiations in relation to ACTA, and it raised the following points: the lack of transparency, for example, in international negotiations, the question of the interrelationship with international agreements and organisations such as TRIPS or WIPO, the lack of a legal basis for the definition of nature and the magnitude of penalty provisions - a point that is also very important for the Member States.
I would like to summarise this briefly in one conclusion, namely that, whatever Member States or we think of the harmonisations of penalty provisions or however this takes place, we should be able to decide on the matter in question for ourselves.
The European Parliament asserts its rights.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr Barrot, it is true.
Again this week in Scotland, it was revealed that so far this year, Scottish police have seized half a million CDs and DVDs with a street value close to GBP 5 million.
There are at least three groups of losers for counterfeited goods.
There are two ways in which piracy and counterfeiting pose a threat to consumers and to people in general.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Madam President, the European Parliament resolution of 13 December 2007 on the textile sector indicated that half of all European customs procedures against counterfeiting relate to textiles and clothing.
The fact is that a European Commission proposal in this respect, although inadequate, has been marking time since 2005.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for this valuable report.
I would urge the Union to deploy the Eulex mission in Kosovo in the fight against these smuggling practices.
The fight against counterfeit goods should not only be waged on the negotiating table, but just as much on the ground.
This is a vitally important point in our fight to protect intellectual property, not least in the western Balkans. (SV) Madam President, this is, of course, an extremely broad subject.
It is nevertheless sad that in an area as important as this, we need to establish what we should not do when there are so many important things that we need to do.
That is why combating counterfeiting must be an absolute imperative for all EU Member States. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, counterfeiting is an economic, social and health menace of a size that, in my view, is often underestimated.
For once, I am more disappointed by Parliament than by the Commission or the Council, since in this sphere, the Council and the Commission have done their work.
Commissioner, what I would simply like to say to you is that I would really like the observatory, for example, to be made operational during the first half of 2009 and for the regulation on market surveillance adopted by the Council to be adopted in this Parliament.
As far as Mr Susta is concerned, I am not speaking here of his alternative proposal for a resolution, which unfortunately we are not going to debate.
In addition, I must say that I was staggered by the comments made by my two fellow Members from Sweden, who give the impression that the danger comes not from counterfeiting but from the fight against counterfeiting.
I would like our experiences in this field to be applied in the battle against other counterfeit products.
In a recent announcement, President Kovács stated that, during checks carried out by the customs authorities in countries of the European Union over the last two months, more than 34 million antibiotic, cancer and other counterfeit drugs were found.
You should know that, without compulsory cooperation from the drug agencies in these countries, it will be impossible to check the 3 000 pharmaceutical factories in India and the 12 000 factories in China. (PL) Madam President, there is no doubt that, in recent times, the problem of counterfeit goods and piracy has become a key issue in the field of international trade.
The European Union, as the second largest importer in the world, is particularly susceptible to being flooded with fake branded goods, toys or medicines, mainly from Asian countries.
The production of counterfeit goods and piracy are forms of theft, and I therefore support all initiatives to combat them.
We must therefore certainly take action, and I would like to remind you of some points.
This observatory should supply statistics on counterfeiting and piracy in the internal market.
ACTA remains within the framework of the European Union's current system.
In any case, I thank Parliament for supporting the Commission in trying to bring about effective combating of counterfeiting.
There are also products that can be described as similar, and on this point too, we must have rules that make it possible to prevent abuse, which is to be wholly condemned, at the expense of the consumer.
The vote will take place tomorrow, 18 December 2008.
