ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly (debate) The next item is the report by Thierry Cornillet, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2006.
At the first session, we had a common resolution on Darfur adopted in Vienna, whereas in Bridgetown a separate vote was requested; this blocked the resolution, because our ACP counterparts did not adopt it.
I think it is important that our ACP counterparts should be involved.
This would involve introductory training and a higher level of interest among our parliamentary counterparts in the European Development Fund and its implementation but also in the formulation of integrated national and regional plans, in the country strategy papers and in the economic partnership agreements.
The Assembly is now increasingly parliamentary in stature and conduct, with debates that are more open and fewer regional tensions.
I thank you for your appreciation, expressed in point 2, of the Commission's desire to subject the strategy papers to parliamentary scrutiny.
This also provides an opportunity for the Assembly to demonstrate its ability to play a genuine political role in our cooperation.
The fact that 77 MEPs and 77 ACP parliamentarians - one parliamentarian from each ACP country - meet a few times a year to discuss development policy is important.
As the situation in that country is unacceptable, we have to do everything in our power to protect the position of the citizens over there and to stop the human rights violations.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I really enjoyed hearing the Commissioner say that the Joint Parliamentary Assembly was now a robust organisation.
I would also like to make two observations that are less positive.
To sum up then, my conclusion is that 2006 was a good year for our JPA.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, I also wanted to welcome the report on behalf of my group, the Greens and EFA.
Accordingly, it is perfectly normal for us to turn to the Member States and to call, as the Cornillet report does exceedingly well, for greater involvement of the national parliaments, for by seeking to address the major problems on a European scale we would end up not dealing with them at all and at the same time releasing the Member States from their obligations.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although this comes as no surprise, it is nevertheless to be welcomed that the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly recognises in its report that the immigration issue will be dominating future relations between the EU and the developing world, and Africa in particular.
I would like to commend both Nirj Deva and Jürgen Schröder for constantly raising this issue.
I hope this will get rid of conflicts of duty on the European side and greatly improve active attendance by the 78 MEPs.
Two weeks ago, Archbishop Desmond Tutu was in Parliament talking specifically about Darfur and more generally about Africa.
Just as SADC is beginning to understand that Mugabe's regime is a problem, so the ACP is also stirring.
In March, the ACP-EU Bureau called on the Zimbabwean Government to re-establish respect for human rights and the rule of law in accordance with the Cotonou Agreement.
The Assembly is of crucial importance to the establishment of political dialogue as referred to in Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement.
I would like to stress the importance of following up important resolutions, in which the role of the standing committees is central.
The report fails to mention one essential issue: it is vital to respond to the intolerable situation in Zimbabwe.
The principle of not intruding on the territory of another institution remains intact, and I am not very sure how this process can be organised.
On the basis of the agreement reached by the Troika, the Commission will adopt a communication on 27 June on the objectives of the strategy and on the road map for its adoption at the EU-Africa summit in Lisbon, scheduled for 7 and 8 December of this year.
I would therefore like to involve the parliaments - the European Parliament, the Pan-African Parliament and the African national parliaments - in the implementation of this strategy on a permanent basis.
It is conceivable, for example, that there might be a joint hearing of the European Parliament and the Pan-African Parliament or a joint meeting of the European Commission and the Commission of the African Union.
Mr Van Orden, you referred to the case of Zimbabwe in connection with the EU-Africa summit.
While I share, at least in fairly broad terms, the judgments you passed on President Mugabe, the important thing for me today is that the European Union and Africa should be able to hold this summit.
I am also a member of an informal working party in which, together with Madeleine Albright, we have been working on this idea of property ownership, with which you are no doubt familiar.
