Part One Subject: The negative consequences of the EU biofuels targets 83% of the world's biofuels are produced in Indonesia and Malaysia.
However, demand for bioenergy is likely to rise in the future, and not only in the European Union, and that leads to increased production of palm oil for biofuels.
My concern and the concern that lies behind this question is that if we only measure the emissions from biofuels in Europe and not the emissions involved in the production and shipping of those biofuels, we might not actually be contributing to the reduction in global emissions.
So, in the negotiations which are to start in Bali, we need to work towards a scheme for protecting the rainforests, as well as looking at how to encourage the planting of more forests on the Earth, not for palm oil for our transport, but for less CO2 emissions from transport as a whole. (LT) Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to ask how an increase in the production of biofuel might affect the food market.
This currently makes for a problem as regards the production of barley for brewing purposes, since the subsidies for the production of biofuels make the cultivation of other crops a more attractive proposition for farmers, so, back home, we have had problems that affect our own economy, in cultivating the crops necessary for the brewing of beer, which is not the least important of economic sectors.
EU dependency on Russia should not be over-emphasised because it is clear that, with Russia having the biggest gas resources as well as being one of the countries with the biggest oil resources, it is natural that supplies from Russia are topping our import list.
One of the areas where we have been getting supplies this year is the Caspian Sea and Shah-Deniz in Azerbaijan, where we have established very good cooperation from the countries surrounding Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.
At the same time we are also diversifying oil supplies because a project has also been announced from Samsun to Ceyhan, an additional oil supply project that again will bring oil from the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea region towards the European Union.
The European Union is very active in all these areas, even if we always recognise that each country decides on its own energy mix.
Secondly, I do not think that Russia does this on purpose; it is just because those countries are the first in line whenever supplies are disrupted and, as they are more exposed than older Member States in terms of diversification of supply, they are affected more.
That is why this perception exists, but I would repeat that diversification is the key to avoiding this state of affairs, and every country should embark on diversification in order to minimise any problem that may arise in the transport of supplies.
According to the 2006 annual report of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, the majority of Member States have recorded an increase in racist violence and other racist crimes over the past few years.
This is the spirit in which the Council reached a political agreement on 20 April 2007 on a framework decision aimed at ensuring that racism and xenophobia are punishable in all Member States by effective, proportionate criminal penalties.
This framework decision requires Member States to criminalise intentional conduct, such as public incitement to violence or hate towards a group of people or persons belonging to a group defined on the basis of race.
I am not aware of any parliamentary action in the UK or in other Member States to tackle those websites.
We have adopted it after five years of political debate and in my view we now need to be vigilant with regard to the Member States to see that they transpose it fully and swiftly, and, above all, that these rules are successfully applied in practice.
As you know the Commission and I personally are committed to fully implementing the European action plan against trafficking in human beings which I proposed here at the beginning of 2006 and which this Parliament endorsed.
The action plan should be regarded as a long-term programme which will guide continuous EU action in the near future and in any case far beyond summer 2007.
I am committed to setting up without any delay a hotline for victims and those vulnerable to trafficking, covering all Member States in the European Union.
The above decision has already reserved the number 116000 for hotlines to report missing children.
This consultation was open for proposals until 20 May.
The initiative will take place on 18 October this year.
There was cooperation between 12 European Union Member States.
For example, will the victims of illegal trafficking in humans be able to dial 112 and ask for help?
In the near future there will be only the number 116000 for missing children, and so on.
Mrs McCarthy, your question is relevant, but I am merely complying with the Rules of Procedure.
In answer to the Honourable Member's question, I should like to say that the European Union's strategy in terms of people with disabilities has been laid down in the Disability Action Plan of 2003-2010, where access to ICT is a priority.
Very often they are the people, because there are people with disabilities and very often the elderly have those disabilities too and they represent a very high future percentage of our population.
In June 2006 we will propose strengthening the right of disabled users to access emergency services and introducing a Community mechanism to address e-accessibility issues.
There will be a public consultation on the scope by the end of 2007 or the beginning of 2008 - I do not know yet exactly when - but that will be the time for Parliament and our main stakeholders to come forward with proposals to see what we are going to do with the universal service.
I have seen the enthusiasm with which regional and local governments in particular have taken up the results of our work to provide practical help for the disabled people living in their region. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to Mrs Reding for her very detailed and systematic reply regarding the policies in force.
I really believe that the ageing of the population will first need a response from us on the societal level, but this response on the societal level is also an opportunity for the European industry, because if our industry gets the societal response from the policymakers, from those who are responsible in areas, in regions, in countries and at European level, then they can start to market systems, services and items for the elderly.
The honourable Member asked me what I mean by the expression 'our European way of separation'.
We currently have a framework for telecoms that provide regulatory tools or remedies to the NRAs in cases where markets are not competitive, and in its review of the framework the Commission will be looking at ways of strengthening the single market for telecom services.
So we are not speaking here about forcing dominant players to sell off part of their businesses, as has happened in other parts of the world - for example in the United States with AT[amp]T.
The honourable Member also asked about Greece.
In the case of Greece it would then be the Greek regulator, on the basis of national law in line with the updated EU framework, to take account of competitive conditions and all other relevant factors in the Greek market, and then to propose - or not - such a remedy if he thought it to be necessary and in the interests of the Greek market. (EL) I thank the Commissioner for her reply.
However, I have a feeling that in practice, we have 27 different regulatory systems in the European Union.
I think that has to be changed, because the only way for Europe to stay strong in matters of telecommunications - and Europe is strong, we are really one of the leading forces on the world market in this - is to get rid of 27 sometimes conflicting regulatory systems and come to one system which makes sense and which will also permit cross-border services and investments to take place, and enable us to have big European players which will work across several countries.
Parliament is going to decide on that tomorrow, and that is always a sign to show where we want to go in the future.
Subject: European framework for the safer use of mobile telephones by adolescents and children The entry into force of the European Framework for the safer use of mobile telephones by adolescents and children, adopted on 6 February by leading EU undertakings in this sector, is welcomed as a first major step towards the protection of juveniles from certain dangers arising from the use of mobile telephones.
On 6 February this year, 15 leading European mobile operators and content providers united to sign a European framework for safer mobile use by younger teenagers.
We had seen in our recent surveys that there are many children who use mobile phones - in fact the majority of children over 12 years old.
In Save the Children Finland's survey, 30% of 7 to 15 year olds had experienced bullying through their mobile phones.
So we know that there is a problem, but this does not mean that we have to push the parents now into saying 'no more mobile phones for our kids'.
There must be a well-managed status settlement, and I am confident that, once we have that, there will be no destabilising effects on ethnically mixed areas such as Vojvodina.
However, I would like to underline that it is important that we are both fair and firm with Turkey in order to break the negative spiral in relations between the European Union and Turkey.
At the same time as being fair and credible we can be firm and rigorous, and we can expect Turkey to carry out reforms and respect citizens' rights so that, for instance, the Kurdish question can be addressed or women's rights, trade union rights and freedom of expression can be enhanced in Turkey thanks to the credible prospect of EU accession.
Subsequently, the Grand National Assembly agreed by a broad majority that the early parliamentary elections would be held on 22 July 2007.
You have indeed been forced yet again to repeat what you have said to Turkey on numerous occasions, as you yourself remarked, about the stand it must maintain as a candidate member of the European Union.
Thank you for this very important question, Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou.
But in times of the political or constitutional crises which Turkey has undergone and, to my mind, is going through during this crisis phase, it is particularly important that we maintain a channel of communication and discuss intensively with the Turkish Government and with all the relevant players in Turkish society in order to make clear what the expectations of the European Union are, if and when Turkey wants to become a member of the European Union.
Instead we need clarity and precision and, concerning our statement, it cannot get any clearer than our statement of 2 May. (EL) Commissioner, I am not one of those who want Turkey to be an uncontrolled force in the area.
