The humanitarian situation of Iraqi refugees The next item is the debate on the six motions for a resolution on the humanitarian situation of Iraqi refugees.
author. - Mr President, Commissioner, Iraq is today in a catastrophic abyss and the Iraqi people find themselves in a state of utter despair and shock.
This joint motion for a resolution lists a number of measures that are of importance in helping the Iraqi refugees have a more human existence.
deputising for the author. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I shall read Tobias Pflüger's speech. 'Sadly, not until today have we held a debate on assistance for the Iraqi refugees.
Since the US invasion and the formation of the so-called 'coalition of the willing', more than 600 000 people have been killed.
The number of US service personnel who have lost their lives rises daily and has now reached 3 600.
Allow me to put the spotlight on my comrade, companion and friend, the Member of Parliament Mohammad Hossein Ahwad, the very embodiment of the fight against theocratic fascism, who was assassinated on 12 April in the Iraqi parliament.
author. - Mr President, I welcome the resolution and, like others, I am really concerned about the truly tragic situation that we see in Iraq and on its borders at the moment.
author. - (PL) Mr President, the humanitarian and human rights situation in Iraq is constantly deteriorating.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, we must admit that what is happening and what has happened in Iraq is much worse than civil war - a question that is often posed.
It is about time that those people who participated, those countries in the coalition as well as the willing partners, show responsibility for what has happened to the Iraqi people, especially the refugees who are seeking help - even if they find any help, they find only a minimum amount.
The 60 million US dollars contributed by donors in the USA is just a drop in the ocean.
This year about 40 000 refugees from Iraq will arrive in European Union countries - twice as many as last year - while the USA has accepted barely a several dozen Iraqis this year.
In terms of existing assistance, in order to alleviate the difficulties of the displaced, the Commission, via EuropeAid, allocated EUR 10 million in 2006 to support internally displaced persons.
In February 2007, as a rapid response to the deteriorating situation and following the UNHCR appeal in January, the Commission, via ECHO, announced an additional allocation of EUR 10.2 million, composed of EUR 4 million for the internally displaced and EUR 6.2 million for the externally displaced Iraqis.
We are looking forward particularly to participate in the Sharm El-Sheikh agreed Working Group on Refugees, which, according to the latest indication, is scheduled to meet on 22 July in Amman.
The vote will take place at the end of the debate.
