I wish to point out that the vast majority of Parliament's amendments have been integrated and incorporated into the final text and I thank Parliament for its important contribution.
Firstly – and this is not the only possibility – the final text provides for the Commission to report back to the Council within – not after – four years of the date of implementation on the issue of travel time and loading densities and possibly to modify its approach on the basis of the experience acquired from the application of the new rules.
If enough Member States adopt stricter rules then the political pressure – the peer pressure – on the rest would be much more evident and effective.
There will also be administrative provisions to ensure consistency between checks by officials in different Member States.
The proper use of this technology will contribute to the promotion of a more transparent and high-quality approach to animal transport in Europe, in tune with the wishes of our citizens but also enabling better enforcement.
European citizens have pointed out on innumerable occasions and in many ways that the lack of effective enforcement has been an appreciable weakness of the current system.
I am determined and committed to ensuring better enforcement of animal welfare rules and to insisting that Member States report precisely on the state of play of the controls carried out.
We will continue to press Member States for this information and I am pleased that the new legislation will allow us to do so in a more efficient way.
Therefore, the Commission will continue to be vigilant and will closely monitor the situation on animal transport in Member States.
They were not between the optimum maximum and the compromise, they were between the compromise and continuing indefinitely with the present situation, with all the unacceptable conditions that prevail at this point.
I can assure you that the Commission's only concern on this issue was the welfare of the animals and how to make practical improvements as soon as possible.
It was not just to insist on a principle which eventually would harm the animals, because it would not enable us to improve the existing conditions in any way.
But, the big question and the big challenge will be to convince the Member States to accept this new proposal when it comes. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank Commissioner Kyprianou most warmly for the openness with which he has raised this issue once more.
However, the Council has come to an agreement, and has made a corresponding amendment without giving prior notice to Parliament, which I find very disconcerting and also blameworthy on the part of the Council.
We should have liked to see 100 kilometres, but this was evidently unattainable in the Council.
Animals must be transported as quickly as possible, and introducing the minimum possible number of rest periods for the transit of breeding stock, too – which is undertaken in the main in very favourable conditions – would be a step forward.
I am extremely curious to hear what proposals the Commissioner intends to make before 2009 for the establishment of a good working relationship with Parliament, and also, in particular, for making Member States comply with the European rules. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his words.
I wish the Council every success in attempting to explain this compromise to the European public.
It is an extremely bad one, including for the image of the whole sector, and one that is unacceptable from an animal welfare point of view.
Whilst the EU is taking excessively small steps here towards improving animal welfare, animals in Europe are being dragged back and forth for thousands of kilometres in atrocious conditions.
Agriculture continues to play a very important economic role in the north and west of Ireland.
This trade is worth over EUR 150 million annually.
The Council decision departed so completely from the proposal that I even doubted its legality.
I also hope that you make use of the Treaty’s articles concerning transport, consumer issues or health as a legal basis so that Parliament can participate through the codecision procedure.
If we are regarded as 75-kilo sheep, there will be ten of us in an area as large as a double bed.
If we are regarded as pigs, we shall, in accordance with the Council decision, be given nothing less than electric shocks if we refuse to move.
We shall also be given water only after 14 hours before continuing for another 14 hours.
If we want to defend the right to life and the rights of animals, then we need to approach this from a different angle.
The introduction of the GSP satellite navigation system does, of course, achieve something; it means that checks can be better carried out.
The decisions made by this Parliament on the transportation of animals have been repeatedly ignored and horrendous suffering continues.
To those in the outside world – the real world – who are as appalled as I am by all this, I have a simple message.
Member States can adopt tougher legislation.
We have a majority in favour of this view in Denmark.
When we obtain the new Constitution, Parliament will have the right of codecision and, if animal protection had no longer been subject to Article&#160;37, Parliament would now already have had this right.
Regarding another matter – namely transparency – our Ombudsman expressly stated that the provisions of the new Constitution could properly be used when there was such large support for doing so, so there is a double opportunity for involving Parliament in this procedure right now.
This applies in particular to horses that come to the end of their useful life in the East but are destined to be slaughtered and eaten in the South.
Many animals spend a very long time in transit in lorries, with little to eat or drink, foul themselves, start to panic and suffer injury.
The key question is whether we accept this unnecessary animal suffering in anticipation of a resulting reduction in the costs of the livestock trade and of road transport companies, or whether we consider this suffering to be completely at variance with our civilisation and our responsibility for the welfare of our fellow creatures.
I hope that we are able to achieve real results by the end of the term of office of this Parliament and this Commission, because what is currently taking place is an absolute disgrace. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the transport of animals within the EU and from the EU to countries outside it has on quite a few occasions been comprehensively criticised.
Most recently, we have received information about the disgraceful conditions under which animals have been exported from the EU to Lebanon.
We hope that the Commission will take animal protection seriously and that we do not have to read further reports concerning misused export subsidies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I thank the Commission for raising this important issue for animals and humans.
In fact, in many cases we have over-regulation but also non-implementation.
The new agriculture support system urges farmers to opt for market-led farming.
For all these reasons, therefore, I am bound to congratulate the Council for moving the issue forward, and I look forward to successful implementation of the new text. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Commissioner spoke of the emotions that are present in this House.
Turning to the matter in hand, I would like to say that this is, of course, also about transport times, but what is of the essence is whether the conditions are right, that is, whether the animals are carted off in torment or whether they travel as our fellow-creatures.
It introduces higher standards for the protection of animals in transport, although these standards are still inadequate, and it leads one to hope that animals will suffer less.
There is a need for a network of stopover points where transported animals could be provided with food and drink or given necessary veterinary care.
Ladies and gentlemen... &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there is no doubt that this is an area that makes a big impression upon the European population.
It might well actually have been the case, Commissioner, that if there had been a little more time in which to debate this issue and if there had been a public debate surrounding it in the individual countries of Europe, the ministers would have been rather more amenable.
The big problem in this case is that we think too much about the internal market.
When this legislation is revised, or in other words re-examined, it will be possible to bypass Parliament.
As I see it, that alone is a good enough reason for investigating whether this decision is at all sustainable in legal terms. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the previous speaker mentioned the internal market, but the internal market must be judged by whether or not it operates in a humane way, and by what its effects are not only on human beings but also on other creatures.
Where animal transports are concerned, the issue is clear: whom does it benefit when animals are transported over long distances?
I have to say as well that I am disappointed that my own government voted in favour of this shabby deal; because a few technical improvements are now completely overshadowed by the failure to make any progress on journey times and stocking density.
It is true that Member States can do more.
I agree that implementation is very important.
Even though I understand and share the disappointment of many of you with regard to this regulation, at the same time, we must not, through this emotional approach, disregard significant improvements that have been made to the regulation.
Travel times are very important – that is why they were included in the Commission proposal; but conditions during travel are just as important.
The Commission examined the legal problems referred to in the way in which the decision was taken.
Some of us might have wanted to go one step further, or take one step less, but it is nevertheless going in the right direction.
Implementation is in the hands of the Member States.
Agreement on any future proposal coming from the Commission will again, in the final analysis, be in the hands of the Member States.
This is the first time I have addressed the plenary of this Parliament and it is satisfying that the first proposal that I am dealing with is focused upon the protection of deep-water coral reefs – an issue of great importance to us all.
Doubtless, we will have many an occasion in future, both within this plenary and within the Committee on Fisheries, to discuss issues not only relating to conservation and the preservation of fish stocks but also relating to issues such as deep-water coral reefs.
Having studied the scientific evidence and considering the irreversible damage that certain fishing gear can cause to these unique habitats, we propose in this regulation to ban the use of bottom trawls and similar trawl gear in the areas concerned.
I am happy to note that the rapporteur recommends that Parliament approve these measures, as does the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety in its opinion.
The Commission welcomes the adoption of measures to minimise the impact of fishing on marine ecosystems.
I can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3.
Furthermore, we need to be conscious of the fact that the production of scientific evidence is very much dependent on the Member States and, therefore, the Commission is not in a position to guarantee its availability as prescribed in the amendment, that is, within a specified timeframe.
Not using the criterion of miles offshore means that the connection with national exclusive economic zones can be ignored or minimised as something to be forgotten.
The principle of the European Union’s exclusive competence over the conservation of marine biological resources is thus enshrined in this proposal even before the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty.
Thirdly, there are two kinds of fishing – costal fishing, which is, more or less, or still is almost traditional, and industrial fishing.
The former is penalised, with a terrible impact on society and the regional economies, by the predatory nature of the latter, which, because of its economic and political power, will more easily continue its activities.
Imagine if forests were to be uprooted, if all the animals in them were to die and if the birds were to become silent.
I wish therefore to emphasise that the House should support Amendment No&#160;8, which was adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety but which, unfortunately, was rejected by the Committee on Fisheries.
The zones have a scientific basis we are able to accept. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal, which has been adopted by this Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries, seeks to prevent the use of a fishing technique that is highly damaging to the extremely fragile marine systems of deep-water corals, which not only contribute their own richness to biodiversity but are also important ecological habitats for various organisms at various stages in their life cycles.
According to the Commission, protection is given to the areas around Madeira, the Azores and the Canaries, outermost archipelagos where the traditional fishing methods that have been used for centuries up to the present day have made it possible not only to preserve species but also to maintain thriving fishing communities.
It can be said that there is a lot of water around those archipelagos but there are not many fish or fishing areas.
Commissioner, I ask you to think this matter over more carefully. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Ribeiro's excellent report is on the second Commission proposal seeking to protect deep-water coral reefs from the effects of trawling.
The ALDE Group therefore fully supports the proposal and the amendments adopted in committee, particularly Amendment No 4 emphasising the role of regional advisory councils.
We commend to you the other amendments as adopted in committee.
We can also support Amendment No 6 and the first part of Amendment No 7, since that fits with the precautionary approach.
After considerable thought, we cannot support the second part of that amendment because it could have the effect of leaving some of the coral unprotected.
We hope very much that the Commission and the Council will both appreciate the seriousness of the concerns being expressed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the excellent report by Mr Ribeiro on the proposal for a Council regulation on the protection of deep-water coral reefs from the effects of demersal fishing, more generally termed ‘trawling’, is timely and borne out by many studies in this area.
In addition to the reasons given in the international agreements referred to in the report, the protection of such environments is therefore an important way to achieve not only environmental protection but also stable social and economic prospects for the communities which persevere in the areas in question.
The only way to protect deep-water coral reefs is to prohibit the use of bottom trawls and similar gears.
Now we turn to the other deep-water coral reefs off the Canary Islands and around Madeira and the Azores, and I hope there will be continuation of protection to those areas on a permanent basis.
Deep-water coral reefs should not be destroyed by bottom trawling, but should be protected for future generations to enjoy. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too essentially want to express my support for Mr Ribeiro’s report and the proposals it contains.
Many of the fishing communities in some coastal areas of the Union, such as the Azores or Madeira, do not have any other alternatives at all for their livelihoods or their survival.
The simple acknowledgment of such facts is more than enough reason to adopt any preventive measures that might stop the destruction of those habitats.
The Commission is ready to amend its proposal if there is new scientific evidence or if the Member States agree on such an amendment.
On another point made by Mrs Attwooll, the Commission has recently tabled a proposal on conditions for deep-water fishing, which will lend protection to these important resources. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; I should like to welcome a delegation from the parliament of Serbia and Montenegro, who have come to Strasbourg in order to take part in their first interparliamentary meeting with the European Parliament, and who are seated in the official gallery.
I refer to Budget Line 15 03 01 02 – Leonardo da Vinci Programme, where the amount shown under commitments should be modified to read EUR&#160;205&#160;366&#160;880.
In Budget Line 19 09 03 – Aid to displaced persons in Latin American countries, the relevant amount from the reserve should be entered, namely EUR&#160;54&#160;500 less than the amount given in Document&#160;12.
That is why I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr&#160;Lewandowski, and the two rapporteurs, Mr&#160;Garriga&#160;Polledo and Mrs Jensen.
Take account of the translations intended for the new Member States, which are not done as quickly as those for the old Member States. (2) &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a very brief explanation of why our group has withdrawn its support for this joint motion for a resolution.
Up to a certain point, we were able to support the wording of the resolution as it stands; it also includes many points that we can live with and accept.
There are, however, a number of essential elements in this text that lead us in this Group – after a long debate yesterday evening – to believe at present that it is the Commission that should first state its position on these points rather than Parliament.
We therefore want to adopt the procedure that is normal in every Member State, under which the government first presents its programme and the parliament then states where it stands on it.
We are very disappointed that the PSE Group has withdrawn its name from the joint text, even though it was negotiated by two of their vice-chairmen.
The Member States themselves must decide about such efforts in accordance with democratic decisions in each of those States. &#160;&#160; . – As we all know, the flexibility instrument, which has a ceiling of EUR&#160;200 million, is intended to allow financing in a given financial year of specifically identified expenditure which could not be financed within the ceilings available for one or more other headings.
Overall, I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; . – This proposal to reject the budget for 2005, which my group put forward and to which I made a significant contribution, is not only appropriate but also consistent.
It is consistent, because we previously tabled a rejection of the budget for 2000 at the beginning of the current financial framework, and five years later our criticisms have been confirmed: insufficient funds for economic and social cohesion; underfunding and a lack of suitable programmes in the employment, social, environmental and cooperation fields; problems of execution and lack of transparency; and especially a budget subordinated to the dictates of the Stability and Growth Pact and to making ‘savings’, so as to finance enlargements as well as other priorities, such as war and propaganda, with the same financial resources. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;Many thanks, Mr President.
I should like to explain that I voted in favour of Amendment No 127 in Section&#160;III on funding for World Youth Day, because this does not form part of an official state visit.
If it were not for Mr&#160;Schulz’s ideological obstinacy and reluctance to take an honest approach to the issue, he would not have confused it with an official visit by a head of state, namely the Pope’s visit to the Federal Republic of Germany. &#160;&#160; . – I took an active role in the conciliation meetings which reached agreement on the European Union budget for 2005.
Failure of the negotiations on the enlarged EU’s first budget would have been a terrible political signal to send out to Europe’s citizens.
Compared with 2004, this budget will have an increase of 6.5% and will rise above the symbolic value of 1% of GNI.
The Council, Parliament and the Commission have agreed to a statement by which the level of payments will be examined in mid-2005 and, if necessary, the budget lines in question will be supplemented.
The budget for 2005 is therefore a credible instrument. &#160;&#160; The budget resolution states that the European Parliament regrets the Council’s comprehensive reduction in payments in the agricultural sphere.
We, Mr&#160;Andersson, Mrs&#160;Hedh, Mrs&#160;Hedkvist Petersen, Mrs&#160;Segelström and Mrs&#160;Westlund, do not agree with this.
We believe, however, that agricultural policy is in need of radical reform and we should therefore have preferred there to have been further reductions. &#160;&#160; We chose to vote in favour of Mr&#160;Garriga&#160;Polledo’s and Mrs&#160;Jensen’s report in spite of paragraph 2, which regrets the Council’s reduction in payments to agriculture.
That is a paragraph we cannot support. &#160;&#160; It is unacceptable for the same budgetary line to contain two items of funding as distinct as that for the sixtieth anniversary of the end of fascism and that for the Pope’s visit to Cologne.
I am voting against this expenditure at a time when so many other spontaneous initiatives by young people do not manage to benefit from European credits. &#160;&#160; . – Our position is clear and well known: we are against the war and the US-British occupation in Iraq and we demand the immediate withdrawal of the occupying forces from that country.
Below is a selection of proposed cut-backs: * We believe that the EU should begin cutting back on agricultural aid by no later than 2005. * The subsidy to EU political parties should be completely abolished. * The subsidy for tobacco cultivation should be abolished.
That is not something that will be guaranteed by this amendment. &#160;&#160; . – Consistent with our proposal to reject the Community budget for 2005, we voted against this report, which reflects the degree of hypocrisy and whitewashing that has run through the budgetary procedure that is now ending.
The rapporteur’s comments are realistic and point to a certain inconsistency in the project announced in the Commission’s proposal, that this would be the budget of ‘competitiveness and cohesion’.
Over-exploitation of fishing waters forces people into even greater poverty and robs the marine environment of a vital link in the food chain.
We believe that, if the EU concludes a fisheries agreement with a third country, the total amount of financial compensation for this third country must be funded by those EU Member States whose fishing vessels make use of what is offered under the agreement in question.
These Member States must then each decide for themselves whether they, in turn, will fund this expenditure by taxing their respective fishing vessels. &#160;&#160; . – I voted for this report because of the importance of the issue of fisheries to Portugal, specifically in the case of international fisheries agreements in which the Portuguese fishing industry has a direct interest.
We improve efficiency and we strengthen the role of this Parliament, guaranteeing the principle of democratic legitimacy, which is fundamental for the adoption of legislation on topics as sensitive as asylum and immigration policy and others that involve people’s fundamental rights.
I support Mr&#160;Bourlanges’s report as well as the two concrete proposals that he makes, because: - codecision and qualified majority voting on legal immigration are essential for the management of the Union’s migration policy.
This draft Council decision on the adoption of the codecision procedure is thus a long overdue step towards giving Parliament a greater say in legislation.
This is precisely what the Bourlanges report criticises, and that is why I endorse the report.
I am not sure that the proposed revocation would strengthen the legal protection of European citizens and third country nationals in the slightest, as Mr Bourlanges claims it would.
I think Parliament would do better if it confined itself to supporting the proposal for a decision as presented – which in itself represents a major, ambitious advance for the area of freedom, security and justice – and if it could refrain from embarking on this unhealthy, voracious pursuit of ‘what lies beyond’. &#160;&#160; The measures proposed in the report – those designed to strengthen democracy, human rights and the function of the constitutional state in third countries – are badly required and often necessary.
For these reasons, we choose to vote against the report. &#160;&#160; . – The subject of the Commission’s proposal, which the rapporteur endorses, is to maintain until the end of 2006 a legal basis and a financial framework for operations to protect and promote human rights and democratic principles in developing countries and other third countries.
Participation by civil society should be supported, regardless of the kind of the institutional structure involved in each individual case.
It is imperative that the European Union should continue, improve and intensify the actions described in the Commission communication of 8&#160;May 2001 entitled ‘The European Union’s role in promoting human rights and democratisation in third countries’.
I voted for the report, of course. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will be very brief.
I wanted to say that I voted in favour of the report and that I hope we will be able to make considerable progress in this area in future.
I also addressed a question to the new Commission about this, suggesting the introduction of civilian service for young people in the European Union – whether male or female – primarily to create the right conditions in such situations, resulting in a greater sense of responsibility and awareness among the people in the European Union, not only when disasters strike, but also during a civilian service designed to increase solidarity.
What we must do is work together and exchange information, streamline resources, carry out research and seek technical solutions that limit the damage as far as possible, but most importantly, we must pursue a policy of investing in prevention and education involving political institutions at Community, national, regional and local level and all civil society organisations in a unified, responsible and differentiated partnership.
People say, in their infinite wisdom, that ‘prevention is better than cure’, and this dictum aptly applies to the forest fires that devastated Portugal in the summers of 2003 and 2004 and to the oil spills from the and tankers.
We welcome the fact that the Community action plan in the field of civil protection has been extended and that its budget has been increased, but we also feel that this is an issue that, in light of its permanent nature, should not be subject to time constraints.
When a series of public competences is transferred to private individuals, how can anyone talk seriously of the adoption of a fundamental policy of protection against any sort of disaster?
The purpose of this programme is to protect the citizens, the environment and property in the event of natural or man-made disasters throughout the Community, by making available additional support from the other participating countries when national response capacities are overwhelmed.
On the other hand, the increased funding requested by the Commission is realistic and, in the case of Portugal, particularly important.
Indeed, this type of net also causes serious damage to ecosystems, particularly in the Azores exclusive economic zone, due to the volcanic and rocky nature of its seabed.
I applaud the Commission for tabling this proposal, because in so doing the Commission is keeping its promise to propose an amendment to the technical measures in force in the Community aimed at banning the use of bottom trawl gear up to at least 200 miles around the outermost regions of the Azores, Madeira and the Canaries, with the aim of protecting ecosystems in some of the most sensitive areas located at the ‘seamounts’ outside 100 miles.
The protection of the deep-water coral reefs in the Atlantic Ocean is, naturally, of special interest to Portugal.
The proposal is to ban the use of bottom trawling in the waters of the Azores and Madeira, as well as in the Canary Islands, in order to protect deep-water coral reefs, which are of enormous importance in terms of protecting biodiversity.
The proposal for a regulation before us seeks to ban the use of bottom trawling in the most environmentally sensitive areas in the first 200 sea miles around the Azores, Madeira and the Canary Islands.
Let us keep that in mind, in Portugal, on 20&#160;February of next year. &#160;&#160; There are a number of sensible points of view in the motion for a resolution, but also a number of proposals that it is impossible for us members of the June List to vote in favour of.
In view of the above, we definitely cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. &#160;&#160; .
I voted in favour of the compromise motion for a resolution on the Commission’s political orientations and wish to highlight in particular the pact on the economic, social and territorial cohesion policies.
Without cohesion policies, the EU would be no more than a ‘hyper-market’, an instrument of subordination to the big and the dominant, in all fields.
Against this backdrop, and given that the ongoing reforms can be achieved in time, I am in favour of the idea of Bulgaria joining the EU, depending on ‘own merits criteria’, and therefore feel that the Accession Treaty must be concluded in 2005 so that accession can take place in January 2007.
I therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Mr President, again I congratulate the rapporteur on his report and note with satisfaction the progress that Romania has made towards membership of the Community.
Finally, Mr President, I thank you and your excellent staff for all the cooperation through the year, and wish you a Merry Christmas. &#160;&#160; .
The report before us – following on from the previous ones – assesses progress from the perspective of the overwhelmingly neoliberal and capitalist nature of the enlargement process.
The Dutch delegation from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament reserves the right to adopt a different position in spring when it comes to the definitive decision on Romania’s accession, for instance if it should emerge that Romania’s new government has not kept its promises.
In February 2004, Parliament adopted a report that expressed regret that, despite some progress, Romania still had not completely satisfied the Copenhagen criteria.
In the meantime, as we approach the end of this year, the consensus of opinion is that progress towards accession has been made, although it is recognised that there are still many areas in which this objective has yet to be met in full.
It therefore makes complete sense for us to seek to negotiate the terms of the Treaty in 2005 and that a safeguard clause be inserted in case Romania’s accession has to be postponed until January 2008, which does, indeed, appear probable.
Consequently, I voted in favour of the report. &#160;&#160; .
The importance we attach to this visit, which is the first to the Chamber of the European Parliament since 1995, should be emphasised.
This visit comes at a very significant moment, especially in view of the fact that Saudi Arabia will be holding its first local elections in February 2005.
People are suffering from hunger and health problems as a result of food and medical aid being withheld from areas that are covered by the opposition parties.
The second reason is that on 3 March there is supposed to be an election in Zimbabwe.
The third reason is the intolerable attack on the liberty of Roy Bennett, one of their members of parliament, a man who has suffered, whose family has suffered and whose workers have suffered over the months.
However, according to the statistics, the situation is probably worse in other parts of the country which I did not visit.
We must start to think in different terms if we are to be effective when dealing with a regime of this sort. &#160;&#160; Mr President, political oppression in Zimbabwe casts a long shadow; it is a cloud that lies over not only those living in Zimbabwe itself but also those who have left to seek asylum in Europe.
Therefore I hope that we in Parliament, and the Council and the Commission, will provide the maximum possible support for election-observer missions at all levels. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Zimbabwe has always experienced periods of complexity and profound division, whether under colonialism, at the time of Ian Smith’s Unilateral Declaration of Independence in 1965 and the ensuing UN embargo, during the war of liberation from 1972 to 1978 and then, following independence, in the first democratic elections, which were won by ZANU under Robert Mugabe.
I believe that the only thing we can recommend to Zimbabweans today is to look around them and see how their neighbours have managed it – to look at what South Africa is doing, at what Namibia is doing, at how Angola and Mozambique are trying to establish a balance between the various vested interests in their countries.
Very often, that goes wrong; perhaps you all still recall the European Union’s staunch support for Russia’s President Yeltsin at a time when he was an alcoholic.
After all, numerous Zimbabwean civil liberties and human rights organisations rely on foreign donations.
The Council and the Commission will have their work cut out to advise and assist them in this. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mrs Grybauskaitė, ladies and gentlemen, Zimbabwe is unfortunately one of the topics that figure most regularly, most frequently, in these Thursday debates that we hold on pressing human rights problems.
This tells us two things: firstly, that the situation remains serious and, secondly, that the measures that we have adopted have not been working.
Such is the case of Roy Bennette, of persecution perpetrated against Tsvangirai after his visit to this House, of the negative influence – and I wish to draw your attention to this – that the regime can have in the region, where regimes can choose to follow the path of democracy or to slip back into authoritarianism.
This demonstrates the important role that that organisation has to play in exerting its form of pressure on Mugabe’s appalling regime. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, the Zimbabweans are a strong people, and Zimbabwe is a strong country.
It is sad to see that around 60% of the population is currently in financial crisis and frequently lives below the poverty line.
With the support of the African Union, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), President&#160;Mbeki and all the other contacts, we must increase the pressure, because it is only via the African route and the European Union’s connection with this that we stand a chance of achieving any kind of result.
Nevertheless, it is in that democratic process and in civil society that strength is to be found.
That strength is still great in Zimbabwe, still non-violent and still oriented towards peace and democratic solutions.
Indeed, it is my hope that Europe will make full use of all the means at its disposal to this end. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, a legacy of colonial Southern Rhodesia is that much of the Zimbabwean farmland is in the hands of a small group of farmers of European origin.
Unfortunately, that wish is being seriously abused by Robert Mugabe, the man once popular as the leader of the successful war of liberation against the colonial occupiers and the racist minority Government of Ian Smith.
If Europe isolates this regime, it must do so not on the basis of old colonial interests and old colonial arrogance, but because we want to help every country in the world promote human rights and democracy.
That is what this is all about. &#160;&#160; – Every nation has the right and responsibility to resolve its political problems and no-one, let alone the European Union, Britain or the United States of America, has the credentials to intervene politically, economically or militarily either in Zimbabwe or in any other country.
The Commission reiterates its attachment to the holding of free and fair elections in that country.
The Commission fully supports the proposed EU in Harare and other SADC capitals as well as the issuing of an EU declaration expressing concerns regarding the implications of the bill.
The Commission is aware of the deliberate attempts by the Zimbabwean authorities to undermine the visa ban's credibility by multiplying their travels to Europe and has always advocated a strict application of the exemptions provided for in the Council common position of 19 February 2004.
Continued international pressure on Zimbabwe and especially regional peer pressure is necessary. &#160;&#160; The vote will take place this afternoon, after the debates.
That is why we see it as important that massive pressure should be brought to bear on the states bordering this country of great lakes, and especially on Rwanda, in order that it may bring stability once and for all and may be deterred from active intervention in Congo, which is already suffering so much.
Of that I am glad, and I am sure that you are well able to handle this issue of peace and human rights in Congo. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is the most lethal since the Second World War.
The Congo's natural wealth has been a source of private funding for military and political elites instead of benefiting the vast majority of the Congolese population.
The problem in the Congo is neither ethnic nor racial.
It is about economics, and only if we tackle economics will we solve the problems. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I speak in place of Mr Van Hecke, who has had to leave Strasbourg early as he is travelling to the Democratic Republic of the Congo tomorrow.
The current situation in eastern Congo shows that the Congolese peace process is still very fragile.
The ALDE Group warmly welcomed the initiative to draft an urgency resolution on the Congo.
In the report on asylum and sustainable solutions that Parliament adopted yesterday, one of the things we agreed was that the European Union's common foreign policy and common security policy needed to focus on conflict resolution and prevention, paying special attention to long-term conflict situations.
We also regret the need but welcome the fact that the UN Department of Peace-Keeping Operations has set up a special investigative team to look at the cases of sexual abuse and exploitation perpetrated by some of its own members in the UN organising mission in the DRC, particularly in Bunia.
We must therefore be more effective in this area in order to stabilise the region.
We must strengthen the resources available to the United Nations’ mission in order to guarantee genuine peace and stability in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo and to succeed in creating conditions on the ground that do not take us backwards; in other words, conditions that lead all sides to honour the 2003 peace agreements, that lead all sides to honour agreements undertaken in Tanzania on 20&#160;November of this year and that lead all sides duly to comply with United Nations Security Council resolutions. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Amongst the many examples of violation of human rights and democratic principles in Africa, the involvement of children in armed conflicts stands out as an extremely serious problem.
The humanitarian crisis that these actions generate is an additional reason for our concern.
The European Union is and remains the largest humanitarian aid donor in Congo and will continue its assistance. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
The vote will take place after the debates.
The next item is thedebate on six motions for resolutions on Bhopal. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, in today’s debate we are discussing issues we do not usually touch upon.
The people of Bhopal tried to escape the poisonous cloud.
We must also attempt to see each angle of an issue such as the Bhopal disaster, and we should acknowledge the work that has already been done by the Indian Government and the Madhya Pradesh Government with regard to medical care, economic and social assistance, environmental clean-up, and finally financial compensation.
This is a role for the Commission, Member States and governments alike.
I would urge you, therefore, to pressure all those who can bring any relief to those who have already suffered in Bhopal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, while Dow Chemicals and the Indian Government argue over who is to blame for the Bhopal disaster, the people continue to suffer and die from their two-decade legacy.
The Indian Government has also yet to spend USD 330 million of the original compensation given to them by Union Carbide.
It is easy to see, then, why the governments of these countries thought that all new industries were to their advantage, in particular large-scale metal and chemicals industries.
These countries had held little attraction for this kind of industry in the past, not only because the workforce was still insufficiently trained, but chiefly because most customers were in richer parts of the world and transporting finished products was expensive.
The need for stronger industry in these countries was and is abused by industries from the rich North because, although these industries want to expand, the southern countries are still not very important as markets whilst their purchasing power remains low.
The gas explosion twenty years ago in Bhopal and the way in which this was dealt with have a great deal to do with this.
Neither Union Carbide nor Dow Chemical nor the Indian Government are willing to produce sufficient compensation for the 20&#160;000 or more people killed, for more than 100&#160;000 people left with permanent injuries, or for cleaning up the contamination of soil and ground water.
The figures range from 3&#160;000 to 7 000 on one night; 15 000 later on and 100 000 people still suffering from debilitating diseases.
We in this Parliament do not do well when we seek to be judge and jury in these cases.
Research has shown that, 15&#160;years ago, compensation to the tune of USD&#160;470 million was agreed on by Union Carbide and the Indian Government.
This is where the role of the European Union within the framework of the UN and within the framework of other international organisations may be more efficient.
The motion records the problems which still exist and numerous honourable members spoke about them in the area of Bhopal as a whole.
To close, I consider that the best way for us to express our sympathy with the victims and their families is for the European Commission to take initiatives in cooperation with the World Health Organisation on the implementation of medical and environmental restitution programmes. &#160;&#160; – &#160;Mr&#160;President, Mrs&#160;Grybauskaitė, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Grybauskaitė on her assumption of office, and to wish her the best of luck.
It is an important opportunity for us to reflect on the way in which we can offer help to the victims and how to prevent that set of disasters from occurring in future.
At the recent EU-India summit held in The Hague, India reconfirmed its interest in pursuing an environment dialogue with the European Union and proposed the organisation of an EU-India environment forum.
This forum will be a first step in tackling the enormous environmental problems that threaten both India and the European Union.
Let me finish by expressing our deepest sympathy for all the victims and our firm hope that such a catastrophe will never occur again. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
I wished to vote in favour. &#160;&#160; Your comment has been noted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to raise another point of order.
