The MEDIA 2007 programme is structured in the same way as its successful predecessors, MEDIA and MEDIA PLUS, covering training, development and sales in the audiovisual sector, but not production, which is a matter for the Member States to deal with.
It is unfortunate that the Council could not, in the course of negotiations, be prevailed upon to accept this sum, which was reduced to EUR 671 million, so we have managed to maintain the status quo without achieving any further development.
Mr President, today's proposal for the adoption by the European Parliament of the common position on the decision to implement a programme of support for the European audiovisual sector is due, I would say, to the personal persistence and systematic work of a great many people, especially the rapporteur, Mrs Ruth Hieronymi, whom I too, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, honestly congratulate, together with the leading person working on the MEDIA series of programmes, Commissioner Reding.
In cooperation with the European Commission and the Council, we have come to the final version of the text of the MEDIA 2007-2013 programme, which gives especial added value to the development of the European audiovisual sector which, apart from its economic benefit and importance and the anticipated contribution to the development of employment in the European Union and of the competitiveness of the audiovisual industry, also has a particular social and cultural value.
Thanks to the contribution of the European Parliament to the strengthening of the pre-productive and post-productive stage of the majority of European audiovisual producers, the new MEDIA 2007 will continue to highlight their importance for the promotion of cultural dialogue and linguistic and cultural heritage.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I also would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Hieronymi, on her work and Commissioner Reding on her work in support of this programme.
I support the continuation of the MEDIA programme for the period 2007-2013.
We are told that the programme will cost EUR 671 million.
It is therefore to be hoped that the MEDIA 2007 programme will help to redress the balance.
Strengthening European cultural diversity and European cinema production is a noble aim, but it can only be achieved by simultaneously strengthening the competitiveness of the European audiovisual sector.
The development and promotion of European films is of decisive importance to the maintenance of cultural diversity and economic development and employment.
MEDIA 2007 needs to help combat the lack of cross-border circulation of European works.
The reference in the report to the regional and local levels is very important, because it focuses on the need for real diversity in the European Union.
Also, we have to support independent producers in order to enrich audiovisual output and make it more in tune with reality and with European culture. (EL) Mr President, if you watch television in any country of the European Union and do not see the news, you think that you are in the United States.
The debate is closed.
