The White Paper will cover all sports, and there will be no football-specific approach.
The ultimate goal of this initiative is first to mainstream sport into other active policies of the Union in order to improve its use as a tool for EU policy.
The White Paper will address many of the issues which Mr Belet raises, such as social cohesion, protection of young workers, social dialogue and the free movement of workers.
We could share the idea of promoting the training of young people, as well as sending a signal to the clubs that they should invest in the training of young people and not only in transfers of players.
The Commission welcomes Parliament's call for intensified social dialogue in the football sector.
The Commission will continue to support employers' and employees' organisations in the whole sport sector and it will continue its open dialogue with all sport organisations on this issue.
It shows that good preparation and coordination with other Member States are very effective in preventing crime and especially hooliganism.
Council Decision 2002/348/EC obliges Member States to establish national football information points.
This is a positive step in improving cooperation between police forces and other bodies that combat football-related violence.
The 50th anniversary of the Rome Treaties is colouring many of our objectives this year, and what a good way it was to celebrate the anniversary with a football match in Manchester two weeks ago.
rapporteur. - (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the very idea that Europe, the European Union, should have any say in matters relating to sport makes some people's hair stand on end.
We have taken maximum account of the EU's competences in this area, as there is little point in pulling the wool over our own eyes, certainly not when a complex sector such as professional football is involved, in which millions of young people take a direct interest.
rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his support for our reports, and would also like to stress the importance of this joint debate, since I believe that the future of football is fundamentally linked to stadium security.
For this reason, placing the future of professional football together with security in stadiums is a practical way of developing a debate on the future of sport and football.
The Commissioner is right to say that in recent years we have seen constantly recurring displays of violence in the stands, and these have transformed the very nature of the sport: the huge number of incidents of violence, displays of intolerance, and acts of xenophobia and racism are signs of a fundamental change in a sport that is one of the best loved and most supported by Europe's people.
It would be unthinkable to have football games without spectators: in some cases extreme measures have been taken which, in my view, have damaged the spectator nature of the sport.
Since the presence of spectators in the stadiums is vital, we must insist that football games are always played in front of a crowd, and this means that appropriate measures need to be taken to ensure that the games are played in perfect calm, without displays of violence or racism.
Preventive action must therefore be taken to avoid the repetition of similar acts of violence in stadiums.
The Council adopted this decision in 2002, establishing a national information point on football, which functions as a point of contact for the exchange of police information in relation to international football games.
The results of this measure have been very positive, as can also be seen from experience in the stadiums and relations between police forces.
I think this is an important point: the agencies responsible for monitoring the presence of supporters in the stadiums and obtaining data on the nature of organised supporters groups are undoubtedly a useful tool but they must operate exclusively in accordance with national laws and in compliance with European directives and international agreements on the protection of personal data.
National and international laws must apply in stadiums too, precisely in order to ensure that acts of indiscriminate violence and displays of racism and xenophobia are not repeated.
It was therefore time for the European Union to take up this issue, and to do so as we have done, I believe, in the European Parliament.
We have therefore taken up this issue with the aim, which I believe is shared by this Parliament, to respect both the European 'exception' regarding sport, not least in comparison to the way in which professional sport is managed in the United States, and the various bodies and organisations in charge of professional football: federations, professional leagues, players' associations, agents' groups and so on.
We welcome the fact that this report points out that immigration laws are made to be complied with, even in the world of professional sport, even in the world of football.
As Mr Belet pointed out, the financial sums at stake, today, in professional football, are exponential - huge - and there is a need, in this regard, for social dialogue, and clearly for regulation and redistribution.
Draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - Mr President, the Committee on Legal Affairs would like to remind colleagues that one thing that underpins the European Union is the rule of law.
But we would remind colleagues that there are a wide variety of instruments in the EU Treaties that could be use to protect young players, to deal with players' agents, to provide for group exemptions to competition law, and to interpret whether sporting organisations provide services of general economic interest under Article 86 of the EU Treaty.
Clearly, what we all want is for football to be successful, for teams to thrive - we support success - and we also want to ensure that clubs like Accrington Stanley are well-catered for and their supporters are able to support them.
Just a moment ago Karlheinz Rumenigge was here in the European Parliament.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank the rapporteur, Mr Belet, for having sought to reach a compromise among the various committees and political groups of our Parliament.
This compromise was voted on in committee, and here we find, today, that crucial points have been amended, namely the independent regulating body and the legal status of sports companies.
Nevertheless, I hope that it can establish a form of cooperation between UEFA and the European Union with the aim of cleaning up as much as possible the world of football, for, as the UEFA President, Michel Plattini, pointed out, football is a game before a product, a sport before a market and a form of entertainment before a business.
On the one hand there are enterprises worth billions, like Real Madrid: on the other bankrupt clubs like Sturm Graz.
If money alone determines football, then Europe's most popular cultural asset will lose its defining characteristic: its sporting spirit.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, soccer has moved from being a sport and providing entertainment to being a money-making machine and a way of gaining power.
Thirdly, financial and other support is needed for countries, organisations and clubs investing in young people and sports facilities.
Local, national and international leagues and competitions are best left to the football authorities to organise.
I and my Welsh colleague, Jill Evans, have tabled amendments 28 and 29, which I hope will be adopted tomorrow.
A football game which is being played this very evening illustrates why these amendments are important.
Top-level football influences not only its own players and spectators; it also constitutes a world in which children and young people in particular find their role models.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, the EU has no competence over sport and nor should it.
Football is the most popular sport in the world.
We need only think of sponsorship and the value of television rights, marketing and the increasing number of international competitions, which in turn have effects on various sectors, and the new social and cultural problems generated by them.
This jeopardises the educational role of sport - in this case, football.
But, as many Rangers fans from Glasgow in Scotland will tell you, policing at international fixtures needs to be friendly and sensible, rather than hostile and over the top.
We did not want to do battle with the big clubs either, or attack the traditional clubs, but rather fight for a fair balance between small and big clubs.
Football also has a social or cultural dimension.
However, the closest links are those forged within the local communities.
That is where fans go week in, week out to see games and it is where many clubs, such as Reading Football Club in my own region, invest in football in community projects.
Now, 12 years later, we have an own initiative report which lays new foundations with prospects commensurate with the values of the European Union and of more popular sport, or rather football.
The digital era should be about more choice for consumers.
However, this positive function and role is today being increasingly compromised by those who want to make games in stadiums into yet another setting for violence and terror.
Safety in the stadiums should therefore be our priority and the key word should be prevention.
For this reason I fully agree with the call made in the Belet report for all the Member States to introduce cooperation mechanisms between clubs, supporters' clubs and police forces, to combat the violence, hooliganism and delinquency which we see more and more, including during the games.
I also agree on the need to step up sanctions against any display of racism or xenophobia in stadiums and for UEFA and other bodies to apply appropriate disciplinary measures to anyone responsible for any such behaviour.
A preventative measure that is equally fundamental, however, is to reinforce and professionalise cooperation and the exchange of information between national bodies when international matches take place.
To portray it in the complete opposite way of what is intended is completely disingenuous. . - (PL) Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating both rapporteurs, but Ivo Beleta in particular, on the results of the work they have undertaken.
Finally, I would like to point out that the field of sport, including soccer, has become an area where the free movement of workers is truly taking place across the whole European Union and I hope that this will also soon be the case in other sections of the European Union's labour market. (ES) I too would like to thank the rapporteur, above all, for the spirit of cooperation he has shown in the drawing up of this report, a report on the future of professional football, which is not just important for football, since it deals with problems that have recently been increasing throughout the world of sport: violence at sports grounds, racist acts, doping, lack of financial transparency, etc.
Finally, I hope that the Commission will take account of these suggestions from the European Parliament when drawing up its White Paper on sport. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, mirroring the right of every citizen to access to justice, pursuant to any of the constitutions of the Member States, Article 47 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights enshrines that right for people whose rights and freedoms guaranteed under Union law have been violated.
For this reason, access to justice for a natural or legal person must never involve any form of disciplinary infringement.
This can also be seen in a human dimension that is very important for European citizens, which is sport in general and football in particular, because of their educational function and the role they play in social and cultural integration and also in combating discrimination.
This integration process was caused in part by the positive effects produced by the Bosman ruling, which in 1995 set out to create freedom of movement for football players.
In this context it should, however, be pointed out that professional football constitutes an economic activity recognised by Article 2 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
We have had close and regular dialogue for many years with bodies like UEFA and FIFA.
The remaining points for the Commission and in the coming White Paper on sport are the following key words, which are a kind of mosaic for our relations in sport: specificity, subsidiarity, autonomy and, of course, diversity - which is so visible and important in not only culture but also sport, transparency, rules-based activities and relations.
We have now received 670 contributions and more than 200 of these are collective, i.e.
I should like to thank all Members of the European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
Written statements (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (IT) Football is deeply rooted in European identity and culture.
Particularly, but not exclusively, for young people, it constitutes a vital instrument of social cohesion, informal education and economic and regional development.
Above all, I hope that by supporting activities, meetings and events at local and European levels (and particularly by promoting access for young people, including disadvantaged youth), it will be possible to develop and protect the smaller sports and clubs that, throughout Europe, are an important tool for the civic education of our citizens.
in writing. - (IT) I would like to express my appreciation for and agreement with the work accomplished by the rapporteur.
I therefore believe that the right approach lies not in laying down new laws but in pushing the world of football towards forms of self-regulation that can encompass all those directly concerned - all participants, including football supporters.
I would particularly like to emphasise the need to encourage education of young people, the application of severe disciplinary measures to combat violence in stadiums and racism, the involvement of supporters in the management of football, the identification of a transparent system for the control of costs, fair competition between the clubs, and insurance protection for players.
For all these reasons, the adoption by the European Commission of the White Paper on the role of sport in Europe is eagerly awaited, and the drafting of an action plan for European sport in general and football in particular would be extremely welcome. , in writing. - Due to the increased occurrence of relatively important incidents within the framework of football matches, one can only welcome the Austrian initiative to amend the regulation concerning security in connection with football matches.
The assessment of the international police cooperation following the European Championships in 2004 highlighted clearly that it is necessary to increase the international information sharing on risk supporters.
By preventing and controlling violence and disturbances in connection with football matches, through international exchange of information allowing every Member State to make efficient risk assessments, the aim should be to help reaffirm the moral and educational values of football and even sport in general.
Racism and xenophobia are social problems that are being expressed ever more strongly not only in our daily lives but in the world of football as well.
From week to week, we have been able to witness firsthand serious racist incidents at football matches, and, in Central and Eastern Europe, intensifying anti-Roma sentiments.
The European Commission and the governments of the Member States must take part, along with the football clubs, in the struggle against the racial hatred manifested on sports pitches.
