(1) &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on: - The European Council report and Commission statement European Council (Brussels, 12 and 13 December 2003); - Council and Commission statements Meeting of Heads of State or Government on the IGC (Brussels, 12 and 13 December 2003); - Statement by the President-in-Office of the Council The work of the Italian presidency.
I pointed out in the clearest terms that the European Parliament supports the balanced outcome of the Convention as regards the different institutions and their roles in budget-making.
I explained what that Convention procedure was and what its balances amounted to.
The final point I made for Parliament regarding the Intergovernmental Conference and Parliament was to invite the IGC to ensure that Parliament should not be used as some kind of last-minute bargaining chip, where the numbers of Members in this House would increase regardless of our ability to be effective.
These were the points I made on behalf of this House to the IGC.
Finally, with regard to the outcome of last weekend, there is no doubt that the failure to agree in the IGC represents a setback.
At the formal opening of the Intergovernmental Conference, the Presidency’s intention was to reaffirm these concepts by means of the Declaration of Rome adopted by the Heads of State or Government of Member States, of acceding countries and candidates to the European Union, President Cox and President Prodi.
We have remained faithful to this approach throughout the negotiations, reconciling the desire to preserve the Convention’s draft to the greatest extent possible with the obligation to give due consideration to the legitimate needs of all the Member States with regard to their priority issues.
Thanks to this impressive, patient, meticulous work&#160;–&#160;for which I would like publicly to thank all those involved, in particular the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr&#160;Frattini, who is sitting here on my right we have been able to resolve almost all the questions raised by the IGC participants without much diminishing the overall level of ambition of the Convention’s draft.
I would add that, on some aspects in particular that absolutely crucial aspect of defence the IGC has supplemented and improved on the Convention’s draft, succeeding in defining permanent structured cooperation that is fully compatible with the Atlantic framework and respectful of the political needs of certain Member States.
This fundamental step forward will be made in accordance with the decision-making procedures of the Union using an inclusive approach that will allow some countries to proceed more rapidly on the basis of a specific protocol governing the military capabilities required for participation in this permanent structured cooperation.
In practice, to start with, this point seemed very problematic.
In the course of the most recent bilateral meetings that the Presidency conducted at a spanking pace through the days and nights of Thursday, Friday and Saturday, a solution to some of these issues appeared possible, although all the Heads of State or Government assembled felt the need to point out that the institutional framework of the future Union should ultimately be evaluated in its entirety by means of a general, all-encompassing agreement.
As regards the number of Members of Parliament, Mr President, there was practically no debate: the countries with smaller populations asked for one more Member, taking the number from four to five, and all the other countries assented.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to illustrate the most important results of the European Council that has concluded the Italian Presidency’s six-month term of office.
I do so with particular satisfaction, not only because we addressed important matters, but also because the decisions we have adopted are the result of intense work carried out with all the countries sharing responsibility.
These results have been made possible by an excellent relationship of cooperation with the Commission&#160;-&#160;which I would like to thank&#160;-&#160;and worked on in a spirit of open, constructive dialogue with Parliament, to which I would like to express my appreciation once again.
Firstly, the December European Council formally approved what we have called the ‘European Initiative for Growth’, a measure proposed by the Italian Presidency which was developed by Ecofin and the Commission with a contribution from the EIB.
We set ourselves a two-fold objective: to create, by means of these projects, the conditions for improving the quality of material and immaterial infrastructure networks dedicated to linking up the great European market, especially with a view to enlargement, but also help to boost economic growth overall, and therefore employment, with adequate financial support.
There is no point in hiding the fact that, as individual States, now that the single currency has been adopted, we have no means of implementing monetary policy or economic policy; we cannot devalue our currency in order to support our products and exports; we cannot use deficit spending policies, even medium-term policies, to observe the Maastricht criteria.
With regard to a different, more specific matter, although still in connection with strengthening the internal market and boosting growth, we then reached agreement on the adaptation of the trans-European transport networks TENs to the new context of an enlarged Europe.
In this same framework, the European Council has ratified the agreement on the decision to double the contribution from the Union budget increasing it from 10%, as provided for up till now, to 20% for interventions on cross-border sections.
The symbol of the conference was a giant created by Jonathan Swift, the giant Gulliver, held prisoner by the Lilliputians.
We must give this fact all due consideration, for the European economy is going through a difficult time, which I fear will become even more difficult given that the economy is gripped in a vice consisting, on the one hand, of the United States economy, which is expanding rapidly with the support of an injection of USD 350 billion decided upon by the Bush administration, an economy sustained, first and foremost, by rates of taxation which are the lowest in the Western world, and, on the other, by the Far East economy, which is in a state of almost total anarchy, with no rules being observed where either workers or the environment are concerned and not even minimal fiscal control.
European entrepreneurs welcomed the creation of the Competitiveness Council, which will, from now on, have the task of assessing the impact of measures adopted by authorities and European institutions on the competitiveness of our businesses.
I would also like to mention the understanding reached recently on the proposal for a directive on takeover bids.
Thanks to this agreement, we can now say we have helped to define a key element for the completion of the internal market.
With the objective of putting the Community institutions increasingly in touch with the citizens’ real needs and interests, the Italian Presidency has worked on strengthening the security of the Union’s citizens in the knowledge that, even more so than other issues, it is on this matter which is particularly relevant to the daily lives of us all that the effectiveness of the Union’s action will be judged by public opinion.
One of the central themes of our work has been the development of common strategies in the field of the management of migratory flows.
In the first place, the concept of ‘common external borders’ has been further reinforced, and, in that sense, the European Council has taken note of the agreement reached on the main constituent elements of a special Community border management agency.
The decision has been taken to set up the agency and the Commission has committed to making it operational as of 1 January 2005.
The European Council has also taken note of the adoption, at the Presidency’s proposal, of a special programme of measures on immigration by sea, a tangible sign of the Union’s particular concern over the often tragic phenomenon of the attempts of illegal immigrants to reach our coasts with results, I would point out, that are often genuinely disastrous.
As regards this point, too, we must inform the European Parliament of the meeting, held in the presence of the Presidency and the Commission, of the five European countries bordering on the Mediterranean and the five countries of the North African coast.
These countries, when invited to take part in bilateral agreements by individual European countries, declared themselves willing to participate in cooperation, which would make it possible to control departures from their coasts.
The Presidency has paid due attention both to the issue of the reception and integration of legal immigrants and to the issue of persons in need of international protection.
We are awaiting, in particular, a Commission study on the relationship between legal and illegal immigration, a study that should also include the matter of the establishment of European entrance quotas.
To this end, we have gone ahead with the process of fully integrating migration issues into the Union’s external relations.
This is a mechanism called for by the Thessaloniki Summit, on which we very quickly achieved an interinstitutional agreement with the European Parliament by means of a regulation establishing a new programme of technical and financial assistance to third countries in the field of asylum and immigration.
The European Council has highlighted the importance of interfaith dialogue, a matter to which the Italian Presidency dedicated a special conference in Rome in October as an instrument in the integration of the immigrant communities in Europe and, more generally, as an instrument to aid understanding and cooperation in international relations.
In this context, the European Council’s decision to accept the proposal presented by the Presidency, on the basis of discussions with various partners, to boost the Union’s planning capacity according to procedures compatible with the role of Nato and the ‘Berlin Plus’ agreements, takes on special significance.
On the basis of this agreement, which was the result of diplomatic preparatory work in the months preceding the Summit, we will now be able to work with greater peace of mind to provide the operating conditions in the respective locations for agencies which will supplement the work of the Union institutions in a number of major sectors.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brussels European Council has taken place just a few months before the entry into force of the Accession Treaty.
The enlargement set to take place in 2004 looks increasingly set to be a complete success, thus confirming the wisdom of the decisions taken by the Heads of State or Government at Copenhagen in December 2002.
Turkey, too, has completed a substantial part of its institutional reforms and has made further progress towards compliance with the Copenhagen political criteria.
Moreover, we have also given Turkey our recommendations and encouragement to continue in this direction, while also highlighting the areas in which Ankara is being asked to make a particularly intense effort.
Equal importance was accorded to the results achieved in these six months in the context of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership and, in particular, on the occasion of the Conference of Foreign Ministers held in Naples on 2 and 3 December 2003.
I would like to point out that, on that occasion, the creation of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly was formalised, we agreed to set up the Foundation for Dialogue between Cultures and Civilisations and we provided for a substantial increase in the EIB’s Euro-Mediterranean Facility, all in the anticipation and hope of a genuine Euro-Mediterranean Bank being set up handling capital from the countries of the African continent too.
Therefore, the Union will have to commit itself to strengthening cooperation with the United States in order to convert that community of values that lie at the root of our historic relationship into a community of actions.
A common commitment to combating terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction will be central in this regard.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as outgoing President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, I would like to leave you with a message of confidence.
For this and for the strenuous efforts they have made, I want to express my thanks publicly to the political leaders of the government and the whole team, both those working in the various institutions in Italy and the Permanent Representation in Brussels.
The last act of these six months was the Summit of Heads of State or Government that ended in Brussels last Saturday.
This Initiative is the most visible part of a general plan of measures to stimulate the European economy.
We have invested years of work in the undertaking, bringing together under the same roof 105 delegates from democratic bodies across Europe: national parliaments and governments, representatives of the European Parliament and members of the Commission.
The Convention did a good job.
I am also thinking of the increased role of the European Parliament, to which the draft Constitution gives, at last, greater decision-making powers in the area of the Union's budget.
As regards other issues, in particular the procedure for amending the Constitution, there was just not enough time.
Lastly, on the issue of the drafting of the Constitution, the principle of one Commissioner per Member State was already there in essence.
The problems identified in the Laeken declaration still need resolving; the basic text is still that produced by the Convention.
Although there is no sense in pointing the finger and pinning the blame on any particular national delegation, I must stress that we cannot shape our institutions with the possibility of blocking decisions as the only parameter.
In line with the Laeken declaration, I still believe the solution cannot lie in a combination of vetoes but in the convergence of interests and proposals.
The right of veto is not an expression of democratic will and our institutions cannot side step the rules of democracy.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently seeking a common solution and I realise that this is terribly difficult when there are still so many important issues on which agreement has yet to be reached.
I therefore hope that future European Councils will come back to the issue of our Constitution with a realistic timetable and also with an overall perspective that we have, perhaps, lost in the course of recent months.
Some are thinking about a vanguard of pioneering States paving the way for greater cooperation and serving as the foundations for a stronger and more closely integrated Union open to all.
Solutions of this kind are part of the tradition of European integration, and if we cast our minds back, we see that such solutions emerge first and foremost when things are at their toughest and most complex.
I ask you to bring your political wisdom, your farsightedness and your experience to bear in the service of the first Constitution for a united Europe.
I know there are many of us in this House who see the European Union as the only viable answer to the challenges of history and politics.
We need a European constitution in order to be able to defend our European values in the world.
I would like to thank the Italian Presidency and the President of the European Council for having managed to get agreement – as you said – on 82 points.
No one European government is in the right, and nor will we get caught up in apportioning blame, for once started on that, we will soon come to recognise that almost all of us bear a large part of the responsibility for Brussels having been inconclusive.
Let us defend what we have achieved in Europe rather than jeopardising it.
Next Thursday and Friday, we will be in Dublin, and I hope that the Irish Presidency will do everything in its power, starting by sounding out the individual governments as to their positions, so that the foreign ministers can then achieve a result that will enable, in due time, a summit of the European Union to be held, at which the European Constitution can be adopted.
This is not a day for apportioning blame, but a day in which, despite the difficult situation in Europe, to have faith and to keep working on Europe – with patience, but also with the passion that the task demands.
I say this with particular feeling, because my country was always in the vanguard of European integration and now it is in the rearguard.
I must also say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you have said – and I believe this must be recorded in the Minutes – that 95% of the Constitution is not subject to debate, but is part of our .
I have been particularly struck by the fact that you have been especially critical of the current situation in the economic field and this is understandable.
What you have said would justify reconsidering the issue of economic governance.
The important thing now is to complete a Magna Carta, which is absolutely essential for our future and also for enlargement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Liberals in this House expected rather more from the presidency of a country with a proud European tradition.
It may be possible to relaunch the European Union.
I would like to underline the extent of the concern felt by Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House and beyond and our feeling that the actions of the larger Member States are plunging the European Union into a crisis which could endanger the democratic nature of our Union.
There is nothing on Guantanamo Bay, despite the explicit demand of this House that our leaders should uphold the rights of the detainees.
I was extremely critical of the text at the time, since I and my group saw it as constitutionalising the liberal model by perpetuating the most contentious part of the Maastricht Treaty both in its direction and as regards the institutions.
First because the course of liberal Europe is not affected by this failure.
It will continue for one simple reason: it is unfortunately not the subject that divided the 25 governments.
All the problems so forcefully raised in the growing public debate on the draft constitution, in the recent European Social Forum for example, are therefore still on the table.
This failed prelude to an enlarged Europe is likely to have a devastating effect on all who have real ambition for Europe – an alternative ambition to the present treaties, but a strong ambition nevertheless.
Only too glad of an opportunity to pull out, the richest countries are threatening to cut back the funds intended for the least developed.
It is a caricature of the idea of closer cooperation between nations, some of whom want to see a more advanced social model and some a more independent and more offensive international policy prevail without waiting for an impossible unanimity of 25.
In my view, it is this level of ambition, more than ever, that will have to shape the next stage in European policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, by way of assessment of your work at the helm of the European Council, all we need to do now is say that the Union is not stronger or more united than it was six months ago, that your government’s contribution to increasing the cohesion lost during the battle over Iraq has been insignificant and that your statements on Chechnya, your failure to produce an initiative on the death penalty and the support and lack of criticism you showed for the Bush and Sharon governments have reduced the already poor credibility of the Union as a player on the world stage.
Your Presidency, however, will be remembered, above all, by Europeans for the failure to achieve agreement on the Convention’s text.
This will be the case even if you, with the help of your television networks, succeed in convincing the Italians that success was achieved because you have managed to win the seat of the Food Safety Agency for Parma and to produce an agreement&#160;–&#160;as yet still on the drawing board&#160;–&#160;for the funding of a couple of tunnels and a useless bridge.
Of course, it really would not be fair of me to say that the reason for this failure lies entirely in lax preparation or in the original approach of bilateral meetings which provided for no plenary discussion and prevented everyone from forming a clear idea of what the mysterious compromise proposals were or of who was for or against what.
I will tell you something else: I do not believe that we can genuinely say today that there is a consolidated agreement on the majority of the 82 points put forward by the Italian Presidency, points which, moreover, are largely unacceptable because they represent a step backwards, and not just with regard to the Convention but with regard to Nice too.
There are many others, starting with those who rejected double majority voting at Nice and are now setting themselves up as unlikely European political heroes.
Therefore, we accept the challenge posed by the crisis: it might lead to a better Constitution for the future.
However, we need to take note of the fact that the governments of both old and new Member States of the Union are unable to reach unanimous consensus on a viable Constitution for Europe.
The Irish Presidency will not succeed where Italy has failed.
Otherwise, the plan must be to relaunch the constituent process after the European elections. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the Italian Presidency for its work in a difficult situation, both because of international developments and because of the tragedies that have struck several of the European peoples, Italy, in particular.
The Italian Presidency said that keeping the peace&#160;–&#160;and, therefore, combating terrorism and disruptive forces across the board&#160;–&#160;and pursuing stable prosperity for our people and for all the countries whose people live in difficult, tragic conditions because of hunger, poverty or lack of development, or, as is all too often the case, because of oppressive political systems, are the primary tasks performed by society.
The European citizens need clarity and efficiency and the Council has a duty to define unambiguously the political, economic and cultural role that Europe must play on the world stage.
The citizens of the 25 Member States of the Union want neither a federal superstate nor a Europe consisting merely of a free trade area. &#160;&#160; Split over Iraq, failure in Cancun, snubbed in Sweden, the stability pact wrecked, and now the constitutional fiasco, 2003 will indeed have been the for Europe!
I do not really know to whom we owe this ‘miracle’, Mr Berlusconi; whether it is the Spanish, the Poles or, as many are saying here, the French, I think they have acted wisely since it is very obvious that the Europe of the 25 has not grown up and it was premature, to say the least, to give it that mark of political and democratic maturity that is a constitution.
Let us have mercy therefore on Turkey, Mr Berlusconi, and let us think again for a century or two, maybe even longer.
But let us calm ourselves and be consoled: we might not have a European constitution but we have won over the ! &#160;&#160; Like the Constitution then, it may become immortalised! &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, this Europe has acted in the same way as it did at the time of the Balkan crisis and the Milosevic atrocities; in the same way as the Europe which, even today, has no position on the Middle East other than the short-sighted positions of each of its parties and factions.
This is not the Europe of Robert Schuman or Konrad Adenauer either.
We need to go back to that time, to the Europe of our Parliament, whose primary task must be to break free from its shackles.
The lack of unanimity reflects divisions that are real within Member States, divisions which are too readily dismissed and which perhaps have been too readily dismissed in this particular debate.
This Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which met yesterday evening with a great many representatives from national parliaments, has expressed a common, deeply-held feeling of disappointment and concern, together with a common determination to help in every way possible for the constitutional process to be resumed and brought to a proper conclusion.
It is a fact that when the process of drafting the constitution or revising the Treaties stopped being a government monopoly and was entrusted to a European body on which representatives of the national and European parliaments also sat – that is to say, the Convention – the work proceeded in a European spirit and an agreement was reached that was based on the common interests of Europe.
When the process was handed back to the governments with the Intergovernmental Conference, individual interests and even matters purely of national prestige prevailed in crucial areas.
The constitution cannot emerge out of a watered-down compromise.
Well, we still want to know what solutions have been found for the 82 points and they have to be made public, so that we can see what substance there is to these solutions.
Our message – as you, Mr Cox, have mentioned – is that the Irish Presidency should interpret this mandate in a broader and more inclusive manner, extending its consultations so as to make good use of the Convention’s advice and contributions.
The fact that the IGC has failed makes the process and the outcome of the Convention more attractive.
For them to be able to succeed they will need assistance and there is nobody more capable of proffering advice than the Convention itself, which should be recalled in January to consider the full package of presidency proposals that was published on 9 December.
In the 'passerelle' clause, will the blocking of a single parliament be able to paralyse it?
Parliament has a need and a right to know the answers to these precise questions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think it is impossible not to see that we are faced with a setback.
You have reduced the conflict that Europe is experiencing to a clash over the political aspect of Europe&#160;–&#160;whether it should be as much as possible or as little as necessary&#160;– in short, a clash between Europhiles and Eurosceptics.
You have thus stayed within the same real model and have called this conflict – which is over who should make decisions and how – a model when it is not, distancing yourselves even further from the peoples of Europe.
You have chosen to constitutionalise the market at a time when neo-liberalism is failing and, although you prefer peace, you have considered war possible, in these terrible times when the world is racked by wars and terrorism.
The chairman of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party used the word in all its harshness.
The first point is one of method: from a different relationship with the peoples, movements and democratic public opinion of Europe.
Europe, as the President-in-Office has said, is caught between the political process in the United States, where the dollar favours their competitiveness, and the aggressiveness of economies like China’s.
Mr President, what really needs attention is the rights of the workers and the peoples.
If we do not make a new start based on this reality, Europe can have no future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr&#160;Berlusconi, at the opening of the Intergovernmental Conference, you amused your colleagues with a joke about how you might make the people happy.
There are three kinds of failure: you can lose to your opponents, you can fail to achieve goals that are set too high, and you can be your own downfall.
After the partial failure of Amsterdam and the total failure of Nice, they have now, finally, failed.
All that we can now do is to appeal to the governments’ sense of reason in persuading them to accept the Convention draft, Europe’s highest common denominator, after all. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nothing surprises me any more since I have been sitting in this Assembly.
At least, that is what I used to think, because this morning I confess I am surprised, but not at the outcome of the Brussels European Council or the failure of the Intergovernmental Conference.
I have said on a number of occasions, including here, that I never imagined for one second that the Heads of State or Government, who represent the highest democratic authority in the Union, could reasonably agree to the draft European Constitution prepared by the Convention as it stands, without amending it – at least that is what the ukases of the majority of this Parliament wanted.
No, what surprises me is the behaviour of the federalist majority here present, whose blindness it must be said is beyond understanding.
But if you look things calmly in the face, you will see that the cause of this fiasco is not the Italian Presidency, whose excellent work I commend in passing, nor the attitude of some Member States, who have courageously defended their national interests as their peoples demanded, but quite simply our Convention and its incredible draft constitution.
In rejecting a division of power based on the federal model, Spain and Poland have rendered Europe a great service by finally saying out loud what many others have been quietly thinking for months, namely that the old Europe of Jean Monnet inherited from the division agreed in Yalta is dead and gone.
Let us build a political Europe which, while never denying its history and taking into account the constraints of modernity, tends towards an ideal of freedom and not of uniformity. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am pleased that we are now being given a little more time in which to discuss the Constitution.
In Denmark, we are to be given a referendum, but the June Movement would like to help gather signatures for referendums in all the EU countries.
In the President-in-Office’s speech, I was pleased to hear the reference to issues closer to the citizens, who, I believe, are not particularly interested in whether voting is by double majority, whether Spain should have 27 rather than 28 votes or other such things.
Ten years ago in this Parliament I was arguing for exactly the same things, so I was pleased to hear the President-in-Office of the Council calling for them.
My great concern is now that everything is running through our fingers.
I believe that it is for this reason that, on two points, we have to make it clear what we do not want.
This could provide a basis on which the Irish Presidency of the Council could put forward proposals for holding a new meeting of Heads of State or Government as soon as possible, although the timetable has to be planned in such a way as to make compromises possible.
This meeting must be held, and must resolve matters, before 1 May, when enlargement is due to take place, for this project is, logically speaking, intended to enable the European Union to be enlarged.
I want to give a second reason why this meeting should be held before 1 May, which is that I do not know how, if things remain as they are today, the Heads of Government and we in this House can face the voters on 13 June.
It is for this reason – so that the voters can have a perspective that keeps them from losing faith in Europe – that it is from this point that the Heads of State or Government must make a new start before 1 May.
I hope, Mr President, that you will, in the remaining weeks of your presidency, join with your successors in setting a project of this kind in motion. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the weekend’s summit is a source of danger for Europe, but I want us to be consistent.
For years, we condemned lowest-common-denominator compromises; this time, the lowest common denominator would have been a ‘Nice&#160;II’, which would have destroyed the draft constitution.
We in Europe’s Parliament will not now allow this draft to disappear back into the archives of history.
Working to keep it there will be our first priority in the coming months and years, and we will have to keep working to that end even after the next European elections with our new fellow-Members here in the European Parliament.
In a stronger and united Europe, there are, on the one hand, governments that seek to use it as a means of promoting their national interests and, on the other, there are governments that want to defend their interests against it.
While you are in Brussels, fighting tooth and nail over influence, Europe is in the process of losing all influence in the world.
Mr Prodi has honestly expressed the extent of the failure and the risks associated with it, and has started to mark out a possible route for the future.
I say yes, Mr Prodi, to an initiative by pioneer States for a Europe that in no way underrates the importance of this broad Union extending from Portugal to the Baltic States, but you know we have to move towards an effective, democratic integration of the Community based on the results of the Convention.
This is the objective around which we should and can unite as from tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there is no doubt that the Brussels fiasco has landed the European Union in a grave crisis.
This is the first failure of an enlarged European Union, even before the accession of new Member States.
Only 38% of the public at large have ever heard anything about the Convention and only a fraction of them are familiar with the text.
The degree to which they are right about this is demonstrated, to take one example, by the fact that the IGC as a whole did not even once turn its attention to the inherent contradictions between Part 3 and Part 1 of the draft, and by the manifest fact that two mutually antithetical economic philosophies are to remain in the text of the constitution – the social market economy on the one hand and free competition on the other.
I urge you to have an open discussion with the public about the constitutional project, and, above all, take seriously the serious criticisms that civil society makes of the Convention’s draft. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have just seen a spectacular failure in European integration on the part of the Heads of State or Government, who have not been sufficiently statesmanlike to see and preserve the collective interests of all the citizens.
It is time to leave behind intergovernmentalism and to move towards becoming a full political entity, a supra-State with common laws for all the peoples and nations of the continent or at least for those who wish to build a common future based on dialogue, trust, understanding amongst equals and good for all. &#160;&#160; Mr President, however it may appear, the Brussels Council on the European Constitution failed for three reasons.
But perhaps especially because, knowing the state of mind of their fellow citizens, they wanted to defer the problem until after the European elections.
In reality, Mr President, it was the citizens who blocked the European Constitution, even though they were not consulted directly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, practically all the parliamentary groups and – it appears – all the Member States claim to want a new legal framework for the Union in the form of a Constitution.
Work by many people over many months has resulted in a proposal with which a great majority appear to be in agreement.
Apparently in Brussels six months has not been enough time to complete a compromise.
The Irish Presidency must simply carry on working where the Italian Presidency has left off.
He indulges in this type of national opposition in the European Parliament and is then surprised that he loses election after election.
Mr President, we must keep the IGC open, we must contribute to dialogue and the commitment we all aspire to.
Let us pray that we achieve it before 13 June. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is clear from the debate here this morning and in yesterday's discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that Parliament is divided into two camps.
The pessimists point out that we are in a major crisis, perhaps, I have heard it said, the biggest since the rejection of the EDC Treaty in 1954.
The optimists say no, because 95% of the draft Constitution has not been challenged and has virtually been agreed though I would like to see the text of the final versions of these articles that have virtually been agreed at the IGC.
It is true that business as usual can go on to a degree on the basis of the old Constitution, namely the various treaties that we have, but these treaties are not satisfactory.
This is why I turn to you and to the Members here to underline the extremely serious attack on the multiplicity of information posed by the Gasparri law on broadcasting.
The advertising market is also in practice dominated by the companies he owns.
I turn to you, ladies and gentlemen, with bitterness, concern and anxiety, and ask you: what can this Parliament do to protect the freedom of information in Italy?
Please help us, please help my country to save the democracy for which the forefathers of our Europe battled. &#160;&#160; Mr President, between some people’s euro-scepticism, some people’s arrogance and the stubbornness of others, the governments of the Member States and their leaders are endangering the adoption of the Constitution that the peoples and the citizens want and need.
Their fight solely over the right of veto not only caused the Brussels Intergovernmental Conference to fail, which is what happened three years ago at Nice, but also managed to obscure the positive aspects and the shortcomings of the draft Constitution, stifling real debate in European society and in our various States and Nations.
These factors have obscured the extraordinary value of the existence of the Constitution, the progress made in external policy since the crisis in Iraq, the leading role given to Parliament and consequently to the citizens, and the shortcomings of our policy for social and territorial cohesion, the failure to recognise national political diversity in Europe as well as in the Member States, which I wish to highlight as a Member of the European Parliament for Galicia and as Chairman of the Intergroup on Stateless Nations.
Mr President, I wish to make it quite clear, since most of us are citizens of the Spanish State - that we are not judging the Constitution on the basis of our State Government’s potential power of veto and that we do not share the stubbornness of the current Prime Minister, José Maria Aznar, who distinguishes himself now and then by his talent for making enemies and by obstructing the solution to all problems.
There are many more of us who wish political and social union to progress, united in diversity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, please allow me to congratulate you on the award of the Charlemagne Prize, which is also good news for this Parliament; a Parliament which, since 1984, has wanted a Constitution, through the Spinelli Treaty, then through the Herman, Oreja and Colombo projects which called for the establishment of the Convention in 1997 and which, after Nice, opted for the Convention.
Firstly, we must recover our common sense, and there are a series of things we must not do: we must not talk about dividing Europe, about dividing ourselves, the Europeanists, up; we must not talk about founding countries, about pioneer or vanguard countries, as if to reproach those countries which do not seem up to the job; and, at this time, nor should we send letters to the President of the Commission telling him to reduce the budget to 1% of GDP.
You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have said that 82 solution measures have been proposed.
Let us consolidate them under the Irish Presidency and, before 1&#160;May 2004, let us resolve the outstanding institutional issues and let us go into the elections of 13&#160;June asking the Europeans to vote for this Constitution. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you can hardly be surprised that I am not rising to ask you about what has been achieved as regards the constitution.
I take the view that it would have been one of your tasks as President-in-Office of the Council to make this landmark a reality, for the fact is that the failure to introduce the European arrest warrant means that, from 1 January 2004 onwards, the position as regards criminal prosecutions in Europe will be worse than on 31 December 2003.
The absence of the European arrest warrant will make it more difficult to prosecute criminals from 1 January 2004 onwards.
Precisely whom this state of affairs is meant to benefit, Mr President-in-Office, I have no idea, but I know full well who is put at a disadvantage by it, namely the citizens of Europe.
If we want to establish this area of security, freedom and justice, if we want to make Europe more secure, if we want to guarantee more efficient prosecution across frontiers, if we want to combat organised crime more effectively, then this landmark in the area of security, freedom and justice is what we need.
Today, I have to say, with regret, that, on this issue – and let me repeat myself, we are talking here about the accelerated introduction of the arrest warrant, which was necessary in July – you have, lamentably, not only failed to do your homework, but have, in my opinion, proved yourself an outright failure. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the tendering directive, the single European sky directive, the directive on takeover bids, the agencies, the concrete work on economic growth&#160;– one need only recall the decisions made on major public works and the finance mechanisms associated with them&#160;–&#160;and the careful analysis launched by the Italian Presidency, followed by specific proposals on competitiveness, a subject which lies at the root of the Lisbon process which is only slowly taking shape in the way we want; the specific measures on immigration – which should take place legally with flows regulated by individual countries’ requirements – with particular regard for the border control agency; the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly and the Foundation for Dialogue between Cultures and Civilisations, whose main task will be an assessment of the dialogue between religions in the hope of curbing fundamentalism, since this is terrorism in the making; the action in the Middle East – where we have worked hard towards a dialogue between the two sides, and Italy in particular has also provided a venue – with the launching of an intervention plan with a EUR 5 billion budget for the next five years: these are undeniable achievements that attest to the generosity of the Italian Presidency.
I will not mention those involved but rather the issues: a two-speed Europe, the emphasis on closer cooperation, a Europe made of concentric circles, in which all share the same policies but each group remains open to new associations – this is not the political scenario that the 25-Member Europe needs.
We must not lose what lay at the heart of the Convention: the general interest of Europe, which gave rise to the decision to abolish national veto rights in most cases and proposals for a transparent and credible voting system.
In the general interest of Europe we must make a fresh start and work with new formulas that we can create if we so wish. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, the American hyperpower has just scored a double victory.
After dividing Europe by unleashing the war in Iraq, it has just prevented Europe from giving itself the constitution it needs to operate with 25 members, at the very moment when it was arresting Saddam Hussein.
Since 1986, the European Union has experienced a divorce between the nature of its project and the institutions able to sustain it.
Before now, we did not have the right to frame the question in those terms.
But because enlargement reverses the numerical ratio, it forces us to raise the question of the institutions in such stark terms.
That double legitimacy existed in the Convention.
Let us note those things where we can make progress, but let us not give to those 82 points.
Those who still want to provide our continent with the conditions for its stability must take up the flag again. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it would be wrong to say of the Intergovernmental Conference held in recent weeks that it was a failure.
On the contrary, under the Italian Presidency we were able to keep the basic ideas of the Convention virtually intact and agree jointly on 22 of the areas involved.
We cannot be biased and point an accusing finger at the country currently holding the presidency nor even at Poland or Spain.
A return to genuine double majority voting – half in respect of the population and half in respect of the countries – must certainly be one aspect of the solution which would also reassure the small countries that they are not going to be dictated to by the large countries in the future.
If that happened we could really say that the Brussels Summit and the IGC have failed. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the failure of the draft constitution has obscured the fact that a number of positive decisions were taken at the Brussels summit, on such matters as, for example, the European security strategy.
If Europe acts together and presents a united front, we too have the opportunity and the capacity to get things done together.
What this means is that both the Italian and Irish Presidencies of the Council must now carry the message that we have to work in order to bring about a common Europe with a common constitution and with as many Member States as possible.
We must not allow our vision to fade away, nor must we, under any circumstances, abandon a common Europe with a common constitution! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe will never be finished, but we must press on with the project for political union with determination and vision, and on a Community basis.
Whenever the future of Europe depends on unanimous approval by the Council rather than on agreement between the Community institutions, crisis is in the air.
It happened with the sanctions against Austria, it happened with the Iraq crisis, it happened with the Stability and Growth Pact.
So let me conclude by saying that the Convention has not failed, the Commission has not stood in the way, Parliament is not putting the brakes on a Europe that is more democratic, more transparent and closer to its citizens.
We say a forthright ‘no’ to unanimity and ‘yes’ to a dual majority, which is democratically fair, ‘no’ to the apportionment of blame and ‘yes’ to shared responsibility in Europe, ‘no’ to a more nationalised internal policy and ratification process and ‘yes’ to their becoming more European, ‘no’ to the Intergovernmental Conference method and ‘yes’ to the Convention in which governments and parliaments are represented, ‘yes’ to a European Union of peoples and citizens, ‘no’ to an intergovernmental core Europe, ‘yes’ to shouldering our responsibilities within Europe and around the world, ‘no’ to a reduction of Member States’ contributions.
We say ‘yes’ to the idea of summoning the Convention after Christmas in order to discuss the failure of the Intergovernmental Conference and in order to speedily implement all that came out of the Convention, or was agreed at the Intergovernmental Conference, and is feasible on the basis of current law. &#160;&#160; Mr President, let us send a positive message to the citizens, huge numbers of whom have supported the work of the Convention and the draft Constitution it has drawn up: in 2004 – whether one likes it or not – Europe is going to have a Constitution.
The Convention was a success and the Intergovernmental Conference is a failure.
And naturally the European Parliament must play its historical role as a driving force, in this case as the driving force for the European Constitution. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should subject everything that happened last weekend to a very sober analysis.
Let me put that question in very graphic terms.
The reason why the Convention was so very successful was that this issue was the cement holding the whole thing together.
What is within the EU must be made capable of sustaining enlargement.
Not only are we disappointed, however, the overwhelming majority of European citizens, who are in favour of a European Constitution, are also disappointed and perplexed.
Enlargement without a Constitution is something that can no longer be contemplated, less still accepted.
This is something that the recalcitrant Member States must understand.
We cannot and must not fail in our confrontation with history.
It was an expected disappointment, perhaps, – but no less disappointing for that – to find that a year’s work by our 105 members of the Convention could be called into question in a few hours for futile considerations of the respective weighting of the different member countries of our Union.
I therefore hope that Europe will go beyond mere words and commit itself, in reality and not just virtually, to constructing the instruments necessary for establishing its objectives and implementing its strategy in this field. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, you have heard a great many criticisms which I endorse but which there is no reason for me to repeat.
I want to dwell on something correct which you said when, speaking of the statute of the European Central Bank, you pointed out that it was inferior to the statute of the Federal Reserve Bank, because it does not contain the objective of supporting economic activity as well as the objective of price stability.
It is important that you are the first Prime Minister and President of the European Council to point out the shortcomings in the statute of the European Central Bank from such an official tribune and I thank you for that.
It is worth remembering that 95% of what was decided by the Convention was adopted by all those taking part in the IGC.
It should also be highlighted that the Italian Presidency has remained faithful to the commitments made in this Chamber six months ago, starting with the decision not to put its name to a low-profile compromise that would be an affront to the work of the Convention.
Some of the Members from my own country seeking visibility or lost consensus also seem to care little about European matters when they use this House to talk about local issues, and unconvincingly at that.
The answer was clear: only three countries out of 15 will have taken the necessary measures by December; four others said they would need three or four months longer; the other eight countries are even further behind.
Mr Schulz, you cannot really be asking the Italian Presidency or any Presidency to overrule the sovereign voice of the national parliaments – that would be unthinkable.
What is even more disconcerting is the lack of prospects that can be inferred from your terse statement handing over to the Irish Presidency.
We welcome the growth initiative but it will not be enough because only control of the economy, at least in the euro zone, can ensure the recovery and quality of the European economy.
Lastly, Mr President-in-Office, information.
You are aware that, during the six months of your presidency, this Parliament decided to enhance the status of media freedom and multiplicity in Europe, particularly in Italy.
The fact that the President of the Italian Republic sent back to parliament the dreadful, dangerous law on this issue that was presented by your government and voted for by a majority in it confirms these concerns.
I also believe that Europe should not be divided into a first-class and a second-class Europe, which would be profoundly wrong and would only dampen that enthusiasm, passion and desire for Europe and for common action that I have witnessed over these months of close contact with the government leaders, and not only the leaders, of the ten countries preparing to become members of the European Union.
The considerable achievements of the Convention and of all the countries during these six months must be enhanced and maintained: let us not forget that the Intergovernmental Conference began on 5 October and went on until 13 December.
I wish, in this respect, to reassure everyone who has spoken about what remains from the work of the Convention&#160;–&#160;work that we have always sought to praise and to improve upon&#160;–&#160;and the work of the Conference.
Clearly the final decisions of the Conference that I inserted in the concluding statement approved unanimously by all members have not been examined carefully.
I would like, therefore, to read you a paragraph, which might perhaps seem pointless, but I feel I must underscore it: ‘The Italian Presidency has conducted the Intergovernmental Conference with the intention of keeping as close as possible to the Convention’s draft, fruit of an in-depth, democratic debate, open also to examining in a constructive spirit the proposals of each Member State in order to consider legitimate needs’.
A second point: this hard work has led to the definition of a text on which the great majority of Member States have agreed and which will, from this point on, be considered an indisputable , thus completing a significant step forward along the road to closer integration of the countries and citizens of the enlarged Union.
In response to Members’ questions, I would also like to point out that these points are all contained in the proposal presented by the Italian Presidency after the Naples Summit; this proposal is available on the Italian Presidency website along with the text of the European defence agreement reached in Brussels on the first day of the new meeting.
I will respond to just one of the objections that have been raised: the fact that the Italian Presidency did not have formulas for a watered down compromise on the aforementioned majority decision method.
The Italian Presidency held out for the system envisaged by the Convention: that of 50% of the States and 60% of the population.
When we realised it would be impossible to reach an agreement, and since agreement on all the other points was possible, we resorted to temporary formulas, proposing that we should maintain the Treaty of Nice until 2014 and introduce the system envisaged by the Convention from 2015 onwards.
Some Member States said yes, others no.
It was not possible to reach agreement on these proposals, which are not either watered-down compromises or otherwise but are aimed exclusively at providing Europe with a new Constitutional Treaty straight away.
This is, therefore, not the conclusion of a debate but the continuation of a search for an agreement that I am sure will soon be reached – I hope under the Irish Presidency or the subsequent Dutch Presidency.
Therefore, the Constitution project has not failed.
The desire of all our governments to achieve a constitutional treaty for Europe was strong and everyone felt responsible for the failure to reach a decision.
Nevertheless, we believe that a solution on the majority vote to replace more than 50 years of unanimous voting can still be found, and the desire to find one is unanimous.
This is not a simple problem since, with the majority vote, Member States clearly give up their sovereignty on many matters, and that means it will be a very difficult birth.
This birth will have to have the support of the various national parliaments and will probably also have to be put to a referendum in the various countries.
I believe, however, that there is a unanimous desire to move in this direction.
The Intergovernmental Conference’s sixty days of work were fruitful.
I should, however, like to make an observation that I think is of vital importance: be careful, ladies and gentlemen, not to throw away in a few minutes all the work done in preparation for the Brussels Intergovernmental Conference, by hastily describing proposals on which there is not yet agreement as an .
While it is true that a consensus seems to have emerged on many points, particularly at Naples, for instance on the Council presidencies, research policies and a great many other fundamental issues, this consensus does not actually exist.
I refer above all to the large number of decisions on the return to unanimity, degrading not only the text of the Convention but also the Treaty of Nice; not to mention, ladies and gentlemen, the lesser role envisaged for the European Parliament in approving the budget procedures.
It is clear that the overall result of the negotiations and bilateral concessions does not mean total acceptance by everybody, not even if you look for agreement on the lowest common denominator.
This is the best way to solve them, and for that reason the Convention text remains our constant point of reference.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last meeting before the fifth Christmas we will have spent together, and the last of this Parliament and this Commission.
The inability to reach agreement was caused by the enormous contradictions between the largest European powers and their divergent interests.
It is obvious, however, that they had the more or less open support of other countries.
Although the interests of neoliberal capitalism unite the right and social democrats in Europe, the interests of individual nations, international alliances and of various economic groups do not match Franco-German interests.
One example is how the Bush Administration has shared out the contracts amongst its friends, allowing US and European companies to work in Iraq.
This gives new hope for the battle that we must continue to fight in order to achieve a Europe of greater social justice, development, economic and social cohesion and of peace and cooperation with the peoples of the entire world. &#160;&#160; .
The example set by many small nations, independently negotiating their own terms and conditions at the IGC, underlines the need for Scotland to regain her independence and therefore the full rights of participation and voting in all international negotiations. &#160;&#160; . – The European Summit has ended in complete failure; no Constitutional Treaty has been established.
Unfortunately, though, it does illustrate once again that this way of decision-making, involving Heads of Government who have to reach consensus behind closed doors, does not work.
To my group, what remains paramount is that the Constitutional Treaty must culminate in one voting Commissioner per Member State, and in the election of the President of the European Commission by the European Parliament.
It relates to the long negotiations we have had since the Seville European Council, between Parliament, the Commission and the Council on the issue of better lawmaking.
The challenge of this agreement was to improve the quality of lawmaking in the Union through a greater focus on relevance, transparency, coordination and effective transposition by Member States.
Secondly, the three institutions will seek collectively to programme our legislative workload.
I believe our delegation succeeded in bringing Parliamentary scrutiny and transparency into this process in a real way.
On behalf of Parliament I want to say that we, as an institution, will apply this agreement fully and firmly.
It is an important step forward which anticipates perhaps some of the areas to be covered in a future constitution.
Having had this great signing ceremony, it is up to us to make the agreement work. &#160;&#160; I am informed by the services, Mrs Jackson, that the process will come into place gradually.
However, your comments will be passed to the President of Parliament so that he is fully aware of the position and wishes of this House. &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; The next item on the agenda is a vote on two questions concerning parliamentary immunity.
I think it is right that our Assembly should allow the Members in question to address the full Assembly in the same way as they are able to do in committee.
It seems to me that, in institutions that are rightly very concerned about rights of defence, that would be a natural guarantee and I will shortly be lodging with the competent committee a proposal to amend the rules to that effect. &#160;&#160; Your wish is well within the Rules, Mr&#160;Gollnisch.
You can therefore easily give me two minutes.
If, though, the changes over the past few years are to be taken into account, then the 1991 Regulation urgently needs to be adapted; the proposal put before us by the Commission is a good one, and one that we can largely accept.
Above all else, both its text and its rules have become simpler and more comprehensible.
The scope has been more clearly delimited, and that is something that we do not always see.
I am sure we are much better informed on this matter now. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment requires clarification.
I personally am in favour of its substance, and, like the majority in this House, I also voted in favour of it at first reading stage, but the Council could not be persuaded to accept it.
We have just voted on a compromise with the Council.
Amendment No 38 is not part of the compromise package agreed with the Council, but Amendment No 58 is, and replaces it.
I believe that if we vote in favour of Amendment No 58, we will be making it possible for the directive to be adopted without a conciliation procedure.
Somebody asked me, ‘How, if you have principles, can you compromise on such important issues?’ I believe that Europe demands compromises of us in matters of policy in order that we may make progress.
It is an important step towards unifying the markets and providing greater efficiency.
I have taken note of the position expressed by a majority of Members.
In accordance with the arrangements between Parliament and the Commission, I will raise the issue in the College of Commissioners in order to consider carefully the Commission's position under these circumstances.
Milk is a product of strategic importance to the economy of the Azores, due to the economic activity and jobs that it creates, accounting for 80% of regional gross agricultural product and 25% of national milk production and because it provides income for around 5&#160;000 highly productive milk producers.
The process of stabilising the milk and dairy products market must be achieved whilst ensuring that Azorean farmers have a reasonable amount of time in which to adapt to the constraints imposed by the regulatory instruments and that their traditions and way of life are respected, in a broad framework of understanding for the specific problems arising from their location in an outlying region.
The proposal for the Community Tobacco Fund is in keeping with the imminent reform of the regulation, which aims to shrink tobacco farming until it no longer exists.
However, any such move would spell ruin for tobacco-producing countries such as Greece, because the areas farmed with tobacco are not suitable for other crops, in that they are mainly located in barren mountain areas and are almost the only form of employment and method of survival available to the people who live there.
This has become even more relevant with the enlargement of the Union, because otherwise, for every amendment tabled to this Directive or to its annexes, national implementing measures would have to be established in 25 Member States.
The intention is also to facilitate legitimate trade in precursors within the internal market, used for legal and legitimate purposes, such as the manufacture of medicines.
Given the growing increase in the production of and trade in synthetic drugs, effective and rigorous monitoring of the manufacture and marketing of these substances must be set up, as they can be diverted to the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
Similarly, and given that these substances are not used exclusively in the illicit manufacture of drugs, but also for legal purposes, we must ensure closer cooperation between the industry and the public authorities.
Culture is a part of our society that operates best without political interference.
The sum proposed for 2005 and 2006, of around EUR&#160;67&#160;million, is particularly low, given that enlargement will have taken place.
This framework programme seeks to establish a common cultural space, by promoting cultural dialogue and knowledge of the history, creation, and dissemination of culture and the mobility of artists and their works, Europe’s cultural heritage, new forms of cultural expression and the socio-economic role of culture.
Bearing in mind the consolidation of the European project – something we all wish to see – I would highlight the usefulness of this intercultural dialogue and the need to maintain, promote and disseminate the cultural diversity of the Member States, which constitutes one of the Union’s greatest assets.
When implementing a policy of cultural cooperation we must, therefore, shun narrow-mindedness, the cultural ‘monologue’ and, above all, historical revisionism in the light of utopian projects.
Finally, to completely rewrite the treaties was over-ambitious and at the last moment it became evident that a good number of problems had not been dealt with properly. &#160;&#160; – The report deals with the procedure for adopting derogations concerning the creation of a common system of value added tax.
Similarly, it will result in comparable levels of quality and safety in all the Member States.
On the basis of the positions of my group, the GUE/NGL, I voted against block Amendments Nos 1, 3 and 4 and Amendment No 38 and I voted in favour of block Amendment No 2 and Amendment No 58.
This means combating trafficking and the huge profits of the health-related industries and groups involved in such tissue and cells.
We must combat the attitude that life can be turned into a commodity, which means that transparent criteria and rules are needed, without jeopardising scientific research for therapeutic purposes.
This is why my group supported the compromise solution that was voted for. &#160;&#160; . – The lifting of the anonymity of sperm donors is the least controversial point in this proposal.
The correction of defects and injuries of the human body by means of tissues and cells, on the other hand, remains a sensitive issue.
If it transpires that by means of stem cells, defects and injuries of the human body can be corrected, then it is short-sighted to rule out this alternative in advance.
Nevertheless, as I am aware that this directive is of the utmost importance, I supported the compromise that was achieved, which is also supported by the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, of which I am a Member.
This is excellent news for the fight against a number of incurable diseases, which can increasingly be treated by transplanting human cells and tissues, and it gives new hope to many of our fellow citizens.
The principle that the human body is not to be treated as a commodity is also recognised, avoiding it being regarded merely as a source of financial gain. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there are too many Members in the Chamber.
Otherwise, I shall begin to give my explanation of vote. &#160;&#160; Mr Fatuzzo, the order of the House requires me to call you now.
This has led to the impoverishment of a large number of pensioners, workers and citizens and I hope the European Union takes steps to ensure that no similar situations occur and intervenes to tackle problems affecting citizens of all European Member States who placed their trust in their governments’ controls. &#160;&#160; The right of ownership is a fundamental prerequisite of the market economy.
The fundamental prerequisite of the control that will take place though the directive on takeover bids must be respect for the right of ownership.
Let us hope that this provisional compromise will become the norm: it in fact foreshadows a more pragmatic and less standardising view of the European market, which in our view is the right one.
We regret, however, that this compromise did not include the question of ‘golden shares’ or in French, which some States use to maintain a public interest in large privatised enterprises, especially when there is a risk of foreign takeovers.
The Portuguese-Italian compromise arrived at in the Council and adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs strikes me as the best possible result in a complex situation.
Stipulating the Europe-wide applicability of Articles 9 and 11 whilst allowing the Member States the option of not making them binding on their businesses, although not ideal, is the only compromise possible, to which the alternative would be not having a directive at all, and nobody wants that.
A small step in the right direction is always better than marking time on the spot for years.
I would argue that there are a few highly strategic areas in which the Member States should be accorded special rights, which they would be entitled to use in the event of takeovers.
The directive's original goal, namely to create equal conditions for company takeovers across the entire EU, has been completely eroded away.
The fact that the Council and Parliament have accepted this proposal demonstrates once again that national interests still prevail over enhancing the competitive capacity of the EU as a whole.
Articles 6, 9 and 13 represent an improvement on employees' rights.
For the EPLP, it comes down to question of political judgement: Is it better to have no directive thus allowing the continuation of an unregulated market for takeovers, with no disclosure or transparency of corporate structures and little or no guarantee of employees' rights to information and consultation, or, is it better to vote in favour of a directive allowing substantial progress on creating a open, transparent framework for takeovers, introducing new standards to guarantee both employees' and investors rights?
He believed in his product and in his contribution to progress for his town or region.
This is the third proposal for a Directive and I have given it my support because what we are now seeing is the outcome of overcoming many obstacles and heated debates, in the context of institutional cooperation and consultation, which I welcome.
In fact, strengthening the internal market and the vitality of European competitiveness – particularly in relation to the USA – will lead to gradual improvements in our own financial services, which promote a healthy competitive environment between European operators, in a context of fairness, transparency and sustainable growth.
This is the only way of understanding the scale of the Union’s fight to achieve real ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’.
This is furthermore the only way we will attain the goals of economic dynamism and competitiveness, which are intended to create more and better jobs and greater social cohesion. &#160;&#160; I have chosen to vote against the report and the proposal for a directive, which was however adopted by 325 votes, with 221 votes against and 7 abstentions.
The directive is to be reviewed after five years, with an obvious risk of the Swedish system again being brought into question and abolished once and for all.
The system of A and B shares is open and non-discriminatory and based upon purchasing agreements freely entered into.
Some claim this is already guaranteed by other directives and that there is therefore no point in dealing with the matter in this directive.
That view is shared by Commissioner Bolkestein.
We voted against Amendments Nos 1 to 13 and the proposal, as we wished the proposal in its current form to be withdrawn.
Our reason for doing so is that we believe VAT on postal services, especially in respect of securing a universal service for packages below two kilogrammes, is a matter best left to national governments under the principle of subsidiarity.
For over a century, the European states have established public postal services that worked in more or less acceptable fashion until criteria of public service began to give way to those of profitability.
How can such a proposal be made, knowing that the 1977 sixth directive has still not been updated, that the problems of harmonising VAT rates persist, and that an impact assessment has still not been made of liberalisation in the postal sector?
Regardless of the matter of VAT liability, how are we to believe in healthy competition to the sole benefit of users in the Member States when the Commission proposes an optional reduced rate for conventional postal services, which can only highlight the technical problems relating to weight and the disparities in rates between Member States.
The Commission is thereby seeking to achieve two things: to continue the process of establishing a single VAT system and to contribute to the current process of liberalising postal services at EU level, as recommended in directive 2002/39/EC.
From the 2004 budget, EUR&#160;95&#160;million will be taken from the flexibility reserve and EUR&#160;65 million from Heading 4.
The fact that it was Heading 4 means that cuts will need to be made in other lines and that the lines by which some groups set great store have lost some of their importance.
I am not certain whether everyone knows this, but that is the lowest percentage since 1990, and as far as that is concerned, we fully comply with the objectives which we set ourselves at the beginning of this year in the directives for the 2004 budget, namely to draft an economical budget.
Finally, there is the result of the most recent conciliation meeting.
Not only will we save about one billion on agricultural expenditure but the Council of Ministers has also adopted Parliament’s priorities in agriculture.
Enlargement was the single most important element in the 2004 Budget, and I am therefore delighted to be able to announce that Parliament has agreed to the majority of applications of new Commission posts.
An important initiative has also been taken in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises.
As to agencies, with the entry into force of the new Financial Regulation, Parliament should also gain a better insight into personnel policy of these agencies.
At the beginning of this year, Parliament declared itself in favour of a budget for 25 Member States.
What we will be voting on this week, is a budget of 15 Member States.
Finally, as is known, we in this Parliament have an excellent secretariat for the Committee on Budgets, without whose efficiency, it is obvious, the work here in the Parliament would not have been completed.
I should also like to thank all the group coordinators.
In my view, cooperation was excellent and I am very grateful for this.
Cooperation with the Italian Presidency has also been very successful, for which my thanks.
I can only express my admiration for the way in which he has done things.
It will equip all the different components that make up the European Union to meet this historic challenge, at least in administrative terms.
My aim has been to ensure that the EU hits the ground running when we have a Union of 25 next year, also to achieve a balance between the necessary increases in resources and at the same time ensure value for money for the European taxpayer.
However, it has to be recognised that the scale of some of the budgetary increases for individual institutions are up to 50% higher in some cases.
All the institutions have to modernise if they are to meet successfully the challenges of the future.
We need to make greater use of new technology, rationalise more processes, focusing on the Internet as a tool of communication to achieve our objective to get closer to the citizens and to communicate more effectively with the people of Europe.
This policy has contributed to reducing this pressure this year and next year.
I am pleased to report that I have had considerable successes in meeting some of these objectives; but there have also been some frustrations along the way.
Last month we had to find an extra EUR 77 million for all the EU staff and a further EUR 24 million for the for the Council.
I am amazed and astonished that we can continue to receive requests of this scale at this late stage.
We need to fast-track, to improve quality of spending and to focus more on our core areas and secure greater rationalisation of our processes.
Earlier this year I visited the Rikstag and the Bundestag and these visits were very illuminating for me.
They demonstrated to me a degree of devolvement in decision-making and transparency in the decision-making chain and the budgetary planning process that is achievable.
But we also need to grasp some thorny issues, as my first reading resolution stresses: all institutions need to review and reform the system of travel reimbursement.
This is not only an issue for Parliament, but also for two committees and any other body that regularly reimburses expenses.
It is imperative that this issue is addressed quickly so as to regain the trust and respect of our citizens.
More particularly I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets' secretariat, especially Walter Masur, for their unstinting support and hard work to make this budget what it is.
It is the first budget for a Union with 25 Member States.
It is an historic budget.
The profile of the 2004 budget is clearly geared towards enlargement.
Payments amount to EUR 99.7 billion, which represents 0.98% of Gross National Income (GNI) for the enlarged Union in the year 2004.
On Thursday, this House will vote first of all on the budget for the 15 State EU, with a total of EUR 99&#160;billion in commitments and EUR 95 billion in payments.
At the same time, we have already reached political agreement on the supplementary and amending budget to be adopted in March 2004, which will formally establish the financial resources for the enlargement countries, that is, an extra EUR 11 billion in commitments and EUR 5 billion in payments.
Overall, the budget for 2004 will increase by just EUR 2.3&#160;billion, and is therefore EUR 11 billion below the maximum amount for payments originally planned for next year in the Financial Perspective in Agenda 2000.
Next year, the national composition of staff across all the European institutions will change when the appointment of officials from the new Member States begins on 1 May.
For example, the number of posts in the Council will increase by 286, in the Parliament by 355, and in the Court of Auditors by 133.
In this budgetary procedure, we have also set the figures for all multiannual funding programmes – from funding research to programmes for the environment and trans-European networks – for the new Member States.
The European Union is taking on ever more responsibility in the world.
This is clearly reflected in the European budget.
I greatly welcome the fact that everyone involved has been successful in safeguarding the Union’s capacity to fulfil its responsibilities in Iraq, in Afghanistan, and in our cooperation in the Balkans.
For the measures in Iraq, it has been agreed that the flexibility instrument will be used to provide the sum of EUR 95 million.
This means that, by the end of 2004, we will meet in full the EUR 200 million pledged for reconstruction in Iraq.
In my view, conditions will also improve as a result of Saddam Hussein’s arrest, enabling us to devote all our energies to helping the people of Iraq.
EUR 83 million are earmarked in the budget for Afghanistan.
In the Common Foreign and Security Policy budget for 2004, resources are earmarked to fund the continuation of the EU Police Mission in Bosnia and the new Joint Action in Macedonia.
For 2005 and 2006, the scope will in fact be very limited.
We have the decisions for the new Member States, the setting of the figures for the multiannual programmes, and the provisions of Agenda 2000.
As envisaged here, the expenditure for the enlarged Union will increase in the next two years while remaining within the agreed framework, namely 1.06%.
The Commission will present its communication in January for the period after 2007.
This will start the debate about priorities and the financial framework.
At this juncture, let me reiterate one point which is self-evident: anyone who takes decisions must expect to have to foot the bill for these decisions sooner or later.
I would like to say a few words about the constitutional debate.
It is disappointing that the new constitution could not be agreed before enlargement.
Let me also say, however, that there was an attempt in some quarters to restrict this House’s budgetary rights.
My experience over the last four years has taught me one very important lesson: anyone who claims that the European Parliament does not exercise its budgetary rights responsibly is utterly wrong.
Every budget that we have adopted, and especially this 2004 budget, shows that the opposite is true.
Quite simply, you have an outstanding grasp of the material and have been resolute in preparing the 2004 budget.
Mrs Gill, thank you for your diplomatic negotiations on the sensitive issue of new posts.
Mr&#160;Böge and Mr Colom i Naval, you showed great pragmatism in dealing with the negotiations on the adjustment of the multiannual programmes together with all this House’s specialised committees.
Mrs Dührkop Dührkop, you rose superbly to the challenge of achieving a consensus on the subsidy programmes for institutions, which was a Herculean task.
Mr Wynn, you have ensured, over all these years, that the committee’s work has been prompt, objective, competent and sound.
It has been a real pleasure working with you and your colleagues.
In short, the budget experts have acquitted themselves with honour in the run-up to enlargement and have created a real masterpiece at the end of this legislative term.
I would also like to acknowledge the work of the general rapporteur, Mr Mulder, both because, as coordinator of my group, I have closely followed his work, and also because I am going to have to follow in his footsteps as rapporteur for 2005 and I would sincerely like to reach December 2004 with the same sense of a job well done that Mr Mulder must be feeling right now.
Our group agrees with the whole of the draft budget presented and we are going to renounce any separate vote.
The draft budget for 2004 fully responds to the most significant concerns of our political group.
These include the maintenance of a level of payments compatible with the needs of enlargement and with the absorption of the RALs.
Furthermore, the draft responds to the need for greater parliamentary control of specialised agencies and, furthermore, the amount for the financial packages intended for programmes subject to codecision until 2006 is guaranteed by agreement amongst the institutions.
This draft budget also responds to Parliament’s promise to contribute actively to the reconstruction of Iraq without prejudice to the geographical lines, which are the traditional priority of all the political groups.
The Council has finally agreed to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument: for much less than Parliament requested, it is true, but it is also the case that it is much more than the Council wanted to mobilise, which was zero.
Furthermore, it maintains its pressure in relation to the reform of the Commission by means of this compromise amongst the political groups, which gives the Commission the 272 posts requested in order to carry out enlargement, but which keeps a certain quantity in reserve until this House receives the information it has requested on the development of human resources.
Our task is now going to be to involve Parliament more and more in the legislative and budgetary procedures.
This is going to require of us authority and efficiency in spending, but let us not forget that now and forever, and, above all from next May, it is also going to require great generosity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the light of what the last four speakers have said there does not seem much left to be said about the 2004 budget.
Therefore, I will concentrate on one or two other things.
Firstly, I join with others in thanking the Italian presidency for being cooperative in the way we came to a conclusion on this budget.
There will be the supplementary and amending budget next year, but this will be the last one I will be involved in as chairman for the general process.
Over the last 15 years in which I have been involved in the Committee on Budgets we in this Parliament have always shown how serious we are about the budget.
What we need between the two arms of the budgetary authority is a more realistic conciliatory approach from both arms.
In the last four-and-a-half years we have tried to build that trust between our two institutions.
But until we reach a position where we trust one another, there will always be suspicion from the Council, which wants to take away our powers, and we will always be suspicious of the Council and feel that if it does that we are going to get our own back in some way, shape or form.
We want to ensure that whatever comes in the future gives stability and realism to the system and also to show that we take our position seriously.
It has been great being chairman of this Committee on Budgets.
Next year’s budget was drawn up to apply to 25 Member States, as was the wish of my group.
This week we are adopting a budget for 15 Member States, but the figures for an enlarged European Union have also been agreed in terms of policy, and they will be adopted in next year’s Amending Budget.
Accordingly, the desire expressed just before the Intergovernmental Conference held by the Member States to restrict Parliament’s current budgetary authority is incomprehensible.
My group also supported the Commission’s proposal to increase staff numbers sufficiently as a result of enlargement.
During the conciliation procedure Parliament succeeded in squeezing EUR 95 million out of the flexibility instrument.
We are pleased that our group’s other priorities within the context of this heading were also taken into consideration, such as the Northern Dimension, action to strengthen human rights and democracy, and the fight against diseases connected with poverty, such as malaria and AIDS.
Our group has always taken a sceptical view of cash earmarked for various special organisations – the A-30 budget lines.
But for Parliament’s intervention, things would have been a shambles.
Next year’s draft budget at the end of the day reflects the sense of responsibility that Parliament feels in its role as budgetary authority. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the EU’s draft budget for next year has remained in the shadow of certain major events.
The first that comes to mind is America’s attack on Iraq, which was illegal when viewed in terms of international law, as it was carried out without a mandate from the UN.
The EU pledged EUR 200 million at the Madrid Donors’ Conference to help the United States of America in the post-war reconstruction work in Iraq.
In that way, and using money that belongs to all of us, certain large Member States, which did not take part in the oil war, wish to normalise their bilateral relations with the United States.
The way things work now is that the flexibility instrument is just partially activated and some of the assistance money for Iraq is being taken from other budget lines.
Our group cannot support the fact that the destruction caused by America’s war in poor but oil-rich Iraq is being paid for by other poor people: the poor in Asia, Latin America and the Mediterranean countries.
The EU constitution was not adopted last weekend in Brussels.
That will have no real impact on next year’s budget, but it might have a huge impact on future budgets when talks begin on the financial frameworks for the period 2007-2013.
It should be noted how Germany’s and France’s political elite are lumping together continued negotiations on the Constitution and talks on the financial framework.
It would seem that this is a threat to those EU candidate countries which insist on their constitutional voting rights and which are net beneficiaries of EU budgetary funds.
It is clear that, under the Treaty of Nice, Spain and Poland have too great a voice in the EU, but the EU budget should not be used for political pressure in respect of these countries.
With reference to the budget we should put pressure on the United Kingdom, whose net contribution we the citizens of the other countries pay two thirds of.
As for Parliament’s own budget, our group takes a critical view of the proposals for Parliament’s funds to be used to aid political parties at European level, which is to say the parties of parties.
Despite sound preparations, this discussion of the budget appeared to be precarious last week because at the IGC, it transpired that a number of Heads of Government had had enough of parliamentary democracy and threatened to remove the budgetary rights which Parliament has had for over 30 years.
They believe that Parliament has too much power and that it sometimes misuses it in order to impose its views in other areas where it has no authority.
The members of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, in particular, are very adept at this.
Accordingly, some of the funds intended for the reconstruction of Afghanistan have been placed in reserve and will not be released until the Commission has taken action against the large-scale drugs trade on the ground.
Like yourselves, I naturally have a great deal of faith in the Commission, but this appears a little ambitious for our officials in Brussels.
This does mean, however, that Afghanistan has less money to spend, or does the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats intend to release this money at a later date without one single measure being taken against the drugs trade?
Some of the subsidy for non-governmental organisations is also being placed in reserve.
The majority of the Members of this House here present would like a little more information from the Commission about how this money has been spent in previous years, and that is of course fine; I want this too.
After all, it entails a huge amount of administration and, with this, overheads, because the Commission can only award subsidies to organisations up to the amount that is actively mentioned on the budget line.
The same problem occurs in the recruitment of personnel.
A small proportion of the new posts that the Commission needs in order to guarantee the smooth running of enlargement is now being placed in reserve.
Parliament wants more information about the steps that are taken in the Commission’s reform process.
We have asked for a split vote for a number of reserves, and I hope that the groups will reconsider whether they simply place the money on the line and subsequently judge the Commission on its actions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I also want to express my thanks, not because it is Christmas, but precisely because it is only right to acknowledge how useful it has been having a chairman like Terry Wynn, even if all these words of praise sound like a ‘beatification’ of Terry who is, on the contrary, a lively and warm personality as well as being extremely pragmatic.
I want to thank all my fellow Members and coordinators for the hard work carried out in recent years.
I should like to say that the work carried out by the rapporteurs in the context of the present budget has been of real importance.
The funds for the Info-Points, which we managed to have reinstated only by recourse to the conciliation procedure, should not be granted for this year alone but also in following years.
The Council, Commission and Parliament have the responsibility for sound budget management, an important area in which the Commission has dropped huge clangers, failing to deliver on its emphatic pledges from 1999.
Reforms are still required to improve management and transparency.
The strict application of the N+2 rule is a first necessary measure in order to address this problem.
In general, the European Union should let the proximity principle play a much greater role in external policy.
The fact is that Member States continue to pursue their own foreign policy anyway.
The European Union should set itself to coordination and mutual harmonisation, as well as funding emergency aid.
Moreover, these are private foundations that do not serve a general interest, but at best make the European Union even more remote from the public. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, like others I would like to thank those who have been part of this budgetary process, particularly our rapporteurs as we come to the end of the fixing of the 2004 budget.
If the biggest group in this Parliament decided to have the Committee on Budgets as its primary committee then it would not naturally fall to the PSE if it was not the largest group.
Secondly I would like to turn to one particular aspect of this budget, which is external financing.
The flexibility instrument is already in use, but it is for 2003-2004, and therefore some funds will remain should there be other causes which we have to finance, whether in Iraq or elsewhere.
Where others sow the seeds of discord, we have shown solidarity.
Where others incite mistrust, we dare to build democracy and trust in each other’s ability.
In other words, we have exercised far more restraint in this area, and despite the frequent accusations, we are not the ones constantly stretching the budget.
In fact, the 2004 budget represents a decrease of 0.26% for commitments for the EU of the Fifteen and, indeed, a reduction of 3% for payments.
Even if we include the new countries in the equation, the staff-to-population ratio falls from 0.8 officials per 10&#160;000 inhabitants to 0.7 per 10&#160;000.
Let me give you a comparison: according to the OECD, Spain, for example, has 388 officials per 10&#160;000 inhabitants.
In Spain and Italy, the population figures are already falling.
In Germany, this will be the case from next year.
We need to find an answer to this question – and we cannot wait until the problem is upon us.
However, we will also master the new challenges.
Nonetheless, we will still provide EUR 168 million for Afghanistan, and we will continue to participate in the funding of measures in the Balkans.
I think we have a very good budget before us.
Naturally, we will be voting for it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, the budget for 2004 is in many ways a complicated budget because enlargement will happen part way through the year.
First of all, we put enlargement in place.
The problem, however, is that the many agencies may lead to unduly large expenditure on administration, both because we obtain small units that are expensive to administer and because we use the action appropriations for these agencies.
The current figures in proposed agricultural spending amount to over EUR 40 billion for the enlarged EU of 25 next year.
I have consistently defended this policy and believe it has been one of the most successful common policies operated by the Community since its foundation.
With budget stability to 2013, I suggest they use this period to replan their farming practices, to become more efficient and use the opportunities of recent reform to meet the challenges and opportunities which the future holds. &#160;&#160; Mr President, going back into the early part of the preparation of these budgets, first, in several instances the other institutions wanted enormous increases in their budgets.
I accept that we are expanding from 15 countries to 25, that we are expanding from 11 languages to 20, but I was delighted that the Council of Ministers chopped the huge increases being asked for by the Court of Justice, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
We all agreed, across all parties, that this would have meant an increase of probably tens of millions of euros in the budget for Parliament.
I am so delighted that we have managed to drive that percentage down over the four years that I have been in this Parliament, so that even with enlargement, we are just below 1% of the gross domestic product.
That way they will see that we are responsive to their wishes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am speaking as draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets on the former A-30 budget lines.
This is a series of budget lines which financed subsidies from the appropriations included in Part&#160;A of the Commission’s budget.
Firstly, the spending in the A lines had to be reclassified as operational appropriations, rather than administrative ones, and, secondly, as laid down in Article&#160;49 of the Financial Regulation, the legal basis making it possible to execute these appropriations had to be created.
In line with this Article&#160;49, at the beginning of the summer of 2003, the Commission presented seven proposals, which took the form of a multi-annual Community action programme, with the aim of guaranteeing its entry into force in 2004 so that the activities of the subsidised organisations could continue.
I would now like to focus on the result of the conciliation of 24&#160;November, the essential points of which were the duration of the programmes, the financial contribution and, above all, the issue of pre-allocation or earmarking, which is undoubtedly the main stumbling block.
The European Parliament requested that all the programmes should be of the same duration, until 2006, in other words, until the end of the current financial perspectives, a position which was accepted by the Council.
After all, it has become a constant during the annual budget negotiations that in terms of foreign policy, all kinds of new pledges are made, as a result of which cuts have to be made elsewhere, which I regret.
EU Member States often tend to make big promises, but then forget them when it comes to putting their money where their mouths are.
This is why I am pleased that the Committee on Budgets has backed my main amendment, in which it is clearly stipulated that new future commitments can only be funded if these are met by new additional financial resources.
If we fail to succeed in this, we will be excluded from the negotiating table through nobody’s fault but our own – which is often the case as it is – and will afterwards be presented with the bill for international crises without being able to influence the decisions made. &#160;&#160; ) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like raise a couple of points in connection with the adoption of the 2004 budget today.
The 2004 budget will be your last budget, Commissioner, and it is not yet apparent that all the reforms have been completed satisfactorily.
That is why I hope we can agree to put the relevant items in the reserve so that you can finish the work.
We will gladly release the funds as soon as the relevant documents have been submitted to us.
I want to raise a second issue which I addressed in very clear terms in connection with the first reading, namely the issue of ‘Europe of the citizens’.
We fought for this, and I am very happy that an agreement has been reached with the Council and a legal framework has now been established for city partnerships that will help us to overcome all the problems and create legal certainty for the next three years.
However, I now hear that there is a solution for the Carrefours and Info-Points for 2004 but not beyond.
It all happened with unaccustomed ease, within a completely new budgetary framework and in the context of an enlarged Europe.
Our group’s priorities have been heard, taken on board and reinforced.
A trouble-free budget, then, but one marked by a general reduction in Parliament’s powers on financial matters.
Furthermore, the Brussels fiasco has demonstrated what kind of future our Heads of State or Government have in store for Europe.
We cannot achieve a Europe that is genuinely relevant to the lives of its citizens without major, far-reaching policies.
And major, far-reaching policies require a budget to match.
If the Council wishes to lead us into a dead end, it is up to us, the European Parliament, to remind it of its promises.
I do not see how we can finance these crucial reforms on increasingly meagre resources.
The budget offers stability and confidence, key factors if enlargement is to be a success.
This Parliament has offered its support for the reform of the Commission and its request for posts, because we believe that the Union’s budget is synonymous with credibility, and there can be no credibility when in the last three financial years the average use of available payment appropriations stood at 85%, according to the European Court of Auditors.
The agreement between the Council and Parliament has once again been in the interests of the citizens.
Once again, Parliament has demonstrated flexibility in the negotiations, without relinquishing its political priorities.
I am talking, for example, about the financial support for programmes such as Argo, which is essential to the common management of migratory flows and the control of external borders, as well as the approval of a Community initiative in favour of the victims of terrorism, which, beyond the sums which have been directed towards them, demonstrate to the citizens that the Union is involved in the fight against terrorism in any of its forms. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have had broad agreement about the budget for several years in succession.
The main reason for this is that we have rapporteurs, a committee chairman and a collective spirit in the Committee on Budgets that I think the Member States should learn from, if what happened in Brussels last weekend is anything to go by.
For a number of years, we have had large surpluses and large outstanding commitments, known as RALs, especially within the structural funds system, and these are huge amounts.
We have recently had a report on the implementation for 2003 that identifies clear problems, even though there are areas that are being improved.
When even implementation of the information programmes is lagging behind in a situation in which we face large tasks of providing information in connection, for example, with the new Constitution, enlargement etc., it is clear that it is in actual fact a problem.
Something serious must happen in this area before 2004 if the new Member States are not to be very disappointed when they see that implementation is at a quite different level than that stated in the budget.
Last year, we in the Group of the Party of European Socialists put forward a number of proposals concerning simplification.
I think we should extend this to include a more radical and strategic review of the way in which budget implementation in actual fact operates.
I have seen on several occasions what I think is an absurd situation in which, for example, regions, universities and non-governmental organisations cease to seek appropriations, partly because the application procedure is so complicated and partly because the payments take so long to materialise that the applicants incur financial problems even though their projects have been earmarked for appropriations.
Parliament must perhaps also realise that the budget cannot simply be increased without ensuring that the Commission has the resources required for implementing the decisions.
Six countries, including some founding Member States, now come and tell us that yet again we have to reduce a budget that is already ridiculously low in relation to needs and to the ambitions of the Europe represented by the letter of amendment under discussion this afternoon.
We understand that certain countries, by issuing their threats, actually wish both to launch a challenge to those countries that have, supposedly, prevented the Constitution from being adopted and, more importantly, to take a retrograde step, without taking into account either our institutional role or the ambitions that Europe ought to have.
So this is my tribute to Parliament for this budgetary year 2004. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, much has already been said about the budget.
I am not concerned with restricting the rights of this Parliament, but what would be eminently possible would be to restrict Ecofin’s rights somewhat when the European Council meets again.
Moreover, as if that were not enough, this year the entire budget procedure has been weighed down, as we all know, by a series of attacks against Parliament’s budgetary powers in the context of the work of the Intergovernmental Conference.
It is clear that the problem is political and much broader, as many Members have noted.
The problem arises from the lack of generosity on the part of certain Member States towards the Union – yesterday’s letter is a further demonstration of that – as if the road travelled together so far were not sufficient to demonstrate that the resources granted to the European Union are resources given to ourselves, for the peace, security and well-being of the Member States.
The accounts of the European Union cannot be taken as the starting point for establishing its political priorities.
Our political initiative, and that of the European Parliament, must strengthen this ability and force the Member States to transform their short-sightedness into the capacity to create a vision, to give political direction enabling recovery to take place, to make further progress in the field of a major supranational authority.
The agricultural budget has been given to six or seven million people out of the 400 million people in the Union.
If Spain is an example of our policies of solidarity in regional policy, then I say it gets nothing.
There are so many things we could do without increasing public spending throughout the European Union by transferring some things from national competence to European competence.
If the budget is to be an instrument of building Europe, we had better start thinking anew. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and indeed all those concerned with the budgetary process.
I am currently rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on the two financial regulations which will cover the financing of this programme in 2005 and 2006, as well as the communication from the Commission called 'Reintegrating human rights and democracy in the Mediterranean'.
The European Parliament, which set up this Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights, should now encourage the Commission immediately to refocus its 2004 priorities on this wider Europe programme, and in particular on the Arab countries.
Some will know that the UNDP 2002 report focused on the lack of democracy in the Arab countries.
The 2003 report contains surveys of public opinion in those countries which show that the Arabs actually have the highest demand and appetite for democracy of any region in the world.
We in the European Parliament therefore have a special duty to sustain, encourage and develop those programmes, particularly in 2004.
This budget could not have been achieved without the active cooperation of the Commission in seeking solutions to the problems that arose in the course of the year.
The debate is closed.
The vote on this important dossier will take place on Thursday at 11.30 a.m.
Funds from Heading 4 allocated to foreign aid have been reduced to a bare minimum: aid to Latin America has also been cut by EUR 35 million.
As for the question of funds for Iraq, it is not only a matter of finance.
Recourse to the flexibility instrument will release EUR 95 million.
The solution proposed – to reduce funds from Heading 4 – is unacceptable.
What is the EU committed to doing to secure a democratic resolution of the appalling situation in Iraq and the withdrawal of the occupying forces from that country&#160;? &#160;&#160; – At the outset, the Council wishes to reiterate the European Union’s commitment to contribute to the political and economic reconstruction of Iraq.
The European Council of 16 and 17 October 2003 considered the following factors essential for the success of the operation: adequate security conditions, a major pivotal role for the UN, a realistic timetable for handing over political responsibility to the Iraqi people, the creation of a transparent multilateral donor fund in order to channel the support of the international community.
From the security point of view, the situation still gives cause for concern and the recent waves of terrorist attacks are creating extreme difficulties for the efforts being made in Iraq to achieve stability and reconstruction.
The agreement reached on 15 November 2003 between the Coalition Provisional Authority, which holds power in Iraq, and the Iraqi Government Council to speed up the transfer of powers to the Iraqis is a positive step.
The new plan provides for the installation of a newly elected government in Iraq by the middle of 2004.
To conclude, does the President-in-Office of the Council really believe that all resistance in Iraq is simply terrorist activity, as he has just stated? &#160;&#160; . – Excuse me, but I did not fully understand the question.
But Mr Antonione is entitled to reply as he sees fit, but only if he wishes to do so. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, one of the questions I asked referred to your statement that all resistance in Iraq is terrorism.
That terrorist activity exists on a wide-scale can be inferred by anyone with access to information services.
Intensive negotiations are under way with the Pakistani authorities and various steps have been taken to support the Greek seamen, including via the head of the EU mission in Islamabad and during the recent visit to Brussels of the Pakistani Foreign Affairs Minister.
On 4 November 2003, the Council called on the Presidency of the Union, in Islamabad, to take urgent steps with a view to securing the immediate release of the persons concerned.
This initiative was taken on 9&#160;December on the basis of a letter, which was the result of prior cooperation between the Greek and Italian authorities during a meeting in which the crew members’ lawyers also took part. &#160;&#160; – Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office.
What you said is positive and demonstrates sensitivity on the part of the Council.
In this sense, I should like to ask the Minister to take , until the Italian Presidency's dying breath, if I may put it thus, on a major humanitarian issue involving European citizens.
In other words, would it be prepared to intervene with the Pakistani Government at a very high level, at the level of Prime Minister and President-in-Office of the European Council or at the level of the Italian Foreign Minister?
Pursuant to Article 35 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in defining and implementing all Union policies and activities, a high level of human health protection must be assured.
The European Community’s development policy with regard to sexual and reproductive health is based on the action programme of the UN International Conference on Population and Development held in Cairo in 1994 and on the key measures, known as ‘Cairo + 5’, adopted in 1999 by the UN XXI General Assembly.
On 15 July 2003, the European Parliament and the Council adopted the regulation on aid for policies on reproductive and sexual health rights in developing countries.
That regulation aims to provide financial assistance and specific advice for the purpose of improving reproductive and sexual health in developing countries and guaranteeing observance of human rights.
It should be noted that, amongst the specific measures eligible for the Community’s financial support, Article 3 of the regulation includes the reduction in the number of abortions performed under dangerous conditions.
Within the framework of European Union policy concerning the promotion of human rights, fundamental freedoms, democratisation and the rule of law in third countries, Council Regulation No 975/1999 on development cooperation policy and Council Regulation No 976/1999 on Community operations other than those of development cooperation aim, , to make a technical and financial contribution to measures with the particular aim of promoting and safeguarding human rights and the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and of other international instruments concerning the development and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law.
After all, that is what the resolution adopted by this House says.
I really do not feel able, personally, to give a detailed answer to a question framed in this way.
Following the EU-China Summit, we can see that the line followed by the Commission and Council with regard to China is positive and constructive, and that its effects will be beneficial to our interests and to the progress of the Chinese people.
In pursuing this objective, however, the European Union may give preference to a variety of means and instruments in order to ensure that its measures have maximum effect and to take into account the particular characteristics of each national situation.
The instruments at the European Union’s disposal, and developments with regard to individual cases, are reported in greater detail in the annual reports on human rights, about which the European Parliament is regularly kept informed.
The Council notes that, as regards Cuba, the European Parliament has supported the Council’s action in various resolutions.
Further, the Council stresses that, in any event, it is not competent to express with regard to the situation of such third countries comparative judgments like those expressed in the question. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am surprised that you should reply to such a highly political question in such bureaucratic terms; but since that is how you want it, I must ask whether the Council intends to establish measures for China similar to those established for Cuba, such as recommending that the Embassies of the Member States receive representatives of the opposition, of the resistance relating to Tibet, or defenders of human rights who clearly do not take the line of the Chinese authorities, over the holidays.
That is what my question relates to. &#160;&#160; . – I believe that I have already given a reply which, as the honourable Member has observed, I understand is bureaucratic and not political; I note that fact and I am sorry.
Considerable resources have, in fact, already been appropriated for negotiations on this issue.
Nevertheless, there were differences in opinion in the Council, which remain today, on a number of key elements of the proposal for a regulation, which have led each of these Presidencies to draw the conclusion that it would not be possible to achieve a qualified majority on the Council common position.
Recently, under the Italian Presidency, the Council bodies once again assessed the possibility of achieving a common position on the proposal for a regulation in question.
I should like to ask the President-in-Office, firstly, if he values the work of such organisations, and secondly, if so, whether he would support the Council doing what is necessary in any revision of the regulation so that such organisations may continue to perform this important service to society. &#160;&#160; I am sorry that I am not able to give a precise answer.
As has already been stated in the answers to questions H-0544 to H-0549/03 from September’s Question Time, the Council is aware of the trial and imprisonment of five Cuban citizens who have been residents in Florida since 2001 and the concerns that have been voiced by human rights NGOs as regards their conditions of detention.
In particular, the Council would like to stress that, in the Conclusions drawn up after its meeting in Brussels on 12 December 2003, it issued a declaration on transatlantic relations in which it insisted on the need for the European Union and its transatlantic partners to defend a common agenda based on the promotion of the rule of law, democracy and human rights.
However, the issue goes deeper than that, because since March and April the situation created in Cuba and also the European Union’s responses have drawn the attention of the whole of public opinion to what is happening in Cuba and also to the relationship with the United States.
My question is therefore: do you intend to communicate this concern about the defence of the human rights of these five people and their families to the Council? &#160;&#160; I take note of your remarks: we will, of course, look at them in more depth and, when we have done this, we will be in a position to give you a specific answer as to the measures that the Council decides to adopt, if appropriate. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a short while ago, in reply to Question No 5, you told us that the Council considers that it has an obligation to get human rights respected throughout the world.
As regards defending human rights, I have said and I will say it again, that the Council of the European Union will promote the defence of these rights on every occasion and in every situation at all levels&#160;–&#160;I could repeat a reply that I have already had occasion to give here in this House regarding a similar issue&#160;–&#160;not least where the United States are concerned.
It did just this when, at bilateral level, in the recent meeting that took place with the Secretary of State Colin Powell, the Council and the Member States of the Union present at the meeting brought up concerns regarding the issue of Guantánamo Bay.
As far as the United States-Cuba issue is concerned, the situation is different for this specific case because, as I said before in my initial reply, the issue is still seen as being in the context of bilateral relations between the United States and Cuba.
In particular, it must be pointed out that, in its proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of paid employment and self-employed economic activities, the Commission proposed the introduction of a special ‘worker’ residence permit.
On 27&#160;November 2003, the Council took note of how much progress had been made in work on this proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am grateful for your reply, although I find it rather skimpy.
In view of the above, will the Council say what measures it now intends to take within the framework of Albanian-EU cooperation to address the repeated and flagrant violation of human and civil rights in this country? &#160;&#160; The Council has repeatedly explained to Albania that correctly conducting municipal elections in a lawful manner is part of the process of the country’s with the European Union.
The serious failings demonstrated in the municipal elections of 12&#160;October and 16&#160;November 2003, in particular in Imara, can only harm further with the Union.
In this connection, Albania has been made fully aware of the fact that a constructive political climate and a policy of sustainable reforms remain crucial elements for progress in negotiations for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and, therefore, for any further with the EU. &#160;&#160; I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply.
In a meeting of 2&#160;November 2002, the General Affairs and External Relations Council adopted precise conclusions on this issue and identified nine countries with which the Union will step up dialogue regarding immigration.
As regards readmission, the Council stressed its importance in the meeting of 6&#160;November and supported a swift conclusion of the agreements currently being negotiated.
The readmission agreement with Macao was signed on 13&#160;October and the agreement with Sri Lanka should be signed shortly.
As regards the other third countries with which the Commission has received a mandate from the Council to negotiate readmission agreements&#160;–&#160;Algeria, China, Morocco, Pakistan, Russia, Turkey and Ukraine&#160;–&#160;negotiations are still in progress.
Finally, the Council refers the honourable Member to the Brussels European Council Conclusions of 12&#160;December 2003, in which it reaffirms the importance of the dialogue with third countries of origin and transit of migratory flows and underlines the importance of continuing to assist those countries in their efforts to stem these migratory flows. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you once again for your detailed reply.
The mid-term review of this strategy for the beginning of the new millennium carried out by the multidisciplinary group on organised crime under the Greek Council Presidency, of which the Council took note on 3&#160;October 2003, calls upon the Commission to launch a study on statistics development in the area of organised crime, in close collaboration with Europol, building upon the work already carried out and using, in particular, the Annual Organised Crime Situation Report and Eurostat.
The future Dutch Presidency plans to organise a follow-up to this conference in November 2004.
The need for common, comparable data has been stressed in these meetings. &#160;&#160; That was a very full reply and I will need to study it.
I am grateful that progress is being made, but I am particularly interested to know whether you are including in this the ten accession countries which will be joining in May.
Regrettably, a lot of the organised crime which affects us derives from Central and Eastern Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, would you agree that the greatest cause of the very substantial rise in crime in the world today is the drugs industry, which is doing so much damage to our young people in so many countries, and that a major step in reducing crime would be to wipe out that drugs industry?
Therefore, is it possible for the European Union to take the necessary steps to deal with the countries where those drugs are produced as an industry, to eradicate them completely, because the only thing they offer to the world is total damage in every way? &#160;&#160; I am not in a position to say whether or not this is indeed the main activity on which organised crime bases its trafficking.
I certainly agree that this trafficking has a huge negative impact on all Member States of the European Union and that every endeavour needs to be made to try to eliminate this scourge of today’s society.
It is not always easy to succeed in eradicating particular situations in countries that have a very weak legal system, always supposing that they have any.
I believe that these are policies which, to some extent, are the competence of each individual country.
On that occasion the seats of nine other agencies were also established. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, this question was put before the decisions of 13 December were known about, and I congratulate Italy on succeeding in acquiring this Food Safety Authority for itself.
Furthermore, the Council allowed the said region an additional quota of 50&#160;000 tonnes as from the marketing year 2005/2006.
In the meeting held in Brussels on 16 and 17 October 2003, the European Council invited the Council to examine the Commission proposal as soon as possible.
As has already been pointed out by the Presidency in the answer to question H-699/03 by the honourable Member in November 2003, the Council hopes that, in the session of December 2003, after it has received the European Parliament’s opinion, it will be able to adopt the regulation proposed by the Commission extending the derogation from certain provisions of the quota system for the Azores in the milk sector as of the marketing year 2004/2005, in order to make it easier for the milk sector in the said outermost region to adapt to the supplementary quota allowed by the Council.
The Council invites the honourable Member to contact the Commission for the information that he would like to see mentioned in the Council’s answer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I thank the Presidency for the clarification it has given and I can also clarify to the Presidency that, today, in this House, the opinion of the European Parliament on this matter has been adopted and that the Council will, therefore, be in a position to take a decision.
The question I would like to ask you, however, Mr&#160;President, is whether, in this decision that you will be taking in December, you will uphold the principle of adapting the regional quota to the Azores’ self-sufficiency in milk and dairy products, as decided by the Nice Council in December 2000, since this is, I believe, a fundamental principle which, if upheld, could lead in future to the much-needed adaptation of the regional quota? &#160;&#160; I am sorry to say that I am not in a position to answer your supplementary question.
As stated by the General Affairs and External Relations Council of 8&#160;December 2003, EU relations with Georgia, like relations with Armenia and Azerbaijan, are firmly based on a long-term commitment to partnership and cooperation.
The EU would like to help Georgia and other countries of the Southern Caucasus to consolidate their relations with the European Union.
Finally, I can confirm that the EU has specifically offered Georgia EUR&#160;2 million in special financial assistance to help the country organise the forthcoming elections.
I do not understand why you are ignoring something that seems to me to be Georgia’s right. &#160;&#160; I do not want to avoid the question but, since Georgia has not even presented a request, it is difficult to give a reply to a country that has not even declared that it is willing, inclined, available or anything else.
In any case, before being able to consider Georgia, and the same goes for other countries that may want to set out on the road towards with the European Union, it is only too clear that the appropriate conditions must be in place, that steps forward need to be taken for us to be able to consider the path towards , even if not in the very near future.
I must also tell you in all honesty, Mr&#160;Dupuis, that there has never been any kind of line taken in the Council bodies to make it possible to set down now, in principle, the limits and boundaries of the European Union.
As a result, both institutions have stressed that this decision cannot be considered a precedent for any future problems in the application of the levy, either in Italy or in any other Member State. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the answers I have been given.
The most clear and tangible sign of this approach was the nomination, in July 2003, of Ambassador Talvitie as the European Union’s special representative for the Southern Caucasus with the specific task of helping the Council to further develop a global policy.
The Council used the joint action on the nomination of a European Union special representative in order to establish the objectives of EU policy in the Southern Caucasus that are now in the public domain, which are: a) to helpArmenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia to implement political and economic reforms, in particular in the areas of the Rule of Law, democratisation, human rights, good governance, development, and the reduction of poverty; b) to achieve compliance with the instruments in force,prevent conflicts in the region, help resolve conflicts and prepare for a return to peace, also by supporting the return of refugees and internal evacuees; c) to become constructively involved with the main national actors in neighbouring countries; d) to encourageandsupport further cooperation between States in the region, in particular between States in Southern Caucasus, especially as regards economic, energy and transport issues; e) to make the Union more effective in the region and to give it a higher profile there.
As the General Affairs and External Relations Council declared on 8&#160;December 2003, EU relations with Georgia, like those with Armenia and Azerbaijan are firmly based on a long-term commitment to partnership and cooperation.
The European Union wants to help Georgia, as well as the other countries of the Southern Caucasus to consolidate their relations with the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, first of all, thank you for the reply you have given me.
The Council has not yet received this amended proposal.
Indeed these products, because they are exported from the European Union, carry an EU logo. &#160;&#160; I am not in a position to give a detailed reply.
We will proceedto an investigation and give a written reply on the issues that you have just highlighted, Mr&#160;de&#160;Rossa, both as regards the times, that is to say the date when the Council asked the Commission for an amended proposal and, in particular, regarding the identification of products that are subject to this request. &#160;&#160; The President-in-Office may have misunderstood my question.
Mr&#160;de&#160;Rossa, I am not currently in a position to give you the precise date because I do not have the documents here and I cannot simply conjure a date out of nowhere.
We will, therefore, be more precise as regards the definition of this equipment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am slightly out of order, I do not have a supplementary question.
In this context, it is important to note that knowledge about the manufacture of medicinal products and the action of any given drug is not general knowledge.
Due to the complex scientific interactions and manufacturing processes, very few patients in Europe will be able to evaluate the opportunities, risks and prospects of success of a treatment with any given drug.
This means that the reform of the legislation on the authorisation of medicinal products, which is the subject of our debate today, must guarantee the safety of medicinal products but also establish general conditions which authorise and underpin research by pharmaceutical companies and thus boost their competitiveness.
With this legislation, we have, I believe, succeeded in resolving the dilemma between the need for high standards of health protection, on the one hand, and the industry’s calls for better conditions for research and competitiveness, on the other.
The global compromise with the Council that has now been achieved offers us the opportunity to conclude the package reforming the legislation on medicinal products in the second reading.
It is a good compromise, as it generally reflects the views of this House on key issues concerning legislation, pharmacovigilance, the scope of the centralised authorisation procedure, protection and the composition of the Agency's Management Board.
I believe that the compromise tailors the legislation to reflect scientific progress and economic developments, and patients will benefit from this.
This House has successfully enforced a high level of safety in the authorisation procedure as well as an effective system of surveillance and control.
With the establishment of a database at the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA), the Agency will in future play a key role in an effective pharmacovigilance system.
This is especially important because a well-functioning pharmacovigilance system is essential for patients’ wellbeing.
As a result, a wide range of new active substances will be subject to the centralised authorisation procedure in future.
The European Medicines Agency in London will guarantee, through the structures and working methods envisaged in this legislation, that scientific resources are coordinated effectively, thus safeguarding the high standards of the evaluations.
Centralised authorisation through the EMEA will ensure that all patients in Europe enjoy the same prompt availability of innovative and effective medicinal products.
This uniform Europe-wide provision protects the economic interests of manufacturers engaged in research and the interests of generics manufacturers and – unlike the period originally proposed by the Commission – reduces the burden on the national health systems.
The global compromise with the Council places patients’ needs at the heart of the legislation, promotes research and innovation and also safeguards the competitiveness of European industry.
The Commission has pledged to present a proposal on this topic in the new year.
I therefore believe that the overall outcome is good and that the compromise is worth supporting.
I do not think that initiating a conciliation process with the Council will produce a better result, especially as it will not solve the two issues that I have mentioned.
Tomorrow’s vote – and I urge my fellow Members to support the compromise on that occasion – will enable us to launch sustainable legislation on medicinal products.
This review represents two years of work, indeed more than two years of joint work, of research, questions and negotiations: two years which will, I hope, be crowned with success at tomorrow’s vote.
I should like to extend very sincere thanks to my fellow Members of the European Parliament, across all of the groups, with whom I have held countless meetings, and in particular my fellow rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Müller.
I should also like to thank the Council for being willing to adopt a constructive approach on these dossiers so as to reach an agreement at second reading.
These expressions of gratitude will, however, count for nothing if Members of this Parliament do not act responsibly tomorrow and adopt the compromise that has been negotiated, rather than vote in favour of other amendments which, I believe, are more of a reflection of individual interests than the common good.
But consider the strides forward that we have made in protecting public and animal health!
These two products are not incompatible, but complementary.
Generics do not develop without innovation and innovation is stimulated by the availability of generic medicines.
This provision will enable all generics to be made available more quickly.
My fellow Members and the Council also accepted my ‘eurogenerics’ proposal, which will prevent any hold-up in the development of these products, in particular in the candidate countries.
The review of pharmaceutical legislation does not seek solely to strike an optimum balance between generics and innovation.
Many other aspects that are just as important have been studied.
Such a list would never have been exhaustive.
I believe that this would be particularly important to set their minds at rest.
I know that this too is an essential point for a good number of my fellow Members.
My fellow Members and I also wished to take into account the environmental aspect of medicinal products.
This is a very important issue for this Parliament.
It is our responsibility to address the problems that arise.
We are therefore asking the European Commission to table a clear paper setting out what exists in this field, to analyse the potential benefits and risks of making information available to patients, to reflect on the responsibility of the information provider and to table proposals.
Here, Parliament has been too European for the Council.
The compromise does, however, include some significant pathologies in the scope of application and a review clause in four years’ time will enable us to strengthen this provision and increase equal access to health for every European citizen.
On homeopathic medicinal products, Parliament wanted to go further than the proposed compromise.
This provision will secure the development of this category of medicines.
It is important to put things in perspective, as it shows that homeopathic medicinal products have not been neglected, just as veterinary medicinal products have not been sacrificed.
All of the provisions that I have mentioned so far also apply to all veterinary medicinal products.
They facilitate access to products for all patients and encourage scientific research by supporting essential growth in generic medicines.
The review package, as originally proposed by the Commission, had three important objectives: first, to guarantee European citizens a high level of health protection; second, to increase the availability of innovative medicinal products while at the same time encouraging competition with generic products; and third, to prepare for enlargement.
First, the data protection scheme and generic competition.
The Commission wanted to strike the right balance between innovation and generic competition by adjusting criteria for achieving it.
The measures in favour of generic competition we proposed were agreed upon and even improved on thanks to Parliament’s amendments during the first reading.
This period also represented one of the major tools available in the context of pharmaceutical legislation for rewarding innovation.
This provision will limit the effect of the new protection period to medicinal products authorised after the implementation of the directives.
Second, I would like to state that the Commission will give full consideration to any request for a transitional period presented by the new Member States on adoption of the legislative package.
The common position did not follow the Commission and Parliament approach, but extended the current scope of the centralised procedure to some extent.
The current compromise further extends that scope, and more importantly, allows for future development.
More generally, the new legislation will consolidate the Agency’s international role and will increase its role in key sectors such as market surveillance, pharmacovigilance and public awareness of medicinal products.
The possible effects of the use of medicinal products on the environment is important.
The compromise amendments, which require an environmental impact assessment and possible mitigating measures but leave the criteria for granting the marketing authorisation untouched, are to be seen as a well-balanced solution.
Fourth, the implementation of the Doha Decision concerning the granting of compulsory licences for the export of patented medicines to countries with insufficient manufacturing capacity.
However, Amendments Nos 6 and 19 pose a problem of form because a clause regulating the exports cannot be part of a directive dealing with the placing of medicines on the Community market.
Nevertheless, the Commission fully agrees with the principle of the implementation of the WTO General Council Decision of 30 August 2003, both at Community and at Member State level, in the context of the patent legislation.
The Commission undertakes to address the implementation of this decision in the EU as a matter of the highest priority in early 2004 with a view to bringing forward an appropriate legislative proposal.
Finally, information to patients.
This compromise allows the settlement of a number of important questions and a dynamic approach to the tasks of the agency and the scope of this centralised procedure.
As we know, the main aim of all of the institutions is finally to have new legislation that allows European citizens to have equal opportunities and to have access, as soon as possible, to new, more powerful drugs, which are more selectiveand more easily tolerated than existing ones, hopefully at a reasonable price.
The agreement reached to see a further data protection period in the case of a ‘switch’, as well as in the case of new therapeutic indications for well-known medicinal products, is also a step in the right direction.
As I have stressed on numerous occasions, I agreed with the initial Commission proposal and I am convinced that new medicinal products should in future be subject to authorisation by the EMEA.
Finally, I hope that in Europe the pharmacovigilance system, which I outlined as a pharmacologist and that guarantees maximum protection of citizens, will be made more efficient and transparent. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I also support the rapporteurs and all who have worked hard for this compromise proposal.
Nevertheless, they could go further in acknowledging the position of some Member States, including my own, where routine medicines are used by qualified persons, but not veterinarians.
What we have on the table today is a package of amendments that has been negotiated by the two rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs and the Italian Presidency.
It is an overall compromise, a balanced compromise, which has been accepted by the majority of the Member States and which gives guarantees and proposes measures to foster the growth of both branded and generic medicinal products.
This brings me to what has been – it has to be said – the real battleground in Parliament and between the Member States from the outset: the question of data protection.
Since 1996, the proportion of new medicinal products launched worldwide by Europe has fallen from 55% to 28% – in other words, it has halved – and I am not talking here about turnover but about insufficient investment in research and development.
If the essential objective for Europe is to continue to care for its patients, and care for them well – and we all agree on this – then we need to pursue a genuine policy of innovation, stem the brain drain, fight against parallel imports and, as I was saying, promote, not a head-on collision between industry and generics, which would be fruitless, but a win-win approach, which will be of the greatest benefit to patients.
On behalf of the Liberal Group, which I am representing, I think that this is what we have succeeded in achieving here at the end of two years of work together. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we have been working successfully on this project to revise European legislation on medicinal products for two years.
It is true that, at that time, I had hoped for a lot more than this compromise package, negotiated with the Council and the Commission, which will be put to the vote tomorrow.
For me, this process of revision of the procedures for European marketing authorisation of human and veterinary medicinal products should lead to a radical development of the criteria for evaluating and authorising medicinal products in the interests of patients, public health and health-care professionals.
The London Agency has sufficiently enlarged its sphere of activity to ensure its funding, but the national authorities have, for their part, retained the most lucrative classes of medicinal products, namely those regarding neurodegenerative disorders or cardiovascular diseases.
Over and above introducing Braille, we have improved pharmacovigilance and transparency in patients’ interests, but it is true that some last-minute Council compromises subtly weakened these gains.
The majority of the documents relating to the evaluation of medicinal products should be publicly accessible, but what about pharmacovigilance reports?
It is a great victory, however, that advertising for medicinal products subject to prescription was rejected, but until when?
In terms of public health, the environmental impact of the new medicinal products should be assessed.
This should not be the sole evaluation criteria, but it must be considered in the benefit-risk equation for a medicinal product and, therefore, be one of the conditions for granting a marketing authorisation.
I was, however, persuaded that this debate will return to this House, because the pharmaceutical industry no longer wants to make do with placing new bogus treatments on the market and overprotecting them for years.
It is true that the major cause of friction related to the authorisation of generic medicinal products.
The pharmaceutical industry is trying to delay the sale of generic products, and this is normal.
The Commission and some Members shared this reaction, however, by restricting the definition of generic products, tightening the conditions for granting authorisations and extending the periods for authorisation by using various tricks: switch, new indications etc.
Despite opposition from the majority of Member States faced with problems of funding their social security, the first European medicinal products will have the longest protection period of administrative data in the world.
That is certainly the main concern raised by this legislation when it comes to funding public health.
Finally, another major disappointment was in the area of homeopathic medicinal products.
In actual fact and in conclusion, I recognise that we have made much progress, and I welcome this, but it is true that there still remains a great deal to do in the years to come. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I, too, wish to thank the rapporteurs and the Commissioner.
Nevertheless, I still take issue with two points: patent protection and homeopathic medicinal products.
In May, ten countries will be joining the European Union.
For one thing, the compromise on patent protection is extremely disadvantageous for the new Member States.
In the accession negotiations, it was agreed with these countries that they would include a protection period of six years in their legislation.
Commissioner Liikanen may well promise a transitional period, and I welcome that in itself, but it is less than was agreed.
A second point is that the compromise proposal on the table also pays particularly scant regard to homeopathic medicinal products, even though a substantial majority in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy did advocate this.
Certainly a very large number of Polish observers are very worried about this proposal.
I congratulate both our rapporteurs, and I imagine that they will be very glad to see the back of these three proposals.
But I am very aware that the accession states have recently negotiated legislation in their own countries to put the on to their statute book, and that included a period of data exclusivity of six years.
Part of the trouble may be the responsibility of the accession states themselves: they have not yet asked the Commission the Commissioner can tell us this for delays, temporary derogations, extensions, etc.
If he does, he is wrong, because that is precisely what we have done in the draft directive on packaging, which we have almost concluded.
The accession states asked for certain derogations.
If we adopt the legislation before us now without specific reference to the negotiations and to the deadlines requested by the accession states, then we are in danger of producing legislation which is not transparent, because nothing will appear in the Official Journal alongside these directives drawing attention to the deadlines available to the accession states before they need to implement them.
I can see that it is necessary for the health of the western European pharmaceutical industry for us to go for the ten-year data exclusivity period, but we need to be fair to the accession states and, above all, we need to be transparent about the arrangements that we reach with them. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with, I should like to join in thanking the rapporteurs for their efforts towards bringing this important dossier to a successful conclusion.
I am very happy that this Parliament, together with the Council, has succeeded in refining the Commission’s proposals substantially, which were indeed very sweeping and liberal at first.
What is being served up is of course a compromise, with some elements that are good and some that are not so good.
In any case, it is a good thing that all medicinal productsfalling under EU regulations will have to comply with the same criteria of quality, safety and efficacy.
After all, in comparison with the United States or Japan, for example, the period of protection for medicinal productsin Europe is extremely long.
We have held on to this, and have also been able to push it through in the face of opposition from the Council and the Commission.
The centralised procedure via the EMEA in London is increasingly becoming the norm for an increasing number of medicinal products.
It was very important to us, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, to incorporate the environmental effects of medicinal products into that Community legislation.
REACH does not do this – a small error on the part of our brilliant commissioner.
In the case of veterinary medicinal products, negative environmental effects can even lead to a blockade.
That is not the case with human medicinal products, but negative effects will indeed be taken into account.
American advertising of medicinal products is and remains banned.
We in the Verts/ALE Group shall continue to fight for these. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my thanks to the two rapporteurs.
I think we have a good compromise package on the table and I will work to ensure that this House votes for it by a large majority tomorrow.
Regardless of whether we think that eight or nine years is the right period, I believe it is very important, in an internal market, that we do not have the differences which have hitherto existed in Europe.
I also greatly welcome the fact that we have been able to achieve an additional year of protection for existing substances.
Progress sometimes proceeds at a snail’s pace, and it is not always a new substance that brings improvements.
I think we have achieved very important progress here.
All this is very positive.
I also think we were right to reject the Commission’s proposal on information and advertising.
A few weeks ago, I was in Bratislava in Slovakia, which is not yet part of the EU but thankfully will be joining on 1 May 2004.
It is not that I have anything against Viagra, but I think that in view of its side effects, Viagra should not be marketed on the Internet but should be prescribed by doctors.
Regrettably, I must say to the Commissioner that the Commission should keep its Christmas break short.
At the start of the second reading, I put a number of questions regarding the new Member States on the table.
The second point is much more fundamental and concerns the manufacture of medicinal products for developing countries that are undergoing a serious health crisis.
In early December it became known that AIDS has claimed five million lives over the last five years.
On 30&#160;August, on the eve of the WTO Conference in Cancun, the United States, the EU and developing countries came to an agreement speeding up the enablement of the manufacture of generic medicinal products for developing countries.
I cannot understand why the Council, the Commission and some fellow MEPs are not prepared to do what the European Union decided before the Cancun Conference.
A compromise cannot be achieved, however, without some watering down.
The first relates to the decision on pharmacists that was taken in the compromise.
A good supply of medicinal products also requires, however, that pharmacists make their know-how available, not only to patients, but also, in particular, to those writing out the prescriptions.
I know that some fellow Members have requested a separate vote.
I am genuinely sad about this.
My next point concerns Doha and medicinal products.
I think that an independent citizen should be able to obtain the information he or she needs in Europe, too, instead of being redirected from the website of a European undertaking to that of a US undertaking to find this information.
I would simply like to say to you that the compromise, which consists in providing medicines with data protection for eight years, plus two, plus one, is a great New Year gift from the European Parliament to the pharmaceutical industry and recognition of the effectiveness of powerful lobbies.
In addition, the New York Times writes that two thirds of medicinal products approved between 1989 and 2000 were only minor modifications of existing medicinal products.
Furthermore, if our social security systems urgently need generic medicines, then what about developing countries where 95% of AIDS victims live and where there are also a large number of endemic diseases?
There, the lack of generic medicines is,quitesimply, criminal.
Amendment No&#160;19 of the Grossetête report refers to this.
For goodness sake, let us adopt this and uphold the spirit of Doha.
Commissioner Liikanen, you mentioned that one of the objectives included the need to prepare for enlargement.
The problem with this solution is that recital 7 will not have any legally binding effect.
You accepted this in principle, but the text presented to the Council and hence the second reading in Parliament of the common position amounted to the deliberate thwarting of the clearly expressed will of Parliament on three occasions and your own will as Commissioner.
The common position now requires all medicines for use in food-producing species to be subject to veterinary prescription, but with the possibility of an exempted list of medicines being available without prescription.
From considerable correspondence with you, Commissioner, it is clear to me that the exemptive list will contain very few medicines and is not a solution.
Likewise the farmer should have access to certain medicines without the need to consult a veterinary surgeon.
All our information confirms that residues arise from medicines that are already the subject of a prescription regime in all Member States, namely antibiotics.
The pharmaceutical review is important for EU citizens.
In this review we are not only encouraging research and innovation but we are also trying to get generic medicines on to the market more quickly.
We have a compromise package on offer: either Parliament accepts a compromise or we go into a conciliation process in which we risk losing much of what Parliament has wanted.
I urge colleagues to back the compromise on offer.
It is a pity that their work on this report has been rejected by some Member States.
The Council's co-called common position is not at all a compromise: it is merely a way of expressing the Commission's original proposals, and the Commission has made it clear that any listing of products arising from comitology proposals will largely be under its control.
And we are going to put at risk not only animal health but also animal welfare and the whole principle, because people just will not bother to pay the money for a vet.
That is very important.
I believe this compromise is a gift to European citizens and not, as some Members of the House might think, to the pharmaceuticals industry.
With the EMEA, we have created efficient structures which safeguard the quality of evaluations, thus ensuring that safe medicinal products are available to patients.
We have a centralised authorisation procedure which covers a wide range of indications.
As a result, a great many new and innovative medicinal products are subject to the centralised procedure and can be made available at an early stage to patients.
In other words, we have achieved a great deal for patients.
I therefore urge all fellow Members who may have a rather critical viewpoint to support this compromise tomorrow.
It will benefit Europe’s citizens, and that is a real gift to patients, no one else. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs on having produced very good reports.
But we have that problem.
Europe is about much more than this.
Europe can be much more than this.
You must be flexible.
It says it is going to do it by the back door, which will end up placing a tremendous responsibility on farmers and many other people in my constituency and other areas.
Therefore, it is up to this Parliament to put this legislation forward in a way that will allow flexibility between Member States.
It is not the only one that we have received in this area.
Furthermore, I would also like to reply to the British and Irish Members on the issue of veterinary medicinal products.
One regards medicinal products for human use and the other regards veterinary medicinal products.
There are simply a number of provisions regarding the directive on medicinal products for human use that are the same as the provisions for the directive on veterinary medicinal products.
When you tell us that horses are not in fact part of the diet in the United Kingdom, then you really should not forget, and you know this all too well, that when these horses are no longer of use in the United Kingdom, then they are exported to other Member States to end up on our butchers’ stalls.
Authorisation is needed for medicines only in the EU market, so this legislation concerns medicines which are authorised for the Community market.
If TRIPS and patents mean that products produced in one country can be exported to a developing country, this has no impact, because this protection only concerns authorisation to market: it is not linked to manufacturing.
Products outside the EU will be authorised for placing on the market by the authorities of those third countries, according to their legislation.
Secondly, as far as commitment is concerned, what I have said here before has been accepted by the whole college of Commissioners: it will be our first priority in early 2004, which is in two weeks' time.
I will do my best also to help my colleagues prepare, because not all the proposals fall under my direct responsibility.
On the one hand, this is good for better regulation but, on the other hand, it has caused a delay.
He mentioned a case in Bratislava.
That is an explosive problem which we must deal with, but I am sure we can come back to that in the future.
Mrs Doyle has talked about it in committee and elsewhere and I understand her problem.
There have been some success stories in the last 20 years for example, illnesses which were extremely difficult to handle without heavy treatment in closed institutions can now be treated with medicines.
But this cannot be done without innovation.
Twenty or thirty years ago people with mental illnesses were placed in institutions.
We must support innovation.
Somebody referred to the situation in America where exclusivity periods are shorter.
I commissioned a study in 2000 to assess the state of the European pharmaceuticals market.
It showed that in Europe there are countries where, after the expiry of a patent or data protection, there is no change in the price level of generics.
This proposal will certainly create a real European market for generics.
I am personally convinced that in that area this House has been working on very good balance.
Finally, I want to thank this House for a good debate.
I must also say that not all the issues have been solved here, but we all have worked very hard and very well to find a compromise which is good for public health and innovation. &#160;&#160; Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, on a point of order?
That means that I am always sitting in this Chamber to hear the answers of the Commissioner.
If the Commissioner does not give me an answer regarding homeopathic medicine, then I will convince him tomorrow, when a large part of this House will vote against some compromises because we did not get an answer. &#160;&#160; Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, you know that this is not a point of order.
It is a political position. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is a question to the Commissioner.
I understand, but I cannot reopen a discussion that has already taken up so much time.
You do not have a point of order. &#160;&#160; Mr President, mine is as much a point of order as the last two were.
I asked two specific questions on the Human Medicines Directive, particularly on the definition of a medicinal product, and recital 7 on the legality of it.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, please!
If, according to Doha, manufacturing is allowed for developing countries, the authorisation to market in developing countries will be given to the authorities of the countries.
I have tried to reply to all the questions that were raised. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
So far, for example, the ‘Food and Drug Administration’ has registered about 2&#160;900 cases of toxic effects, including, if you look closely, 104 deaths predominantly caused by abuse of ephedra, as well as serious side effects of other products that are used daily such as St John’s Wort, ginkgo biloba and also ginseng.
This is why it was important to adopt a directive that seeks to protect consumer health which, on the one hand, calls for better quality and safety standards, but also, on the other hand, for it to be obligatory for labels and illustrative leaflets to include rigorous scientific indications that are simple and clear for citizens about the potential toxicity of herbal medicines, as well as their interaction with food, drinks and other medicinal products when taken together.
As you know traditional herbal medicines mean those that have been in use for at least 30 years, of which 15 years in countries of the Community.
Nevertheless, at the request of an individual country&#160;–&#160;and this was a reason for improving the directive&#160;–&#160;and with a reasoned opinion from the Technical and Scientific Committee for Herbal Medicinal Products of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA), the period of use of 15 years can be significantly reduced.
Another positive aspect is the creation of a Committee for Herbal Medicinal Products as part of the EMEA.
Parliament clearly indicated how this committee should be distinct from the Committee on Proprietary Medicinal Products.
At second reading, Parliament proposed and also adopted two amendments.
In particular, an initial amendment inserted in the recital intends to clarify, somewhat unnecessarily, the scope of the present directive by specifying that this only regards traditional herbal medicinal products, whilst the use of plants or herbs for food use fall under the current specific European legislation for food products.
The second amendment is merely a specification: it concerns inserting the word ‘traditional’ when talking about herbal products.
After all, the current directive defines the harmonised legislative framework for all countries of the European Union in favour of free movement of traditional herbal medicinal products within the Community.
Now we have the possibility to adopt the legislation successfully in the second reading.
The quality requirements to be met are the same as those for all medicinal products.
The Council common position is consistent with these objectives and main principles.
On 27 November the parliamentary committee adopted two amendments.
The second aims at specifying the purpose of the list of herbal substances to be drawn up by the future committee on herbal medicinal products.
The Commission supports these two clarifications.
As a result of negotiations between all concerned, a compromise was agreed on prior to the vote in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, allowing for a consensus incorporating only two amendments tabled by myself and other colleagues from an original list of ten amendments.
The second amendment essentially provides that the list of herbal substances to be set up by the Committee for Herbal Medicinal Products should only cover the medicinal use of herbal substances.
I welcome this directive, which recognises the value of medicinal plants as an important complement to modern chemical medicines.
As in the conventional medicines field, innovation must be encouraged in this area and we must look to the future as well as to the past.
I hope that when the Commission reviews this directive in three years' time it will recognise that this is a dynamic field and one in which new products are constantly emerging.
We must protect the consumer in terms of efficacy and safety, but at the end of the day we must leave the choice with the consumer.
The directive based on the common position text will introduce a regulatory regime for traditional herbal medicines, giving the public assurances as to safety and quality, as well as systematic consumer information relating to traditional herbal remedies sold over the counter.
These include greater flexibility to take account of evidence of traditional use from outside the EU and the possibility of vitamins and minerals being added to traditional herbal remedies which are ancillary to the activity or the active herbal ingredients.
It is due to this progress that we have had very few people disagreeing with our approach during this second reading.
As I described in first reading, presently consumers are unaware of some shoddy practices going on in this sector.
Over the past few weeks there has been some debate over echinacea due to a report by the University of Washington in Seattle questioning its effectiveness.
This means that when I purchase this product I have a one in four chance of getting what is described on the label.
We need regulation in this sector in order to protect the consumer and reward those decent producers making quality products.
While I believe it is very important that we try to cut out cowboys and people who operate in a completely unacceptable manner, this legislation was supposed to provide a simplified registration procedure that would allow the registration and marketing of certain traditional herbal medicines that have been on the market for a specific period of time.
In the first reading it was quite clearly limited to herbal medicinal products or pharmacological activity and excluded food supplements.
Many feel that it is extremely important to protect the herbal supplements already on the markets of most Member States.
European citizens have a right to retain their local cultural traditions.
In many EU countries traditional medicine is a living tradition that has continued to evolve over many years and has the capacity to continue to evolve.
The natural evolution of traditional medicine is stunted by this directive that defines 'traditional' in a purely historical context and restricts its application to what took place many years ago.
The scope of traditional medicine is greater than the directive recognises.
Traditional medicines are used extensively to treat a wide range of serious conditions in Member States, which should be entitled to introduce appropriate regulation to accommodate such practices.
Everyone recognises that there are people who act in an unorthodox manner, but I believe that traditional medicine is much more beneficial, in the long term, than the pharmaceutical approach. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, many people have good experiences of using herbal medicine to supplement ordinary medicine and treatment.
From previously having approximately 2&#160;500 different products, there are now only 50 approved products.
Well-educated and experienced therapists now complain about the lack of legal access to many important preparations for treating, for example, cancer and allergies.
I cannot therefore support the directive. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I appreciate that a large number of people will benefit enormously from this directive - the lobbyists and those who are entertained by them.
With this proposed directive we are seeing yet another imposition of the Nanny State, creating laws where none currently exist in the UK, for a well-established small market whose consumers are invariably well informed.
The proposed amendments will disallow the registration of significant numbers of products currently recognised as traditional herbal medicines, on which many people depend for their wellbeing and in which they have great faith.
My party is totally opposed to this legislation, which we see as yet another area in which harmonisation is being imposed to the detriment of the freedom of individuals. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I understand that the purpose of this proposal is to allow the regulation of herbal medicines under a simplified procedure.
However, it is a fact that producers, retailers and consumers have been astonished and dismayed by the cascade of highly restrictive legislation dealing with such products that have been safe and available in certain Member States including my own for many years.
We have heard from certain colleagues, particularly in the UK, that is also the case there.
I would like to thank all the colleagues in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy for their hard work, but it is a fact that there is a great diversity of traditions within the Community and the harmonisation of this legislation really risks losing products that are in safe use and have been in safe use for years.
I give the Commissioner full warning that if this ensues it will not be a happy result either for the Member States or for Brussels. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
National legislation on measurements and measuring instruments has been with us a long time.
The answer is because all developed countries have complex economies which need a minimum level of measurement accuracy for fair trading in the public interest.
A number of concepts or issues are raised in this proposal.
Optionality: Amendment No 2 essentially states that a Member State will be free to decide whether or not to regulate in this field.
Regarding harmonised standards, in order to meet the essential requirements for any of the instruments covered by this directive, the manufacturer must show conformity in one of three ways as made clear in Amendment No 21.
It is important that manufacturers have the choice between the requirements in new Annex 2, together with the detail of the instrument-specific annexes M1 to M10, or by applying the relevant European harmonised standard, or by compliance with the relevant parts of the normative documents adopted by the OIML and approved by the new measuring instruments advisory committee and published in the Official Journal.
It has been a matter of much concern to your rapporteur that there is inconsistency between the conformity assessment modules in Council Decision 93/465/EEC and Annexes A to H1 of the common position.
In which context I thank the presidency for its measured but constructive approach and I thank the Commission for being instrumental in finding the compromise text.
That concerns our desire to distinguish between manufacturers and traders in the definition of terms in this proposal.
If the Commissioner is willing to give an undertaking that he will include a review of the definitions in the overall review of the conformity modules I am mandated by the committee to withdraw Amendments Nos 3 and 11.
The present proposal replaces ten existing directives and implements the principle of the new approach for technical harmonisation.
The aim of the proposal is to ensure appropriate consumer protection by imposing the use of high-quality instruments for measurement tasks, covering commercial transactions.
The proposal imposes technical requirements, expressed in performance terms, allowing for different technical solutions to be applied, thus allowing innovative products to be developed and enhancing competitiveness in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
In reply to the rapporteur's question, the revision of conformity assessment procedures, which has been agreed upon in the joint declaration and in Amendment No 32, also includes harmonisation of the definitions of specific terms used in certification, such as 'manufacturer', 'authorised representative', 'trader', etc.
With the Commission’s support for Parliament’s amendments, I trust that the Council will agree with you in a second reading. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President.
Commissioner, Mr&#160;Chichester, ladies and gentlemen, I was my group’s shadow rapporteur during the first reading of this Measuring Instruments Directive, and have followed the inception, development and progress of this directive throughout the two readings.
He has shown a masterly grasp of this highly complex and technical subject matter and settled into the work very quickly during the second reading.
I think it is important to say this, for although our political views diverge in a number of respects, we were able to collaborate very closely and productively on this project.
It remains a complex but also a very important directive.
On the issues of optionality and the distinction between manufacturers and traders – Amendment No 32 and Commissioner Liikanen’s statement play a key role here – there was vigorous debate about whether the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy would be willing, yet again, to conclude the matter through an informal trialogue during the second reading.
The Commission’s opinion and statement are good too.
Otherwise, I am very happy with the outcome.
Perhaps you will permit me, at the end of our pre-Christmas session and almost at the end of the year, to express my hope that our British colleagues and above all the hospitality industry in Great Britain will be satisfied with the rules on measures for beer glasses.
This will not get big headlines in newspapers for the rapporteur or anyone else, but it is extremely important for the public to have clarity and security in the measuring instruments used as listed for items of public health, public safety, public order, protection of the environment and, indeed, the levying of taxes and duties and the protection of consumers and fair trading.
All those public goods need accurate, trustworthy measurements, and in the European Union we need to get rid of the barriers to trade that might exist without such instruments.
This is an example of the new approach to harmonisation.
The joint declaration on the procedures for ensuring conformity with the review of texts will be welcome.
I am glad that the countries which will be joining us in May 2004 will have an example of how Member States can make decisions in the context of a European Union which wants fair competition and does not want barriers to trade.
Our committee has a reputation for putting in hours of work in the form of informal trialogues.
Some of us sometimes question whether we are misguided in doing that in comparison with other committees such as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
But my belief is that, so far, we have managed in an assertive way to put across our points of view.
The proposal in question based on the new approach replaces some 11 existing old-approach directives which allow for national legislation to exist alongside Community provisions and are technically outdated.
Harmonisation thus allows firms to gain from economies of scale and to improve the competitiveness of European firms in the global market. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.(1)
