Commission Question Time The next item is Question Time (B6-0161/2008).
Member of the Commission. - The question posed by the Honorable Member concerns the decision of the Cour d'Appel de Bruxelles of 4 April 2008 to suspend IBPT's regulatory decision of 18 December 2007 regarding mobile termination tariffs in Belgium.
This regulatory decision was previously notified to and assessed by the Commission under Article 7 of the Framework Directive.
The Commission is aware of this court decision and was informed by the national regulatory authority, IBPT, that, following this annulment, it had launched a national consultation on a draft decision resetting mobile termination rates at the same asymmetric level as in its previous regulatory decision of 11 August 2006.
Consolidation of the internal market could also be hampered if court decisions in different Member States result in a situation where different interpretations are given on how similar competition problems need to be addressed.
But we have to face reality that the inflation rate has actually increased from 1.9% in August last year to 3.6% in April 2008.
But it is clear that the recent increase in agricultural prices can only partly explain the observed food-price rise at retail level so sometimes you can see a discrepancy between the price at the farm gate and the price at the supermarket or in the shops.
In order to mitigate price pressure in the agricultural sector, within the common agricultural policy (CAP) we have already set further incentives to enhance market orientation and to try to boost production: with mandatory set-aside put at zero for this production year and also an increase in the milk quotas effective from 1 April 2008, we have actually been reacting very quickly.
As regards the question of the dominant position, any abuse of dominant positions is subject to Article 82 of the Treaty or its equivalent in national laws.
The Commission and the national competition authorities are vigilant to any infringement of the European Union's competition law.
The Commission's actions are not only concerned with domestic impacts (I think we all have a commitment to securing a level playing field also when we talk about developing countries and so far the Commission has mobilised more than EUR 300 million in food emergency aid and we are actively promoting a coordinated response at international level in line with the conclusions of the FAO summit that took place only two weeks ago.
The second point I should like to make is that increasing the set-aside and milk quotas is a welcome measure, but in my opinion increasing the production cost of pesticides, in view of rising oil prices, may be a measure that will not pay off. (PL) May I begin by thanking the Commissioner for a very comprehensive response on this subject.
I agree that the market must be monitored and controlled, just as market prices must be monitored, but does the Commission benefit from imports of some kind in order to lower the prices of certain items from the import of cheaper items onto the national market that have (...). (The President cut off the speaker) Member of the Commission. - Mrs Batzeli, I think it is important that we have a control system in place to see that prices are not going through the roof, and that is exactly the duty of the national competition authorities - that they keep an eye on this.
To Mr Rutowicz: I do not know if you are referring to the sugar reform where we decided to reduce the production of sugar within the European Union by 6 million tonnes and finding a possibility to give the farmers that were stepping out of sugar production a very decent package.
On the price of imported products: yes, it is true that it depends on import duties and that is exactly what we are discussing these days within the WTO Doha Development Round - whether we can find an agreement on reducing duties in general.
Today we have oil prices of approximately USD 136-137 per barrel; if we were to reduce the VAT what would be the next question if we then had an oil price of USD 160 - would we reduce it further?
That is possible within the agricultural sector and we are now discussing it for fisheries as well, because fisheries is even more dependent on oil prices.
In response to the other question raised, we will present a proposal this year for the most deprived people within the European Union.
Commissioner, in answering Question 27, you told us that only 1% of EU land was in biofuel production.
This is the future, but we need to be part of this development, and therefore we need the first generation as a stepping stone.
Finally, Madam President, could I say bluntly that I am not a specialist in VAT on children's clothes so instead of giving a wrong answer I think it is better to put the question in writing.
Member of the Commission. - With regard to the question concerning the increasing demand, there is undoubtedly an increase, an exponential growth, in consumption of aquaculture products, seafood and farmed fish and this is certainly welcome because, as we all know, fish stocks in various Community waters and worldwide are over-fished.
First of all, with regard to fish caught in the wild which often then end up in the processing chain - fish that are caught in the wild by third countries in particular, but also by our own fishermen - we are in the process of adopting a regulation in order to curb illegal fishing activities.
This in itself will strengthen our regime considerably, so that any fish that is illegally caught will not be permitted to enter the Community market, either in its original state or after processing.
On a question also connected with all this, it is important to underline that we are looking at the possibility of eco-labelling aquaculture products, as I said before.
The Commission decided not to lodge an appeal against the judgment of the Court of First Instance of 13 June 2006.
The Court had stated that there was insufficient analysis of all relevant matters in the Commission's decision of 4 April 2003.
Member of the Commission. - The decision of the Court of First Instance did not, as such, establish that the applicants were right in substance but that the Commission had taken a decision which was based on an insufficient analysis of all the relevant matters.
As a result of the fact that the decision that we took was not based on solid enough grounds, we required Ireland to provide us with additional information so that we would be able to base our decision on a more solid basis.
Because the first decision was taken with regard to all operators as a whole, we have asked for individual information to be provided on the individual operators.
I am informed that this question principally relates to the price of lobsters which normally would exceed EUR 15 per kilogram at first sale in Ireland but has now dropped to EUR 10 per kilogram.
Total Community imports from Canada increased by 12% in 2006, compared with the reference period 2000-2005 and 7% in 2007; in the case of the United States imports increased by 27% in 2006 and 26% in 2007 versus the same reference period.
Yet there are very few direct imports of lobsters into Ireland from the United States or Canada; a total of 2.5 tonnes and 118 tonnes, respectively, in 2006.
The average import price for the US in the period 2005-2007 was EUR 12.45 per kilogram; for the first quarter of 2008 the price actually rose slightly to EUR 13.6 per kilogram.
However, lobster producers could set up producers' organisations in order to strengthen their position in the market.
For further action in the medium to longer term, aid is available under the European Fisheries Fund for collective action to promote fisheries products such as lobster which could help in attracting higher demand and better prices. (GA) Madam President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his answer and I would like to ask a supplementary question.
I would like to ask; does the Commission intend to present proposals to support fishers in coastal areas, such as lobster fishers and the aforementioned fishers who are impacted by the reduction in the price of shellfish?
Member of the Commission. - The problem concerning the huge increase in the cost of oil and its impact on fishers is very specific and very particular - I would say almost unique - when it comes to fisheries.
In this information note we have outlined a number of specific measures that we can propose.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, SMEs represent 99% of European companies.
SMEs face greater difficulties in complying with environmental legislation and in reaping the benefits of higher environmental performance.
Madam President, this question gives me the opportunity to state exactly what point we have reached in the negotiations.
The Parties also agreed that the negotiations should be completed by the end of 2009, in view of the planned Copenhagen Conference of the Parties.
The agreement reached in Bali took full account of the conclusions of the IPCC report.
The negotiation process will be particularly difficult if we bear in mind not only the complexity of the issues to be discussed, but also the tight schedule owing to the urgency of the matter.
Until last Friday, experts from all the Parties were taking part in discussions in Bonn on all the items on the agenda.
If such an agreement is not achieved - and I cannot believe the international community will be led to make such an irrational decision - we have in the proposed legislation all the provisions necessary to reform the CO2 emissions trading system so that industries exposed to international competition will regain their competitive capability.
I believe that we can join with the United States, especially under the anticipated new Administration, which takes over next year, given that both candidates have fully committed themselves to introducing a CO2 trading system, reducing emissions by 80% by 2050 and taking decisive action against the greenhouse effect in cooperation with the EU.
I believe in this agreement, and I believe that all of us here together (and the European Parliament has played an enormous part in this), with your continuing support, will achieve such an agreement.
Question 34 has been withdrawn and Questions 33 and 35 to 44 will be answered in writing. (EL) Madam President, as far as I know, we allow each Commissioner 20 minutes.
I therefore request that Question 33 be answered in accordance with the procedure we have decided upon.
That being the case, I am afraid we have had our 20 minutes, and it is only fair to colleagues who have asked questions of Commissioner Barrot.
In terms of training, Frontex has three objectives in 2008.
In the communication of 13 February, the Commission emphasised that the deployment of a rapid border intervention team might be accompanied by technical assistance in accordance with Article 8 of the Frontex Regulation.
Cooperation with third countries is obviously very important, and is paramount for us as well, and I know that developing pilot projects with third countries is on the Commission's programme.
However, I believe that there is justification for this, because we will receive requests from the third countries that we work with.
We will also continue to look at everything else that can be done to improve border surveillance. (PL) Because Frontex is in Poland, and I am a Pole, my attitude towards Frontex is rather personal.
The purchase of a helicopter would be equivalent to the annual operating budget of Frontex, i.e.
That is all that we can say at present.
I would like to thank you for establishing a link with Frontex.
As the author is not present, Question 46 lapses.
I grew up in a country where for 30 years terrorists wreaked havoc on our country, but we also had the rule of law which protected the privacy of citizens.
Madam President, I must say that 15 Member States have notified the Commission of their instruments transposing the Data Retention Directive, and the Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against all Member States who had not notified it of these measures by the end of November 2007.
I should like to ask the Commissioner what level of cooperation there is in implementing the directive between national data protection authorities as regards data retention.
That is all I can tell you.
The European Arrest Warrant has really delivered significant results.
The main change lies in the mutual recognition of judicial decisions, and the dual criminality requirement is no longer in place for 32 serious crimes.
Compared with the lengthy extradition procedure, which generally takes more than a year, under the European Arrest Warrant a surrender procedure takes only 43 days on average.
Based on an analysis of the transposition of the framework decision into Member States' legislation, the Commission reported in 2005 and 2007 on the functioning of the European Arrest Warrant.
There have been some very important successes, but unfortunately these have been dragged down by this lack of good transposition and good implementation of what could be a very important directive for the future in the field of justice and home affairs.
I would like to thank you for asking this question and I can tell you that we will do everything we can.
I should like to add that the strengthening of Eurojust will also allow us to make better use of the European Arrest Warrant. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, I spent 17 years in courts as a lawyer and I am therefore well acquainted with the situation as regards justice in Europe, which, generally-speaking, is characterised by its slowness, by its extreme slowness.
The European arrest warrant is very important - in fact, of the utmost importance.
It is vital that police and judicial cooperation is promoted in the Member States and between the Commission and the European institutions.
This is why proper use of the European Arrest Warrant - which has greatly expedited and simplified procedures - must exemplify this new justice, which you want to be much faster and clearly much easier to use.
That is all that I can tell you.
