Halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010 (debate) The next item is the report by Adamos Adamou, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010.
I believe that we all recognise the urgent need for an effort to meet commitments to halt the loss of biodiversity in the European Union by 2010.
The European Union action plan up to 2010 is very ambitious but, unfortunately, it does not propose simple solutions to the problem of implementation and the lack of funding and political will on the part of the Member States.
It was precisely one year ago that the Commission adopted its communication on halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010 and beyond.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - (NL) Madam President, with this important report by Mr Adamou, Parliament is sounding the alarm bell.
From the vantage point of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the assessment of the agricultural policy in 2008 will represent an important new opportunity to halt the loss in biodiversity, although this requires a bigger budget for rural development and more emphasis on protecting nature and the landscape.
I do not, however, wish to congratulate the national governments which undertook in 2001 to take certain measures which, alas, they have failed to take, and has resulted in the continued decline of biodiversity and loss of organisms.
Our objectives must be to reduce the contamination of waters, regardless of whether it is contamination that comes from the land, from industry, or contamination that comes from the sea, because we must not forget that, over the last 15 years, 55 000 tonnes of oil were spilled into the Mediterranean from shipping accidents alone.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, on behalf of my colleague, Mrs Doyle, the shadow rapporteur, let me thank our colleague, Mr Adamou, for his report.
Our target was 2010 - not '2010 and beyond' - but we are nowhere near reaching our target of halting biodiversity loss by that year, which is not so far away.
Overall, 2 033 species are in danger; 86 % of the most threatened species are threatened because of the loss or deterioration of habitat due to factors such as dams, fishing, cattle numbers, etc.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I would like to start by saying a few words in praise of the progress we have made in the European Union.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Madam President, I too should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur on his excellent work.
As you will have gathered, biodiversity requires a dynamic approach, and when we reason about in situ biodiversity in Europe, we are talking about the preservation of vegetable and animal species from territories that are managed and planned as close to the local populations as possible.
I am also greatly encouraged by the report and would like to comment in particular on three of the issues.
Second, I would highlight your opinions on the theme of biodiversity and climate change.
However, let me underline that the communication points out that the financial decision of the European Council in December 2005 influences the funding available under these instruments.
Regarding the target of halting biodiversity loss in the EU by 2010, although time is fast approaching, achieving this target is possible, but will require accelerated implementation at both Community and Member State levels.
Work is also progressing on the extension of the Natura 2000 network to marine areas in coordination with DG Environment and on the fight against IUU fisheries.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 22 May.
Research shows that each year 140 000 species disappear from the Earth.
According to a recent report, between 20 and 30 per cent of all plant and animal species could die out if the rise in global temperature exceeds 2.5°C.
Therefore, it is essential that the European Commission propose a long-term strategy that will truly put a stop to the loss of biodiversity.
In Hungary, too, it is very important that landowners to whose territory protection under Natura 2000 has been extended should not be disappointed by the European Union.
in writing. - (FR) Biodiversity is more than a priority, it is a necessity, and we need to act swiftly in order to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010.
