It is thus thanks to very good collaboration with the French Presidency that this legislation is now being realised, which is a very good thing.
You have to have equipment that usually costs around EUR 2 700 with an independent ventilation system.
The fact that this chemical is used today is very much dependent on the fact that it is used illegally.
This meant that it was also important to restrict and prohibit use by professional users.
We know that, in those countries where it is used - which means 24 of the 27 Member States at present - DCM is hardly ever used properly in accordance with national and European legislation.
My fellow Members of this House have helped to make it possible to achieve this agreement so quickly, and I thank you all for that and for all the shadow rapporteurs and myself being able to reach agreement with the Council.
In respect of DCM, there are those who argue that the alternatives may possibly be at least as dangerous, if not more so, but the assessments by the Commission and others have clearly shown that the alternatives are significantly less dangerous.
The Commission's proposal is intended to reduce as far as possible and as far as technically feasible the risks involved in the use of this hazardous chemical.
There should also be a ban on consumers using this substance, because they do not generally have the necessary personal protective equipment and cannot be trained or supervised to ensure that they use the substance safely.
The marketing and use of dichloromethane by professionals will be subject to a general ban.
However, as some Member States believe that it is essential for professionals to continue using this substance in future, these Member States will be given the option of permitting its use under specific strict conditions.
Mr Schlyter recommends that you support the compromise text negotiated with the Council.
It is a rare pleasure for me these days to be able to participate in debates arising from committee work and particularly at this time of day, or should I say at this time of night.
Over the last eight years the Commission has on record some 18 fatalities from the use of these products and some 56 non-fatal injuries.
But there has been an industrial lobby which has created a blocking minority in Council, and for that reason the rapporteur and the committee reluctantly agreed to allow the Member States a derogation for professional use.
However, we have achieved not only strict protection for workers using them professionally, but also a commitment to control and inspection by the Member States.
I am sorry to say that the only Member State lobbying hard for the retention of dichloromethane use was the United Kingdom, which also produces in industrial quantities many such substances.
Some Member States, such as Sweden, Denmark and Austria, have already introduced a ban on DCM.
This agreement will not, I am sad to say, mean a total ban on the professional use of DCM.
This derogation, however, has been framed in such a way that what I hope is the small number of Member States that want to use DCM must guarantee that their workers do not suffer as a result.
Look at the alternatives that are available: NMP has been available for 11 years, but only now is found to be reprotoxic; there are flammable solvents that can cause glue-sniffing problems; there are date-rape drug substances that are seen as safe alternatives; there is DBE, about which not much is known; and there are the more basic blowlamps and sanding methods that can be used, although dust and other problems arise there.
So let us now go back and thoroughly investigate the alternatives so that we really can be sure that we are providing a safer alternative for our constituents.
I therefore support a ban on its use by ordinary consumers and strict restrictions on professional use.
However, the proposal we will vote on tomorrow will allow Member States to apply to the Commission for exceptions in justifiable cases, although under very strict conditions.
I am of the opinion that, when there is an alternative which can replace a hazardous industrial product, it should be replaced.
All the substances which you referred to, Mr Holm, are now governed by REACH.
Dichloromethane would normally also be covered under the terms of REACH, but because the health risks are so evident and because there have been so many cases, we have given priority to this substance.
I would also like to make it clear, Mr Holm, that I would also have voted in favour of a more far-reaching compromise.
If Parliament had been able to agree with the Council on banning the commercial use of dichloromethane, I would have voted in favour this evening.
Please do not hold the Commission responsible for the fact that there are several Member States who did not want to take this further for reasons which I am not familiar with.
I would just like to illustrate this chemical to you all.
I can only conclude this debate by appealing to the Commission to ensure, now, that those Member States which apply for a derogation for professional use have that derogation revoked if these new, stricter rules are regularly broken.
The debate is closed.
The most important point is that this carcinogenic substance should not be permitted to be used in enclosed public areas such as shopping centres and underpasses, since the vapour produced by volatile substances is heavier than air, and therefore measurements have shown that it sinks downwards and endangers children in particular.
In view of their higher respiratory rate, children are more susceptible to dichloromethane poisoning, as are people with cardiovascular diseases.
A further argument in favour of banning DCM should be the fact that, as experts have pointed out, we cannot ensure that consumers will use DCM safely.
Withdrawing DCM from general circulation therefore seems to be the most sensible and responsible solution.
