Amendment 1 by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament therefore reflects the moral, legal and operational demands we are facing in Afghanistan, Chad and Lebanon and that we will face in the future.
The fact is that only 20% of our armed forces can actually fight.
They set out a series of priorities for 2008, the goal of which is the economic, political and military advancement of European capital in the world.
Those value-based objectives should be seen as taking priority over bilateral relations and Javier Solana was right in telling us that what really matters is political will.
This report also calls on the Commission to concentrate all its efforts on successfully completing the Nabucco pipeline.
It is important to emphasise that we are also introducing the ideas of a common energy policy and energy security as an element of our common European thought.
The European Parliament should continuously follow and scrutinise the way in which plans and measures are implemented to counter the threat. (FI) Mr President, this report stresses the importance of human and civil rights, which is good.
Russia collaborates directly with EU Member States because the EU does not have any coherent or coordinated energy policy.
In energy cooperation between Russia and the EU we need to be aiming for a situation where both sides win.
An energy policy co-implemented by Russia and the EU should be based on cooperation, not confrontation.
As long as the EU does not have such a seat, it will be difficult to speak with one voice. (SK) The document concerned is in essence based on the European Security Strategy adopted by the Council in December 2003, and on the May 2007 resolution on the common foreign and security policy.
To the fellow travellers of Sinn Fein who are propagating misinformation on the Lisbon Treaty, I say to you that there is a triple lock system in Ireland on the deployment of troops: first of all, there must be a UN decision; secondly, there must be a government decision; and thirdly, it must be approved by Dáil Éireann, the national parliament.
From a national perspective, we retain a veto on any developments with which we disagree, and we retain the sovereign right to decide on participation in any crisis management mission in accordance with our own legislative requirements.
Religious freedom is enshrined in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which also imposes an obligation on each State to ensure that these rights are respected.
The credibility of the European Union is also at stake here. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Solana, I believe that the debate has shown very clearly that the European Union can truly be a political union only under certain conditions.
He is completely right that 2008 will be a defining year for the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
Not only because of the Lisbon Treaty, but also because Kosovo will be the greatest test of whether the EU will be ready to politicise Kosovo appropriately.
It is not because the Member States of the EU conclude bilateral agreements that there is no common energy policy, but because, since there is no common energy policy, there is nothing to which the interests of the Member States can be adjusted or with which they can be aligned, so the criticism of Mr Saryusz-Wolski's report is unacceptable.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that I welcome the references to the Lisbon Treaty.
I have in mind here our European potential in the following areas.
Mr President, like Mr Solana before me, I also believe that this debate has demonstrated a broad consensus in the fundamental orientation of the European Foreign and Security Policy, and I am very glad about that.
Nevertheless, there is no risk of our foreign policy becoming militarised or that the European Union will be militarised, because the military answer to these risks is an option only in the rarest of cases.
However, we must be in a position to do both.
The European Union can draw not only on the CFSP and the ESDP, but also on the different Community instruments, such as the instruments for stability and development cooperation generally, as well as humanitarian aid and the Civil Protection Mechanism.
High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy. - Mr President, I would like to answer the two or three questions that have been addressed directly to me.
Finally, I would like to say that I agree completely with what Commissioner Verheugen said in his last speech, and I will not add any more to that.
I therefore hope that future debates will be as lively and as rich as this one.
However, we have reached an agreement on the key principles, which looks very promising, and I hope that the Council, the High Representative and the Commission, with the very modest contribution of Parliament of course, are able in future to build a foreign policy for the Union which is even stronger, greater and more ambitious.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, this final chance to speak gives me the opportunity to do something I did not have time to do earlier on - to thank Commissioner Verheugen and Mr Solana for the excellent cooperation with their staff, who were available for discussions and from whom I learnt a great deal.
That also worked very well.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 5 June 2008.
In the context of the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty and of the future competences of the European Parliament, it is necessary to sum-up the operations of the Common Foreign and Security Policy and to draft its priority objectives for 2008 and 2009.
The reinforcement of the European Neighbourhood Policy must be a major objective for 2008.
If 2007 was the year of laying down EU policy regarding this space, 2008 must focus on the practical application of the Black Sea Synergy.
Finally, the West Balkan countries and their proximity to the EU must also be a priority in EU Foreign Policy.
in writing. - The report reflects correctly our opinions on the evolution of the CFSP in the future.
I have no doubt that this Treaty, by buttressing the role of the High Representative, will enable a more far-sighted and long-term strategy to be practised in EU foreign policy.
This is significantly weakening the bargaining position of the European Union as a whole and its efforts to build a common energy policy.
This is, however, becoming a necessity, which should be reflected in the budget for 2009.
in writing. - (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, effective foreign and security policy cannot be made by Member States individually.
The European Neighbourhood Policy East Conference which is being held in the European Parliament today and tomorrow shows that we take our own objective seriously.
In terms of content, I would like to make the following notes: 1.
The report's emphasis on energy security is also very aggressive from Poland's very one-sided view.
