This also concerns the situation of the supervisory committees - the three 'Level 3' committees, as we usually call them.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I would like to emphasise the Council's opinion, which is that the key response to the current situation in the financial market is consistent implementation of the three working programmes already adopted by the Council during the Portuguese Presidency.
By April 2008 the Commission should prepare an assessment of how to clarify the role of the committees and to consider all the different options towards strengthening the working of these committees.
A report on how we are working on this road map to tackle the financial turmoil consequences has been sent to the European Council for discussions in a few days in Brussels.
I think everybody acknowledges that this road map, adopted a few months ago by Ecofin, provides the right answer to the problems identified.
And, as you know, from a macro-financial stability point of view, I, as the Commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, am always ready to contribute to the discussions in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and in this Parliament.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, in 1999 we initiated the European single financial market project and have since been pressing ahead with it.
The Lamfalussy Process was a step in this direction.
Level 3 could be a way of bringing supervisors in Europe a step closer together.
After Parmalat and Enron, we asked the Commission and Council in 2003-2006 to speak out on rating agencies.
That is why in 2001 we launched what is known as the Lamfalussy Process, with the aim of putting in place an efficient mechanism for convergence between the various Member States and partners in terms of supervisory practice and financial regulation.
We agree with all of this because we need a strong and healthy financial sector that is capable of supporting our economy in the face of the turbulence on the international markets, but we want even more.
The review planned for 2007 thus became more urgent and acquired greater political relevance.
Finally, I should like to thank Commissioner Almunia once again for his availability, although I still think we need to have a clarifying debate with the Commissioner responsible in accordance with the specific and technical nature of the subject, and the Commission's obligation to propose a specific initiative. (ES) Madam President, the Lamfalussy Process was created so that Community legislation on financial matters could respond quickly and flexibly to developments in the market and in order to encourage convergence of supervisory practices.
The Commission must be a player, not just a moderator, in the intermediate stages here. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, the Lamfalussy Process has commendably seen us through over the years to this specific focal point of the financial mechanisms.
Member of the Commission. - (ES) Madam President, I will try to be very brief, but I wanted to make a few brief comments on some of the speeches that have been made.
Thirdly, the Lamfalussy Level 3 Committees are extraordinarily important.
Two of the three Level 3 Committees, the Banking Committee and the Insurance and Occupational Pensions Committee, were only created in 2005, even though the Lamfalussy Process began in 1999.
