CAP 'Health Check' (debate) The next item is the report by Lutz Goepel, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the CAP 'Health Check'.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the first round of parliamentary discussions on what is referred to as the health check of the common agricultural policy will conclude tomorrow.
The Commission should take very serious note of our position.
The debates in our committee have also revealed, however, that this is not sensible in all sectors, at least not before 2013.
For livestock premiums or for states with full decoupling, but which have a strong livestock sector, a sudden change of system would result in negative structural interruptions in view of the current market situation.
The committee voted in favour of the introduction of a new, flexible instrument to promote dedicated environmental and region-specific production or particular sectors - in other words, Article 69 - and we have at the same time demanded that new measures be devised to protect the land against environmental crises and crises that are increasingly to be expected in view of the changing climate and increasing cross-linkage of agricultural markets.
Next week we, the ministers, will attempt to reach some conclusions regarding the report on the common agricultural policy health check.
It is also important to know that, when deciding on the common agricultural policy health check, we will take into account the conclusions of the European Council on the financial perspective for 2007-2013 and the European Council's appeal to the Commission to carry out a comprehensive EU budget and expenditure review for 2008-2009.
The Presidency agrees with the Commission that the common agricultural policy health check is an important part of the planned activities within the budget review for 2008-2009 and that it does not define its conclusions in advance.
We have established that the 2003-2004 reforms have largely achieved the set targets in terms of response to market conditions and in terms of making the common agricultural policy more accessible to the citizens.
Undoubtedly, your report will be a valuable contribution to a future debate on this matter.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, once again I want to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and Mr Goepel in particular for their hard work, resulting in an excellent report.
We are at the stage in the first round where we have consulted many stakeholders and different organisations and individuals to have their opinions and to collect different ideas.
The opinion of the European Parliament is crucial, together with the expected conclusions of the Council next week, as we work to finalise the legislative proposals scheduled to be adopted by the Commission on 20 May.
I therefore agree with the statement in your report that direct payments remain necessary as a basic income guarantee.
Our experiences with the 2003 reform show that the decoupling has been working quite well and, therefore, I think we should move further and extend the benefits of decoupling, except where coupled payments have a very solid justification.
I have also noticed that you support the idea of a more flexible Article 69 as a valuable tool.
However, we should not expect Article 69 to solve all the different problems, and I will fight any attempt to re-introduce coupled support through the backdoor using Article 69.
However, we are not starting from zero: the Council discussed this issue in 2005 and concluded that new measures at EU level should not interfere with what is already available in the different Member States.
Concerning modulation, I have made it clear on many occasions that we need to have for the future a very ambitious rural development policy.
If I have been a little too long, it is only to show clearly my dedication and my huge interest in having the opportunity to discuss here in Parliament the future of the European agricultural policy.
The Committee on the Environment drew up 17 recommendations, of which I shall highlight four. 1.
The Committee on the Environment welcomes the fact that, in its Communication, the European Commission intends to respond to the challenge of climate change and to support less intensive farming practices. 2.
The Committee on the Environment stresses the need to develop in the direction of sustainable, multifunctional agriculture, and in so doing takes a stand for conservation farming and organic farming. 3.
On the contrary, in our view, cross-compliance should even be strengthened in certain areas, such as water use and management and water quality. 4.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Goepel for his report.
I believe he has brought together the whole committee and Parliament in a very good report.
Yes, the common agricultural policy is necessary, but also the market is there and we should take much more advantage of it.
The common agricultural policy always gives rise to heated debates and it is always difficult to reach consensus, but I note that we are all unanimous on the need to maintain a common agricultural policy whose objectives have just been confirmed in the Lisbon Treaty.
We support his positions on continued decoupling, so that the 2003 reform is implemented in all Member States.
We support the rapporteur's positions on market instruments and risk management in terms of crises, epidemics, animal welfare and the environment, modulation and degressivity.
Milk quotas should be abolished in 2015, so there is cause to increase milk quotas now by at least 2% and cushion the landing in 2009.
The report contains plenty on liberalisation and market economy that the Commission should use as a basis for its proposals in May, when the CAP health check will be on the table.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are among those who believe in and defend the continuation of the CAP even after 2012.
We feel that this report is a step in the right direction, but we cannot accept that the full decoupling of aid should not allow for the possibility of maintaining a partial coupling of aid for some specific sectors, to prevent the complete abandonment of production.
We recognise the importance of rural development, but we feel this cannot be achieved at the expense of the first pillar of the CAP.
It is doing so, but there are areas of agricultural production where it is becoming difficult to put forward proposals without restrictive intervention.
The 2003 reform exacerbated the situation.
The freezing of the agricultural budget in 2002 and the subsequent reforms of the CAP did not improve that situation.
For example, the total subsidies per hectare varied in 2005 between EUR 68 in Latvia and EUR 756 in Belgium, in other words a tenfold increase.
In its Communication, the European Commission proposed a partial reduction in payments to beneficiaries receiving more than EUR 100 000 a year.
Naturally the amendments that I and my colleague Mr Wojciechowski submitted, which are aimed at a radical alteration of the CAP, were also rejected by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Doing away with the natural instability of the agricultural market is surely the most important task of any agricultural policy and as such it should also be reflected in this report.
Speaking of examining the common agricultural... (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for his outstanding work.
It also appears that the vote in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development came to 82%, even with the 17 major compromises it has created.
I should therefore like to say on this that we need not only a soft landing and a gentle transition towards 2015, but also sustainable solutions after 2015.
I therefore eagerly await the Commission's legislative proposal on 20 May, Commissioner, and I hope that we rediscover a great deal therein that the Goepel report now delivers, so that we do not have a repeat of this long discussion... (The President cut off the speaker) (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank Mr Goepel for his work, because it is important for the European Parliament to express its opinion on the general guidelines arising from the CAP 'Health Check'.
We in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have therefore rejected the Commission's proposal on degressivity in this form.
In paragraph 21 of the report, we recognise that decoupling direct payments has largely been successful, and we are firmly of the view that should be rolled out.
The outcome for the Czech Republic would be that by the year 2013 it would become one of the states with the largest share (part of the speech could not be heard) transferred within the framework of modulation from the first to the second pillar.
Neither this nor a compromise proposal are acceptable to the Czech Republic because they leave us open to discrimination, reducing unjustifiably the competitiveness of Czech farmers. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Goepel, in Berlin - nearly 10 years ago now - Chancellor Schmidt and the French President Jacques Chirac decided to grant a reprieve to farmers until 2013.
It is not Article 69 that troubles Irish farmers at the moment, but the WTO.
The cuts in tariffs range up to 70%.
There is a complete lack of information for this House on the impact of the latest text from the WTO, and I think we need and deserve to have that information.
A total or partial level of decoupling in certain sectors is vital for maintaining production, for example in the cotton sector.
Consequently, I think that the decoupling levels should be maintained as agreed in 2003 and in any event, if that is not possible, I think that Member States should be given some room for manoeuvre, as a voluntary model for each sector, on a case-by-case basis, could create the best circumstances for agricultural production.
Firstly, in my view, the most important aspect of agricultural policy is the common market for 500 million consumers.
What we also really need now is a bearing, a clear strategic direction, which is what we lack most at the moment. (GA) Mr President, this Report comes before us at a very important time for farmers in the EU.
Fourthly, unused agri-budget allocations on market management measures should be available for Article 69 aid to strengthen EU agriculture, particularly where production is marginal and to deal with situations, as in my constituency, where there are high numbers of farmers over 55 years of age with no prospect of alternative employment. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Goepel report offers a good compromise between the Commission's daring proposals and the concerns expressed by our farmers.
The revision and strengthening of Article 69 would also be a way of providing effective financial support for weakened areas, such as mountainous regions, for restructuring sectors in difficulty, such as stockbreeding and milk, or for managing risks.
Mrs Fischer Boel is a liberal-radical, Mr Goepel a Christian democrat-liberal, while I am a socialist-liberal, and we have the job of reforming the common agricultural policy fundamentally from 2014.
Thank you very much. (FR) Mr President, I would like to point out four dimensions in which the CAP should evolve.
It is important that there is a soft landing and I would support an annual increase in milk quotas up to 2015.
Finally, Commissioner, I would simply like to say that I think it would be positive to combine the idea of increasing quotas by 2% on a voluntary basis for 2008-2009, as proposed by the Jeggle and Goepel reports, with a non-linear increase for subsequent years, as requested in paragraph 84 of the Goepel report, in order to distribute the production quotas in a more balanced way, giving priority to Member States that have traditionally been in deficit in relation to their internal consumption. (NL) I should like to draw attention to an aspect of our agricultural policy that is often neglected: the interests of developing countries.
The crisis situation is being enhanced by the lack of cohesion and the discrimination against farmers in the new Member States.
The report fully reflects Parliament's particular interest in the issue of agricultural policy.
Consequently, I ask the European Commission to analyse the possibility of urgent establishment of an insurance fund or mechanism for multiple risks concerning EU farmers, financed from the EU budget as well as from the budgets of the Member States. (PL) Mr President, there are just two issues in this debate to which I should like to draw attention.
The future model for subsidies after 2013 should be based on simple principles similar to the SAPS.
By 2080, global food production would need to double!
But I have to say that never has it been more important to ensure a level playing field throughout the Member States, and we cannot allow different levels of percentages among the Member States.
Indeed, is Commissioner Fischer Boel confident that the line being taken by Commissioner Mandelson will not undermine the beef, dairy and other sectors and, in some ways at least, render our debate here this afternoon irrelevant?
President-in-Office. - (SL) I would like to thank you all for a very interesting debate.
I would like to say that in many issues in this debate Parliament and the Council expressed very similar opinions, which are too numerous to list here.
Finally, I would like to say that the Slovenian Presidency will strive for a speedy start to the debate on these proposals in order to finish most of the work during the Slovenian Presidency.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, with this discussion the sport of figure skating comes to mind.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 12 March 2008.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - Of course it is of the utmost importance to clearly stress in the framework of this report the necessity to maintain direct payments not only in the case of climate-related crisis or market failures but also to balance fairly the high European standards in terms of environmental, animal and consumer protection.
